Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1909.					No.4.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Passing Thoughts...............................A. W. C	25
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	26
Program: Daughters of the Revolution...........	27
Relief Society Stake Reports: Uintah.............	27
       Alpine......................................................	32
Tante Rora. A Sketch......................................	30
In Memoriam..................................................	30
Editorial:—Wilford Woodruff........................	28
	President William H. Taft.......................	28
	General Relief Society Conference........	28
	“John Stevens’ Courtship” .....................	29
	“Thrilling Incidents”...............................	29
	Editorial Notes........................................	29
	Henry Browne Blackwell.......................	32
Poetry:—The Best of All..Ellis R.Shipp, M. D.	25
	She Hath Gone..........Grace Ingles Frost	25
	Progress...................Emmeline B. Wells	27


THE BEST OF ALL.
Oh mothers remember when children are young,
While you list to the prattle of innocent tongue,
As you patiently answer the unending call,
That now is the happiest season of all.

Oh list to the voices so tender and sweet, 
Oh heed the soft patter of tottering feet,
Soothe gently the bruises that come from a fall,
And remember these days are the noblest of all.

When you hush them to sleep with your lullaby
	song,
Those moments of joy sweet mother prolong,
For time with its changes may come as a pall,
When they’ve slipped from your arms beyond
	your recall.

Then hold them secure in clinging embrace,
In the folds of your love to ever have place
Through sorrow, e’en sin, whatever befall
Encompassed by mother-love, constant through
	all.

For ah there will come, as moments flit on,
A time when the bliss of these days will be gone.
Fond memory only, all you can recall.
Of these hours that will e’er be the dearest of all.

Then breathe a soft prayer as you lull them to
	sleep,
That Angels their watch-care forever may keep,
He hears e’en the ravens—He heeds every call,
His love the sublimest divinest of all!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


SHE HATH GONE.
	(Lines dedicated to Sister Lydia Clayton
Thatcher, deceased, by Grace Ingles Frost.)
	She hath gone, and though we miss her.
		Still we know she liveth on,
	In that land beyond the shadows,
		Where we all shall meet ere long.

	She hath gone, hath left all sorrow,
		Laid her heavy burdens down;
	Gone to meet her loved ones waiting.
		She hath triumphed won her crown.

	“Dead!” we sang, but, oh, ’tis error,
		She hath just begun to live,
	Called unto a higher mission,
		There her loving help to give.
	Shall we grieve o’er her, our sister?
		Death for such can have no sting.
	“She is with the ransomed numbered,”
		Hark! the Hosts of Heaven sing.

	She hath gone, our well beloved,
		Gone to forge within the chain, 
	One more link more strong to bind us
		To that life which knows not pain.


Let her then enjoy her blessings,
	Ah! drive not her light by tears,
She hath passed from woe to gladness,
	Laid aside all earthly fears,

“Victory! victory!” she singeth;
	Over death and o’er the grave,
Like a faithful beacon shining,
	Lives she on, the strong and brave.


[Column 1]
		PASSING THOUGHTS.

	October! rich, rare, ripe October!
	Month of red and golden hues, 
	Of purple skies and sparkling dews,
	Of ripened fruit and garnered sheaves,
	Of golden corn and rustling leaves,
	Spring’s hope and summer’s labor stilled,
	The promise of all dreams fulfilled,

	Women’s Clubs,—Victor Hugo said that
the 19th century was the woman’s cen-
tury; and some one else, equally great,
though now I forget who, has said that the
20th century was the child’s century, while
the truth of this matter is that in the 19th
century the world woke up to the fact that
progress is due to intellectual and not phy-
sical forces, and when women decide to
take off their kitchen aprons, and no longer
be counted as a simple fireside ornament,
or household drudge, but sometimes to think
and work with man beyond the narrow lim-
its of “four walls,” then the rapid time
of true development began.
	Women, with their subtler, finer intui-
tions, receiving educational advantages have
become a power in the world, and instinct-
vely their interests turn towards the better
training and care of the child. Women of
leisure no longer sit making mittens and
pin cushions for foreign missions, but are
delving into the problems of their home
towns, sanitary, moral, educational, and all
conditions with an aim to wipe out the im-
pure and unclean, both in thought and
deed, and keep the standard of progress
on the rise, to bring about a transformation
not only for the benefit of the present gener-
ation, but for those yet to come. The true
worth of club women is not to gain political,
financial or socialdistinction, though all are
good in their place, but to educate women
to the necessities of their surroundings, and
unitedly to better and uplift them. Higher
and better ideals not only for the woman
and the child, but for all mankind is the re-
sult of women’s clubs. The Latter-day
Saint women have their own organizations,
which have been of great benefit to them,
and there is nothing that is good and true
and elevating which cannot be introduced
into them. Indeed, if we wish to advance
and keep up the pace of progress with the
women of advanced thought, we must study
and learn and take advantage of all oppor-
tunities. By liberal discussions in our
meetings of those things that pertain to our
own education and advancement, as well as
that of our children, mingled with the testi-
mony and faith of our religious sentiment,
we may become foremost among all
women.
	Fine Feathers.—That fine feather make
fine birds is an old maxim taken for granted
these ages past; but is it true? Do the

[Column 2]
clothes one wears prove one either the true
lady or true gentleman? Are clothes either
a guide or a help to the insight of character?
I do not think so.
	Not long since, while waiting for a parcel
in a large department store, a little lady,
very plainly, almost shabbily dressed was
almost rudely brushed aside by the gentle-
manly? floor walker as he rushed forward
to meet two young women who had just
entered the store. The girls were quite
beautifully dressed. As they passed, there
was a rustle of silk skirts, a strong odor of
perfume and a flutter of waving feathers.
They were most politely shown to the de-
partment they wished, and some one sum-
moned to wait on them. The little lady
noted the difference, how she had patiently
awaited her turn at the counter, made her
necessary purchases and without any form-
alties prepared to leave the store. It hap-
pened that the same car on which this little
woman returned home were these two young
women and this is part of the conver-
sation she overheard: “My, I’m tired, I
believe I’ve tried on every suit in town to-
day.” “Say, wasn’t some of ’em swell,
and ain’t it just fun to turn around in front
of them big looking glasses and see your-
self in such finery, I felt almost rich in that
fifty dollar cloak in——while to tell the
truth I didn’t have a cent but car fare.”
	Now the girls in the stores had fitted and
displayed their goods to these two women,
believing by their appearance that they
could and would purchase, and they had
been grossly imposed upon. The two had
only been idling away an afternoon around
town, trying on expensive gowns just for
amusement.
	A very lovely young woman, who is a
nurse by profession was sent to the case of a
young married woman who had no provision
in her home for her approaching sickness,
not any decent underwear or bed linen or
little wardrobe, but lounged around all day
in a soiled wrapper and slipshod slippers,
reading cheap novels, and every evening
dressed up in a lace trimmed gown and a
picture hat and sauntered out to meet her
husband. The nurse thought perhaps she
felt that while she, the nurse, was there she
might as well take things easy, but every-
thing indicated that these habits were the
usual thing and surely no true lady would
be so very negligent of herself.
	A lady just returned from a trip through
the northwest, made the remark how simply
and neatly the women she had met dressed,
especially on the streets, and then compared
them to our own girls at home, saying that
the evening previous she had been out to
the Lake, and a storm came up, and she
was quite sure she had seen hundreds of
dollars worth of millinery destroyed, not
to speak of the wet and bedraggled appear-
ance of the elegant summer gowns. Few
had wraps of any kind, and certainly their
health was menaced.
	Surely a well and elegantly dressed wom-
an is a beautiful sight but that does not
follow that one’s clothes are the standard of
one’s breeding. Good taste and simplicity
in dress; for street wear in particular, are


far more commendable than showy and ex-
pensive articles. Extreme in dress is not
good taste and an inordinate fondness for
dress often leads to paths of sorrow.
The true lady is always the lady whether
clothed in satin or home spun. Fine feath-
ers do not make fine birds.
						A.W. C


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	Before we realized any benefit from the
crops we had to live very close, sometimes
dig roots and pick greens to make a meal,
also shoes and clothing we could not get to
be comfortable. But one thing, the spirit
of mobocracy had lulled and we had peace
so far in Caldwell county. But the third
year after we had settled there and begun to
spread out and increase and prosper, the
enemy began to stir up the hearts of the peo-
ple. Mobs would come where there were
small settlements, and abuse the inhabitants
and turn their horses into the brethrens
cornfields, burn houses, and so on, until the
brethren had to stand in self defense; they
had been smitten on one cheek and turned
the other until they thought it was enough.
	The Haun’s Mill massacre, will ever be
remembered, and the stain will be handed
down to posterity of the notorious and
bloody butchery that befell the innocent
citizens by fiends in human form; there was
justice nowhere to be found. At Crooked
River there was a settlement, this was 20
miles from Far West. A band of mobo-
crats with a Methodist preacher at their
head (named Beauregard) for a captain,
rode into this settlement, took men prison-
ers without any cause whatever, insulted
women and destroyed property. Finally
the brethren dispatched a messenger in the
night to Far West for assistance. The al-
arm was given at midnight by the beating
of a drum on the public square. My hus-
band dressed and went over as quickly as
he could, to see what the matter was. They
made a call at once for volunteers to go to
the rescue of these brethren. He came
home and told me that he was going to
Crooked River that night with a company to
assist in dispersing the mob. I had a baby
two weeks old and ague and fever had set
in and no one to stay with me, but I told
him to go, I would do the best I could.
	The company started right away with this
short notice, for they had to stand as min-
ute men in these perilous times. They
rode on to the edge of the timber that skirt-
ed the river, when the guard of the mob fired
upon them and killed one young man by
the name of Obanion. Two or three of the
brothers took charge of him while the com-
pany went on down to disperse the camp of
mobocrats. The consequence was a battle.
The enemy was routed out, but not without
the shedding of blood. Captain D. W. Pot-
ter was wounded and died the next day,
Gideon Carter killed outright, and others
of the brethren wounded, but in the conflict
the enemy took to flight, and of course left
their company outfit. Some left their har-
ness, while others cut their horses loose and
rode them away; and in their flight some
left their guns, and as is always customary
in battle, the spoils of the defeated party
are taken by the victors, and in this case I
would ask who are the aggressors, and who
fired the first shot? Our brethren merely
went to this place to try and protect their

[Column 2]
neighbors from the ravages of this mob and
to make peace, if possible. Would or could
they see men shot down and not raise a
hand in defense of their fellowmen? Verily
the brethren were justified in what they did
according to both the law of God and the
law of the land. My husband had his sword
torn from him in the conflict, and in the
spoil he took a rifle. Now I suppose this
would be called stealing by some of the
enemy. Some of the most abominable
falsehoods have been in circulation about
the Mormons; such as Mr. Cullom alluded to
in his notorious speech.
	Well to return to my narrative. My hus-
band came home next day. I had not been
out of bed, for I was too sick; my little boy
Eli, five years old, to wait on me was all
the help I had. I saw at a glance there
had been trouble, and he related to me
what had happened and of the brethren be-
ing killed. It overcame me; and I was
sicker than ever.
	The news of the battle spread like wild-
fire through the state. This was sufficlent
to arouse the whole state to come out
against a few with their exterminating
orders, because for once our people stood in
self-defence determined to protect their
brethren from the outrages of these hostile
people, for they were nothing else, but as I
said the whole state was now aroused and
in arms to come against us: their leader,
General Clark, marched his hosts of thous-
ands up to within a mile and a half of Far
West and camped. Clark, with some of his
officers, came into Far West and demanded
our Prophet and brother Hyrum and several
others of the brethren and took them as
prisoners down to their camp, and put a
guard around them. Previous to their being
taken into the camp of the enemy Brother
Joseph had called the brethren together
and talked to them and told them to be val-
ant and firm and trust in God, he said, “I
never realized the enemy so near our doors,
but brethren be stout-hearted,” and said
many more things to nerve up and strength-
en them in their hour of peril, for it seemed
as though we were to be swallowed up by
this mighty host.
	As I said, they put a strong guard around
these brethren held a court martial and sen-
tenced them to be shot next morning. I was
still sick in bed, but that night I could hear
their martial band playing, and I can never
forget the sound, for it seemed that all the
infuriated demons of the lower regions felt
to triumph because they expected to see
these pure and noble men shot down. When
morning came their hopes were blasted.
True, as the song says, “God moves in a mys-
terious way,” and so on. All at once a spir-
it more noble than the rest (Colonel Doni-
phan) ordered the men under his command
into line and to march. Said he “I will
have nothing to do with such cold-blooded
murder.”  This caused a division, and an
insurrection in their camp, so their lives were
spared this time, and they were brought up
into the city and permitted to take leave of
their families and aged father and mother
with their little ones clinging to them and
crying. This scene of parting was enough
to melt the heart of stone.
	My husband did not witness this, for the
time had come that he had to take care of
himself for they were hunting for all those
that had been in the Crooked River battle.
These men were hurled off to prison to suffer
from hunger, thirst and cold during the win-
ter months. After they had secured these
prisoners, the General came into the public

[Column 3]
square and required the brethren to sign
over their property to defray the expenses of
the war, and made his speech, also gave his
order of extermination. The brethren had
to stake their arms. My husband had given
the gun he had taken among the spoils to
another previous, so it was among the rest,
his own he had taken apart, thrown the bar-
rel on the house, and the rest into the cellar,
so they did not get it.
	Well, it is told in Church history all these
events, and Clark’s speech concerning our
leaders and their fate and ours. I merely
bear my testimony of the facts because they
came under my observation. My house was
near the public square. Captain Beauregard
with his man were camped near my house.
They came to my house to search for arms
and for my husband, and they were close
upon him, but in God’s providence he
evaded them, and they never found him.
Although he could not remain around home,
yet he was in the city. They had a double
guard around my house. Myself, my oldest
boy, five years old then. Eli Tracy, now re-
siding in Huntsville, Utah, another boy
three years, and my baby, now three weeks
old, in my arms in bed, thus was I in prison
in my own house, and sick at that, with
nothing to nourish and strengthen me,
and only my little boy to give me
a drink of water. Finally Brother Wood
came with his wagon and told me
he would take me to his house, which he
did that day. I shook two hours with the
ague, and it was the last chill I had. I was
shaking when I was put into the wagon, as
though every bone in my body would drop
to pieces. So the guard had nothing bnt
the vacated house to guard.
	Now the crisis had come, we had got to
leave the state and not attempt to put in
another crop, if we did the citizens would be
upon us again. This, the General said, was
a decisionary power vested in him, to let us
stay until spring, so when he had driven the
hoop as tight as he could he told his armies
to go to their homes and hold themselves in
readiness in case they were called for again.
It was in vain to importune for redress,
there was no attention given to our entreat-
es. This crusade was suffered to go on
against an innocent people and no notice
was taken of it, no alternative but to sacri-
fice our homes and lands that were bought
and honestly paid for. And why this out-
burst of persecution? For the same reason
that in every age of the world when God had
a people on the earth they were persecuted,
imprisoned and put to death in like manner
for their religion; and because they wor-
shiped the true and living God and obeyed His
commandments, and not because they had
broken any law, because in the strictest
sense of the word they were a law-abiding
community, and no one honored and re-
vered the laws of the land more than the
Latter-day Saints, and were taught to do so,
and I know whereof I speak; and it is true,
and I feel constrained to write as I do, for
perhaps to some one who does not know
what to believe, there has been and is still so
much falsehood afloat about this people. I
say here is my testimony that there is not a
people on the face of the earth that is as
careful to obey and uphold law and good
order as the Latter-day Saints. I have lived
in the world and traveled much, have been
identified with this Church for fifty years,
and I speak according to knowledge. Well
it is all right, we are to be a tried people,
and to be like gold, seven times tried.
		(TO BE CONTINUED.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS.
When the foundations of the earth were laid,
	And darkness hover’d o’er the space,
This good “world beautiful” so perfect made,
	And sun and stars had found their place,
Then darkness fled before the coming day—
	When God proclaimed “Let there be light!”
For His Omnipotence, and pow’r held sway
	And he divided day and night.
Fair morning in her maiden beauty rose
	All blushes like a virgin bride;
The world awaken’d from the night’s repose
	By her sweet presence beautified.
’Twas then the morning stars together sung,
	And angels minister’d on earth;
All nature’s voices in glad chorus rung,
	Rejoicing in the world’s new birth—
For man was born’ and unto him was given
	Dominion over living things,
And woman, fresh from out the courts of heav’n
	A benediction with her brings—
The dawn of progress in a new-born race,
	The growth of beings multiplied;
And down the ages filling time and place,
	True knowledge life has glorified.

There have been wonders in the long ago,
	Empires have flourish’d in their way,
Their thrones and kingdoms, their great works
		laid low,
	Their progress crush’d and pass’d away.
We boast of great achievements in our time,
	Of ingenuity and wondrous skill
Talk of the sciences in flights sublime,
	Controling forces at their will.
Men have won laurels in the halls of fame,
	Have solv’d great problems, to be sure,
But can they justly lasting merit claim
	For progress made that will endure?
And who can say what progress most has done
	To help mankind to higher things?
What vict’ry have we gained, what triumph won,
	With all that art and science brings?
Wise men of old, e’en prophets in their time
	Have dealt with life’s great mysteries;
And poets sung in rhythmic strains sublime
	Through the long line of centuries.

In the Meridian of time the Savior came,
	“The Golden Rule” to man He taught;
And by His teaching, and thro’ Jesus name,
	The world received new light, new thought,
He who has given to the world His best,
	Who has some blessed message brought,
And ministers to human soul’s distress’d
	Has far the greater progress wrought
We hail the day, when knowledge shall increase,
	And cover earth from sea to sea;
When all mankind shall dwell in perfect peace,
	And light and truth obtaln the victory.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			PROGRAM.
	Daughters of the Revolution.
			SEPTEMBER.
	Declaration of Independence, Causes and
effect on the world—Clarissa S. Williams (20
minutes.)
	Bills of Exchange—Their origin and
force, Phebe Y. Beatie. (20 minutes.)
	Oration by James Otis—Ella W. Hyde.

			OCTOBER.
	Read Constitution of the United States,
and discussion of same, led by Emmeline
B. Wells. (20 minutes.)
	Read the By Laws. Discussion on same
led by Julia A. F. Lund. (15 minutes).
	Oration by Patrick Henry—Clarissa Y.
Spencer.
	The First National Bank under President
George Washington—Phebe Y. Beatie. (15
minutes.)
	Questions of Finance. Bona-fide holders
—Judge Lewis.

			NOVEMBER.
	Treaty 1795 with Spain which settled the
boundary line between the U. S. and Louis-
ana—Diana F. Rich. (15 minutes.)
	How the right of Navigation of the Miss-

[Column 2]
issippi was secured and its importance, in
the world’s commerce—Lucy W. Smith. (15
minutes.)
	Oration by Daniel Webster to be read by
Emily C. Willey.
	U. S. Currency. (10 minutes.)

			JANUARY, 1910.
	International affairs during Adams’ ad-
ministration 1797-1801—Mary E. R. Web-
ber. (15 minutes.)
	The Louisiana Purchase (Jefferson’s ad-
ministration)—Elizabeth R. Wright. (10
miuutes.)
	Lewis & Clark Expedition—Ella W.
Hyde. (10 minutes.)
	Bills of Lading and Warehouse Receipts
—Myra Y. Rossiter. (10 minutes.)
	The Duel and Debts of Honor—Julia
A. F. Lund. (10 minutes.)

			FEBRUARY.
	Negotiations with Mexico during Madi-
son’s Administration. (15 minutes.)
	The Monroe Doctiine, its Application and
Effect—Isabel M. Sears. (20 minutes.)
	Property Rights of Women—Mabel S.
Cole, (15 minutes.)
	Oration by Susan B. Anthony—Maria Y.
Dougall.

				MARCH.
	The Negotiable Instrument—Alice Mer-
rill Horne. (20 minutes.)
	The Spirit of Invention—Julia P. M.
Farnsworth. (20 minutes.)
	Group of Henry W. Longfellow’s Poems
—Rachel Campbell.
	The Aeroplane—Mary E. R. Webber. (20
minutes.)
				APRIL.
	Lincoln, the Ideal Type of American
manhood, and his Influence on the Policy
and Destiny of our Nation—Carol Y. Can-
non. (25 minutes.)
	The Evolution of Medicine and Surgery—
Elizabeth R. Wright. (25 minutes.)
Selections from William J. Byran—Diana
F. Rich.

				MAY.
	Equal Suffrage—Emmeline B. Wells. (20
minutes.)
	The Arctic Explorers—Clarissa Y. Spen-
cer. (20 minutes.)
	Policy of the Roosevelt Administration—
Emily C. Willey. (20 minutes.)
	Selections from Holmes, Whittier and Bry-
ant led by Sarah F. Smith.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. M
		UINTAH STAKE.
		Synopsis of Minutes. 
	The 49th conference of the Relief Society
of Uintah Stake was held in the Vernal
ward house Aug. 20, 1909, commencing at
10 a. m., President Nancy A. Colton presid-
ing.
	Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
mountain home so dear,” and prayer and
other usual opening exercises an address of
welcome and a report of the stake was given
by President Nancy A. Colton. The wards
or part of the wards had not been doing
much of late on account of the quarantine
for small pox. Spoke of the grain that had
been loaned out and the good it had done.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett further reported
the question of the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation for
it surely relieved the suffering of many peo-
ple, and they would receive it all back.

[Column 2]
	Recitation by Miss Clara Spears, entitled
“In the King’s Palace.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne spoke of the
scenery along the road, and congratulated
the people in their labors. Also spoke of
the mother’s work in the Relief Society,
advised the sisters to make their own plans
to work to. Explained the duties of the
teachers, said it is not only their duty to
look after the sick physically, but to build
them up spiritually. Thought mothers
should make heaven at home whether rich or
poor, whether living in a log house or a man-
sion. She felt to encourage the sisters to
work with their hands and brains together.
	Sister Vilate Bennion, from Salt Lake
City, was pleased to meet with the sisters,
she explained the mother’s work, we should
meet and get each other’s views and ideas,
referred to a speech that Elder Morris had
made in a Relief Society meeting that if they
can interest the mothers, they can win
the children. We should give our lectures
our greatest study, and ask all the questions
we can find on the subject.
	President Nancy A. Colton thought we
had heard a great deal of the Gospel; spoke
of mothers trying to control themselves, be-
fore they try to control their children.
Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. with sing-
ing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, choir and congregation
sang “Hail to the brightness.” Prayer and
singing.
	Sister Mary A. Stringham gave an outline
of the work the Relief Society are doing,
Spoke of mothers not neglecting their fam-
lies, but watching over and taking care of
them.
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported the Vernal
Relief Society in good condition.
	Sister Vilate Bennion spoke of the great
work we can do with the children if we only
persevere.
	Song by group of little girls led by Ethel-
wynne Collett, accompanied by Retta Bell.
	Sister Alice M. Horne had been delighted
with the singing, for people who love to sing,
love to work, and work is what we want. Spoke
of the power and ability each one is blessed
with, and thought we should try to develop
the ability in our midst, for that is what our
Prophet Joseph Smith did. We should
look into our families and see what gift our
children are blessed with and try and culti-
vate that gift. Said Aunt Bathsheba
Smith sent her greetings and best wishes.
She has confidence in the stake officers, she
then spoke on mothers work and encour-
aged the young women to join the Relief
Society.
	Elder Don B. Colton, first counselor to
the president of the stake, made an excuse
for President William H. Smart not being
at conference, said he is in the more scatter-
ed part of the stake, thinking that this part
is more able to take care of itself. “I know
that I voice his sentiments when I say we
feel the good the Relief Society does in the
community.” Referred to the suffering that
had been on the reservation and the help
that the Relief Society of this valley gave
them. Alluded to the grain that had been
loaned to the people on the reservation and
the good it had done, he also advised the
sisters to gather grain in the time and season.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to give
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks for their
visit, thanked all who had helped in making
this conference a success.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Conference adjourned for three
months.	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1909.


PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF.
	The history of President Woodruff has
been published very recently by the Deseret
News. and the work of preparing this book
for publication has been very creditably
done by Matthias F. Cowley—the title page
reads “Wilford Woodruff, Fourth President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, History of his Life and Labors as re-
corded in his daily Journal.
	Then appears the suitable quotation from
the New Testament:
	“To him that overcometh will I grant to
sit with me on my throne, even as I also
overcame and am set down with my Father
in his throne, Rev. 3:21,
	This appears a very appropriate verse for
such a man as President Woodruff. The
signature under his picture on the first page
of the volume, is significant of the character
of the man himself, straightforward, upright,
one could never believe him vacillating, or
in any way wavering from what he knew to
be right.
	The dedication reads:
	“To his numerous and ever increasing
family. And to all who love the name and
memory of President Wilford Woodruff,
this work is respectfully dedicated.”
	The book is handsomely bound and only
the name and Coat of Arms of the Wood-
ruff family appear upon the cover.
	There are 57 chapters in the book and 702
pages. The principal subjects are named
in the paragraphs of contents, so that it will
be easy to refer to certain remarkable
events in the life of this illustrious Elder,
Apostle, Historian, and President of the
Church. 
	The Latter-day Saints will welcome with
joy and laudable pride the publication of the
life and labors of this great and good man,
so dearly beloved by the people.
	Aside from that it will be very valuable to
all, on account of its containing so much
historic information of Church matters,
and of individuals from the days of Kirtland
to the time of his death.
	President Woodruff was born March 1st,
1807, in Farmington, Hartford Co., Conn.,
and was a bonafide Yankee, though of Eng-
lish extraction. President Woodruff says
that “according to the ancient Book of Her-
aldry, one of his ancestors was Lord Mayor
of London in 1579.”
	Brother Woodruff possessed many estim-
able qualities and characteristics, but one of
the crowning virtues was his sincere and
genuine humility, which was apparent in


all he did and said, a plain man, unosta-
tious, and yet the Lord exalted him to the
highest position in the Church, at a time in
its history when there was need of a man
who could be trusted to carry out the will
of the Lord, even if it were against his own
feelings and interests.
	The Lord made manifest His confidence
in this unassuming man and he delivered
the divine message to the people. He was
without guile—upright, honest and faithful
in all places and under all circumstances.
The book will be a veritable treasure-trove in
every household; it contains such practical
lessons as the children need, and moral and
religious examples all the Saints should fol-
low, It may be truthfully said of him, he
lived “the simple life.”


PRESIDENT WILLIAM H. TAFT.
	The visit to Utah of His Excellency the
Chief Executive of this nation, was an event
of considerable importance, and the fact of
his remaining three days in this state is cer-
tainly a favorable compliment to the people.
We hope and trust he will realize how deep-
ly the people of the state appreciate the
honor, and will better understand hereafter
the loyalty and patriotism of the pioneers
who settled the American Desert and made
it habitable for others to come, as well as
very desirable. President Taft’s address in
the Tabernacle was very pleasing and we
think profitable to the large congregation,
and his affable and unassuming manner
won all hearts; his text was well chosen,
and he handled the subject of his sermon
diplomatically, proving himself a very good
preacher of righteousness, if not accustomed to
the pulpit. Altogether the visit was a success
even if it was in a way fatiguing to go here
and there and see so much as he is seeing and
doing from day to day. The people who
saw the President here have had a most
favorable impression of his gracious and
dignified appearance, and we feel sure
Utah as a state appreciates the honor of the
visit and the children who saw him will
never forget while they live, for he is a man
of distinguished bearing, aside from his ex-
alted position.
	Perhaps the most unique feature of all
that was done for his entertainment here,
was the “Living Flag.” The sight of those
20,000 children waving the Flag of the Na-
tion and singing “The Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” brought tears to President Taft’s eyes,
and therefore it is apparent he is somewhat
emotional. The saying, “The bravest are
the tenderest,” is true today as it al-
ways has been.
	Much has been said concerning the Presi-
dent’s speeches and his sermon and his
journeyings through this mountain country
by the newspapers East and West, but it
only enhances the value of his visit to us,
who know the good that is always accom-
plished when honorable and just men see
things for themselves free from prejudice or
bias.
	We are, as a people, grateful and appre-
ciative of kindness shown, and have on
other occasions sought to do honor when
visits have been made by men in high posi-
tions, Presidents, Judges and members of
Congress, and the greatest men who have hon-
ored Utah by their presence have been favor-
ably impressed, and many have acknowl-
edged the courtesies extended to them.
	The Latter-day Saints have ever been hos-
pitable and kindly to the stranger within
their gates, and many great men and wom-


en of the world have been entertained in
“Mormon” homes.
	We sincerely hope and pray that Presi-
dent Taft may enjoy his extended tour
through the West and South, and return to
the White House in excellent health and
spirits to carry forward the labor and
responsibility incumbent upon the Chief
Executive of this great nation—the United
States of dear America.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Relief Society Conference was
a very interesting one, and the attendance
from outside stakes was quite numerous,
the program as published previously was
carried out in nearly every particular. Spec-
ial music was one of the enjoyable features.
The selections rendered on Tuesday after-
noon, Oct. 5, by Prof. J. J. McClellan on
the piano, and Prof. W. E. Weihe on the
violin, were a very great pleasure to all who
had the opportunity to hear the soul-
thrilling strains.
	The instructions by the venerable
president, Batesheba W. Smith, touched
every heart and her presence was in itself
most gratifying to all who had the pleasure
of seeing her once more in her accustomed
place upon the platform; her inspiring words
fell upon the ears of the congregation, re-
freshing all hearts. She welcomed the sis-
ters and blessed them in her peculiar grac-
ious way, speaking of her great love for
those engaged in the work, and entreated
them to keep the faith and teach it to their
children.
	The General Secretary, Emmeline B.
Wells, gave the report of the year’s work
and the principal events that had transpired,
mentioning the sisters who had passed away
during the current year—Counselor Annie
Taylor Hyde, and member of the Board of
Directors, Rebecca E. Little; also Sophia
Taylor Nuttall and Harriet Ann Taylor Badg-
er who had been missionaries for the Gen-
eral Society, and Laura H. Miner, a mem-
ber of the Board of directors when this Soci-
ety was incorporated in Oct. 1892, and had
served until after her removal to Logan.
Other important events were briefly men-
tioned.
	The General Treasurer, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, read the treasurer’s report of the
General Society receipts and disbursements
for the year, also the report of the building
fund and made special explanations in re-
gard to these very important matters; advised
the officers of the several stakes of Zion to
manage money matters systematically and
make it a point to be prompt and specific
in regard to this special department of Re-
lief Society business.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward sang most
exquisitely a solo entitled, “O Loving
Father,” Delriego.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Chairman of Nurse
Work, gave some instructions upon taking
care of the human body and knowing con
cerning it. and how essential to understand
more, especially for mothers, and our young
women, and urged the sisters in all the so-
cieties of Zion to take this matter in hand,
and she hoped that instead of thirty girls or
women in the nurse class, we should have
forty or more, referred to noble mothers as
examples, those who had been students of
such subjects as hygiene and health. Sis-
ter Beatie gave some quotations from Her-
bert Spencer and Mary Wood Allen, and re-
ferred to some special cases that had come
under her own observation.


[Column 1]
	Sister Minnie Horne James had the sub-
ject Study Lessons, which she spoke of as
an advance step in the right direction;
thought we had neglected the mental part in
the past, we had done much temporal work
to the neglect of the mind. We are anx-
ious to have things comfortable around us,
but if we would give more attention to gain-
ing knowledge we would be better qualified
to comprehend our true position. Some-
times we take up a book and read a page
and then turn back to see what we have
been reading before. Spoke of those who
thought they were too old to learn; referred
to a woman she knew who even learned to
read after she was sixty years old. Sister
James urged the sisters to study and im-
prove their minds, it would make them
more useful in any position in life, there is
everywhere opportunity to read and study.
	A sister from Alpine Stake spoke of one
ward in that Stake where questions were
written and handed to the sisters to be
answered. She knew of many instances
where women in years had studied and ac-
quired learning and knowledge; the sugges-
tion of handing questions in at meeting
seemed to be a good one to adopt whenever
apropriate.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry gave a
very instructive talk on the mother and the
child; referred to the time long ago of a
woman famous in the past who was gentle,
loving and tender, said we know of her beau-
tiful character and purity, we read in the
Greek mythology of Pandora, the first
woman. One day she lifted the lid of a
box, and three boxes contained all the vices;
she lifted the second time and Hope came
out of the box. Hope brings faith, and
what would we live for if it were not for
faith? She dwelt eloquently upon this sub-
ject. Napoleon said to Madame de Stael,
“All we need to make France the glory of
the world, is to have good women.” The
speaker dwelt upon this subject with much
pathos and enthusiasm, and proved how
much love and tenderness in the home
meant to all the household; the points taken
by the speaker were happily illustrated and
reference was made to the teachers who visit
the sick; love, sympathy and faith are nec-
essary to all, and music on the great harp of
life is what we all need and can cultivate to
make home and happiness.
	The officers and members of the Board
of Directors of the Society were then pre-
sented by Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, and
also the several Committees, names, etc.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, General President.
	Ida S. Dusenberry, Counselor.
	Emmeline B. Wells, General Secretary.
	Clarissa S. Williams, General Treasurer.
	Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jenne Cannon,
Romania B. Penrose, Susan Grant, Emma S.
Woodruff; Julina L. Smith, Emily S. Rich-
ards, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phebe Y.
Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas, Alice Merrril
Horne, Annie Wells Cannon, Priscilla P. Jen-
nings, Elizabeth S. Wilcox. Harriet B.
Harker, Minnie H. James, Rebecca N. Nib-
ley, Amy B. Lyman, Annie K. Hardy.
	Lizzie T. Edward, Musical Director.
	Edna H. Coray, Organist.
	Emma A. Empey, Superintendent Grad-
uated Relief Society Nurses.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor Relief
Society School of Nurses.
	Chairman Standing Committees:
	Emmeline B. Wells, Building Committee.
	Phebe Y. Beatie, Relief Society School of
Nurses.

[Column 2]
	Clarissa S. Williams, Building Furnish-
ing Committee.
	Carrie S. Thomas, Press Committee.
	Julina L. Smith, Hospital Committee.
	Singing “Love at Home.” Benediction,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
	Adjourned to Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a. m.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“JOHN STEVEN’S COURTSHIP.”
	A new book has recently been issued from
the Deseret News office entitled “John
Steven’s Courtship.” The author is the ver-
satile and prolific writer and journalist,
Susa Young Gates, well and favorably known
both in the United States and Europe. Mrs.
Gates is a daughter of Brigham Young, and
possesses much of his marvelous ability.
	The book is unique in many respects; it
deals with facts and fiction ingeniously con-
nected, and cannot fail to deeply interest
its readers. Some names that the book
contains are as familiar to the people of
Utah as household words, and the Echo
Canyon war, of which it is really a story, is
one of the most historic events in “Mormon”
history, and marks an epoch in Utah that
is strongly emphasized because of its pathetic
and thrilling incidents and its triumphant
outcome. If it were only for the fact of its
dealing with this subject, the book should
recommend itself wherever it might be cir-
culated, certainly our own young people will
be more or less fascinated with a story that
deals principally with their own mountain
homes, and the stirring events of those
troublous times, never to be erased from
the memory of even the little children who
recall the incidents of what was significantly
spoken of then as “The Move South.”
	If the Mormon women who were living at
that time were to give personal experiences
of what transpired during that eventful year
from July, 1857 to the fall of 1858, it would
make a most romantic story without the
embellishment of fiction. There is no lack
of material for writing interesting reminis-
cences, and we assuredly are “a peculiar
people” with a wonderful history.
	“John Steven’s Courtship” ought to sell
well outside of Utah, and now that Salt Lake
City has become so famous that many thous-
ands of tourists visit it every year, Mormon
literature may perhaps become popular.
	Therefore, we are safe in saying this book
will have a ready sale, the simple title of
“Courtship” bespeaks its popularity to young
folks, and “Echo Canyon war” will appeal to
most people, and is a new subject for a story,
although given second place as a sub-
title.


“THRILLING INCIDENTS.”

	A book has been issued during the pres-
ent year by Solomon F. Kimball containing
incidents and experiences in his own life,
that are very extraordinary, and to those
who are interested in spiritual matters of
prophecy, visions and manifestations, this
book will appeal with very great interest.
It is a wonderful work, and vividly portrays
the depth of religious feeling with which the
author has been inspired, not only while 
writing the book, but in passing through
the peculiar circumstances so feelingly given
in its pages.
	Brother Solomon Farnham Kimball is
the son of Heber C. and Vilate Murray Kim-
ball, both well known as early members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day


Saints, and greatly beloved by all our peo-
ple while living, and the memory of their
faith and integrity will stand forever, as a
waymark to the Latter-day Saints.
	Solomon Kimball, the author, has many
of the sterling and noble qualities of his par-
ents, and the book has been written out of
the fulness of his own heart with a genuine
desire to do good to those who are wayward
and “sometime disobedient,” that they may
walk in the paths of truth and righteous-
ness and not yield to temptation. It is, as
its title indicates, thrilling in the extreme.
The book is of a character to give the reader
much food for thought. One is reminded
of the startling sermons of Heber C. Kim-
ball and also of the conversion of the Apos-
tle Paul. We are told the book is having a
ready sale, and we hope and trust it may
do much good among the young people.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are some important notes left over
that will appear in the next issue of the
paper, and an excellent article by Sister
Lydia D. Alder.
	The Regent of the Utah Society Daugh-
ters of the Revolution has received word
from the President General of the D. R.
Society of the U. S., Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, that she will visit the Utah State
Society in her Western tour; and it is ex-
pected she will arrive in this city, Thursday,
November 12, and remain until Sunday
afternoon, November 15. Suitable arrange-
ments are being made by the Regent and
Committees of members appointed by her,
and a good time is anticipated.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held the
first meeting after the summer vacation,
Sept. 16, 1909, at the home of the new
Regent, Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne. The oc-
casion was a very enjoyable one, the artistic
home being decorated in a pleasing style in
the Society colors. The Regent gave her
inaugural address to the daughters in a most
gracious manner, and cordially welcoming
them to her home. Other numbers of the
program was rendered, and the guests pro-
ceeded to the dining room where the table
had been laid in the prettiest way, and the
menu served was of the finest and daintiest
possible to obtain, fish baked in sea shells,
and other delicacies of the season, a large
bowl or vase filled with the choicest flowers
in the Society colors and covered with baby
wreath formed the center piece, with finest
linen, china, and cutglass, the table was a
delightful picture, and the ladies were in
the happiest mood imaginable. The con-
versation corresponded to the surroundings,
and the appetizing luncheon was thorough-
ly enjoyed. A very excellent and auspic-
ous beginning to open the 12th year of
work of the Utah State Society.
	Saturday, Oct. 16, 1909, the Daughters
of the Revolution held the second meeting
of the season in the handsome parlors of the
new and elegant residence of Dr. and Mrs.
Elias Wright. The rooms were beautifully
decorated, and the Regent, Mrs. Alice M.
Horne, opened the meeting promptly and
dispatched such business as required im-
mediate attention. The regular program
consisted of the reading of the Constitution
of the United States by Mrs. E. B. Wells
with a view to prepare for discussion. This
was followed by Judge T. D. Lewis on Fin-
ance, etc., who spoke with painstaking in-


terest, explaining questions relating thereto
explicitly, and explained the term Bona-
fide holders of promissory notes in detail. A
rising vote of thanks was given Judge
Thomas D. Lewis for his interesting ad-
dress, and a delicious luncheon was served
to the company, including the Judge, after
which the session resumed the transaction
of important business, pertaining to the an-
ticipated visit in November of the President
General of the Society, Mrs. Adeline Frances
Fitz, of Wakefield Mass. Mrs. E. B. Wells,
member of the Committee of the General
Society on Patriotic work presented the re-
quest from the Chairman of that Commit-
tee in reference to raising means to build a
suitable memorial to the sailors of the Revo-
lution at Annapolis, Maryland, a work
never yet undertaken. Mrs. Wells stated
that the President General of the society had
corresponded with the Department of the U.
S. Navy of the United States and had re-
ceived favorable replies in the matter. The
ladies responded graciously, although
the Regent felt they should be informed as
to what the memorial would be. Mrs.
Wells was not able to furnish that informa-
tion, as the whole matter is still in embryo.
Meeting adjourned after several committees
had been appointed to arrange for suitable
entertainment for the President General’s
sojourn in the city.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	A brief sketch of the life of Sister Maren Peder-
sen.
	Sister Pedersen was born at Stroe, Sjolland,
Denmark, April 29, 1823 Her parents and her
children were greatly honored and respected
among their associates. They were prosperous
farmers and mechanics, and were possessed of
considerable musical ability. She and her hus-
band, Hans Pedersen, embraced the Gospel in
1862, emigrated to Zion in 1866, came to East
Mill Creek, but moved on the Weber in Summit
county, then removed to Wilford Ward, in the
Granite Stake, where they finally made their
home.
	Hans Pedersen died twenty years ago last
June.
	Sister Pedersen was the mother of ten children,
six of whom preceded her to the other side.
	She identified herself with the Relief Society in
1870, and later became a teacher in that organiza-
tion. She was a conscientious and faithful wotk-
er, kind to the poor and afflicted, even the ani-
mals shared her love and kindness. Her name is
found on the tithing, Relief Society and grain as-
sociation records; and wherever and whenever a
call was made upon her she always responded
cheerfully and liberally.
	She was very hospitable, none went from her
door hungry, and many she had clothed, like
“Dorcas of old.”
	She would card and spin and knit mittens and
stockings for many little cold hands and feet,
	She would rather deny herself than see others
suffer or go without help. She truly honored her
father and mother, for she lived her religion
faithfully; she also worked in the Salt Lake and
Logan Temples for her departed kindred as far as
she could secure their genealogy.
	She was the only member of her father’s house-
hold who embraced the Gospel, and because of
her faithfulness lived to a good, old age. She
enjoyed the love and tender care of her children
and grandchildren until the close of her eventful
life.
	Sister Pedersen died June 3, 1909, and leaves
one son, three daughters, twenty-seven grand-
children, twenty-three great-grandchildren and a
host of true friends, to mourn her departure. She
died as she lived in full faith of the Gospel, and a
hope of a glorious resurrection, as well as an
eternal union with her loved ones.
					ANSINE M. PETERSON,
In behalf of the Relief Society of the Wilford
Ward in the Granite Stake.


[Column 1]	
			TANTE RORA.
			A SKETCH.
	Were you ever in Berne—that quaintest
of all cities, with its dark arcades, its queer
clock of bears, representing the apostles, its
gates and towers, its bear pits? To step over
from sunny gay Paris into this queer little
place is like dropping back from the twen-
tieth century into the middle ages; and in
order to realize that one really is living in
modern times it becomes necessary to strang-
ers and students resident there, to slip away
occasionally to Paris or Berlin or some other
place with street cars and electric lights.
Yet if you really want to study life in human
pictures, the charm and quiet of this old-
fashioned place will draw you back and hold
you.
	Nowhere else in Switzerland are the Alps
more lovely—where else does the after glow
ever seem so bright? Long after the even-
ing shadows have fallen upon the valleys
and the lingering rays of the evening sun
have faded from the snowy peaks them-
selves, the mountains begin to glow from
their bases upwards as if illumined by a
bright internal fire. And then that beautiful
green river, the Aare, a hundred feet below
circling serpent-like around the city with its
fine historic bridges—all these form a pict-
ure not repeated on the map of Europe.
	Elsie Frost, a bright American girl from
the Rocky Mountain Region, was one who
experienced all these sensations. She had
been studying art in Paris, and off for a
sketching tour had suddenly come upon this
quaintest of cities and she felt as though she
had fallen into another world. With the
true instinct of the artist, however, she soon
found a wide field for her work and one of
her chief amusements was to study the peo-
ple of the “Matte.” These were those who
earned their two francs a day in the cotton
mills or soap factories or some such place.
On Mondays and Wednesdays the Hausfrau
does her washing—not hers alone but other
people’s too; and this was one of the most
interesting days of all to the young student.
None of your electrical motors nor modern
washing machines here—not even the old-
fashioned tub and washboard; but the “gute
Frau” carries her huge basket down to the
public street fountains, and oh, what gossip
and sociability is indulged in, and what a
picture! Four or five women glibly narrat-
ing the news of their neighbors in the
“Matte,’ while they soap and toss the soiled
garments back and forth on the stones of
the fountain. Elsie used often to wonder
how in the world the clothes ever became
clean without rubbing; but they did, in a
fashion at any rate; the constant flowing
water made fine cleansing.
	One dear old lady, Tante Rora they called
her, always had her clothes clean any way
and she was the one Elsie cared most about,
for she did Elsie’s washing.
	Tante Rora was very tall and not so dark
as most of the Bernese women; and it never
seemed quite natural to see her washing,
she had such dignity and calm demeanor.
When Tante joined in the gossip it was
usually to say some kind word in defense of
the one whose character was being assailed,
and she always seemed to Elsie something
better than her surroundings. Her language,
too, was not the harsh patois of the Ober-
land but something Elsie could better under-
stand, more like the German she was trying
to master under her teacher.
	The singing and babble of the women,
the splash and swish of the clothing on the

[Column 2]
wet stones, the romping and tossing of the
children among the baskets all had a charm
in keeping with the odd quaint city.
	One day Elsie succeeded in ingratiating
herself in Tante Rora’s good favor to the ex-
tent of getting invited to her home in the
Matte. This she had long wanted. Her
curiosity knew no bounds and she had many
times wished she could get inside these
homes, as she had wandered a good deal
through the dark passages, down the stone
steps and along by the river studying the
queer habitations. But she never seemed
to be able to get very close to the people.
Why should these humble folk think a
strange young girl, smart in her dainty
clothes, with her quick, jaunty air, had any
desire to know such slow, toiling bread-
earners! Yet that was just what she did
want—she had a burning desire to know
them and to study them. Artists don’t hunt
subjects in the universities and opera houses
of the world—there art itself is personified
—but in humble haunts where nature has
full sway.
	Few even of the peasants, in this day ever
wear those picturesque costumes of the Can-
tons but Elsie had noted with great satis-
faction that in the Matte some of the women
and girls went to church on Sundays decked
in these “adorable” costumes replete with
fluted stomacher, velvet bodice and collar,
silk apron, silver chains and all, and among
these was Tante Rora.
	In her mind Elsie framed all kinds of
romances about this tall dignified wash-
woman, but never one, if she only knew it,
that equalled the true romance. But let
that pass.
	She finally found her way to the home by
asking to make a study sketch of Tante in
her Swiss costume. The first visit led to
many more until she became quite a familiar
sight along the river front. In return for the
sittings and suggestions she received, Elsie
used to tell such wonderful things of the op-
portunities of her own western home that
several of the families in the Matte became
fired with a desire to emigrate to that great
America. She surely had told them how
low their earnings were in their own land
compared with what they could get in hers,
and she certainly meant them well when
she told Fritz, Tante Rora’s only son that
for what he now received, two francs, he
would get five times so much in America,
that, in fact, he would very shortly receive
enough so the “gute Mutter” would not need
to work at all.
	Through her good management the “gute
Mutter” had been able to save quite a little
hoard of money and she very gladly ad-
vanced this to her boy Fritz to emigrate to
this wonderful America, with the under-
standing that when he found this work
which would pay him so well he send for
his mother. 
	There was some commotion in the “Matte”
getting young Fritz ready for the long
journey; but finally the good-byes were said
and he started for Basle expecting there to
find an emigration agent sending other peo-
ple. He had not long to wait; a boat load
soon started down the Rhine, thence to Ant-
werp, where ship would be taken to bring
them across the broad ocean to the promised
land. He lifted his eyes to the great moun-
tains and watched them until he was far on
the way, tears for a moment in his eyes, but
hope in his heart; and with the bouyancy of
youth he was soon interested in the friendly
jargon around him, and the many expecta-
tions of his fellow-passengers.


[Column 1]
	Fritz was Tante Rora’s only son. She had
a daughter, Frieda, but she never spoke of
her, only perhaps to say, “She lives in the
city and we never see her;” and Elsie soon
learned that Frieda was not counted much
upon in the Matte, therefore not to be talked
about.
	In due time young Fritz reached America
and with the help of a letter Elsie had given
him, for she wisely advised him to go west,
he quickly found employment. His wages
it is true were much better than he had at
home, but he also found that it cost him
much more to live, and then the boy was
quite lonely and he soon began to think he
had better marry. After the first year he
wrote his mother how sorry he was not to
send for her but he had to pay for his room
and board and he hadn’t been able to save
the money.
	About this time the Butikofer family emi-
grated, bringing with them their daughter
Meta. Poor Fritz could not conceal his af-
fection for the pretty girl– he had known
her in his old home and he made haste to
make love to her now; and soon the two
were married.
	At the end of the second year he wrote
again how sorry he was but they were just
trying now to make a home for his mother
to come to, and besides, before long they
were going to surprise her with some good
news just now there were so many things
to get for Meta, but next year surely they
would send.
	And so it went; work was plentiful enough
for Fritz, but with the increase of many fam-
ily cares and the not too frugal ways of
Meta he never seemed to be able to save
anything towards bringing his mother to
him. He did not inherit the thrift and ec-
onomy of his mother, though his inten-
tions were good enough.
	After about three years Elsie found her-
self again in Berne, and she naturally sought
the gossips of the “Matte” at the fountains.
	To her surprise, there she found Tanta
Rora still soaping and splashing soiled gar-
ments on the stones of the fountains.
	“Why, Tanta Rora,” she exclaimed,
“hasn’t Fritz sent for you yet?”
	“No,” replied she, “Fritz is married now,
and has a baby boy and they must buy
a home, so he could not send.’
	“But he owes it to you,” said Elsie; “he
should have sent for you before he mar-
ried.”
	“He writes that perhaps next year he
will,” said his mother, “but by that time I
will have enough of my own to go.”
	And she did. She washed on Mondays
and Wednesdays, sold laces of her own
handiwork in the market on Tuesdays and
Fridays, and scrubbed on Saturdays, never
allowing herself any time for anything but
work, and at the end of the fourth year she
had enough means to go to the Basle, as
Fritz had before her, and engage passage
for America. Some few of her neighbors in
the “Matte” went that year also, so the voy-
age had at least some sociability about it if
nothing else pleasant. These poor steerage
passengers would find the voyage almost un-
bearable were it not for the companion-
ship they give each other.
	Tanta Rora was not so full of hope and
joy as her Fritz had been. Her hard life
had inured her to the old ways and customs
of her native land. She loved the great snowy
mountains, the river Aare, the bears, the dark,
arching towers and arcades of Berne. Her
heart was sad to leave it all and full of fore-
bodings of the long journey and the pros-

[Column 2]
pects of the new home. But one sweet
thought urged her on more than anything,
and that was to clasp to her breast the little
baby boy of whom Fritz and Meta wrote
such wonderful things. She hoped she
might never need to work so hard again,
but help Meta in the home and mind the lit-
tle grandson. But alas for poor Tanta Rora!
There was surely no surcease to her labors.
Fritz loved his mother, and so did Meta, of
course, very much, but about every year or
two a new baby came, and the little home
was not quite paid for, so the “Gute mutter”
must work just the same in the new land as
in the old, only here it was harder. The
modern methods somewhat puzzled her, and
the American ladies seemed so hard to
please. Meta showed her, however about
the washboards and the tubs, and the boil-
ing and sudsing and rinsing and starching,
so that in time she became quite profic-
ient and though she never could learn Eng-
lish, she learned the value of her work and
could easily compute American money.
That was about as far as her knowledge
of English ever went. From a friend she
learned that scrubbing the big stores at
night was also a genteel and profitable occu-
pation among her class, so she sought and
found employment at this.
	Thus, with the help of the “gute mutter”
the home was soon paid for, and many nec-
essary articles of clothing and furniture were
brought into it. Day in, day out, and night
as well, Tanta Rora worked at her washing
and scrubbing and when Sunday came she
was too tired to go anywhere, so she usu-
ally tended the “kinder” for poor Meta to
get a little change. She had one
regret on Sunday—she always longed to put
on her Swiss costume that the American
lady had thought so “perfectly lovely,” and
she brought it with her, but Meta and the
“kinder” said people would laugh at her, if
she wore such an odd habit, so it remained
folded in the wicker trunk in which it had
crossed the sea, and on Sunday she dressed
in the regulation ugly, plain black dress and
white apron of all old ladies who work for a
living.
	After some years abroad Elsie returned to
her western home, hung a few sketches on
exhibition in her native town, sold one or
two, then gave up a “career” and married
an old sweetheart, a prosperous business
man, and settled down to the usual routine
of calling, shopping, clubs and other social
duties of a successful, accomplished matron.
	One evening, happening to have called at
one of the big stores just at closing time for
some trifle, Elsie suddenly ran across Tan-
ta Rora just as she was entering to begin
her evening labor of washing up the floor.
She knew her immediately—Tanta Rora
was not the kind one easily forgets; and she
laughingly gave her greetings in the old
Swiss way. Elsie stopped long enough to
learn where Fritz’s home was, it was his home
now not his mother’s, and somewhat of how
they lived; then with a promise to look them
up she passed on.
	Tanta Rora’s heart was quite lifted up
with this encounter, and she hummed a tune
as she scrubbed that night, much to the
astonishment of the night watchman, who
had never heard her speak at all before.
Anyway, she was not the kind to complain,
if she ever thought there was cause, she
never said so, but made the best of every-
thing. Still she did hope the pretty Ameri-
can would come and see them. And really
Elsie intended to—she knew how it would
please the old lady to show off the numerous

[Column 3]
little grandchildren, but somehow she never
found time, their worlds were so far apart.
	One morning, when casually glancing
through the death notices of the morning
paper she came across a name which arrested
her attention. “Yes, surely that is she, for
besides the odd name, it says, native of
Berne, Switzerland. Poor Tanta Rora—so
that is the end, and I never went to see you
nor brought you here, though goodness
knows I intended to, for you were always
sweet to me.” Alas, what use are vain re-
grets! Why do we mortals so often lay
aside our true and good intentions and pick
up the false gods that surround our daily
life? However she meant to make amends
now as far as possible, and calling for her
carriage to be got ready, she ran to the tele-
phone and ordered a spray of flowers to be
ready for her when she called, then quickly
dressed and was on her way, for the paper
had said the funeral would be that morn-
ing. Having left her carriage at the corner
Elsie reached the little home just as the fam-
ily and friends in solemn array were march-
ing to the little church near by where the
services were to be conducted. Fritz she
would scarcely have known, now a short,
stout man with lines of care and hard work
on his face, and leaning on his arm was the
ever faithful, weeping. Meta, dressed in
full mourning, long black veil and all. Elsie
followed the procession into the church,
where had assembled a quaint company. It
was almost like being in Berne again, for
there were the friends of the “Matte” who
had gathered here, besides a few neighbors
and Churchmen. Elsie sent her flowers up,
then sat near the rear of the building, her
lovely self the one odd piece in that strange
setting. She soon adapted herself to her
surroundings, however, and began to pick
out familiar faces among the mourners.
Surely there were other groups of the Berne
fountains, Tanta Rora was not the only one
lured by tales of this wonderland! The
music was good, a German choir singing
German hymns, and the minister who
knew Tanta Rora well, knew her as Elsie
knew her—not the “wash woman,” nor the
“scrub lady,” but her worth, her thrift, her
kind deeds. He told of many kindnesses
to his parish, outside of what she had been
to her own, and then related how she had
saved enough means to pay for this beauti-
ful funeral.
	Poor Tanta Rora, did you slave day after
day, night after night to save enough for a fine
burial? Why could you not have had some of
these flowers, music, carriages, and fine
things in life, I wonder if you will ever know
how really fine they were? If so, no donbt
your soul is satisfied.
			ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Ida Husted Harper, will edit Progress,
beginning with the January number. In
the meantime send your suffrage items and
your subscriptions to Warren, O.
	The headquarters of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association has been
moved from Warren, O., to New York. The
offices are located on the 17th floor of a
handsome new office building at 505 Fifth
Ave. Rev. Anna H. Shaw and Prof. Frances
Squire Potter, President and Corresponding
Secretary are the officers in charge. The
Press Department is under the personal di-
rection of Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, bio-
grapher of Susan B. Anthony, assisted by
Elizabeth J. Hauser, of Ohio.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine stake was held in the large
new meetinghouse Pleasant Grove on Friday,
April 30, 1909. President Rebecca Standring
presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring greeted the sisters, spoke of
the late General Conference in Salt Lake
City and the remarks of President Joseph
F. Smith, the spirit of which was “Peace, be
still.” We have nothing to fear if we do
our duty. Which was also beautifully por-
trayed in our Stake Conference held a week
ago. Let us be faithful and do our duty and
all will be well with us. Let us not think
that when we pass from here that our work
will be done, for we shall find that we will
still be busy. This existence is only a school
of preparation. Let us show that our hearts
are in the work.
	Reading by Emma J. T: Roberts on
“Compensation, or the reward of action.”
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman,
thought there was a very good representa-
tion of the stake this morning. We know
what the sisters are doing, and the good
which they accomplish.
	Sister Standring has the faculty of having
the sisters work in union, and they take
pleasure in their labors, keeping busy and
honor their calling. We should be a light
to the world. People who have lived among
us say they never saw a more industrious
people. Our mission is to save all who will
be saved. You sisters are accomplishing
much good.
	Sister Emily C. Bullock felt grateful to
the Lord that she was able to be here and
partake of the spirit of this meeting. Could
see a great improvement in the people for
the sisters are doing a good work in the
wards. Was thankful for her standing in the
Church and desired to spend the remainder
of her days in usefulness among the people.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor Har-
riet Jacobs.
	Afternoon Session: Conference 2 p. m.
Counselor Annie C. Hindley in charge.
	After the devotional exercises.
	Duet, “Beyond the Shadows” by Sisters
Blanch Greenwood and Ellen Smith.
	Sister Sina Chipman gave a talk on the
importance of instilling faith into our chil-
dren. The greatest need is religious train-
ing in the home.
	Sister Ellen D. Clarke gave a short sketch
of the life of Sister Emma S. Featherstone,
showing her devotion to the work of the
Lord, and her diligence in Relief Society
work.
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency. When we meet in such assemblies
as this, we enjoy the spirit and feeling of
each other and our Father in Heaven, and
can apply it to our lives. Spoke along the
line of prohibition and habits in the home
in regard to the word of wisdom. Alpine
stake stands almost at the head of the list
alphabetically. Let us strive to have it at
the top in living up to the word of God.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake Pre-
sidency said when you heard the truth in
your native land, you compared it with the
scripture and found it correct. It is just as
true today. We cannot shirk the responsi-
bility of it, and the Lord will prepare us for
it if we do our part and serve Him faithfully.
The Latter-day Saints should be the first to
abolish the evil of intemperance, and use
our influence in the suppression of the liquor

[Column 2]
traffic. Let us place the seal of dishonor on
it and not give license to such places. Spoke
of the erection of the Stake Tabernacle and
advised the sisters to prepare to leave a
legacy after they are gone beyond so that
children and others may see our good works.
	Stake President Stephen L. Chipman en-
dorsed the remarks of the brethren. Let
us be interested in building our Stake Taber-
nacle. It will be an honor to us in days to
come and we will be thankful that we have
helped to build and pay for it, if it is ever so
small. May God bless the efforts of the sis-
ters of Alpine stake.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt that we
had had a feast of fat things and prayed the
Lord’s choicest blessings upon us as mothers
and advised us to help in the building of the
Tabernacle Compared the gospel and the
life to come to traveling in an Ocean Steamer.
We can have first, second or third class pas-
sage, just as we wish, by the deeds of this
life. Thanked the sisters of Pleasant Grove
for the nice lunch they had served, and com-
mended the move for it makes the work of
the sisters less and they have more time to
attend meeting and devote to other duties.
	Meeting closed by singing. Prayer by Pre-
sident Rebecca Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


[Column 1]
HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
	Two very celebrated great men, H. B.
Blackwell and W. L. Garrison, have died
quite recently that will be greatly missed
by the suffrage women of the country, be-
cause of their advocacy of equal rights and
the strength of helpfulness to the cause of
humanity along many lines of uplifting.
They were contemporary with some of the
very greatest men that New England has
produced, and almost the last of those we
are wont to call “the old school.” They
were among the promoters of anti-slavery
and other notable reforms. Of this class
too were Whittier and Holmes, Wendell
Phillips, Theodore Parker, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson and George Wm. Curtis,
the Alcotts, Edward Everett Hale, and many
illustrous women of the same sterling inte-
grity, who were associated in the work, Lu-
cretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Frances E. Willard and Susan B. An-
thony; now only Julia Ward Howe and Car-
oline M. Severance remain of that bright
galaxy of men and women of that early pe-
riod—yet we must not pass over the two
sisters and the sister in law of Henry Browne
Blackwell each of them we might say equal-
ly celebrated, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell now
aged 87, Dr. Emily Blackwell, aged 83, and
Rev. Antoinette Browne Blackwell, names
familiar to all the progressive women of our
time, and well known in the annals of his-
tory of the forward movements of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	The tributes paid to the life and work of
these great men would fill volumes, yet they
suffered persecution because of espousing a

[Column 2]
then unpopular cause, that has since been
characterized as a righteous and noble
undertaking. So goes the world, John Green-
leaf Whittier wrote of the late Mr. Blackwell
the following verse which is truly expressive
of his loyalty to woman kind.

	“Never woman in her suffering saw
		A helper tender, true and brave as he,
	Lifting her burden of unrighteous law
		He shames the boast of ancient chivalry.”

	The beautiful tributes paid to Mr. Black-
well by his devoted and widely beloved
daughter Alice Stone Blackwell are most
tender and touching, expressing as they do
the purest sentiments of love and trust. At
the close of her In Memoriam she gives these
grand and telling words of Garibaldi to
Josephine E. Butler. “Remember that,
though we pass away, and the leaders of a
cause fall one by one, principles never die;
they are eternal, world-wide and unchange-
able.”
	Mr. Blackwell was at the Suffrage Con-
vention in Seattle in July of this year climb-
ing mountains and taking part in all the
strenuous work of the campaign for suffrage.
He was wonderfully vigorous to the very
last, only the Sunday before his illness he
walked three miles over rough hills and along
the cliffs on the south shore of Martha’s
Vineyard in the early morning, and while
he was ill in bed he referred to that trip to
the Vineyard and how he had enjoyed it.
Mr. Blackwell strongly disapproved of show
and expense at funerals and repeatedly im-
pressed upon his daughter (his only child)
“that when he passed away he wished to
have only a simple pine box.” Henry
Browne Blackwell was born May 4, 1825,
died Sept. 7, 1909. Doubtless most of our
readers know he was the husband of Lucy
Stone of wide-world fame. At the time of
the courtship of this illustrious couple Lucy
Stone “was the best known advocate of
woman’s rights in the country, and a set of
verses had not long before appeared in the
Boston papers describing the fervent grati-
tude that awaited the valiant man who
should marry her and by matrimony (it was
assumed) reduce her to silence.”

	A name like Curtiss shall be his,
		On Fame’s loud trumpet blown,
	Who with a wedding kiss shuts up
		The mouth of Lucy Stone.

	Perhaps this little verse may give some of
our young people an idea of how the early
advocates of woman’s rights were ridiculed
and not only that but persecuted.
	The writer recalls many pleasant inter-
views with this genial chivalrous gentleman,
he had known a number of our people in
the early days of the Church in Ohio and
had some business transactions with them
of which he spoke favorably, remembering
their business capacity of which he spoke in
terms of praise, mentioning particularly
Hyrum Kimball and Joseph L. Heywood.
Mr. Blackwell was a man of tremendous
power in speaking and in writing.
	(Unfinished article by the Editor)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


Vol 38 –– 5, 1, 2, 3, 6,
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

