Vol. 38. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1910. No. 10.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
President Bathsheba W. Smith, Portrait..........	73
Birthday Anniversary, May 3, 1910................	73
Peace Meetings................................................	74
Bathsheba W. Smith, a Tribute...........E. B. W.	75
Honor to Retiring Officers...............................	75
Story of a Century.............Emmeline B. Wells	77
Address to Relief Society Nurse School Grad-
	uates.........................Annie Wells Cannon	78
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Alpine............	79
A Remarkable Woman (Concluded) E. B. W.	79
Editorial:—Celebrated People..........................	76
	Susan H. Wells..........................................	76
	Graduating Exercises of Relief Society
		Nurse Class...........................A.W. C.	76
In Memoriam.....................................................	79
Notes and News............................................... 75, 80
Poetry:—Life’s Voyage..........Julia Ward Howe	73
	Tapestry Weavers.......................................	73
	Quest and Message......Emmeline B. Wells	75


LIFE’S VOYAGE.
		By Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
I have made a voyage upon a golden river,
	’Neath clouds of opal and of amethyst.
Along its banks bright shapes were moving ever,
	And threatening shadows melted into mist.
My journey nears its close—in some still haven
	My bark shali find its anchorage of rest,
When the kind hand which every good has given,
	Opening with wider grace shall give the best.


TAPESTRY WEAVERS.
Let us take to ourselves a lesson,
	No lesson can braver be,
Of the ways of the tapestry weavers,
	On the other side of the sea.
Above their head the pattern hangs,
	They study it with care,
The while their fingers deftly weave,
	Their eyes are fastened there.
They tell this curious thing besides,
	Of the patient plodding weaver,
He works on the wrong side evermore,
	But works for the right side ever.
It is only when his work is done,
	And the web is loosed aud turned,
That he sees the real handiwork
	His marvelous skill has learned.
Ah, the sight of its delicate beauty!
	How it pays him for all its cost!
No rarer, daintier work than his
	Was ever done by the frost.
The years of man are nature’s looms,
	Let down from the place of the sun,
Wherein we are weaving alway,
	Till the mystic work is done.
Sometimes blindly—but weaving surely,
	Each for himself his fate;
We may not see how the right side looks,
	We must often weave—and wait.
			—New England Magazine.


[Image with the caption “PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.”]

[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, MAY 3, 1910.
	Most of our readers know the name—sig-
nificant it seems of excellence: Bathsheba
W. Smith; she was born May 3, 1822, and
was eighty-eight on Monday, May 3, 1910,
and the General Board of the Relief Society
gave a party in her honor on that day in
the Relief Society headquarters in the grand
new building.
	It was a very enjoyable affair and quite in
keeping with the lady’s own views of such
occasions; she wanted her own relatives and
particular friends invited. The rooms were
artistically decorated and all the arrange-
ments were made with a view and desire to
honor her, and show reverence to her long
life of labor and usefulness in every sphere
she has been called to fill.
	She looked queenly in her shimmering
white home made silk dress and elegant,
dainty laces and her beautiful smooth white
hair with a real lace scarf gracefully thrown
over her head added much to the stately
dignity of her appearance.
	President John Henry Smith was Master
of Ceremonies and maintained the dignity
of the occasion admirably. Professor John
J. McLellan gave a piano solo and some
other exquisite musical selections; Clive’s
string band were there to add to the musical
part of the program. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, with her beautiful soprano voice,

[Column 2]
sang several old fashioned favorites, “Mary
of Argyle,” “Silver Threads Among the
Gold” and others.
	The exercises began with the hymn “Our
Mountain Home so Dear,” prayer by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Address President
Joseph F. Smith, who spoke most affection-
ately of his dear Aunt Bathsheba, recounting
some of his childhood recollections of the
home his uncle, President George A. Smith,
church historian, and Aunt Bathsheba occu-
pied, to many known now only as the “Old
Historian’s Office; he paid a beautiful trib-
ute to her motherly tenderness and her
many virtues and excellent attributes as
wife, mother, and saint, and alluded to her
Temple work for so many years and her
faithful discharge of religious duties and ob-
ligations as well as all others in family or
public life. He gave some brief reminis-
cences of childhood, and experiences as a
missionary when very young on the Sand-
wich Islands, that were quite pathetic, ex-
pressed himself as deeply interested in the
Relief Society and his ardent desire was to
see it accomplish its great mission and des-
tiny.
	Response: President Bathsheba W. Smith
welcomed the friends and relatives assem-
bled in a few well-chosen words, rejoiced to
see them all under such prosperous circum-
stances, felt she wanted them all to keep
the faith and be true to the covenants they


[Column 1]
had made, she loved the Temple, she was
never absent a day scarcely, nor from her
meetings of the Relief Society, she testified
to the divinity of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and that she had re-
ceived her endowments in his life time, the
only living witness of that ordinance during
the Prophet’s life and she also told the aud-
ience she was the only living witness of that
memorable meeting held in the Masonic
Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois, when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet himself
—she bless d all present and asked the
Lord to bless us and exhorted all present
to be faithful and true, hoped we might
have a good time.
	Music followed: Soprano solo, Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward:—
	When I think of violets, then I think of you;
	When I think of roses, then I think of you;
it was as beautiful as a midsummer dream.
	“The story of a Century,” by Emmeline
B. Wells came next, and a motion was made
and a vote taken that it be published.
	An exquisite piano solo by Professor Mc-
Clellan called forth great applause.
	Remarks by President John Henry Smith
were full of love and tenderness as indeed,
they must be, he having looked upon “Aunt
Bathsheba” as one of his mothers, having
been bereft of his own mother at an early
age, and of a very loving nature; he has al-
ways been like an own son to his ‘Aunties’
and they all sort of lay claim to him; his
eulogy of this lady whose birthday was be-
lng honored was very suggestive of his own
standard of ideal womanhood, and in a way,
a sort of “hero-worship” as applied to wo-
man.
	As there were no notes taken it is quite
impossible to repeat in his own language the
remarks he made, but it was evident he felt
deeply, and what he expressed came from
the man’s heart.
	More music and old-fashioned songs by
Sister Edward, “Mary of Argyle,” and “Sil-
ver Threads Among the Gold,”.
	Some interesting recollections of her grand-
mother were given by Leila Merrill Allen
the eldest grand-daughter of the honored
lady and they were told in a very quaint,
realistic style, and naturally recalled to all
present the sweet simplicity of the early
days, when conditions were very different to
what they are at the present time. An ideal
grandmother certainly was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith to all the little ones, and is today,
not only to those that are now mature men
and women, but to the next generation,who
are as devoted and worshipful and full of
love as were their mothers before them.
	President Anthon H. Lund made some
closing remarks expressing his pleasure in
being present at the 88th birthday party,
and speaking of his acquaintance with Pres-
ident George A. Smith for whom he seemed
to have great love and admiration, alluded
to the beautiful life-work of Sister Bath-
sheba and her devotion to the temple.
	The exercises were dismissed with prayer.
	A social hour followed and the daintiest
refreshments were served by members of the
board assisted by their daughters and a very
pleasant and enjoyable time with music
from the band and piano, and the birthday
party was certainly a happy affair.
	The guest of honor had many gifts and
tokens of love, and flowers in great abund-
ance,a large bouquet of American beauty ros-
es, carnations in great variety and with the
heartiest congratulations of all assembled,

[Column 2]
and earnest wishes for health and happiness
in the days yet to come. Loaded with flow-
ers and beaming with kindness and appreci-
ation the lady of 88 took her leave of the
guests, to retire to her sweet little cottage
embowered in the green vines and shrubbery
of May-time.
	We wish her more happy birthdays
		And years in the House of the Lord:
	With health and prosperity always,
		And all that this earth can afford;
	And at last a glad welcome above,
	With a fulness of joy and of love.	E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		PEACE MEETINGS.
	We are pleased to state that in the North
Weber Stake, Peace meetings have been held
in every ward, also that the meetings were
all held on Sunday evening, May 15th, 1910.
	There are twelve wards in this stake. The
programs rendered were under the auspices
of the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A.
and were as follows:
	Far West: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“Star Spangled Banner;” Peace poem by
Mrs. Susa Kotch; piano solo by Bessie Tay-
lor; Hague Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Sarah
A. Larkin; Peace rallying song, Helena Cot-
tle, Walter Cottle, Clarence Stephenson and
Cora Stephenson; recitation, “Let there be
Peace,” Maud Taylor; solo, “Somewhere,”
Alice Burnett; “Utah Stake Peace Poem,”
Mrs. May Stewart. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 83 present.
	Harrisville: Songs, “America,” by Con-
gregation, and “Red, White and Blue,” by
five little girls; Hague Court and Arbitra-
tion,” Mrs. Emmeline Shurtliff; duet, “Just
Before the Battle, Mother,” Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel Blair; Peace talk, Mrs. Emma
Harris; recitation, “Let us have Peace,”
Miss Fern Harris; solo, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” Miss Edith Beryessa. Resolutions
were adopted. 79 present.
	Lynne: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“There is a place in Utah,” “Star Spangled
Banner,” “God will protect thee;” recitetion,
“Utah State Peace Poem;” Hague Court and
general peace talk, Mr. Lawrence Malin.
Resolutions were adopted. 60 presens.
	Ogden Third Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled
Banner,” "America,” ‘‘Lord we ask Thee,”
Hague Court and Arbitration and general
peace talk by Lucretia West and Lucy A.
Steers; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Emma Greenwell; solo, “Peace rallying
song,” Lawrence Greenwell; peace talk,
Sarah Williams; international arbitration,
Christian J. Jensen; solo, ‘‘Hail Columbia,”
George O. Nye. Resolutions were adopted.
200 present.
	Ogden Tenth Ward: Songs, “America,”
“Star Spangled Banner,” “Lord we ask
Thee,” Hague Court and Arbitration, George
Barker; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Mrs. Bradley, solo, “The Prince of Peace,”
Mrs. Florence Fisher; recitation, “Peace in
the Home,” Maud Barker; solo, Mrs. Porter.
Resolutions were adopted. 77 present.
	Taylor Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner.” ‘‘Columbia the Gem of the Ocean;”
“America;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Elizabeth Wayment; Hague Court and Arbi-
tration, Ella Barnes and Mr. Elijah W. Clay-
ton, solo, “Just as the Sun went down,”
Minnie J. Jardine; “Peace rallying song,”
Lillian and Ethel Hunter; recitation, “Let
us have peace,” Hazel Daley; remarks.
Bishop William H. Jardine. Resolutions
were adopted. 88 present.

[Column 2]
	West Weber Ward: Songs, “America;”
“Red, White and blue,” “Peace rallying
song;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Agnes Hogge; “Utah State Peace Poem,”
Annie Penman; Hague Court and Arbitra.
tion, George Hislop. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 72 present,
	Marriott: Songs by congregation, “Ameri-
ca,” and “Jesus once of humble Birth.”
“Our Mountain Home so Dear;” Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. May N. Butler;
duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,” Mr.
Albert Powel and Mr. Richard C. Butler,
reading, “Let us have Peace,” Mrs. Eveline
James “Red Cross Society,” Mrs. Harriet
R. Bingham; violin solo. Mr. Lawrence
Millard; reading, “Let there be peace,”
Mrs. Marcia A. Reeder; anthem by choir.
Resolutions were adopted. 100 present.
	Plain City: Songs, “Behold the Mountain
of the Lord,” “Star Spangled Banner,”
“Red White and Blue,” solo and chorus,
“Just before the Battle, Mother;” instru-
mental selection, Bertha Robson; solo, “The
Guiding Star,” Iona Garner, Hague Court
and Arbitration, Florence Jenkins; arbitra-
tion vs. war, Peter M. Folkman; talk on
peace, Bishop Henry J Garner, recitation,
“Let there be peace,” Rose Kerr; “Utah
State Peace Poem,” Cora Carver. Resolu-
tions were adopted. 142 present.
	Slatervilte: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America,” “Closing Hymn;,, Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Isabel Allred;
solo, “There is a place in Utah,” Cora
Cowan, reading on peace, Jerome Wheeler;
recitation, “Let there be Peace,” Ada Perry;
duet, “My Father Knows,” Alice Holly and
Della Howell; peace talk, Bishop James
Slater; reading, “Let us have peace,” Eliza
H. Knight. Resolutions were adopted. 55
present.
	Wilson Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner,” “Red White and Blue,” ‘ Peace on
Earth and good will to Men;” First Hague
Court, Eliza D. Martin; Second Hague
Court, Elizabeth Wilson. duet, “Just before
the Battle, Mother,” Edwin M. Bingham
and Norman Olsen; recitation, “Let us have
Peace,” Anna Drake; duet, “Peace rallying
song,” Julia Moore and Sarah Cowley; read-
ing, “Let there be peace,” Ellen Hogge.
Resolutions were adopted. 121 present.
	Warren Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America” “Parting Hymn;” First
Hague Court, Cederisa Willis; Second Hague
Court, Isabel M. Ward; duet, “Just before the
Battle, Mother,” Rose Bullock, Hazel Wade;
reading, “Utah State Peace Poem,” Melissa
Willis; remarks, Bishop William T. Way-
ment and Myron Wade. Resolutions were
adopted. 40 present.
	Yours in the cause of truth and peace.
			GEORGINA G. MARRIOTT,
						President R. S.
			MARY N. BUTLER,
						Secretary R. S.
			ELIZA F. MCFARLAND,
				President Y. L. M. I. A.
			LLLLIE MOYES,
						Secretary.


Queen Mary is the first Queen consort born
in England for two hundred years. She is
described as a woman of strong will and vig-
orous initiative, and it is believed that she
will be a power in the life of the court and
of the nation. She was educated, as was
Queen Victoria, in the strictest, simplest
way. She is fond of music and art and is a
good needle-woman. She is described as a
model mother, and is devoted to her hus-
band and children.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


QUEST AND MESSAGE.
Flitting through my mental vision
	As I sat while idly dreaming
In the silence of the night time
	Came fond memories o’er me stealing;
		Tender voices seemed to whisper
		Softly as an evening vesper.
Bringing back the former days
	With remembrances enthralling,
Scenes long past and half-forgotten,
	Names of those we loved recalling,
		Echoes of the far-off olden
		From the hills of memory golden.
Shall I tell you all the story
	As we sit together feasting,
What I saw while thus reclining,
	Tell you how my soul went questing
		Far off to the long ago
		In search of our Eliza Snow?
Angel-faces stood out clearly,
	Radiant in the distance gleaming,
I was conscious of a presence
	That with majesty was beaming,
		And sweet music dream-like trilling
		Till my very soul was thrilling.
Did she come from fields elysian?
	Fresh as early dews of morning,
Standing just within the portal,
	Queenly in her bright adorning,
		Entered with that lofty tread —
		Veiled in mystic like the dead.
Not a single word was spoken,
	But the manner was controlling;
’Twas a message to us bearing
	For our human lives consoling;
		In her hand she held a tablet,
		Which I never can forget.
On the tablet’s shining surface
	Was a shield of finest tracing,
And a couplet wrought with pearls
	Set with diamonds interlacing.
		“Purity Forevermore”
		The inscription that it bore.
	VISION VANISHED.
Here she taught us life’s great lessons,
	From the fount above obtaining;
As we trod life’s paths together,
	Always righteousness maintaining—
		With that wondrous gift of power,
		Her true heritage and dower.
Many years she served the Master,
	Truth’s great banner wide unfurling,
O’er the world she carried tidings
	To all human souls uplifting;
		Gladdest message of true light
		Peering through the darkest night.
Famous jewels she had gathered
	In her pilgrimage sojourning,
Which she scattered ’mong the daughters
	Freely, generously bestowing
		Precious truths, the choicest gems.
		Fairer than earth’s diadems.
Rarest, sweetest songs of Zion
	That are sung with sacred feeling—
Given her thro’ inspiration.
	Holy principles revealing
		Crown with honor her great name,
		Linked with everlasting fame.
And we call her regnant-mother;
	In her chaste, pure life exceling—
Zion’s daughters down the ages
	Will her messages be telling.
		Poet! Priestess, Prophet too—
		Israel’s hosts will honor you.
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.
January 21, 1910.


[Column 1]
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
			A TRIBUTE.
“Life’s waning hours, like the Sybil’s page,
	As they lessen in value rise.
Oh rouse thee and live! nor dream thine age
Stands in the length of its pilgrimage,
But in days that are truly wise.”
	It is difficult to write of one who has
ived so long and seen so much, and whose

[Column 2]
life has been so full of the riches of experi-
ences; one stands bewildered in the midst of
the overwhelming fact of such great scenes
even sometimes tragedies, through which
men and women pass who have lived long,
what tales these veterans could tell if one
could pause to listen; comedies too, per-
chance; but we cannot unfold the thrilling
incidents that are too sacred for the public
eye or ear. No! nor would we if we could,
and so we repeat again what shall one say
of this grand woman who stands among us
today like some great oak, under whose
sweeping branches—where all may come
seeking for courage and for wisdom to know
how their lives may be so ordered that 
they may pass unscathed through fiery or-
deals.
	What life has meant to her ever since her
girlhood days, when she roamed afield in
her fair Southern home “to be a Saint of
God in very deed’’ this has been her great
ambition and desire. In that far-off time,
when the young Elder George A. Smith
came and in her father’s house proclaimed
the Gospel plan, she heard and treasured
the words of life and salvation and believ-
ing with all her heart and soul, she entered
in at the baptismal door; and anon love
came, and the eternal marriage covenant:
and ever since from step to step, up the
long ladder of the narrow way, that leads
from height to height, she has mounted
planting her feet secure and firm upon each
round, until she reached the highest step-
and there she has made her calling secure
within the holy Temple.
	Do you think this long life has been one
of ease, far from it—every quality of heart
and soul that she possessed has been called
into exercise to help her on the upward way.
There have been thorns and thistles, too,
but she has not let them overcome her zeal
or fortitude, she has striven and gone past
all obstacles and by faith and prayer has
gained the victory. And now we see her
grandly beautiful at eighty-eight! Who that
has seen her in the Temple can ever forget
her stately, dignified and royal manner.
	To the youth of Zion she is a pattern they
may well strive to imitate, for she has bee 
prudent, wise and a marvel of industry;
excelling in most of the domestic arts
and sciences.
	She is the only living witness of the valid-
ity of the endowments in the days of Joseph
the Prophet, she is the only one left of those
who received these precious blessings in
those early days, and also of that noble band
of women who met by appointment in the
Masonic hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, on that
memorable day March 17, 1842, when that
first organization of women, in all the world
so far as known was effected.
	How thankful the women of the Latter-
day Saints should be to have this living wit-
ness of these two wondrous events in their
midst at the present day, and to hear from
her own lips the assurance of these facts
confirmed. This testimony has been given
verbally to thousands who should treasure
this knowledge in their hearts. It is very
important to treasure up the gems of truth
and knowledge of sacred things, spoken bymen and women who were engaged in this
great work in the very beginning, who have
been valiant and fearless in standing stead-
fast for the truth, and seeking to promote
the cause of righteousness.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith has preached
the simple life by living it. Early rising,
frugality, industry and simplicity in dress
and in household matter have in a marked

[Column 3]
degree been apparent in all her labors, and
yet she has kept abreast of the times; she
has never been behind in good works, or in
the part she has taken in affairs, public or
private, always ready, punctual to time
whenever duty called; in this one admirable
trait she excels even now, when she might
easily be forgiven if she were late at an ap-
pointment, but no, she is always at her post
on time.
	Seventeen years in the Salt Lake Temple
four days a week, what a record it is! Sis-
ter Smith has done more temple work than
any other woman; think of the thousands
she has met there and to whom she has ren-
dered service.
	Are we not proud and gratified that we
have known her, that we some of us have
served with her in the field of woman’s
endeavor. Words are inadequate to express
our admiration of her chaste and noble life
and example.
	Are we not glad that she has lived to be
	Four score and eight and vig’rous as you see?
	Has she not fought life’s battle valiantly?
	Truly she has been favored of the Lord,
	In bearing testimony of His word;
	Mother in Israel most assuredly.
								E. B. W.


HONOR TO RETIRING OFFICERS.
	A grand reception and banquet was given
March 5, 1910, from one to 5 o’clock, at the
Heber Amusement Hall, in honor of the
retiring officers of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake, who were honorably re-
leased at the quarterly conference, Jan. 15,
1910, after many years of excellent service.
Fully five hundred people partook of dinner
after which a fine program was rendered,
and each retiring officer presented with a
beautiful chair, as a token of love and es-
teem from all the members of all the wards
in the stake. It was given under the man-
agement of the newly-sustained stake offi-
cers, with the assistance of the ward officers.
It was one of the grandest social events ever
held in the stake and one long to be remem-
bered. The Stake organization now stands
as follows: President, Joannah E. Jensen;
First Counselor, Margaret Murdock; Second
Counselor, Sophia Luck; Secretary and
Treasurer Carlie C. Tidwell.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Both houses of the New York Legislature
have passed a bill empowering women in all
the towns, villages and third-class cities of
New York State to vote on bonding propo-
sitions.
	In Montreal, where women have the mu-
nicipal vote, they went to the polls in unpre-
cedented numbers at the recent city elec-
tion, and were a potent factor in helping to
elect a reform city government. The local
Council of Wyoming took the lead in this
successful effort to enlist the women, and
common cause was made by the women’
organizations of all kinds, French and Eng-
lish, Protestant and Catholic. The clergy
of all denominations united in urging the
women voters to disregard considerations of
race and religion and to support the candi-
dates who were for good government. A
corrupt and grafting administration that had
long plundered the city was triumphantly
turned out, and everyone is praising the
women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	MAY, 1910.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATED PEOPLE.
	Among the great events of this present
year, the one that is likely to mark the most
important changes is the death of King Ed-
ward VII. of Great Britain and Ireland and
Emperor of India, which took place May
6th, at the palace in London.
	His demise was unexpected until within
the last few hours, and it would seem the
King must have realized that his death was
imminent, for he is reported to have uttered
these decisive words: “Well, it is all over
but I think I have done my duty.’’
	The prevailing opinion seems to be that
he was a very broad-minded man, and as
serious matters were just pending in Parlia-
ment and the Cabinet, there will be some
anxiety on the part of those directly inter-
ested, what the outcome will be; probably
a postponement for an indefinite time.
	George Frederick Ernest Albert, son of
Edward VII, was publicly proclaimed king
of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and
Ireland and the British dominions beyond
the seas, defender of the faith and Emperor
of India from the friary court balcony of
St. James palace, London, with all the
elaborate ceremony of medieval times. He
chose the title George V. His father’s death
occurred May 6th, 1910, and the proclama-
tion of the now reigning king took place
May 9th. Whatever speculation there may
be concerning the new ruler his future career
must determine.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, whose name and
fame are world-wide and who is conceded to
be the most eminent living woman at the
present time, passed her ninety-first year
May 27th, 1910. Her birthday was elabor-
ately celebrated at her home in Boston, sur-
rounded by her children and grandchildren,
great-grandchildren and friends. Flowers
of fragrance in great abundance sent by
people representing many and varied con-
ditions of life were received.
	Mrs. Howe has been President of the New
England Woman Suffrage Association for
forty years; she is also and has been the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, and was its founder for
more than thirty years, and occupies many
other important positions. She has traveled
extensively and lectured on a variety of sub-
jects at home and in foreign lands. Her
poems and books are widely known; her
Battle Hymn of the Republic would have
made her famous if she had never written
another.

[Column 2]
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston says of
her birthday celebration:
	“In her exquisite white chair which is al-
ways her throne on these anniversary days
she sat and welcomed friends and neighbors
with all her characteristic grace and charm.
On the table just back of her in the bay-
window of the dining-room were many beau-
tiful flowers including ninety fine white roses
with one large American Beauty in the cen-
ter for the ninety-one years.
	“Upon the mantle stood another large
bouquet with a letter reading: ‘To Our Grand
Lady; May the love these roses represent be
with you every step on your life’s journey is
the loving wish of your friends the Greeks
of Boston.”
	On May 25th, two days earlier, Mrs. Howe
was guest of honor at a breakfast given at
Hotel Somerset, Boston, by the New Eng-
land Woman’s Club of which she Is Presi-
dent. Mrs. May Alden Ward presided, and
about 300 persons were seated at the tables
including many dignitaries. Mrs. Ward in-
troduced Mrs. Howe ‘‘as the unique mem-
ber of the association honored here and
through all the world.” When the applause
ceased Mrs. Howe responded:
	“We are living in an age of greatest pro-
gress. If I had had any idea of what would
be accomplished in my lifetime, I should
have been much surprised, especially by the
progress among women.
	“In my youth we were shut-ins and had
no business outside the home. I had a
rather wider bringing up than other women
and refused to be content with that order of
things.
	“Now things are very different, and the
whole world belongs to us. I feel, more on
that account than for any other reason, that
we must be up and doing, and live in the
today and the future.
	“This progress is good. I know that
good brings better, and better brings better
still. What the best is to be I don’t know,
but we have hopes.”


SUSAN H. WELLS.
	On May 3rd, 1830, soon after the organ-
ization of the Church, the woman whose
name we inscribe here was born in Lynn,
Mass., of good Yankee parentage. May
3rd, her birthday, was celebrated by her im-
mediate family and some few invited guests,
at a luncheon given by her only daughter,
Annette Wells Culmer at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, daughter
and son-in-law. The floral decorations were
superb.
	Mr. Culmer is an artist well known for
his many views of Utah mountain and lake
scenery in which he excels, and the Culmer
home is ideally artistic, but 'tis of the birth-
day of "Aunt Susan." as she is called, we
wish to tell.
	At her own home the beautiful morning
of May 3rd, there came a troop of children,
her own little ones, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren to greet her with respect,
kisses and flowers and precious gifts, but
above all with tender love. The lunch at
Mrs. Culmer's was of the most delicious
variety and delicately served by the charm-
ing girls of the family.
	Sister Susan Wells herself wore a black
silk dress with real lace collar and trim-
mings and looked not more than fifty years
of age.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was one of


the guests at the lunch, they have been
friends and neighbors for the greater part of
their lives, and as their birthdays occur on
the same day, the celebration never seems
complete unless they come together during
the day to exchange greetings. These gath-
erings in large families mark the mile-stones
along life's highway and call up memories
that are especially delightful to remember.
	Since the last birthday of Sister Susan
Wells one of the family, and of the house-
hold has crossed over to the other side, and
is sorely missed in social and family gather-
ings as well as in the household where she
was for many years the central figure. It
was better to have the birthday festivities at
the daughter's home, for one must not in-
dulge in excessive grief, it is not good for
the body or soul; to be cheerful and wear a
glad countenance is much better for us all
than to indulge in sadness.
	Sister Susan Wells has a fine family and
many blessings, beautiful grandchildren and
great-grandchildren to rise up and call her
blessed, and she has been faithful and true
in all the walks of life. We congratulate
her on her four score years, and pray she may
live as long as life is desirable.


GRADUATING EXERCISES OF RELIEF
SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	On Thursday evening, May 19, the Relief
Society rooms in the Bishop's Building pre-
sented a scene both beautiful and interest-
ing. It was the occasion of the graduating
exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class.
The rooms were bright with beautiful flow-
ers and the graduates looked especially
pretty in their white uniforms: a narrow
band of blue around the bib distinguishes
the Relief Nurses from others. There were
twenty-five girls graduated in the nurse
work and twenty in obstetrics, the latter,
Dr. Roberts private class. The spacious
rooms were full of the friends of the young
women, and besides there were present
many prominent physicians and leading
citizens. Refreshments were served in one
of the side rooms during th[-] evening.
	At the front of the room facing the grad-
uates and company sat the venerable presi-
dent of the Rel[-]ef Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith, the secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
the treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams and other
members of the General Board, with the
speakers of the evening, Pres. John Henry
Smith and Sister Annie W. Cannon. While
Mrs. Pheobe Y. Beatie, Dr. Margaret Rob-
erts, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Pris-
cilla Riter were busy receiving and making
people comfortable. The exercises were
under the able charge of General Treasurer
Clarissa S. Williams and opened by the
company singing the hymn, "Our Mountain
Home, so Dear!" led by Mr. Melvin Peter-
son. Prayer was offered by Dr. E. S. Wright
after which Miss Irene Kelly sang a soprano
solo. President Bathsheba [-]. Smith spoke
briefly to the young women graduates, ad-
monishing them to good deeds and praying
for God's blessings t[-] be given unto them in
their work. After more music President
John Henry Smith addressed the class and
company. He spoke to the girls of the res-
ponsibility of their work and urged upon
them caution, faith and care; he spoke most
eloquently of the blessing, sacredness and
glory of motherhood, such words of counsel
and advice as to inspire the hearts of his
listeners and fill them with determination
to make truth and honor paramount in their


lives and hold virtue as the greatest treasure
of life. He told how men might by obedi-
ence to their mother's teachings be guarded
through life from evil deeds and be the
righteous examples to their fellow men.
How the influence of one good man might
be the means of reforming a community.
He gave timely warnings to the young wo-
men in their profession, urging them whilst
always to be cool and calm in their work,
not to be over self-confident but in cases of
danger to life to call in the best assistance
obtainable, if expert help is not at hand to
have advice from those w[-]o hold authority
and get the best aid possible. His remarks
were listened to with utmost attention and
would most certainly give inspiration and
assistance to those who heard him. After a
duet by Miss Kelly and Mrs. Peterson, Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon representing the
General Board, then made an address which
we would like to give in full but space will
scarcely permit of that, so we reproduce it
in part, on onother page of the paper.
	This was followed by Sister Beatie making
some very happy remarks to the class and
company and mentioning with thanks the
assistance rendered the class by many of
the leading physicians, Drs. Smullion, Allen,
Cannon, Snow, Wright, Faust, Skolfield,
Mrs. Wilcox and Dusenbury and the able
assistance of Miss Lucy Van Cott in the
Domestic Science Work. Sister Williams
then called upon the class for a rising vote
of thanks to Dr. Roberts for her patient aud
careful teaching. Miss Woolley, one of the
graduates, then presented Dr. Roberts with
an elegant cut glass bowl filled with sweet
peas from the class as a mark of their affec-
tion and appreciation. Dr. Roberts briefly
replied; after singing "Doxology," the exer-
cises were closed by prayer by Elder B.
H. Roberts, after which a social hour was
spent in conversation and congratulations
thus closing another year's work in the Re-
lief Society Nurse Class.
A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STORY OF A CENTURY.
		Paper by Emmeline B. Wells.
	The greatest and first event in the century
that I shall open with in the disconnected
story I have to tell, is the advent of a
Prophet, born early in the nineteenth cen-
tury, and with him and his future rests the
foundation of the renewal of light or the
coming dawn that will ultimately light the
world.
	The Father and the Son appeared in a
glorious vision to Joseph, the boy prophet,
revealing the Gospel, restoring the Holy
Priesthood and establishing the work of
God upon the earth. The splendor of this
vision, the importance of its message; its
acceptance and the fidelity with which it
has been received and delivered to mankind
has established communication between the
heavens and the earth, the diffusion of
light and intelligence of which this event
was the center, has been the influence and
impelling force working among the nations,
and upon mankind to bring about the mar-
velous events which mark the past century,
as far beyond all others in the uplifting of
humanity.
	We boast of great achievements, flights of
science, and the control of unseen forces.
Discoveries, developments, inventions al-
most innumerable, in medicine, in surgery,
in steam and in electricity, that is not only
lighting, but in a sense moving the world,

[Column 2]
together with the mechanical devices and
hidden forces controlled by man’s activity
through ingenuity and skill. And as yet we
have not reached the goal of expectation,
earth still has secrets to unfold, the dawn of
light has come, but not the full blaze of
mid-day. Man has discovered, invented,
and with magnificent power achieved
marvelous success, but the zenith of control
of unseen forces has not yet been reached.
There are still heights to climb, labyrinths
to search, the lamps that man has lighted
are but the stars of promise, the bud of ex-
pectation has not yet come to flower, and
yet we have had many surprises, through
the ingenuity of man, led by the faint light
that is penetrating the darkness of the
world.
	Great improvements have been made in
music, one of the divinest of all gifts, in the
instruments, in tone, composition and exe-
cution, until one almost feels we have
reached the highest point in instrumental
skill and in the cultivation of the human
voice. In education, along all lines there
has been marvelous progress, in art, too, in
its most intricate details, even though we
do go back to the Greeks for models. Paris
and Berlin have come to the front in this
last century with masterpieces that reveal
genius in painting and sculpture that awak-
en the highest anticipations for the future.
	Improvements and developments in the
subtle science of psychology, in the unfold-
ing of wonderful mental powers of activity,
until one stands aghast as it were at that
which is yet to be, and one can imagine the
time coming, when we shall see as we are
seen and know as we are known.
	Great advancement in astronomical ob-
servation and improvement in telescopes by
which heavenly bodies are made more tan-
gible or are brought nearer to our vision,
though not close enough to discern much of
the nature of them, but many discoveries
of stars of less and lesser magnitude and
comets have appeared at intervals and since
the advent of the Prophet Joseph, ten or
twelve comets have been visible.
	Then we must remember that we have
had wars and battles and great losses, the
anti-slavery movement causing the secession
of the South, volcanoes producing destruc-
tion and consternation, the great war of the
Crimea, in 1854 5 when we first heard of
voluntary nurses, Florence Nightingale, who
led the way and Clara Barton of the Red
Cross, both of whom are still living, and the
awakening among women, which had its
origin in the movement made by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith in organizing the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
which opened a new era for womankind the
world over, the Woman’s Right’s agitation
came soon after, the first great convention
being held in Seneca Falls, New York, July
1848.
	We are in the habit of saying in the days
of our grandmothers, when everything was
done by hand and in the home, and really
it has been almost wholly in the nineteenth
century we have had factories for weaving,
spinning and dyeing, and the primitive
methods were so dear that people objected
to machine made articles; sewing machines,
typewriters and such modern devices, all
labor-saving inventions, and presses run by
steam, typesetting; wondrous things have
come to pass that were never dreamed of
in our philosophy. The first steamer on the
Hudson river 1807, first steamer to cross the
Atlantic 1819; we travel now not only on
the surface of the land and water, by steam-

[Column 3]
ship, automobile and railroad, but beneath
the rivers through tunnels, under the sea in
submarines and through the air by aero-
planes.
	We have electric light, heat and cooking
thereby, gas and kerosine, oil was considered
wonderful as an improvement over tallow
candles and whale oil of early years in the
century, even lucifer matches were only in-
vented in 1829, people ask what did we do
before; long ago there was the lodestone and
the rubbed amber, and no one could have
been made (to believe) that out of this, or
from this could have come the wireless tele-
phone, the working of electric signals by
electro magnets—electric signalling or tele-
graph. In 1835 and 1837 the first needle
telegraph was set up in England, but its
utility first publicly demonstrated in 1842,
now we have the telephone, phonograph,
wireless telegraphy, that goes through ocean
waves and penetrates walls of brick and
stone and compasses the world, communica-
tion above and below, and ere long the
whole earth will be girdled with wire com-
munication.
	There seems innumerable things to men-
tion, elevators instead of climbing stairs,
and in building, instead of primitive meth-
ods, there is steel and concrete construction,
sky scrapers, though not yet in this age have
men attempted a tower of Babel to reach
the heavens.
	In summing up the story of the century
we must consider the expansion of the na-
tions. Great Britain under Victoria (and
Edward VII) with Palmerston, Peel, Glad-
stone, Disraeli, and Salisbury, in its colon-
ies—East India, Australasia, Africa and the
Canadas, and its control of Egypt has be-
come the mightiest empire in the world.
	The consolidation affected by Victor
Emanuel, Cavour, Garibaldi, of the petty
kingdoms of Italy and the domination of
the state and the pretended? rule of the
Catholic Church has made of United Italy
a kingdom of beneficence to its people free-
ing millions who are today the laborers
of all nations.
	The Franco-Prussian War created the Ger-
man empire, uniting the kingdoms and
principalities of the Teutonic race in a
nation of the first rank in power, civilization
and productiveness.
	The inspiration of that strong man Diaz,
has made Mexico a nation of influence, an
instrument to bring about the purposes of
God concerning the descendants of Lehi.
	The islands of the sea have not escaped
the influence of the Spirit of God brought
into the world by Himself, and so Japan has
become a power in civilization and the Phil-
ippines a land of freedom.
	The last vestige of the rule of kings has
been driven from the Land of Promise, in
the final expulsion of Spain and its hateful
Romanism, leaving Cuba free.
	The development of our own country, its
expansion by acquiring territory from sea
to sea, and finally in creating free states
from all its territory, the overthrow of
slavery and unification of the states through
the baptism of blood in the civil war, the
development of the West with all its won-
derful natural riches; the wise exercise of
power that a free people could not help but
acquire, by the practice of industry, and the
arts, has brought our glorious country to the
fore-front of the nations, the leader of
them all. Greatest in all that makes nations
great.
	In the education of the people in almost
every country tremendous progress has been


[Column 1]
made. Systems of school from the kinder-
garten [-]p to the splendid state and national
universities and the technical schools and
colleges for training the youth in every de-
partment of art and science, and all the
profe[-]sions have grown to such perfection
that, taken together with the museums and
librari[-]s and occasional exhibitions, it is
now possible to receive instruction with ill-
ustrations upon any subject that the mind
has any conception of; and trained and
skillful workmen to lead the unskilled are
supplied for every field of human endeavor.
	In literature it is only necessary to men-
tion a few names to indicate the superlative
place it has attained and to challenge com-
parison with any other age of letters. Among
English-speaking peoples there was Scott
and Byron, Thackeray, George Eliot, Jane
Austen, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Felicia
Hemans, Dinah Muloch Craik, Disraeli,
Dickens, Wilkie Collins, George Sands,
Lord Tennyson, William Black, Kipling,
Marie Corelli, William Watson, Dobson,
Stevenson, Barrie and Gilbert Parker. And
in America Thoreau, Wordsworth, Cooper,
Longfellow, Lowell, Holmes, Whittier, Mar-
garet Fuller, Bancroft, Hawthorne, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa Alcott, Bryant,
Motley, Emerson, Greeley, Dana, Curtis,
Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Stedman, Howells,
Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Eugene Field,
Whitman, Julia Ward Howe and the endless
list of clever story tellers.
	The making of books and magazines and
newspapers of quality and in quantities
never dreamed of marks the century just
past as more than all that had gone before
put together.
	In science the discoveries and inventions
of electricity and the power of steam and
gas have multiplied the productivity of
human labor a thousand-fold, and made
possible transportation by land and water
and the air as of all things; and communi-
cation quick, accurate, instantaneous of all
thought between peoples and nations. Think
of the wireless telegraphy, the electric light,
the telephone, the airship, the automobile,
photography, and photo-printing. What
marvels they are: and yet they were unknown
upon the earth when the Lord spoke to Jos-
eph the Prophet, as were the steam-engine
and the power printing-press.
	In religion, the influence of the truth,
though not recognized by the sectarian
teachers, has broken down creeds, and set
the people adrift in a world of unbelief. For
faith there has come tolerance among them,
for dogma, doubt, for bigotry, the higher
criticism—all these are slippery stones on
which the religionists of the day are crossing
the stream of life, not knowing where they
are going, nor why they are here.
FINALE.
	In the midst of it all the work of the
Lord goes on apace, keeping abreast with
the first in every good word and work. No
invention for the welfare of men, [-]o truth
for their instruction, no benevolence, no
charity, no refinement, no culture, no virtue
known among them, that is not cherished
and approved among us.
	Over all that the world has however, and
beyond all price, we have the authority to
teach salvation, the ordinances to save, the
power to bless. We are destined to lead
the race of men, and our childr[-]n to behold
the triumph of truth over error, the reign
of righteousness and the glory of the Lord
ruling upon the earth, when the kingdom

[Column 2]
and the greatness thereof under the whole
heavens, shall be given unto the sons of
God forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
		SCHOOL GRADUATES.
GIVEN BY ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
	Mrs. Cannon opened her remarks by re-
citing the amusing and unique dialogue be-
tween Sir Anthony Absolute and Mrs. Mala-
prop from Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s clever
comedy—The Rivals, concerning what a
woman ought to know, afterwards stating
that Mrs. Malaprop’s description logically
considered, was just about what a woman
was allowed to know something like half
a century since. Continuing, she further
said; “’Tis true that a little over fifty years
ago the idea prevailed that education for
girls, except to a limited extent, of a super-
ficial character, was a waste of time and
money, true there are along the centuries in-
dividual cases where women broke the
thrall of darkest ignorance and cast a lus-
trous light along the ages The fair Diotima
was the teacher of Socrates, and Hypatia
expounded the mysteries of the Neo-Plato-
nic philosophy to the young Greeks, and
many learned women held positions and
chairs in the universities of southern Europe.
Later, Madam de Stael, George Sand, George
Eliot and Harriet Martineau. Coming to
our own beloved land we have Margaret
Fuller Ossili and Lydia Maria Child. Oh
yes there are legions of names of women of
high intellectual culture; famous in history
for some individual act or influence or
friendship, but they did nothing for the
masses.
	Royal princesses received education be-
cause of the high position they were destined
to occupy, and the greatest advancement in
the nations has been under the rule of wo-
men. Notwithstanding these things equal
education for the sexes among the masses
has had a hard struggle, and even today,
though there have been many victories, the
battle is not yet won.
	Among the first great institutions to re-
ceive women were the medical colleges, and
today all over the land we have women
teachers, lawyers, editors, artists, and praise
the Lord, women doctors.	*	*	*
	The thinkers of today tell us of vibra-
tions of thought that pass along the earth,
but we know that it is only the inspired
ones who feel them, and it is a pleasing
thought to me that the divine message to
our Prophet that inspired him to begin this
work—The Relief Society for women
through his power, was sent vibrating along
the ways and loosened the bondage and
opened the portals just as other beaatiful
truths of the Gospel have been sent forth,
and the world’s philosophers and teachers
have received them and promulgated them
for the good of humanity.	*	*	*
	You may ask what was the need of this
organization. What the reason? Great
changes, great movements such as this are
not brought about unless conditions demand
them and conditions demanded the emanci-
pation of women for the broader assistance
of her efforts and labors among the human
race.	*	*	*	*	*
	Through this organized effort the sick and
the needy, the aged and the orphan have
been cared for outside of alms houses and
asylums, and as our efforts become more
united and our dreams are realized, the

[Column 2]
communities where we labor will be the
great examples for the world. For by edu-
cating the people in the true ways of living,
by training mankind to better keep the com-
mandments of God in regard to the care of
the human body and the mortal soul that
for a time is in his own keeping, we may
eliminate disease and suffering from our
midst.
	There are two professions that so far as I
know have never been denied to women no
matter how dense the understanding nor
how ignorant the intellect, and yet the two
that in my opinion should demand the
highest intellectual training possible —
motherhood and nursing. It is along these
lines of work that the Relief Society have
many years been teaching. Countless seeds
of thought and tireless hours of labor have
the mothers of this organization bequeathed
to the people. There are no public records,
no statements of the thousands of kind-
nesses and comforts performed by these 
good women, only in the Lamb’s book of life
is the story told. It has been a popular
belief that nature meant all women to be
mothers and nurses. Perhaps nature did
just as she intended all rose bushes to bear
roses, but compare the wayside straggling
bush with its little, fragrant flower that wilts
and falls to pieces as soon as it is plucked,
to the beautiful bush of the garden culti-
vated and pruned and watered by the care-
ful gardener, and behold the unfolding leaf
by leaf of a hardy flower of richest color,
shape and perfume, just so the intelligent
mother and nurse is a better teacher and
care taker.
	Just as I think every nurse should hope to
be a mother so I think every mother should
prepare to be a nurse, and the more intelli-
gent one is, the better qualified is she for
those important duties.
	When the girls of our great hospital re-
ceived their certificates saying that their
training was sufficient and now they could
go out into the cities and the homes of the
people, pursue the work they had been so
admirably and thoroughly taught in that
splendidly equipped institution, I thought
of you, our Relief Society nurses, who like
them in a way are about to start among the
people, not like them however with a fin-
ished course behind you and a perfect free-
dom to carve out for yourselves your way,
because your contract holds you yet to a
duty to perform, in the performance of
which you will gather knowledge and ex-
perience beyond any anticipation you could
possibly hold. You will not be co-temporary
with the hospital graduates, for they demand
a price commensurate with the training so
hardly earned, while you having only as it
were finished the first grade under your able
instructor, go forth now under a new super-
visor to learn and to do in the ways of
charity. Your earnings will not be a fair
measure of your training, nor will they profit
you much only as you earn the reward of
the true and conscientious woman, who for-
getting self helps to build up others. And
yet your work is more necessary and your
calling most honorable.
	You will have the happiness of laboring
in a purely disinterested spirit and so be
able to do for love what money could neither
procure nor reward. Do not ever think your
education in this regard is finished, but in
your ministrations take advantage of every
opportunity to learn and study this beauti-
ful science of nursing, just as a man might
study that which he truly and ardently
wishes to understand. The homes where


you will be called to work according to your
contract, are not the homes of the rich
where, if you don’t find everything you want
at hand it is only a matter of ordering it
through the telephone, but perhaps homes
where you may not find anything, homes
absolutely void of all conveniences and
necessaries, then the ingenuity and artifice
Mrs. Malaprop advises, might come to your
assistance, however don’t let trifles stand in
your way, but look around you for out of
disorder and chaos you may have to im-
provise and manufacture what you need. In
such cases take for your example the
saintly Florence Nightingale. Remember
when she reached the Crimea how wholly
without necessaries she found the hospital
camp at Scutari, and out of the rough ma-
terial around her of “boards, boxes, camp
kettles, and blundering Turks she estab-
lished laundries and kitchens,” and brought
the most perfect order out of what appeared
to be a chaotic ruin. You have not await-
ing you perhaps the glory of serving on a bat-
tlefield or under the magic order of the Red
Cross, but neither had Florence Nightingale
or Clara Barton when they first learned the
“noble art of mitigating human anguish,” it
was conditions which afterwards arose that
called them forth to their great work. When
they first studied nursing they little dreamed
of the scenes that they would witness or the
work that they would do.
	Do you know of the calls that will come
to you, they may not be national disasters,
we hope they will not be, but your ministra-
tions if faithfully performed will bring you
just as sure reward. I would admoni[-]h you
to try to make good out of everything, even
though you may be called to haunts of ig-
norance and vice, let the influence of your
own beautiful soul lift you above your sur-
roundings and be the means of scattering in-
cense around you. Out of these very circum-
stances learn a lesson. “Remember that
beautiful blind teacher, Helen Kellar, tells
us no effort we ever make to attain some-
thing beautiful is ever lost.” And after all
the secret of life is not to do what one likes
but to like that which one has to do. My
dear friends, you have gained through your
training and your study a little knowledge.
The poet Pope says: “A little knowledge is
a dangerous thing,” which is doubtless true,
so don’t be satisfied with a little knowledge
but all through your lives bear in mind this
truth that “knowledge is power,” and lose
not one moment of time to learn and to im-
prove. Don’t you know one never finishes
school, we only complete a grade, and all
along the way we are but the children of
that Master, whose divine message was love.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Al-
pine Stake convened April 29th at Linden,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Opened by singing “O Ye Mountains High.”
Prayer by Bishop Cullimore. Singing “Love
at Home,” Roll called, showing every ward
represented. President Standring opened
the conference with a few words of welcome
and appreciation of the large attendance.
Eight wards were reported by their presidents
each in good condition and working order.
	President Stephen L. Chipman compli-
mented the sisters on their reports, wished
that the same good report could be given
of all the Associations of our Stake. You
sisters can be of great assistance in swell-

[Column 2]
ing the members at our Sacrement meetings.
The Stake Presidency do appreciate the work
you sisters are doing. Prayed the Lord to
bless and and help us in the future as He has
done in the past,
	“I Know that my Redeemer Lives” was
beautifully rendered by Mary Stewart.
	Sister Annie Hindley, a returned mission-
ary was introduced, and spoke a short time.
Told us of the Relief Society work in the
Northern States, gave us some of her exper-
iences and bore a strong testimony to the
truth. Singing “We Thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Benediction by counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned for noon hour and
the officers and teachers of Linden Ward
served the two hundred people present with
a delicious lunch.
	Reconvened at 1:30 p. m. with Counselor
Annie C. Hindley in charge. Singing “Guide
Us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer, Robert
Thorne of Linden; Singing “Count Your
Blessings.”
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs was thankful for
the privilege of attending this large confer-
ence and gave some good instructions to
mothers with regard to the care of their
children.
	E, J. T. Roberts spoke a few moments on
the lessons prepared for the wards.
	Bishop Cullimore of Linden heartily wel- 
comed the Relief Society Conference to his
ward. Thankful for the good work and in-
fluence of the sisters of his ward. Advised
the sisters to use their influence with the hus-
bands to perform the duties placed upon
them. Invoked the blessings of the Lord on
every one present.
	Preident S. L. Chipman again occupied
a short time. Spoke on the first principles
of the Gospel and encouraged the sisters to
take hold of their lessons in earnest, so as to
be able to give reasons and proofs for our
belief.
	President Rebecca Standring said “It is
hardly possible to stand before such an aud-
ience, especially Mothers in Israel, and faith-
ful workers, without feeling an inspiration
come over one, and yet I feel inadequate
to the task. There is no end to the labors
of the sisters, and the more we do the more
we will be capable of doing. This is only a
school. Our labors here are nothing com-
pared with what they will be in the Spirit
World. I desire to continue to labor in the
cause of God as long as Father wants me to.
	God bless you my dear sisters and help us
all to honor the Priesthood and live day by
day worthy of the great blessings we are re-
cieving.
	A lesson on Faith was beantifully given
by Sister Esther Kirk.
Brother Wm. Southwick of Lehi spoke a
short time. Bishop Cullimore presented the
names of Jennie W. Johnson and Lizzie M.
Cullimore as counselors to in the Relief So-
ciety to President Cordelia Thorne. They
were sustained and set apart.
	Singing “Doxology”. Prayer by Sister
Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Number present, 232.
			SINA CHIPMAN, Sec’y.


IN MEM[-]RIAM.
	A tribute of love to the memory of Mary F.
Shelby, our beloved sister and co-worker, who
passed peacefully away, April 2, 1910
	She was born in Attica, Indiana. She was the
only one of her father's household who embraced
the Gospel, and like many others sacrificed home
and friends for the sake of gathering to the land


of the Saints. It can truly be said of our deceased
sister that she was a noble woman full of faith
and always willing and ready to give a helping
hand to those in need.
	Although afflicted with cancer of a malignant
form, knowing that death was inevitable, she al-
ways wore a smile and acknowledged the hand of
the Lord in her darkest hours.
	With the departure of Sister Shelby from this
scene of action, Randolph Relief Society has lost
a wise counselor and diligent worker. She was
a minute woman, ever ready to obey the advice
of those placed over her. She held the position
of president of the Y. L. M. I. A. for some time
filling it with dignity and honor to herself, always
cultivating the spirit of love and kindness, which
made her duties a pleasure along with those con-
nected with her. Latterly she was chosen coun-
selor to Celia Spencer, president of the Relief So-
ciety and this office she held until her death.
	There are scenes in this drama of life that are
hard to look upon and harder for we short-sighted
mortals to understand; we gaze as in a dream at
the grim reaper advancing upon our loved ones
with open sickle to gather them into the harvest
of death But still in looking back on the years
that we have spent together, the sunshine and
shadows, the memory of them is a precious treas-
ure and a sweet remembrance of the past.
	Sister Shelby leaves four sons and two daugh-
ters and a loving, devoted husband, besides a
host of friends to mourn her demise.
We must not say our sister’s lost
She has only gone before;
And we will meet again I kuow
On yonder shining shore.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas: God in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home to another field of labor our sister, causing
us to mourn;
	Whereas: we feel it a sore trial to part with one
we so loved and esteemed, as we did Sister Shelby
who always performed her work with an untiring
devotion,
	Therefore be it resolved; while we mourn over
the present loss, we rejoice in the remembrance
of past associations and in the assurance of a re-
union yet to come,
	Resolved; that we emulate her noble character,
her gentle deportment and devotion to her family
and home,
	Therefore, we resolve to remember her as one
of God's noblewomen and a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint,
	Therefore, be it resolved in behalf of the Ran-
dolph Relief Society: We extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved husband, sons and
daughters in the loss of a kind mother and loving
wife.
	Be it resolved: that a copy of these resolutions
be placed on the records of the Randolph Relief
Society, also be printed in the home paper, and
that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
CELIA SPENCER,
LOUISA GRAY,
LIBBIE NEBEKER.
Committee.


A REMARKABLE WOMAN.
	MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.
			(Concluded.)
	Brother and Sister Morrison started on
their journey for Utah in the spring of
1856, via Omaha from St. Louis.  They
were in camp, living in tents, at Omaha six
weeks waiting for the company to get ready.
On the 26th of June the company of sixty
wagons started on the journey to cross the 
plains, Captain Canute Peterson in charge.
Sister Morrison testifies that he was a wise
and most efficient leader.  During the jour-
ney their cattle stampeded five times. A
young man from Denmark was accidentally
run over and instantly killed.  It was the 
only accident upon the journey.
	On the 14th of July, a great herd of buff-
alo passed through the camp. It was a 
great sight and created considerable fear
and consternation, but no accident to any
one, and the Saints felt that the preserving


[Column 1]
care of the Lord had protected them and
they were very thankful. 
	The company arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 23, 1856, all in good health and
glad to meet with many dear friends with
whom they were acquainted before leaving
England. Brother Morrison purchased a
house and lot in the Fifth ward in Salt Lake
City and they were soon comfortably situat-
ed, as they had brought many necessary
comforts with them from England. 
	On the 28th of November Brother Morris-
on was engaged to take charge of a mill
which was being built at Farmington by
Samuel W. Richards, Joseph Cain, and
Elias Smith; Sister Morrison and husband
felt that they had much to be thankful for
in the land of their adoption. Not long
after being settled in their new home in
Zion Sister Morrison gave birth to a son,
who was named William G. C. Morrison,
the event occurred Dec. 9, 1856, and there
was great joy over the birth of this boy, they
felt surely the Lord had been mindful of
them and life now seemed more than ever
before worth living. 
	On the 13th of March, 1857, another
great blessing came to them. The oppor-
tunity to go to the Endowment House and
receive the blessings there and to be married
for time and all eternity, sealed at the holy
altar, by one holding the authority of the
Priesthood. 
	The next year a great change came into
their lives for the Lord revealed to them the
principle of plural marriage and they accep-
ted it in the true sense and took another
wife into the household. Sister Morrison,
like many other women among the Latter-
day Saints, made this sacrifice willingly for
righteousness sake, firmly believing it to be
a correct and holy order of matrimony; the
name of the young woman was Lucy Ether-
ington, and they dwelt together in unity. 
	It was very soon after this momentous
change in the family that Brother Morrison
was called to join others of the brethren in
Echo Canyon, at the time when Johnston’s
army were coming to Utah, a memorable
event in the history of the Territory, the
word was that the army was coming to ex-
terminate the Mormons and devastate their
homes and belongings. 
	Sister Morrison with that supreme courage
that animated the women of those eventful
days, was equal to the occasion and passed
through the trying ordeal of leaving her
home and making the sacrifice required in
going with the “Move” south as the people
were determined the scenes of the past
should not be re-enacted—the orders given
were to leave the city and Sister Morrison
without her husband prepared for the emer-
gency. 
	Sister Morrison says: “Early in April I
was ready for the journey, taking with me
my husband’s second wife and my little son
Willie, with our provisions and clothing and
bedding to supply our wants, leaving every-
thing we owned behind, trusting to a kind
Providence to open the way for us to recover
what we had left. We traveled one week
and arrived at Ephraim, Sanpete Co. (this
was in April, 1858) we met with a very wel-
come reception from the people in the Fort,
for the settlement was then in its infancy. 
There was not a house to be seen from the
time we left Nephi until we came to Fort
Ephraim, so I made up my mind to remain
there feeling that was the place the Lord
wanted me to go to, as my husband was
out in the mountains to meet the army and
I did not know when he could return, there-

[Column 2]
fore I had to assume all responsibility. The
people in the country towns were very desti-
tute of clothing, and as I had a plentiful
supply I bartered clothing and blankets for
the thihgs which I needed; I rented a house,
and paid rent three months in advance. 
Next I bought a city lot and had it plowed
and grain put in, then bought a cow, a pig
and chickens, flour, meat, butter, eggs, soap. 
Every one treated me with respect and
kindness and whenever I saw a chance to
do a kind act I took pleasure in doing it,
thereby gaining for myself many friends
who have been and are very dear to me to
this very day, it was some time in June be-
fore my husband came to us not knowing
where we were, he came south and inquired
at every settlement, until he reached Nephi,
there he was told that a few families had
gone to Sanpete, and there he directed his
steps and found hia family all well, with
plenty to eat and drink and a comfortable
house to live in, all of which was obtained
by obedience to the commandments of the
Lord given through his servant Brigham
Young.”
	The spring of 1859, on the 13th of March
a daughter was born to these goodly parents
they named her Williamina Henrietta; the
little one greatly rejoiced their hearts and
seemed a recompense for all their trials. 
Later the same spring it was deemed exped-
ient to organize a new settlement, a little
south-west; accordingly, Mt. Pleasant was
organized and settled and thither the Mor-
risons removed, thinking it would be a bet-
ter location for a family. After removing to
Mt. Pleasant, Brother Morrison was appoint-
ed Clerk of the town, also the Postmaster,
naturally being a man of fine education and
of good ability, he was called to fill impor-
tant positions of trust; subsequently he was
appointed assessor and collector. 
	The Morrison family were among the very
foremost in the new settlement they had
helped to make, as time went on there were
trials and difficulties to meet and obstacles
to overcome, but through patience and per-
severance they were able to endure all things
and to keep the faith for which they had
made such willing sacrifice. In course of
time Brother Morrison increased his family,
taking two more wives, making quite a large
family although it was a very happy one. 
Sister Morrison was the soul of kindness
and generosity and was a mother to all in
her numerous household. 
	Brother Morrison prospered in business
and in course of time built a more com-
modious home which was known as Bon-
Accord-cottage. 
	On the 15th of February, 1863, another
daughter was born to Brother and Sister
Morrison and they named her Christina
she was a very superior girl and was very
finely educated and her mother said of her:
“she was surely the comfort and joy of my
later years.”
	In the spring of 1855 Brother Morrison
was called to lead a company of fifty famil-
ies to make a new settlement in Sevier
County; the town was named Richfield, and
he was the first Probate Judge of that
county, which office he held for five years

[Column 3]
in succession, and he was also appointed
Postmaster of the new town, and kept the
office for many years and he held other offi-
ces of honor and dignity. 
	William Morrison died in 1889, honored
and respected by all who knew him, leaving
a numerous posterity to labor in the interests
of Zion. At the time of his decease he was
68 years and eleven months old and he was
sincerely mourned and greatly missed by the
community in which he had lived and la-
bored for so many years. 
	Sister Morrison was a strong-minded wo-
man and bore the loss of her husband brave-
ly, and with the true courage and hope of
a Saint of God. 
	On May 11, 1868, Sister Morrison was
called and set apart to preside over the Re-
lief Society of Mount Pleasant, Utah, and
filled the position not only with great dig-
nity and credit, but her charity and mag-
nanimity were boundless, the people of that
vicinity never tire of recounting instances of
her great love and humility and ready as-
sistance for the needy and distressed often
from her personal resources. She was the very
embodiment of that “charity that never
faileth.”
	It is stated that over one thousand of
those who have died and are buried in the
Mt. Pleasant cemetery were dressed and
laid out for burial by her without charge. 
What a record of service for others, truly
she went about doing good, and no doubt
she will receive an abundant welcome into
the courts of glory. The surviving children
of Sister Margaret Morrison are William G. 
C. Morrison of Monroe, Sevier Co., Utah, and
Williamina H. Erickson of Mt. Pleasant,
Sanpete County. Sister Erickson is the
president of the Relief Society in North San-
pete Stake and is an able and efficient pre-
siding officer. A younger daughter Chris
tina, wife of Judge Ferdinand Erickson died
in Mt. Pleasant a few years ago, leaving two
very beautiful daughters. Sister Morrison
leaves 1S grand-children and 3 great-grand-
children.				E. B. WELLS.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth, they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
“‘Blessd are they who do his bidding,!’ cries
	The angel day and night;
“They shall find abundant entrance—they
	Shall walk with Him in white!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	It would seem that there is an inference
to be drawn from two simple facts. First,
militarist, the employer of cheap and of
child labor, the bribed politician, the con-
temner of education, the liquor interest, the
brothel interest, every interest that sets its
face against reform, from reform of the milk
supply to disarmament of nations, is op-
posed to the political liberty of woman.
Second, the biologist, the political econo-
mist, the statesmau, the sociologist, the eu
genist, the physician, the educator, the stu-
dent, and the moralist, are to be found in
ever increasing number, advocates of her en-
franchisement.—Woman's Journal, Boston.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY LADIES' READY TO WEAR GARMENTS
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. TRY US

