Vol. 38.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1909.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Reminiscence.........................S. E. Russell	33
Resume Sixth Triennial Transactions.............	33
Relief Society Stake Reports: Alpine.............	34
	Ogden.....................................................	38
	Nebo.......................................................	39
Autobiography......................Nancy M. Tracy	39
Mrs. Adeline F. Fitz, President-General 
	Daughters of the Revolution...................	37
Advance Notice..............................................	38
Hentry Browne Blackwell.................E. B. W.	35
D. R. Toasts....................................................	35
In Memoriam..................................................	38
Our Founder-General......................................	38
Notes and News..............................................	40
Editorial:—President Smith’s Birthday..........	36
	Thanksgiving..........................................	36
	Dr. Talmage’s New Book.......................	36
	President-General’s Visit........................	36
	Editorial Notes........................................	37
Poetry:—The Battle Hymn of the Mothers....	33


THE BATTLE HYMN OF THE MOTHERS.
	BY BERTIE KATE SHIPLEY.
Our eyes shall see the glory of “the coming of the
	Lord,”
When woman is exalted and to her place re-
	stored,
And her hand shall cast the ballot that is strong-
	er than the sword.
While the hosts are marching on.

				Chorus.
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
		The mothers are marching on.

There’s a mighty host advancing with a fluttering
	of wings,
Led by the fire-born spirit that through all dark-
	ness sings,
And the sound of myriad voices through the
	heavenly arches rings,
While the hosts are marching on.

To this earthly throne of justice, with a slow and
	steady beat,
Move the mothers of all ages, with their worn and
	weary feet;
They are “sounding forth the trumpet that shall
	never sound retreat,”
While the hosts are marching on.

The heralds swift are coming with the message
	from all lands
That laws shall now be measured in the scale of
	mother hands,
Hear, oh, hear, ye people! Welcome Justice as
	she stands,
Where the hosts are marching on.

When the father and the mother march equal in
	the right,
And the little children follow in the pathway of
	this light,
Then Peace shall wave her banner and banish all
	the night,
As God shall lead them on.

Sing, oh, sing, ye people! Shout Hosanna with
	the throng!
Let the voices of the nation bear the glorious
	notes along,
And sound the joyful measures of the mothers’
	battle song,
While the hosts are marching on!

Woman’s Journal, Mass.


No faith is to be given to the stories about
suffragettes biting and scratching police-
men. They are malicious fabrications.
When American audiences come face to
face with Mrs. Pankhurst, they will see
whether she is a woman to do or to encour-
age such things.—Ex.


[Column 1]
		A REMINISCENCE.
	Colonia Chuichupa, Nov. 3, 1909.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	DEAR SISTER:—In looking over the years
of our lives we find our memory pictures
among our most precious treasures, sunny
pictures, rainbow tinted, in the realms of
childhood and youth. pictures shadowy with
pain and anguish, tear-stained and pitiful,
yet, oh, how we cling to them through the
days and years that come and go.
	To my stories of such pictures, many
more were added during our visit of the last
six months to kindred and friends in Utah,
and in visiting and passing to and fro in old
familiar places, how many thoughts come
to me, as a flock of sweet singing birds, and
scenes long hidden in the midst of years
appear fresh and bright before me, I need
not tell to you who know so well, what
sacred memories dwell and cling around our
Temple block, and the old walls that shield
it from curious, prying eyes. I am not a
curio hunter, but I brought a piece of the
old time wall home with me to Mexico, for
it is the preface of a book of memory to
me. One day as I stood on the southeast
corner looking at the beautiful new Deseret
News Building, I rememhered one night I
stood there long ago, and watched the old
time Council House fall beneath merciless
flames that left but a smoking pile of ruins,
and then the art gallery of Brother Charles
Savage a victim, too, of the same fierce
element. I can see him walking about amid
the ruins as he did that morning looking
upon the fruits of years of anxious care and
toil swept away in an hour, yet he was calm
and still had a smile and kindly word for
the friends who gathered there that day.
It was a favorite place of mine, for I loved
to look at the pictures and books there.
Once I remember, as I stood before a beau-
tiful picture, choking back the tears it
called forth, he came and said, “Why look
so long upon this sad picture? Here is a
beautiful, more cheery one, look at it.” I
have always remembered the lesson given
in those few words, and how the sunshine
of his great heart was so freely shared with
all who came within its reach. And still as
I stood there, the stately Templeton faded
away and I saw the plain, white home of
Brother Wells, the “Daniel” of the Latter-
days, and I remember one day when he was
weighed in the balance and not fonnd want-
ing. And again, as I looked upon the 
monument of our Brigham Young, with
those grand representatives of pioneer days
grouped around him, they became living
beings to me. Oh, the pictures are many
that hang around that monument. I seem
to hear his voice, as I heard it first in the
old adobe tabernacle, the bowery, and later
the grand new tabernale, still the admira-
tion and wonder of all who see it. Yes, I
seem to hear again his words of encourage-
ment, of counsel and warning, and words of
mighty faith in the great work of God in
these latter-days, and his testimony of the
divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith; and I saw him at rest from his lab-
ors that day when all who knew him

[Column 2]
mourned the loss of a true and faithful
friend and leader. One visit to Ensign with
a company of Temple workers, the words of
inspiration spoken then, with a most pleas-
ant social gathering at the home of a sister
on our return, is something to linger long in
the memory of that little party. Then
again, the reunions of the remaining mem-
bers of the Fifteenth Ward choir, and with
their children, renewing ties of love and
friendship of the spring and summer seasons
of life, to feel again the warm haud clasp
after years of separation was a joy unspeak-
able to me. It was hard for me to go to the
last gathering at Saltair, for I knew it would
be our last meeting. for years, if ever again
in life; but there were fond remembrances of
the past around the table spread with all good
things, and looking out on the beautiful
lake. We were young again, and time’s
finger marks were all swept away. Again we
watched the sun sinking in the waters,
leaving a golden glow upon the tiny wave-
lets, and here I feel to pray heaven’s choic-
est blessings rest upon those who helped to
make our visit so pleasant for us. Of our
days in the Temple I may not write, they
are too sacred to me. When sometimes the
veil of mortality seemed drawn away, and we
could feel the presence of our loved one on
the other side. Again, may God’s blessings
rest upon the faithful workers there, and may
the sweet spirit of peace and love found
within its walls never depart from us.
	Now dear old City Creek claims a re-
membrance, for it sang to me the “Old
Songs” of happy boys and girls, and I
laughed this summer when I saw it
burst the bonds set by man, rushing
onward to the great lake, for it seemed
to me a type of the great Fountain
of Truth flowing on to the shores of eternity,
while the puny arm of man is raised in vain
to stay its progress.
	Do I weary you, dear friend, with my
wandering thoughts? For fear of doing so,
I will close with a prayer for our beautiful
city and her speedy deliverance from all
that would mar or dim her glory.
	As ever, your friend and sister,
						S. E RUSSELL.


RESUME SIXTH TRIENNIAL TRANSAC-
			TIONS.
	The Sixth Triennial session of the Nation-
al Council of Women of the United States
was held in Seattle, Washington, July 14-16,
1909, with Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, Presi-
dent, presiding. In the absence of both
secretaries, Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller was ap-
pointed to act as Recording Secretary dur-
ing the session. The first meeting was held
in the Auditorium of the A. Y. P. Exposi-
tion and was an executive session for mem-
bers only. Minutes of the Union City Exec-
utive were read and discussed. Mrs. Stev-
ens read report of committee on revision of
constitution, but after some discussion the
report was referred to same committee for
further revision, was to be referred to execu-
tive organizations and complete report made
at some subsequent meeting The
names of Mrs Emmeline B. Wells and Mrs,


[Column 1]
Susa Young Gates were approved as Quin-
quennial Patrons, explanation made that a
Quinquennial Patron was from one Quin-
quennial term to another, and an Inter-
national Patron was for life, but in
both cases names must be approved
by the Council to which the appli-
cants belonged. The name of Rev. Anna
H. Shaw was presented for International
Patron by Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery in be-
half of the National Woman’s Suffrage
Association, and was unanimously approved.
The election of officers resulted in the fol-
lowing: President, Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister;
Vice-Pres., Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Cor.
Sec., Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, Rec. Sec’y,
Mrs. Emma E. Bower M. D.; Treasurer, Mrs.
M. Josie Nelson. Mrs. Sewall reported the
transactions of the Quinquennial period
while she was International President, were
ready for distribution and could be per-
chased for seventy-five cents a volnme, or
one dollar and fifty cents for both, and
urged all to send in their names to her. The
reports of various committees were read and
approved in Executive Session. Report on
Entertainment of Foreign Delegates read,
and a vote of thanks given the committee
for their work. Report of Treasurer being
printed was referred to auditing committee,
who after examination of accounts reported
accounts found correct and report was ac-
cepted. Report of Press, Local Council,
Catechism Education read and recommend-
ation of the chairman on Education made in
Union City, was reaffirmed. Committee on
Charities and Philanthrophy recommended a
delegate to national Conference of Charities
be again appointed, also that a special
committee be appointed to investigate the
matter of “Old Age Pensions,” both of
which were adopted. Report of meeting of
International Council made by Mrs. Barrett,
Proxy for the President, and was accepted
with much applause.
	Resolutions Committee reaffirmed the
resolutions adopted at last executive meet-
ing, thanks to all hosts and hostesses all of
which were adopted at this meeting with
the additional proviso that the thanks of
the Council for the efforts and kindness
shown by Mrs. Pitt Trimble and Mrs. Mar-
ion Baxter should be engrossed. Bill of
one hundred dollars for printing the pro-
grams was allowed. All unfinished busi-
ness referred to incoming officers, after vot-
ing the expenses of the President and
treasurer should be paid.
	The public meetings were held the first
day in the Exposition Auditorium and was
in the nature of a reception to the foreign
delegates. Welcome was extended by the
Consuls of Norway, France, Germany, Italy,
and England, and responses were given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Hon. Pres. Inter-
national Council, Mrs. Emma S. Hampton,
U. S. Council, representatives from the dif-
ferent Councils. Sweet music was rendered
by beautiful singers, and the spirit of In-
ternationalism was felt by all. On Wed-
nesday, luncheon was served to the Council
and foreign friends by the Federated
Woman’s Clubs. The same day a six
o’clock dinner was given by the Exposition
officers where again good cheer and good
will prevailed. A most delightful reception
was tendered the Council on Thursday
afternoon by Mrs. J. F. Leary in honor of
her guest, our Honorary International and
National President, Mrs. Sewall. This was
greatly appreciated, and the beautiful home
and gracious hospitality will be long remem-
bered. The Federated Clubs, and Chamber

[Column 2]
of Commerce of Tacoma extended an invita-
tion to the Council to visit their city and be
their guests. The invitation was accepted
and a luncheon, drive and most cordial wel-
come was received. The Portland Press
Club extended an invitation to a reception
in the Oregon Building, but from lack of
time could not be accepted. The public
meetings were well attended, reports on or-
ganizations and work accomplished well re-
ceived. The warm hospitality shown the coun-
cil by the Ladies of the Maccabees of the
World and the Women of Woodcraft, in
their bounteous luncheons, entertaining
toasts and gracious attentions made the
courtesy more than pleasant. Seattle was
generous, hospitable and gracious, and the
Council of Women of the U. S. will long
remember its Sixth Triennial.—Com.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Lehi,
July 28, 1909. Meeting commenced at 10
a. m., President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, “Come,
come, ye Saints.” Peayer by Brother Wil-
liam Southwick. Singing,
	President Standring greeted the sisters
and announced that we had with us Sis-
ters Susan Grant and Hattie B. Harker of
the General Board. Was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake as doing well. Our
sisters are faithful and energetic in all their
work. “It is useless for me to speak of
our Stake Board, they are very dear to me,
every one of them. We have never had
any trouble since the stake was organized.
The spirit of God is here, and I pray that
His blessings may rest upon all who take
part here today.
	Four of the wards were reported by their
respective presidents, all united and willing
to do whatever they are called upon to do.
United, and have a good attendance at
their meetings and have the blessing of God.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley felt to
say a word in regard to Sister Standring,
that she is well qualified to teach and coun-
sel her sisters now as ever she was since the
came here in early days and has grown with
the work. Since this stake was organized
she has been a mother to this society, and
has the love and confidence of all the sisters.
The love and union of our sisters in the
Board is equal to that of David and Jona-
than. We have a noble set of women in
the presidents of our wards, and we as a
Stake Board love and appreciate them, for
they respond to every call that is made upon
them. Felt to encourage the counselors to
be always ready to assist the presidents in
any work required of them. Our sisters
are hard working women, they have much to
do, but we learn by doing. Felt to com-
mend the labors of our presidents, it rests
upon them to work out the lessons, and we
should be prepared to help all we can.
	Singing by the Relief Society choir,
“Beautiful Isle of Somewhere.”
	Sister Susan Grant was always pleased to
meet with the sisters, spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with Sister Standring. Told of
the severe sickness of her son, and of his
being healed through faith and prayers, and
thonght that the faith and prayers of the
sisters had much to do with his healing.
She had been President of the Stake where
she liyed for 25 years. Loved to meet with
the sisters and rejoiced in the interest the

[Column 2]
brethren take in the Relief Society. This
is a very great and important work that we
are engaged in, but if we trust in the Lord,
and do our duty we shall be able to over-
come by faith and prayer.
	Sister Harker said, “Many of you have
made sacrifices to come here today, and I
realize that I am not the one you expected
to see, but I came because I was sent, and
am in sympathy with the Society. We are
sent here with a purpose, to fulfill a mis-
sion to multiply and to bring spirits into the
world. The subject of raising children has
been avoided by the majority of women,
but if this subject had been taught when I
was raising my children, I believe that I
could have done much better. Every Relief
Society president should do all she can to
bring young mothers into this Society.
Fathers are called away from home a great
part of the time, but a true mother will
have the love and confidence of her child-
ren, her sons as well as her daughters. The
children should think that there is no place
like home, where mother is. We not only
desire our own children to be bright and
shining lights, but we can do much for our
neighbors.” Spoke of the two thonsand
young men of the Nephites, taught by their
mothers who overcame the great army of the
Lamanites. We cannot plant faith in the
hearts of our children, unless we have the
same faith in our own hearts.
	Meeting adjourned, after singing, and
benediction by Sister Sina Chipman.
	A nice lunch was served during the
recess.
	Afternoon session commenced at one p.
m. by singing, “Count your blessings.”
Prayer by Sister Emma Featherstone. Sing-
ing, “Scatter seeds of kindness.”
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board,
spoke of the duty of teachers. Wc are
proud of our sisters of the Relief Society,
What a power for good we can be when we
are united. What a great amount of good
the teachers can do if they go before our
Father in humility and ask for His aid and
assistance. Teachers should be well versed
in the principles of the Gospel, There are
many souls hungering, not for bread, but
for sympathy, for words of love and kind-
ness, and our teachers can give these. Teach
those you visit the importance of training
the children in the principles of the Gospel.
Let them feel that your visit is a joy and a
comfort to them, cheer up the sick and dis-
tressed. The teachers are a band of earnest
workers, and I pray the Lord to bless them,
and to bless us all, that we may do better
in the future than we have done in the past.
	Sister H. A. Harker said: “When I look
over this gathering I need not ask if the
sisters of Alpine Stake are interested in
Relief Society work. Your presence shows
it. Many are hungering after the seeds of
kindness, and the teachers can give this.
The sisters can pour out their troubles to
each other, but we should be very careful
and hold that confidence sacred, and never
let one word drop in the other houses that
we visit, but guard it as a secret. We de-
sire to become intelligent beings, we have
been placed upon the earth for this pur-
pose. We should not only attend our
meetings, but it is our duty to help with the
program, and be prepared to discuss the
subject in hand. Mothers must be progres-
sive. Plan our work and do it systematic-
ally, then we will have time to study and
attend to our duties. There is no excuse
for ignorance, but we progress not
so much by what we hear as by what we do.


Many through the visits of the teachers
have been led to see the condition they
were in, and turn and renew their dili-
gence in the Church. Let us do unto
others by being charitable to those who may
have taken the wrong course and try and
lead them back to the straight path.
	Singing, “Jesus, lover of my soul.” by the
Relief Society choir.
	Sister Harker spoke a few words on the
Nurse classes, advising the sisters who can
to take advantage of the offer made by Dr.
Roberts, so the people may have an oppor-
tunity of securing good nurses when in need
of them.
	Sister Susan Grant congratulated Alpine
Stake on such a good attendance. Re-
membered President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Wells to the sisters, and urged
them to subscribe for the Exponent, that
was the organ of the Society. “I feel happy 
in being here, I have enjoyed these meet-
ings immensely. In blessing others you
are blessing yourselves. I was first a teacher
in the Relief Society. We had to go a
mile and a half to every meeting in early
days, and a long distance to walk to visit
our district. Teachers should be the best
women in the Society, and be able to talk on
any principle of the Gospel. A teacher’s
office is very important. Members, too, are
important, and it is our duty to mind that
we are present to answer to roll call. I was
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
I was twelve years old when he died, and
can remember him and how he looked. The
pictures we see of him do not do him jus-
tice. He was a much finer looking man
than they show him. He was full of love
and kindness to the people. He was hunted
all his life, and his enemies thought when
they took his life that that would end Mor-
monism, but that was not the plan of God.
I know that each of our Prophets and Presi-
dents have been and are men of God, and
in the right place. The Church is beauti-
fully organized, and we must honor those
who are over us. We all have some faults
let us overlook them in others, and love and
sustain each other.”
	Brother A. J. Evans of the Stake Presi-
dency, rejoiced in the testimony of Sister
Grant, “for I honor the Pioneers, not only of
Utah, but of the Latter-day work. Spoke
on charity,” and quoted from the Book of
Mormon. Charity is the pure love of
Christ, let us think of this. You sisters
have your part to perform in the drama of
life. May the Lord bless sister Standring
in her high position, and all of you, that
you may be exalted in His kingdom. And 
I bless you in behalf of my brethren in the
name of Jesus.”
	President Standring also blessad the sis-
ters in the name of Jesus.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Clark.
Conference adjourned for three months.
			E. J. T. ROBERTS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
		(Continued from page 32.)
	He was instrumental financially in founding
the Woman’s Journal, Boston, Mass., in 1870,
and was nearly 40 years on the editorial
staff; it has been one of the most efficient
aids in woman’s work ever since its first
issue and is far the best woman’s news
paper in America. His last editorial ap-
pears in the issue of Sept. 11, in which ap-
pears the notice of his death. The subject
deals with the question of different methods


of work for suffrage in England and Ameri-
ca. Mr. Blackwell was always an old-line
Republican in principle, and had voted for
every Republican president. It is impos-
sible to even barely mention the many
enterprises he had engineered and the cour-
age and tenacity with which he persevered
under great difficulties. Mr. Blackwell was
a member of the old Literary club of Cin-
cinnati to which Rutherford B Hayes and
Ainsworth R. Spafford late Librarian of
Congress and other men afterward promi-
nent belonged, and was one of a group of
young men who were instrumental in bring-
ing Ralph Waldo Emerson and Theodore
Parker out to the West to lecture.
	The death of Wm. Lloyd Garrison fol-
lowed only five days after that of his life
long friend Mr. Blackwell, Sept. 12, 1909,
but was not so unexpected as he had been
failing for some months. Like his father
his home was always open to the field
agents and lecturers on anti-slavery, woman
suffrage and kindred reform movements, a
universal and all around reformer. He de-
manded justice and equal rights for all regard-
less of sex, complexion or nationality. He
might easy be termed a radical, supported
Home Rule in Ireland, was active in the
Anti-Imperial League, denounced the war
with Spain and conquest of the Philipines.
Mr. Garrison worked earnestly for the Arme-
nians and Moors. The single tax movement
had his most hearty sympathy and support.
He had a finished literary style in all his
works, an omniverous reader of books and of
current periodical literature, fond of poetry,
sometimes indulged in writing verses as a
sort of pastime.
	It is impossible to give an idea of this
remarkable man in a few words, but it is
said of him “That he never set his hand to
a bad cause and never turned his back on a
good one.” He was modest unassuming,
and sociable and had a world-wide circle of
friends in his own country and across the
sea. It is said he was intensely sympathe-
tic and generous to the needy, and most un-
selfish in all the relations of life.
	In accordance with his request no funeral
services were held and the simplest possible
casket contained his remains. He leaves a
wife (the niece of Lucretia Mott), five chil-
dren and six grandchildren.
	A memorial meeting will be held in his
honor at which representatives of the
reformatory movements in which he was an
active worker will participate.	E. B. W.


D. R. TOASTS.
	Delivered at the Daughters of the Revo-
lution Banquet given at the Lion House,
12th November, in honor of Mrs. Fitz, Presi-
dent-General of the National D. R. Society.
	The Pioneer Women of Utah came of a
fine, patriotic line of ancestry, many of their
forefathers, their grandparents were of the
old stanch colonial patriots who came to
America as early as 1830, and a few even at
a period prior to that. Their progeniters
held positions of trust in church and state,
were in the Revolution as officers and sol-
diers,and fought at Lexington, Bunker Hill,
Cowpens, Stillwater, Bennington, Quebec,
Saratoga; were with Washington at Valley
Forge the memorable winter of 1777 and
1778, in fact, all through the Revolution
until the surrender of Cornwallis at York
Town. Our Pioneer Women in connection
wtth the men of 47-8 suffered the privation,
want, almost starvation incident to their


long three months’ march across the deso-
late untraversed plains west of the Mississ-
ippi to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
They helped to lay the first connecting link
between the Great East and Far West,
which made travel safe and emigration sure.
They carded, spun and wove the cloth that
protected and clothed their families, they
cooked, sewed, washed and made their
homes comfortable and always gave a cord-
ial welcome to the stranger within our gates.
They, in some instances helped plant and
harvest the crops, and although many of
them had been well educated and tenderly
cared for all their former lives, in times of
extreme danger on the frontier they guarded
their homes and babies from the attacks of
marauding Indians, while husbands and
sons were in other parts, providing food or
in the discharge of duties.
	Like our Colonial Dames, our Revolution
Grandmothers, they gave their strong sup-
port, iheir heart’s love, hope, faith, fidelity
and patriotism in colonization work, in
helping establish the great commonwealth
in this western wild of America.
	God bless their memories, and may we,
their daughters and granddaughters, never
do ought that will desecrate, mar or cast a
shadow upon the character of our true, hon-
orable, heroic mothers, the Pioneer Women
of Utah.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
					U. S. S. Historian.


Toast given at the Lion House, Nov. 12,
1909, by Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber:
Madam Regent, President-General and
	Daughters:
	It is my happy previlege this evening on
behalf of the Daughters of the Revolution of
the State of Utah to speak of our Society.
Since the birth of the General Society, some
sixteen years ago, it has grown and multi-
plied and spread over the full extent of this
great American continent, and has become
a great force in the land. It has promoted
the spirit of patriotism in every loyal heart,
—not only in the parents, but in the child-
ren. It has filled them with a spirit of loy-
alty to our country that has no equal in
any other land on earth. It has bound to-
gether the hearts of every true American
citizen as with bands of steel. The General
Society stands for and represents true pat-
riotism, for is not every member a lineal
descendant of a patriot, one who stood for
liberty, or death—and the aim of the Society
is to in some way commemorate their brave
acts by placing monuments and tablets on
the sacred spots where heroes fought and
died. This, and to perpetuate in the hearts
of the people America’s independence is its
life work; and while we, the Daughters of
fair Utah, have no hallowed ground to tread,
or sacred spots to mark, we give our aid,
our love and our loyalty to the General
Society; may it forever remain true to the
cause for which it was organized; and may
its power in the land for good continue to
increase until every true American woman
will say, as Webster said at the laying of
the cornerstone at Bunker Hill mouument:
“I was born an American; I shall live an
American; I shall die an American.”


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gillman has brought
out the first issue of her bright new maga-
zine, the Forerunner. It is full of original
and suggestive matter, and all of it is writ-
ten by herself, even the advertisements.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matt.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	NOVEMBER, 1909.


PRESIDENT SMITH’S BIRTHDAY.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Joseph F. Smith, which occurred on Nov.
13, 1909, was fittingly celebrated by a family
gathering including beside his immediate
family, his elder brother John Smith, the
Patriarch, and his sister Martha Harris of
Provo, also his Counselors President John
R. Winder and wife, and President Anthon
H. Lund and wife, and general President
of the Refief Society, his Aunt, Bathsheba
W. Smith, the most honored woman in the
Church. The party was given at the Bee
Hive House, the President’s residence, and
the banquet was served in the famous Lion
House, with due ceremony befitting such a
happy occasion. Afterwards the younger
children made merry in dancing, games and
other childish pastimes.
	Letters and messages of congratulation
also many beautiful gifts were received,
testifying to the high honor in which he is
held by his friends and the people generally.
	The EXPONENT joins with his other near
and dear friends in offering sincere congrat-
ulations, and desiring for him many happy
returns of the day, without a shadow of
change in his appearance, and that the pros-
perity which he so richly deserves may be
showered upon him in abundance, and that
he may ever enjoy the loyalty and fidelity of
the people over whom he has been called
and chosen to preside. May our Father in
heaven protect him from his foes and en-
circle him in the arms of his tender, loving
care, that he may be a light to the world
that will ever shine pure and bright.


THANKSGIVING.
	In the midst of all that is transpiring in
the way of activities and achievements in
the world it is an appropriate time for grati-
tude and thanksgiving to our Father in
heaven, who is over all, and who is in and
through and above all, and can overrule all
things for the best interests of His great
latter-day work.
	It is gond that a day has been designated
and set apart for the purpose of thanksgiv-
ing to God, otherwise the hurrying, rushing,
busy people might altogether forget the duty
and obligation they owe to Him, who is the
source and fountain of all that is excellent
and truly progressive.
	It has come to be a time-honored custom,
and it is particularly fitting that it should
come just after the rich harvests of the earth


have been gathered in; and before the winter
holidays, that are now in this period of time,
so replete with feasting, festivity and hilari-
ty.
	There are so many wonderful events and
changes taking place all over the world, that
it is difficult to keep pace with the times in
which we are living; and the great catastro-
phies and calamities of almost daily occur-
rence give us warning that it is the time of the
fulfillment of the prophecies concerning the
last days; and that the fulness of times
which has been ushered in with the advent
of the gospel revealed from heaven through
the Prophet Joseph Smith is now upon the
people of this day and generation.
	The Latter-day Saints have great reason
for thanksgiving because of their almost un-
bounded temporal prosperity and the im-
provement in their conditions both at home
and abroad.
	The spread of light and truth, and know-
ledge of facts concerning the Latter-day
Saints is marvelous, and the Elders who
are in the mission field are doing a far greater
work than ever before.
	The various quorums of the priesthood
are coming to a higher appreciation of the
magnitude, scope, and strength of the order
and callings and a better understanding of
the relation the priesrhood bears to the
world of mankind.
	Various auxiliary organizations are also
generally more making greater improvement
and, taken all in all, we as a people are
trying to make “our calling and election
sure.”


DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.
	A new book by Prof. James E. Talmage
has just been published by the Deseret News
entitled “The Great Apostasy” “Considered
in the Light of Secular History.” It is a
book containing valuable information and
will be of great interest to students of re-
ligious history and to those who reason on
Scripture subjects, and in fact to both men
and women who desire to comprehend relig-
ious conditions as they have existed in the
past, without reading so many books, that
take more time than people of the present
day can afford, therefore the work will be
useful and acceptable in giving correct know-
ledge that can be relied upon by those whe
teach and instruct others, and who must of
necessity deal specifically with facts that can
not be controverted, but will stand the sever-
est critisism as to accuracy.
	Elders who preach the gospel at home or
abroad will be benefitted and instructed by
reading and digestiug this work; the book is
unique in style and fills a place in our Church
literature that no other author has undertaken
to deal with. It is finished in its literary com-
position and must hold a high place among
the sacred classics.
	It will perhaps not appeal to the ordinary
reader generally, as it will require depth of
thought and concentration to appreciate its
full meaning and application; but it will be
invaluable to those who must cope with
grave questions in the light of sound reason-
ing. The book contains 176 pages, and is
divided into ten chapters; and the contents
give one a good idea where to look for a
given subject.
	A brief preface tells the reader in a few
words some important facts that would
make one desirous of looking further into
its pages.
	The book evidences careful research that
has required much time and effort to compile


and arrange in such admirable order. The
subject is dealt with philisophically and from
a Book of Mormon standpoint as well as Bib-
lical history connecting the two most import-
ant and reliable books of inspiration and
prophecy of the past.


PRESIDENT GENERAL’S VISIT.
	Mrs. Adeline F. Fitz, President-General
of the D. R. Society at large, with head-
quarters in Fifth Avenue, New York City,
arrived in this city as expected on Thursday
afternoon Nov. 11, and was met at the Rio
Grande depot by the Regent, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne, with automobile, and a few
of the members, who welcomed her to the
city and escorted her to the home of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall to dine and rest before
the evening reception.
	The reception was an exceptionally bril-
liant affair, given purposely to introduce
Mrs. Fitz to the D. R. members and their
friends. The Farnsworth home was brightiy
illuminated and the colorc of the D. R.
Society were tastefully carried out in the
elaborate decorations. The host and host-
ess, Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, were most
cordial in welcoming the guest of honor, and
the invited company; and the ladies arriving
in time, the Regent, the hostess and the
President-General, with several of the offic-
ers and members, welcomed and introduced
the gentlemen and ladies to the distin-
guished guest of honor.
	Later on there was a song recital by the
President-General, who is a musician, and
Miss Irene Kelley, a pupil of Prof. Hugh
Dougall, rendering exquisitely the songs of
Mrs. Fitz, who is a song writer and com-
poser of both words and music, and it was
her delineation that gave tone to the enter-
tainment. The program was very select
and high class, both in purity of style and
adaptability to the occasion, a delightful
variety, in fact, that was harmonious and
uplifting instead of the monotony of small
talk that often becomes irksome. The lady
read between the songs and music, and her
voice was very full-toned and clear and rich
in expression of sentiment.
	The dining room was brilliant with charm-
ing young girls who served refreshments
with grace and ease of manner, meanwhile
music was softly playing in a distant room
of the stately home. There were no disap-
pointments, and all was managed so perfect-
ly as to insure pleasure and variety.
	Mr. and Mrs. Farnsworth, the Regent,
Mrs. Horne, and the committee in charge of
affairs are to be congratulated on the per-
fect success of the entire evening’s entertain-
ment.
	Friday morning the D. R. ladies, with
Mrs. Fitz and the Regent were due at the
State University in time for devotional ex-
ercises, and after singing America and a
few words of welcome by President Kings-
bury, the President-General addressed the
college students in a very pleasing style, her
remarks were appropriate and well chosen,
powerful and replete with telling anecdotes.
	After the exercises some of the ladies
visited several of the University departments
and a delicious luncheon, served under the
direction of the Dean of Domestic Science,
Miss Lucy Vun Cott which was thoroughly
enjoyed, and the conversation between Pres.
ident Kingsbury, Prof. Marshall and Mrs.
Fitz was calculated to give her a good idea
of higher education in Utah.
	The State Regent, Mrs. Horne, President


[Column 1]
General Mrs. Fitz, and members of the D.
R. went direct from the University to the
Saltair depot, where they were joined by in-
vited guests of ihe party, Governor Spry and
wife, Hon. John Henry Smith and wife,
Senator W. N. Williams and wife, and other
gentlemen and ladies, a car full. The day
was fine, though rather too cold for bathing,
but the pavilion and its setting is a novelty
in itself, and is one of the unique features of
our “mountain retreat.” There was an hour
for getting acquainted, and Mrs. Fitz, who
has traveled extensively, seemed delighted
with the company, the scenery and the view
of the Dead Sea of America.
	The next place to be visited was the his-
toric Lion House and Mrs. Fitz was shown
over this famous dwelling piace, built in
early days by the great pioneer, Brigham
Young. In the room where pioneer relics
were, Mrs. Zina Y. Card explained to Mrs.
Fitz concerning the interesting articles on
exhibition.
	Afterwards the ladies repaired to the hall
up stairs where a banquet was given in
honor of the Prosident-General. There were
twenty of the D. R. members, including the
guest of honor herself. The table was hand-
somely decorated in the Society colors, rib-
bons, flowers, place cards and all the pretty
appointments neatly arranged. Mrs. Maria
Y. Dougall offered in a few words a blessing
on the repast, and each lady in turn read the
sentiment on her place card, which was a
pleasant opening to “table talk.” Later the
Regent, Mrs. Horne, introduced the toast-
master, Mrs. W. N. Williams, in a very grac-
ious way, with a humorous address, quite
original and characteristically amusing.
The toastmaster responded in an equally
happy and genuine manner, receiving ap-
plause from the ladies present. Mrs. Wil-
liams called upon Mrs. Dougall to give some-
thing of the drama and amusements in early
days in Utah, which was given in the most
delightful and edifying way imaginable.
	Mrs. P. T. Farnsworth was the next to re-
spond, and her toast to the pioneers is given
in full on another page. The second Vice-
Regent, Mrs, Lund, gave a brief resume of
“Early Education in Utah,” very impressive
and interesting, summing up in brief much
important matter truly significant of the
struggles and difficulties of pioneer teachers
and the great efforts made by the people
who settled this Rocky Mountain region.
	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave the D. R. Society
in her own characteristic way; it was a
strong appeal, setting forth the nature and
benefits of the General Society and what it
had done in the last few years.
	(Mrs. Webber’s speech on another page.)
	The editor of this paper had been asked
to give the welcome to the President-General
which she did in a few loving and gracious
words—stating it was the first time any of
the General Officers had visited us, and that
we felt greatly delighted and honored in
having so grand and queenly a woman in
our midst as our President-General, Mrs.
Fitz.
	The President-General responded most
lovingly in genuine appreciation of rhe kind-
ness and honors shown her, the hospitable
entertainments, and that she should remem-
ber with pleasure the visit and the Society,
hoping we would gain in members and
strength and would soon have a Junior So-
ciety in which she had been Director-Gener-
al for two years, and was greatly interested
in the organization; her address was compli-
mentary to the Society and replete with
good wishes for success.

[Column 2]
	The banquet was a  delightful affair, as
were all the functions given for Mrs. Fitz and
we trust she realized how glad we were to
have the opportunity of honoring the Presi-
dent-General of the D. R., and that we ap-
preciated her fitness for the position she oc-
cupies and her charming personality; her
musical talent, aside from the high office she
has been called to, would endear her to
Utah people, who are known the world over
as music lovers.
	Saturday morning the State Regent, Mrs.
Horne, and members of the Society accom-
panied Mrs. Fitz to the Tabernacle, where a
special recital had been arranged for her by
President Joseph F. Smith, Prof. McClellan
at the great organ.
	Ai 12 p. m. a luncheon in her honor was
given to the State Regent and officers of
the D. R. at Mrs. T. G. Webber’s residence.
Covers were laid for twelve and the decora-
tions were most artistic and up-to-date in
every detail, as well as the sumptuous re-
past.
	After the luncheon at Mrs. Webber’s we
had the pleasure of a call at this office from
Mrs. Fitz, the President-General of the D.
R. Society, the State Regent, Mrs. Horne,
and Mrs. Dougall, at whose house Mrs. Fitz
has been entertained in the city as an honor-
ed guest, and the writer had the pleasure of
dining at Mrs. Dougall’s Saturday evening,
and conversing with Mrs. Fitz an hour or
more until a party of us accompanied her to
the theatre, as we were anxious she should
see the Salt Lake theatre, built by Brigham
Young, the great pioneer in promoting
amusements for the people.
	Mrs. Fitz left Sunday at 12:10, Nov. 14,
1909 for the east via Omaha, Milwaukee
and Chicago, expecting to reach her home in
Wakefield, Mass., in good time for Thanks-
giving.
	Her stay in Salt Lake was very enjoyable
and, we hope, profitable to the Society she
represents, and we wish her success and a
prosperous and successful administration,
as well as joy and happiness in all her var-
ous pursuits.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITOTIAL NOTES.
	As it is nearing the close of the year and
many of the subscribers to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT are delinquent in their payments,
some even several years behind, it seems
positively necessary to remind them—no
doubt in most instances it is forgetfulness.
It is something that the editor of this paper
very much dislikes to do; most papers and
journals are largely maintained by adver-
tisements, but this paper depends entirely
upon the subscription, one dollar a year from
the sisters. We trust this notice will meet
with the approval of our patrons so that we
may be able to meet all expenses at the 
close of the year.
	The delegates from the N. W. R. S., Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne, proxy for the President,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and Mrs. Eliza-
beth S. Wilcox, delegate, attended officially
the triennial session of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, held in
Seattle, Washington, July 14-16, and were
very cordially welcomed and allotted every
privilege due to the society they represented,
and in fact they were graciously received
at all the grand functions given in honor of
both the National and International Coun-
cils. These two ladies, Mrs. Horne and Mrs.
Wilcox, in company with their husbands,
visited Victoria and Vancouver previous to
the opening of the Council, and enjoyed the


trip very much and especially the scenery.
Returning to Seattle, they met the distin-
guished party of gentlemen and ladies of
the International Council from abroad, first
at a magnificent banquet given in their hon-
or at the Empress Hotel; they were in time
to hear the program of toasts which must
have been exceptionally brilliant and a very
great pleasure. Mrs. Horne says “I enjoyed
it so much meeting my dear Frau Marie
Stritt, Dr. Alice Saloman and some of the la-
dies from England, Scandinavia and Belgium
that I had met before and some new people.
It was a magnifcent occasion and the day
was beautiful, perfect.” Mrs. Horne and
Mrs. Wilcox were privileged to attend all
the functions given and had excellent oppor-
tunities of conversing with the cultured
women of the world, who are engaged in the
highest educational and philianthropic work,
for the betterment of society and humanity.


MRS. ADELINE F. FITZ, PRESIDENT-GEN.
	ERAL DAUGHTERS OF THE
		REVOLUTION.
	It often becomes necessary when inter-
preting patriotic personality to search out
all its springs of action to follow up the
links that bind it to a past. The import-
ance and influence of such characters as
played so promlnent a part in the birth of
New England, as those of Mrs. Adeline
Frances Fitz on the paternal ancestrial line:
namely, Lieutenant James Torrey, who took
the oath of office as early as 1633. Captain
Caleb Torrey, who lost his life while drying
the town of Scituate’s stock of gunpowder
during the French and Indian war, Nich-
olas, one of the twelve men who founded
Harvard College with Joan Elliott as pas-
tor, at Roxbury—assisting in the translation
of the old Bay Psalm Book into Indian
verse, John Slade, keeper of the famous
Bite Tavern, opposite Faneuil Hall, Boston
—cannot but be of interest to those who
claim her as their leader. Her maternal
ancestors did not reach the American shores
until after the close of the war of 1812.
Mrs. Fitz has been thoroughly trained along
patriotic lines—she has served two years as
Historian, two years as Vice-Regent, and
three years as State Regent of the Mass-
achusetts Society. She in that time sug-
gested for her society two pieces of memor-
ial work—one as a state work, and one as
a national work—through her energy and
untiring work she saw them completed
while in office. The first was a beautiful
bronze tablet placed in the Boston Pubiic
Library—to the writers of patriotic verse
and songs—and the second the Gateway at
Cambridge—marking the spot where Wash-
ington took command of the American
army. Her latest suggestion, that of the
Annapolis Memorial to the founders of our
navy and the Revolutionary sailor is wel-
comed with even greater enthusiasm by her
patriotic sisters. Mrs. Fitz is the daughter
of David Slade, one of the oldest members 
of the Chamber of Commerce of Boston—
the wife of Judge Frank E. Fitz and the
mother of three sons. Her life work outside
of her family has been devoted to music—
and as a composer of songs she is recognized
as a leader in her home state. Most of her
composftions were produced as a pastime,
or to fit occasions in which her friends were
interested and sought her assistance. They
include a vast number of hymn settings, 
piano solos—and songs for kindergarten and
concert use. She was finally induced to 
publish the songs, and their appearance was


enthusiastically received by the musical
public. Although interested in music above
all other arts, she has fine literary taste, as
is shown by the selections which she has set
to music. Quoting Mrs. Fitz, she says:
“After all, a song is but a happy thought to
music set.” Mrs. Fitz is also the writer of
four lectures on different subjects in the
world of music. Mrs. Fitz comes to our
state in the interest of her organization—the
Daughters of the Revolution. She is also a
member of the Professional Woman’s Club
of Boston. and of the Kosmos Club. of
Wakefield, Massachusetts.		Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake convened in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden on the 19th
day of July, 1909.
	The morning session commenced at 10
o’clock.
	There were present on the stand Counselors
Isabel Foulger and L. Letitia Richards of
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
and all members of the Board with the ex-
ception of President Sarah M. Taylor who
was unable to be present. Of the brethren
there were President Thomas B. Evans of
the Stake Presidency and Elder George E.
Ferrin of the High Council.
	Counselor Isabel Foulger presiding. After
excuses, roll call and prelude, prayer was
offered by Sister Reast, and the usual exer-
cises of singing, minutes, etc.
	Counselor Foulger welcomed all present
and trusted that we might have an enjoy-
able time while together. Referred to the
significance of the day to the Relief Society,
it being thirty-two years ago today since
President Brigham Young met with the Re-
lief Society in Ogden, organizing them into
a stake. the first womans organization, with
Sister Jane S. Richards appointed president,
also inaugurating the quarterly conferences,
which have been so prolific of good. Re-
gretted that Sister Richards was too feeble
to be with us on this occasion. Stated that
our visitors from the city would arrive later.
	Reports from nine of the ten associations
were given, all denoting activity and growth;
the Mother’s work especially was growing
in favor and was the means of bringing
many young mothers into the society. The
poor and the aged were being tenderly cared
for and the careless and indifferent were be-
ing visited.
	The secretary’s report showed that weekly
meetings were held uniformly throughout
the stake and that one hundred and eighty
visits had been made to the associations,
by the members of the Board during the
eleven month’s existence of the Ogden stake.
Officers meetings were held monthly with
an average of 60 per cent attendance. As a
beginning we are not discouraged; although
we see much to be accomplished yet we are
learning “To labor and to wait.”
	President Evans had greatly enjoyed the
spirit of the conference, commended the sis-
ters for their punctuality for he realized that
the mothers in Israel had much to do. 
Spoke of the deplorable conditions existing
among our young people and wondered
whether the Relief Society was reaching the
mothers, for until we reach the mothers we
can never reach the daughters. Prayed the
Lord to bless us that we might be able to
minister to the spiritually sick and afflicted
for our mission is to save souls. 
	Sister Harriet B. Harker of the General

[Column 2]
Relief Society Board said our field of labor
is broad, there is nothing good or praise-
worthy but belongs to the Relief Society,
nothing good or great that we may not do.
Regarding the training of the child “preven-
tion is better than cure;” watch your chil-
dren from infancy. Every home properly
organized is a power for good in the com-
munity and when we have learned to rightly
govern our own we are qualified to help
others.
	Elder George E. Ferrin of the High Coun-
cil had greatly enjoyed the excellent things
he had heard but realized that not what we
hear but what we put into practice tends to
our growth and development.
	Sister Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the Relief
Society Presidency spoke on respect for the
aged. Paid a glowing tribute to the life and
labors of Sister Jane S. Richards, that great
woman who has done so much for the Relief
Society cause not alone in Weber county
but throughout Zion.
	The congregation sang and the benedic-
tion was pronounced and morning session
adjourned.
	A luncheon was prepared and served by
the sisters of the 7th ward and a social time
was had during the interval between meet-
ings.
	The afternoon session convened at two
o’clock.
	Counselor Foulger presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A. Jost
of the Stake Board.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry of the
General Relief Society spoke at some length
on Mother and Child, pleading with the
mothers to start the training of the child
early and not to wait until “too late.” Real-
ized the great need of the home mother, and
yet there are times when we need to get out
and learn the needs of the community and
of the world; other souls are struggling with
problems as well as ourselves and perhaps
we have something that others have not and
therefore our Father requires us to co-ope-
rate and to bless and strengthen each other
and has given us the Relief Society as a me-
dium and it stands as a monument of virtue
and purity. Prayed the Lord to bless the
mothers in Israel that they might better
understand their children and that as a so-
ciety we might band together and do a little
preventive work in the community.
	Sister Harker of the General Relief Society
Board commended the work of the teachers.
Said they are the back-bone of the society;
their responsibilities are great but they can
get the spirit of their work, the spirit of dis-
cernment, by entering into their closets and
calling upon the Lord. Spoke of the Relief
Society Nurse Class and urged the neces-
sity of sending our girls that they might
qualify themselves for intelligent nursing.
	President Evans asked the Lord to help
us to apply all that had been said this day,
that we might be worthy examples before
our children and before the world.
	Counselor Foulger desired to be a power
for good in the midst of Zion. Trusted that
all would be stirred up to greater diligence
through the teachings given this day. Felt
that we had been richly blessed in having
our sisters from the General Board with us
and that their teachings would be a stimu-
lus to greater exertion and nobler efforts.
	The congregation sang “God be with you
till we meet again.”
	The benediction was pronounced by Pre-
sident Evans, and the conference was ad-
journed for three months.
			NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of our beloved sister, Annie R.
Stringham, who departed this life, October 26,
1909, at the age of 46 years.
	We, the members of the Relief Society are
bereft of our Beloved and ever faithful co-worker.
Our intimate association with her in the perform-
ance of her duties in the ward, has so endeared
her to us that we feel it befitting to express our
appreciation of her labors in the Relief Society.
Sunday School, and Primary Association. She
has been a stay and strength to the people with
whom she mingled. A guardian angel among the
sick and afflicted, a prudent, conscientious and
careful counselor to those who were in distress and
needed counsel.
	She was an exemplar of ihe ideals we hold best
in our lives. A genuine, devoted wife. A loving,
earnest and thoughtful mother. Her life work
has been the uplifting and betterment or her kind.
Few can be found who have so faithfully fulfilled
the duties and responsibilities that have rested on
her. Be it
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to her husband and children, and ask the
Lord to bless and comfort them, and cause them
to know he is their friend.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the Woman’s
Exponent and give a copy to the family.
			ELIZABETH GLEDHILL,
			LILLY BELLE GLEDHILL,
			EMMA POFF,
				Committee on Resolutions!

		OUR FOUNDER GENERAL.
	Expressions of love and esteem to the memory
of Annie Taylor Hyde, who departed this life
March, 1909.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our beloved Founder-General and
first president, Annie Taylor Hyde, who through
religion and loyalty, founded this Society of
Daughters of Utah Pioneers, obeying willingly
the commandment to honor thy father and thy
mother, and
	Whereas, We shall miss not only her dear,
sweet face, her gentle voice and pleasant smile,
but her many beautiful ideas, her high standard
of honor and duty and exeecutive ability, and her
great influence in making parental honor a per-
petual suggestion in our society, therefore be it
	Resolved, That, while we say Thy will be done,
we deeply regret that she has been taken from us,
for her life was a benediction to us; that we feel
full sympathy for her family. May the home
which she blessed never lose her influence, and
may her children hold as sacred her precepts
as she did those of her parents, and
	Resolved, As Daughters of Utah Pioneers, that
we will honor father, honor mother, also the
memory of Annie T. Hyde while life lasts, and
make this society a living monument to their
names.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be sent to the
family of deceased as a mark of respect, and a
copy be recorded in our minute book.

		Annie’s hands have labored,
			Sharing love and life.
		Daughters we must follow,
			In this noble strife.

		Onward, pioneer daughters,
			Raise our standard high,
		Honor parents’ mem’ries 
			Let this be our cry.

			SUSA YOUNG GATES,
			VICKIE CLAYTON MCCUNE,
			ANNIE LYNCH
							Committee.


ADVANCE NOTICE.
	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN, two volumes, edited by Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, printed and published by
THE PLIMPTON PRESS, Norwood, Mass.;
octavo size, 300 pages each, illustrated.
$1.50 per set.
	The Plimpton Press is bringing out a
work which its editor, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, has made of historical and socio-
logical value.
	The work includes two octavo volumes of
300 pages each, illustrated by numerous
half-tones of both persons and places.
These volumes are the record of the work


and growth of the International Council of
Women during its Third Quinquennial
(1899-1904), when Mrs. May Wright Sewall
was its president. Volume I is a complete
record of all meetings held under her ad-
ministration, and is practically a survey of
women’s work throughout the modern
world. Reports of this character are usu-
ally intended merely for temporary use by
the people immediately concerned. These
volumes are intended and have been so ex-
ecuted that they are, a contribution of per-
manent value to the history of our period.
Volume I contains a double-index, one of
persons and one of subjects;—the former in-
cluding over three hundred and fifty names,
is a register of the active Council workers in
nineteen countries, and is so carefully ar-
ranged that the work of each participant in
the Council movement can be read as a con-
tinuous story by any one seeking to know
the Council record of any individual. The
second index is prepared in a manner that
enables a student to study every subject
and the progressive development of each
department of work in the Council in the
same independent and progressive manner.
Volume II contains the reports and ad-
dresses made by the most prominent and
distinguished Council Workers at the Berlin
Quinquennial, and taken as a whole, gives
a bird’s eye view of the work that women of
the world have in hand for its social civil,
and ethical betterment. These volumes
justify every claim that has been advanced
for the value of the Council as a factor
in human progress, and particularly as an
agent for the nurture arid development of
that SENSE of SOLIDITY on which all Inter-
national association in work for human
progress must be based. These volumes
should be in every public library in the
country, and, if necessary, a special edition
should be issued that would suffice to place
a set of them in the library of every high
school, academy and college. Every year
witnesses an increase in the number of stu-
dents, particularly in the number of young
women who are interested in the progressive
liberty of their sex. To all such students
these volumes should be made accessible,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly onference of the
Relief Society of Nebo Stake, held at Lake
Shore, Sept. 24, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing; prayer; singing, and other usual exer-
cises. Sister Serena Yond, president of
Lake Shore spoke a few words of welcome.
Sister Kapple made the response of wel-
come and spoke of the Relief Society work
as being organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Felt thankful for the testimony she
had of the truthfulness of the Gospel. Sis-
ter Dixon spoke of the organization of the
Church, how perfect it is; there are organi-
zations for all from the child up, where they
are instructed in the Gospel. The sisters
are expected to look after the morals of the
sisters and encourage the brethren to good
works; spoke on the work of the teachers
visiting and taking care of the sick and
needy, and laying away the dead, we should
be thankful that there is an organization to
look after these things. Let us be faithful
and keep the commandments of the Lord.
Sister Monk reported Palmyra Ward, forty
members enrolled, doing a good work, and

[Column 2]
helping the missionaries. Sister Yond re-
ported Lake Shore in good condition, bore
her testimony.
	Hymn by the choir. An exercise was
given by Sister Crook on parents’ class
work, subject “Motherhood.”
	Duett by Mary E. Berry and Gwen Huff,
entitled “Daughters of Zion.”
	Sister Brown who has been called to
labor in the Primary spoke for a short
time; said her interest was still in the Re-
lief Society, feels that the Spirit of the
Lord is with us today, if we are sincere the
Lord will answer our prayers and we can
all gain a testimony for ourselves if we
work for it and pray to the Lord.
	Brother Joseph Tanner spoke a short
time on shirking the responsibility of rais-
ing children. Related a circumstance of a
brother’s spirit leaving his body, and the
condition he found himself in, he was in
debt and was permitted to come back and
pay debts; spoke of his trip to Canada, and
some of the conditions there: how well
meetings were attended, and the good feel-
ing that prevailed. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., by singing.
	Benediction by Sister Eliza A. Hawkins.
	Afternoon session: Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m., President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. Singing; prayer; singing, and
usual exercises.
	Sister Hawkins made a few remarks
on her trip to California and her visit to
the branch of the Church in Los Angeles.
Song by Sister Hortense Anderson entitled,
“I need thee every hour.”
	A lecture was given on spiritual growth,
how knowledge comes, by Sister Evans.
	Bishop Argyle spoke on the sick being
healed by administration. Spoke of the
power our sisters have in administering to
the sick. Said we are preparing ourselves
for the second coming of-the Savior.
	Recitation by Sister Lizzie Huff, entitled
“If we knew.”
	Sister Kapple said we only gain by the
knowledge we get. We should train our
children by our own examples as mothers,
if we are humble and faithful the Lord
will bless us and we will be guided right
and know what to do when our children are
sick. Spoke of the blessings that are prom-
ised us if we keep the word of wisdom;
also on keeping our records correctly.
	Brother Francis spoke on Relief Society
work. Sister Dixon made a few closing
remarks, and thanked the people of Lake
Shore for their hospitality.
	Conference adjourned for three months
by singing and benediction by Elder Nath-
an Clayson.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 26.)
	If we did not taste the bitter we could not
prize the sweet. Let us keep God’s com-
mandments, and trust in Him and work out
our salvation.
	But to return to my narrative. It is now
winter and in consequence of the trouble,
not much preparation for comfort, let alone
preparing for another move. Yet Brother
Joseph Smith would often send cheerful
messages to the Saints, suffering as he was,
telling them to get away as fast as they

[Column 2]
could for there would be no chance for him
and his brethren as long as one remained.
Imagine our feelings to leave the state, and
leave our Prophet and brethren in a cold
dungeon, and food loathsome beyond de-
scription placed before them of which they
could not partake but leave we must, and
as fast as the people could they started.
	I think it was on the 1st of March we
started to Illinois, for this was the direction
in which the Saints were traveling. My
husband fitted up our conveyance, the best
he could; which was a cart with a bed sheet
for a cover, and one horse. He was a noble
animal and did his part well. We called
him Prince. But after he had taken us
safely out of the state he lay down and died.
	I could not describe our suffering on this
journey. Five of us in this small convey-
ance, we could not take anything but our
bedding, a little clothing and food. It
stormed incessantly on the road. Some-
times we could travel no more than five
miles in a day, and when we got to the
Mississippi bottom, which was several miles
it was almost impossible to travel for mud
and water. At night we would gather brush
and sticks to lay our bed on and then be-
fore morning be drenched to the skin.
	At last we reached the river; having money
enough to pay for being taken across. We
had been three weeks on the road. We
crossed at Quincy and went up the river a
few miles, stopped for awhile to rest, and,
as I have stated, our horse died. So we
stayed in Adams’ county one year before
going up to Nauvoo; raised a small crop in
this placo, enough to live upon the winter
we stayed there.
	There were five families of us in this
place that had come from Missouri and
shared in persecutions. Three families of
the Tippits and Brother G. Perry. We en-
joyed ourselves with one exception: Brother
John Tippits lost his wife there, and that
cast a gloom over us all for a season, for she
was much esteemed by all of us for her
goodness. In the spring Brother Alva Tip-
pits loaned us a horse to go to Nauvoo.
	I will not attempt to give details of the
brethren’s escape from prison. Suffice it to
say, they got to Nauvoo before we did.
Providence had worked out their deliver-
ance, after the Saints had left the state and
they had been six months in that horrible
prison. Well, here we were again, not con-
quered in spirit, but determined to live our
religion and stand by the principles of the
Gospel and build up the kingdom of God.
	The people here in Illinois seemed hospit-
able and willing to give us a resting place,
but how long would they feel like this, time
alone would tell. It was a very sickly place
here, especially for children. We got a city
lot and built a comfortable log house at the
foot of the hill near the street that led up to
the Temple lot. We sold this place to
Brother Woodruff and took another lot one
block south of this, and were enabled to
build a better house—a frame with two
rooms.
	My fourth child, one born after we got
to Nauvoo, died in this house when he was
one year and eight months old. After his
death I took up a school and taught a term
of three months. This took up my time and
passed off the summer. Work on the Tem-
ple had commenced and the basement story
nearly completed. Elders were being sent
out to the nations to preach the Gospel, em-
grants were coming in from different parts
of the earth and the kingdom was rolling
on.
	About this time the Relief Society was


[Column 1]
organized with Emma Smith as president,
Eliza R. Snow secretary. I joined this So-
ciety. It was for the Relief of the poor and
for every noble purpose that came within
woman’s sphere of action. We had such
good instructions given in our meetings.
Sometimes Brother Joseph would come and
instruct us. Once in particular I remember
his opening the meeting with prayer. He
was full of the Spirit of God. His whole
frame shook, and his face shone and looked
almost transparent. This was about the
time that the celestial order of marriage
was revealed to him, and he had taught it
to a few who could bear it. But I heard
him say at one time on the stand, in the
grove on the brink of the hill, where they
held the meetings: “If I should make known
to these, [turning to those that sat behind
him] who pretend to be my best friends
what God has revealed to me, they would
be the first to seek my life.” Among those
that sat there were William Law and Wil-
liam Marks, and surely those men turned to
be his most bitter enemies, although they
had pretended the greatest friendship.
	It was not all sunshine here in Nauvoo,
the clouds began to gather thick around.
Brother Joseph was arraigned many times
before the law, but always was cleared of the
charges against him. It seemed no man was
harassed as he was; and for what reason?
Because he was a prophet raised up in this
wicked and perverse generation to be an
instrument in the hands of God to lay the
foundation of his kingdom on the earth; and
ws read in holy writ that in like manner they
persecuted the prophets before.
	To return again: Now we had an offer to
sell our home again; this time we realized, I
think it wns $225.00. It was all cash this
time. We now went up on the hill near the
Temple, and bought one quarter of an acre.
It was a beautiful location. In front to the
east lay the public square; on the south the
Temple and Main Street, called Mullholland
Street. Here, we thought would be our
home, and we would move no more. My
husband did his own carpenter work. He
built us a good frame house here, with
three rooms and a good cellar. I enjoyed
living in this house very much. I could
look over to the temple and see the work-
men at their work and hear the click of the
hammer from morn to eve, and their sailor
songs as they were pulling the rocks in
place with pullies; and I thought it de-
lightful.
	One day I looked over to the Temple and
saw a large crowd gathered at the north-
east corner. I thought I saw some females
in the crowd, so I put on my bonnet and
shawl and went over. Brother Joseph
seemed very busily engaged. The crowd
around the corner stone was so great that I
could not at first imagine what was being
done. At last Brother Joseph said,
“Brethren, stand back, and let these sisters
come and see for themselves.” There were
three of us. Sisters Whitney, Cahoon and
myself. The brethren gave way and we
went up to the huge rock, and in the center
was a square box chiseled out, I think some
over a foot square, and about the same
depth and lined with zinc. In this Brother
Joseph had placed the Bible, Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants, Hymn Book,
and other Church works, as well as the
newspapers—the Times and Seasons and
the Nauvoo Neighbor, that were printed in
Nauvoo,-and money that had been coined in
that year. These things were all laid in
this box, then a lid of stone cemented down

[Column 2]
and the house built on the top of it. This
made me think of the prophets in ancient
days hiding up records to come forth in fu-
ture generations. But I never had any ex-
planation, but supposed it was for some
wise purpose.
	This building progressed with great rapid-
ity, and I was present when the capstone
was laid. The Saints turned out to hear the
last ring of the trowel on that house and to
hear the address delivered on this occasion.
During the building of that structure the
brethren had a great deal to contend with,
hecause the people in the state were getting
more hostile towards us all the time; but
the Lord held them at bay until the house
was finished. The Lord accepted it at their
hands.
	Previous to this the Prophet Joseph Smith
had written his views on the powers and
policy of the government, and they were
printed in pamphlet form. The elders that
were sent out to preach the Gospel were
counseled to take this work with them, and
present it to the world. My husband was
among the number, and took this work with
him. He was to go to the state of New
York, consequently would go and visit his
birthplace before he returned. I had a great
desire to go with him and stay among our
relatives until he fulfilled his mission. He
went and asked counsel of Brothers Joseph
and Hyrum. They told him to take me
along and I should prove a blessing to him,
so he received his instructions, and we
rented our house and started.
	Our course was along the Mississippi river
on the steamer “Osprey” to St. Louis, and
on the “Robert Fulton” down to the mouth
of the Ohio river and up that rlver to Pitts-
burg, then by rail and canals until we
reached Buffalo, where we took a steamer
down the lake Ontario and landed at Sack-
ett’s Harbor, about the 25th of June.
	We were now within twelve miles of
Father Tracy’s. My husband walked eight
miles to his brother-in-laws, Samuel Mattison
and he, with his team came after us, brought
us to his house that night, and next day we
all went to Father Tracy’s and met with
a cordial greeting amongst our relatives in
general, having been absent ten years, we
had been visiting and enjoying ourselves for
one short week, and behold the heart-rend-
ing news reached us of the murder of our
dear Prophet and Patriarch, who so short
a time before had instructed my husband
concerning his mission and had come down
to the boat to see us off. Could it be true that
those noble men had sealed their testimony
with their blood my husband was so stricken
with the blow he could hardly bear up and
the cry was now, “Your Church will go to
nothing now, your leaders are killed,
they did not comprehend the prophecy con-
cerning the kingdom of God in the last days,
and that God was able to raise up another
to stand as a mouthpiece from Him to His
people, but now it was truly a gloomy, sor-
rowful time in Nauvoo. These men gave
themselves up to be tried with a pledge of
the state that they would be protected; but
the result is too well known. The plan was
concocted from the official head down to

[Column 3]
the lowest demons that committed the dark
deed. And this in our boasted land of lib-
erty that our fathers fought and bled to re-
deem from under the iron yoke and would be
permitted to worship God as they chose and
as their conscience should dictate, but where
now was protection from mob violence and
persecution? How often have the Latter-
day Saints sought for redress to the rulers of
this land, but they turn a deaf ear to our
entreaties. But surely the day is at hand
when God will allow the Saints to triumph
over their foes and so we will leave them in
the hands of God, for he says, “Revenge is
mine; I will repay.”
	I will return to my narrative. Before we
went east, my husband was in the employ
of one Amos Davis, a merchant in Nauvoo,
and had been for one year and a half, and
when he settled up with him, he very gen-
erously presented my husband with a suit of
broadcloth, with hat and fine boots, and
myself a dress pattern, said he regretted to
part with him, and when he returned if he
wanted employment he could have his place
back.
	While we were in New York my husband
preached the Gospel and baptized two, also
advocated Brother Joseph’s views on the
powers and policy of the government. We
bore faithful testimonies to our brethren and
relatives and in the spring bid our friends
farewell to return again to our home in Nau-
voo. We landed at the City of the Saints
the twelfth of August on Sunday morn-
ing, but O how lonely it seemed! Our
Prophet and Patriarch were not among the
Saints in person, but that day his spirit
rested upon Brigham Young and as the
mantle of Joseph fell on Brigham it seemed
that the voice and every gesture was like
Joseph and he was sustained as prophet,
seer and revelator by the voice of the people.
	After we got back to Nauvoo, my young-
est child, two years and two months old,
was taken very sick and only lived two
weeks. This was two children I had buried
in Nauvoo. They were laid side by side,
and were about the same age. They were
two fine children, but it seemed almost im-
possible to raise a child in Nauvoo.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Woman’s Journal devotes a large part
of the October 16 issue to an account of
Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst, and the Women’s
Social and Political Union, of which she is
head. The reports in the American press
of the “militant” movement for woman suf-
frage in England have been to the last de-
gree distorted and misleading while the
quieter activities of the many non-militant
English suffrage societies are not reported
at all. Not one in a thousand of our people,
unles he takes a woman suffrage paper, has
any conception of the remarkabie agitation
now going on in Great Britain. It is really
among the most wonderful things in history.
Mrs. Pankhurst deserves the esteem of all
men and women who love justice, who re-
spect self-sacrifice, who appreciate masterly
generalship, or who admire courage.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

