Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1909.					No. 2.


LIFE IS WORTH THE LIVING.
Oh life is worth the living, from the cradle to the
	grave,
With all its light and shadow, if the spirit is but
	brave;
For the mystic web it weaveth, touched by
	memory’s magic spell,
Are picture's in soul chamber’s where the spirit
	loves to dwell.

Oh life is worth the living, for the sunshine and
	the dew,
The diamond dew that sparkles like a sweet
	thought pure and true.
For the little warbling song-birds in the treetops
	soaring high,
For the music of the breezes, so softly passing
	by.

Oh life is worth the living, for the little baby’s
	smile.
Its loving touch and prattle, the lingering hour’s
	bequile;
For the glow and warmth of youth time, life’s mys-
	tic fairy-land
For the pearl’s and gems that sparkle along its
	golden strand.

Oh life is worth the living, for fond parental
	love,
Type of that higher Parenthood, in our dear home
	above,
For the silver threads of friendship twining a
	cable strong,
For the touch of sweet humanity, in life’s un-
	numbered throng.

Oh life is worth the living, to know God lives on
	high,
That the spirit is immortal, and can never, never
	die,
To know that His great kingdom is built upon
	the Rock,
To stand against the wildest, the tempests fiercest
	shock.

Oh life is worth the living, for the wrecks along
	the shore,
Where the wild wave’s dash upon them, and the
	ships return no more,
For they are safely anchored, in the Heaven of
	the blest,
Where the wicked ceasefrom troubling, and the
	weary are at rest. 
							HOPE.


Hilda Stowe, a granddaughter of Harriet
Beecher Stowe, the author of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” will make her debut on the profes-
sional stage next October. Miss Stowe has
had considerable experience as an amateur.
	The proposed new constitution for South
Africa turns over the control of school and
municipal affairs on which women hitherto
have had a vote, to Provincial Councils, for
which women cannot vote. Both Dutch
and British women are protesting vigorously.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		LYDIA ANN ALLEY WELLS.
	So many of the pioneer Saints have pass-
ed away of late that we who are left feel
very keenly the loss of their society and of
their living testimony of the divine mission
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It also
awakens in us many tender emotions and
vivid remembrances of days gone by, when
we passed through stirring scenes and ovents
together.
	One recalls at such times the beautiful
poem of Thomas Moore which expresses the
sentiment of many hearts, lonely because of
those who are no longer with us here.

“Oft in the stilly night,
	Ere slumbers chain has bound me,
Fond Memory brings the light 
	Of other days around me;
		The smiles, the tears,
		Of childhood’s years
	The words of love then spoken,
		The eyes that shone,
		Now dimmed and gone,
	The cheerful hearts now broken!
Thus in the stilly night
	Ere Slumber’s chain hath bound me.
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.

When I remember all
	The friends thus link’d together
I’ve seen around me fall
	Like leaves in wintry weather
		I feel like one,
		Who treads alone
	Some banquet hall deserted,
		Whose lights are fled,
		Whose garlands dead,
	And all but he departed!
Thus in the stilly night,
	Ere Slumber’s chain has bound me,
Sad Memory brings the light
	Of other days around me.”

	So many dear friends have taken their de-
parture of late, to “that bourne from whence
no traveler returns,” that were it not for the
glorious light revealed from heaven, that has
given us an assurance of meeting our loved
ones again, it would be almost unendurable.
We, who believe and who know if we are
faithful to the end, we shall join them sooner
or later where there will be no more death
or sorrow but joy forevermore, ought not to
indulge in excessive grief, but “press on to-
ward the mark of the high calling, in Christ

[Column 2]
Jesus” that we may obtain the rest that re-
mains to those who endure unto the end.
	We cannot help missing those who are
near and dear it is only natural, yet we
would not call them back if we could; and
therefore we bow in submission with the
best grace possible, and try to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord, and not grieve the
Holy Spirit but cherish its divine influence,
and go on our way trying to bear all things
whatsoever experiences or chastenings come
to us.

“They are not lost; they are within the door
That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”

	We need not be forg[-]tful of those that go
away, there are many beautiful things to
cherish in the associations of the past, that
we are happier for remembering, that sweeten
our lives, as it were, and help us in our on-
ward way. The tenderness of the hours we
have spent together can never die out, we
may be absorbed in our daily pursuits but
ever and anon the past comes back to us
and we pause and listen and momentarily
recollection comes like the flash of a meteor
and is gone again.
	Our dear sister and friend of whom we
write has finished her mission here on earth
and has made her calling and election sure,
we verily believe; but it is our duty to re-
cord the life and works of a woman like Sis-
ter Lydia Ann Wells, born at a time when
the gospel was restored in the last dispensa-
tion, privileged to receive its teachings and
gather with the Saints in her youth.
	Sister Wells comes of good Puritan ances-
tors, who came across the ocean in 1834.
The Alleys settled in Lynn, Mass., and the
Symonds, her mother’s family in Salem,
Mass., the same year. George Alley and
Mary Symonds were married in Sept. 15, 1822.
(The first child was Margaret, a daughter,
who subsequently when a beautiful young
woman, became the wife of Brigham Young;
she was the mother of two children, a
daughter and a son, the daughter is well-
known here, Mrs. Evelyn Davis; the son,
Mahonri married Miss Agnes McIntosh and
there were three children; the father died in
1884; one of the sons, Mahonri Young, is
now quite a famous artist and sculptor of
whom Utah is justly proud today.)
	Lydia Ann, the subject of this sketch was
the second child of these goodly people; she
was born on New Year’s day 1828 in Lynn,
Essex Co., Mass. When she was a little
girl, in 1830, her parents moved to Salem,
her mother’s former home, and it was there
in 1841, the Gospel found them. The Elders
were Erastus Snow and Benjamin Winches-
ter; the Alleys were believers at once, and
were baptized in 1842 and started for Nau-
voo the same year. They were late in start-
ing however and ice in the Mississippi
river hindered their progress and they were
obliged to stop first at Alton and again at
Quincy, Illinois, before reaching Nauvoo,
the gathering place of the Saints at that
time.
	Sister Lydia Ann was baptized in 1844


[Column 1]
when sixteen years of age by Elder Erastus
Snow in the Mississippi river at Nauvoo, and
was confirmed a member of the Church by
Elder Amasa Lyman although she had a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel when
she heard the first Elders preach in Salem,
Mass. Concerning the martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, she writes in her re-
cord.
	“I had the privilege of seeing the Prophet
Joseph and listening to his voice and to the
words of inspiration that fell from his lips
shall never forget them they are as vivid
to my mind as if it were but yesterday they
were uttered. I can testify of his divine
mission and know for a surety that he was
a Prophet of the Most High God. I was
there at his martyrdom, and shared the
great sorrow with the people of God, I
looked upon their faces in death and shall
never forget them.”
	Brother and Sister Alley had a very nice
comfortable home in Nauvoo which they
left at the time of the exodus with their
family, except Margaret who had left with
the first company, and moved across the
Mississippi in the summer of 1846, and
camped first on the bank of the river, then
moved about three miles; where there was
an encampment of the Saints, the mother
was very sick but finally recovered through
faith and the gift of healing, and the family
moved on to Farmington, Iowa, after-
wards to Bonaparte; there Brother Alley
stayed a while making preparations for the
longer journey westward. The family were
nearly all sick with fever and ague, some-
times, one could wait on the rest; Brother
Charles Rich persuaded Brother Alley to
leave the large quantity of flour he had
bought to take with him, for the poor Saints
that were there by the wayside so destitute
and he moved on with his teams as far as
Mt. Pisgah, and in the late fall arrived at
Winter Quarters, on the West side of the
Missouri river, the family were all better
and quite enjoyed while there the rest and
quiet once again being free from mobs and
persecution.
	In the spring of 1848, in the company of
President Brigham Young, the Alley family
started for the valley and arrived here on
the twentieth of September, 1848, and have
resided here ever since, they settled in the
Eighth ward where they continued to reside
until the death of Brother and Sister Alley
and their family lived there until very re-
cently.
	Lydia Ann Alley was married to General
Daniel H. Wells April 4, 1852. The mar-
riage ceremony was performed by President
Brigham Young. Her married life has been
a very happy one, although many changes
have taken place during the long years since
that event. The children born to them are
Miss Catharine Wells, Mrs. Mary M. W.
Whitney and Louis R. Wells, all of this
city the grandchildren, Murray Wells Whit-
ney, and Wendall Webb Whitney, and Louis
R. Wells’ children are Daniel Hanmer and
Horace Hanson four grand sons, these with
many others of the Wells family and the
Alley family, her brothers and sisters and
their posterity, all feel the loss here of one
who was a stalwart among them. Three of
the children of Sister Wells passed away in
infancy a beautiful little girl Lucy Ann died
when ten months old a boy named Wilford
Woodruff who died at the age of three
months also Arthur Deming also died when
three months old.
	Sister Wells was a public spirited woman

[Column 2]
energetic and industrious in the extreme,
and though a devoted wife and mother al-
ways found time for public duties and work.
In the year 1868, when the local Relief Soci-
ety was organized in the Thirteenth ward in
this city, she became a member and was
soon after appointed a teacher; in 1873 she
was selected as second counselor to Presi-
dent Rachel Grant, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, now General President over the So-
ciety in all the world was at that time Presi-
dent Grant’s first Counselor. In 1882, Sister
B. W. Smith moved to the Seventeenth
ward and Sister Wells was made First Coun-
selor. Sister Lydia Ann Wells was chosen
to preside over the Primary Association in
the Thirteenth ward in 1882, and held the
position five years. Sister Wells was also
counselor to Sister Ellen C. Clawson, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Salt Lake
Stake in 1882, and filled that office until
Sister Clawson’s death, and when Sister
Camilla Cobb was selected to fill the vacan-
cy caused by the demise of Sister Clawson,
she chose Lydia Ann Wells for her First
Counselor. She held that office until the
division of Salt Lake Stake in 1901, when
all the stake officers were released. In all
these positions for more than thirty years,
Sister Wells was untiring in her labors of
love, a wise counselor, natural leader and a
woman of excellent judgment, one who al-
ways stood for justice, and maintained her
dignity at all times and on all occasions,
with perfect modesty, yet with that tenacity
of purpose which is necessary in any impor-
tant undertaking in fact she was a woman
of great force of character.
	When the sisters of the Church were se-
lected to labor in the Salt Lake Temple, her
name was among those who were chosen
and she continued regularly in the work
until her serious illness. She rejoiced greatly
in her Temple work, and appreciated the
work of the redemption of the dead as much
as it is possible for any woman to do. She
had been privileged to go with her husband
to the St. George, Logan and Manti Temples
and expressed herself most happy in having
these great privileges.
	What the loss of such a woman is to her
immediate family it is impossible to tell in
words hut there is no alternative, it must
be borne and family life must still go on
with those who remain. Sister Wells death
was not unexpected, she had been ailing
some months, and suffered severely during
the last week. She passed into a peaceful
sleep at 11:20 a. m., Friday, August 6. She
breathed her last surrounded by all her im-
mediate family in the gentle sweet influence
of the home she so dearly loved.
	Everything that willing hands and loving
hearts could do had been done and finally
when all was over for her, she was daintily
clothed in spotless linen robes of white,
with the softest white vail that delicate
hands could prepare, and laid in a beautiful
white casket, like a bride adorned for her
husband. The peace and calm that shone
in her face was lovely to behold.
	The funeral services were held at the home
323, Second Ave. Bishop George Romney
presided, the opening hymn was “Farewell all
earthly honors,” rendered by a quartett,
prayer was offered by Elder A. H. Ivins, then
Prof. Horace S. Ensign sang very touching-
ly the beautiful hymn “Resignation.” Pre-
sident John R. Winder paid an eloquent
tribute to the honorable upright life of the
deceased, referred to her faithful labors in
the Temple, her humility and her many ex-

[Column 3]
cellent qualities and faithfulness as a Saint
in very deed.
	Bishop George Romney referred more
especially to her home life and duties in the
ward and her excellent example, and refer-
red to his great respect for the family.
	Sister Emma Ramsay Morris sang “O,
My Father” with deep and tender expression
and in fine voice.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant paid a glowing
tribute to the memory of Sister Wells and
made reference to the consistency of her life
in all its varied phases. He read from the
76th section of the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants, concerning those who abide in
the faith.
	President Joseph F. Smith delivered an
eloquent and powerful discourse upon the
change from death unto life and referred to
the resurrection of the Savior and touched
upon many spiritual truths that had been
revealed through the Scriptures, and again
brought to our attention through the light
of the Gospel in our own day.
	The closing hymn “Who are these arrayed
in white” by the Temple choir was very im-
pressive. Benediction by Elder Nephi Y.
Schofield.
	The floral offerings were abundant and
beautiful from the many loving friends and
relatives, roses, sweet peas and carnations
and the elegant mantle of delicate roses and
sweet peas that lay over the casket was most
exquisite. The pall bearers were the sons
and son in law of President Wells and
a long line of carriages followed the hearse
to the cemetery. The grave was solemnly
dedicated by Apostle Orson F. Whitney and
the last sad rites were over for one dearly
beloved.

“We, too, shall come to the river side,
		One by one
We are nearer its waters each eventide,
		One by one.
We can hear the noise and the dash of the stream
Now and again, through our life’s deep dream.
Sometimes the floods all the banks overflow,
Sometimes in ripples and small waves go,
		One by one.”
								E. B. W.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
In Memoriam of Lydia Ann Alley Wells........
		...........................................E. B. W.	9
Notes and News..............................................	10
Foreign Letters................................................	11
Triennial Report of the National Woman’s
		Relief Society.....Emmeline B. Wells	14
Outline for Mothers Work...............................	15
Relief Society School of Nurses......................	16
	Editorial:—“Our Inland Sea”..................	12
		International Council Delegates......	12
		Laura M. Hyde Miner......................	13
Poetry:—Life is Worth the Living..........Hope	9
		The City of the Saints...Lydia D. Alder	11


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	There are women in the United States who
are equal to the office of President. There have
been many capable queens in history; and
there are as able women in the world today
as in any former age, and as many of them
in America as anywhere else. If Jane
Addams were President she would fill the
office with as much discretion as Mr. Taft, as 
much zeal for righteousness, as Mr. Roose-
velt, and more breadth of mind than either
of them.—Ex.
	Much sympathy is expressed for Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw, president of the Nation-
al Woman’s Suffrage Association, who was
seriously injured in a carriage accident in
Minneapolis a few days ago. It appears
that Dr. Shaw was thrown from the carriage
while going to the station to take a train for
New York, when the horses hauling her car-
riage, became frightened and bolted. Dr.
Shaw was thrown from her carriage and re-
ceived a broken ankle and some bad bruises.
She was returning from the convention of
the National Association at Seattle, and had
stopped in Minneapolis to confer with Pro-
fessor Frances Squire Potter, the newly
elected secretary of the association. It is
said that her injuries will confine her to her
bed for at least three weeks.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.
					I.
Among the Rocky mountains whose grandeur
	poets sing
Where streams of living water from hidden foun-
	tains spring
And crags resound the echoes of fiercest eagle’s
	scream,
In wildest, awe-inspiring mood Nature’s glories
	teem,
There raging, foaming torrents dash madly down
	below,
The mountains grandly tow’ring are capped with
	crystal snow,
As bulwark on the eastside, unbroken there they
	seem.
As sentinels they mutely stand, catch the sun’s
	last gleam,
That falls in crimson glory amid their purple
	haze—
As burnished gold reflecting its glitt’ring fading
	rays.
The panorama changes—a mountain sunset
	grand
Is glinting far and near—shadows deepening o’er
	the land.
The dying glory circling, in clearest liquid blue,
Faces in the Western mountains, with varying
	color’s hue,
Their many frozen peaks seem to glisten mid the
	gold,
And challenge admiration of all who may behold.

					II.
The lake like molten fire, in a burning limpid
	sea,
Is blazing at their feet—sleeping in tranquillity.
Then suddenly they cease, and as wid’ning open
	gate
They let the glory through—on the other side then
	wait
The clouds catch up the radiance, diffusing it on
	high,
And paint the gorgeous colors across the arching
	sky.
Now Ensign smiles approval and dons the crimson
	hue—
Our flag floats there, its many stars in their field
	of blue—
And ours the proudest of them, though new
	among them all,
Partakes of freedom’s spirit, among these moun-
	tains tall.
’Tis here Salt Lake is builded, a city on a hill—
And rising o’er the world, will her destiny fulfill.
By ancients she was seen, all her wondrous beauty
	known, 
Amid prophetic, glowing light is her history
	shown.
The world knows of her Temple—Moroni’s garb
	of gold,
And of her courts and mansions so long ago fore-
	told.

					III.
Her wide laid streets are shaded from Summer’s
	burning sun,
On either side slow murm’ring streams o’er their
	courses run.
Proud Salt Lake City sits enthroned, a Queen in
	the land,
And gazes o’er the nations from her exalted
	stand.
On all their borders discord, war’s crimson tide
	o’er flows;
And widow’s cries and orphan’s moans, telling of
	their woes,
Arise in clouds like incense—float on the heavy
air—
And darken e’en as night clouds, the scene so
	passing fair.

					IV.
A Watchman guards thy fortress, what says he
	of the night?
Do inky clouds lower, shutting out the noon day 
	light?
Must nations ever rise and fall ’mid their armies
	slain?
When will the Great Messiah begin his promised
	reign?
Serenely on the mountains thy glory blazes yet;
And reaches wide as all the world, lovely Deseret.
One smiles upon thy future, e’en like thy sacred
	past,
O’ershadowing with his watch care, and ever it
	will last—
Then shine thou on in splendor, where stern the
	mountains rise,

[Column 2]
The landscape far outstretching fairest ’neath the
	skies—
’Mid this grand scene, thy triumph soon will 
	be; Christ thy King,
Who comes from courts of glory thy diadem will
	bring.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
		FOREIGN LETTERS.
				Plymouth, England,
				July 24th, 1909.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	MY DEAR FRIEND:—I am writing you a
few lines to tell you that I often think of
you in my journeying through this delight-
ful old country. We landed here May 31,
and have been all over England and part of 
Scotland visiting nearly all the old cathe-
drals, castles and ruins. We went through
the Trossacks in Scotland and spent some 
days in the Lake region in England which
we enjoyed very much. I visited Scrooby
Manor where Elder Wm. Brewster one of my
ancestors lived. It made me feel very 
strangely to walk through the rooms where
the Brewsters used to live for the house is
still inhabited though it has been repaired
many times. There are 15 rooms of various
sizes. It was formerly a part of the arch-
episcopal palace of the archbishop of York
but Wm. Brewster lived in it about 20 years.
He was a Cambridge man and private secre-
tary to Davidson the secretary of Queen
Elizabeth who was in disgrace after he made
Queen Elizabeth sign the death warrant of
Mary Queen of Scotts. I also visited Boston
where Brewster and others were imprisoned
and tried for their non-conformity.
	I like England much better than Scot-
land and could be very contented to live 
here. It is strange but several people would 
hardly believe that I am an American be-
cause I spoke without the nasal twang. I 
wonder whether I am acquiring an English
accent, as well as the voice.
	We expect to sail for Germany tomorrow;
my address will be ‘‘Cooks” Berlin for the 
present.
	I send you a sprig of real “heather” with
much love,
		Your Sincere Friend,
			EMMA J. McVICKER.

		London, July 18th, 1909,
			Ivanhoe Hotel.

Dear Sister Wells:—
	’Tis bright and beautiful this Sunday
morning something unusual in London al-
though we have had exceptional weather
ever since we arrived a week ago.
	The four daughters in company of Dr.
Ralph Richards, Thad. Hammond and Elder
Barnes have gone in a Buss to White Chapel,
this morning. I wanted to write to you and
this is my only opportunity. The young
men are coming back to dinner, and then we 
are all going to the Mission House to church
this evening, where we will hear Brother
Hammond speak, and President Rushton
has arranged for me to see and talk to the
sisters.
	We are having a most instructive and in-
teresting trip. Cook’s men have prepared
our course of travel, arranged our sight see-
ing with a competent guide, our hotels, and
in fact every thing for our comfort and 
benefit.
	While in Dublin we were taken for a drive
all over the city, and we were at Lord Aber-

[Column 2]
deen’s country place, saw his picture and the
seat he occupied in the Irish House of Par-
liament, or Legislative Assembly, the church
he and his Lady worship in, they are greatly
beloved by the common people in Ireland.
We saw the monuments, of O’Connor, and
Wellington. We were in Dublin, Art Gal-
leries, etc.
	We went to Killarney from Dublin, went 
on all the beautiful Lakes, in row boats,
visited Kate Karney’s Cottage, on horse
back, drove back to Lake Hotel by coach,
were in Cork two days, bought linen in Bel-
fast, saw them manufacture it from the spin-
ning to where it is bleached and ready for
sale.
	In London we have attended Grand Ope-
ra, seen the best troup in England play—
Sheridan’s wonderful “School for Scandal.”
Went to Westminster Abbey, St. Pauls Ca-
thedral, The House of Lords and Commons,
Art Galleries, “Wallis Collection,” London
Tower, and London’s Bridge. The Thames
River and Waterloo Bridge, Windsor Castle,
Canterbury, Oxford, Leamington, Warwick,
Stratford-on-Avon, the home of Shakespeare,
the house, the school he attended or rather
schoolhouse, the church in which he is 
buried, his garden spot, his monument, etc.
The fine stores, and tomorrow we go to the 
other great College Cambridge.
	The British Museum is a most wonderful
place. We are going to the English Lake-
district on the 21st, and will sail from Queens-
town to Norway on the 27th for a twelve
days cruise; will meet President Lund’s party
perhaps. We have never been ill one mo-
ment except for one day and one night,
while in a dense fog crossing the Ocean. We 
could not possibly be better or happier, ex-
cept if we had all our loved ones, and our 
dear friends with us. We will take a drive
to Hyde Park and Buckingham Palace this
afternoon before going to Church.
	Dear Sister, I do hope, you, Sister Smith,
and all the sisters keep well, give the di-
rectors all my love and best wishes. I wrote
to Sister Smith from Edinburgh. We have
secured our passage home and will sail from 
Naples on the 5th of October, but will not
reach Salt Lake until November 1st or later.
	If you could write to the Swiss Mission
House, I could get your letter and would so
appreciate one. So much comfort I have
taken from the dear little book “Fear Not.”
The elders say Brother and Sister Penrose
went on to the Continent with President A.
H. Lund and party.
	Please tell Sister Beatie that we were in 
Dublin two days and two nights, had plenty
of time to have visited with her son, but
could not find his address in the Pens, nor
at our Hotel Directory. She should have 
given us his address, for we did not know
that it was not one of the mission head-
quarters, and she did.
	I tell you the boys over here are glad to 
see us and come and have a meal at our
hotel with us, and we are much delighted
to have them.
	God bless you, Sister Wells, my husband
and daughters join with me in kind regards.
Excuse my long and disconnected letter for 
I simply could not write less.
		Affectionately,
			J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.


Cicely Hamilton and Marion Holmes will
edit in England a new penny weekly paper
devoted to woman suffrage. It will be the
organ of the Women’s Freedom League.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	AUGUST, 1909.


[Column 1]
“OUR INLAND SEA.”
	Alfred Lambourne’s new book with the
above title, is a study in nature and in lan-
guage as distinctive as its subject is from
ordinary common-place matters. Mr. Lam-
bourne is original in all that he undertakes
although some people maintain that orig-
nality is a myth, but if one admits there be
such a thing, he is certainly original in his
work.
	To attempt to give one an idea of the
book in a paragraph or two is quite impossi-
ble, it will bear reading over and over, and
the writer has not yet read it once consecu-
tively
	Our inland sea is a wonder in itself, it al-
ways has been a sort of a mystery and when
one explains its constituents and dissects it,
so to speak, it detracts from the mythical
charm that makes it, in a sense, poetical
and classical.
	Mr. Lambourne’s book is a classic.
Years hence it will be read with enthusiasm
by classical scholars of that wonderful day
in the future, we look forward to with such
laudable pride. The book ought to be in
every great library in the world.
	Ever since we came to Utah Great Salt
Lake has had an indescribable fascination
about it for some of us, that no other place
in these mountain fastnesses possesses, and
it is not very remarkable that it should
seem so, when one pauses and considers,
there is nothing like it, or even similar, in
this Western Hemisphere.
	But to return to the book, it is really a
poem. The author says it is paragraphs
from a diary (we had never yet heard of a
poetical diary). However, we must believe
what Mr. Lambourne says about his diary.
	The descriptions are viv[-]d, particularly so,
startling, even to one who has a powerful
imagination. If only we [-]ould have pre-
sented a copy to each of those distinguished
ladies who were entertained at Saltair rec-
ently, what a trophy it would have beer to
carry away from America.
	Dear America, has not yet filled its mis-
sion of wonders to the world, many [--]ings
are yet to come to pass, many hidden [--]hs
have already been unfolded by gre[---]d
wise men, many mysteries explaine[-],(but
this is wide of the mark) the book is the ob-
ject now under consideration. It is unique
in its descriptions of the beauty and grand-
eur of the dead sea, and its islands, but the
sea itself is greater than the book, and
makes one feel how incompetent man is to
reproduce with pen, or tongue, or brush that

[Column 2]
which God has made and formed and set in
its proper place. Yet we are glad of the
book, it is glorious to read such magnificent
descriptions, and one thrills with emotion
in contemplating some of the author’s glow-
ing symphonies of rhythmical beauty. And
yet we repeat, the dead sea itself with its
picturesque setting is impossible to put in
any book, by the greatest author, as we be-
hold it in all its phases and surroundings.
	We commend the book to the scholarly
men and women of the world, it is worth
more than double its money value, it is a
book that will outlive its contemporaries,
but the inland sea and its setting in these
mountain vales has been and is an inspira-
tion of inestimable value to those who be-
hold the infinite glory of the handiwork of
the Almighty, the Ruler and Author of the
universe.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL DELEGATES
	The foreign delegates that had been in
attendance at the Quinquennial sessions of
the International Council in Toronto, Can-
ada, came through Salt Lake on their re-
turn trip. The National Woman’s Relief
Society was notified beforehand and request-
ed to call on other organizations affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States and make preparations to
entertain the distinguished party on their
arrival; accordingly the Young Ladies’ N. 
M. I. A. was notified, as these two are the
largest societies. The Maccabes, Woman’s
Relief Corps, Jewish Council, Woman’s Suf-
frage Council and National Christian
League, local aocieties, were also notified,
seven organisations; committees from these
came together and eleeted a chairman, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, of the Relief Society, and a secre-
tary, Miss Ann M. Cannon, of the
Young Ladies, and commenced to discuss
matters relative to a plan of entertainment.
There was a feeling of unity of effort and
harmony prevailing, and as time went on
plans were suggested and were carefully con-
sidered. The time designated in the letter
received for the party to remain, was so
short (from 6:45 p. m. to 8:15 a. m.) that it
was difficult to determine what was best. The
letter stated that the ladies would have din-
ner on the train and would only wish for a
light luncheon, etc., etc.
	The unanimous conclusion arrived at after
much deliberation, was to meet the ladies at
the station, have a musical recital at the
Tabernacle if possible, take them to Saltair,
partake of luncheon there, and those who
desired to try the bathing do so; meantime,
while seated at table to have the Governor
of the state, or the Mayor of the city, or some
prominent citizen welcome them to the
Mecca of the West, and then to have some
responses from the foreign delegates.
	At a regular meeting of the committees,
when there were representatives from each
of the seven organlzations present, Mrs. E.
B. Wells was elected toastmistress and also
Chairman of the Committee on Invitation,
and there seemed to be a perfect under-
standing of the matter.
	The day was looked forward to with great
expectations, as it was known it was a very
distinguished party, and naturally the ladies
directly interested in the entertainment were
anxious to make the affair as perfect a suc-
cess as possible.
	The ladies arrived an hour earlier than
the schedule time, and were escorted to the
tabernacle where through the courtesy of

[Column 2]
the First Presidency of the Church, a fine
musical program was rendered by Professor
Edward P. Kimball, after which Elder B. H.
Goddard very kindly explained in an inter-
esting manner, facts connected with the
building of the famous Tabernacle and the
great Temple.
	The party, in charge of members of the
Committee, were taken in automobiles, car-
riages and cars to Saltair depot, and were
soon en route for the famous Dead Sea of
America. The sunset was magnificent and
was greatly enjoyed by the ladies, and after
arriving, those who wished to do so, availed
themselves of the opportunity of a bath in
this renowned and unique inland sea,
whose strange beauty with its glorious sun-
sets is entrancing to the beholder, especially
to one poetical by nature, and invariably re-
minds one of Moore’s exquisite poem:

“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
And memory breathes its vesper sigh to thee.
And as I watch the line of light that plays,
Along the smooth wave to the burning West,
I long to tread that golden path of rays,
And think ’twould lead to some bright isle of
	rest.”

	There was very little opportunity for con-
sultation with the guests to ascertain from
them what would be most pleasing, and a
word here and there or a partial introduc-
tion, very informal, was all those in charge
could make possible.
	Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, who had met
some of the delegates in Toronto while at-
tending the Council, went to Ogden to meet
them, accompanied by Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon, and they did whatever was possi-
ble to help with introductions and to make
these guests of honor feel how delighted the
citizens of Utah were to have such celebrated
women guests of our city. Salt Lake was
honored in receiving these wonderful women
from so many countries, speaking different
languages, and their visit to America was
an event such as has not transpired before in
history. The “Toronto papers said they were
the most distinguished women from all parts
of the globe, and they were representative
women of the countries from which they
came.” They not only represented coun-
tries but subjects of vital importance to
[-]umanity at large, for the uplifting and bet-
terment of all mankind. They were not
traveling about for pleasure, but to help the
great work of progress in various directions
to reach all parts of the great w[-]rld. These
grand women are aiding in the crusade
against all forms of vice and evils, and spread-
ing enlightenment abroad, and among those
who sit in darkness. Their attainments on
grave educati[---] scientific questions
are very great [---] [--]ey are endeavoring to
solve the most [---]cult problems of real life;
and many of t[--]m have already rendered
valuable service various capacities. They
are not only women of thought, but of ac-
tion, helping to move the world forward.
	Perhaps some of those who saw them,
considered very little about the great work
these tired travelers were engaged ln doing. 
There was neither time nor opportunity for
communication with them or even momen-
tary conversation—in this respect the affair
was very unsatisfactory, but even had there
been a formal reception in some large hall,
there would have been scarcely time to more
than shake hands. It was a large party, and
take it all in all, the committee were
obliged to submit to conditions as they de-


[Column 1]
veloped after reaching Saltair. Three long
tables for the luncheon were arranged on the
lower floor of the pavilion decorated with
sweet peas and late roses in every shade of
color, and looked very inviting and artistic.
	The toastmistress, in opening her remarks,
referred to the brilliant company assembled,
representing many countries, and languages,
and repeated a stanza of Longfellow which
seemed an appropriate setting:

“Ships that pass in the night and speak each other
	in passing,
Only a signal shown, and a distant voice in the
	darkness.
So on the ocean of life, we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again and a
	silence.”

	Mrs. Wells’ welcome was genuine, and
she betrayed a depth of emotion in speaking
of the honor of entertaining such distin-
guished guests, and the sentiment of the peo-
ple of Utah desiring peace and good will to
all mankind—she announced to make the
address of welcome,
 
	HON. JOHN HENRY SMITH.
Who cordially welcomed the visitors in the
name of a people who, loved liberty and ex-
tended the hand of fellowship and love to
people of all nations and creeds. He said,
“we have noble men and women among us,
who delight to greet you;” and he, hoped
that reciprocal pleasure and good will
would attend this auspicious occasion; he
referred to the people who founded this
commonwealth as from all nations and near-
ly every language having representatives in
the state.
	Miss Emily Janes President of the Nation-
al Council of Great Britain was the first
to respond to the welcome. She said in part
that in crossing the American continent from
the Atlantic to the Pacific she had found
nothing more striking than that in the desert
through which she had just passed and this
beautiful city. She rejoiced that the people
of these localities were being drawn together
in the association of the great national and
international Councils; the journey had not
been so much a lesson in the achievements
of industry and art, as of the oneness of
humanity. In closing Miss Janes expressed
on behalf of the British Council appreciation
and gratitude to the women of Utah for their
warm welcome.
	Rabbi Charles Freund took for his toast
the “Jewish Idea of Woman”—and referred
to the sentiment prevailing among them,
that woman was the inspiration for all
things great and goo[-] and that any people
that held this ideal woman stood for a
high civilization, the nor of his remarks
were along this line of thought, and he
closed by wishing the delegation God-speed
on its homeward way with pleasant memo-
ries of the visit.
	Frau Marie Stritt President of the National
Council of Germany, after expressing thanks
for the warm hospitality, accorded the
party, and that a succession of wonders had
met them from shore to shore on their way
to the West, and that new wonders were
now meeting them on their way back; and
one of the most delightful experiences was
coming to Salt Lake where they met per-
sonal friends, some who had been at the
Congress in Berlin, and spoke of Mrs. Horne,
who is now in Seattle, who was pointed out
as a woman who had sat in Parliament,
(meaning the Legislature of Utah). Frau
Stritt expressed sincere thanks in behalf of

[Column 2]
the German delegation, she was most en-
thusiastic in her speech.
	Madamoiselle Popelin President National
Council of Belgium spoke very effectively
and after a few words in English and feel-
ing she could give freer expression to her
feelings, burst into eloquent utterance in
French; her enthusiasm regarding the sun-
set and the stars coming out one by one was
a scene she could never forget; they had
queried on the long dusty journey what
would compensate for their discomfort, Salt
Lake had generously answered that question
to every heart.
	Froken Kroeg of Norway, President of the
National Council of Norway said her special-
ity in speaking was suffrage, but in Utah
there was no chance for the women had won
it, she was instantly informed that the men
had given it—and Hon. John Henry Smith
told the ladies he was Chairman of the Con-
vention which made woman’s franchise pos-
sible in Utah.
	Baroness Ellen Von Platen representing
the Swedish Council of Women Spoke most
appreciatively of the welcome extended, and
specially of the musical program in the Ta-
bernacle; “she was sure where all were work-
ing for good purposes, harmony must be the
outcome.” The Swedish people here were
proud to have a woman of distinction and
title from their own country.
	Miss Fries of Holland was very humorous
in her little speech, of the trip across the
continent, and declared she was a better
dancer than speaker; and if she had her na-
tional costume she would rather dance then
try to speak; she alluded to the Dutch an-
cestry of American people and spoke with
pride of Roosevelt as a typical descendant
of Holland Dutch.
	The Marchesa Beamon Del Monte of Italy
spoke for the National Council of Italy, al-
luded in the most glowing terms to the sun-
set she had seen on the Great Salt Lake and
that it had never been surpassed by any she
had seen in Italy; she expressed great pleas-
ure in her visit and was enthusiastic on the
subject of the welcome given them.
	The program of toasts closed with a poem
by Ruth M. Fox, Vice-President of the Y.
L. N. M. I. A bringing into the stanzas the
motto of the Council “Lead Kindly Light.”
	The toastmistress expressed a fervent wish
that only pleasant memories should be taken
home by the visitors, and the hope of a safe
journey to their homes, and the gathering
closed with farewells—Committees accom-
panying the ladies to their train where final
farewells were exchanged.
	The great regret of the Committees and
guests was that there was so little time to
exchange greetings, there were many of the
guests from whom all wished to hear, but
lack of time rendered it impossible.
	Among those present the writer was most
anxious should he seen and heard were Miss
Marion B. Blackie and Miss M. M. Ander-
son of Scotland, Miss M. E. Creighton of
Carlisle, England, sister of the late Lord
Bishop of London, Miss Wilkinson of Eng-
land, Principal of Swanley Horticultural Col-
lege, Mrs.Willonghby Cummings of Toronto,
Canada, Miss Baelde President of the Natio-
nal Council of Holland, and Misses Van
Vorst Van Boost also of Holland. Mrs.
Leo Grindon of Manchester, England, a
woman well-versed in social science, and
who has published several dissertations on
Shakespeare’s plays, a lady of fine culture
and broad views on religious and social
questions.
	Miss Sadie American and her mother, and

[Column 3]
dear Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and
dozens more with and without titles. Mrs.
Anna Hansen who represented the National
Council of Denmark declined to speak on
account of having taken cold, and of hoarse-
ness.
	These, celebrated women represented al-
most every phase of real human life, Woman
suffrage, Peace and Arbitration, White Slave
Traffic, Laws for Women Workers, Protec-
tive Work for children, Public Play Grounds,
Juvenile Courts, Municipal Government,
Women’s Activities in Trades and Professions,
Educational Ideas. Crusade against Tuber-
culosis and for Prohibition. These are only a
few of the subjects which they are studying
and have under discussion.
	There are 23 countries where National
Councils have been organized, and efforts
are in progress to organize National Coun-
cils in Turkey, Finland, Egypt, Russia and
the Argentine Republic.
	In the near future we will give a list of
the names of the women who honored the
citizens with their presence in Salt Lake City
on July 16 and 17, 1909. The occasion was
one never to be forgotten by those who par-
ticipated therein.
	The most honored guests from our own
city and from our own standpoint were Pre-
sident Joseph F. Smith and wife, and Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith of the National
Woman’s Relief Society affiliated with the
National Council of Women of the United
States and of which she is one of the Execu-
tive Committee of nine.
	At the Quinquennial of the International
Council in Toronto, Canada officers were
elected for the time of five years. The Coun-
tess of Aberdeen whose term of office had
expired was re-elected President, the Hon.
Cor. Sec’y Mrs. Maria M. Ogilvie Gordon
elected First Vice-President, Countess Spa-
lette Rasponi of Italy, Second Vice-President,
Frau Marianne Hainisch of Austria, Third
Vice-President, Mrs. Sanford of Canada,
Honorary Treasurer, Dr. Alexander Skogland
of Sweden, Recording Secretary, Dr. Alice
Salomon of Germany, Corresponding Secre-
tary.
	The National Council of the United States
in its Triennial held at Seattle, elected for
the ensuing term of three years, Mrs. Lillian
M. Hollister President; Mrs. Kate Waller
Barratt Vice-President, Mrs. M. Josie Nelson
Treasurer, Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller Cor.
Sec’y, Dr. Emma E. Bower Rec. Sec‘y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LAURA M. HYDE MINER.
Of all the virtues that unite to frame,
The lofty column reared to Duty's name
Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
The deeds of those whose names refuse to die,
O’er-crowning all in triumph of device
Is woman's life of love—Self-sacrifice.
O. F. W.
	The news of the demise of Sister Miner
came with a sudden shock to her friends of
former days, those who had known her in-
timately but almost lost sight of her for the
last few years, yet who loved her s[-]ill and
held her in the ties of sacred friendship.
Such women as Laura Miner are as scarce
as pearls; she was a jewel so to speak, full
of intelligence and rich in wisdom, a woman
of excellent judgment, and superior ability.
Her nobility of soul was unquestionable,
and when one can say of her that she pos-
sessed all the virtues of a true Saint of God,
and was eminently qualified to minister in
holy temples, it is the highest encomium
one can receive. Sister Miner officiated in


[Column 1]
the Logan Temple for many years and had
been greatly beloved by her co-laborers.
	Laura H. Miner was a valuable member
of the Board of Directors of the General Re-
lief Society for about seven or eight years,
continui[-]g on the Board sometime after she
moved to Logan, although it was incon-
venient for her to attend meetings. She was
also a member of the Reaper's Social and
was with us at the first meeting when the
name was de[-]ided upon and colors were
chosen, and took part in the literary and
social exercises.
	Sister Miner was a brilliant conversation-
alist, a rare quality in women, a great reader
and good story-teller; she was a writer of
merit of both prose and poetry although
she only occasionally allowed anything writ-
ten by her to appear in print. She was a
woman of culture and fine manners, and of
broad mind and liberal views, genuine and
true to the heart's core; a woman with whom
it was uplifting to have social intercourse,
and fitted to shine in any place at home or
abroad.
	Laura Marinda Hyde was the daughter of
Apostle Orson Hyde, one of the first Quorum
of Apostles of the early days of the Church,
and of Marinda N. Johnson Hyde one of the
most distinguished women of her time; with
the environment of such a home in early
life, she had advantages in education and
home training that carefully prepared her
for wife and motherhood, even though during
those early years of her girlhood the Latter-
day Saints were not in circumstances to af-
ford higher education for their children, be-
ing driven hither and thither, until they
reached these mountain vales.
	Laura was the eldest daughter of her pa-
rents and was born in Kirtland, Ohio, May
21, 1837, she was married to Aurelius Miner
since known as Judge, then a rising young
lawyer fresh from college, May 30, 1859,
a very beautiful and accomplished young
girl, as the writer well remembers.
	Her children now living. (the first born, a
boy, died in infancy) are Dr. David O. Miner
of Nephi, Utah; Laura Elvira, wife of John
McDonald. Jr., of this city; Lavilla, wife of
Wallace Fenton; another son, Frederick
William Miner, Miss Alice Winnefred Miner,
Lillian, wife of Bert Slusser; Florence, wife
of Alvin D. Thompson; Idala, the youngest,
now the wife of J. E. Shepherd.
	Sister Miner leaves beside her own chil-
dren six daughters and two sons; thirteen
grandchildren who deeply mourn her great
loss to them for she was a most affectionate
mother deep down in her very nature;
motherly to many besides her very own, who
also feel keenly her great loss.
	Her own brothers and sisters now living,
children of Orson and Marinda Hyde are
Emily Hyde Chase, very well known and
greatly admired in her palmy days, Alonzo
E. Hyde, and Zina Hyde Bull, all of this
City. Frank Hyde the eldest son died re-
cently and Delia Hyde Ellis, an uncommon-
ly brilliant woman, who died not long ago:
with children and grandchildren there are
living, quite a large number of Marinda
Johnson Hyde's posterity.
	The funeral services of this excellent
woman were held in the Seventeenth ward
chapel on Thursday, August 12, at 4 p. m.,
conducted by Bishop F. S. Tingey. The hall
was beautifully draped in white, by the Re-
lief Society, of which Sister Marinda Hyde
was President from its organization until her
death. The platform was banked with lovely
flowers and the casket in front covered with
flowers rare and delicate tokens of love and

[Column 2]
esteem, emblems of purity and devotion
from the many friends of the family.
	On the Stand were Presidents Joseph F.
Smith and John R. Winder, with other lead-
ing brethren including Hon. W. W. Riter.
The opening hymn was sung by the 17th
ward choir; Lizzie Thomas Edward leading
Soprano, taking part in singing "When first
the glorious light of truth," etc. Prayer was
offered by Seymour B. Young.
	Prof. Fred C. Graham sang in sympathetic
voice "Sometime, We'll Understand."
	Hon. W. W. Riter spoke in very eulogistic
terms of the many delightful qualities of the
deceased and of her staunch and intense
faith in the principles of the Gospel.
	President John R. Winder spoke briefly
of her faith, her purity of life and devotion
and her great works.
	President Joseph F. Smith, who had
known her from his childhood spoke of her
with much depth of feeling, and also of her
highly esteemed mother whom he had
known even more intimately, and preached
a thrilling discourse on the Gospel of life
and salvation.
	Sisters Edward and Winder sang "Who
are these arrayed in w[-]ite." Benediction
was offered by Elder Duncan McAllister and
the casket was borne from the hall followed
by her relatives and friends to its last resting
place on the hillside.
	The writer has known Laura Hyde Miner
from the days of Nauvoo until now, lived very
near her for years on the Whitney corner,
and has always held her very dear as com-
panion, and friend.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TRIENNIAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL
	WOMAN’S RELIEF SOCIETY.
Madam President, Officers and Members of
	the National Council of Women of the
	United States;
DEAR FRIENDS;—
	The National Woman’s Relief Society
with headquarters in Salt Lake City, Utah,
had its origin in the City of Nauvoo, Ill., at
a called meeting of a few progressive women
held in the Masonic Hall, eighteen in number,
the President of this magnificent Society is
the only living member of that small but
memorable beginning on the seventeenth of
March 1842, sixty-seven years ago. It was
christened then and there by that select com-
pany, The Relief Society, and much charit-
able work was done there during those first
years. Since that time, the Society has
spread abroad until we can truthfully say,
the sun never sets upon this organization.
The Society stands for the broadest funda-
mental principles of charity and philan-
thropy. It has reached nearly all civilized
lands upon the two continents, and has
many branches upon the islands of the sea.
	Enumerating the countries we can include
the United States, Mexico and Canada,
across the Atlantic—England, Scotland, Ire-
land and Wales, Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark with some of the adjacent islands, and
very recently the land of the midnight sun.
Other European countries are Germany,
Switzerland, Greece, Turkey, Holland and 
Belgium; also Australia, Tasmania, New
Zealand, South Africa, Sandwich Islands
and Samoa, thus it is evident the Society is
International as well as National in scope
and character. All are included under the
General President and staff of officers, who
look after the entire Society, but necessarily
there are many Presidents with their local

[Column 2]
officers, who have charge of divisions and
subdivisions; all harmoniously working for
the best good in the given Society, and for
the betterment of the united whole.
	Much of the information needed is given
by correspondence, and through the Woman’s
Exponent, a paper devoted to women and
to the work of this Society in particular. It
is the oldest woman’s paper in the Rocky
Mountain region established in June 1872.
	Women missionaries visit annually under
the direction of the President, and attend
conferences held at designated places at a 
stated time. These missionaries are inde-
fatigable in their efforts, often encountering
many difficulties, giving freely of their time
and ability with zeal and devotion in the
work of uplifting humanity; not only in 
public speaking, but in special instruction,
to women, who have not had the larger op-
portunities of gaining knowledge and educa-
tion, sometimes not even special home train-
ing.
	We maintain that mothers need help out-
side of their own circle; a sort of develop-
ment that reaches their inner consciousness
and causes an awakening, leading into larger
fields of interest and thought, as well as
bringing them into closer relations with real
life; always uplifting in its tendency, cheer-
ing the spirit, and strengthening the body,
making life’s burdens easier by affiliation
and union of purpose in many directions in
neighborhoods and groups, withal teaching
the practicality of the saying of the Savior,
“Love thy neighbor as thyself.”
	Our work is large indeed, covering a vast
area of country, requiring other languages
to be spoken, and the knowledge of human
affairs in the realm of woman’s kingdom,
and an expansion of mind and soul, heart
and brain to the highest excellence of attain-
ment within the range of woman’s possibili-
ties.
	We are obliged to deal in generalities to
give an idea of our methods of work for the
advancement of those who are out of “the
schools,” so designated, but have entered
the highest school of the world, The Home.
	Home life, parenthood, the problem that
if solved by the loftiest and grandest aims
and motives would bring to pass, the most
perfect civilization of communities and 
countries, revolutionizing society, and there-
by establishing the broadest philanthropy
the world has ever known.
	But however we may idealize our Society
the work must be done by physical, mental,
moral and spiritual activities, in all the
avenues that lead to usefulness and adapta-
bility; there must be facilities; houses, halls,
machinery, storehouses, libraries, and will-
ing hearts and hands for the accomplishment
of the various purposes undertaken.
	The Relief Society School of Nurses under
the immediate direction of the general Soci-
ety with a woman physician as Instructor,
aided by lectures from other celebrated med-
ical men and women has been a grand fac-
tor in our charitable work, and was fully ex-
plained in last years’ annual report. This
school has graduated hundreds of nurses,
who have passed a rigid examination and
gone out among the people under the direc-
tion of the Superintendent of Nurses who
takes charge of them after graduation.
	During this last year the Society has ap-
propriated about one thousand dollars to
purchase linen and material desired for use
in the L. D. S. Groves Hospital in this City,
and the articles have been cut and made by
the women of the Society freely as a labor
of love.


The storing of grain by this Society is one
unique feature, something never before un-
dertaken by women. It was begun in 1876,
and has been of value and importance in
our own community, and has also given us
an opportunity to relieve want in times of
calamity, not only near home, in San Fran-
ci co, but abroad in China.
	It is not a joke as some seem to think,
but to those who have known the times of
scarcity a sacred obligation.
	In last years report we mentioned the ex-
pectation of the Woman’s Building being
ready for occupancy in June of this year,
1909, but it has not yet been finished; we
hope now it will be completed in October
of this year.
	We cannot close this official report with-
out an expression of appreciation of our be-
loved and venerable President Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith whose life long efforts in
the interests of philanthropic endeavor have
ever been a loyal example and an inspira-
tion, and her beautiful life is of itself a
blessing and a benediction.
	It is always sad to record the passing of
women in the prime of life, and in the midst
of usefulness, but in this instance it is un-
avoidable, however deep our sorrow at the
loss. Since our last report in November
1908 two of the valued members of our
Board of Directors of the National Woman’s
Relief Society have gone behind the vail.
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde, First Vice-Presi-
dent of this Society passed peacefully away,
March 12, 1909, in the full tide of her use-
fulness, being stricken down only a few
months previous to her passing away. De-
ceased has filled several positions of trust
and responsibility for which she was emi-
nently qualified by nature and education;
Mrs. Hyde attended the Triennial Session
of the N. C.W. held in Washington in 1902,
as Proxy for the President, and will doubt-
less be remembered by many of the ladies
who were there at that time.
	Mrs. Rebecca E. Mantle Little another of
our Board, passed to the beyond, May 29,
1909; she was a graduate of the Utah Uni-
versity and one of the Regents of that Insti-
tution for a number of years; and had taken
a degree of Bachelor of Science. Mrs. Little
attended the Executive Session of the Na-
tional Council of Women held in Toledo,
Ohio, in April, 1906, and became a Patron
of the Council while there, and took an ac-
tive part in its proceedings. These noble
women will be greatly missed in the Society
for their valuable service in the cause of
higher education, equal suffrage and uni-
versal pr gress of the world at large.
	In the joyful and loving service of minis-
tering to the needs and sorrows of others,
we find our own souls benefited, and our or-
ganization stands for the alleviation of the
woes of humanity, so far as human aid and
sympathy can extend, and the spiritual up-
lifting may be exercised in the tenderest
and most far reaching way, always keeping
in mind the motto of the Council the “Gold-
en Rule” To do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	With greetings from the President, the of-
ficers and members of the National Woman’s
Relief Society and an ardent desire to co-
operate with the National Council in pro-
moting the efforts made for the progress of
humanity along all the avenues that lead to
justice and righteousness, we are fraternally
yours
		Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		General Secretary N.W. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OUTLINE FOR MOTHERS WORK.
	MORGAN STAKE.
Lesson 1. The Sin of Gossip.
	“Nay speak no ill, a kindly word,
	Can never leave a sting behind.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts taught
by Jesus none is more important or less re-
garded than “Judge not that ye be not judg-
ed” (Matt. 7: 1). “A good tree cannot
bring forth evil fruit” (Matt. 7: 18).

Lesson 2. What Influence has Evil Speak-
	ing.
	(a) Does it harm the speaker (Psalm 34:
13; I Peter 3: 10, 11). Its Influence on chil-
dren. (b) Explain how it may mar the life,
or place a dark blot on the character of the
one spoken of, also the influence it has on
the public, (James 3: 5, 6, 8; Prov. 25: 23—
26: 18, 20).
	“Be not the first to speak it
	If you a fault should see.”

Lesson 3. Parable of the Ten Talents
	(Matt. 25: 14-30).
	What talent do I possess and do I culti-
vate it. Patience, Faith, Cheerfulness, the
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that helps to make life better and
brighter are talents that should be cultivat-
ed.

Lesson 4. Language in the Home.
	Give meaning of Mother Tongue, “He that
hath a perverse tongue falleth into mis-
chief.” Impure language displeasing unto
the Lord read James 3; Matt. 12: 36. Cor-
rect language necessary at all times and in
all places.

Lesson 5. Habit.
	How shall we form good habits? How
shall we teach the value of good habits to
our children (read Improvement Era, March
1903, p.377; Juvenile Instructor, March 15,
1900; Young Woman’s Journal, October
1906).

Lesson 6. Proper Home Ideals.
	The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization, “For as a man thinketh in his
heart so is he” (Prov. 23: 7). “Be ye per-
fect even as your Father in Heaven is per-
fect,” (Matt. 5: 48; II Samuel 22: 31). Aspi-
ration to excel in everything that is good or
praiseworthy should be instilled,encouraged
and developed in our children. Why? (Ar-
ticles of Faith 13). The love of order and
cleanliness should be so highly developed
that every member of the family would be
uncomfortable when conditions were other-
wise.

Lesson 7. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure one must store the
mind with pure enobling thoughts.” “Bles-
sed are the pure in heart for they shall see
God (Matt., 5: 8).
	(a) Avoid slander, vulgar language and im-
politeness.
	(b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
	(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity, good-
ness and pure thoughts (Eph. 5: 3, 4).

Lesson 8. Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other.
	2. Of parents for children.
	3. Of children for parents.

[Column 2]
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and His love is perfect-
ed in us, (John 4: 13). Thou shalt live to-
gether in love (Doc. and Cov. 42, 45; see
Doc. and Cov. 121: 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
anothers’ feelings.

Lesson 9. Temperance and the Word of
	of Wisdom.
	Effects of example and how extensive?
What physical benefit? What spiritual bene-
fits to be derived there from?

Lesson 10.
	How the father should counsel his sons—
work as an educator.

Lesson 11. Companionship of mothers and
	daughters.
	Motherhood and its responsibilities. 

Lesson 12.
	(a) Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Improve-
ment in home life.
	(b) Responsibility of teaching the gospel
a very essential duty, (Mark 15. 16.
			LYDIA RICH,
					President.
			MARY J. WELCH,
			MARYETTE WALDRON,
					Counselors.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
	I do not expect to write one tenth of my
experience but merely to give an outline of
some of the incidents in my life’s history, it
is impossible for me to give exact dates as
I never kept a memorandum, therefore I
could not make a complete history.
	I was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York State, of good-
ly parents, Aaron Alexander and Betsy Alex-
ander, on the 14th of May, 1816. My father
died when I was four years old; he left my
mother in comfortable circumstances with
a small farm; she had four small children,
the eldest but six years old. Mother felt
that she could not take care of the farm and
sold the place and was to receive the money
for it, the man that bought it failed, in busi-
ness and never paid her, consequently it left
her destitute and she had to put out her
three oldest children. I was the second
child; it fell to my lot to go to my grand-
father on mother’s side, to live in Herkimer
Co., 100 miles from mother. I was now five
years old; my uncles and aunts were all
grown and most of them married and gone
away. I was quite a favorite in the family
and kept in school most of the time, but as
grew up I learned to spin flax and wool,
and also to weave cloth in the summer, and
then go to school in the winter; when I was
thirteen years old, there was quite a revival
in the town among the Methodists; I had
been trained always to go to their church
and Sunday school in which I took great
delight, for I had a religious turn of mind,
and when this reformation broke out I felt
as though I wanted to get religion and be
happy as others seemed to be. I tried to
get that change of heart and would go off


[Column 1]
alone by myself and take the Bible and read
and pray but I could feel no different, so I
never joined their church; when I was fifteen
years of age my mother came to see me and
stayed one year; I became so much attached
to her that I could not bear the idea of be-
ing separated from her again; when she was
preparing to leave I told her I wanted to go
with her; she finally consented. I knew I
was leaving a good home where I had been
kindly cared for, and knew too that mother
had no home of her own; still I had a great
anxiety to go and take the change of a home.
I was going to school at the time, I bade the
school and my friends good-bye and went
with my mother. When we arrived at Jef-
ferson Co. I was again placed in school for
the winter, in the spring I was offered a
school to teach but I declined; I thought I
was too young being only sixteen years old;
so I went to live with Abram Tracy’s family,
his wife was my mother’s cousin; while there
I became acquainted with his brother Moses
Tracy, an attachment sprung up between
us and on the 15th day of July we were
married; this was in the year 1832. My
husband then took me home to his father’s
to live until we could get a home of our
own; in the fall we went to house-keeping,
the winter passed off very pleasantly with
us; and in the spring of 1833 there was quite
a sensation created by a new set of minis-
ters that came around preaching, called
Mormonism; we heard all sorts of stories
and did not know what to think of them,
such frightful stories were told; at length we
heard of an appointment, that one David
W. Patten was going to preach about two
miles from where we lived a curiosity seized
me and I felt I must go and hear him; so
three of us went together. Ensign Tracy’s
wife Lydia, Margaret Minor, and myself: and
to our astonishment beheld a tall stately
looking man with piercing black eyes; he
arose and gave out a hymn we expected to
see some one hardly in human form; from
what we had heard, but instead I could at a
glance see the noble spirit he possessed
beaming in his countenance; and when he
began to speak it was with such force and
power before he was half through I could
have borne my testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and the doctrine he was preaching;
never before had I heard the true Gospel as
the Savior and his Apostles had taught it
while they were on the earth; but this man
had now given us a pure Gospel sermon and
I believed it with all my heart, and would
have gladly gone down into the waters of
baptism, but I wanted my husband to hear
it first, and come along with me; these
Elders preached often in the neighborhood
and many became convinced of the truth of
the Gospel and were baptized and finally
quite a large branch of the Church was
organized in the town of Ellisburgh. My
husband did not seem to believe as readily
as I would have liked, but still I believed
when he would give himself up to investi-
gate the Gospel he would embrace it for I
knew he was honest of heart.
	November the 25th, 1833, our first son
was born and for a long time I lay as it were
at death’s door; the presiding Elder of the
branch use to come to our house and would
talk about the Gospel and its ordinances,
and I felt a great desire to be administered
to, but I was surrounded by unbelievers, and
had not obeyed the ordinance of baptism, as
had felt constrained to do and felt that I
was unworthy to ask for the blessing but I
determined if the Lord would let me live to
go forth in the discharge of what I knew was

[Column 2]
my duty; in the spring my husband seemed
to take hold and commenced going to meet-
ing and studying the Bible and finally to my
great satisfaction said he was ready to be
baptized. I had measurably regained my
health and on the 10th day of May, 1834,
we were both baptized by Elder Thomas
Dutcher.
	At that early day the opposite power was
at work filling the minds of the people with
prejudice the pulpit and press had com-
menced a tirade against the Mormons and
my relatives thought I had brought a great
stain upon myself and them in embracing
such a delusion, as they called it; they
would send me the papers of the day with
the most vile slander and falsehoods to see
if they could not reclaim me; but I was not
moved; I felt humble and felt to thank God
that my soul was at last satisfied, thus far;
that I had embraced truth instead of error
and it was marvelous to me how I had es-
caped while in tender years of uniting with
some of the religions of the day, I was
brought up so strictly amongst them I felt
to acknowledge the hand of God that I had
been preserved with my heart pure to listen
to the voice of the good Shepherd. The Gos-
pel spread and a good many large branches
were organized through Jefferson Co. and
adjoining counties; the gifts and blessings
of the Gospel were poured out upon those
that had embraced it in rich profusion. One
instance which I will relate that came di-
rectly under my observation of the gift of
healing.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of see
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of t[-]ose coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay

[Column 2]
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage.
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes, where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
lies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City,
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen'l Sec'y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
Gen'l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.


OBSTETRIC SCHOOL.
	Margaret C. Roberts, M. D. will com-
mence her School in Obstetrics October 11,
1909. $50.00 Tuition.
	Students attending this school can attend,
free of charge, the Relief Society Nurse
School which will also be taught by Dr.
Roberts.
	It is suggested that the Presidents of the
Relief Society everywhere confer with their
Bishops and with Presidents of the Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associations
on the important subject of having skilful
midwives in their respective communities.
	For further information communicate with
		DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
			79 C Street, Salt Lake City
				Telephone 2002

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to letter the Home, the State and the Nation.

