[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Unusual Mothers]

Unusual Mothers. NELLIE KENNER SNOW. Of Sanpete Stake. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. The subject of this sketch, Mrs. NelHe Kenner Snow, is the mother of eighteen children, thirteen of whom are hving. She was born in Utah 51 years ago. Her parents were among the early settlers of Sterling, South Sanpete, Utah. In this small village the greater part of Nellie's childhood was spent. She speaks of one incident in her early childhood as being of a very tragical nature. It was on the afternoon of the Fourth of Jnly, when most of the villagers were away from town celebrating Independence Day, when a fire broke out at the home of Mr. D. B. Funk, burning his wife and child to death. Nellie, together with her two older sisters, were the first to appear on the scene. Mrs. Snow was married at the age of sixteen to Warren C. Snow, on the 31st of October, 1882. On the following day the young couple started for St. George, traveling by team, for the purpose of receiving their endowments in the St. George temple. They remained there (for a short time doing ordinance work for the dead. After their return they made Sterling their home until the year MRS. NELLIE KENNER SNOW. 1892, when Sister Snow, together with her husband and seven children, removed to Kingston, Piute county, with the intention of improving their condition financially in procuring some land for farming purposes. They ffiiled. however, in this enterprise, because of their inability to secure a proper water title. After struggling for two years under trials and difficulties 
 which seemed at times very discouraging, they returned to Sterhng and purchased a small lot upon which to build a house which might be called their own. Tn addition to this undertaking they were endeavoring to earn an honest livelihood for the maintenance of a large anfl growing family, but were frequently curtailed it their progress through sickness and ill-health. In the year 1910, Sister Snow gave birth to a pair of twins, which event brought the mother near to death's door, but through the mercy of our heavenly Father she recovered and was permitted to live and care for her children. When the twins were ten months old her husband took sick and died, leaving her and her son Eugene to support the family. With a new determination to better their conditions, the family left Sterling a second time, and went to Elsinore, but meeting with no better success than formerly, came back to Sterling, where they continued to reside until last April, when they left for Garfield where four of the children, who are married, reside. Sister Snow is a member of the Relief Society and has alwavs ma'ntained Although having a tofirm belief pass in the many through gospelbitter and inexperiences, its ordinances. she has never lost faith in its principles, but has always felt to rejoice in its blessings. The issue of this marriage is as follows: Edgar Warren, b. Jan. 22, 1883; d. 1883. Foster Rav. b. Julv 31, 1884. James Samuel William' Eugene, b.b. March Jan. 29,27,1888. 1886. Jane LaPriel, b. Apr. 5, 1889. Richard Walter, b. July 9, 1891. Mau-d, b. Nov. 21, 1892. Mary Bell, b. Apr. 6, 1894. Merveldeen, b. Nov. 16, 1895. d. Sept. 1896. Allen, b. June, 24. 1897. d. 1897. Francelle. b. Julv, 20, 1898. Byron, b. Oct. 26, 1900. Ariel, b. Aug. 20, 1902. d. Fel). 1005. Celnicha. b. Aug. 4, 1904. Lucile, b. Mav 11. 1906. Charles, b. Aug. 12, 1908. d. Oct. 1908. Ellis and Ethel b. Feb. 9, 1910. 
 EMMA ADELLA WOOD TOLMAN. Of South Davis Stake. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Mrs. Emma Adella Wood Tolman was born in Bountiful, Davis county, Utah, January 31, 1852. She was the daughter of Daniel C. Wood and Laury Ann Giles Wood, and was sealed to Joseph H. Tolman in the Endowment House, in the year 1870, February 27. She is the mother of 17 children, has 59 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren. Sister' Tolman has been a faithful wife and mother, and an energetic worker in the Relief Society all her life, comforting the sick and helping the needy. As a child she played on the foundation of the Salt Lake temple, and acDmpanied her mother when she went to meet Saints as they came into the valley with MRS. MARY A. WOOD TOLMAN AND HER YOUNGEST SON, 
 the hand carts. She has been a blessing and comfort to all who have known her and is loved by all. The photograph is of Sister Tolman and her youngest, son, and gives a fair idea of her genial countenance, but no lifeless card can indicate the vivacious charm, the winsome dignity of this unusual mother in Israel. FANNIE JOHNSON CALDWELL. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Mrs. Fannie Johnson Caldwell was married to David H. Caldwell, at Taylorsville. Salt Lake county, in 1855. at the age of fifteen. She is the mother of sixteen children  nine girls and seven Ijoys. She has ninetyeight grandchildren and sev(Ven.en ty o n e great-grandchilSister Caldwell was couitselor in the Relief Society in St. John, Tooele county, for ten years. She was also president of the Caldwell Relief Society for ten years. She was seventy-seven years old on Nov. 24, 1917, and has perfect health. MRS. FANNIE JOHNSON CALDWELL. ANNIE B. HANSEN. Of Cassia Stake. MOTHER OF EIGHTEEN CHILDREN. Mrs. Annie B. Hansen was born in Los Angeles, California, June 20. 1877. She was married to Andrew Hansen, October 29. 1893. She was baptized into the Church August 2, 1895, and is the mother of eighteen children  ten girls and eight boys  fourteen living and four dead. The oldest boy is in the Aviation Corps. Sister Hansen is a teacher in the Buhl Relief Society, and travels a distance of twenty miles each month to visit her district. She still keeps up with her Relief Society work, besides taking care of her family and doing farm work. What a glorious career is this for any woman! Honors are hers here and here after.