Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I (First Week in September)
Theology and Testimony
THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION
PART II?ISAAC
A. Some Leading Events.
1. The Birth of Isaac. It was in fulfilment of a prophecy made by a messenger from God, a prediction that was so out of harmony with the ordinary experiences of humanity that its fulfilment seemed almost ridiculous. (See Genesis 18:12.)
The fore-ordination of Isaac, known to God, was indirectly revealed to the parents of Isaac by the prophetic declaration of his birth, and in this case prophecy filled its double function, proving to mortals that there is a God, a being whose knowledge exceeds that of mortals and whose power is super-human and whose interest in human affairs is constant.
2. Isaac on the Altar. Is it consistently thinkable that Isaac was kept in ignorance of who he was?a child of promise; that he was not told of what his mission was, as an heir to the priesthood, the elect of God to carry on the progressive fulfilment of the promises made to his father? Can we believe that Isaac was not taught the gospel plan of salvation and exaltation, the culminating part of which was reached by the Savior through becoming the sacrifice of all sacrifices? Had not Abraham read the command given to Adam, "Teach these things freely to your children?" Did Isaac not have the Christ-life pictured to him by his parents, and was not the Savior the boy's highest ideal of heroism? In this event, was Isaac deprived of a free-agency part in this psychological sacrifice, or did he have the choice between flight and facing the ordeal? Isaac was "bound" but was not the binding of his body preceded and accompanied by the inner freedom of willingness?
3. The Eternal Union of Isaac and Rebekah. Divine Guidance?Abraham was inspired to send back to the land of his nativity for a mother for the children of
LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 383
his son of promise. Isaac's wife was to be an elect lady of select blood. The messenger sent to make the selection was to be left free from all influences except that of inspiration. Abraham not only put him under oath, but he promised him the guiding presence of an angel from God. (See Gen. 24:1-8.) The prediction of Abraham was fulfilled. Rebekah, the good, kind, fair, reverential Rebekah, was discovered and found willing to leave her parental home for the tent where Isaac dwelt. (See Gen. 24:16, 27, 50, 55-58.) What time may have elapsed between the first meeting of Isaac and Rebekah and their marriage is not specified, but their courtship seems to have been a case of "love at first sight." A love that had in it the consciousness of the approval of parents, God, and nature, a love that lasted. (See Gen. 24:67.) This was an event that bears the unmistakable mark of God's approval of careful selection in marriage. It is a striking example of the application of the laws of God in marriage.
4. The Posterity of Isaac and Rebekah.
a. Isaac's appeal to the Lord?Twenty years of married life brought to this couple no children. The Lord had renewed to Isaac the promises made to Abraham thus indicating again that Isaac was to be the chief line of descent for the posterity of the father of the faithful. But how, when, where, this promise was to be fulfilled became a serious question to Isaac. He appealed to God and his entreaty was answered. (Gen. 25:21.)
b. Rebekah's Inquiry of the Lord?To her question, "Why am I thus?" Rebekah received an answer from the Lord that was both explanatory and prophetic, and her after life indicates her loyalty to the accomplishment of the will of the Lord as revealed to her.
c. The Birthright and Blessing Episode?It matters little to us just what rights went with birthright or what privileges went with the blessing. The points of chief value are the facts that both birthright and blessing were choice inheritances which were subject to forfeiture by unworthiness. It goes without saying that one who despises a gift is unworthy of the gift, and Esau "despised his birthright." (Gen. 25:34.) He was glad to sell it for a single meal. That he expressed himself physically famish-


ing was of little consequence when compared with his spiritual imbecility. It was a blessing so closely related to the birthright, and Jacob bought it, was no ordinary transaction; it was ratified by a solemn oath. It was a transaction to which God was made a witness, a solemn covenant of relinquishment, on the part of Esau, and the taking of responsibility on the part of Jacob. It was a part of the fulfilment of the divine prediction made to Rebekah. It was not simply a blessing that Esau expected but it was the blessing so closely related to the birthright, that selling of the latter worked a forfeiture of the right to the former. Rebekah took the responsibility of seeing to it, in her own way, that the blessing went with the birthright. The outcome of the event was a triple lesson: 1 That disregard for a blessing is evidence of unworthiness of a blessing. 2. That unworthiness ends in disappointment. 3. That the unconditional promises of the Lord cannot fail of complete fulfilment.
Questions and Problems:
1. Discuss the statement, "Isaac took a willing part in the great test of his father Abraham."
2. Show that Rebekah was an elect lady. Of select ancestry.
3. Wherein does the life of Rebekah give evidence that woman is entitled to direct communication with the Lord?
4. From the highest judgment of what is right, (i. e., doing the greatest good to the greatest number), to which would you have given the blessing, Jacob or Esau?
5. What is an unconditional prophecy or promise? Give illustrations of conditional prophecies.
LESSON II (Second Week in September)
Work and Business
LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER 385
LESSON III (Third Week in September)