EDITORIAL

Motto?Charity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. XII JULY, 1925, No. 7
Our Pioneer Heritage
The question of the relative value of heredity and environment has been discussed now for a long while. That both are important is probably conceded, but that heredity is the more important seems to be the conclusion that we are pretty generally forced to in the light of present-day investigations in the field of eugenics and other sciences interested in heredity. Recently, Alfred Edward Wiggam has created a good deal of discussion by his new book called "The Decalogue of Science." In this book Mr. Wiggam says there are people who inherently have real power, others have not, and the sad thing about it is that those who have not real power cannot attain it. Mr. Lothrop Stoddard of Harvard evidently had the same thought in mind when he said, "No amount of environment can lift mediocrity into greatness." We read further from a commentator on this subject, "Inheritance of social position isn't important, though it may be comfortable; the inheritance of money may be a misfortune instead of a fortune; but the inheritance that is of worth is the inheritance of an innate desire to do the right thing as nearly as one knows it, to be honest and to be kind, to be ever lighted by the best light that one can see?that is the sweetest inheritance of all the earth. It is the finest thing that can be given to one in life?and the most vital." The words that we have quoted are the reflections of students and thinkers and are in line with the thoughts of the Latter-day Saints.
EDITORIAL 351
It is for this reason that we have pride in stating that we are the sons and daughters of the Pioneers; because the Pioneers were not in search of gold, but were following "the best light that they could see." They had an "innate desire" to serve God and to serve their fellowman; and in order to realize these objectives they sacrificed all earthly things, suffered privation, toiled unceasingly, and, in some instances, met death by starvation. Much of the pride that the early settlers of America feel because of the Puritan blood that runs in their veins is the pride of having descended from persons whose ideals were those of service to God, their fellowman, and their country.
Woman's Champion
The death of President Charles W. Penrose should not be allowed to pass without a separate expression in these pages of our deep appreciation for his vigorous defense of woman's rights at a time when those rights were denied. No cause ever had a greater champion. He based his views on this question, as on every other, on fundamental principles of right. For a government like the United States to "shut out one class of its citizens from participating in the rights, privileges, and benefits" of citizenship he characterized as "anomalous, inconsistent, despotic, and anti-republican." This is strong language, and it was uttered as far back as 1880?forty-five years ago. To be sure, he was frank enough to admit, "there are some offices for which women are not adapted," but, even so, he asked with his usual wit and truth, "are there not also some offices for which many men are not adapted?" He favored woman's political emancipation, not merely because it was her natural right to vote and hold office if she cared to, but also because to withhold this right from her "prevents the people from placing women in positions of trust"?a distinction that does equal justice to his head and his heart. But President Penrose was especially anxious that women should have equal political rights with men in Utah. "Utah," he proudly urged in a speech in the Legislature, "is the home of liberty for all. It is peculiarly the sanctuary for women. Here all her rights are popularly acknowledged and accorded; here she is protected and defended; here the conventionalities which have kept her in bondage for ages are thrown aside by the force of an enlightened estimate of her capabilities and an enlarged view of her claims as an integral part of the body politic." And then, at the conclusion of a powerful defense of a bill to give women their rights, he said: "Remove this ugly and staring brand of woman's political inferiority from our statute books!"
A Short Biography of Adelia B. Cox Sidwell Rosco C. Cox
Adelia Balinda Cox Sidwell?affectionately known to many as "Grandma Sidwell," and to a host of relatives as "Aunt Adie"?was born December 1, 1841, in Lima, Illinois, a small settlement near Nauvoo. In the fall of 1845 mob violence and the burning of Lima forced her parents and the other settlers to seek refuge in Nauvoo. Aunt Adie well remembered the burning of Lima, and she carried water to the sick who had been taken from their homes and lay helpless on the ground. She remained in Nauvoo with her parents until February, 1846, when they crossed the Mississippi River and lived in Iowa until the necessary preparations could be made to go to the Rocky Mountains. She crossed the plains in C. C. Rich's company, experiencing all the hardships attendant upon such a journey, and finally arrived in Salt Lake valley on October 3, 1847, but a little over two months after the arrival of the first band of pioneers. Her parents spent the winter in Salt Lake; but early next spring her father planted a crop north of Salt Lake in what was then Sessions Settlement, now known as Bountiful, and of which place he was made the first bishop. They remained there long enough to raise but two crops. The little girl of six years helped save the first crop by taking an active part in the fight against the crickets. Her father made her a wooden paddle with which for six long weeks she industriously "smashed crickets" twelve to fourteen hours each day. In the autumn of 1849 they were called to help establish settlements in Sanpete valley, and they took up their journey south, arriving in what is now Manti, on November 19, 1849, after having traveled for one month to cover the distance from Salt Lake. In the following May she actively assisted in killing the hosts of rattlesnakes which swarmed from the rocky hillsides to torment the settlers. It took many years to exterminate these hissing reptiles; but it is estimated that in one night at least fifteen hundred were killed. Her parents remained in Manti a little over ten years during which time she was an active, robust girl with an appetite for books that was astonishing. She always made it a point when she read a bit of news, a story, or some history, to go to her geography and locate each setting on the map. She wanted to know the kinds of actions produced by each part of the earth's surface. She