PIONEER WOMAN EDITOR 341
For one thing, it would require separation from home and best beloved ones for an indefinite length of time, perhaps for life, except for occasional visits. This would be a severe trial, as she was an affectionate and favorite daughter and sister in a large and devoted family, and a great lover of home. There were also strong attachments in the ward organizations which it would be hard for her to sever. To leave Cache Valley and go to live in Salt Lake City, which would be necessary should she accept the work offered her in the latter place, would require her being released from the secretaryship of the pioneer branch of the Relief Society, in Smithfield, an office in which she had successfully and happily served for four years. She was also president of the first organization of the young women in the ward, known then as the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association. In Sunday School she was a much interested and greatly beloved teacher of a fine class of halfgrown girls. For a number of terms she had been a teacher in the day schools of the ward, and for a while one of the leading ladies in the ward dramatic association. All these precious ties must be sundered if the young woman should decide to leave these pleasant and interesting duties for the untried vocation of an editor. Experiences of her own as well as object lessons from the lives of others taught Louisa that the scruples which she felt in regard to her lack of qualification for the new work need not stand in the way of her progressing. Two of her practical experiences may with propriety be mentioned here. At the time of her having been regularly appointed by proper authority and sustained as secretary of the Relief Society of Smithfield, she had been away from home attending one of her sisters with a new baby. When she returned home and was told of the honorable position to which she had been called her reply was that she should have to decline the honor because she was sure she could not fill the position with satisfaction either to herself or to others. Her father called her attention to the fact that a member of the Church under ordinary conditions is under obligation to make an attempt to accomplish any work for the Church required by those having authority to appoint. And that any attempt made in humility and faith, manifesting a spirit of obedience would be accepted and would bring blessings. But refusal to accept a proper call would bring the opposite results. And that tender, helpful father added?"Do not suppose, my daughter, that you are to be left to yourself to do your work in your own strength or wisdom. The Lord will help you, and I will help you." The girl acceded to her father's counsel and his words were verified. Another instance never to be forgotten was in connection


with Louisa's work in the Sunday school. The lessons for all our auxiliary organizations in those earlier days were not outlined as they are now. Officers and teachers were expected to work out lessons appropriate to the needs of their classes in their own ways. In the Smithfield Sunday school a plan had been adopted by which the reviewing of one of the classes was an interesting feature of each