The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds
SOMETHING MORE ABOUT FRANCE AND SOMETHING ABOUT ITALY
We told you at our last writing something of the war torn sections of France at Chateau-Thierry and the country in and near Rheims. In parts the country is being rebuilt, very rapidly, greatly to the advantage of those who shall inhabit the new homes and the new business houses; for they must of necessity be more comfortable as they will, in many instances, be more commodious and more modern. Still, as we write, one fact bears upon us with tremendous force; we know that nothing can bring the dead to life again, also that no amount of effort, sacrifice or expenditure of money can restore the poor, disfigured, unsightly creature who sells post cards at the place of armistice; nor the poor Italian with one arm and a bullet hole in his face, who this very morning helped us in the dim light to discover the famous Dante of Giotto, among the frescoes of the National Museum in Florence. These men as long as life shall last must be objects of commiseration and pity. We told you at our last writing that we are inclined to think that the French have selected the most effective place for the burial of their Unknown Soldier, at the same time admitting that we did not know where the Italians had placed their honored dead. Since that time we have seen the grave of Italy's Unknown Soldier; he sleeps in front of the beautiful white carrara marble monument, reared to the memory of Victor Emanuel and situated at the end of the Capitoline hill. This statue is said to be the most imposing equestrian statue in existence; it occupies a most telling site. When we were in Rome, in 1906, the guide told our party that modern Rome was building a monument that would be as magnificent as were the monuments of ancient Rome. We wish to say that the guide's remark was no extravagant boast, for in this memorial to Victor Emanuel II, the city of Rome has a monument worthy of standing at the side of the monuments of the ancient Empire. Nevertheless, what we said in our last article we feel is true, for while Italy has chosen the best place in the nation to do honor to her dead, the place where the Unknown Soldier in France reposes is being looked upon with reverent eyes, all day, and often far into the night. An English newspaper in speaking of the number of people who spend their Easter holidays in France wrote: "Of the throng of British tourists thousands


during the day gazed with respectful interest at the flame of remembrance on the grave of the Unknown Soldier, beneath the Arc de Triumphe." Happily we are to pass from this subject to another phase of French life; for France, said a writer, during the Christmas holidays is a land favored of the Gods. In the south, at this season the flowers bloom and the date palm keeps stately watch over a land of sunshine; while for those who love the rigors of winter the French Alps supply all conditions that make winter sports both courageous and attractive. But we shall not make more than passing mention of the winter sports of the French Alps; our purpose is to write about the land of sunshine known as the French Riviera. At home you have just passed through the bright and balmy days of April and May; yet the air is not more balmy, nor the days brighter, nor the flowers lovelier in April and May, at home, than they are in the French Riviera in January, February, and March. This is assuming, of course, that the spring at home is bright and warm. In this place, for miles, commodious and beautiful hotels, almost countless, skirt the Mediterranean. World cruises are very popular at the present time. It is the practice of many of these cruising ships to drop anchor in the harbor just off Monte-Carlo. The passengers come on shore for a number of hours and, through the use of a motor car, see something of the country. Monte-Carlo has a lovely location; the trees
THE EDITOR ABROAD 367
and flowers about it are very beautiful. Its name to be sure always suggests its gambling Casino, where many fortunes have been lost and many lives wrecked. Yet there is much more in Monte-Carlo than the Casino, which at once suggests the poet who wrote; "Where every prospect pleases, and only man is vile." Mr. H. H. Powers, writing on September 4, 1924, said, "The great Casino at Monte-Carlo is to the writer the most depressing place on earth. Here princesses have gambled away whole estates in a night, and profligates without number have gone penniless to suicide." It is whispered that there is a growing sentiment in favor of closing the Casino. Let us hope that those who wish it closed may in time realize what they desire, for at present it is a blot on our Christian civilization. The French Riviera is noted for the fashionable people who seek it as a winter resort, and who use the promenade to display their fine clothing. Many fashion magazines carry cuts of clothing worn on the Riviera. Not unfrequently a new style of dress, of coat or hat is first worn there. White is a popular color, you see people wearing elegant white coats, furs and gloves, over them they hold a parasol to shut out the bright sun. Many people come year after year to this place to spend part of the winter months. Cannes was the favorite resort of King Edward VII of England. In appreciation of this fact, one finds his statue on the grand promenade looking out towards the sea. This season conspicuous notice was given, in the papers, of the fact that Henry Ford had reserved one floor of a fashionable hotel at Nice, for his visit. The delightful thing to do in this much favored land is to take long walks about in an effort to discover how lavish nature has been in the bestowal of her gifts. Or if, perchance, one may have the use of an automobile then everything is in one's hands, for one may ride far and near in many directions always through interesting and lovely country. We shall ask our readers to follow us on three drives. First of all, we would emphasize that the sea is usually very blue. We might easily believe the term aqua-marine, as applied to a choice blue stone, was coined at the side of the Mediterranean. Our first ride is along the Grande Corniche road, built by Napoleon I. We shall start at a point on the Promenade des Anglais, which translated means the promenade of the English, and, with the sea on our left and a line of very fine hotels to our right, proceed on our way. On we go; there are cliffs above us and below us, all terraced, where the grape vines and the olive tree flourish. At varied intervals we pass lovely villas, that contrast admirably with the grey-green of the olive trees; for these villas are very fre-


quently adorned with clambering vines whose blossoms burst forth into rich orange clusters, and sometimes equally rich purple clusters. Sometimes in the midst of all this color one sees in the garden below bunches of cala lilies, that are white and shapely. On our way we passed the ruins of a Roman tower, finally coming to a point that gives us a commanding view of the harbor of Monte-Carlo. As we looked out we observed that the steam ship Mauritania had dropped anchor in the bay. She was on a cruise and her passengers were landing to get a glimpse of Monte-Carlo and the Riviera before continuing their journey. On we drove through this land of blue sky and blue sea and flowers, reaching the city of Mentone at noon. The restaurant had large windows, built with an idea of taking in as much of the ocean front as possible. After luncheon Miss Elliott and I strolled down the wellkept path only to discover that the sights of Mentone were in harmony with those found on the rest of the drive, for at our right was the sea; and, at our left, hotels in whose blossomed gardens very showy flowers grew. Resuming our drive we reached Pont St. Louis, which place marks the Italian frontier. At this place the tourists have a jolly, playful time. A woman sat in a square place cut in the wall; she was evidently enjoying the thought that her head was in France and her feet in Italy. Here many tourists write cards and mail them on the Italian side, much to the consternation of relatives and friends who were not aware that they purposed visiting Italy. The booths too, are
THE EDITOR ABROAD 369
interesting, for on one side one notes the familiar wares of France, while a yard away the cameo and Italian pearl are displayed. A walk of a few steps from the French border brings one in contact with the Italian officer who demands a passport. We came home by way of the lower Corniche road, which, like the upper Corniche, offered much of scenic interest and beauty. The second day Miss Elliott and I had a drive along the banks of the river Var. We began at precisely the same place, but soon discovered that we were motoring through lovely canyon gorges, such as we are familiar with at home. Above we saw the ruins of an old Roman fortification set high upon the hill. We were driving by a stream of clear water when suddenly we discovered a waterfall tumbling from a height far above us and splashing and crashing as falls are wont to do. The water of this river and of the many falls about it, for we counted six minor falls in the vicinity, is in sharp contrast, so far as the color tone is concerned to the dull tone of the Seine in Paris, and the green and yellow of the Arno and Tiber in Italy. This main cascade is called the Cascade de Courmes; of itself it is sufficient to make the second day memorable. Finally we reached a point in the mountains called Gourdon, which is 2,200 feet above sea level, our starting place. From this point a panorama of practically the entire drive lay before us. The path over which we had come lay like a chalk mark winding about in a zig-zag fashion. We had driven through the valley of the Var passing through the gorges of the famous Loup. On our return, we visited Grasse, where some of the best of French perfumes are made. It was in the midst of a flower fete, consequently the houses were decorated with flowers and bunches of oranges. It is to this place in the mountains that growers bring their flowers to be converted into costly perfumes. Some cities make a specialty of growing violets, others, the jasamine, for which 30 francs per pound is sometimes paid. The May rose is the best of all the roses used in making perfumes. This is a rose that resembles the wild rose. The perfume made from it brings the highest market value. We went through the factory where the process involved in the manufacture of the article was explained to us. Since the war gasoline has been used extensively. The flowers are placed in gasoline which extracts the perfume; then the gasoline and water which are in the flower are evaporated and the perfume is left. By this new process nine men can handle three tons of flowers each day. The old process involves placing the flower in tallow. The tallow extracts the perfume from the flower, later it is placed in alcohol which takes the scent out of the tallow. Then the alcohol is evaporated and the perfume is left. This latter process required 250 women a day


to handle but one half ton of flowers, but the perfume is finer for it possesses a much more delicate odor. To make a very choice perfume the scent from many choice flowers is combined. Perfume is better for being kept for some time. Grasse is high up, so the descent was most delightful. On our third drive we started from the same place and visited the Golden Corniche, a road constructed in 1904, under the supervision of the French Touring Club. This highway is lined by a shrub that has a brilliant yellow blossom, that runs for miles along its course, hence its name the Golden Corniche. Two places of historic interest should be mentioned in connection with this road, first, Golfe Juan. Where Napoleon Bonaparte disembarked on March 1, 1815, after his escape from the island of Elba, and the "Forum Juli," the ruins of a Roman forum built in the time
THE EDITOR ABROAD 371
of Julius Caesar. Arriving finally at Cannes, we were in another well known city of the French Riviera, facing the water front. All through these drives we found the trees most attractive; on the lowland terraces, the palm and the olive trees are everywhere present, while scattered along the way is the stately cypress, sometimes in groves and sometimes placed along the road like sentinels on guard; and on the mountain top the cedar grows?a beautiful proud cedar, that looks aloft, and spreads its umbrellalike top as if it would defy the centuries. And now for the story of our drive along the Italian coast line. Our party had been augmented by the coming of Miss Anna Ollerton and Miss Amy Martain. Over night we stayed at Sorrento, an Italian city built on rocky ledges that jut up out of the sea. This is the city where the American novelist, Francis M. Crawford, had his home and where he wrote many of his novels. Our party approached Sorrento from the sea, as we had been visiting Capri during the day. In order to reach Sorrento we were obliged to take a small row boat for the last part of our journey, and after landing take an elevator that placed us in our hotel on top of the rocky ledge. Our rooms gave us the best possible view of the Bay of Naples. In the morning a rich reward was ours, for the clouds on the previous days had all cleared away, and there stood Vesuvius puffing her smoke into a clear sky whose trail of smoke, which fell in a horizontal line, could be traced distinctly as far as the eye could see. This column of white, black smoke, with some tinges of pink, made in all probability by the rising sun, threw its trail across a clear blue sky above a sea of blue. After breakfast which we ate before seven, we started on what is known as the famous Sorrento Amalfi drive. We left the hotel at Sorrento in a bower of lovely flowers with the wisteria and the orange blossom everywhere in evidence. Soon we were on a well made road with the sea's expanse glistening before us, and the mountains jutting behind us. Finally we were driving through country unlike anything we had seen along the French coast line, for on each side a hilly plain stretched, covered with fruit trees of many varieties, with the olive tree always in evidence. Nestled among these fruit trees are the homes and churches of the inhabitants. We were passing through the Neapolitan Alps our guide told us. Such a stretch of country seemed to justify, fully, what has been written about the population of Italy in the days of the Roman Empire. Gradually we descended into the valley where we found ourselves at the very gates of Pompeii?that Greek-Roman City, destroyed by the eruptions of Vesuvius in 79 A. D.?a voice from the dust which has been such a revelation of the past.