7 The Pioneer Woman Editor of the Church Lula Greene Richards, pioneer woman editor of the Church and of Utah, is now seventy-six years of age. The following account of the beginning of women in journalism was written by her.?Editors. When a quarter of a century had passed, after the notable entrance of the Mormon Pioneers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had grown sufficiently strong and powerful to justify the founding of a publication to be owned and conducted by the first auxiliary organization of the Church, the Woman's Relief Society. The Society had come to realize the necessity of such help as should be obtained from the circulation of a periodical especially adapted to the development of their interests impaled in its broad and ever increasing activities. There were many reasons why the women of Utah should consider the issuance of a paper of their own a warrantable enterprise. The editorial in the first number of the paper set forth in a few words that although the women of Utah had been in possession of the ballot for two years, which at the time appeared to be the principal privilege for which women in many places were struggling, there was still ample work to be done in which their paper would prove of great service. There were truths to be disseminated, errors to be combated, intelligence to be communicated, the right to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be corrected. A clause in the prospectus of the paper reads, "Who are so well able to represent the women of Utah as the women of Utah themselves? And is it not better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others?" The establishment of a woman's paper in Utah meant the entering of a new field, one altogether untried in the west except by Mrs. Duniway, who had just previously started the New North-West, in Portland, Oregon. A feature of vital importance in discussing the pros and cons of the subject in hand was discovered to be the selecting of a suitable person for the editor. Miss Louisa L. Greene, a young woman resident of Smithfield, Cache Valley, who was becoming favorably known to the public through her writings over the nom de plume of "Lula" was strongly recommended as a desirable one for the new editorial position, first by Elder Edward L. Sloan. He was one of the editors of the Salt Lake Herald to which paper Miss Greene was an occasional contributor. Miss Eliza R. Snow, "Zion's Poetess," and the General President of the Relief Society organization, was well acquainted with Miss Greene, having corresponded with her for some time, greatly to the advantage of the young woman educationally. Miss Snow warmly favored E. L. Sloan's suggestion and no other name was considered in competition for the editorial work to be carried on by a woman. The matter was presented to Miss Greene by letter. The young woman was, at that time, in her twenty-third year. Her education had been obtained principally at home under her father's tuition, he being a natural and an excellent teacher. She had for brief intervals attended village schools at times when the circumstances of the family would permit. And she had spent eight months in Salt Lake City attending school. First a four month's term at "Tripp's and Rogers" which was considered one of the best schools of the time. And afterwards a term of the same length at the University of Deseret, beginning at the time when Dr. John R. Park was made President of that institution. Naturally studious, literature had always been a favorite study with her. She had written in prose and in rhyme in such a manner as to attract pleasant attention and call forth encouraging comments at an early age. She was cheerful and optimistic in disposition and cherished high ideals, with an ambition to become an intelligent and a useful writer. But the thought of ever filling a position so responsible and so conspicuous as that of an editor of a real paper to be published and sent out into the world had not come to her until letters from Salt Lake introduced it to her mind. It seemed to Louisa at first glance a most wonderful and providential opportunity for her entering upon a life work which she should always love and find greatest satisfaction in. But being humbly and sensitively aware of her lack of qualification for so important and public a position as the one proffered her she hesitated some time before deciding whether she could or not accept the splendid offer. In reflection and consultation with her parents over the matter many obstacles arose to dampen her ardor and to cause discouraging sensations to take possession of her,