LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December ) Vachel Lindsay Lindsay the poet, commonly known as Vachel Lindsay, although his first name is Nicholas, has requested that people be told from the outset how to pronounce his name. His name is to be pronounced so that it rhymes with Rachel. He was born in Springfield, Illinois, November 10, 1879. After being graduated ee eee from the Springfield High School he attended Hyrum College. Lindsay has talent in two lines, sketching, and writing poetry; consequently, we find him studying at the Art Institute in Chicago from 1900 to 1903 and at the New York School of Art in 1904. He has some theories of his own. - He believes that common people may be taught to appreciate poetry; with this thought in mind he started on a tramp through Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas, like Little Tom Tucker singing for his supper, thinks Mr. Untermeyer. At the same time he distributed a little pamphlet entitled, "Poems to be Traded for Bread." He had in his mind the ministrels' way of doing things and went from door to door chanting his poetry. "He is a wonderful reciter, and is aided by a sonorous, heaven-reaching voice. All his poems are written to be read aloud, chanted, or declaimed; in some cases they are written to be danced also, and played as games. In many of his recitations, the audience is called upon to take part in choruses and refrains. Thus, in one poem, when Lindsay says, 'I've been to Palestine,' the audience as one man has to cry back to him, "What did you see in Palestine?' This is rapturously enjoyed by the audience. When you have heard the poet you can well understand that he did not starve when he used to tramp in America and recite to the farmers for a meal and a night's lodging. He has gained a great popularity." Practically everything Vachel Lindsay writes is supposed to be sung. He tells us that he has recited to probably a million people and says, "I have put as much energy into reciting as a National League baseball player puts into grandstand plays. 1 think, judging by the magazines that have published my verse, I have a constituency of three million." Lindsay's home was for many years near the mansion occupied by the Governor of the state of Illinois. He remembers definitely the circumstances connected with the death of Governor John P. Altgeld, born December 30, 1847; died March 12, 1902, and has written a poem entitled "The Eagle that is Forgotten" in memory of this man: Tue Eacte THat ls ForcoTren Sleep softly * * * eagle forgotten * * * wnder the stone, Time has its way with you there, and the clay has its own. "We have buried him now," thought your foes, and in secret rejoiced. They made a brave show of their mourning, their hatred unvoiced, They es at you, barked at you, foamed at you, day after ay,. Now you were ended. They praised you, * * * and laid you away. 
 The others that mourned you in silence and terror and truth, The widow bereft of her pittance, the boy without youth, The mocked and the scorned and the wounded, the lame and the poor That should have remembered forever, * * * remember no more, Where are those lovers of yours, on what name do they call The lost, that in armies wept over your funeral pall? They call on the names of a hundred high-valiant ones, A hundred white, eagles have risen, the sons of your sons, The zeal in their wings is a zeal that your dreaming began, The valor that wore out your soul in the service of man. Sleep softly, * * * eagle forgotten, * * * wnder the stone, Time has its way with you there, and the clay has its own. Sleep on, O brave hearted, O wise man, that kindled the flame— To live in mankind is far more than to live in a name, To live in mankind, far, far more * * * than to live in a 'name. In November, 1918, Lindsay wrote a poem entitled, "Sew the Flags Together." It was expressly written for William Stanley Braithwaite's ictory Anthology issued immediately after Armistice Day. It is one of the best poems growing out of that wonderful event. For that reason we include it. SEw THE FLAGS TOGETHER Great wave of youth, ere you be spent, Sweep over every monument Of caste, smash every high imperial wall That stands against the new World State, And heal, and make blood-brother of us all. And overwhelm each ravening hate, Nor let your clamor cease Till ballots conquer guns. Drum on for the world's peace Till the Tory power is gone. Envenomed lame old age Is not our heritage,. But springtime's vast release, and flaming dawn. Peasants, rise in splendor And your accounting render Ere the Lords unnerve your hand! Sew the flags together. Do not tear them down. Hurl the worlds together. Dethrone the wallowing monster And the clown. Resolving:— "Only that shall grow In Balkan furrow, Chinese row, That blooms, and is perpetually young." That only be held fine and dear That brings heart-wisdom year by year And puts this thrilling word upon the tongue: "The United States of Europe, Asia, and the World." "Youth will be served," now let us cry. Hurl the referendum. ' Your fathers, five long years ago, Resolved to strike, too late. Now Sun-crowned crowds Innumerable, Of boys and girls Imperial, With your patchwork flag of brotherhood On high, With every silk In one flower-banner whirled— Rise, Citizens of one tremendous state, The United States of Europe, Asia, and the World. The dawn is rose-drest and impearled. The guards of privilege are spent. The blood-fed captains nod. So Saxon, Slav, French, German, Rise, Yankee, Chinese, Japanese, All the lands, all the seas With the blazing rainbow flag unfurled, Rise, rise, Take the sick dragons by surprise, Highly establish, In the name of God, The United States of Europe, Asia, and the World. An example of a poem that is sung by both poet and audience is "I heard Immanuel Singing." It might be interesting if the 
 class could arrange to do this in the same fashion as Lindsay does it. The stanzas are marked to indicate what to do. "T Heard Immanuel Singing" free his heart in heaven. This poem is intended to be half said, half sung to the well-known tune:— "Last night I lay a-sleeping, There came a dream so fair, I stood in Old Jerusalem Beside the temple there,— " etc. Yet this tune is not to be fitted on, arbitrarily. The poem shows the Master with his work done, singing to, very softly, It is here given to suggest the manner of handling rather than determine it. To be sung. I heard Immanuel singing Within his own good lands, I saw him bend above his harp. I watched his wandering hands Lost amid the harp-strings; Sweet, sweet I heard him play. His wounds were altogether healed. Old things had passed away. All things were new, but music. The blood of David ran Within the Son of David, Our God, the Son of Man. He was ruddy like a shepherd. His bold young face, how fair. Apollo of the silver bow Had not such flowing hair. I saw Immanuel singing On a tree-girdled hill. The glad remembering branches Dimly echoed still The grand new song proclaiming The Lamb that had been slain. New-built, the Holy City Gleamed in the murmuring plain. The crowning hours were over. The pageants all were past. To be read very softly, but in spirited response. GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Within the many mansions The hosts, grown still at last, In homes of holy mystery Slept long by crooning springs Or waked to peaceful glory, A universe of kings. To be sung. He left his people happy. He wandered free to sigh Alone in lowly friendship With the green grass and the sky. He murmured ancient music His red heart burned to sing Because his perfect conquest Had grown a weary thing. No chant of gilded triumph— His lonely song was made ~ Of Art's deliberate freedom; Of minor chords arrayed In soft and shadowy colors That once were radiant flowers:— The Rose of Sharon, bleeding In olive-shadowed bowers:— And all the other roses In the songs of East and West Of love and war. And worshiping, And every shield and crest Of thistle or of lotus Or sacred lily wrought In creeds and psalms and palaces And temples of white thought:— To be read very softly, yet in spirited response All these he sang, half-smiling And weeping as he smiled, Laughing, talking to his harp As to a new-born child:— As though the arts forgotten But bloomed to prophecy These careless, fearless harp-strings, New-crying in the sky. Oy 
 To be sung., "When this his hour of sorrow For flowers and Arts of men Has passed in ghostly music," I asked my wild heart then— What will he sing tomorrow, What wonder, all his own Alone, set free, rejoicing With a green hill for his throne? 'What will he sing tomorrow What wonder, all his own Alone, set free, rejoicing, With a green hill for his throne? No discussion of Vachel Lindsay would be at all complete that did not take into consideration his study of the negro race. "The Congo" is an illustration of his interest in the colored race that he knew so well from contact. THE Conco I. Their Basic Savagery Barrel-house kings, with feet unstable, Sagged and reeled and pounded on the table, Pounded on the table, Hard as they were able, Beat an empty barrel with the handle ais a broom, Boom, boom, Boom, With a silk umbrella and the handle of a broom, THEN I had religion, THEN I had a vision. I could not turn from their revel in derision. More deliberate. Solennly chanted. THEN I SAW. THE CONGO, CREEPING THROUGH THE BLACK, CUTTING THROUGH THE JUNGLE WITH A GOLDEN TRACK. A thousand miles max of speed and Tattooed cannibals danced in files; racket. Then I heard the boom of the blood-lust song And a thigh-bone beating on a tin-pan gong. And "BLoop" screamed the whistles and the fifes of the warriors, '""BLoop" screamed the skull-faced, lean witch-doctors, Fat, black bucks in a wine-barrel room, Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, BOOM. Then along that riverbank A deep rolling bass.: A rapidly piling cli- GUIDE LESSONS FOR "Whirl ye the deadly voo-doo rattle, Harry the uplands, Steal all the cattle, Rattle-rattle, rattle-rattle. Bing! Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, BOOM," A roaring, epic, rag-time tune From the mouth of the Congo To the Mountains of the Moon. Death is an elephant, Torch-eyed and horrible Foam-flanked and terrible. Boo, steal the pygmies, Boom, kill the Arabs, Boom, kill the white men, Hoo, Hoo, HOO. Listen to the yell of Leopold's ghost DECEMBER 517 With a philosophic pause. Shrilly-and with a heavily accented meter. Like the wind in the Burning in Hell for his hand-maimed host. Chimney. Hear how the demons chuckle and yell. Cutting his hands off, down in Hell. Listen to the creepy proclamation, Blown through the lairs of the forest-nation, Blown past the white-ants' hill of clay, Blown past the marsh where the butterflies play:— "Be careful what you do, Or Mumbo-Jumbo, God of the —_ And all of the other Gods of the Congo, Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you, Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you, Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you." All the o sounds very golden. Heavy accents very heavy. Light accents very light. Last line whispered. II, Their Irrepressible High Spirits. Wild crap-shooters with a whoop and a call Rather shrill and Danced the juba in their gambling-hall high. And laughed fit to kill, and shook the town, And guyed the policemen and laughed them down With a boomlay, boomlay, BOOM. Read exactly as in first section. THEN I SAW THE CONGO, CREEPING THROUGH THE BLACK, CUTTING THROUGH THE JUNGLE WITH A GOLDEN TRACK. 518 RELIEF SQCIETY MAGAZINE A negro fairyland swung into view, Lay emphasis on the A minstrel river delicate ideas. Keep as Where dreams come true. Light-footed as possible. The ebony palace soared on high Through the blossoming trees to the evening sky, The inlaid porches and casements shone With gold and ivory and elephant-bone. And the black crowd laughed till their sides were sore At the baboon butler in the agate door, And the well-known tunes of the parrot band That trilled on the bushes of that magic-land. A troupe of skull-faced witch-men came With pomposity. Through the agate doorway in suits of flame, Yea, long-tailed coats with a gold-leaf crust And hats that were covered with diamond-dust. And the crowd in the court gave a whoop and a call And danced the juba from wall to wall. But the witch-men suddenly stilled the throng With a stern, cold glare, and a stern, old song:— With a great de- "Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you." * * * liberation and ghostliness. W ith overJust then from the doorway, as fat as shotes, whelming asCame the cake-walk princes in their long, red coats, surance, good Shoes with a patent-leather shine, cheer, and And tall silk hats that were red as wine. Pomp. And they pranced with their butterfly partners there, With growCoal-black maidens with pearls in their hair, ing speed Knee-skirts trimmed with jessamine sweet, and sharpAnd bells on their ankles and little black feet. Ly marked And the couples railed at the chant and the frown dance - Of the witch-men lean, and laughed them down. Rhythmn, (O rare was the revel, and well worth while That. Made those glowering witch-men smile.) The cake-walk royalty then began To walk for a cake that was tall as a man to the tune of "Boomlay, Boomlay, Boom," While the witch-men laughed, with a sinister air, And sang with the scalawags prancing there:— "Walk with care, walk with care, | With a touch of negro Or Mumbo-Jumbo, God of the Congo, dialect and as rapidly And all of the other. As posible toward the Gods of the Congo, end, Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you. Beware, beware, walk with care, Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, boom, Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, boom, Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, boom, Boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, BOOM." © rare was the revel, and well worth while Slow philosophic calm. That made those glowering witch-men smile. III. The Hope of Their Religion. A good old negro in the slums of the town Heavy bass. With Preached at a sister for her velvet gown. Aliteral imitation of Howled at a brother for his low-down ways, camp-meeting rackHis prowling, guzzling, sneak-thief days. Et, and trance. Beat on the Bible till he wore it out, Starting the jubilee revival shout. And some had visions, as they stood on chairs, And sang of Jacob, and the golden stairs. And they all repented, a. Thousand strong, From their stupor and savagery and sin and wrong, And slammed their hymn books till they shook the room With "Glory, glory, glory," And "Boom, boom, BOOM." Exactly as in the. First section. THEN I SAW THE CONGO, CREEPING THROUGH THE BLACK, CUTTING THROUGH THE JUNGLE WITH A GOLDEN TRACK. And the gray sky opened like a new-rent veil And showed the apostles with their coats of mail. In bright white steel they were seated round And their fire-eyes watched where the Congo wound. And the twelve apostles, from their thrones on high, Thrilled all the forest with their heavenly cry:— "Mumbo-Jumbo will die in the jungle; Sung to the tune of Never again will he hoo-doo yon, "Hark, ten thousand Never again will he hoo-doo you," harps and voices." Then along that river, a thousand miles, With growing deThe vine-snared trees fell down in files. Liberation and joy. Pioneer angels cleared the way For a Congo paradise, for babes at play, 
 For sacred capitals, for temples clean. Gone were the skull-faced witch-men lean. There, where the wild ghost-gods had wailed. A million boats of the angels sailed In a rather high key—as With oars of silver; and prows of blue,. Delicately as possible. And silken pennants that the sun shone through. *Twas a land transfigured, 'twas a new creation. Oh, a singing wind swept the negro nation; And on through the backwoods clearing flew:— "Mumbo-Jumbo is dead in the jungle. To the tune of "Hark, Never again will he hoo-doo you. Ten thousand harps Never again will he hoo-doo you." and voices." Redeemed were the forests, the beasts and the men, And only the vulture dared again By the far, lone mountains of the moon To cry, in the silence, the Congo tune:— Dying off into a pene- "Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you, trating, terrified Mumbo * * Jumbo * * will * * hoo-doo * * you." whisper. Another study of the negro is, A Negro Sermon: Simon Legree.. Vachel Lindsay is a lover of nature. A thoroughly delightful book is Tramping With a Poet, by Stephen Graham. The poet was Vachel Lindsay. Vachel Lindsay belongs to a sect of primitive Christians called "Disciples of Christ." They are followers of Alexander Campbell and are called Campbellites in America. - "Glacier in Montana, Yellowstone in Wyoming, Sequoia and Yosemite in California, Grand Canyon in Arizona, Mt. McKinley in Alaska, and 'many minor reservations and national forests— they ought truly to be called by some name other than parks. The same also is true for Canada, which possesses its wonderful dominion parks such as those of Waterton and Lake Louise. These names are very familiar in the West. Vachel Lindsay knows them all. Here is a poem growing out of mountain climbing." Two stars arose above the mountain's head, Two stars looked down upon the world in bed; Looked through the window-panes and saw the world at home, From Babylon to Tyre, and Rome to Rome. What if the stars, lifting their tiny lamps, Were but like us, a couple of old tramps? Heaven's tramps the stars, blazing their trails they go, From mountain top to mountain top and snow to snow. The following description from Tramping With a Poet in the Rockies will give some idea of the appreciation these two men had for nature: "We had made our camp under a great overhanging rock beside rushing cataracts. The huge vague scenery about us was made more immense by a cloud screen which prevented one knowing exactly how high the mountains were, and we looked outward at a vastitude of scarred precipitous cliffs. Our fire warmed the rock against which we had laid our blankets, and we had found a delightfully cozy place in which to be at home. Night came down upon us, but we lay long in the flamelight and talked." Questions and Problems 1. Other things being equal which person would you expect to be more religious, one who lives in a city or one who seeks the haunts of nature and sleeps upon mountain tops as did Vachel Lindsay and Stephen Graham? 2. Name some persons of prominence connected with the early history of the Church who belonged to the Campbellite faith. 3. What object had Vachel Lindsay in going from door to door and singing to the people? 4. How has he asked us to pronounce his name? 5. What great American called Springfield his home? 6. If you have a book with the poem "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight," by Vachel Lindsay, have it read to the class. 7. Select the passages from the poem that describes the President. 8. Discuss this proposition: Poems written for singing must emphasize rhythm; and illustrate by reading something from Lindsay's poetry. -