[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Annie Wells Cannon]

Annie Wells Cannon
DECEMBER—For fullness of delight, walk through the "Land of Make Believe" at Christmas time, holding the hand of a little child.
PRINCESS ELIZABETH, 14 years old and heir to the British throne, broadcast a message of courage to the children of the world. She said, "When peace comes, remember it will be for us children of today to make the world of tomorrow a better and happier place." Brave words from a little girl in exile.
HATTIE W. CARAWAY, Senator from Arkansas, will be joined in the next Congress by seven other women legislators—Senator Margaret Smith of Maine and representatives Mary T. Norton of New Jersey, Caroline O'Day of New York, Jessie Sumner of Illinois, Jeanette Rankin of Montana, Edith Nourse Rogers of Massachusetts, and Frances Bolton of Ohio.
CAROLINE RUUTZ-REES of Connecticut recently celebrated her 50th anniversary as founder and headmistress of Rosemary Hall, an expensive and exclusive school for girls. The college is unique in many particulars. The students call each other (manlike) by last names, wear uniforms, and engage in sports and athletics, as well as light accomplishments and classical instruction.
DOROTHY ARZNER, Hollywood's only woman film director, began her career as a script stenographer.
NAZIMOVA, one of the stage's greatest stars, has returned to the screen after an absence of 15 years as the heroine in Ethel Vance's intriguing story "Escape."
JOAN CRAWFORD, noted star, engages in relief work for the poor, especially providing medical attention.
MRS. WARREN CREASY for 13 years has been a fine look-out in the forests of Pennsylvania. She spends her days in a tower on a high mountain to notify the rangers if she spots a blaze.
HESTER SIMS SMITH, 82, devoted mother and Relief Society worker, was one of the first women workers in the Deseret News publishing house. We also note with sorrow the recent passing of Mary Ann Burt, 91, an heroic and courageous woman, Luthilla Pratt Kimball, 85, all worthy and estimable mothers.
KATHERINE FOUGERA'S "With Custer's Cavalry," Rebecca Yancey William's "The Vanishing Virginian," Inglis Fletcher's "Raleigh's Eden," and "Mr. And Mrs. Cugat," by Isabel Scott Rosick, are among the new books by women this fall.
HANNAH M. ALDRICH, 100 years old, Anna H. Vincent, 100, Mary Ann Brockbank, 97, Ann C. Miln, 92, and Sarah E. Connell, all Utah pioneers, received honor and homage recently on the occasion of their respective birthdays.
GRETA GARBO has taken out first papers for American citizenship; while every month notables from foreign shores are arriving in America and many, like Garbo, are applying for citizenship.

 
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. XXVII DECEMBER, 1940 No. 12

EDITORIAL