[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Excerpts from Biography Selected]
EXCERPTS  FROM  "BIOGRAPHY  AND  FAMILY 
RECORD  OF  LORENZO  SNOW" 
By  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith 
(Selected  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp) 
"It  is  a  noticeable  feature  in  those  who 
cherish  a  spirit  of  apostasy  from  the  light 
of  the  Gospel,  that  they  adopt  the  doctrine 
of  universalism  and  think  none  too  wicked 
for  a  complete  and  unconditional  salva- 
tion." (Page  31) 
"Early  in  the  spring  of  1840,  I  was  ap- 
pointed to  a  mission  in  England.  I  here 
record  a  circumstance  which  occurred  a 
short  time  previous — one  which  has  been 
riveted  on  my  memory  never  to  be  erased, 
so  extraordinary  was  the  manifestation.  At 
the  time,  I  was  at  the  house  of  Elder  H.  G. 
Sherwood;  he  was  endeavoring  to  explain 
the  parable  of  our  Savior,  when  speaking 
of  the  husbandman  who  hired  servants  and 
sent  them  forth  at  different  hours  of  the 
day  to  labor  in  his  vineyard. 
"While  attentively  listening  to  his  ex- 
planation, the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested 
mightily  upon  me — the  eyes  of  my  under- 
standing were  opened,  and  I  saw  as  clear 
as  the  sun  at  noonday,  with  wonder  and 
astonishment,  the  pathway  of  God  and 
man.  I  formed  the  following  couplet  which 
expresses  the  revelation,  as  it  was  shown 
me,  and  explains  Father  Smith's  dark  say- 
ing to  me  at  a  blessing  meeting  in  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple,  prior  to  my  baptism,  as  pre- 
viously mentioned  in  my  first  interview 
with  the  Patriarch. 
As  man  now  is,  God  once  was; 
As  God  now  is,  man  may  be. 
"I  felt  this  to  be  a  sacred  communica- 
tion, which  I  related  to  no  one  except  my 
sister,  Eliza,  until  I  reached  England,  when 
in  a  confidential,  private  conversation  with 
President  Brigham  Young,  in  Manchester, 
I  related  to  him  this  extraordinary  manifes- 
tation." (Pages  46-47) 
(Traveling  in  France  in  1852.)  "In 
passing  over  the  country,  and  searching 
the  mind  of  the  Spirit  in  reference  to  its 
inhabitants,  my  heart  is  pained  in  contem- 
plating the  dark,  dreary  and  bloody  fate 
and  scourge  that  await  this  nation."  (Page 
202) 
(While  opening  the  Italian  mission  in 
1850.)  "Our  course  is  often  dark  and  diffi- 
cult; but  I.  believe  that,  however  slow  it 
may  be  for  a  while,  it  will  ultimately 
brighten  with  complete  success.  Popery, 
ignorance,  and  superstition  form  a  three- 
fold barrier  to  our  efforts.  Strange  customs, 
laws  and  languages  surround  us"  on  every 
side.  In  a  word,  we  feel  that  we  are  in  Italy 
— the  polluted  fountain  which  has  over- 
spread the  earth  with  her  defiling  waters." 
(Page  135) 
"Let  me  say  to  the  brethren  .  .  .  that  the 
Priesthood  was  bestowed  upon  you,  as 
upon  the  Son  of  God,  for  no  other  purpose 
than  that  through  sacrifice  you  might  be 
proven,  that,  peradventure  at  the  last  day, 
you  might  stand  approved  before  the 
Lord."  (Page  376) 
"I  would  say,  let  this  motto  be  that  of 
every  Elder  in  Israel,  and  of  every  person 
worthy  to  be  called  Saint:  Fear  not — never 
stand  still — move  on."    (Page  402) 
(1872)  "Our  mission  is  to  the  world, 
and  not  simply  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the 
people,  but  to  establish  plans  and  lay  foun- 
dations for  their  temporal  salvation.  Our 
object  is  as  much  for  the  temporal  as  for 
the  spiritual  salvation  of  the  people.  The 
time  is  approaching  when  the  nations  will 
be  broken  up,  on  account  of  their  wicked- 
ness. The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  going 
to  war  against  them — they  will  destroy 
themselves  with  their  immorality  and  abo- 
minations. They  will  quarrel  and  contend
