[Vol27 | December 1940 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]

Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 6 The Lord's Tenth?Lorenzo Snow (Tuesday, March 4, 1941)
"And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord." (Doctrine and Covenants 119:4)
LORENZO SNOW, as a young man, entered Oberlin College at Oberlin, Ohio, which was then an orthodox Presbyterian institution. Although of a religious frame of mind, he was not impressed by the sectarianism of the college environment. During these college years, he wrote, "If there is nothing better than is to be found here in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions."
HIS CONVERSION
During his period at college, his beloved sister and confidante, Eliza Roxey Snow, had embraced "Mormonism" and moved to Kirtland. Lorenzo desired to study Hebrew; and as there was then at Kirtland a capable Hebrew scholar teaching this language to some of the brethren, he went there and enrolled in the Hebrew school. The religion of his associates did not interest him at first, but shortly afterwards, due to contacts with the Prophet and other leading brethren, he was baptized in June, 1836, being then in his twenty-third year. From this time onward until his death, he was identified as one of the vanguard of the Builders of the Kingdom of God on earth.
PUBLIC AND ECCLESIASTICAL SERVICE
In addition to several missions within the United States, he served an extended mission in Great Britain, assisted in the rededication of Palestine, visited Hawaii, opened the missionary work in Italy, and planned for its introduction in Switzerland, Malta, British India, Russia, Austria, and South America. For twenty-nine years, he was a member of the legislative assembly of Utah and was president of its council for ten years. His influence in the establishment and development of industries and cooperative ventures in Utah settlements is monumental.
THEOLOGICAL TEACHING
A consideration of Lorenzo Snow would not be complete without reference to a statement made by him, but which has been variously attributed to almost all of the early Church leaders. While on his mission to England (1840-1843), he formulated the expression, "As man now is, God once was; as God now is, man may be," and wrote this statement in a letter to his sister, Eliza R. Snow, at Nauvoo. Later it became a current saying among the Latter-day Saints. While the credit for creating this meaningful couplet belongs to Lorenzo Snow, the doctrinal teaching upon which it was based had its origin in the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
TRAINING IN PRACTICAL LEADERSHIP
In 1847, a year and a half before he was called to be an apostle, he was placed in charge of Mt. Pisgah, one of the temporary settlements of the scattered Saints in Iowa. Poverty and sickness were rampant in the camp. He manifested great ability as an organizer by sending some of the brethren to neighboring non-Mormon settlements to secure work, the payment for their services to be made in food. Others were placed at work manufacturing furniture, churns, barrels, etc., that could be sold to the permanent settlers of the surrounding country. Those capable of making and repairing wagons were set to these tasks, in preparation for the intended journey to the West. In addition, he arranged to keep the morale of the community healthful by fostering recreational and religious activities.
In 1853, Lorenzo Snow was called to settle at Brigham City, which place he considered his home for the following forty years. Here he became the moving power in the organization and direction of the Brigham City Mercantile and Manufacturing Association ? an industrial, agricultural cooperative experiment. The association engaged in merchandising, operated a tannery, a shoe manufacturing establishment, harness and saddle shops, a woolen mill, a cotton factory with a cotton farm in the southern part of the state to supply the raw materials, a dairy, butcher shops, flour mills, a hat factory, etc. The association also owned cattle and sheep. Altogether, there were about forty industrial branches successfully operating during a nine-year period. The products from the experiment during the year 1875 were valued at $260,000.
AS PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH
When Lorenzo Snow became President of the Church in October, 1898, he made a statement that was characteristic of his retiring nature. "I do not want this administration to be known as Lorenzo Snow's administration," he said, "but as God's, in and through Lorenzo Snow." With the conviction that he was but the instrument in the hands of the Almighty, he set about to deal with the various problems that were confronting the Church. The most pressing of these was that of Church finances. Due to the escheatment of Church property during the anti-polygamy conflict and various industrial developments which the Church had undertaken for the temporal benefit of the Saints and their communities, the Church was heavily in debt. President Snow now commenced to utilize the wide experience he had gained in temporal affairs. By issuing $1,000,000 in short-term bonds, all of which were purchased locally, he was able to meet the most pressing obligations.
REVIVAL OF THE PRINCIPLE OF TITHING
While at St. George, Utah, in the spring of 1899, he received a revelation that the Saints must repent of their indifference to the law of tithing and commence to observe it more faithfully, or they would find that many of their blessings would be withdrawn. During the decades preceding this event, there had been a growing laxity in the observance of this practice. Its revival was essential for the temporal and spiritual welfare of both the people and the Church.
As President Snow journeyed northward, he preached the law of tithing at every stopping place, and the remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. The Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations were convened in their annual conference when President Snow reached Salt Lake City. He availed himself of the opportunity, when addressing the officers' meeting of the Young Men's organization on May 30, to appeal to them for their support in sustaining the law of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse, the following resolution was presented to the representatives of nearly every stake in the Church and unanimously adopted by them:
"Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise."
This ready response of the representatives of the youth of the Church to his appeal to support the tithe system visibly affected the aged president. Arising again, he said: "Brethren, the God of our Fathers bless you. Every man who is here, who has made this promise, will be saved in the Celestial Kingdom. God bless you. Amen."
On July 2 of that year, a special fast meeting and solemn assembly was held in the Salt Lake Temple, at which 623 persons were present, representing every ward and stake in the Church. The meeting had been called by President Snow to present the matter of tithing observance for their consideration. The group unanimously accepted the resolution formerly adopted by the Y. M. M. I. A. Officers.
The result of this new emphasis upon an old principle was that everywhere in the Church people became "tithing-conscious" and commenced returning to the Lord that which was justly His. This revival of tithing as a Church-wide practice started the Church on the road toward economic emancipation and enabled the Church to expand its great missionary,
ecclesiastical, educational, and social program, which so characterized it in the twentieth century. President Snow did not live to see the Church reap all of the benefits of this renewed interest in tithing, as he died on October 10, 1901, but he saw the first fruits of his divinely inspired reformation and died confident that neither political nor economic obstacles henceforth could crush the Church of God.
844 ESTIMATE OF HIS ADMINISTRATION B. H.
Roberts evaluates his presidency as follows: "... Had he come to his position of chief leadership of the Church earlier in life, there is no question but that his administration would have been far more notable than it was under the limitations of three years, and under the handicap of extreme old age. But even as it was, in his achievements as the prophet leader of modern Israel... He set the Church in the way of being delivered from the financial straits into which it had fallen; and had given an impetus to the mission and dignity of the priesthood."
Questions and Problems for Discussion 1.
What factors do you think led to the cessation of such cooperative movements as that at Brigham City when they appeared to be beneficial for the participants? (See Essentials of Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, pp. 543-544.) 2.
What do you suppose caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 3. Why is it essential that the Saints be  constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 4.
What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a result of President Snow's stimulation of tithepaying?
Topics for Study and Special Reports 1. Relate Lorenzo Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church, as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 383-384.); 2.
Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church. (See Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. Vl, pp. 376-380.) References John Henry Evans, Joseph Smith?An American Prophet, pp. 244-245. Improvement Era, Vol. II, p. 795. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 217-218; Vol. VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. Eliza R. And Lorenzo Snow, The Palestine Tourist. Norte: The following, copied from the private journal of Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, dated February 8, 1886, is of interest in connection with the account of the miraculous escape of President Wilford Woodruff from the hands of his enemies, referred to in Lesson 5, "Faith?A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff, the Great Evangelist," published in the November Magazine, page 783: "Today (Feb. 8) about twenty deputy marshalls searched the Gardo House, Church offices, Tithing Office and Historian's Office. In the latter place Wilford Woodruff and Erastus Snow were in great danger, but we succeeded in getting Brother Woodruft off by strategy and Erastus Snow likewise got away from the marshalls. Brother Woodruff walked across the street with me unnoticed." Usiting Seacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 6
Spiritual Preparation of the Home (Tuesday, March 4, 1941) "Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God." (I Corinthians 2:12) THE spirit of the home is the important and lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical aspects are forgotten. The spiritual preparation of the home for honoring the Priesthood depends largely upon the attitudes which are cultivated there and which are unconsciously absorbed by the children. An attitude of cooperation and helpfulness toward the ward bishop and other Church officers, rather than one of criticism, creates confidence and respect for them in the minds of children. The ward teachers visit homes of Church members by authority of the Priesthood, and the spirit with which they are received and the honor shown them will also have its effect on the members of the family. An absence of complaint on the part of the mother because of Priesthood activities which take the father away from home, and an attitude of encouragement to him in the performance of his duties, cannot fail to impress the children with the importance of the Priesthood. The ordination of a boy to the Aaronic Priesthood can be made a special event in the home. There could be a program of stories and incidents which show the blessings and powers of this Priesthood, as well as a history of its restoration in our time. Prayer, both family and individual, is a spiritual power in any home. Home Discussion Helps "It is the spirit which leads us to the performance of our duties." 'Without the spirit of the Gospel, we have only the form, which is without real power for good. -Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 6
Food for the Older Woman (Tuesday, March 11, 1941) HE wisest time to make plans for the diet of the older woman is during the years before she becomes an older woman. Doctors who specialize in diseases of the older age-groups claim that many 846 disturbances of later life might have been prevented through better food selection during the earlier adult years. Much of the treatment for the ailments of older people is dietary, with special emphasis on the protective foods. Fruits, vegetables, and milk are used extensively. Diet will neither cure nor prevent all disorders, although many of them do come from a lifetime of poor food habits. An adequate food supply served on a regular meal schedule is just as important in maintaining the body in a state of good health as one grows older as it was in producing a healthy body during childhood. The older woman is less active, her body processes slow down, and she needs fewer calories than during her younger adult years. This means cutting down on starches, sugars, and fats. She still has the same need for minerals, vitamins and proteins as when she was more active. Because so much attention has been centered on child nutrition during the recent past, many adults have taken the attitude that childhood is the only time when adequate nuttition is important, and consequently are extremely careless with their own food selection. Women who live alone are the greatest offenders against good nutrition for themselves. Frequent comments are, "Oh, that doesn't apply to me. My family is grown. I live alone. It doesn't matter what I eat. Besides, I lost all my teeth years ago."