Ericksen; Amy Brown Lyman, Clarissa A. Beesley, and May Anderson.
Benson Stake.
The officers of the Benson stake Relief Society gave a social on August 29 in the Benson stake tabernacle at Richmond, Utah. The ward officers and members were guests at this affair. An excellent program was rendered, after which games were played. Luncheon was served to all by the stake board. Over 300 officers and members were present.
In the Benson stake the Relief Society women have conducted special summer work. The Richmond ward reports that it has held several meetings at the home of the sick and homebound. One meeting was held at the home of a woman who had been unable to attend meeting for several years. The women called on her and held a regular meeting, a special feature of which was an excellent musical program. She was presented with flowers, and at the close of the meeting she said she had not spent such a happy day for many months.
Burley Stake.
The ward conferences of the Burley stake have been very successful. Much thought was given to the preparation of the programs and a good spirit was manifest in all the meetings. All the wards, with the exception of the Hazel ward, which is disorganized, are completely officered and are doing good work. The women show a willingness to work along community welfare lines, which is very gratifying. During the summer months the stake officers conducted weekly classes in sewing and cook-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 91
ing. By this plan it was hoped to better living conditions in the homes. The course was successful, and a similar plan will be carried out next summer. An interest in homemaking and domestic science and economy was aroused which will undoubtedly be of value to the mothers in the community.
Oneida-Franklin Stakes.
A special Relief Society celebration was held by the Oneida and Franklin stakes on October 28, 1922, at Preston, Idaho. In response to the special invitation, the executive officers of the General Board, President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselors Jennie B. Knight, and Louise Y. Robison and General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, attended the meetings on that day, and the board meetings and social given the preceding evening. Mrs. Nellie P. Head, president of the Oneida stake, presided at the morning meeting. Other speakers at this session were Oneida stake counselor P. M. Condie, President Clarissa S. Williams and Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Veroka G. Nash, president of the Franklin stake, presided and spoke at the afternoon meeting, and addresses were also made by President Samuel W. Parkinson, of Franklin stake, Jennie B. Knight, Louise Y. Robison, and President Clarissa S. Williams. There were over 600 in attendance at the two sessions which were exceptionally instructive and inspirational. Between the two meetings, Relief Society women served an elaborate banquet.
Netherlands Mission
In a letter from Lyman Williams to his mother, President Clarissa S. Williams, we learn of a Christmas celebration which was held in Arnhem, Holland, under the direction of the missionaries and the Relief Society of this branch. A beautiful Christmas tree was prepared which held a lovely toy and an article of clothing for each child, in addition to sweetmeats. This Christmas celebration was very greatly appreciated by the people of the branch, who spent an enjoyable and happy time together on this occasion.
IN MEMORIAM
St. Joseph Stake.
It is with sincere sorrow that the Magazine announces to its readers the death of Mrs. Josephine Cluff Kimball of Thatcher, Arizona, on October 12, 1922. Until January, 1921, when she was released because of poor health, Mrs. Kimball was president of the St. Joseph stake Relief Society. She was an active Relief Society worker for twenty years, having served in her stake as secretary, prior to her appointment as president. In her labors she was faithful and devoted, and she accomplished much in rais-


ing the standard of Relief Society work in her community. Throughout her entire life she was active in the affairs of the Church and in 1904-06 she served as a missionary in the Central states. She was the wife of Andrew Kimball, president of the St. Joseph stake. Both as a wife and mother, and as a community worker, she was true to the highest ideals of her religion.
Woodruff Stake.
Mrs. Christiena Hunter Brown, an active Relief Society worker of the Evanston ward, was called by death on December 5, 1922. She was in charge of the Magazine subscriptions for the ward and at the time of her death she had her list of one hundred names ready for the new year. She was always efficient and business-like in her Magazine work, and it was always a pleasure for the Magazine department to receive Mrs. Brown's neat and accurate lists and to do business with her.
Parowan Stake.
In the death of Minerva S. Lund, June 20, 1922, the Church and community lost one of its most faithful workers. Mrs. Lund has made her home in the Paragonah ward since her marriage to Alfred W. Lund, in 1894. Among other positions, Mrs. Lund has been a counselor in the Relief Society, which position she held at the time of her death. Mrs. Lund was ever a friend to those in distress and trouble, often helping others, even when it required a personal sacrifice. She was a woman of great faith and an ardent temple worker. She is survived by her husband and four children.
North Weber Stake.
Mrs. Eliza Jane Cheney Rawson one of the early pioneers of Utah, passed away at her daughter's home in Ogden, in December. Mrs. Rawson was born at Kirtland, Ohio, in 1837. Her parents were among the first to join the "Mormon" Church and she remembered seeing the Prophet Joseph Smith when she was but a small girl. With her parents she crossed the plains, arriving in Utah in 1850. Within one year after her arrival, she was left an orphan, and she was cared for by her kind friends among the pioneers. In 1856 she was married to William C. Rawson. She is the mother of seven children and one foster-child and is ancestor of fifty grandchildren, sixty-five great grandchildren, and three great great grandchildren. Mrs. Rawson has been an active Church worker, and was an efficient Relief Society treasurer of the Farr West ward for twenty-eight years. She is remembered with love and honor by her posterity and her many friends.
EDITORIAL


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Business Manager - - - - - JEANNETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah


A PATRIOTIC DUTY
Two holidays are observed in February, the 12th and 22nd respectively—the birthdays of Abraham Lincoln and George Washington. These two great American patriots served as Chief Magistrate of the United States in the two very critical periods of this Nation's history; Washington when the union was brought into existence, and Lincoln when that existence was threatened by a great civil war. The war for secession was designated by the voice of prophecy as "rebellion," not revolution, hence doomed to failure. Of the war for American independence, the prophetic voice had declared that the people forming this Nation were to be "delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations," hence the beginning of this American Republic in the latter days.
The freedom of the United States from Great Britain came out of a "bondage" of oppression by the latter. But in the loss of this land they did get a new idea of non-oppression to dependencies, and it is history that since the American revolution Great Britain has not lost a single colony, but all stand patriotically with her.
Referring to history: Does it occur to our minds that on this American continent two great nations and peoples have perished—nations that were set up by the blessing of God, yet departed from his ways? Read the lesson in the Book of Mormon history of the Jaredites and the Nephites. What act was the inception of the overthrow of each of these peoples? It was the overturning of the form of government which the God of heaven had prescribed for them. Writing of secret or exclusive societies or combinations


which effected that overturn, the historian Moroni (Ether, chap 8) departs from making his abridgment of the record to say that "they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi;" and he adds a warning that the people of this Nation will face "overthrow and destruction" if similar combinations succeed in obtaining control of the people and property in this land.
Does the United States face in its history still another great crisis, as indicated by the prophetic words of the Prophet Moroni? And is the present the time when such crisis is at hand? Or, may there be now a deep-laid plan to overturn the form of government which God has prescribed for this land? Present occurrences ought to answer those queries very distinctly.
Let us see: In December, 1922, this official announcement to the National Congress, in Washington, was made by the Federal Bureau of Investigation: "Documents obtained during the past year clearly indicate that the communist internationale is behind a strong movement among negroes, labor unions, and various social and women's clubs, the ultimate purpose being to undermine those organizations, with a view of overthrowing the United States government and establishing dictatorship of the proletariat."
In the press report of resolutions adopted by the third internationale at Moscow, Russia, on December 1, 1922, in which the civil war resulting in the abolition of slavery in the United States was referred to as "capitalistic," it was announced of one of these series of resolutions: "The resolution, which was adopted without a dissenting vote, declares that the negro question has become a live issue in efforts toward a world revolution."
During the same month, Miss Alice Robertson, member of Congress from Oklahoma, issued this public statement: "Oklahoma didn't go Democratic; it went radical. I tremble for Oklahoma. There are very hard times ahead. All of us who try to do things with a respect for the Constitution and American institutions are subject to attack by radicals."
Also, in December, in New York City, meetings of the leading representatives of what is known as the "Workers' Party"—a political organization which claims a vast membership in the United States among the so-called "working classes" and embracing both industrial and agricultural laborers—openly announced that party's aim to be: "To create in the United States a soviet government, and establish the dictation of the proletariat."
EDITORIAL 95
Relative to government in this Nation, the Lord has declared (Doc. And Cov. 121:8): "I established the Constitution of this land by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose." Deliberate plans to overthrow the present United States government which was framed under Divine inspiration have reached so serious and menacing a stage that they cannot longer be safely ignored. In the crisis now clearly at hand, the line of duty for all Latter-day Saints is definitely marked. They have before them the example of patriotism in Washington and Lincoln and their compatriots. It will be well for them to follow this example, not alone because these great leaders were firm and fearless in behalf of the American Union, but also because of their sacred duty to uphold and defend that form of government which God has established in this age, for his Divine purposes. Nothing less than this is real patriotism for them, both as Americans and as Saints, women as well as men.
DUTY OF THE SAINTS TO SUSTAIN AND LIVE THE LAW
I endorse with all my heart this declaration (Doc. And Cov. 134) sustained by the unanimous vote of the general conference in 1835. I am convinced beyond the shadow of a doubt that it is the duty of every Latter-day Saint to sustain and live the law. I believe that every Latter-day Saint who has any idea in his or her heart that some law has been passed that is not a righteous law, after it has been fought out in the courts and has been decided, whatever the decision may be, by the highest tribunal of our great and glorious country, the Supreme Court of the United States, that it is his duty to obey such law. I believe that every Latter-day Saint—and by the way no man is a Latter-day Saint who drinks whisky—but any "Mormon" who drinks whisky today knows that he is in condemnation before the Lord Almighty, whether he is the one who bought the whisky, or whether he is simply a partaker of it. I believe that every Latter-day Saint owes it to himself to uphold and sustain what is known as the cigarette law, and I believe that we as a people should know by the announcement of every man who is to be elected to the legislature, that he will stand for that law, and if he will not so announce himself, if his opponent, no matter what his politics may be, will stand for that law, that we ought to bury our politics and vote for the man favoring the retaining and enforcing of the cigarette law. President Heber J. Grant, October, 1922, Conference. Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) CARD PLAYING This lesson title may seem out of place as a name for a lesson on theology or religion, but any subject or theme which has been made a matter of consideration by direct revelation or by the inspired leaders of the Church, may with propriety be studied from a theological point of view, and the findings made to depend upon what revelation as well as science and philosophy has to say about the matter. With the Latter-day Saints idleness is not only unethical, but it is irreligious, because God has declared against it. The use of intoxicants is unethical, because it endangers the welfare of society; it is unlawful, because the state has legislated against it, making it a misdemeanor; it is sinful, because the word of the Lord written and spoken among us, is against intemperance. Our thesis in this lesson is: Card Playing should not be indulged in. And we will consider the reasons for our declaration under three heads—psychological or personal welfare reasons, social or public welfare reasons, theological or soul welfare reasons. Personal welfare or psychological reasons. 1. Any appetite that creates an excessive desire for itself is injurious to the individual, and card playing develops not only the habit but a craving for itself that results in the weakening of will and the loss of self-control in that particular direction. The chance element in the game keeps up a sort of mental exhilaration and so stimulates hope that it becomes abnormal. The card player, all unconscious of the fact, becomes an individual of luck instead of one of pluck. The recreation of card playing is a bad kind of recreation. The card player in many cases is literally dragged into a state of mind that makes a world of chance the most desirable one in which to live. He finds little or no joy in anything that is not bristling with hazard. Many men and some women will impulsively stake their all on some "chance." 2. Card playing interferes with individual culture. The language of the card table is coarse and generally low; the themes of conversation are as a rule not those of the elevative type. The GUIDE LESSONS 97 times spent is more than wasted. Art and literature form little or no part of the dreams of the ardent card player. Card playing is not the recreative resort of big minds but rather the refuge of the small intellects. It is not the center of attraction for the lofty, but rather the rendezvous of the low. It therefore cuts one out of good company, even when one is alone. 3. Card playing injures one's reputation for honesty. An application for any position of honor or trust would be kept long on the waiting list if it were known that the applicant was addicted to card playing. Surety companies are wisely concerned about the habits of persons for whose integrity they become financially responsible, and the card player may well be considered an unsafe investment. Sociological Reasons:—l. Card playing cuts in the happiness of society; is the comcomitant of social iniquity, the adjunct of the saloon, the gambling den and the brothel. The hold-up, the burglar, the murderer, are, as a rule, trained at the card table. 2. Card playing lowers the social standards of society. Card clubs will beat the heaven out of any community that fosters them. Card "Bridge" first, and then comes the "Bridge of Sighs" in the family circle. 3. Card playing points to national decay. The nation notorious for cards and cigarettes has almost lost its power to think victory in anything, and our neighbor indulging in revolution after revolution owes her instablility to the gambling proclivities of her people. Her territory has become the home of laziness and the rendezvous of outlaws. Theological Reasons—1. Card playing is at best known as a vice; it is neither lovely, chaste, virtuous, nor of good report, and therefore excluded by the provisions of the 13th article of our faith. 2. Card playing has been and still is discountenanced by the authorities of the Church. President Brigham Young counseled and advised against it, denounced it, saying to the pioneers: "I would rather see in your hands the dirtiest things you could find on earth than a pack of cards," (See William Clayton's Journal, page 193.) His daughter, Susa Young Gates, states that he looked upon a pack of playing cards as the "Devil's Bible," fit only for the fire. President Joseph F. Smith is on record against card playing in most emphatic terms, counseling, pleading and warning. (See Gospel Doctrine, pp. 410 to 416.) The present leaders in the Church are no less pronounced in their disapproval of card playing than were their predecessors. 3. Card playing is incompatible with the Spirit of the Lord. 
 It lessens one's loyalty to our leaders and it leads to spiritual darkness, which is one of the greatest calamities that can come to an individual, a family, or community, or to a generation. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. State the thesis or declaration of this lesson. 2. Of the three personal reasons given for not indulging in card playing which is the strongest? 3. Wherein does card playing start a young person off wrong?, 4. If card playing is not bad in and of itself, how are we to account for its being so attractive to lovers of evil? 5. Why do we never see card playing advertised in the press? 6. When we argue in favor of card playing what about our Church loyalty? 7. Quote President Brigham Young on handling cards.. 8. Give President Joseph F. Smith's estimate of a person who will encourage children to play cards. 9, Quote President Smith from last sentence on page 412, Gospel Doctrine. 10. Quote President Smith from first sentence second paragraph, page 413, Gospel Doctrine. 11. How would you prove to a young person that card playing lessens his chance to get a good position? 12. How does card playing affect one's leadership privileges in the Church? 13. Illustrate the following truth: The roads of gambling and Godliness run parallel to each other, but the travel on them is always in opposite directions. 14. How can the Relief Society 'best aid in eliminating the card playing evil? LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in April) GUIDE LESSONS 99 LESSON III Literature R (Third Week in April) WASHINGTON IRVING ' Benjamin Franklin was of the Colonial and of the Revolutionary period. Washington Irving made his advent with the ushering in of the new order, and for that. Reason he may be regarded as the first author of the Republic. He was born April 3, 1783, in New York City. George Washington was, at the time of Irving's birth, the national hero, and for that reason Irving was given his name. In later years when guests called on Irving at his beautiful home in Tarrytown, on the banks of the Hudson, he was fond of telling them how his nurse once intercepted Washington on horseback, "to show him a bairn that was called after him," and how the Father of his Country laid his hands upon his head and gave him a formal blessing. Irving was not robust in health, as a young man, and for that reason he was denied the privilege that came to his two older brothers of attending Columbia University. In 1804 he went abroad returning in 1806. The Napoleonic wars were in progress; and he witnessed Nelson's fleet a short time before it made itself famous in the battle of Trafalgar. He was inconvenienced rather frequently, while in Europe, because of war conditions and was at one time arrested as a British spy. This would have greatly disturbed some persons, but it did not affect Irving greatly, for he found the countries where he was visiting full of romance, and the delays furnished an 22M for the romance to take hold of him. On his return in 1806 he began the practice of law. Like Sir 
 Walter Scott he was very much more interested in legend and history than he was in law. He used to tell, in a mischievous way, how the firm with which he was connected had Aaron Burr's case and that Aaron Burr was acquitted.  He was a partner in the law firm of Josiah Ogden Hoffman, whose daughter Mitilda became his sweetheart. This was the one touch of personal romance in Irving's whole career. He was not of age and she was only seventeen when the engagement occurred; a few months later she died. When Irving passed away, at the age of seventy-six, a locket containing her miniature and a piece of her hair was taken from his neck. He had lived unmarried, devoted to her memory. His first literary undertaking was in connection with his brother William, and a friend, James Kirk Paulding, with whom he cooperated in producing Salmagundt. It remained for his History of New York to create a literary sensation. The novel way in which he introduced the work to the public assured its popularity from the beginning. He announced in the papers that the manuscript had been found by the landlord of the Columbian Hotel among the effects of a departed lodger, and that it had been sold to a printer to offset the lodger's indebtedness. Before the manuscript was disposed of, Seth Handaside, the landlord, inserted in New York and Philadelphia papers an advertise- - ment describing Mr. Knickerbocker and asking for information about him. When the people did learn that the story like the history was fictitious, they were greatly surprised. Irving, perhaps, could never quite explain to his friends of the old Dutch families why he felt at liberty to handle them just as he did. In a most amusing history he gives us pen portraits of the old Dutch burghers that are and doubtless will be valued for generations to come. - Irving was taken into partnership with his two brothers, in 1810, who were merchants and importers. In 1814 when war troubles were over in America, he was sent as a representative of the merchants' firm to Liverpool. Had success attended this business venture Irving's pen might have been silenced; fortunately for the world he was compelled to turn to writing as a means of support. In 1819 the Sketch Book was published in New York, and in 1820 in London. This is the best known of Irving's writings both in America and Europe. It has been translated into French, German, and Italian, and is used by these people in their schools and colleges as a model of English composition. Ichabod Crane and Rip Van Winkle were read with much interest both at home and abroad. Alexander Everett was United States minister to Spain in GUIDE LESSONS 101 1826, and through him Irving was made attache to the Legation at Madrid. This gave Irving the opportunity, which he readily grasped, to collect Spanish material. He turned his attention first, to a life of Columbus, which biography was completed in 1827. Then he turned to the Alhambra, and in order to secure what he felt to be the proper atmosphere for his work he lived in the palace of the Alhambra for a season. He visited Seville, and as a result of his close contact with Spanish life and Spanish material, published The Conquest of Granada, in 1829, and the Legend of the Alhambra in 1832. His reputation was now established both in Binetica and Europe. In 1829 he was made a member of the Royal Academy or History in Madrid. The Royal Society of London voted him one of its medals in 1830, the only other medal of that year was awarded Hallam for his history of the Middle Ages. At this point we would emphasize the fact that Irving was recognized as a historian both in Spain and England. A short time after receiving the medal from the Royal Saciety of London, Irving was honored with the degree of Doctor of Laws from Oxford University. It was possibly disconcerting to one of his shy nature to have the Oxford students in the gallery call out as he entered the room where the ceremony was to take place, "Here comes old Knickerbocker!' "How about Ichabod Crane?" "Has Rip Van Winkle waked up yet?" and 'Who discevered Columbus?" but it was nevertheless a great compliment, for it was unmistakable evidence that they had read his writings. In 1832 Irving returned home after having been absent from the United States for seventeen years. He was a bit disheartened, for a time, for his American publisher told him that it was no use getting out new editions of his work, as the public taste had changed and there was no longer a demand for his writings. The judgment of his publishers did not prove correct, for later Putnam found him a source of a very substantial income for many years. Irving had some holdings in the West that proved profitable, toward the end of his life. Soon after his return from England, he took a trip into the West in order to see these holdings. Out of this brief excursion into what was then frontier country, we have his Tour of the Prairies, written in 1835. Many people interested in pioneer effort still find this material entertaining reading. Irving received an appointment from President Tyler in 1842 making him minister to Spain. He seemied to feel it incumbent upon him to write a sketch or a book whenever a new experience came into his life. As a result of this feeling we have his History and Legend of Spain during the Moorish occupation. 
 Irving's final contribution, and in some respects his greatest work, was completed on his seventy-sixth birthday. It is The Life of George Washington. He felt that his strength was failing and expressed great fear lest he should not be able to finish the work, but he did and was permitted to hold the printed volume in his hand before he died. Irving did distinctive service by living in Great Britain and making use of British themes. It had become the fashion in America to ridicule everything British and in England to ridicule everything American in the period immediately following the Revolutionary war. Irving's sympathetic attitude toward the English people and his sympathetic use of British material did much to lessen the rancor and bitterness that had grown up between the two countries as the result of the war. Classic legends tell us that everything King Midas touched turned into gold; everything Irving touched turned into romance and beauty. Beautiful and interesting as are the banks of the "lovely Hudson" Irving has made them more beautiful; enchanting as are Italian Tales, he has added to their enchantment; brilliant as was Spanish life, he has made it more brilliant; attractive and mysterious as are the legends clinging to the castles and halls of aristocratic England, he augmented their attractiveness and riystery. One of the most significant contributions America has made io the literature of the world is that of the short story. Irving is the great pioneer in this line. The next lesson will be devoted to the American short story, featuring in particular the short stories of Washington Irving. References: Irving's complete work, or any collections contain'ng selections from Irving that may 'be accessible. In centers where there are libraries, it should not be difficult to obtain Irving's works. Read as much as you can, the more you are able to read the better it is for you personally. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Present to the class one of Irving's famous pen portraits taken for the History of New York, the Life of Columbus, or the Life of Washington. 2. Give the names of as many of Irving's writings as you can call to mind. 3. Why should it be an easy matter for Latter-day Saints to remember the year when Irving received the medal of the Royal Society of London? 4. Go to an encyclopedia or the Century Dictionary of Names and find something of biographical interest concerning Hallam, the historian, and report to the class. GUIDE LESSONS 103 5. Have someone tell where and when the battle of Trafalgar took place, and some: hing about the contesting nations, 6. Select one of Irving's descriptive passages to read to the class; we suggests something from the Alhambra by Moonlight or Lake Bonneville. 7. Are we passing through a period of prejudice towards the people of other nations that parallels in some particulars the attitude of America and Great Britain after the-Revolutionary war? Discuss such an attitude; is it helpful or hurtful to national life and individual character? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in April) THE DANGERS IN COURTSHIP To protect their sons and daughters from sin is the greatest concern of parents. MODESTY AND DIGNITY IN COURTSHIP The. Modesty with which our parents have always treated the matter of sexual life has been in itself a protection against vice and immorality. The present tendency to discuss openly the great reproductive function should by no means lead to the breaking down of the taboo which has in the past prevented dangerous familiarity in both words and acts. It has prevented improper stories from being told by men in the presence of women. It has prevented women from improperly exposing their bodies. It has suppressed vulgarity of every sort. Modesty and dignity are virtues inasmuch as they protect the sacredness of the human body, guard the mind against immoral thoughts and keep the soul unspotted from the sins of the world. "Certain abstinences," says Drake, "that might not seem in themselves important, are necessary. Little familiarities, kisses and caresses, must be avoided; they are a playing with fire; and the youth never knows when the electric thrill will vibrate through his being, awakened by a touch, that will summon him to a new world wherein he must not yet enter. The finest men do not take these liberties, nor do well-bred girls permit them nor respect those who seek them. Vulgar jokes and stories must be despised, as well as all allusions to vice as a natural or amusing thing.' "—Drake, Problems of Conduct. Pp. 218. THE STRANGER... So frequently has our indignation been aroused by the conduct of men who come into our communities and prey upon the ignorant 
 and innocent, that we have sometimes been led to question the moral character of all strangers who come to our towns. Perhaps - a small minority only of strangers are a moral menace to our communities. The wholesale condemnation of a class of people is no solution to the problem. What parents must insist upon is that the stranger be not given a place of confidence until his character ls known. As long as he is a. Stranger, he should not receive unrestricted privileges in the association of our daughters. High regard for the reputation of our daughters will dictate reasonable precautions. For example, it is certainly improper for parents to permit their daughter to go out for an evening auto ride with a man who has been in the community one, two, or three days and. Of whose character nothing really is known. In fact, we may very properly question the advisability of inviting a stranger into our parties unless one is there to vouch for his character. The fact that a man is a stranger in a community makes him feel less responsible for his conduct. He is there for a short time; in two or three days he may be many hundred miles away. He may never see the result of his conduct. He does not expect to see again the people whose lives. He may have injured. INSINCERITY IN COURTSHIP One reason why young people treat courtship too lightly is the fact that insincerity has been accepted as a sort of necessary evil. A flirt, for example, is thought to be clever and is admired by her friends. Frequently we hear men boast of their success in winning the hearts of young women for whom they care very little. "But why," says Henderson, "should a sacred tree be planted and made to grow until its tree form is necessary to the mind and its roots are deep in the earth, only to pluck it up, bleeding away its life, and leave it to perish. Is there anything honorable in the boast of conquest?"—Henderson: Social Duties, p. 26: To break a human heart is indeed a sinful act, but flirtation leads to a more grievous sin. When dishonesty and deceit is once admitted by a young man as proper in the sacred field of courtship, it may not be long before he will go further. The man who will treat lightly a woman's heart, deceive her to satisfy his own fickle nature, may sacrifice even higher womanly values to promote his own selfish impulses. When we trust a man or woman it is because he or she stands for principle and lives above selfish interests. Courtship has revealed virtues of the highest order in the form of devotion and self-sacrifice. But, on the other hand, it has also revealed some of the most cruel and selfish acts that human nature is capable of. GUIDE LESSONS 105 THE WAGES OF SIN IS DEATH "Death" is a mild term to express the consequences of immorality. Many times worse than death are the physical and mental defects which follow such a life. Many times worse than death is the sorrow that comes to innocent wives and children. Besides this there are many thousands of children who are blind or physically deformed because of sexual disease contracted by immoral parents. Many go through life cursed with the disgrace of illegitimacy. Thousands of homes are broken up and children deprived of parental protection. The finer moral sentiments, the higher spiritual interests of life are deadened in this way. The word of the Lord in modern revelation concerning those who commit the sexual sins is indeed true: According to revelation they, "shall be destroyed in the flesh and shall be delivered unto the buffetings of Satan unto the day of redemption." Doc. And Cov. 132:26. THE SWEETNESS OF A PURE LIFE Contrast the misery of a life of sin with the blessing of pure lives so beautifully described by Drake: "When the veil of mystery is not too rudely drawn aside, the ability to respond to the charm of girlhood and of ripe womanhood may be long retained; the pleasures of sex that count for most in the end are not the moments of passion, but the daily enjoyment of companionship with the opposite sex, the assurance and comfort of mutual fidelity, the love that feeds on daily caresses, endearing words, and acts of tender service. And these lasting joys do not accrue to the man or woman who ls not willing to wait, or who squanders his potentialities of love in reckless and fundamentally unsatisfying debauchery. This is the paradox of love; whoso find its best gifts must be willing to deny himself its gaudest. The old love of twos, the loyalty of man and wife that bring fo each other pure hearts and bodies, is best."—Problems of Conduct, Drake, p. 216-217. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why is modesty so important in courtship? 2. President Joseph F. Smith once said that the kiss is a sacred act and belongs exclusively to the family. Justify his position. 3. What attitude is generally taken toward the flirt in your community? 4. Show that insincerity in courtship may lead to unchastity. 5. What is the proper attitude toward a stranger who seeks fo take your daughter out for an evening automobile ride? 
 6. Why do men not feel the same sense of responsibility ainong strangers that they do in their home community? 7. What protection does your local community provide against the irresponsible individuals who seek admission into dancing parties and other social activities? What more might be done by way of moral protection?: 8. What are the consequences (a) physically, (b) socially, of an immoral life? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL THE FLY EVIL Prevention is better than cure. To nurse the sick, in case of need, and to help restore them to health has always been regarded as a duty of the Relief Society. Is it not well, also, to prevent sickness and thus save economic loss, suffering, and possible death? The house fly is a great carrier of disease germs. Its legs are covered with filth, some of which is deposited on everything the fly touches. It should never be tolerated in the house, or in contact with food anywhere. It is said by biologists that a very few flies appearing in the springtime will produce millions before the end of summer. It is, therefore, very important to destroy these early flies as fast as they appear. Have all windows and doors well screened. Destroy breeding places for flies. By these means some individuals may be saved from typhoid and possibly other diseases; all may be saved the unpleasant experience of eating fly contaminated food. Too much cannot be seid to impress upon the minds of the people the absolute necessity of trying to exterminate this unnecessary but very prevalent evil. Note: In speaking of teachers' districts it is urged that Relief Society women avoid using "teachers' beat." The term is indefinite and undignified and should not be used in connection with Relief Society teaching. It is preferred that the women use "teachers' district," when referring to their territory. To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relicf Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying,. "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.