What A Prophet Means To Latter-Day Saints Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Member of the Council of the Twelve (Relief Society Conference Address, October 2, 1940)
I AM asked to discuss the question, "What a Prophet Means to Latter-day Saints." In order to get this question before us, perhaps it would be well to first discuss the question, "What is a prophet?"
The idea prevails quite generally in the world, and has come down through the ages, that a prophet is a man who keeps himself aloof from the rest of his fellow-beings, a recluse, dressed perhaps in camel's hair or in some other garment that would distinguish him from the rest of humanity; that he mingles with humanity only when the spirit of prophecy is upon him; moreover, that a prophet is one who speaks by inspiration and reveals the future.
But this is only one of the qualifications of a prophet. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Malachi, and others have prophesied of the future, and have given us a great deal of information beneficial to the world. But we have no revelation given to us concerning Melchizedek, and yet it is said of Melchizedek that there was none greater before him. So great was he that the Lord honored him by having the Priesthood after the order of the Son of God called after his name, and so we call it the Melchizedek Priesthood. We have no prophecies except the statements that were of local color coming to us from Elijah, and yet Elijah is referred to constantly throughout the Scriptures and by us today as Elijah the Prophet, because of the greatness of his work. The Lord said of John the Baptist that there was none greater. No prophet had been born into this world greater than John, and yet John's prophesying was limited to the coming of Christ.
Then, what is a prophet? A prophet, as I understand the term, is one who teaches by the voice of inspiration the words of eternal life, and who officiates in the saving ordinances of the Gospel. Predicting is only one, I say, qualification of a prophet.
When John was on the Isle of Patmos, a messenger came to him, and John fell to his knees and was about to worship him. But this messenger said unto him, "See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the Testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy." In other words, every person who is baptized and confirmed should have the spirit of inspiration and should know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. Every person should live in harmony with the revealed truth; and in doing that, and receiving the testimony through the Holy Spirit that Jesus lives and is the Son of God, he or she becomes a prophet or prophetess, and is entitled to the guidance of the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, who is the spirit of prophecy.
Now to understand the nature of a prophet, and the need of prophecy, it is necessary for us to discuss the nature of life, life in its fullest sense, not life merely here in this world, but life in all of its existence and throughout all eternity. We lived in the presence of God in the spirit before we came here. We desired to be like Him, we saw Him, we were in His presence. There is not a soul in this building today who has not seen both the Father and the Son, and in the spirit world we were in their presence; but it became necessary for us to gain experiences which could not be obtained in that world of spirits, and so we were accorded the privilege of coming down here upon this earth. And the Lord, as he stood there in the midst of the spirits, said that they would go down and prepare an earth upon which they could dwell, and He said:
"And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them;
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:25-26)
SO we were placed here upon this earth for the purpose of gaining experience. When Adam was placed in the Garden of Eden he was innocent; he knew not the difference between right and wrong; he was immortal; he was not subject to death, and it became necessary that he should transgress the law under which he was living so that mortality could come upon him, and thus from him to all of his posterity. The fruit of the knowledge of the tree of good and evil was placed before him in order to bring to pass that very condition. We read in the Scriptures that "Adam fell that man might be, and men are that they might have joy." He knew nothing of pain, nothing of sorrow; in fact, all the vicissitudes of mortality came into existence through the fall of man, but the fall of man, of course, of necessity shut Adam out of the presence of God. It also shut his posterity out of His presence. Therefore, it became necessary that someone be sent from the heavens to teach Adam that he might know and understand the plan of salvation and exaltation, and the means by which he could overcome the difficulties of mortal life and come back again into the presence of God the Father. So an angel was sent to him to instruct him and, among other things, the angel said unto him, "Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son for evermore." And the principles of the Gospel were made known to him and to Eve.
Mother Eve has preached one of the finest discourses that was ever delivered by any preacher upon the earth. It is very brief, and I am going to read it to you:
"And Eve, his wife, heard all these things (that is, the things which the angel declared unto Adam) and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:11)
And all that came by reason of the fall. If it had not been for the fall, we would not be here. Adam and Eve would have remained in the Garden of Eden; they would not have known good and evil; they would have learned nothing about the redemption which was prepared before the foundation of the world; for Jesus was chosen and the redemption was prepared before the foundation of the world to bring Adam and all his posterity back to life through the resurrection, to give unto them immortality and, if they would keep the commandments of God, eternal life.
So it was necessary that these principles of salvation should be taught to the children of men. The Lord sent prophets among them, and these prophets preached the word of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth. We read further:
"And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters.
"And Satan came among them, saying: I am also a son of God, and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish." (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:12-13)
That is the condition that has prevailed in the world since the fall of man. Nevertheless, the Lord has sent His angels; He has spoken unto man by His own voice, and has given unto man inspiration so that the human family might know the plan of salvation and might have the privilege of living in the light of truth and walking before the Lord in righteousness.
In Section 1 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we have a very significant statement. The Lord says:
"And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people;
"For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant;
"They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:14-16)
NOW because of this condition, because of the agency of man, and because Satan came among them, the majority of mankind has turned away from the teaching the Lord has given. They have refused to hearken to the counsels of prophets and apostles; but the Lord has sent to them, notwithstanding these conditions, down through the ages, His servants, the prophets, to teach them. Let me read further:
"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments;
"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets—
(This is very significant)
"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man neither trust in the arm of flesh—
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;" (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:17-20)
That is the reason for the restoration of the Gospel through prophets. That is the significance of prophets among Latter-day Saints.
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;
"That faith also might increase in the earth;
"That mine everlasting covenant might be established;
"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:20-23)
According to this, not only Joseph Smith was to be a prophet, not only his counselors and the Council of the Twelve were to be prophets, but every person who would be willing to accept the truth, who would humble himself, and come into the Church, might speak in the name of God, the Lord, even the Savior of the world. The purpose of prophecy, in the sense in which I have interpreted it, is that faith also might increase in the world. If we had no revelation, if there should be no opening of the heavens, no guidance by inspiration or revelation, then we ourselves would drift into forbidden paths, and it would only be a short time until we would be just as bad off as the rest of the world.
We look upon the writings in the Bible as scripture, and have accepted them as scripture. We look upon the writings in the Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and Book of Mormon as scripture; we have accepted them in that way. But have we realized that these prophets of old spoke under the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord just as elders of Israel are entitled to do today? Let me read this to you. The Lord, speaking to one of his servants who was to go forth and preach the Gospel, told him to go forth and preach among the congregations of the wicked by the spirit of the living God: