[Vol28 | January 1941 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: GamblingJudge Clark]
Regardless  of  one's  attitude  as  to  cards,  tables,  checks,  balls,  wheels, 
gambling,  there  are  two  paramount  slot  machines  or  other  gambling  de- 
questions  which  arise  in  our  minds:  vices  and  convey  the  same  before  a 
First,  is  one  violating  the  law  of  the  magistrate  of  the  county  in  which 
state  by  gambling,  thereby  making  such  devices  shall  be  found;  and  it 
himself  a  criminal  in  the  eyes  of  the  shall  be  the  duty  of  such  magistrate 
law  and  subjecting  himself  to  crim-  to  inquire  of  such  witnesses  as  he 
inal  prosecution?  Second,  is  one  shall  summon  or  as  may  appear  be- 
in  juring  himself  or  others  by  gam-  fore  him  in  that  behalf  touching 
bling  or  permitting  gambling  devices  the  nature  of  such  gambling  devices, 
to  be  available  to  people  who  can-  and,  if  such  magistrate  shall  deter- 
not  afford  to  gamble,  or  to  young  mine  that  the  same  are  used  or  kept 
people  who  might  acquire  the  desire  for  the  purpose  of  being  used  at  any 
for  gambling?  game  or  games  of  chance  described 
Gambling  is  unlawful  in  the  State  in  this  chapter,  it  shall  be  his  duty 
of  Utah,  and  the  persons  participat-  to  destroy  the  same."

16  RELIEF   SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— JANUARY,    1941 
The  statute  not  only  makes  it  il-  TT  is  argued  by  some  that  if  people 
legal,  but  makes  it  a  felony  to  own  or  have  the  money  and  wish  to  gam- 
operate  or  permit  to  be  operated  ble  or  spend  it  for  entertainment, 
gambling  devices  in  the  State  of  it  is  their  own  affair  and  the  business 
Utah.  It  also  provides  that  persons  of  no  one  else.  They  know,  or 
who  own  buildings  or  rent  buildings  should  know,  when  they  gamble 
are  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor  when  with  commercial  devices  or  in  com- 
they  permit  a  gambling  game  to  be  mercial  gambling  places  that  the 
played  upon  the  premises:  chances  are  greatly    against    them, 
103-25-2  —  ''Every  person  who  and  in  most  instances  they  will  lose 
knowingly  permits  any  of  the  games  their  money.  In  the  American  Mag- 
mentioned  in  the  preceding  section  azfne,  Volume  120,  page  102,  there 
to  be  played,  conducted  or  dealt  in  is  an  article  by  a  professional  gam- 
any  house  owned  or  rented  by  such  bier,  entitled  ''Some  Folks  are 
persons,  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  any  Lucky,"  written  by  J.  B.  Creswold. 
person  who  plays  at  or  against  any  In  part,  he  says:  "Nine  hundred 
of  said  prohibited  games,  is  guilty  ninety-nine  people  out  of  a  thou- 
of  a  misdemeanor."  sand  have  no  business  gambling  big 
One  of  our  greatest  difficulties  in  money.    The  Thousandth  is  the  per- 
enforcing  the  statutes  regarding  gam-  son  I  usually  get  at  my  table.  The 
bling  devices  is  that  the  devices  are  other  999  are  suckers  and  lose  more 
constructed  so  nearly  like  games  of  than  they  can  afford.    My  first  in- 
skill  or  like  those  for  the  sale  of  dication  is  to  figure  they  are  getting 
merchandise  that  they  are  classed  as  what  is  coming  to  them,  but  I  des- 
games  of  skill  or  vending  machines  pise  more  than  suckers  the  cheap 
and  are  hcensed    to    be    operated,  gambler  who  trims  them,  and  I  shall 
There  have  been  some  decisions  of  be  glad  if  I  can  do  anything  that  will 
our  Utah  Courts  which  make  clear  cut  into  his  profits." 
the  distinction.    In  the  case  of  Utah  Gambling    in    itself    is    serious 
State  Fair  Association  et  al  vs.  Green  enough,  but  the  development  of  the 
et  al,  the  Utah  Supreme  Court  said:  i^^a  within  a  child  that  he  can  get 
"But  games  of  cards  do  not  cease  something  for  little  or  nothing  is 
to  be  games  of  chance  because  they  wrong  In  many  instances  which  have 
n  f  .  £  1  n  1  1.V  1  come  before  the  uvenile  Court,  the 
call  tor  exercise  or  skill  by  the  player,  i-u  ii^i.  r  j/u 
1  r  1  IT  1  c  J  f  children  who  have  been  found  to  be 
nor  do  games  of  bilhards  cease  to  delinquent  by  reason  of  theft  have 
be  games  of  skill  because  at  times,  attempted  to  justify  themselves  with 
especially  in  the  case  of  tyros,  the  the  thought  that  they  could  "get  by 
result  is  determined  by  some  unfor-  with  it"  without  being  caught,  and  it 
seen  accident,  usually  called  'luck.'  appears  evident  that  this  attitude 
The  test  of  the  character  of  the  game  *  might  be  developed  from  the  gam- 
is  not  whether  it  contains  an  ele-  bling  spirit. 
ment  of  chance  or  an  element  of  In  the  days  when  slot  machines 
skill,  but  which  of  these  is  the  dom-  were  so  prevalent  in  our  state,  our 
inating  element  that  determines  the  attention  was  called  to  one  child 
result  of  the  game."  who  had  been  given  five  dollars  by

GAMBLING 
his  parents  to  purchase  books  and 
pay  his  student-body  fee,  etc.,  at 
school,  and  enroute  stopped  at  a 
drug  store.  The  girl  who  waited  on 
him  suggested  that  there  was  a  slot 
machine  in  the  basement  which  was 
about  ready  to  ''kick  in/'  and  the 
boy  changed  one  of  his  dollars  into 
nickles  and  proceeded  to  play  the 
slot  machine.  Out  of  the  entire 
five  dollars  played  into  the  machine, 
he  received  twenty  cents  back.  Af- 
ter spending  his  money,  and  realiz- 
ing what  he  had  done,  he  took  an 
ice  pick  which  he  found  in  the  base- 
ment and  smashed  the  glass  and  re- 
moved the  nickles  from  the  ma- 
chine. He  was  apprehended  by  the 
owner  of  the  store,  the  money  taken 
from  him,  and  he  was  turned  over 
to  peace  officers  for  handling.  In- 
stead of  bringing  the  boy  into  Court, 
a  complaint  was  filed  against  the 
owner  of  the  store  for  contributing 
to  the  delinquency  of  a  minor,  but  it 
appeared  that  before  the  case  was 
brought  to  trial,  the  mother,  signer 
of  the  complaint,  withdrew  the  com- 
plaint and  refused  to  testify,  stating 
that  the  matter  had  been  made  right 
with  her  and  that  she  had  received 
ten  dollars  from  the  manager  of  the 
store  to  settle  the  matter. 
TT  might  also  be  urged  that  we  can- 
not legislate  our  morals,  and  that 
no  matter  how  severe  our  legislation 
and  strict  the  enforcement  of  our 
laws,  we  still  cannot  overcome  the 
dangers  of  crime  and  delinquency 
without  teaching  and  practicing  cor- 
rect principles  in  the  home,  the 
school,  and  the  church.  These  in- 
stitutions play  a  very  important  part 
in  the  formation  of  character  of 
young  people.  From  them  should 
come  the  teaching,  the  training,  and 
17 
the  establishment  of  ideals  in  the 
minds  of  youth.  Those  who  are 
given  the  responsibility  of  teaching 
and  training  young  people  should 
be  equipped  with  a  knowledge  of 
materials  and  the  technique  of  build- 
ing just  the  same  as  should  the  me- 
chanic who  attempts  to  build  a 
building.  Above  all,  youth  should 
be  stimulated  with  a  desire  to  live 
up  to  lofty  and  noble  ideals. 
The  practice  of  lottery  and  gam- 
bling has  long  been  denounced  by. 
leaders  of  our  Church.     President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  said  in  the  Juvenile
