[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Life Is | Author: Gould]
I Life Gs Like a Pattern Anne S. W. Gould ie is like taking a journey, the scenery is always changing. We may have to go through the desert, but it doesn't always stay desert, and even in the desert there is some loveliness, if we are on the lookout for it.' Strange Land of the Chiricahuas Nell Murbarger ITH their lofty summits risW ing nearly 10,000 feet above sea level, the Chiricahua Mountains spring from the surrounding aridity like a moist and verdant island. Grown to ferns and flowers and tall evergreens, this unusual retreat in southeastern Arizona is a far different place than one ordinarily expects to find in a desert region only a few minutes drive from the Mexican border. Little changed physically since those rugged days of nearly a century ago, when these canyons served as a stronghold for the Apache war lords, Cochise and Geronlmo, the Chiricahuas are still largely inaccessible save by steep, dim trails, and sure-footed mountain horses. Fortunately for auto travelers, the one improved road that crosses the range gives entry to the most scenic portion of the entire mountain chain — an area that embraces so many unusual features that seventeen square miles of it were set aside by President Coolidge, in 1924, as Chiricahua National Monument. Whether a visitor's interest lies in botany, bird study, geology, photography, mountain climbing, or frontier history, this strange land has more to offer the vacationist than almost any other American area of comparable size. Regardless of its other attractions, however, its dominant feature must forever be its spectacular rock formations. Carved by time and weather into thousands of fantastic shapes, Page 180 these gigantic pillars rise like sentinels above the enveloping forest, serrating the ridge-tops, overshadowing the public campground, and flanking every mile of highway and hiking trail that winds through the Monument. To some of these sculptured forms have been given such descriptive names as Chinese Boy, Donald Duck, The Anvil, Baked Potato, Old Devil Face, Praying Padre, The Bishop, Thor's Hammer, The Old Maid, Kissing Rocks, Queen Victoria, Punch and Judy, Chinese Wall, and The Mushroom; but tens of thousands of other sculpturings are as yet unnamed. Of all the peculiar formations in Chiricahua National Monument, none possesses greater fascination than the scores of balanced rocks, the most spectacular one of which measures twenty-five feet in height and twenty feet broad, with a weight officially estimated at 625 tons! 'This gigantic boulder stands perched on a stem only four feet across at its point of contact, and the slightest earth tremor would be seemingly sufficient to send it crashing earthward. 'Two hundred yards and several hundred exclamations distant, stands Pinnacle Balanced Rock — twice as high as broad, but with a base little wider than a man's shoulders! These balanced boulders, like other formations in the Monument, are a result of erosive forces; and although no man can say how many hundreds of years have been re- STRANGE LAND OF THE CHIRICAHUAS Nell Murbarger DUCK-ON-A-ROCK IN CHIRICAHUA NATIONAL MONUMENT, ARIZONA quired for the carving of each rock, it is known that the weathering effected in the span of one human lifetime is scarcely discernible to the eye. Although non-hikers can gain an impressive view of the Monument from the auto road and the lookout station at Massai Point, only persons with the stamina to hike or tide horseback for a few miles are privileged to view the "Heart of Rocks" area where the more unusual formations are centered. Fourteen miles of wide, safe trails, gently-graded and well-maintained, offer matchless sightseeing — trips ranging from three to seven miles in length. Guide service is optional. OST of the other attractions offered by the Monument may be enjoyed without any particular need for exertion. Flower lovers 181 find themselves in a leafy wonderland inhabited by more than soo species of plants and eighty botanical families. Included in this assortment are fourteen species of ferns, seven varieties of oaks, and nine different conifers, the latter embracing such unusual types as Arizona cypress, _ alligator-barked juniper, and the Apache, Chiricahua, and Mexican pinon pine, all of which are of limited distribution in the United States. According to one botanical authority, the Chiricahuas likely contain a greater variety of plant life than is to be found in any other comparable area in the United States. The Monument also is especially tich in bird life, a few forms — due to long-established isolation — being unique to this region. The wild turkey, once plentiful here, is lately making a gallant comeback, and the 182 thrill of hearing these great birds gobbling in the trees on a frosty autumn morning is an experience never to be forgotten! Rarest joy the Monument can offer to an ornithologist is the possibility of seeing the coppery-tailed trogon, a foot-long bird with rainbow-hued plumage. Even the thick-billed parrot occasionally strays northward to the Chiricahuas from his traditional home in Mexico's forested highlands. I In the animal line, the Arizona white-tailed deer abounds throughout the Monument, and does and fawns often come to drink at a spring near the public campground. Tracks of bears and mountain lions are occasionally seen in the higher elevations, and even the jaguar and handsome Mexican ocelot have been glimpsed. Smaller animals, such as squirrels and chipmunks, are plentiful. Tent campers and trailerists are served by a clean, well-maintained campground, providing abundant shade, roomy spaces, good water, tables, outdoor fireplaces, showers, and a laundry room. Limited accommodations for non-campers are available at several nearby guest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ranches, where saddle horses and guides also may be obtained. Lying 120 miles east of Tucson, the Monument, from that point, is best reached via U. S. Highway 80, and State Routes 86 and 181; or north from Douglas (seventy miles ) over U. S. 666 and State Route 181. All these routes are paved and offer no steep grades of mountain driving. Just across the border from Douglas (70 miles south of the Monument) lies the Mexican city of Agua Prieta, Sonora, with its many interesting curio shops and quaint Old-World charm. American citizens, entering Mexico for one day only, need no passport or other permit, but non-citizens should discuss the matter with United States immigration authorities before crossing the line and so avoid any difficulty that might attend their re-entry into the United States. Further information concerning this fascinating Arizona vacation area, may be had by writing the Custodian, Chiricahua National Monument, Dos Cabezas, Arizona; or the Chamber of Commerce, at Tucson. Sirst Herald Linnie F. Robinson The old, old lady held the child Close to the pane where the rain beat down; And they stared at the rivulets running swift On the dark and sodden ground. Then, looking closer, they saw some green, Scarce more than a blade of grass; The babe smiled as at a bauble seen, But a miracle to the other had come to pass. She Preparation and Serving of Sood for Large Gatherings Frank D. Arnold Sanitarian R. S., Salt Lake City, Utah, Health Department have long been recognized as an important means of raising funds and promoting sociability. We, as Latter-day Saints, are frequently called upon to assist in the preparation and serving of dinners and other meals under a variety of circumstances. It may be a supper in the recreation hall, a picnic in the canyon, refreshments at a dance, or any one of a number of other events common within the activities of our Church.