[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nelson]
O. Nelson I heard today that the house on the hill is being torn down and carried away. Just as fast as I could, I walked to the place that was my home. The path to the house was overgrown with weeds; the grass was trying hard to cover the spots that were dry; and yet, around the edges, the daffodils were poking their golden heads through, as they had always done this time of the year. I looked to find a certain tree, but there was only a stump. Where were the limbs and branches, especially the one that had grown just for the purpose of holding a swing? I visualized the rope, with knot tied tightly, that held us when we went high into the air. I tried to find the pansy bed and the sweet-smelling violets. They used to be by the lilac bush—but that was withered and dry. I walked to the side door, just to see if on the porch there might be a tricycle, bicycle, or a little red wagon with a reading on the side, "Big Ben." In such a wagon we used to scoot down the hill, but it was not there. Through the glass in the window, I saw my mother setting the table. She was humming a tune. It would not be long now until Father would be home from his work. I remember his face always wore a smile and he had a pat on the shoulder for me and my brother — a kiss for my mother and sister Sue. The old-fashioned parlor looked the same, and there was the fireplace; the embers from the coals beckoned me to come and sit, as we used to do in the days of long ago. So many things, I imagined, were just the same—the horsehair sofa, with a chair on each side, the platform rocker where Mother rocked us and sang sweet lullabies. In the center of the room there was a marble-topped table, an album with pictures of relatives, and an old-fashioned hanging lamp that was the pride of us all, which shed such a mellow light when it was pulled down low. I could see the walls lined with enlarged pictures, the faces sober, never a smile; Grandfather so stern, Grandmother so frail and small. Just then there was a bang and a loud noise. The wreckers shouted, "Out of the way!" But I had to hurry upstairs to see the bedrooms. The largest room belonged to Father and Mother; the little room to the right was mine; across the hall my brother slept. 'That room was a joy to me as I used to sneak in to see the maps which hung on the wall. The books on the table and the round ball of the earth were all mysteries to me. The prettiest room was my sistet's; white Swiss curtains that blew so far with each gentle breeze that came when the windows were lifted high. Everything was dainty. I could see my sister sitting there at the dresser brushing her shining yellow hair. As I stood wondering, a workman shouted for me to get out of the way, to leave before the roof fell in. I had to hurry down the stairs, out the front door. They could tear the house down, carry it all away, but they could not take all these memories from me—for this dear old house and the place where it stood will always be "Home, Sweet Home" to me. Page 208 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable I Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. M