[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty | Author: Cannon]
[Sixty Years Ago 1-7Q Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Sixty    Ljears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  March  1,  and  March  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
THE  EXPONENT  IN  ENGLAND:  There  are  a  great  many  women  in  the 
Church  in  England,  both  old  and  young,  who  would  be  highly  delighted  and  benefited, 
could  they  have  the  opportunity  of  perusing  your  excellent  publication,  many,  yes  many, 
of  these  sisters  are  unable  to  subscribe,  and  are  literally  starving  for  faith  promoting  and 
encouraging  literature  suitable  to  their  sex  ...  .  Can  the  blessed,  yes  thiice  blessed 
sisters  in  Zion  not  do  something  ...  if  only  to  have  a  copy  of  the  Exponent  placed  on 
file  in  every  conference  house  in  the  missions  of  the  world  .  .  .  ? 
— H.  A.  Tuckett 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  IN  WAYNE  STAKE:  The  Relief  Society  of  Wayne  Stake 
held  Conference  Nov.  29th,  1895,  in  the  Loa  Relief  Society  Hall  ....  Counselor  Mary 
E.  Hanks  was  pleased  to  meet  with  the  sisters,  said:  "If  we  all  have  a  prayerful  heart, 
such  things  will  be  said  that  will  be  beneficial  to  all.  We  are  living  in  a  day  and  age 
when  there  are  great  improvements,  therefore  it  behooves  us  to  improve  ourselves  in 
every  way  possible,  prepare  ourselves  to  bring  forth  mighty  men  and  women.  It  is  a 
great  joy  when  mothers  see  their  sons  promoted  to  higher  priesthoods.  We  should  en- 
courage our  children  to  read  good  books  .  .  .  ." — Anna  Coleman,  Sec. 
FADED  FACES 
Oh!  The  mothers  of  men:  What  a  toilsome  life, 
Is  theirs  from  their  early  years. 
And  the  pitying  father  must  look  down, 
And  prepare  for  such  a  glorious  crown 
Where  is  found  no  sorrow  or  tears  .... 
The  countenance  then  will  shine  as  the  sun, 
Being  glorious  to  behold, 
As  robed  in  white  'round  the  throne  of  God, 
Having  passed  from  under  affliction's  rod 
No  more  to  grow  wrinkled  and  old  .... 
— Mary  A.  Freeze 
QUEEN  VICTORIA:  Queen  Victoria  has  67  living  descendants.  And  yet  they 
say  that  if  women  are  allowed  to  take  part  in  politics,  the  human  race  will  die  out! 
— Selected 
KINDERGARTEN  EDUCATION:  Fair  Utah  which  abounds  in  children  ought 
not  to  be  behind  in  progressive  work  in  this  direction  ....  Women  cannot  too  soon 
urge  upon  legislators  and  school  boards  the  quality  and  excellence  of  the  Kindergarten. 
Froebel  the  originator  of  this  system  in  his  trumpet-call  to  the  mothers  of  Germany  says, 
"Come  let  us  live  with  the  children";  and  as  every  mother  should  live  with  her  children, 
and  many  mothers  are  severely  puzzled  to  know  what  to  do  with  the  children  and  how 
best  to  train  and  manage  them,  the  mothers  are  the  ones  who  should  become  kinder- 
garten educators,  and  the  young  women  of  today  can  find  no  better  field  or  profession 
than  the  kindergarten  affords. 
— Editorial 
Page  170

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
OELLE  S.  SPAFFORD,  general 
president  of  Relief  Society,  has 
been  appointed  a  member  of  the 
National  Board  of  the  American 
Mothers  Committee,  the  organiza- 
tion which  selects  the  American 
Mother  of  the  Year.  The  objectives 
of  the  Committee  are:  "1.  To  de- 
velop and  strengthen  the  moral  and 
spiritual  fibre  of  the  American 
home;  2.  To  give  to  the  observance 
of  Mother's  Day  a  spiritual  quality 
which  highlights  the  standards  of 
ideal  Motherhood  and  recognizes 
the  important  role  of  the  Mother  in 
the  Home,  the  Community,  the 
Nation  and  the  World." 
\\70MEN  now  serving  in  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States 
are  equally  divided  between  Demo- 
crats and  Republicans,  eight  women 
representing  each  party.  Of  the 
total  number  of  women  who  have 
ever  served  in  Congress,  the  Demo- 
crats have  sent  thirty-six  and  the 
Republicans  twenty-four.  Twenty- 
one  women  succeeded  their  hus- 
bands, and  one  succeeded  her  fa- 
ther. The  other  thirty-eight  wom- 
en legislators  were  elected  "on 
their  own." 
ORINCESS  MARGARET  ROSE, 
of    Great    Britain,    was    named 
Woman  of  the  Year  bv  the  women 
editors  of  the  Associated  Press  news- 
papers of  America  because  she  re- 
nounced her  personal  happiness  (a 
marriage  with  Group  Captain  Peter 
Townsend)  in  favor  of  duty  to 
church,  state,  and  family.  Grace  Kel- 
ly placed  first  in  the  field  of  acting; 
Clare  Boothe  Luce  in  politics;  sev- 
enty-five-year-old Helen  Keller  in 
the  field  of  service;  Babe  Zaharias  in 
sports;  Anne  Morrow  Lindbergh  in 
writing  (Gift  horn  the  Sea);  Oveta 
Culp  Hobby  in  the  field  of  educa- 
tion; Bernice  Fitz-Gibbon  in  the 
field  of  advertising. 
OIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to:  Mrs.  Augusta 
Jacobson  Sward,  Provo,  Utah,  nine- 
ty-seven; Mrs.  Mary  E.  Giauque 
Hodge,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  nine- 
ty-five; Mrs.  Lorine  I.  Higbee, 
Toquerville,  Utah,  ninety-four;  Mrs. 
Lovisa  G.  Davis,  St.  Anthony,  Ida- 
ho, ninety-four;  Mrs.  Carrie  Jensen 
Thomas,  Logan,  Utah,  ninety-one; 
and  the  following  women  who  have 
reached  their  ninetieth  birthdays: 
Mrs.  Mary  Swensen,  Hyrum,  Utah; 
Mrs.  Brita  Lundgren,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah;  Mrs.  Nelsmine  (Min- 
nie) Weibel,  Los  Angeles,  Cali- 
fornia; Mrs.  Pamela  Thompson 
Smith,  Centerville,  Utah;  Miss 
Alice  Smith,  Logan,  Utah;  Mrs. 
Catherine  Warren  Bennett,  Poca- 
tello,  Idaho. 
Page  171

EDITORIAL 
VOL   43 
MARCH   1956 
NO.  3