[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Dunford]
[The Ice-Cream Pie Florence B. Dunford]

Mary and Richard exchanged glances. When a non-Church family from the East moved in next door, they had encouraged Dickie to be friendly with the little boy his age. Now they often wondered if Dickie's training was secure enough to withstand the influence Billy seemed to have on his thinking. 'Don't let Nancy hear you talk like that, Dickie," Mary warned. "Besides, you'll change your mind when you see Larry." Though she spoke confidently, Mary wondered. Dickie had been the baby so long. How would he react when another little boy becarie the center of attention? "is hard enough for me to concentrate when all that wailing gets started next door," Jay put in, "without having it on both sides of me." Oh, Jay, Mary thought, not you, too. I was so sure I could depend on my quiet, studious one, at least. "Nancy wrote that Larry is teethget that idea, ROOM FOR NANCY ing, so you can depend on plenty of sound effects,' Joy assured him. "Oh, I'm counting on it with the greatest of joy. If a few minor wails creep into my chemical formulas, I'm sure Mr. Chapman will understand." Mr. Chapman had taught enough years to understand almost anything, Mary knew. She wondered if he could help her understand the heavy sarcasm Jay considered a necessary form of speech. He had never used it before he started running around with the pre-engineering crowd. "Your mother and I put up with enough wailing from you, son," Richard told him. "I guess it won't hurt you to hear a little from Lar- 9? Ly. é €Y ochoo! Are you still at breakfast?" "Nancy!" Mary was on her feet and started toward the door when Nancy herself appeared with Larry on her arm. "Hi, family. You sure look good. Anything left to eat?" She was the same old Nancy, but oh, so thin and tired-looking behind the smile. Mary took the baby, while Susan and Joy hurried to set a place for the newcomer. "We rather looked for you last night,' Richard told his oldest daughter. "In fact, your mother worried a bit." "Tm sorry. As you can see by my early arrival, I wasn't too far away. But I just didn't have what it takes to drive the rest of the way last night. If it won't put you out too much, I'd like to stay and rest up a bit before going on." 153 "Before going on!" 'The entire family joined in the exclamation. Nancy looked around the table. "Didn't you understand? You surely didn't think I meant to come here, did you? But that would crowd Susan out of her room. And Mother is so busy." "Then where are you going?" Richard voiced the question on the tip of every tongue. "Down to Newton, to Lowell's folks. Mother, didn't I write you that Lowell thought I ought to go home to the folks?" "Yes, of course you did. I just can't get used to the idea that one of my children has two sets of folks. I took it for granted you meant to come here." Tears glistened in Nancy's eyes. "And you've shifted around and tried to make room for us! I know you have! Oh, you dear, darling people, you don't know how I love you!" "The shifting is all done, Nancy. You and Larry are welcome to stay here." But it was only Richard who spoke the nght words. Mary looked around at the faces of her children and in none could she find an endorsement of Richard's invitation. She was glad Nancy's sight was blurred by tears. "I know we are welcome, Dad, but going to Lowell's folks is really more practical. His father and mother are alone in that big house. There will be plenty of room so that Larry and I can keep out from underfoot. He's teething and he really gets cross sometimes. He would disturb everyone here." "But you are staying a few days, aren't you?" Susan asked as she 154 pushed back her chair. "I must be off to work or I'll be late, but I want to be sure you'll still be here when I get home tonight." "We'll be here," Nancy assured her. The next half hour was full of the usual bustle of getting the family off to work and school. Then there was Larry to bathe and put to bed for his morning nap. Mother and daughter worked together, happy in each other's company. But when the baby finally fell asleep, Marty insisted that Nancy just sit. "These are the only dishes I ever do myself and I'm used to doing them alone. Besides, you look all in, dear. ['d worry more about your helping than your help is worth." ANCY sank gratefully onto the cushions in the breakfast nook. "I am tired," she admitted. "Larry kept me awake most of the night." "I'm surprised that Lowell let you drive through with the baby. Four hundred miles! It's too much for a young girl." Nancy smiled. "This is once you can't blame Lowell, Mother. You will have to blame your pig-headed daughter. He didn't want me to drive home, but it was the only way I could have the car. Somehow, just having the car makes me feel less tied down." "At least you can get up here often. It's only forty miles. 'That will be a lot closer than you have been.". "That's what I thought, too, Mother. It's—it's the only thought that makes living with Lowell's folks bearable." "Nancy!" "IT don't mean that as a criticism RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 of his father and mother. 'They've always been very good to me, and they really want me to stay there. But, oh, Mother — just think! They've never had a baby in the house since Lowell himself was little. It's always so quiet there. Not a bit like home." "I understand." Mary turned abruptly to her dishes. If she took one more look at Nancy's. Tearbrimmed eyes she would do what she knew she must not do. She would take matters into her own hands regardless of how the other children felt. But did she have the right, since there really was a more convenient place for Nancy to stay? And besides, would Nancy herself remain when she found out how her brothers and sisters felt? No, it was better to leave well enough alone. But it hurt. "There's just one thing, Mother. You remember how I always said I'd never bring my children home for grandma to take care of. Well, I guess I'm going to have to take it back. I'd feel better about Larry, if you took him while I'm in the hospital" "Hospital!" "Don't look at me so frightened, Mother. I thought you might have guessed why we gave up our house. Lowell has worried ever since we were sure Larry would be having a little brother or sister while his daddy was on his mission. He gave me no rest until I promised to stay with the folks. At least, I will be fully occupied while he is away. I won't have time to miss him so much." By the time Nancy finished ROOM FOR NANCY speaking, Mary had recovered from her shock. She crossed the kitchen hurriedly to draw her eldest into her arms. Only then did Nancy break down, revealing by her heartbreaking sobs the fear and loneliness to which her words so bravely gave the lie. Mary held her daughter to her tightly and struggled with herself. Surely she had the right to keep Nancy here where she' belonged! Here, surrounded by her happy, noisy family she would have no fear and, perhaps, she would lose some of her loneliness. But would she want to stay? When she found out that her welcome was not wholehearted, how would she feel toward her brothers and sisters? N the end, Mary kept still. Yet, throughout the day, the desire to speak grew stronger as she saw how difficult it was for Nancy to handle fretful little Larry in her present condition. 'There were so many ways in which Mary knew she could ease Nancy's burden, without openly intruding on her independence. Would Lowell's mother see them and make use of them? Probably not. She hardly knew Nancy well enough to see past that self-sufficient exterior. During the afternoon Mary had a little time to herself. Larry was again sleeping fitfully and Nancy had finally dropped off to sleep, too. Mary used the time to try to reach a decision. Should she try to influence the children or not? To do so was against all her beliefs. She had taught so earnestly that a child who has been brought up under the 5) right ideals can and should be trusted to make his own decisions. Again and again she asked herself the same question: Where have I failed that my children cannot see Nancy's great need as clearly as I can? If they cannot see for themselves that Nancy and Larry are our responsibility, what could I say that would open their eyes? Silently she prayed that she might have the patience to force no unwilling decisions. "Asleep, Mother?" It was Jay at her door asking softly in order not to waken her if she were asleep. At her response, he came and _ sat awkwardly on the side of the bed. "Joy stayed for hockey practice, Mom, but we had a little talk at noon. We wondered if we weren't being selfish. It would mean a lot to Nancy to be home here with you. Don't you think she ought to stay here?" "Yes, I do, son. But what about your studying?" "I was just talking to hear myself, I guess. Lots of the fellows beef about noise when they want to study, but honestly, when I start to concentrate, the house could fall down and I'd never hear it." Mary smiled. "You certainly never hear me when I call you. But what about Joy? She has been so happy having a room to herself." "Well, I have to share my room with Dickie. 'This way we'll be on even terms again. She wants it that way, honestly, Mom." "Susan is the one most affected," Mary reminded him. "Quite apart from giving up her room, she wouldn't find it easy to watch Nancy with little Larry, knowing 156 that it will be another three years before she can think of having children of her own." "I know, but Joy and I wanted you to know how we feel. It just doesn't seem right for Nancy to give up Lowell for two years and not have her family try to take his place." "I'm glad you feel that way, son. We'll see." A whoop from downstairs brought Mary to her feet in a hurry. "Dickie will wake Larry and Nancy," she called back as she hurried out of the room. GURE enough, Larry was awake, but Nancy still slept the sleep of exhaustion. Mary quietly picked the baby up and went downstairs. Dickie lay on the floor watching television. "Here you are, Dickie," she said pleasantly, setting Larry on the floor beside him. "You woke him up, so you get to take care of him. I have to start dinner. Try to be quiet. Nancy is having a muchneeded nap." She almost relented at the dismayed look Dickie gave her, but her choice was between Jay who was undoubtedly studying by this time, and Dickie who never had any home work. She went to the kitchen and forced her attention to the task at hand. She felt much better since talking to Jay. Outside influences were at work on him, but they were not undermining the training he had received at home, as she had feared. But Susan's problem was different. Mary's heart had been wrung RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 over and over again as she was forced to stand by and watch Susan struggle with the loneliness and frustration of her long separation. Dinner was almost ready when she heard Richard and Susan come in. Richard joined Dickie and the baby in the living room, but Mary heard Susan go upstairs. "Mother." Mary turned. It was Susan — a frowning, worried Susan standing in the doorway. "Mother, would you very much mind if I asked Nancy to stay here and share a room with me?" "Mind?" No, Id be happy to have her. But you " "Oh, Mother, I'm so glad. I'm sure she will stay if you ask her, too. I've been worried sick all day. She looks so ill, but I kept thinking how much work it would mean for you. [ll help all I can, but you're the one who will have the real burden and you do so much for all of us already." "Having Nancy here would never seem like a burden." "Having Nancy here would be heaven for me, Mother. I get so lonely even with my nice family for moral support. And I know Nancy is going to feel the same way. It may be a comfort to her for us to be lonely together." "Mom! Mom!" Dickie's shrill cry brought everyone running. Richard sat on the davenport smiling at his youngest son and only grandchild on the floor in front of the forgotten television. "Mom! Nancy! Everybody, look! I'm teaching Larry how to walk. Come on, monster. Come _ to Uncle." ROOM FOR NANCY Carefully Dickie set the baby on his feet, then backed away a step to crouch with outstretched arms. Grinning happily, little — Larry reached out a pudgy hand. When it didn't quite reach far enough, he took a tentative step and promptly fell face forward into Dickie's arms. "See, Mom," Dickie cried, looking as always to Mother for approval. "Isn't he the smartest little monster ever?" "Dickie, you'd better watch out," Nancy spoke from behind Mary. "If you encourage him enough, you 157 might get stuck with a baby-sitting job." "I wouldn't mind. 'That old Billy can just hush his bragging now we have a little monster of our own," and Dickie snuggled the blond little head closer to him. As Mary turned back to the kitchen, she offered a little prayer of thanks. Hers was such a wonderful family. Surely, among them, they would be able to convince Nancy she belonged at home. When she realized how much Susan needed her, Nancy would stay. Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, has already been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by a pioneer story "Strength" published in the July 1955 issue. Her story "Room for Nancy" marks her first appearance as a winner in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. Altogether, Mrs. Larson has had six short stories, three plays, an article, and a poem published, most of them in national magazines. She is a graduate of Northwestern University, where she majored in the writing arts. The health of an only daughter sent the family West in 1948. In Fountain Green, Utah, mother and daughter were converted to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At present they hold membership in the Traverse City, Michigan, Branch, a part of the Great Lakes Mission. She writes: "The Relief Society Magazine means a great deal to me, especially since the Traverse City Branch is forty miles away from my home, and Relief Society meetings there are held at a time when I cannot attend. I hope that this will not always be true, for I do miss the meetings very much. However, I have found the Magazine a wonderful way to keep in touch with the organization, and I look forward eagerly to each issue." Cryptic Tokens Eva W. Wangsgaard I never turn a living garden clod But something from the past is turned as well. A broken dish, a bucket bail, can prod A host of questions on the tale they tell. Who was the woman who once called this home? What was her cottage like? — the one they razed In making room for mine. Within the loam She left me many tokens cryptic-phrased. I see her in the iron kettle turned From her old well, the stones that formed its brim, The goad her husband used when oxen churned The trail's fine dust. She lingers, young and slim, Beside the gate whose rusty hinge lies bent Upon my spade. So still! So eloquent! ite, Coram can isston Preston R. Nibley ISSIONARY work for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints began in Brazil in December 1927, when President Reinhold Stoof and Elder Waldo Stoddard of the South American Mission, with headquarters in Buenos Aires, journeyed northward to Brazil, "to investigate conditions for missionary work among the German colonies" in that country. The results of their investigation were favorable and, in September 1928, Elders William Heinz and Emil Schindler sailed from Buenos Aires to Joinville, Brazil, to labor among German-speaking people. Two months after their arrival they were holding "regular meetings, Sunday Schools and Bible classes." 'The first baptisms in Brazil took place on April 14, 1929, when Mrs. Bertha Sell and her children, Theodore, Alice, Siegfried, and Adele were baptized and confirmed at Joinville. A branch of the Church was organized in the same city on July 6, 1930. Asael T. Sorensen IGUASSU FALLS ON THE PARANA RIVER, BRAZIL Page 158 THE BRAZILIAN MISSION 159 Ewing Galloway RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL View from Pao Asucar (the Sugar Loaf), showing the city to the base of Corcovado Mountain. A mission was established in Brazil by the First Presidency in FebTuary 1935, and Elder Rulon Howells of Salt Lake City was chosen as the president. On his arrival he established headquarters in the city of Sao Paulo. Prior to that time no missionary work had been carried on among the native Brazilian people. President Howells presided until October 1938, when he was succeeded by John A. Bowers; President Bowers was succeeded im April 1942 by William W. Seegmiller; President Seegmiller was succeeded in May 1945 by Harold M. Rex; President Rex was succeeded in March 1949 by Rulon S. Howells; President Howells was succeeded in November 1953 by Asael 'I'. Sorensen, who presides at the present time. In November 1955 there were twenty-three branches of the Church in Brazil, with 1,103 members. Fifteen Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 143 members. Ida Lorene M. Sorensen is now president of the Brazilian Mission Relief Society.