[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Sackett]
[In Memoriam — Charlotte Owens Sackett]

Page 172 "Then," the speaker continued, "there is the great opportunity for service, in addition to all the formal instruction. Any member may be called upon to perform services for others by the president, or by members of the presidency. And here again," the sister leaned forward in her intensity, "the manner in which the leaders are chosen is unique with women's organizations. 'There is never any jockeying for position. The president is chosen by the governing Priesthood, and she chooses her counselors (vice presidents they would be called in other women's organizations ), with the approval of the Priesthood. 'The manner in which they are chosen marks them as being called of the Lord through his servants, and thus complete acceptance of their positions and the way they conduct the affairs of the Society is accorded by the membership. "Let me remind you," the sister continued, "of what the Prophet Joseph Smith said of the general presidency of Relief Society in Nauvoo. You may recall that Eliza R. Snow had been asked to draw up a constitution and a set of bylaws to give to the Prophet for his acceptance in setting up a women's organization. He, however, while commending the sisters on the excellence of the articles, said, "The EDITORIAL Lord has something better for you than a written constitution, and then he appointed the 17th of March as the time of the first meeting.' "During the organization proceedings, the Prophet told them what their Constitution would be: Let this presidency serve as a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon — your Constitution and law (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 15). 6sT{ROM that time this has been the proper order. Over the years, under the direction of the presiding Priesthood, decisions of the general presidency have formed the precedents under which the Society has progressed. 'True, being organized 'under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood,' the general presidency has a board appointed to share the work and assist in the planning, conducting, and carrying out of the general objectives, but the Constitution remains the presidency of the organization and their decisions, and minutes of the board are the precedents which constitute the by-laws of the organization. "Certainly," the speaker empha- 173 sized, "this pattern formed under inspiration by a Prophet of the Lord, has guided the Society to its present heights of being the greatest woman's organization in the world. In a spirit of humility and service, and in recognition of its divine beginnings and its continued growth under subsequent and __ present Church Priesthood guidance, it is inevitably pre-eminent. Nowhere else has a woman's organization had such a beginning nor such a history. And it will always be so," this devoted Relief Society member finished. "It will spread as the Church spreads and become greater and more powerful, so long as the grand key-words, given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, are followed: 'Said Jesus, Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" "Relief Society's true greatness rests upon the service it gives to the Church and to one's neighbor. And I just wish," concluded the speaker, "that the other half of the women of the Church realized the privileges and blessings which come to Relief Society members, and that all Church women would join Relief Society and assist in its God-given work." —M. C. S. + Semple Square Leone E. McCune Here in the busy city's heart High wall, enclosed, and set apart; Quiet, serene, in summer's beauty dressed, Silent and hushed in snows of winter blessed. Pipe organ music floats about the grounds; With words of prayer and praise the place resounds. And people come from far and near Its unique messages to hear. Gn Whomoniane—*Clnleiion Ononce Saale: HARLOTTE Owens Sackett, seventy-eight, died in Salt Lake City, Utah, January 24, 1956. A beloved Relief Society "Singing Mother," this devoted sister gave freely of her lovely talents and her thorough musical education in training and inspiring hundreds of Relief Society singers. In April 1932, the Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) chorus of selected voices from the various wards, and directed by Sister Sackett, furnished the music for Relief Society general conference. After this successful appearance, the chorus was sponsored by the general board, more singers were added, and Sister Sackett was appointed director of the combined choruses. This group furnished music for the general conference of the Church in April 1933, appearing under the name of "Singing Mothers" — a dear name — which has been greatly multiplied and has been given to ward and stake and mission Relief Society singers throughout the Church. The beautiful soprano voice of Sister Sackett will long be remembered, and the inspiration of her direction will be as a lasting heritage for the Singing Mothers in years to come.