[Vol43 | March 1956 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: How We | Author: Gardner]
How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home Helen S. Gardner [Address delivered at Logan Stake Quarterly Conference, Logan, Utah, September 4, 1955] E have two kinds of family \\y hours in our home. First, the impromptu kind, when Eldon suddenly finds that his meeting has unexpectedly been canceled and he will be home; and, second, the kind that is planned in advance. What excitement there is when Eldon comes in and says, "I'm going to be home tonight. Let's have a home evening!" The older girls hurry and wash up the dishes, while Donald, our son, makes a fire in the fireplace, and I stir up some punch and hunt for cookies in the basement. As we sit around the blazing fire, Eldon holds Mary Jane on his lap and reads aloud to us. Thus we have heard many chapters from the life histories of our ancestors. 'These were all sturdy pioneer folk, and we have learned to be more thankful for our blessings just through hearing of the hardships they went through. Then, sometimes, I read. Already, we have covered the Book of Mormon Stories for Children, and two books of Bible stories for children. When the littlest children become too tired to sit still any longer, we sing some songs, play a game or two, and enjoy punch and cookies. But the planned, anticipated, Page 160 family hours are much more fun. First, we must choose a night when Eldon will be home. This has become increasingly difficult since he became bishop, and the regularity of our meetings has been upset, but we choose our time and hold to it even though he may be called out. The children look forward with such enthusiasm to family night that I am never allowed to forget it. We have two sets of children in our family: the older group, ages eleven to fifteen, and the younger group, ages three to seven. When it is decided that a family hour will be held, they all come tumbling boisterously into the kitchen yelling, "I speak to be the refreshment committee"; "I want to be on the entertainment committee"; "I want the program." We unscramble our committees. Each member receives his assignment. Usually, an older one and a younger one work on a committee together. The refreshment committee prefers to work secretly in order to surprise us with something unusually delicious. 'The entertainment committee retires to a corner to plan the games. Much whispering goes on — sometimes for days — and occasionally I am consulted for advice. HOW WE CONDUCT THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME 161 HE program committee is, of course, the most important. Material is often gathered from The Children's Friend, The Improvement Era, or Sunday School lesson manuals. Betty has suggested that our next program should center around the theme of "'Reverence," as suggested in Primary. We must remember to have something which will be interesting to the older group of children and appealing to the younger ones, yet not too long and tiring. Very often each member of the family is asked to participate. Prayers must be assigned. More than once I have found Alice, age five, in a corner with Mary Jane, age three, trying to teach her a little prayer. Songs and music must be decided upon. Cynthia particularly loves to lead the singing, and when she's in charge, we are practically certain that we'll be singing her favorite song, "My Country, 'Tis of Thee." The musical talents of our family could be improved upon, but very often we have Patricia playing the violin while Donald plays a tune on his clarinet. And Betty can already play a melody on the piano. Then, we all love to sing. We sing Prmary and Sunday School songs for the younger group and Mutual fun songs for the older group, and usually end up with "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Of course we close with prayer. These are some of the things we have done just this summer in participating on our Family Hour, beginning with the youngest child. Mary Jane has repeated a finger play with actions that she learned in Sunday School, and has sung the song, "Jesus, Friend of Little Children," from Primary. The littlest children are very sincere and innocent in the way they tell stories, but are sometimes amusing to their parents. Alice said she had a story from the Bible she could tell. There was a man named Eliyah. He was a good man and was hiding away from the bad people in a cave. He was hungry, so he prayed to Heavenly Father. Pretty soon a big sea gull came flying over and dropped him a pancake. Cynthia said she could tell a story she heard in Sunday School. She told how a man named Nehi left Jerusalem and traveled in the wilderness. He lived in a tent. One morning he found a large brass ball in front of his tent. The word Liahona is still hard to remember, and we have to keep reminding her that the man's name was Lehi, not Nehi, but she never forgets that his wife was named Sariah. Betty has repeated the Articles of Faith as far as she has learned them in Primary. Donald has finished the Articles of Faith where Betty left off and has repeated the Boy Scout Oath and Laws and given us a good demonstration of flag signaling. Patricia has given a talk on faith and other short selections. I have illustrated the stories of Adam and Eve and Noah and the ark on my flannel board which I use for Primary, and Eldon has ended the program with a Scriptural reading or a Short talk on a religious subject. Then we have had the closing prayer. After the program, the refresh- 162 ment committee takes over. With our mouths watering, we sit politely while we are served. We have had some delicious concoctions, usually something which the children have thought of and prepared themselves with a little help. HEN the entertainment committee comes forth with the games. It is a family rule to have two games for the younger children and two for the older ones. On one occasion, I helped the committee make a Book of Mormon game which consisted of questions from The Book of Mormon stories we had read. Each question was written on a card. The person answering RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ~ the question could keep the card, and the one with the most cards in the end won the game. Once Donald and I made an Articles of Faith puzzle. We wrote the Articles of Faith in big letters on cardboard and cut them up in puzzles. We took turns fitting the puzzles together. We have noticed much growth and development through participation in our Family Hour, but best of all we are learning the gospel together and having fun doing it. Family Hour is helping to build testimonies in the lives of our children and thereby is strengthening ours. Op] Desert Yearnings Annie Atkin Tanner When summer suns in other lands torture me, I long for desert thunderstorms Which tear black clouds apart and let a prayed-for Rain, fall on red earth, That long has begged for saving streams From heaven. In the desert there are no trembling aspens Nor stately pines nor rugged junipers To grace this land I love, But there are thorny cactus plants, With blossoms pink as the glow of early morning, And deliciously smelling of fruits Grown only in the tropics. There are creamy, waxen bells, On sturdy stems of Yucca trees, Whose uae spiked leaves guard well Their perfumed loveliness. And there is copper-colored moonlight, The song of the cactus wren, And after rain, the pungent breath Of chaparral. Oh, there is peace and restful solitude, In this chimerical world of my desert, And I long for it with a nostalgic yearning, That years can never take away! The Ice-Cream Pie Florence B. Dunford am afraid I have always been [xe timid sort. "Do people like me?" seems always to be my question. And, "How much can I do for them?" And, "Do people really like you to do things for them?" 'Things like that. Matters of friendliness. A couple of years before, we had moved to this new neighborhood. At first everyone made an obvious effort to be friendly, to get acquainted. But then the Jennings on the east of us seemed to find out that Tim and I didn't really travel in their class after all. 'The neighbors directly across the street from us were a trifle old for me, I felt. Besides, she was a club woman and gone all day. And Dr. Walton was older even than his wife. By evening all he wanted was to settle down with I'V. That left the neighbors on the west of us; he traveled over several states. His wife went with him. On the east of the doctor, across the street, lived the Morrisons. Mrs. Morrison, though she was of our faith, had four growing daughters, and an aged, ailing father. Mrs. Morrison, I knew, didn't have much time for friendliness., The neighbor I really wanted to know was a Mrs. Carter who lived in a smaller house than ours, compact and neat, but not so elaborate, on the west of the old doctor and his wife. I just didn't know what had happened between Joan Carter and myself. She was my sort, I felt. She beamed friendliness. They'd bought their home a year or so later than we'd built ours, and they had two children. We'd been among the first in the subdivision of an old apple orchard that had been turned into a homesite; the prettiest one in our small western city, people often told me. "The Carters would like to get acquainted," 'Tim my husband told me several times there at first. "She seems an awfully nice sort. We ought to have them over." "We will," I said. But somehow the time never came. I had old friends I was still. Interested in. There was the work on the new yard; I wanted to keep the house shining. Our daughter was away at school, summer and winter. [ kept finding new interests. Gradually the Carters and we drifted into just a pleasant speaking acquaintance. 'This hurt me, for I wanted to be friendly. Why doesn't Joan borrow from me? I thought, the morning I saw her returning the steam iron to the neighbor at the extreme end of the block. What is it I've done or haven't done that makes her feel shy or unfriendly toward me? The time seemed to have passed when I could ask them over, casually, or for a more formal evening. Why doesn't she like me? I kept thinking. Why won't she just run in and out the way Id like to have her do — the way I see her do with Betty Jennings on the east, who, though I didn't care so much about her, rarely visited me either. Maybe it's Tim, I decided. PerPage 163 164 haps Tim wasn't friendly enough with the husbands. Yet it was Tim who first got acquainted with the Carters. And the Jennings on the east, and the Fentons on the west, and the old doctor and the Morrisons. No, I felt sure it wasn't Tim. Something was the matter with me. People just didn't like me. But why, why? Still I had my old friends. 'They at least understood me.