Bird On an Orchard Bough Christie Lund Coles Bird, what are you singing on this petaled bough, Blooming between the time of bud and fruit; What is your song, is it a paean of how The seed was planted and the tree took root; Of how the brown soil mothered it; and sun, And rain, like gentle fingers, urged it up Until this bright-leafed wonder was begun— An orchard, lifting skies a perfumed cup? Bird, what are you singing is it a song Of promises of beauty incarnate Within the smallest thing where hope is strong Lifting the spirit, long disconsolate? Is it to me you sing, of life and May, Upon this fragrant, iridescent day? Ge The Cover: Shoreline and Sandy Beach, Punta (Point) Ballena, Uruguay "Foto Mandello," submitted by Louise B. Parry Frontispiece: Almond Blossoms Near San Juan, California Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar The story "Inherit the Earth," by Ilene H. Kingsbury in the March 1958 issue of the Magazine is truly a masterpiece. 'The writing is beautifully sensitive, yet restrained, and the quiet strength of the pioneer woman is revealed with much artistry. Let us hear again from Mrs. Kingsbury. —Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah I observed with interest the beautiful netting in the November 1957 issue of the Magazine, and thought perhaps you might be interested to know how my grandmother, Nancy Shaffer Perry, did it. She did not have a shuttle or other equipment, so Grandpa whittled her out some large needles of wood. They had large eyes, and Grandma had a way of putting the thread in many times so that it formed a very long thread to work with without tying new threads all the time. Then she had her sticks, etc., and she did beautiful work. One thing she made was a bedspread, which my daughter really prizes. —Florence Thurston Ogden, Utah Each issue of The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration to me. I love the stories. 'Fifty Singing Aprils," in the February issue, by Mabel Law Atkinson, the second prize story, is beautifully written, with a great depth of love and tenderness to inspire all of us. I look forward for each Magazine to arrive and wish to thank everyone who makes it so beautiful and inspiring. —Mrs. Orlena Arnell St. Charles, Idaho I always enjoy the Magazine, especially the story edition (April). Of course, I gain most from the lessons, and, being a stake leader, they are vital to me. But for plain enjoyment I read the stories and poetry. —Sadie H. Greenhalgh Nephi, Utah Page 282 I don't know what I would do if my Relief Society Magazine arrived on a day when I couldn't take time off to read it. Fven the busiest days, I can't put it down until I have read it from cover to cover. My husband and I were pleasantly surprised to see the picture of Dr. Russell Nelson and his family and the lovely article written by his sweet wife Dantzel in the February issue. Dr. Nelson helped the Lord spare my life while in Boston, for which we are so extremely grateful. Because of this marvelous blessing I have been given the opportunity of being Relief Society president, and I gain so much from the wonderful companion, The Relief Society Magazine. —Grace S. Mortimer La Marque, Texas Although I am a man, I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine as much as my Relief Society sister does. I worked with Relief Societies in Missoula, Montana, about thirty years ago, also in Idaho in two different wards. May I say I have never worked with finer, cleaner, or sweeter ladies than those sisters were. I am past eighty-two years and have been a Church member since 1897. I am the oldest member in Missoula Ward. —Ariel G. Nielsen Missoula, Montana Just a line to express my appreciation for Mabel Law Atkinson's beautiful poem "Perfect Prelude" in the January 1958 issue of the Magazine. Her last thought: "T never knew the mellowed years could be the perfect prelude to eternity," is so wonderful and so true.... We appreciate not only the Magazine, but also the wonderful material given us for Relief Society work. The lessons are outstanding. Many thanks. I have had the privilege of serving in Relief Society more than forty-five years and feel it has been a splendid experience. —Elizabeth H. Welker Salt Lake City, Utah

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 45 MAY 1958 NO. 5 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES Mother's Influence in the Home ceeececcccccccecceccssssecscsesenseceeesessssecseeseeneee Mary R. Young 284 In Memoriam—Oscar Ammon Kirkham ooicieoeoccecccscsssccscscesoeeeseessssesessestsesesssseseeeeeecece. Antoine R. Ivins 286 Song for a Daughter 2 cecscscsscescsccssseecescceceseseeeeesesesesssesessseenseseceeescesesee. Aacomunsang llMabel Law Atkinson 287 The Prophet Joseph Smith's Tribute to His Mother o. Cccccccccccccccoccccsceseseooseseseccseeeceeeee eee eee 87 The Uruguayan Mission. CssscocsssssscecscsecsceccescecsssetersesseserscsssstasecesssesseceeecceseeeseeccccePreston R. Nibley 288 Contest Announcements—1958 oon.. Eeeeceeccececccecesesececeseceeesiessusotseesesveesssssssessssssvevesiitsseotitieteeeeeseeeeeeoeecec 0 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 0 u.0.. Cssescsssssesesssssesccseceececesaeeceseesepecececnesssosseneesecese: eee 290 Relief Society Short Story Contest 2 0 0 c. Ccccceccecscssecsccsesesseccevececoeeeseesesseseeestesatassenenesesssenessseeeeeseceon. 291 The Gift and the Desire 0 c.. EeisscsesssscseeccececcescsessensceccescececssacecaseesecoesssseesessccsssueeseecceAlice Morrey Bailey 292 Why Not Write a Story? On essscssscscecsnsssescsesscecscecscercsesesesesasssssecenssessseseesseeeesesHelen Hinckley Jones 296 All Out—Ail Ages—Polio Vaccination Roundup o0 c. C cccscsssecccescesccesseessosseseseeeseseeeeVirginia L. Blood 309 "... Young Men Shall See Visions' o ecseecceccsssssccsssssescsseseecceseneacsesasenseesessssseneesensansssesussecesssesssesusecoes310 FICTION Beppicwwemcl His Gimeeitis cette none cccccece ane esecetecec enenenonttecceececesececcenccsceceseneececossoeeceFlorence B. Dunford 301 nnn a ceccecceoeeenceenceveeesveccvecnencncsesssorcerencnesssceesesseeceuees, Frances C. Yost 314 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 50 oo. EccescsececccsscsscesscsoccececseesenesesssesesnecessssssessesenecececectseetecseseseOlive W. Burt 320 Finnerty ORR cy annonce crete ena crecce nn tnerennnneecceccececuceseccensoassceceesenenevecceneenesse-ceeeeecusererene-cee 282 SUMMEY, Y OCUR I onan cance camene ene ceenceee eee eneaeuvovecsavereenesanceceacenenevencuessenssesssererseasseuseessesassserereeeesesesese 304 MBOTIVG Ss SPP rena ccc cccccecencecceec cones cucceccsecescscccsececocserceeoeeoesenegRamona W. Cannon 305 Editorial: Making Right Choices 2.0.0.0 cssessssscecesseseseeccesssesesveescesesestsesaeesenessenesesMarianne C. Sharp 306 Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University Leadership Week oo..-cccccccsccscsesecoscseneceocssesseeeseeecce 308 Brigham Young University Southern California Leadership Week 309 Magazine Honor Roll for 1957 ooo cases a | SoMarianne C. Sharp 324 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.0 c: ccccscosssccsscssssecsesetsessessesesececeeseseee. Hulda Parker 333 Birthday Congratulations i. Ececccccssssceccceccceecesceeesecesees a i) ie 344 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Uruguayan Mission 0 ccc-cesccsscsssceecceseseoessssscssecscesesesecesneeoseesseeeLouise B. Parry 312 You Can Sew—ill. Fitting: 2.0 see cccesesesccssesecnsessevecereceracerececssnenencssosnenensecneenesJean Ridges Jennings 318 Mollie McClain Boel Enjoys Lifelong Hobbies 0 ccsssssssecseseceseceeeeeeseeeees eonee on acer eaneTETTEeoneTe POTTER 23 POETRY Bird on an Orchard Bough—Frontispiece o cssececocceccececeseesnsocsesesecsnenecsenecseneesChristie Lund Coles 281 AN access cceecastsenesennsonnnansncecoseerecececcecsceceeevavecsosacedseseseoccecsesseseccevescceesnusered! Grace Zenor Pratt 307 TN Ti nok nccnececceecccenceccorecceccescanmanenssnnsecererecneneensecesescesereoenone. Hannah C. Ashby 311 RECOMPENSE W scsseeesccsceesessecececcceecenceseccecencnssssecsnnensseeneeeseceacececsssssenseescececesesenneseeseesswwsenealllHazel M. Thomson 311 Precious Episode 2 ccsccececeecsssecssesoeecececesccesnenececesessseensessassessssesesssseseessessesstssesssenesseseeeDora Toone Brough 313 EXOT SMMC So cscst li venenn--nvceceesecnacanencnneesnsaenceasaseease-scnacesecesnanensnancencucesececesscrereneneisoscresanssccnsensecuenesGrace Ingles Frost 323 PICT SO VMBY 0. A. Cee sncsansnceveecnacececnncnsneeesssseveeeevevevaces-ovssneedilisneneecesecvessslldescocesececlillecseeroeeeeeseIris W. Schow 339 Gicemnaptim Wme nn. Moonen n-ne vee cvenrcenccncceencceceescceccececucesesecserectseversesscceeseescssnapneosenos. Pansye H. Powell 341 Mhothiers Letters 0.- cocc. S-cscseceseccoensanensveserveerersscerseseressdtinecesscsecasusadadbcecsesceoreeresEmma Ann Bigelow 342 De eee ee nnpCuSnnULIL lt nN IINIIDU UIIIININIISNNINIOINIIINSNUINIIIINELeslie Savage Clark 342 Cm nner cttw on cagbbinnren nee e-nerenenerecvanines-ceeniiinnreevteeesacecessianestBernice D. Savage 343 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Mother's Influence in the Home Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society EW subjects have received more attention by writers than that of mother and home. It always has been and always will be a subject of vital importance to the individual, the community, the nation, and the world. John A. Widtsoe said: "As the mothers are so the nation is likely to be. That is the responsibility of woman and the blessing to mankind." As we ponder over these words we realize the great responsibility and privilege of motherhood. This word has radiated a fragrance of love and devotion from the beginning of time. The beauty and power of a mother's love cannot be equaled in any other facet of life. Her love, devotion, kindness, her understanding and courage are found among all races and in all parts of the world. Her deep love for her children may even create within her breast a constant conflict. Love to her is not always joy and happiness. While she is expressing her kindness and understanding to her loved ones, at the same time she may be going through the pangs of pain and sorrow within her heart. Indeed, it has been truly said the bravest battles ever fought have not taken place on the battlefields of the world, but have courageously taken place in the hearts of the mothers of men, and those battles have gone on and on in every generation from the beginning of time. It is the desire and hope of almost every mother to live in such a way that "her children rise up and call Page 284 her blessed." But mothers are only human, after all, with weaknesses and imperfections; they are ever cognizant of their shortcomings and of mistakes that are made. However, Latter-day Saint mothers are particularly fortunate and blessed to have the enlightened understanding and knowledge of the principles of the gospel, with prophets to guide, direct, and impress upon them the great responsibility of maintaining homes according to the teachings of the Church. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Do mothers stop to realize how much their influence in the home affects the destiny of their children, not only in this life, but also in eternity? Unfortunately, some do not realize this truth or do not let first things come first; because we frequently hear remarks of this kind. "T am just a housewife and mother, I am tired of caring for children and doing housework all day. I would really like to do something worthwhile before I get any older." What profession or career could compare with successfully building and molding character and rearing a family in nghteousness? What could be more worthwhile? We have been commanded to do this, "and they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D & C 68:28). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in advising Latter-day Saint women on MOTHER'S INFLUENCE IN THE HOME their responsibilities as mothers and homemakers said:. May God... Give you the vision of the true homemaker, that you will be able to save by this course, not alone Zion, but the world. And that is your destiny... To save the world (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., The Relief Society Magazine, December 1949, page 798). HILDREN require more than food, clothing, shelter, and scholastic instruction to learn the essential qualities of character. In the home mother has the opportunity to start in infancy to teach by precept and example these qualities that are so essential to them in later life. It is in the home that personality characteristics are indelibly stamped. I will be eternally grateful to my mother for her teachings and influence for righteousness in our home, and for the lessons her life has taught me. She instilled into her five children a burning testimony of the gospel, a testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, and that obedience to the commandments and principles of the gospel would bring joy, happiness, and exaltation hereafter. Courage and determination in times of sorrow, stress, and strain; to push forward and overcome adversity have been some of her outstanding qualities and ones we could still emulate. Mother, left a widow before the birth of her last child, taught us by example to accept assignments or whatever we were asked to do and then go forward to accomplish them to the very best of our ability, stressing the necessity of effort and work. She was never afraid of work. She _ has always been loyal and devoted to the cause of truth — an inspiration to her children and grandchildren. 285 When reflecting on the home of my childhood, I cannot help but recall the influence my two grandmothers had on my early life. Both were noble pioneers, with faith and determination always to stand for right. 'They also taught spirituality, obedience, service, and love for one's neighbor. My grandmothers always had time to minister to the sick and help someone who was in need. Yes, I am truly grateful for my heritage and for the example that was set for me to follow. There is a definite challenge to mothers today. Problems, situations, and times are different from what they were in the days of our pioneers, however there will always remain certain basic principles and truths that should be taught in the home, such as honesty, truth, and chastity. Motherhood will continue to be a career of sacrifice, service, patience, understanding, and love throughout all ages. Love will continue to be of paramount importance in the home. You may have a palace and yet not have a home. You may live in just a log house and yet have a glorious home, if within those four walls there permeates the divine principle of love, love that draws a family together, love that calls for obedience, love and faith in God. Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. It would be well for us to remember the words of President David O. McKay, who advised the Relief Society sisters on one occasion: 'That increased attention be given and more intensified efforts put forth to maintain and preserve the digmity of motherhood" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1950, page 799). Gn WVlemoriam Oscar Ammon Kirkham JANUARY 22, 1880 - Marcu 10, 1958 Elder Antoine R. Ivins Of the First Council of the Seventy ARLY in the morning of March 10th of the current year, Oscar Ammon Kirkham gave up the problems of mortality and passed on to his eternal reward. His going closed a life of great activity and useful service to his Church and his fellow men. He used his varied talents always in the interest of people and in his thinking, people were reduced to individuals as varied as their number. Men and boys usually were the subjects of his interest and service and it can be said that they always benefited by contact with him. A portion of his life was devoted to the study and teaching of music, but the greater part was given over to the Boy Scout work with which he was associated from the time it became a part of the Mutual Improvement program. In this service he touched the lives of literally thousands of young men upon whom his influence was always helpful and beneficial. 'These young men comprised many differing nationalities, and no one could come nearer harmonizing their thinking than Oscar. I have had scouters in far off Hawai tell me that no one in the National Councils could do more to iron out difficulties than Oscar Kirkham. He did a wonderful work and merits the thanks of thousands of men who once were boys under his guidance. After a long and most active service as above set forth, Oscar was Page 286 PRESIDENT OSCAR A. KIRKHAM brought into the First Council of the Seventy under appointment of President Heber J. Grant. In this capacity he developed the same interest in the Seventies of the Church which he had displayed in dealing with the Scouts. His interest in the Seventies was in men rather than in organizations. Always he strove to develop a pride in the assignment which ordination as a Seventy gave a man. Always he strove to teach the individual responsibility of a Seventy, realizing that in_ the strength of the individuals is to be found the strength of the group. No man reaches his maximum development without the aid of a fine supporting wife and Oscar was no OSCAR AMMON KIRKHAM exception. In all his efforts his good wife stood at his side aiding and abetting him in his missions. He married Ida Murdock in the Salt Lake Temple on the 25th day 287 of May 1904, and from that union came four sons and four daughters all worthy of their ancestry. Theirs is the problem of carrying their father's name into the future. Song for a Daughter Mabel Law Atkinson HIS Mother's Day I would sing my song of love and gratitude for you, my daughter. Sweet is the song you have sung to me throughout the vears, not alone on my special day, but on each and every day as it came, not only when I had you at home with me, but in your abundant and fulfilling years since your marriage. Always your song of laughter and gaiety has echoed through the dark corridors I have walked and lifted my downcast eyes to see the light of hope shining in God's beautiful world. Your song of faith and courage has been my staff on which to Jean in my shadowed years, to keep me from sinking into the bitterness of despair. Always, through sunlight and shadows, you have beautified and blessed with your liltingly happy and glad refrains which only the mothers of daughters know. So from a brimming heart, 1 sing my song of love in praise of you; in gratitude for the priceless blessings that are mine because of you. Dear little grown-up girl, listen and hear in this recounting of your song to me, my song for you. Listen, and you will hear the joyous and reverent singing of my heart when you were cradled beneath it; its swelling melody at your first cry—the sweetest music heard. Hear the notes of exultance as you, a perfect little flower of humanity— the live doll for whom I had yearned since a small child—were placed in my waiting arms. Hear the tones of awe and wonder as I watched vou growing and made little dresses for you, and curled your hair; as I saw you taking part in Sunday School and Primary, in 'school programs, in high school and college activities and in Mutual. Listen and you will hear in my song the added overtones of beauty when you confided to me that the one man had told you of his love. That was when you whispered to me—it was just past midnight and you had wakencd me—''Mama, he holds me at my best." Listen, and clarion-clear will come in winging, mounting crescendos the reverence and gratitude, the humility and pride in my soul as I walked with you the temple aisles and saw the wonder on your face and received from your eyes the flash of understanding of all that lay ahead in your never-ending journey of happiness. Dear, precious girl of mine, can you hear the rapturous lyrics of the stars in my song because of the renewed fulfillment I receive each time vou place a new little grandchild in my arms? Now I watch you welcoming and caring for each new baby with a joy which passeth understanding, and you still find the time to go bevond your own walls to serve others of the Master's children, as you grow in sweetness and compassion. So listen, my daughter, on this Mother's Day, to my song of gratitude in praise of you. She Prophet Yoseph Smith s Sribute to lis Mlother Y mother is one of the noblest and the best of all women. May God grant to prolong her days and mine, that we may live to enjoy each other's socicty long, and to breathe the free air (D. H. C. V, page 126). The Uruguayan Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian N May 1947, the First Presidency announced that a new mission of the Church would be established in the country of Uruguay, South America, with Fredrick S. Williams of South Gate, California, as president. 'This was the third mission for President Williams in South America; he had served in the South American Mission from 1927 to 1929, and as President of the Argentine Mission from 1938 to 1942. After his release from the Argentine Mission, President Williams had spent several years in Uruguay as an employee of the United States Government. He was therefore well qualified to preside over the new mission. President Williams and family arrived in Montevideo during the latter part of August 1947. He soon purchased a mission home, where a meeting was held on September 7th, with nine people in attendance. The work of proselyting has continued since that time. After having served faithfully for almost four years, as the first president of the Uruguayan Mission, President Williams was released in July 1951, and was succeeded by Elder Lyman S. Shreeve. President Shreeve was presiding in January 1954, when the Uruguayan Mission was visited by Courtesy Oficina Nacional de Turismo del Uruguay Photograph submitted by Afton K. Shreeve A COUNTRY SCENE, LAVELLEJA, URUGUAY Page 288 THE URUGUYAN MISSION 289 vs te Geeta Oficina Nacional de Turismo del Uruguay Photograph submitted by Louise B. Parry VIEW OF PUNTA DEL ESTE, MALDONADO, URUGUAY President David O. McKay, who was making a tour of the South American missions. President McKay was accompanied by Mrs. McKay and their son Robert. On January 30, 1954, at Montevideo, President McKav laid the cornerstone "of the first complete Church edifice, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, built in South America." President Shreeve served as mission president until September 1955, when he was succeeded by Frank D. Parry. After a brief illness, Sister Louise B. Parry, wife of President Parry, died at Montevideo, on June; 1956. With the help of his daughter, Sharon Louise Parry, President Parry continued to preside over the mission until March 1958, when he was succeeded by Arthur M. Jensen. On December 31, 1957, there were 1,800 members of the Church in the Uruguayan Mission, located in thirty-two branches. Twenty-eight Relief Society organizations, with 578 members, were reported in December 1957. Lois Geniel Hansen jtomech presides over the Uruguayan Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Shoreline and Sandy Beach, Punta (Point) Ballena, Uruguay,"' was submitted by Louise B. Parry, former President of the Uruguayan Mission Relicf Society. See also "Recipes From Uruguay," by Sister Parry, page 312. Contest Announcements—1958 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1958 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Beginning this year the amounts of the prize awards for poetry have been increased from $25, $20, and $15, to $40, $30, and $20; and for stories, from $50, $40, and $30, to $75, $60, and $50. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue 1955, 1956, and 1957, and in the June issue for the preceding nine years. &liza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1958. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize $40 Second prize - $30 Third prize -..22..0- $20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 290 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5: No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poems. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. ELIZA R. SNOW POEM CONTEST " 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational a9 291 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the followinig points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1958. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Aoe Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1958 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1958. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize -.--------$75 Second prize ----$60 Third prize - --.---$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1959. Pmzewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one 292 literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest ls decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1958. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. She Gift and the Desire Alice Morrey Bailey INE poetry, like good music, speaks to the soul, and the reader is conscious only of its message, its singing, its color, or its mood. Only close analysis and examination reveal the mechanism used by the author to gain the results. If the attention of the reader is diverted to the author by untrue premise, inconsistent metaphor, or limping technique, the senses are jarred, sometimes indefinably, as by a false note in musical rendition. The perfect balance of talent and techniques is required to produce lasting and beloved poetic work. The talent for writing poetry is a special gift—something innaee, inborn, like the gift for music, which gives a deep appreciation, perhaps a more sensitive perception, a quick compassion. It may be a great capacity for emotion, an ability to see beauty or goodness or greatness. There can be something of the sage in the makeup and, for the sake of publication, a dash of intuition. Certainly there must be a sense of music and rhythm. There are recognizable steps to become a poet, from amateur to seasoned writer—the ripening of the personality, the mastering of the skills and learning necessary for sustained production. For the beginner, talent is enough for a time, as he feels his way about, strengthens his identity, before he comes in contact with other poets and their ways of self-expression. Young people without much knowledge or training quite often write with freshness of quality from a superabundance of emotion and appreciation. They are not familiar with styles, which can easily be copied, the THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE cliches which trap the well-read poet, nor the loved expressions of other poets which linger in the mind to make partial and unwitting plagiarists of the more experienced writers. But alas! Though we must remain vibrant and intense, and in love with the world about us, we cannot continue to be young and charmingly inexperienced. Progression by learning is necessary for a continued, consistent performance. If the will is not strong enough to hurdle the knowledge needed and master the craftsmanship of polishing, the gift will become recessive or degenerate to the ability to write only jingles with superficial meaning. HILE natural talent is necessary, some gifted people overemphasize its importance and think it is unnecessary to expose it to learning. To have "never taken a lesson in my life" in any of the arts should be an indictment, not a point of pride with the talented. Competition is not a matter of talent versus learning, but a matter of untrained talent versus trained talent, before which untrained talent and untalented learning are at equal disadvantage. Goal and direction should be determined early. What is the poet's desire? 'To have one or many published poems? 'To earn money by writing poetry? 'To be known in intellectual circles as a poet? To be remembered after death? All these are surely measures of success, rewards or penalties, according to the viewpoint, but they are not the end product. Should not the poet's aim be higher? To mirror the world in a droplet of water, to catch time in a prism of words, to hold dramatic 293 moment in eternal tableau, to preserve the blossomed bough against the season's turning, are challenges to his pen. If his words carry the power of motivation—to move men to love and honor their surroundings, to think more beautifully, to achieve more nobly, to know more truly—then he tastes the true measure of success. To OnE Wuo Wou tp Be "A Poet You must bear loneliness, silence, And the starless night, You must see darkness as The counterpart of light. You must hear the crunch of leaves And sequin-crusted snow, And ache with the awareness The anointed know. You must hear the whine of wind Through the barren tree And cry out in anguish And affinity. You must thirst forever At beauty's silver spring. You must fall beaten to the earth Then rise again and sing. —Christie Lund Coles* symphony orchestra, playing the masterworks, would not use a toy piano, tin trumpets, and cardboard drums. Nor would it appear before the public with only enthusiasm and gusto in place of tedious rehearsals; yet many poets, desiring to rush into print, limit themselves as ludicrously. A scientist, preparing a study, first reads the "literature," all things previously written on the subject. Poetry can be approached as a science, inasmuch as it can be a department of systematized knowledge. Good books on technique can not only hurry the poet toward maturity in his work, but can keep the interest at high pitch and pro- 294 gressive. He can develop the sureness of specific knowledge — the poetry terms by name and definition, the various rhythms and meters, accent, delayed accent, feminine and masculine endings, to name a few. He can become proficient with writing in form, suiting form to poem, the ballad, the lyric, the sonnet. He can exercise his ingenuity with rarer forms like the triolet and the cinquain as well as the quatrain and the couplet. Poetry forms can become as familiar to him as the limerick is to the field of advertising. It is not suggested that a poet confine himself to form, particularly any set form. In fact, the contraction of the "sonnet habit' is so prevalent as to have brought this beautiful and exacting form into disfavor with many writers and editors. Whitman made his own form, not from a lack of knowledge of the established ones, but from a fierce nationalism, a lusty desire for individualism, and a feeling that his was a new-world voice which should have cast off the old; but it was his mighty thinking and his heroic words which preserved his poetry for us. It is suggested, however, that learners need the discipline of writing in forms for facility and variety, for virtuosity and mastery. *K * * x Almost it was she made her mind a loom, And words, the glowing threads, wherewith she wove _ A tapestry of life. —Margery S. Stewart? WERDS are a poet's tools. With them he chisels his poems from the rough marble of his thoughts, or molds them from the vague clay of an idea. A good dictionary and a thesaurus should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 his much-used handbooks. Some bizarre effects are tried with word misuse in modern poetry; whatever the reason, it should not be from ignorance of the true meaning of the word, and never from incorrect pronunciation or spelling. He should properly apply diction, the choice and pronunciation of words, their use in proper order, so that he may avoid inversions and vagaries. 'The artistic writer uses understatement rather than overstatement, but employs words rich in overtones, which send the mind on journeyings. The rhyming dictionary is a good servant, but a poor master, and should be used with wisdom. Its consultation too early in writing a poem can intrigue the mind from its original intent by the presentation of interesting rhyme schemes. Prosaic tools are parts of artistry. X OK OK OK Above the painted chasm Rides the Silver Navajo; He wears a brace of silver spurs That strike an eerie glow. With eagle haste he rides To leap the wide abyss And none can find his trail In all the wilderness. (The river chants a red refrain, Driven by the flood and rain.) —Vesta P. Crawford? Imagery and metaphor are the poet's brushes, nuance, overtones, undertones, diction, his full range of colors. With them he paints with telling strokes, appealing to the senses and emotions so vividly that the swell and pound of the sea, the desert's coyote wail, the mystic canyon's red become a part of the readers experience; his first visits to them are only confirmations of what he already has known and felt. Rhythm, meter, letters, and syl- THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE lables are the tones of the poet's singing. Milton used the sibilant "s" to denote the presence of the on Many an unwitting poet has filled his spring poems with hisses. Poe used the repeated long vowel tones to create mood in "The Raven,' a poem so phonetic that even children recite it without regard to meaning, just for the joy of the sound. All poetry should be written for the ear. Many a poem pleasing to the eye or the mind sounds strident or stilted when read aloud. For this reason Whitman strode the beaches where he could be alone, reciting his long lines into the wind. It is suggested that all techniques be learned by theory and _ practice, then relegated to the subconscious in the category of tools, and not, as some artists do nowadays, let the tools, color, design, form, become the painting, used as the end product. With them in the background, the trained mind is ready for the free flow of ideas, the natural speech thythms, and can draw forth lyrics without interference. All knowledge hinted at here, and much more, is available to the determined craftsman. Books are readily catalogued to the fingertips of 295 librarians and generously loaned; even by mail, magazines are published with specific help and suggested markets; universities offer many courses in poetry appreciation and creative writing; writing conferences bring personal contact with editors and the renowned in the field; competitions whet the skill. The desire and the obligation of the gifted can afford to pass by none of these. With the universe full of subject matter, the genius of the poet is limited only by his own capacity and his own will, and need not stop at even Shakespearian performance. There are heroes in the world today just as there were in the times of Homer, and giants to portray as in the days of the ancient Greek dramatists, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. No part of the world's history is more significant than now. The poetry of the masters has been preserved for our reading from farther back in history than has been any other form of writing. 'Those who have gone before are measures only of what man has done, not of what he is capable of doing, providing he has the gift and the desire to use it well. PorMs QUOTED 1. Cores, Curist1E Lunn: Star, page 68. 2. SrewarT, Marcery S:.: page 175. 3. Crawrorp, Vesta P.: "A Novelist I Once Knew," "The Silver Navajo," "To One Who Would Be a Poet," from Of Stone and from Utah Sings, II, from Of Stone and Star, page 75. REFERENCES Brackmurr, R. P.: Form and Value in Modern Poetry, Doubleday Anchor Books, 575 Madison Avenue, New York City 22, New York, $1.25. Foucuaux, Mape ine: First Aid for Limping Verse, Camas Press, P. O. Box 3857, North Hollyw ood, California, 75¢. Hatton, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Hitiyer, Ropert: First Principles of Verse, Writer's Digest, $2.00. Why Not Vite a Story? Helen Hinckley Jones OU want to write a short story. Well, why not? Go ahead and write it. Don't read a book on how to write it; don't go to a lecture and note down a dozen rules; don't even read this article until after you have written it. That is, unless you are able to put these suggestions in the back of your mind and forget them. I've seen too many writers get paralysis through analysis. Worrying too much about the how of writing keeps you from living in the what. Perhaps you have the story already in your mind and heart. A story needs to live with you in both these regions, in order to be a really good story. Maybe you have carried it with you for years. Maybe it occurred full bloom to you last night. But, if you don't have a story, you can still create one. Notice the word is create and not contrive. Are you old enough to remember how the balky pump used to be primed? You can prime your mind, too, and sometimes by priming you get a surprising flow of good story ideas. Here are a few pump primers. See if you can recall—through your emotions, not through your mind — some moment in your own life that had a powerful emotional impact upon you. Did you ever feel really lighthearted, really brokenhearted, really buoyed up? If you have felt these emotions, or a hundred others, see if you can coax the same reaction back into your physical body. See if you can feel again. This is one ability that is shared by most creative people. If you can, Page 296 then the situations in which you felt this way will occur to you and you will have an idea or incident out of which to make a story. You may not be able to do this. If not, here is a purely mental primer. Think of some person whose life has touched yours. You are not going to tell his story. That would be biography. You think of this character until you can lift him out of his time and place. You know his strength and his weakness. Now you say, "What if?" You put this person into many many situations and try to imagine how he would react to these situations. You will probably catch on to a story. Very frequently I use my father in my books and stories. I knew him so well. You see I knew him almost as well as I know myself, because we were much alike. If I need to get really inside the character of a man, I give him the same combination of material and spiritual qualities which I know so well. In my novel, The Mountains Are Muine, my Amos Farnsworth has my father's wisdom and patience and reliance on God. Still another primer is to think about universal truths in which you teally believe. You can start with Poor Richard's Almanac, or you can start with Proverbs in the Bible. What do you deeply believe? Now you create a character who does not believe this thing and allow her to have the experiences which will bring her to the point where she will agree with you. Don't try to create a story in a day. Figure on doing a great deal WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Of "brooding" on your idea. Let the idea mature and ripen and take form before you try to put it down on paper. I know that many good stories have been written in the fire of a moment's inspiration. I know even more that haven't. A famous short story writer recently said that one of her stories took her twentytwo years before an_ incident touched the whole idea off and made it into a story. But maybe you had better not wait twenty-two years, if you plan to enter this year's Relief Society Short Story Contest! AN* WAY, now you have a story to tell and your problem is to tell it. My advice is to get where you can enter the mood of the story. One author who writes graphic stories of the South Seas has one corner of a room with books about the islands on low shelves, a map of the area on the wall beside him. He studies the map and the pictures until he "goes under," as one might go under an anesthetic. Then he writes. The important thing is to write as fast as you can and as freely as you can. I try to remove my conscious mind from the whole operation and tap a deeper flow of creative energy. If I stop to worry about vocabulary or sentence structure, I'm lost. The day is lost. 'The story is lost. If you can do the story at one sitting, so much the better. I wrote while my girls were babies, so I know that that can't always be done. If you can't do the whole story at once, each time you take up your work, type the last page or so to get back into the flow. Now your story is finished. You don't know whether it is good or terrible at this point. Some writers always feel that the story just rolled 297 out of the typewriter is a masterpiece; some always feel that it must be nothing at all. Now put the story away for a few hours or a few days. This cooling off period is absolutely necessary. Don't neglect it. After this cooling off period, pick it up and read it for pleasure. Having read the story for enjoyment, you are ready for the hardest job of all: the revision. It is time to ask your story four questions. 1. Whose story is this? Do we feel strongly about the central character? 2. What do we want for the hero or the heroine? 3. What keeps us worried throughout the story? Is there a point at which we almost despair? 4. What dramatic event gives the character the thing we want her to have? These questions may seem elementary to you, but believe me, they are the test of a well-formed story. In asking them, we are excluding only one type of story—the epiphany or revelation. In this story the average reader sees only a character sketch or a mood piece. Actually, the writer has tried to open for the reader a long view into an otherwise dark world. 'These stories are difficult to read and difficult to write, so we won't bother with them nght now. We want to tell a story that the people whom we know will read with more than pleasure. We want to communicate to our own peers, so give close attention to the answers your story gives to each of the following questions: 1. Whose story is this? Why, that's easy, you say. But it isn't. Frequently, other characters get into the way of a clean, pure story line. The story editor of four excellent 298 TV shows told me that his staff gets stories all the time in which they can't decide which role should be given to the "name star." Was the woman the star? The man? The heavy? A story like this is either rejected or rewritten. Keep in mind that the point-of-view character doesn't always own the story. We may see through the eyes of the child the storv of the mother or of the big sister or the teacher; through the eyes of the mother, the story of the teenager suffering in the process of growing up. GENERAL rule—and rules have all sorts of variations—is that the owner of the story is the person who brings about the desired end. If the story belongs to the evil character something he does must bring his destruction. Now that vou have a finished story before you, you can see whether or not the central ia solves her own problem.. Frequently new writers get all tied up with the second question: What do we want for the hero or the heroine? That is because thev figure that the reader should agree with the central character about what the goal should be. This is sometimes true, but often it isn't. A hero may want revenge, and what we want for him is the ability to forgive. The heroine may want to marry a young scientist new in her town who has a different religious background; what we want for her lS marriage with the clean-faced young student who shares her background. Once I invented a_ short-storv formula which I secretly thought might revolutionize story telling as did O'Henry's. I called it the socia] justice formula. In my story a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 lovable character was introduced, and the reader was encouraged to expect something good for him. In the end this deserving man didn't get what we wanted him to have— and he, himself, wanted — because of social injustice. In one story a tired little woman had given her life to supervising the ladies' room in a large department store. I knew such a lady, diminutive, bird-like, still with her heavy Cockney accemi, he aa grew out of the "what if.! ' train of thought. Anyway, the aa thought as the story progressed that the woman's boss was retiring her to a beautiful little apartment — sort of in gratitude for her faithful service. The reader discovered in the last line that the little woman was merely being given an advance peek at a newly decorated store powder room, I must have written almost forty stories on this formula, and I got them back from all the best places, sometimes with encouraging notes on the characterization. "Please try us again." "Your next story may be more in line with our editorial policy' 2 At last one editor was kind enough to be cruel. He wrote a note: "Society didn't cheat that woman. You did." HE reader should want something definite for the central character from a very early point in the story. Sometimes a storv breaks in two because the author changes the want. Or a want is fulfilled and another one is introduced. Ask your storv if the reader knows what to want for the central character by the time she has finished the first page. Ask vour story if that want is fulfilled in the last paragraph. If you can answer both of these ques- WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Tions with an absolute yes, you have a well-defined story line. Let's check on a story that fails to answer yes to these questions. You start with a lovable young woman. You want her to marry the right man. She does. You want her to have a baby. She does. You want her to move to the country. She does. This story is like a string of sausages. You really haven't a story here no matter how well you tell it. Suppose, instead, that you start with a young woman who feels a deep hunger for something that she has never known. But the reader is more perceptive than this girl; the reader knows what she wants. She needs to get away from the pressures of city life and find peace in country tranquility. At the very opening of the story the reader wants this, and can't see why the girl doesn't see it, too. Then the right husband, the birth of the baby, are both moves toward what the reader wants for her—the relaxed life and peace of the country. 3. The things that keep a reader in suspense throughout a story differ so much with different stories that you may have to be your own judge as to whether the reader will be worried or not. But the reader wants to be worried, and he'll be disappointed if he isn't. More of my friends and students get their stories back marked predictable than for any other reason. Now look, you say, if the reader knows right at first just what she wants for this central character and knows that by the rules of story telling she'll have to get it, then isn't every story predictable? 'The answer is that if the story is considered as a mental puzzle it might be. However, if the story is well 299 written, and the obstacles and hurdles that are placed in the character's way are convincing, emotionally the reader will accept the story and worry. 'These obstacles shouldn't be contrived. 'They should grow out of the weakness of the character, the strength of her opponents, the influence of the environment. 'They must not be just made up. T is lucky for you that you have recently read Hamlet. Check the play again for the elements that kept you worried. Of course, since Hamlet is a tragedy, you did not get what you wanted for him, in a way. But you got what you felt deeply was the only thing that he could get, being the man that he was. If your story is all sweetness and light and flows along like a quiet stream, it may have charm, but it doesn't have drama, and it doesn't have suspense. I spoke earlier of the dark moment. 'That is the moment when the reader is almost sure that she is not going to get what she wants for the central character. Let me remind you that the character may be getting what he wants; he may be riding blindly toward the thing he wants and the reader be in agony because the hero is making such a great mistake. Recently I was reading of a young boy who wanted more than anything else to belong even though belonging meant joining a group of young criminals. I was gripped by the story because | watched him tentatively make overtures to this evil gang. He was about to find approval from the gang's leader, Rick, but he had to "take the test'—that is, do some criminal thing. I was so afraid that he wouldn't turn back in time! 300 N the other hand, if the reader wants the thing for the character that she wants for herself, the dark moment comes when she gives up hope and almost decides not to try further. Look over your story for the elements of suspense. Remember that they are as important in the quiet story of the inner life of a middleaged woman as they are in the physical life of a teenage boy. Something that I do very frequently myself and suggest that my students do, is to read published stories and test them in this same objective way. 4. Now for the dramatic event that brings about the desired end, whether it be a realization, a change of attitude, or a goal achieved. Don't use a fire, a flood, a dying child, an accident, unless this thing is a real part of your story from the very first. Your character must solve his own problem. See? Some woman who reads your story will involve herself in it. She will actually be your main character. The reason? She has the same problem. Unconsciously she will expect the solution in the story to be a possible solution for her. She is cheated if some disaster solves the problem. How can she possibly expect the same coincidence to happen to her life? Probably the weakest crutch that writers use is the parallel case. Margie sees what Mamie did or did RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 not do and "comes to realize." Perhaps you won't recognize the parallel case if you have used it. It can appear in many guises. Suppose I am a young housewife chafing because I am acquiring nice things for my house very slowly. I am envious of the carpets in my neighbor's house. One day I overhear a quarrel about installment payments between my neighbor and her husband and I realize that it is better to wait than to buy when one hasn't the money. That is a parallel case solution that is disguised by having the facts a little different. Do you see what I mean? Read several stories and see if this weakness is apparent. Remember the X scene is the climax and the story should end with drama. I realize that this advice is very packed! Why don't four or five of you who are interested in writing, or even in just reading, get together and read and discuss these suggestions. Then put them away in the back of your mind and write your story. But as you write don't think of the four questions. If you do you may freeze right at your desk. You will have paralysis by analysis. After the story is cold put it before you, ask it the questions, and make it talk back. If the story has failed in any way you can rethink it and rewrite it. It is most important that we attempt revision with clear vision. References Elwood, Maren: Characters Make Your Story, $3.50. Hamilton, Anne: How to Revise Your Own Stories, $1.50. Mirrieless, Edith M.: Story Writing, $3.00. Polti, Georges: Dramatic Situations, $2.00. These books may be ordered postpaid from Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Papa and His Grapes Florence B. Dunford N ordinary occasions Celia () was glad to see her Papa, but not today. Jamie, her best beau, was coming to dinner. "Oh, Mama, why can't Papa just stay downtown this one evening?" she mourned now. Celia was nineteen, but still of an age that looks askance at plain-spoken, plaindoing fathers. Jamie, of course, was anything but plain. "He'll be all night, really he will," Celia's mother comforted her. She was rather red-faced herself, bending over, polishing the French Provincial furniture in their oldfashioned house with its high ceilings and square rooms. Celia's mother, when let alone, was a rather placid, cheerful, comfortable person, a trifle overweight, her gray eyes kind, really the motherly type. "Mother, you think the turkey will be done?" Celia worried, going toward the kitchen. "Oh, isn't this kitchen old-fashioned!" she cried, her voice desperate. Her mother, weary now, trudged in behind her. "Well, anyway, you're not." Celia was frowning over an etiquette book. 'Mother, it says here " Then her eye caught the big paper sack on the white tile counter. "Oh, Mother!" she wailed. "Papa and his grapes!" For an instant her mother seemed about to rush forward, too. 'Then she swayed back on her heels. "Oh, Celia! I thought the house was afire. Why can't you just accept the homely things your father does? After all, he's lived in our small comfortable town for all his forty years. And he really likes grapes.' "Well, I don't like seeing a big paper bag cluttering up the counter. 'There's never any room in our tiny ice box. If I put them in a bowl, the fruit flies gather. "Oh, Mother," she wept, "can't you make Papa be formal this one night? Jamie's a city-bred man! His folks have had the same apartment on the crest of one of San Francisco's hills all his life." While Celia stuffed the bag of grapes inside a lower cupboard next to the tall, old-fashioned gas range, Celia's mother tried to reassure her. '"Let's see now, you want Papa at one end of the dining-room table and me at the other end. You and Jamie across from each other. But your father always likes me to watch his plate," she went on. "He hates having to ask for things to be passed." "Well Gelaa, saidy "Icll serve from the kitchen. Ill remove each course and bring in the next one. "And please, Mama..." her voice faltered, "please, Mama, don't let on that we don't eat that way all the time! Why, Jamie's mother has a maid! A real maid! Imagine what Jamie'd think if he saw the way we always eat family-style!" By now Celia had even her mother puzzled. "But we are a family." She lifted her chin a bit stubbornly. "Why shouldn't we eat familystyle?" "Because..." Celia snatched up Page 30) 302 the etiquette book again. "Because, it says here." She broke off, "Oh, what's the use? _I may as well give up. I'll never get Jamie. All those months at school simply wasted!" HE moment Celia heard her Papa's old black sedan chugging up the driveway toward the one-car garage, Celia, with a last half-pleading, half-warning look for her mother, hurried upstairs. Going back and forth between her bedroom and the bath, she heard her mother and father talking in now low, now louder, tones. "Bless her,' Celia murmured, grateful tears coming into her eyes. Because Mother was really telling Papa about his old-fashioned ways, the necessity of making the sort of impression Celia wanted on_ her hoped-for fiance. And, as usual, when Mother really meant business, Papa was listening. 'Though even now he was breaking in, grumbling about dinner being served at the unheard of hour of eight o'clock. "My father never ate supper after six in his life," he fumed. Celia's mother succeeded in calming him. "It's Celia's future that's at stake. She's nineteen. At that age you thought you knew what was best for you, too." Celia's mother had been so successful that, at a quarter of eight, just as the old-fashioned buzzer on the front door sang through the house, announcing Jamie, her father came from her parents' room downstairs, dressed in his tuxedo. As Celia flew down the stairs, her blue chiffon dress spreading fan-like around her, her dark-gold hair drawn back into a lady-like chignon, her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 grateful glance even noted his black bow tie, and cracked, but polished patent leather shoes. HERE in the small entrance-way with its fanlight, the rosepatterned paper on the walls, the friendly smell of turkey coming from the kitchen, Celia thought for one breathless instant that Jamie was going to kiss her. But tonight was different from times at college. This was Jamie's formal visit to meet her parents, to decide. Celia was so in love that she was past minding that her own decision had been made long ago, and_ that Jamie might know it. Dark-haired Jamie gave her his hat. Men, it seemed, still wore hats in San Francisco. San Francisco, Celia thought, with another catch in her throat, was perhaps one of the few formal cities left in the United States. Certainly in Callifornia. Celia's parents dutifully came into the living room, "parlor," Papa called it. "Jamie, I'd like you to meet my parents," Celia said, her voice a little high and shaky. "Mother, Papa, this is James Thornton." Papa started to rock back and forth on his toes, giving Jamie the once-over as he did in court. But, just in time, Celia's mother's hand touched his arm, reminding him that this time he was the judged. S far as Celia could determine, neither her father nor her mother behaved in any way but as quiet, modern, up-to-date parents, in their quiet, modern, up-to-date home. But there were times when Celia herself was a bit off balance. PAPA AND HIS GRAPES She wasn't used to bringing in, or taking away. Once, Papa got a bit impatient at having to ask for his second helping of turkey. Once, for some unknown reason, Jamie choked, really over nothing. But then he apologized at once, gulped from his goblet of water. And the quiet, rather dull dinner went on. Celia herself felt worn out when she had cleared the dessett plates and brought in the milkwhite glass finger bowls. But even at this unusual oceurrence, Celia could not detect any questioning in either of her parent's faces or manner The dinner and the beginning of the evening, she felt, had really gone off very well. Later, perhaps, Jamie would ask if she'd like to go to a movie or dance. Celia was unprepared when, rising from the sofa with a rather cold, faraway look in his dark, discerning eyes, Jamie asked if he could use the telephone. "I hate rushing off like this," he apologized, "but I'm due in San Francisco in the morning." Jamie was just through law school and mentioned something about a deposition. To make matters worse, Celia heard him discussing the possibility of changing his ticket. And then she knew, with a soul-sickening certainty, that for all her trouble, she had lost him. Celia's father and mother knew it, too. Celia saw the _ pitying glances they gave her, the look that passed between them. And then she simply couldn't... She couldn't bear the pretense a moment longer. Turning, she fled up the stairs. 303 ig was quite a while before Celia felt she could face her parents again. Jamie, of course, would be long gone. It was ungracious for her to have let him go without saying boodbye, but Celia was grateful to her parents for not calling her downstairs before he left. She took off the blue dress, scrubbed her face clean of make-up, unpinned her hair and scooped it into a pony tail behind. Now, clad in a clean but faded cotton dress, with white nylon flats on her feet, at least she felt herself. Neither her father nor her mother was in the living room with the television. Crossing through the dining room, she saw that the white linen cloth was still on the table. And so were the finger bowls. From the kitchen came voices. Straightening her shoulders, readying herself for her parents' sympathy, Celia pushed open the swinging door. The three people in the kitchen did not notice her entrance. Her mother was at the old-fashioned sink, washing dishes. Her father, minus his tuxedo jacket, was rummaging in the icebox. And Jamie— it was Jamie! And minus his coat, too, with one of Celia's faded old front aprons tied around his middle, a big white dish towel slung across one shoulder, was lounging against the high tile counter, his back toward her. '"Where're my grapes, Hattie?" Celia's father demanded. "Where'd you hide them this time?" Celia's mother turned part way around. "In the lower cabinet there, right beside you," she told him. (Continued on page 343) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WAYNE STAKE: The Relief Society conference was held in the Thurber Relief Society hall. Meeting was called to order by Counselor Mary E. Hanks... Said she desired to see the young people step forward in the Church and prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors. Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were represented by their respective presidents. 'Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were also reported by their representatives.... Stake President Jane S. Coleman was pleased with the reports given and felt to thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.... At our meetings we should make choice of elevating subjects, such as virtue, charity... Also to see that our records are kept in good condition. Spoke in very appreciative terms of what the Thurber Relief Society had accomplished.... Through their energy and the assistance of the brethren they have built a fine brick building. —Annie QO. Coleman, Sec. CLARA BARTON: Clara Barton has started for Cuba again with an army of women. 'They carry food for the starving, clothing for the naked, medicine for the sick and succor for the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red Cross women deserve to be voters! —News Note MOTHERS CONGRESS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.: The dispatches bring news of the Mothers Congress now in session in Washington and to which four... Utah women are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson, Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B. Harker, Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo. —News Note MARTIN LUTHER Yet this brave and gifted leader Was tender in his love, In his care for wife and children He was gentle as a dove, In his character was mingled The stern, the fierce, the kind, Defiant when beset by wrong, Yet graceful and refined. —Mary A. Freeze DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION: Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons and daughters with the love of liberty and unity which are the greatest blessings vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study the divine institutions of our country. To make ourselves familiar with the history of our country and with the lives of our great men and women —Clarissa L. S. Williams QUEEN WILHELMINA: A date in mid-September, 1898, will probably be the day upon which Queen Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take the oath of succession to the Dutch throne. No one could have shown more tact in managing affairs of state during her daughter's minority than the Queen Regent, who, like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a person of singularly unpretentious manners. —News Note Page 304 BOXARO OVERSTREET is coauthor with her husband, Harry, of an excellent new book, The Mind Goes Forth. It calls for greater compassion, understanding, and patience toward our fellow human beings. It also comments on the tendency in colleges even in the scientific and technical schools — toward giving the liberal arts an important place in the curriculum. BETsY SNITE, famed skier from Norwich, Vermont, won the women's slalom in the Mont Lachaux trophy meet at Crans-surSerre, Switzerland. She was victorious over Madelaine Chamot-Berthod of Switzerland, the 1956 Olympic women's downhill champion. NANCY LALLY, of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, is the top teenage crocheter of the United States, according to the judges of the 1957 national crocheting contest. She was awarded a prize of $500. Her entry was a set of ten crocheted dolls. UTH MONTGOMERY, a reporter for the International News Service, won the 1957 George R. Holmes award for excellence in reporting. Mr. Holmes was a famed INS Washington Bureau chief, who died in 1939. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MBs. CAROLYN SCOGGINS, of Missouri, a graduate of Cordon Bleu School (for cooking) in Paris, operates a correspondence school of cooking, with suggestions added for creating top-bracket hostesses. Interesting questions and answers fly through the mail. Newlyweds, bachelors, housewives, and celebrities are among her clientele. RS. VADA F. CARLSON of Flagstaff, Arizona, is a writer who is particularly interested in American Indians. She was born in Nebraska near a Sioux reservation, has lived near the Klamath Indian reservation, and close to the Wind River reservation — home of the Shoshone and Arapaho tribes. She wrote, in collaboration with Mrs. Sheila Hart, We Saw the Sun Dance. She has also written a volume of poems, The Desert Speaks, and is now working with a gifted Hopi woman on a novel with authentic Hopi background. LICE M. ROBINSON, Director of Nursing Education, Vermont State Hospital, at Waterbury, Vermont, stresses the necessity for the feeling of love toward patients. "To be able to love even one patient with whom we work day by day in a mental hospital is assurance that that patient will begin to find the way back." Page 305 CQ EDITORIAL a VOL. 45 MAY 1958 NO. Mlaking Right Choices HE glorious principle of free agency allows man to attain to eternal life. It has been bestowed by an all-wise Father upon his earthly children. When a child is born, parents know that the time will come when their child will have to make his own decisions and exercise his own free agency. Fortunate is the child who is guided to make right decisions during his growingup period. One Saturday night when Mother was laying out Johnny's clothes for Sunday School, he declared that he wasn't going the next morning. 'his situation arises in many households, and different parents may meet this situation in different ways. Johnny's mother drew him close to her and spoke of the love of their Heavenly Father for them both, and the wonderful opportunities he had given to Johnny to receive a body and be able to learn more and more in this life and hereafter. 'Then Mother spoke of the duties that Heavenly Father had given her and Johnny's father, to rear him in light and truth. She finished by kissing Johnny and telling him that Heavenly Father had given Johnny a spirit which would tell him what was right and what was wrong. "I will leave you to decide for yourself, Johnny, whether you will go to Sunday School or not tomorrow. If you decide the right thing, you will be happy way inside, and then you will know you want to stay a part of our family. If you decide the wrong Page 306 thing, the spirit will let you know because you won't feel happy way inside." Leaving the decision to Johnny to make, with the constant home training which had preceded it, resulted in Johnny's going to Sunday School. Praise, commendation, and further training set the pattern for Johnny's attendance at Church meetings in future years, as well. He realized early that the decision to be good rested largely with him. Jane was given a dollar by her uncle. She could hardly wait to go downtown and buy a charm bracelet she had seen in the store window marked one dollar. Mother stopped the work she was doing and reminded Jane that she owned only ninety cents of the dollar. The other ten cents belonged to Heavenly Father. "I will change the dollar for you, and you can put the ten cents in this tithing bank," Mother offered. "But then I won't be able to buy my bracelet," Jane objected. "That is true," Mother replied, "but Heavenly Father has given us everything we have, and if we will only give him back one-tenth, he will give us blessings that will last forever. And it won't be long until you can earn eleven cents by helping me, and that will give you your ten cents and one cent for your tithing bank." Jane was faced with making her own decision. "Every time you look at your bracelet, you will feel happy," Mother concluded, "'because you will have made me, and EDITORIAL Daddy, and Heavenly Father happy, too. Here is the change of your dollar, and, if you decide to pay your tithing, put the ten cents in this bank, and run in the kitchen and let me hear it rattle." It was not long until a happy Jane was rattling the bank in her mother's ear. There are times when decisions cannot be left to children to make, no matter how careful the home training has been, but the more a mother can place choices before her child, and influence him to make the right choice, the brighter will be the outlook for the child's future. It is the small day-by-day dect- 307 sions which form the character of an individual. Throughout one's life, temptations continue to present themselves. When a choice must be made, fortunate is the person who can recall his mother or father pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of a certain situation. The encouragement given to him as a child to make right choices and the remembered feeling of well-being which followed, condition one's conduct in later life. Then one's own reason will dictate that choice which will lead to a bright eternal fulture. —M. C. S. O<>-o— WVhite Lilacs Grace Zenor Pratt _.. When I think of spring in Utah, I remember lilacs— Lilacs white and lavender and blue." And oh, my Mother, when I think of lilacs I remember you - The little town we lived in, the poplar trees, the crystal stream, The brooding mountains; all my girlhood's dream Recalls those days; I was so thoughtless then— There were so many things I failed to do. But through the years, my se lfish heart has yearned To show my Mother all that I have learned— Of her true love of beauty, her great worth— All that she gave to me while here on earth. White lilacs. I should love to go and lay upon my Mother's grave A great armful of scented blossoms; She loved them so— And somehow I still feel that she may know I have not forgotten through the changing years, When I would offer flowers wet with tears. I never knew when [ was young, How aging mothers feel, Until I, too, come close to evensong— Kindness and love and tender sympathy to bless; And time to comfort with a soft caress And now, I offer lilacs fragrant, white, Before I go— Forgive me, Mother, for at last... I know. Woteds. TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University Leadership Week 35TH ANNUAL "FESTIVAL OF LEARNING'—""YOuR PART IN THE FaBuLOUS YEARS AHEAD" EADERSHIP Week will be held June 23-28, 1958, on the Brigham Young University Campus, Provo, Utah. The basic goal of Leadership Week is to provide educational experiences which will help all members of the Church to become better leaders in the home, the community, and the Church. Thoughtful people will ask what goals the United States should strive toward during the coming quarter-century. What kind of world should America be trying to bring about by 1980? What problems will be met, and with what posture will they be faced? Leadership Week 1958, "Your Part in the Fabulous Years Ahead," is less concerned with what America will be like in 1980, than with what it should be like. Relief Society members have found the leadership classes of great interest and value and are looking forward to this year's program. 'The General Board wishes to call to the attention of Relief Society members the following classes which, in addition to many others (more than 500 classes), may be of special interest to Relief Society women: The Doctrine and Covenants American Literature Latter-day Saint Family Life Food in Our Changing World Home Laundry Home Nursing Arts and Crafts for Adults The Book of Mormon as Literature Improvement of Teaching for Teachers of Adults Making Your Own Audio-Visual Materials Materials and Methods for Church Choirs The Art of Parenthood Looking Forward to the Golden Years Aging in the Modern World Writing for Church Publications The Church Organist Public Speaking in the Church Family Recreation A detailed program may be obtained by writing to Brigham Young University, Adult Education and Extension Services, Provo, Utah. While the instructions and teachings received at Leadership Week are not the official instructions representing Relief Society, yet the material is beneficial because it will supplement and enhance understanding. Page 308 NOTES TO THE FIELD 309 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LEADERSHIP WEEK Brigham Young University is also planning to hold a Leadership Week in Los Angeles, California, in August 1958. 'This will be of special interest to Relief Society members in Southern California. >< All Out—All A ges—Polio Vaccination Roundup Virginia L. Blood Consultant, Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Can Adults Get Polio? Yes, they can and they do. Polio hits men and women, usually striking them harder than it strikes children. While polio incidence in persons over forty is relatively low, the degree of adult involvement is definitely high. 'Three out of four respiratory patients today are twenty years or older. Don't take a chance. Take Salk shots, whatever your age. There is plenty of vaccine available today. Ask your doctor for Salk shots for your entire family. Are Parents Safe From Polio If Their Children Have Been Vaccinated? No. You must be vaccinated yourself to be protected. A vaccinated child, or adult, still can carry the polio virus without harm to himself. But he may pass it along to others still unvaccinated and therefore still susceptible. Are You Safe If Your Neighbors Have Been Vaccinated? No, and for the same reason as above. If there is no polio virus in your community, you may well be safe, and think you are immune. But you cannot be sure. Your neighbor's vaccination, like your child's, cannot give you immunity. Your own personal vaccination can do that. How Can Three Minutes Spare a Lifetime of Suffering? It takes only one minute to get one Salk shot today. It takes another MINUTE to get a second shot from two to six weeks later. And only ONE MINUTE more for a third shot seven months after that. 'Three minutes taken NOW can prevent a lifetime of needless crippling. Make arrangements to start SALK shots NOW for your entire family. a SSS oe ap -. Young len Shall See Ussions, OUNG men, young women — you are living in a wonderful day. No generation since the dawn of time has seen so much progress. None has faced such a future. Electricity, the steam engine, the telephone, the telegraph, the automobile, the airplane, the radio, the television, nuclear power they're all products of your generation. So, in a degree never before known to man, are hidden treasures of truth now being revealed. The prophets foresaw and foretold these days in the beautiful language of poetry and prophecy: "... Your old men shall dream dreams, your Page 310 YOUNG MEN SHALL SEE VISIONS 311 young men shall sce visions... And I will shew wonders in the heaven above, and signs in the earth..,." In fulfillment, a Boy Scout prepares for a merit badge test and tunes his short-wave radio to a new world of astral signals and sounds — and goes on to become a physical scientist or a designer of airplanes. He sets his sight on the stars and a globe-circling satellite is born. An inspired teacher opens the intellect and stirs the soul of a gifted pupil — and a surge of hidden forces comes alive. What visions! What dreams! \What wonders! And for you, young men and young women of the Church, what glorious opportunities, what awesome responsibilities. What can you do? If vou would "find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures," seek learning — by study and by faith. Keep the commandments. And with it all— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF ->~<—— My Mothers Srust Hannah C. Ashby My mother's trust was like a star, To guide my path that led afar. She had such confidence in me, I always felt that I was free To make a choice without a bar. And yet for worlds, I would not mar That sacred tie, or leave a scat To blemish in a slight degree My mother's trust. How helpful loving mothers are, They gently leave the door ajar. The teachings at my mother's knee Have shaped my earthly destiny. The greatest debt I know, is for My mother's trust. —o<—i-o— Recompense Hazel M. Thomson I carefully plucked out each gray hair, But they returned at stepped-up pace; Today I looked into the mirror, And saw my mother's face. Recipes From the Uruguayan Mission Submitted by Louise B. Parry TOMATO SURPRISE—IOMATES SORPRESA (Salad ) Skin and cut the tomatoes in halves, remove seeds and pulp. Inside of each one of them, put a raw egg, taking care not to break. Add seasoning (salt and pepper). Cover with white sauce and grated cheese. Put in the oven for five minutes or until the egg is cooked. PARADISE Soup—Sopa PARAISO "BBs di: 4 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 4 tbsp. Bread crumbs Beat thoroughly egg whites and then add to beaten yolks. Add the bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Mix well and drop by spoonfuls in the bouillon, and boil for six to eight minutes. ComMBINED Soup—Sopa LIGADA 12 c. Bouillon 6 tbsp. Cheese 1% tbsp. Flour 6 egg yolks Pour into a pan the bouillon and add the flour and grated cheese. Cook well and stir constantly. In the soup bowl, beat thoroughly egg yolks and pour the bouillon over them, stirring well. SMALL Meat Pies—EMPANADAS CRIOLLAS (Main Dish) Dough: 3 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs "2 c. Water 1 tbsp. Shortening Combine the flour, eggs, shortening, salt, and water. Form the dough and roll it until one-fourth inch thick. Cut in rather small squares and put one-half tablespoon of the filling in the center of each piece and fold them in half to form tnangles. Build up fluted edges on each one of fhem. Filling: 3 large onions 2 hard Oe cee 1 lb. Ground beef Taisins as desire pepper and salt to taste green olives as desired Brown in oil or margarine the onions, finely chopped, and the ground beef. Add pepper and salt to taste. When nicely browned, add the hard boiled eggs finely chopped, raisins, and green olives as desired. CrIooLLo Cooxirs—MasiTas CRIOLLAS (Dessert ) 2 eggs 2 c. Flour % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder % c. Butter Mix together the eggs, sugar, butter, flour, and baking powder and beat thoroughly. Page 312 RECIPES FROM THE URUGUAYAN MISSION 313 Shape into small cookies and put on greased baking sheet. Sprinkle with chopped almonds and confectioner's sugar. Bake in moderate oven until nicely browned. Tortas FRITAS ( Dessert ) 2 c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder % ¢. Cold water 1 tsp. Salt fat for deep frying 2% tbsp. Butter Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in the butter and add the egg and water. Press dough into ball and knead until soft. Roll out on floured board to one-fourth inch thick. Cut with round cutter or a floured glass. Fry on both sides until golden brown; remove and drain on paper toweling. If desired, while still warm sprinkle with confectioner's or granulated sugar before serving. Best served while hot. These tortas are something like pancakes, but are for dessert. Precious &p isode Dora Toone Brough I held a small, soft hand in mine today— A three-year-old. W§th anxious feet we went Exploring—saw the kittens in the hay— The cow and calf in pasture quite content. The air was full of happy springtime signs. We listened to the robin's chirping call— Heard meadowlarks and picked fresh dandelions, And climbed the fence down by the waterfall. We counted tulips near the flagstone walk— Saw orchards full of apple blossom smell, And scores of questions answered in our talk Of what, and how—so many things to tell. A box of sand came next. We settled down To build a castle, on a hill, as high As grandpa's barn. We fashioned dogs, a clown, Some pies and cakes. We caught a butterfly. This day is precious—as when I held his hand, Your Daddy's, and built castles in the sand. The Finish Frances C. Yost OM sat down at the breakfast table. He noticed the crisp white tablecloth, the neatly folded napkins, the pretty dishes Sally had used. Then he looked at the breakfast fare and a frown gathered on his face. "What, cracked wheat cereal and powdered milk again... Oh, no!" Tom shuddered, looked at Sally, and shook his head. "Pm sorry, Tom, honest I am." Sally looked a little hurt. "I'm not blaming you, Sally. I know you're a super cook, and if I brought home the bacon and ham and sausage and eggs and things, you'd cook them. I'm fed up on this working my way through college, and living like... Like this, and I'm quitting and getting a job!" "Tom, you can't quit now. Why it's already March, and you only have until June. We can stick it out, honest we can!" Sally said encouragingly. "What's a degree in pharmacy if it means you and Donny and Sally Lynn have to suffer?" "Nobody's suffered, Tom. Why I took Sally Lynn and Donny to the well-child clinic yesterday, and they're gaining steadily. I guess I've skimped on your food, rather than theirs," Sally spoke apologetically. "I've weighed the problem, and I'm quitting," Tom said as he sugared his cereal and poured the powdered milk over it and started to chew and swallow his food with no outward sign of enjoyment. Sally didn't feel like eating now. She just sat at the table and Page 314 watched Tom. She had been pretty proud of the way she had managed, and 'Tom hadn't had one of these outbursts for a long time. She felt the tears gathering. She hoped she could hold off her cry until he left their little campus apartment. But 'Tom had seen her. "Don't take it so personal, Sally. A fellow's got to pop off someplace. I guess home isn't the proper place to do it, though, and, especially, when a pretty wife has set a pretty breakfast table. But, Sally, let's face it, you've been managing on practically nothing too long. I'm going to give up and get a job and support my family decently. Monday morning I'm handing in my papers and quitting school!" "But, Tom, we can manage on your... Your job," Sally implored. "Say it, Sally, on my garbage collecting job. I'm not only tired of seeing you skimp, I'm tired of getting up at 4:30 every morning and collecting garbage, and eating powdered milk. A degree isn't worth it. This is the finish!" Sally Lynn, sleeping close by in the crib, started to cry. Sally picked her up, put her over her shoulder, and patted her little back comfortingly. She had to comfort Tom, too. Somehow she had to keep him going put him through. "Let's go see your grandmother today, Tom. It's Saturday and you need a change." "Sally, must I point out to you, the car doesn't run without gas?" Tom ejaculated. "I have five dollars saved for THE FINISH an emergency, and I think this is it," Sally said cheerfully. ""Granny's getting old, 'Tom. She won't be here too long." Under her breath she said, "If anyone can cheer 'Tom up, Granny Crocket can." w OK KK Ke OK ELL, bless my soul!' Granny Crockett said, as she held the door open and welcomed Tom and Sally. "My, I'm glad you brought the kiddies!" "We take them most places, Granny. It saves sitter money!" Sally smiled, as she took off the children's wraps and dropped into the comfortable rocking chair Granny Crocket offered. "I never could figure why they started calling people who tend children 'sitters.' I've been tending children for more than sixty years, off and on, and I've never been able to sit long." Granny chuckled. "You should bring little Donny and Sally Lynn here to me, and let me tend them while you two go on a little vacation after you get your degree, 'T'om." "I'm not going to get the degree, Granny," Tom said determinedly. "Monday morning ['m turning in my books and finding a_ job and." "Not finish, oh, no, Tom! You'll regret it as long as you live. Just as I have."" Granny Crocket shook her head. "T didn't know you went to college, Granny," 'T'om said, interested. "Tell us about it." "Well, it wasn't called college. It had been a fort, and was later converted into a place of learning just east of Beaver City. It was called the Murdock Academy. We 315 had excellent teachers, Brother Maeser taught there, and dear old Alfred Durham was the music teacher. My older brother Wilford and I traveled from Fillmore and had a couple of rooms in one of those lovely old brick houses. Our apartment was rather plain compared to modern living, but we managed, and we had fun and did a lot of good, down-to-earth learning." "That's where you met Grandpa Lee, wasn't it?" 'Tom asked. He liked to get Granny talking about the good old days. Her eyes lighted up with happy memories. The years seemed to slip from her shoulders and she was youthful again. "Yes, Grandpa Lee often said that the day I walked into the classroom he looked up and saw me, and turned to his friend at his side and said, "That's my girl!' 'What's her name?' the student asked him. 'TI don't know,' Grandpa Lee replied, 'T haven't met her yet." "Must have been love at first sight," 'Tom chuckled. "Well, Grandpa Lee always figured it was more than that. He said it was just as if he had known me in the spirit world." Granny Crockett's voice had a sacred tone. "Tell us about your college days, Granny." 'Tom coaxed. "T told you brother Wilford and I lived together and kept house. People lived in families more then. Nowadays girls and boys live in separate dormitories and have their food all prepared for them. Well, Wilford and I did our own cooking. We brought lots of good food from our home in Fillmore, and we man- 316 aged quite well. But when winter set in, the roads were bad and Pa couldn't get down and bring us more flour and cereal and canned fruits and vegetables and things. And our money was gone and." Granny took a_hanky pocket, and wiped her eyes and apologized. "I haven't related this often, and never without a tear or two," but she continued bravely. €6YA7HEN we saw the food getting low, we did ration, we cut out one meal a day completely, and we skimped and tried to manage, but try as we would, the food tan out except for potatoes." Granny paused. "Well, you can do a lot with potatoes."" Sally smiled. "Yes, if you have something to go with them. But toward the last we had no lard to fry them, no butter to put on them, no milk or meat to make gravy, just plain boiled potatoes... For days just boiled potatoes. It looked like the finish." "Why didn't you ask for help? Why didn't you go to the store and get credit?" Tom asked. "Wilford did humble himself and go to the store and ask for credit, but in those days things were strictly cash, more than now." "Why didn't you tell Grandpa Lee your troubles?" 'Tom asked. "Grandpa Lee has often asked me that same question." Granny Crocket smiled. "But I guess it was pride that kept us silent. My brother 'Wilford was his best chum, too, but neither of us breathed a word, not to one single soul. "Then the week end came, and Grandpa Lee invited Wilford to go home with him. Grandpa Lee from _ her | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 lived on a lovely beef ranch just a short way from the college. I begged and begged Wilford to accept the invitation and go. He was a big fellow with a growing-boy appetite. It was harder for him than for me to to go without." Tom and Sally found they, too, had pulled out their handkerchiefs and were wiping their eyes. Then Granny Crocket continued: "That was such a good chance for Wilford. It meant a whole weekend of good eating. It meant roasts and gravy, vegetables and fruit, cool milk and rich cream on the cereal for breakfast, and good desserts like carrot pudding and vinegar pie. But dear old Wilford was too... Too loyal to go and leave me. He turned that wonderful invitation down. He said he had to cram for tests." "What did you do? Did the supplies get through from your own folks?" 'Tom asked. "No, the supplies didn't come, and the mail didn't get through, either. We had hoped every day for something from Pa or Ma, but nothing came. We just went on eating boiled potatoes. Finally, I couldn't look a potato in the face. That's the honest truth. I sort of started just living on water. 'sTT was the next week end that Grandpa Lee asked me to go home with him. It was a big temptation. I would have said 'yes' too quickly to be polite, but then I remembered Wilford who had sacrificed the same chance for me only a week before. I started to say, I had to study, but Wilford came along and said, 'Of course she'll go with you, Lee.' "Somehow I just had to be loyal THE FINISH as my brother, even if I died, so I said, 'But I have to cook for Wilford!' ""Cook for me, that's a laugh!' Wilford said. 'She'll have her clothes packed the minute school's out!' "It was a wonderful tnp in the old whitetop buggy. If I hadn't been so hungry, it might have been romantic. I wasn't thinking so much about being with my best boy friend and meeting his folks as I was thinking about what his mother might cook. "Grandpa Lee was the youngest of ten children, and his mother always cooked things special for him when he came home Friday nights. As we jogged along he wondered what his mother would have cooked up. And my mouth watered just listening to him. I remember so well how we drove into the lane and his folks came out to meet us. Soon as we were in the house and had our wraps off, Lee's father said: 'Now Ma's fixing an early supper but, while we're waiting, have a glass of Ma's grapejuice.' "IT was glad for anything offered me. But I had no more finished the grapejuice than the stairway at one end of the big living room started going around, and then I fainted completely away. "It didn't take your Grandpa Lee's mother long to find out what was ailing me. She was of pioneer stock and had been through life's mill herself. She fed me well and loaded the buggy with all kinds of supplies for Wilford and me to start housekeeping properly again." "How long did you go to school at the Academy?" 'Tom asked. 317 "That's what I started out to tell you. I didn't finish. I married Grandpa Lee. We stayed on at the Academy, however. Grandpa Lee was taken on as the shop instructor, teaching woodwork. So, instead of being a student, I became one of the faculty member's wives. "Now, Tom, I want you to go on and finish, as I didn't. I want you to take this dab of money as a gift from me. You know, Tom, I'd like to be a little part of the finish with you." Granny Crocket winked. Tom looked at the crisp ten-dollar bill Granny Crockett had extended to him. An hour ago he wouldn't have been too proud to take a ten-dollar bill from anyone. But now he looked into her sparkling blue eyes and said, "Granny, I appreciate your thinking of me, but honest fact, we're getting along just fine. Why you should see what a pretty table Sally manages to set. We have cereal and milk, and most everything we need. And look at Sally Lynn and Donny. Why, only yesterday, Sally took them to the well-child clinic and they're gaining right along." But Tom's speech hadn't fooled old Granny Crocket. "Tom, when a smart fellow like you talks about not finishing college, it's the lack of money that's behind the talk. Take it!" "Granny Crocket, just talking to you has made me change my mind about quitting school. So you buy yourself a new bonnet with this money and be to the graduation exercises in June. When they hand me my degree, I want you there to be part of the finish!" You Can gg Sitting Jean Ridges Jennings (CLOTHES may or may not make the woman, but the woman who makes her ow! Clothes will feel considerably better about do! It, J she knows how properly Regardless of how well the actual stitching is done, 4 dress will not learning to fit dresses to themselves. With patience and knowledge of a 1. It can be done quite easily. Lt ls a real convenience and time-savet, if one doesn t need to feels easy and comfortable, snug enough 'ao to its wearer. It does not have to endure unnecessary pulls 1. Always fit clothes right side out for accuracy and proper symmetry. 2. Be sure to retain the direction of the grain of the material that was obtained by 1 threads are pe perfectly straight and perpendicular to the floor (Figute 1). _ Underarm waist seams and skirt seams should hang straight down — not swing: ing to the back or front (Figure 2)- The waistline seam should appeat around the figure. 4. Fitting should always be done over Page 318 the same clothes that will be worn with the dress. 5. Do not ft too snugly. Allow room for walking, sitting, and moving the arms. Figure faults are more noticeable when clothes are too tight. The neckline OF armhole be taken up in the seam. Keep the dress om a hanger when you are not working 07 it. 'This prevents many wrinkles and saves unnecessary pressingIt also gives bias sections a chance to sag into their natural shapes. One of the commonest mistakes made by beginning sewers is that of sewing in the darts before fitting. Shape sections to the sndividual figure, 'Thus they are one of the lmportant fitting points on 4 dress and must be adjusted to personal needs. When you use darts, try different places until you get 4 smooth, becoming, line. Front shoulder darts remove wrinkles from the shoulder down to d should be directed toward the full part of the bust. Back the skit back or f smoothness between the hip and a YOU CAN SEW—III. FITTING snug waistline. Do not space back skirt darts too far apart on a large figure. Elbow darts properly located give elbow room and hold fullness in the right place. Bend the elbow and place darts at elbow point. Every woman soon learns the easiest plan for her to follow in fitting a dress, but a few suggestions may help. Pin and baste as much as is necessary before the first fitting. Fit blouse and skirt at the same time to get a proper idea of how they will hang. When fitting a skirt, fit it to the band, pinned around the waist. Before doing any actual fitting, study the general effect of all sides of the dress in a full-length mirror. Decide what is good and what needs changing. In makFigure 1 319 ing needed changes be sure to keep grain lines straight throughout the entire fitting. Space does not permit a detailed discussion of all fitting problems. Special help is always available in excellent sewing manuals found in pattern departments and book stores. When you work alone, it may help to compare measurements with those of a dress that fits well. 'Take note of any fitting problems you have, and anticipate them when cutting out your next dress. Remember that the properly fitted dress is comfortable when the wearer stands, sits, or moves around. It is snug where fashion demands, but never feels tight or strained. Figure 2 Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to a ranch in Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children, and later, after her return to her work, she decided to go back to the children. However. She found them well cared for by their grandmother and an efficient housekeeper. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a kindlv neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony believed himself to be in love with Carol. RENT Gibson bent a carefully scrutinizing look upon Carol as he greeted her after her two weeks' rest in Wyoming. "You still look well!" he declared. "Real well. You know, I've been rather worried. No letters, no phone calls, nothing! I thought maybe youd found some handsome young Ww voming rancher and had forgotten all about Your Home Magazine." Carol, feeling lighthearted now that she was back in the city, ready to go to work again, laughed. The rest must have done her good, for she felt like teasing this matter-offact boss of hers. "I did!" she said, her eyes twinkling. "I did find a handsome young rancher, Tony Muir, just back from a mission to England and." "Looking for a wife!'' Brent said crossly. "They all do." The bantering tone left Carol's voice. She asked soberly, "Did you, Brent, when you returned from South America?" Page 22) He hesitated a moment and then said, "Yes." Surprised a little at the short answer, Carol looked more closely at her companion. His face betrayed nothing. She couldn't help asking, "What happened?" He shrugged. "She married someone else. 'That's all." Instant sympathy softened Carol's voice. "I'm sorry, Brent." "Tm not," he said firmly. "I'm not, Carol. I've learned a lot since that bygone day. I've learned that, while a man's first young love is very sweet and compelling, it is as nothing compared to the overwhelming tenderness that comes later. Though he may never gain his heart's desire, that later love is so enriching, so rewarding, in itself, that it is an experience not to be missed." He stopped abruptly, then went on in a businesslike tone. "The car's over here, Carol. And as we drive to the office, I want to fill you in on this Maybelle Ray deal. As I told you on the phone, it's a bright red feather in our cap to get a story from her. I had to pay plenty, but it's a gorgeous story. And you can do the crowing, for she sent her story to me because she wanted you to illustrate it. That was her one condition." Carol] listened, but not with her heart. Her heart was busy with the hidden chapter in Brent's life that this short lecture had disclosed. That later love he spoke about—it ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN must be for the same person as his first young passion. She had never heard, in her years of working with him, of any serious affair—of anyone who might have stirred him deeply. And he had said, '""Though he never gain his heart's desire." She stole a sidewise glance at her companion, and felt a wave of tenderness for him. He was not what most people would call handsome, but he had firm, regular features and the kindest eves and mouth she had ever seen. The girl must have been blind not to see his worth. How many men would cherish a lost love—nurse it into a rewarding and enriching factor in their lives? "You're not hearing a thing I say!" Brent complained, grinning ruefully. "Mooning over that handsome returned missionary, I bet." Carol smiled. "If you only '? Knew! HE new serial was, as Brent had said, a gorgeous story. It had everything that would lend itself to the type of painting Carol excelled in. As she read the manuscript, her imagination caught at scene after scene that would make vivid, compelling pictures, and her fingers curled, almost feeling the brush between them. She could scarcely wait to get started. But it was to prove less exciting and easy than she had anticipated. The author, Maybelle Ray, nationally famous and thoroughly convinced of her tremendous importance, came to the city to oversee the job of illustrating. She had her own ideas of what the illustrations should be, and she did not hesitate to make them known. Day after day she came to Carol's studio, 321 watched for awhile, and then began to find fault with Carol's interpretation of action and character and even of background. Carol's nerves began to suffer. Once, losing patience, Carol asked sharply, "I thought you wanted me to do these pictures?" "IT do, darling!" Maybelle replied sweetly, "but only because I feel sure that you can do them the way I want them done!" Taken aback, Carol felt like resigning from the job. It wasn't her creative ability the author wanted; she just wanted a brush she could control — an educated brush, but a submissive one! Carol gritted her teeth and went on, doggedly. And then, suddenly, she came to the end of her patience. She stormed into Brent's office one afternoon after a long morning with the irritating author. "Pm giving up!" she cried, almost in tears. "I don't want the assignment. I can't take it any more, Brent! I simply cannot take it any longer!" "Steady, Carol!" he said gently. "And don't cry, please! Nothing about your job is worth one little tear." He had got up and come around the desk, taking her shoulders in his strong hands. His voice, his hands, calmed her. She smiled wryly, moved away, and sat down. "T guess I sounded like a hysterical child," she admitted. "But I've had a horrible morning." Then she went on quietly to describe Maybelle's interference with her work. "It's an unpleasant situation," he admitted, "but a bit ticklish, too. That story, Carol — I want to publish it. It's the best thing that has 322 ever come across my desk. And with your illustrations, honey, we'll put the magazine nght out in front of the world." "But you'll never have my illustrations if she keeps on heckling me!" "You told me you'd already finisheda couple." "IT had, trying to suit Maybelle. But then, after awhile when I looked at them they were so terrible — they just made me sick — so I scrapped them." She flung out her hands, palms up, in a helpless gesture. "I haven't a thing done, really." Bren back in his chair behind his desk, tapped a pencil against his teeth, considering. 'Then he put the pencil down with one decisive movement and said, "All right, Carol. P'll put a stop to this. Tonight we'll move you, bag and baggage, into that little empty room upstairs here. And you'll do those illustrations, without let or hindrance — and just the way you want to do them. And when our dear Maybelle comes howling at my door to find out where you are, [ll simply tell her there were too many distractions in your studio, and you've -had to get away by yourself to get the job done. And I won't tell her where you are. Okay?" Carol nodded. "I guess that's the only solution, Brent. But what if she's dissatisfied when they are all done?" "She's not going to see them until they appear in their proper places— in the pages of Your Home Magazine. And that is very definitely that! Now, you go back home and rest this afternoon, and I'll be around about eight to take you to dinner. After dinner, we'll move RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 you upstairs. Ill have the custodian get the room ready by then." DUE to the delay caused by Maybelle Ray's interference, Carol had to work extra hard and for long hours in order to get the work done by the deadline Brent had set. And the cramped, hot little room was an unpleasant change from her own light and airy studio. But Carol was an artist who took almost as much pride in meeting a deadline as she did in the excellence of her work. So, though she felt utterly exhausted at each day's end, she didn't complain to Brent. She just kept doggedly on, often even forgetting her discomfort in the joy of creating. For the story was a satisfying one, and the work of putting it into figures, instead of words, challenged every ounce of her creative ability. When she laid the last of the illustrations on Brent's desk, she rubbed her hand tiredly across her forehead, and noticed that it was midsummer and dreadfully hot. She had a sudden, clear vision of the cool blue of the 'Tetons, frosted with snow. She had not forgotten 'Tony's urgent invitation, though, isolated in her new little office, she had not received any calls from him. She had picked up her mail at her apartment, letters from the children and from Tony. And she had telephoned to the youngsters from time to time. But now she wanted to keep that promise of sorts. She wanted to get away to the serenity and peace of the mountains. "T know I had two weeks early this spring," she said to Brent, "but I'm awfully tired, Brent. If there's (Continued on page 340) Magazine Honor Roll For 1957 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp THE General Board congratulates all those responsible for the record of Magazine subscriptions made during 1957. In spite of the necessity of raising the price to $2, as of August 1957, still the number of subscriptions reached an all-time high of 150,988 — with an increase of 2,426 number of subscriptions over 1956. The substantial increase attests the devotion of Magazine representatives — representatives who walked through storms to obtain renewals so that no issue would be lost by subscribers; representatives who called on newcomers and who in addition to selling them a subscription, let them know that Relief Society was vitally interested in their welfare; sisters who, although homebound, made telephone contacts for Magazine representatives; representatives who used their own cars to reach the sisters living far away; representatives who returned two and three times to a home to obtain a subscription. These and other services were performed by ward and branch Magazine _ representatives who honored and magnified their callings. Stake and mission Magazine representatives spent many hours in giving vital suggestions at union meetings, giving training in salesmanship, keeping Magazine records for the stake or mission, and enthusing and encouraging ward and branch representatives. The General Board attaches great significance to the calling of a Magazine representative. It is an unselfish service of great benefit to Relief Page 324 Society throughout the world. Presidencies who support their Magazine representatives also contribute to the well-being of Relief Society through having their sisters subscribe to the Magazine. Why is the Magazine vital to the work of Relief Society? It is a messenger which carries the spirit of Relief Society into every home it enters. It instructs on new policies and rules and sets forth in both print and pictures the activities and programs of this world-wide sisterhood. It records the history of Relief Society. It teaches approved, outlined courses of study to bring mental and spiritual development and progression. The Relief Society Magazine brings joy to readers through creative writings of poetry and prose by Latter-day Saint women. It suggests ways of improving homemaking and ties together the sisterhood of the Church. It indeed seems an essential part of Relief Society and the work of the sisters of the Church. For the eleventh consecutive year, South Los Angeles leads the stakes of the Church with a percentage of 251%. South Gate Ward of South Los Angeles Stake again leads the wards with 520%. 'The Central States Mission leads the missions with 113%, with Northern California just 1% less. 'The Central States Mission also has the highest district—West Kansas District with 163%, and the highest mission branch, Oklahoma City Branch with 3507. There are eighty-eight stakes MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 whose percentage is 100% or over; there are 220 stakes on the honor roll; and twenty stakes in which all the wards achieved 100% or over. There are 1,854 wards on the honor roll. 'There are sixteen missions on the honor roll in 1957 and 559 branches. Ever since 1872 the women of the Church have had their own publication, and over the years the work of placing the publication in the homes of Latter-day Saint women has been entrusted to faithful sisters 325 who have willingly accepted this strenuous and exacting but satisfying call. Today The Relief Society Magazine representatives give unselfishly of their time, of their talents, and of themselves to further their important work for Relief Society. The General Board extends its heartfelt thanks to them, the presidencies, and to the subscribers who help make a publication for women a continued reality in the Church. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 251% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 520% Magazine Representative—Eva Guynn Mission Central States Mission—113% Mission Relief Society President—May E. J. Dyer Mission District West Kansas District, Central States Mission—163% Magazine Representative—Helen J. Ryan Mission Branch Oklahoma City Branch—350% West Oklahoma District, Central States Mission Magazine Representative—Gertrude Russell Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles -2.-2.2--2-----lseeeeeeeeees Glendale - 22..2.2.2.2.2-22-02-ccceseeesceeeeeeceeeeeeceeeees Provo -..-.----- Oquirrh Inglewood Santa Monica 2.--2:0-20.--2-eeeeeeeeeeeee— e--oseee-128 Beth Moore 128 lone Church..-124 Silva Mahnken 122 Edith L. McKenny Rexburg Burley TOG BGACH ~ icen n.. Sense eeccesecncennceecneccees a 2. _ 182 Elsie Weber PTET ITT TTT ee Edna C. Stoutsenberger Flora Buggert Helen D. Jensen Janet C. Medina Kathleen Savage 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Central States - -SR er. —--113 May E. J. Dyer Northern California - 2.2..2 222..222220-2-s1eoee-e+ 112 Hazel S. Love Western States 0 ce see cceeccencceneceeseseeeees107 Grace R. Gardner California --.. A ee. <a gg..--Alta H. Taylor Taster Stal@s 200 o. Oo ceo nececee ccc nnerc owen 7 Florence S. Jacobsen West Central States - 2 2222.2.-22.-ee-eeeeeeeeeeees 96 Anna C. Merrill Gaia mec go Leah H. Lewis Gulf States 222.202.222.222. Eeeeecee eee eeeee tenner eeeeeeeees 85 ~Emma A. Hanks North Central States - 2..222.2-2.--2-:--eeeeeeeeeee 84 Diana F. Child Western Canadian 22.-. Esseseeeteeeeeeeees 84 Annie Ruth Larson Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2881 Bountiful 923 Glendale 1195 North Idaho Falls gll San Diego 1084 % Wells gil Ensign 965 North Davis 910% South Salt Lake 929 Highland 889 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Central States 1223 Western States 898 Southern States 1067 West Central States 835 Eastern States 1065 Northwestern States 768 Great Lakes 1018 California 708 Central Atlantic States 970 British 628 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Burbank --Edith L. McKenny Oquirth ----Helen D. Jensen Burley - -.-----------Ione Church Orange County Mabel M. Martin East Long Beach Margaret Bryan Pasadena -.---Vera Jean N. Jones East Sharon Edna M. Hansen Pocatello -.-.-Esther H. Hanks Glendale Elsie Weber St. Joseph - -.. Nira P. Lee Inglewood ----Janet C. Medina yi)Merle Young Las Vegas -.--Lila H. Leavitt South Box Elder Naomi P. Larkin Liberty - -Katherine H. McOmie South Los Angeles.. Edna C. StoutsenLong Beach Silva Mahnken berger Monument Park West Boise -Myrtle B. Oborn WESt 2. EeeeeeeeeeeeeHazel S. Robison West Pocatello Ione G. Slayden Nlission Percentages da Glonen Gea! Central States 113 Canadian go South Africa: 82 Northern California 112 Gulf States 85 Central Atlantic 82 Western States 107 North Central States 84 Southern States 80 California 99 Western Canadian 84 Great Lakes 79 Eastern States 97 New England 83 Northwestern States 78 'West Central 96 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 South Los Angeles Glendale Provo Oquirrh Inglewood Santa Monica Rexburg Burley Long Beach Burbank Las Vegas New York San Joaquin Boise Covina Shelley San Diego Orange County Monument Park Holladay North Pocatello North Idaho Falls Portland Kansas City Nyssa Sacramento Humboldt South Idaho Falls Bountiful Monument Pk. West East Long Beach East Sharon San Bernardino Calgary Minidoka West Boise Bear River Gridley Pocatello Redondo West Pocatello Union West Utah Bakersfield San Francisco South Box Elder Taylorsville Blackfoot St. Joseph Atlanta Sugar House Valley View Taylor Twin Falls 251 182 140 140 136 134 128 128 124 22 119 118 117 116 114 114 114 113 112 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 Liberty Malad Cottonwood South Salt Lake Grand Junction North Davis Bonneville Los Angeles Mt. Rubidoux Granite Reseda Idaho Falls East Mesa Spanish Fork Pasadena Woodruff Sevier East Phoenix Grant Seattle Southern Arizona Mt. Graham Salt Lake Tacoma Wells Columbia River North Jordan South Bear River American Falls Highland Rigby Great Falls Lake View Wasatch Yellowstone Mill Creek Park Uintah Nampa Bannock San Mateo Ashley North Tooele Oakland-Berkeley East Mill Creek Zion Park Ensign Cassia fF migration Phoenix Palmyra Young Ogden East Rigby Stakes b Y Percentages 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 North Seattle Big Horn San Jose Reno Rose Park New Orleans San Juan North Rexburg Star Valley Butte Temple View South Ogden Havward North Box Elder Washington East Provo Idaho Cache Portneuf San Fernando Tucson Maricopa W eiser Cedar Franklin East Los Angeles Nebo Flagstaff Chicago Wilford Gooding Murray Uvada South Summit Riverdale Mt. Jordan St. Johns Salmon River Detroit 'Timpanogos Mesa University Denver Lethbridge Sharon Kolob Millard Kanab St. George Springville Tooele Murray South Benson Deseret 327 328 Missoula Palo Alto 'Teton Grantsville Moapa Mt. Logan Raft River Grand Coulee Snowflake Riverside East Cache North Sevier Pioneer Alberta East Jordan Wayne FE] Paso Oneida Utah South Blackfoot Alpine Bear Lake Carbon North Carbon West Jordan Roosevelt North Sacramento Garfield South Davis MISSIONS ON THE Relief Society California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Eastern States Great Lakes Gulf States New England North Central States Northern California Northwestern States South Africa Southern States West Central States Western States Western Canadian Ben Lomond Florida Mt. Ogden Duchesne Juab Montpelier Weber Walnut Creek North Weber Santa Rosa Logan Midvale East Ogden Dallas San Luis North Sanpete Lost River South Sevier Nevada Summit Smithfield Spokane Lehi Beaver Davis Hyrum Lorin Farr Morgan Farr West Enrolment ues 620 1189 1085 1101 1288 572 665 581 477 981 228 1334 873 840 667 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 82 Canyon Rim 74 82 Parowan 74 82 Richland 74 82 Hillside 74 82 Willamette 74 82 Honolulu 73 81 Panguitch 7B 81 Santaquin-Tintic 73 81 Layton 78 81 Fresno 72 80 Klamath wiz 80 Orem 7a 80 San Luis Obispo 71 79 Santa Barbara 71 79 Lyman 70 79 Gunnison 69 78 Houston 69 78 Cannon 68 78 South Carolina 68 77 Juarez 68 il South Sanpete 67 77 Lake Mead 66 77. ~+=Emery 65 76 Blaine 64 76 Moroni 58 76 Virginia 58 76 Oahu 47 76 Brigham Young 75 University (Limited Participation ) HONOR ROLL—1957 Subscriptions Magazine No. Pct. Representative 708 99 Alta H. Taylor 560 go Leah H. Lewis 970 82 Lovell W. Smith 1223 113. May E. Dyer 1065 97 Florence S. Jacobsen 1018 79 Vonda H. Chnistensen 485 85 Emma A. Hanks 552 83 Alberta S. Baker 490 84 Diana F. Child 536 112 Hazel S. Love 768 78 Effie K. Driggs 188 82 Holly W. Fisher 1067 80 Lucile Bunker 835 96 Anna C. Merrill 898 107 Grace R. Gardner 559 84 Annie Ruth Larson Relief Society Alberta Alpine American Falls Ashley Atlanta Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Boise Bonneville Bountiful Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Columbia River Cottonwood Covina STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1957 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 665 561 84 998 833 83 336 336 100 463 451% 98 286 298 104 526 554 105 368 360 98 514 429 83 496 530 107 522 3200 6 21 480 82 591 506 86 900 856 95 560 587 105 436 504% 116 794 818 1038 850 923 109 572 696 122 640 816 128 394 369 94 soe FT 81 417 448 107 738 615 83 16 OUT 654 593 91 495 443 89 633 634% 100 371 384 104 627 717 114 Magazine Representative Lenore S. McNaughton Della M. Spafford Enid W. Thornton Maryetta Wardle Lucille K. Brown Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Margaret Read R. Faye Peterson Christine Harvey Vera Fullmer Della P. Means Melvira H. Barlow Eunice H. Van Orden Edith L. McKenny Ione Church Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Shirley Rogers Gertrude W. Edwards Claudia Martin Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Viola Hackett Mabel R. Baker Helen G, Baxter Relief Society Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granite EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 559 441% 79 870 659 76 948 824 87 759 649% 86 369 323 88 432 354 82 719 608 85 450 378% 84 747 807 108 962 360° 90 70 TH ie 208 20 97 659 524% 80 593 598 101 575 "6387 )0Ol 584 559 96 381 411 108 387 324 8&4 463 447% 97 992 965 7 606 456 L75 344 3810 90 468 385 82 759 687 91 276 228 8&8 657 1195 182 524 467 89 528 448 85 403 416 108 643 658 102 Magazine Representative Opal Burch Sarah B. Strong Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora J. Souter Ora Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Florence Vance Elva M. Brown Johann Hollingworth Vivian Cantwell Cora L. Mack Jane S. Watkins Dale Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Lola P. Wiley Adeline Jensen Anna W. Fox Lila J. Lutz Barbara Cline Gertie Mae Keller Phyllis W. Kingsford Lula Neilson Elsie Weber Hazel Pratt Amy Kent Zelda D. Broadhead Wilma D. Wetzel MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 329 Relief Society Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Hayward Highland Holladay Humboldt Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Kanab Kansas City Kolob Lake View Las Vegas Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa EnrollSubscriptions ment 795 464 265 520 460 889 703 188 686 394 650 531 507 442 304 490 674 681 631 668 763 540 645 612 584 269 535 681 805 No. 801% 395 264 553 427 889 781% 205 519 361 664 723 415 383 335 425 671 811 484 580 791 432% 803 463 602 210 554) 619 702 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1957 Pet. 101 85 100 106 93 100 111 109 76 92 102 136 82 87 110 87 100 119 77 87 104 80 124 76 103 78 104 oi 87 Magazine Representative Eliza G. King Ruth W. Rydalch Rachel Robison Lila M. Holdaway Agnes M. Nelson Leone Wade Flarence G. Blodgett Jeanene Dannen Angeline Smith Jennie S. Gilbert Erma W. Boyce Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Nellie Heaton Venna T. Witbeck Hilda W. Cherrington Glenda Thompson Lila H. Leavitt Rosa Ashton Thelma E. B. Derochie Katherine H. McOmie Ruby W. Amussen Silva Mahnken Ella N. Christensen Velma Shurley Marie Acor Elizabeth B. Facer Muriel Freeman Lola C. White Relief Society Midvale Mill Creek Millard Minidoka Missoula Moapa Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Nebo Nevada New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento 608 593 602 588 401 282 749 342 558 361 590 798 693 638 640 459 557 721 645 425 288 376 622 457 882 823 845 509 628 623 No. A85}2 587 522) 631 343 240 613 382 605 273 593 703 589 524 656 407} ATT 708 583 330 271 443 575 381 910% SOHAL, 846% 564 589 515 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 80 96 87 107 86 85 82 112 108 76 101 88 85 82 103 89 86 98 90 78 94 118 93 83 103 111 100 111 94 83 Magazine Representative Minerva W. Smith E. Orel A. Greenig DeVine McIntosh Shirley R. Eames Sarah Fillmore Era C. Jones Lola McCammon Sara H. Stone Hazel S. Robison Manilla W. Carter Cora B. Merrill Alice E. Johnson Lola H. Gibbons Shirley E. Wade Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Elva P. Payne Ida Cafferty Leona S. Crouch Ada M. Shakespear Evelyn G. Tolbert Thyra Stoddard Etha John Annie Parker Thora A. Martin Winona Telford Louisa Bradley Tura Hadley Arvilla Parkinson Laura P. Brew 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Relief Society North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Palmyra Palo Alto Park Pasadena Phoenix Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Rigby EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 618 487 79 467 447 96 392 331 84 489 477 98 625 506 81 464 508% 110 711 693 97 6380 607 96 6638 555 84 451 629% 140 552 621 113 616 594 96 342 292 85 768 751 98 105 Wb 101 987 808 8 97 585 494 84 481 511 106 622 687 110 469 427 91 480 670% 140 186 158 85 G75 'Th 106 621 589 95 409 418 102 625 800 128 754 753 100 Magazine Representative Nita S. Cook Chelta D. Brown Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar Marvel Barrow Vonda Huntington Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Mada M. Larsen Helen D. Jensen Mabel M. Martin Mabel Banks Agnes K. Schwarz Pearl E. Rohde Vera Jean N. Jones Rose Openshaw Emma O. Frenette Esther H. Hanks LaPreal Johnson Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Clarice Rentmeister Pearl S. Robison Bernice Hutchinson Beth Moore Ruey A. Ball Relief Society Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Luis San Mateo Santa Monica Santa Rosa Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 515 455 88 784 664% 85 539 446 83 587 555% 95 442 484 110 878 7602 87 450 394% 88 566 590% 104 203 178 88 To Tee 101 558 602 108 955 1084% 114 526 479 91 441 464 105 548 643 117 527 5O01l 95 508 478 94 494 390 19 418 409 98 582 779 134 463 373 81 473 476 101 819 826) 101 570 495 87 677 773 114 673 517% 77 Magazine Representative Edith Stacy Isabelle Sugden Katie Duncan Marjorie J. Peek Magdalene Richardson Agnes S. Pickett Glenda Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Anna Young Frances L. Kooyman Valeer M. Jolly Ruth M. Nelson Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Leah K. Jacobs Lena Millett Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Harriet S. Zeitschel Kathleen Savage Edna Viola Harris Leona D. Torney Florence U. Ogden Norma Dee Jameson Merle Young Vera R, Cantwell MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 331 Relief Society Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos EnrollSubscriptions ment 648 581 590 630 777 728 1147 713 899 501 440 303 583 649 506 716 847 356 596 657 746 768 502 678 No. 550 582 493% 663 641% 794 2881 665 929 390% 389 305 594 499 437% 671% 881% 275 599 682 785 719 A428%s 592 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1957 Pet. 85 100 84 105 83 109 251 93 103 78 88 101 102 vii 86 94 104 77 101 104 105 94 85 87 Magazine Representative Adele H. Ballard Dorothy B. Kerr Gladys H. Harman Naomi P. Larkin Elsie Logsdon Wynnette K. Card Edna C. Stoutsenberger Virgia P. Jensen Hannah Dietrich Margaret Bown Susie D. Andrus Maud Poot Lois Dedrickson Lola M. May Donetta H. Anthon Vera H. Roberts Nellie J. Ehlers Thelma P. Brown Nettie M. Blake Nellie T. Ririe Afton L. Smith Mabel E. Snow Ruby F. Christiansen Ethel Fenton Relief Society Tooele Tucson Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weiser Wells West Boise West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Woodruff Yellowstone Young Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 445 443 801 446 483 604 540 320 440 A472 717 599 324 766 A497 907 502 994 838 619 535 525 788 493 377 No. 382 403 831 438 510 526 452 284 458 383 714 554 272 622 451 911 537 827 886 653 478 532 782 475 367 Pet. 86 91 104 98 106 87 84 89 104 81 100 92 84 81 Oil 100 107 83 106 105 89 101 99 96 97 Magazine Representative Jewel Halgren Belva Jones Hazel W. Stevens Stella Sadlier Mar Jean Westerfield Olive Coombs Bertha Memmott Vera Rowley Dorie N. Walton Barbara B. Green Leda M. Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Florenee Wright Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Myrtle B. Oborn Vivian Ray Ione G. Slayden Edith Baum Sarah Cromar Naomi B. Harris Alta H. Murdock Afton F. Rencher Faun G. Eves 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES * 4y LT a Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS SRECIAL PROGRAM "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" Front row, standing, left to right: Hazen Hillvard as King Benjamin; Norman Ravsten as Nephi; Einar Pederson as Alma the First; Verena Weeks as a foreign descendant; Lucille Hillyard as a Jewish descendant; Mary Loosle as a Lamanite descendant; Cherrill Charle, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Charles Jensen as Moroni; Keith Jorgenson as Alma the Second; Ray Jorgenson as Mormon; Elva Ravsten, stake theology class leader. Vera R. Cantwell. President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports that all the women of the stake were invited to this special program. The congregation sang "To Nephi Seer of Olden Time," and the prayer was offered by Alta C. Allen, former stake Relief Society president. Musical numbers were presented by the Newton and Clarkston Wards Singing Mothers, with Hene Barker conducting and Nola Jenkins at the piano. Benediction was by Anne M. Farr, a former stake Relief Society president. A beautiful display of the year's accomplishments was arranged by Venna Johnson and Wilma Cooley. Quilts, crocheting, copper work, artificial flowers, dish towels. And all manner of handwork were included in the attractive display. Refreshments were served by stake board members Florence Rigby, Selena Law, Jean Rovlance, Burdetta Harris, and Roma Law. Page 333 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Photograph submitted by Ora C. Mason NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 9, 1958 Seated at the left in the front row, left to right: Ora C. Mason, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society; Bernice R. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Beth Bastian, organist. Standing at the right: Wilma Sorenson, chorister. The men in the back row, from left to right, are: Elder Emmest Bastian, High Councilman; members of the former stake presidency: Blaine C. Curtis; Dale H. Peterson; G. Glen Taylor. Photograph submitted by Luella T. Wilson KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 25, 1958 Stake Board members and visitors seated in the front row, left to right: Ruby Christensen, literature class leader; Nellie Brown, theology class leader; Senate Mendenhall, visiting teacher message leader; Eva Bird, social science class leader, Hilda Cherrington, Magazine representative; Ethel Jensen, Second Counselor; Luella 'T. Wilson, President; Lydia Thorn, First Counselor; Zelma Beardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Winniefred SI Manwaring, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society; Lora Whiting, former second counselor, Kolob Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 385 } Photograph submitted by Anna Wright SOUTH BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 9, 1958 Leola Horrocks, chorister, is standing in front of the organ; Beth Hoopes, organist, is seated at the organ. Anna Wright, President, South Blackfoot Stake Relief Society, reports that this chorus furnished the music for both sessions of the stake quarterly conference. There were ninety-five singers in the group. They also presented a lovely program at the December Relief Society union meeting. There are nine wards in South Blackfoot Stake. Photograph submitted by Jennie S. Bowman MEXICAN MISSION, AMERICAN BRANCH (MEXICO CITY) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: First Counselor Marvlin Croshaw Haycock; President Lois Ipson Green; Second Counselor Erma Disney 'Tyler. Sister Bowman reports that a new American Branch Relief Socicty was organized July 5, 1957, and now has nine members, with usually some visitors from the United States attending the meetings. Jennie S. Bowman is president of the Mexican Mission Relief Society. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 * ES eS g S aT BS FS Photograph submitted by Ruth W. Palmer FLAGSTAFF STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED MORE THAN TWENTY-FIVE YEARS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, December 7, 1957 Front row, standing, left to mght: Emma Price; Martha Thomas; Rosetta Scott; Josephine 'Thompson; Eva Dietsman; Eliza Scott; Hazel Johnson; Amy Brown. Back row, standing, left to right: Mabel Hatch; May Shumway; Wilma Robinson; Zina Yates; Theresa Scott; Rilla Allen; Roberta Tanner; Grace Castleberrv; Zella Lee; Myrtle Ray. Ruth W. Palmer, President, Flagstaff Stake Relief Society, reports that special recognition was given Sister Rosetta Scott who has served more than sixty years as a visiting teacher. All visiting teachers who attended were presented with a book of special tributes and gems for visiting teachers. Photograph submitted by Laura M. Wilkin OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH), MAGNA FIRST WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT CHRISTMAS PROGRAM, December 22, 1957 Seated, in front, left to right: Pauline Larsen, accompanist; Noreen Chapman. First row, standing, left to right: Cleo Hales; Della Kone; Ida Beckstead; Althea 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Photograph submitted by Catherine Child LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 19, 1958 Standing in the front row, at the extreme rght, is chorister Iola Belnap Murray. Organist Louise Davenport was absent when this picture was taken. Catherine Child, President, Lake View Stake Relief Society, reports that the chorus sang in both sessions of the stake quarterly conference and one of the six numbers presented was "Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend," by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Janet Maughan SAN LUIS OBISPO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LOMPOC WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Front row, seated, left to right: Genive Rich; Shirley Staffenson, Second Counselor; Patricia Westerlund; Lorraine Carr, organist; Edith Swonger, Secretary; Barbara Sanchez; Nydia Hansen; Thelma Lewis, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Celia Staffenson, chorister; Marilyn Spence; Faye Swonger; Lora Jackson; Sadie Burt, President; Mary Christensen. Janet Maughan, President, San Luis Obispo Stake Relief Society, reports that this group is a part of the stake Singing Mothers chorus. The picture was taken in the Relief Society room, shortly after the decorating was completed. "The room is beautiful and is certainly a monument to the Relief Society organization." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Photograph submitted by Beryl W. Warner SAN MATEO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) NEW RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY REPRESENTS FIFTY-EIGHT YEARS OF EXPERIENCE In front, left to right: President Beryl W. Warner; Secretary Inez V. Suhlsen. Mt the back: Seaond Counselor Naomi B. Bodily; First Counselor Thelma G. Howard. These officers represent fifty-eight years of Relief Society service previous to their present position, and each has served as the first president of a newly organized Relief Socicty: Sister Warner was the first president of the San Carlos Ward Relicf Society; Sister Suhlscn was first president of the Redwood City Relief Society; Sister Bodily was first president of the Castro Valley Ward Relief Society; Sister Howard served as president in the newly divided Redwood City Ward Relief Society. Other members of the stake board are: Alta Johnson, stake chorister; Harriet Zeitschel Magazine rcprescntative; Dorothy Peterson visiting teacher message leader; Cora Burmester, theology Iecader; Leeta Squire, literature le mai, Phoebe Paine, social science leader; Marcell Wea er, work meeting leader. -———e A Mother s Way Iris W. Schow She laid her body like a wall To shield her little one from harm; She made a cover of her heart And her cupped hands to keep him warm. Her footprints marked the narrow way His feet might follow to his goal; And for the nurture of his mind She spread a feast from her own soul. 340 Organ Collections for the Church and Home.. AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.00.. CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser.. 1.50.. DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM—Asper -.------- 2.50.. EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES—Nolte 1.50.. FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3— Lorenz 22 222eeceeeeeeeeeeeeea. 1.50.. ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75.. ORGAN VISTAS—Presser 1.50 -- ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner ea. 3.50 -. REED ORGAN PLAYER— OT LS) 1.00.. REED ORGAN SELECTIONS— OC 1.00.. 70 SOLOS FOR HAMMOND OR REED ORGAN ___ 1.25.. 33 FAVORITE SOLOS FOR CHURCH AND GENERAL USE 1.50 The above organ collections are a very small part of our organ stock. We carry a large stock of books for every make of organ. Try us for your musical needs. Music Sent on Approval 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Cl On Approval C Charge C] Money Enclosed | Daynes Mice | TTT TTT 15 E. Ist South Use this advertisement as your order blank 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Elizabeth's Children (Continued from page 322) nothing pressing, could I take off again for a little while?" "You've certainly earned a bonus trip," he agreed. "That magnificent job you've just done! Where will you go?" She smiled at that. "As if you didn't know the only place that holds any interest for me!" "But your sister's children don't need you this time, I suppose. It must be." "Tm thinking of myself this time, Brent. I'm tired." "Tm sorry, Carol. A good time." "Thanks, Brent." She hesitated, then said doubtfully, "Why don't you take a vacation, too? You look as weary as I feel. And everything's slowed down in this heat. Anyway, that young assistant of yours — my competition — Lew Zane, can handle everything." Brent looked at her shrewdly. "I might just do that, Carol. Where would you suggest I go for a rest?" "Why not Wyoming? Jacksons Hole? It's the most restful place I've ever found. 'There's a wonderful dude ranch not far from Fred's. There are fishing and hunting and camping, lakes and rivers, mountains —it has everything! And you could join us on our excursions. Fred knows every interesting spot within miles, and Tony has all sorts of equipment." Carol saw the man's look change. It had been intently reflective, as if visioning a tranquil, happy world. Now, in an instant, it was shuttered, withdrawn. "No, thank you, Carol. I don't Go and have ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN imagine I'd enjoy that. I think I'll betake myself to San Francisco. That's a town where a man can have a real vacation — boating, deep sea diving — and the best food on earth." "Yes," Carol agreed, "it's one of my favorite cities. Well, then, have a good time, Brent. We'll probably both feel more like tackling the winter when we get back." On her way to her studio apartment, Carol was thinking that she should call Fred and tell him she was coming. He would certainly let Tony know. The pavement, heated by the pounding rays of the midsummer sun, scorched the soles of her feet through her thin summer shoes. She sighed. It would be good to get away. Maybe San Francisco would have been fun for her, too, but Brent hadn't suggested that she go there. But Wyoming had attractions the coast city lacked. Elizabeth's children would be waiting for her. It was less than four months since she had seen them, but already her arms ached for the feel of their sturdy young bodies. Now she would see them again, talk to them, hold them close. And, no matter how much Dolly Graham might have taken over their lives, she would know the joy of being near her loved ones again. (To be continued) > Canyon Word Pansye H. Powell Peace Is a canyon word Taught to the tired soul By pines and aspens whispering At dusk. 341 LONDON romper Tours $698 00 up Air Polar Route Write: KEITH GUDMUNDSON L. D. S. Tours 327 East Manchester Blvd. Inglewood 1, California SALT LAKE CITY Telephone DA 2-1129 LOS ANGELES Telephone OR 8-2913 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! A —=x New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Pure Vermont Maple Syrup Vermont Grade A Gal. $8.95 1% Gal. $5.25 Qt. $3.25 Pint $1.90 ALL SHIPMENTS POSTPAID Graham A. Clark P. O. Box 449 Brattleboro, Vermont R BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0.000. 35 150 to 300 miles — 22 39 300 to 600 miles 2.000.200..45 600 to 1000 miles 2.0..22002...54 1000 to 1400 miles 00.00000.64 1400 to 1800 miles -0000000000002.76 Over 1800 miles — 00.0 02 e.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret Ne ws Press chord St Stat iy ute MD) Page 342 Mlother $ al otters Emma Ann Bigelow We used to get a letter Every day or two. She'd talk about the weather, How she loved the view Of the valley From the front porch After rain. Little things that pleased her, Like the rose beside the door, The inner satisfaction Of a well-scrubbed kitchen floor. A cookie for a neighbor child, A visit to a friend, A better way for making bread— These were the words she'd send. Remembered words—encouraging and dear; Of love and understanding, confidence and cheer. Remembered deeds—the night we climbed the hill And watched the great full harvest moon The earth with splendor fill. Hard work well done, A joy shared, Faith unshakeable. And though she's gone, I still receive, In some sweet way, A letter from my Mother Every day. Ae — Si endrils Leslie Savage Clark With tendrils, sensitive and frail As a morning glory vine That needs to cling to greater strength, A child's small heart may twine Its yearnings round another's life. There, sunned, its flowers expand— So brief, so vulnerable to frost Or clumsy hand. Papa and His Grapes (Continued from page 303) "Move to one side, please," her father admonished Jamie. He dragged forth the paper bag of grapes. "They're already washed,' he went on, stretching out his hands with the open bag toward Jamie. "I always say there isn't anything quite as tasty as a grape." "They're my favorite after-dinner fruit, too,' Jamie agreed. And he helped himself to a double handful. Then he turned back to her mother. "As I was saying," he went on, "there isn't anything I believe in more than in people being themselves." There in the doorway, for the first time, a shamed Celia was convinced of it, too. —o-. God s Gift to Ile Bernice D. Savage God gave to us the sunshine And the roses sweet with dew; He gave to us the twilight And he gave the rainbow's hue, The golden dawn of morning That brings to us our day; And the afterglow of evening As we see the sun's last ray. But he gave a greater beauty When he gave a mother's love, For it finds its source in heaven And it lifts our souls above; And though I love the beauty Of the sun and land and sea, Yet motherhood is the choicest gift That God has given to me. Margaret Lund Tours Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17 on the S. S. LEILANI, and returns by plane, July 5. Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at HILL CUMORAH; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City Aug. 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. European Tour Leaves Aug. 18, 1958. Will visit London and Berne, Switzerland, Temples. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23 East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 — AM 2-2337 — CR 7-6334 COOKING ELECTRICALLY brings better food with a less work e R Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. VIDA FOX CLAWSON Birthday Congratulations 966 Eost South Temple Selt Lok ty, Utok — Home Bry One Hundred R@ LONDON TEMPLE DEDIMas. Jutta Canotixe Beat Bure saa ac Proso. Utah Ninety-seven Mas. Carneaine Pesxes Harris HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT cmmere Tiere Mizs. Nancy Foaxan Hocks \fon a. Utah Mas. EcizaseTe Ja Jase Terry Bram Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five VIDA FOX 'CLAWSON Mas. EL~ as Sow ssex Haseqonp } The Bert im the West Trowel With Us Idaho 966 East South Temple Selt Loke Cit, Utoh Ninety-three Phone: EM 4-2017. Je INE 'Ds CRERSON W Est THE WORLD'S FINEST Pleasant Grove, PIANOS Mason & Hamlin, Tire Se-oe ras} € St-odvvori of Prone: Ninety-one \Vle< = —_ EVERETT Bascar, Us Finest Toned Srinet Bait? Mas. Anxa Mar Atteep Oxspen R T alii l Beaver. Utah Cable-Nelson Mas. Atece Aww Hitt Carros Fimest Low Priced Pione Bsilt Lavion,: We specialize e4au in all music. — Mas. Nancy E. Henpaices Sutta jor Mesa. Arona Relief Sc ciety Mars. Bonet Carr we Hansen JENSEN Gale Take Ciw ft Mas. Lectnoa Baower Bate 6 Richmond, Utah Beesley Musi¢ ('0 Meas. Sazag Marrre ALEXANDER. 4 UVe Oxawatomue. Kansas; 4 an H. BALLANTYNE Pioneer Piomo People Oeden. Utah 70S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mas. Witnetwoma GC. Price McCammon, Idaho Your Part in the Fabulous Years Ahead" Leadership Week-June 23-28, 1958 Special Relief Society Helps Intensive Genealogy Courses "Helps" For L. D. S. Auxiliary Organization Workers Special Cultural and Religious Programs Over 500 Offerings in Many Fields @ Registration Fee: $2.00 for the Entire Week CLIP AND MAIL To: LEADERSHIP WEEK Adult Education and Extension Services Room 220, SSC Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah (Mr.) (Miss) (Mres.) Last Name ADDRESS Street Lj Enclosed $2.00 Registration Send Free Leadership Week Bulletin Make Checks payable to B. Y. U. Extension Services A new book by a beloved leader Che Candle of the Lord DR. ADAM S. BENNION A beloved Apostle, who brought to thousands faith and inspiration through his actions and deeds, speaks again on themes nearest and dearest to his heart: the spiritual life, love of country, youth, and the noble potentialities of man. Each page of this book reveals the gifted, friendly spirit of Adam S. Bennion—his dynamic personality that sparked the personalities of others to noble action, $3.75 For beginner or expert.. 2 The Genealogical Reader NOEL C. STEVENSON Choice selections by top authorities on genealogical research are compiled together in this one handy volume. Many points-of-view are represented, and various methods of research offered. If you are beginner or veteran genealogist, you will certainly want to own this book. ' a == IT DESERET BOOK COMPANY l | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: | | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( )! Have an _ account. | | Please charge. Amount enclosed $ 0.00.. Cc: cccccccecceeeeeeeseeseeetereeeeee-. For encircled (numbered) | books: 1 l Name ooonn. Seen ceeeeccceeee eeeee | |, eee j | Cl Zone -.-.. RS) - | (re | j Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax.
