Miracle of Giving Ruth Harwood 860

ZCMI'S OWN Ours and yours exclusively! Created and designed by famous Madame Alexander especially for you! A Beautiful Doll Masterpiece A charming replica of ZCMI's Story Princess. She has dark, radiant hair, sparkling blue eyes fringed with long, silky lashes. Made of smooth, durable plastic, she is dressed just like the Story Princess in a darling long white gown, satin waist, rayon slip and panties, white shoes and stockings. And in her hand is a little gold wand; on her head a crown of flowers. Fourteen inches tall, she comes in a handsome gold gift box. EXCLUSIVE AT... ZCMI TOY DEPT.... Third Floor

MADONNA GRANDUCA A Perry Picture From a Painting by Raphael (1483-1520)

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEVOL. 35, NO. 12 DECEMBER 1948 THE CHRISTMAS DREAM Christie Lund Coles Again the windowpane wears hieroglyphs of frost, And the fireplace glows with a crimson tongue; The velvet whiteness of the snow is glossed With flecks of ice like crystal mirrors strung Upon the counterpane of earth; once more The air reverberates with each glad voice, While wreaths of holly decorate the door Opening to all who worship and rejoice. The Christmas dream of peace on earth, good will, Seems near attainment on this holy night, For every heart becomes a citadel Reaching in faith toward the star's pure light. And love is whispering... Believe... Believe... Around the whole wide world this Christmas Eve.

The Cover: 'Winter Hills," Photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam.