[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 684 | General Feature | Reflections Le/7a Grace Bassford | Lesson Department]
[Reflections Le/7a Grace Bassford Lesson Department]

Save the seed of your favorite annuals—zinnias, marigolds, and asters. Place the seeds of each flower in a separate envelope and write on the envelope the name and color of the flower. This autumn activity can save time and money— perhaps provide an unusual gift for a friend. ~S An experimental gardener may explore a lovely, flowerbordered path of interesting surprises by planting seeds in the fall, keeping in mind, of course, the requirements of the climate in your area. Flowers which scatter their own "volunteer" seeds, such as snapdragons and_ sunflowers, could have an experimental planting made in late. Summer or autumn. Pansies planted in the late summer or early fall break into radiant bloom in springtime sunshine, and primroses can do some rapid growing in the three months of autumn. Cosmos are abundant "seeders," and once you have a cosmos "patch" there will be forever in your garden the fragile beauty of long stems, feather foliage, and the indescribable satin of cosmos blossoms. Some varieties of larkspur, and many petunias decide for themselves where they want to be, and many gardeners learn from such floral "accidents" which seeds may be planted in the fall in the areas of their own outdoor environment. Gardening is a_ hobby having multiple rewards— beauty, outdoor enjoyment, a forgetting of worldwide and personal problems in the variable kingdom of the flowers where nature makes the rules and the gardener learns compliance and discovery—learns the ways of autumn and the compensating seasons—spring and summer. Reflections Leila Grace Bassford TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Poplars, Mount Timpanogos, Utah, in background. What beautiful pictures reflections make! Anyone can achieve a greater appreciation for form and color by observing their repeated signatures in nature and in art. The tiniest pool of rainwater may reflect trees and sky, just as the largest lake may. Even the raindrop may reflect a rainbow! The photographer is always charmed and beguiled by reflections. He delights in photographing a clear, unrippled lake, with the mountain that towers above it, the clouds drifting overhead, and the trees and flowers that fringe its borders, faithfully reproduced upon its smooth expanse. Even when a wandering breeze stitches neat shallow ruffles upon its surface, this does not conceal the color and sparkle in the reflection that he sees in the onginal, nor diminish his enthusiasm for making pictures Mount Moran and Jackson Lake, Wyoming. Pond in Millcreek Canyon, Utah of it. Around such places as a boat dock, or in a quiet section of a bay, with the gentle lapping of waves, it is a delight to photograph the reflections that are an integral part of the scene. The universe teems with natural wonders. Reflections are but a small fraction of them. Nevertheless, it can become enjoyable and exciting to watch for and detect these shimmering duplicate images, and the smaller and less obvious they are, the more exciting the game. And this simple pastime costs nothing, trains the eye, and enhances our delight in the infinitude of beauties nature has lavished upon our world. Red Rock Crossing, Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona Santa Fe Springs Second Ward (Spanish) Norwalk Stake, California Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society Left to right: Patricia Rebulcara and Luisa Espinosa, representing North America; Elviera Rebulcara and Juanita Villanueva, representing Mexico; Delia Guinaldo and Carmela Valentich, representing Argentina. The Spanish sisters enjoyed a dinner and a special drama written by Carmela Valentich. Six sisters demonstrated the sisterhood of Relief Society and the blessings that come from the same faith and the same teachings for the Relief Society women every where. Nagoya Branch, Japan Central Mission Relief Society Home Nursing Program Chieko Okazaki, Supervisor, Japan Central Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters in the home nursing program are receiving much important information and are taking part in demonstrations of nursing skills. The program, initiated in June in the Nagoya and Kobe Branches, is being extended to branches in the Osaka area.