[Editorial: "Therewith to Be Content" by Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL Are the stressful conditions which Latter-day Saints are now experiencing worse than those of Paul?
Should not each Latter-day Saint, forewarned of conditions to exist in the world in the last days, strive to attain to the contentment of which Paul spoke? "For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content."
What an acknowledgment and full acceptance of the wisdom of God is expressed in that sentence! It is a re-echoing of the spirit of the Master when he prayed, "Not my will but thine be done." 'To know the principles of the gospel and to live by them, realizing that the Lord's loving care surrounds 253 one at all times and in all situations, and in all parts of the world, brings contentment to the soul. It is a perfect attitude for a Latterday Saint to acquire, one which will be a source of inspiration to others and an abiding source of joy and contentment to the possessor.
Mothers who instil this spirit into their sons who leave home will give them a priceless possession.
Their footsteps will be placed on the path along which Paul toiled.
They will grasp every opportunity to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ by their exemplary lives as well as by their spoken word.
Thus a seeming misfortune may turn to a glorious outcome. —M. C. S. April Flour Leone E. McCune As fragile as a vase of windblown glass, Unreal as all the lovely dreams that pass, As haunting as some half-forgotten tune, Enchanting as a scarlet rose in June, ' An unnamed wish, a piercing, sweet desire, Soft, gold-green days, rain strumming on the lyre; Ethereal the magic of this hour, Brief interlude between the bud and flower. G arden Riches Jeanette P. Parry I sowed snapdragon seeds today Beside the garden walk, And visioned miracles in May Upon each graceful stalk.
Such delicate black seeds to hold Rich velvet colors, fold on fold, Rare fragrance for my garden space,
And riches for my tall, blue vase.
1 1 tirade
Marian Schroder Crothers
He plowed the land;
The warm earth lay in brown furrows
In suppliant waiting.
From work-worn hands he scattered
Back into the ground
The seeds from last year's crop.
Then patiently, he waited for The miracle of growth again.

1 1 teals of (cJur cfime
Sara MiUs
In this year of 1951 housewives are particularly interested in preparing thrifty, attractive, and nutritious meals. The following menus are relatively inexpensive, they have an appetizing appearance, and provide vitamins, minerals, and calories.
MENU ONE
Spanish beans
Tossed green salad with avocado
Hot corn bread or French bread
Apple pie or fresh fruit and cheese
Hot chocolate or fruit punch
This menu is an inspired one for an outdoor gathering of friends or family, and it tastes just as good indoors any season.
Spanish Beans
4 c. red kidney beans 2 cloves garlic, minced
1 small ham hock 2 small cans tomato hot sauce
2 onions sliced 2-3 tsp. chili powder
1 large bell pepper salt to taste
Wash the beans and soak them overnight in two quarts of warm water. Heat in the same water until the water boils. Drain off the water and add all the other ingredients, with enough fresh water for simmering. Let simmer gently for several hours until the beans are very tender. Shortly before the beans are to be served, remove the ham hock and any surface fat. Shred the ham and return it to the beans. For variation, place the beans in a casserole, sprinkle with your favorite grated cheese, and place in the oven until the cheese bubbles.
MENU TWO
Chicken tamale
Fresh summer squash or other green vegetable
Tossed green salad
Dinner rolls
Fresh fruit compote
This recipe came to me from a farm wife. It will serve a goodly number and is particularly appropriate for a potluck supper. If children are to be served, the amount of red pepper and chili powder should be reduced
Chicken Tamale
1 large chicken, cooked until tender
1 quart chicken broth
1 c. corn meal
1 tbsp. chili powder
1 tbsp. butter salt to taste
Add the corn meal, chili powder, butter, and salt to the broth and steam in a double boiler about one hour. While this mixture is steaming proceed with the sauce.
Sauce for Chicken Tamale
Vi c. butter or cooking oil
1 onion, sliced thin
2 cloves garlic
Vz c. flour
1 can tomatoes (size ixA )
1
V:
1
4
1 tbsp. chili powder i tsp. cayenne pepper small can sliced, ripe olives hard-boiled eggs, chopped can corn
Page 254

MEALS OF OUR TIME
255
GJently saute the sliced onion and garlic in the butter and add the flour to make a paste. Add tomatoes, chili powder, red pepper, olives, eggs, and corn. Lay the chicken in pieces in a roaster or large baking pan. Pour the sauce over the chicken and bake about one hour at 3000 F.
MENU THREE
Chicken tomato soup (thick)
Pear and cheese salad
Oven-toasted bread with butter
Cake or pudding
Chicken Tomato Soup
Place chicken neck, gizzard, wings, back, and other bones in a large soup kettle, cover with cold water, and let stand for one hour. Bring chicken to a boil and remove scum. Then add the following ingredients:
6 peppercorns
6 sprigs parsley
1 stalk celery
1 carrot
1 bay leaf
1 pinch rosemary salt to taste
Cover kettle and simmer mixture slowly until chicken is very tender. Remove chicken parts and vegetables and strain. Bring the stock to a boil and add lA c. brown rice.
While rice is cooking in the soup, saute in 2 tbsp. butter, the following ingredients:
1 carrot, diced
1 c. celery, diced
1 potato, diced
2 tbsp. chopped onion
Saute for about 7 minutes, stirring gently, then add 1 tbsp. flour and stir until the flour is absorbed. When the rice in the soup is nearly done, add the sauted vegetables and cook until the vegetables are barely tender. Then add 1 can condensed tomato soup and a scant cup of finely cut spinach or young chard. Let the soup boil gently for two or three minutes and serve at once, preferably with grated Parmesan cheese.
MENU FOUR
Potato chips and tuna casserole
Hot muffins
Fresh peas
Shredded cabbage and carrot salad, with nuts
Fruit pie or peach cobbler
Potato Chips and Tuna Casserole large package potato chips large can shredded tuna can condensed mushroom soup cup whole milk c. chopped celery
V% c. chopped green peppers
% c. chopped parsley
% c. grated onion salt pepper
In a lightly buttered casserole dish, lay 1/3 of the potato chips, crushed. Add a layer of minced tuna, then a layer of celery, green peppers, and parsley. On this layer sprinkle some grated onion with a light hand. Now add a layer of mushroom soup mixed with the milk. Make, in all, two layers of tuna, soup, and vegetables, and three layers of potato chips. Add salt and pepper to taste, and bake in moderate oven until the vegetables are thoroughly tender, about 45 minutes.

Ray Loom is Page 256
HOLLYHOCKS

Gardens in Pattern
Eva. Willes Wangsgaard
"A garden is a lyric Man may write in seed . . ."
GARDEN colors, like all colors, are most effective when displayed in a pattern, and the simpler the pattern the more effective.
Mexican Sash Garden
A design my neighbor uses every year is as colorful as a Mexican sash and more dependable than summer sunshine. It is a long, narrow garden about four feet deep and extending the length of the front porch, about twenty-six feet.
First he fertilizes and pulverizes the soil, then in a row next to the foundation go the dahlias, the great towering species that send out enormous blooms beginning in July.
He mixes these colors, but the great bronze beauties dominate. Sixteen inches in front of the dahlias he plants a row of giant African marigolds, then fourteen inches in front of the marigolds goes a line of the new chrysanthemum-like, lemonyellow marigolds followed by a row of zinnias. He finishes with a border of tiny marigolds or dwarf zinnias which also border the lawn and tie the whole front yard into a dashing picture that stays bright from July until frost. Many cut bouquets also come from this simple garden on the south front of his home.
Circular Garden
Another neighbor has a corner curb and a circular garden spot on his back lawn made glorious by Cannas. A small circular garden can be created within an old wagon tire, a larger one can be bordered by rocks, as is my neighbor's. The circle is filled with Canna bulbs in scarlet with a border of sage-green foliage. Cannas also come in pinks and yellows and make beautiful pictures with a border of Blue
Cap Ageratum, Little Gem Sweet
Alyssum, or violas in white, yellow, or purple. The Canna stalk yields a triple bud which sends out three sets of blooms a season in succession, so that a continuous display results over a period of more than two months.
Shade-Loving Flowers
If you have a shaded spot the Canterbury bells will love it and reward you with a mass of bloom.
However, these are biennials and bloom late in the season when started from seed and reach their height of bloom the second season.
The best effect is obtained early by using plants instead of waiting for seed growth. But once started they yield yearly bloom, as they seed themselves and can be transplanted for pattern. During the blooming season their pyramid of bells is a thrilling sight.
Another shade-loving flower, and much more glamorous, even exotic, is the tuberous begonia. These luxurious blooms are best secured by buying the bulbs already started by the nurserymen and the florists, as the further along they are at plant-
Page 257

258
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1951
Don Knight
TUBEROUS-ROOTED BEGONIAS ing time the sooner the blooms begin to decorate your garden. They need a little tempered sunlight, very, very rich loam, about one-third sandy loam, one- third barnyard manure, and one-third peat moss, along with plenty of water, including fine daily spraying of the plants themselves. Their exquisite blooms are a continuous delight till frost interrupts. Their color range is wide and can be used singly or variegated.
They make marvelous show pieces, floating cut-arrangements, and house plants when the outdoor season is over.
Gladioli and Asters
A summer without gladioli is like a spring without lilacs. They come in such a wide variety of colors that one can plant them in the background of lower-growing plants for color effects, or in clumps around shrubs for naturalizing, or in circles or rows in a garden spot all their own. You can hardly make a mistake on gladioli, but they do require a gardener's eye for thrips, and frequent spraying. Also, it is a good idea to fumigate the soil with one of the commercial fumigating compounds before planting gladioli.
As autumn and asters are inseparable so spring is the time to make sure of them. Such a range of color and variety are offered the gardener that it is harder to hold back than to buy them. One wants them all. But here again restraint pays. A great bed of asters can be obtained from seed planted directly in the garden and thinned later or planted in seed beds and trans-

GARDENS IN PATTERN
259 planted to a permanent home. The effect is better if the colors are arranged in schemes and kept down to two colors and a white. Such a generous supply of cut bouquets is assured from an aster bed!
Iris for Variety and Beauty
The once scorned "flag" has become the aristocratic iris and is now welcome and sought after in any garden and well worth the cultivating. If water is a problem in your garden, the iris is your friend. It blooms early in the summer or late spring on stored winter moisture and requires the minimum of irrigating when the blooming season is over. Such voluptuousness! Such grace! Such delight! And such variety! Every year there are fabulous new varieties introduced to tempt the eye and the purse. Many of the varieties that have been out a few years have unsurpassed beauty
Don Knight
IRIS Josef Muench
JAPANESE IRIS and can be bought at a nominal price, while the newer varieties are collectors' items and priced accordingly.

The Mohr varieties (Elmohr, Grace Mohr, Wm. Mohr, and Or Mohr) are marvelous for colossal size and ruffled luxury in varying tones of lavenders, and there are such beautiful tones of golden yellows to contrast with them in your garden and in your cut-flower arrangements. But irises come in many colors, including reds, blues, and the iciest of whites, all in large, ruffled, showy flowers.

You will want an acre of ground to grow irises, and you will need it if you don't use restraint in buying the rhizomes as they multiply rather rapidly. The best way to choose irises is to visit a garden in bloom and note the names of the varieties, then order them by name. They are usually planted in the early fall but may be transplanted in the spring, and again just after the blooming season.

Another delightful member of the iris family is the Dutch iris, that delightful orchid-like variety that the florist puts into springtime corsages. The color range is wide, and Dutch iris plants are hardy if not planted in too exposed a position in a very frosty climate. In northern regions a south-of-a-building location suits them well.

Lilies for Exquisite Dignity

And lilies! Such lilies as a gardener can grow for herself in these modern gardens! The improved regals that grow ten feet tall and bear up to two dozen great white star-tipped bells with pale green or blush-pink throats, are easily grown. These like deep planting in moist sandy loam with partial shade and then to be let alone. Lilies hate being disturbed and will reward you amply for privacy. Their little sister, the Madonna, is a hardy and prolific beauty and not too choosy about soil conditions.

In front of the giant regal lilies may be grown the graceful and colorful tiger lilies, and in front of these and sunward, the elegans and centrifolium (Easter lilies) will produce a lovely effect. The lily you had at Easter can be tucked into the soil as soon as the bloom is gone, but