[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon State in Washington, printed in Russian, and circulated behind the "Curtain." The purpose is to show Russians the American way of life.
This unusual group has also been featured in This Week, in National Dance Magazine, and in a movie made by the Swedish Film Corporation. Mess JUNE BARLOW, lovely blonde of Bountiful and "Miss Utah" for 1949, is now serving the Church as a missionary in England. RS. ELLEN ASH PETERSON, ninety-six, of Logan, Utah, cares for herself, crochets babies' bootees by the hundreds, and writes her own checks and birthday cards. She emigrated from England, and was a member of the first handcart company to cross the plains in 1856. At eighteen, Elizabeth Bryan of Salt Lake City won the grand prize in the "Make-It-YourselfWith-Wool" national sewing contest. She is now enrolled at the Traphagen School of Fashion Design in New York, a year's tuition at that school being a part of her grand prize award. N Branches Over the Wall, recently off the press, well-known Utah author, Ora Pate Stewart, retells with clarity, easy-to-follow continuity, and great condensation, the story contained in the Book of Mormon. ] CQ EDITORIAL 9 

VOL.
 'Sherewith to Be Content" HEN conditions in the world or in one's personal life become a cause of anxiety and worry, there are always paths open for receiving needed strength and increased faith. One of these paths is prayer to the all-wise and loving Heavenly Father, and another path is to study the words given by the Father to his children. Through prayerful reading of the trials and tribulations experienced *by servants of the Lord in all ages of the world, and how they continued "to stand fast in the Lord." one receives a renewed determination not to become disheartened because of his own cares and sorrows. In the revelation to Emma Smith, the Lord commanded, " Thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better" (D. & C. 25:10). Studying the scriptures is of incalculable help in obeying this commandment. The words of one inspired writer will seem to carry a special message to one person, while those of another will heal another's wounds. It remains for every Latter-day Saint to search all the scriptures, and take to himself that which will most comfort and apply to him in a particular situation. Today men and boys are being taken from their homes and sent to many parts of the world. Now one may read of the far-flung missionary journeys of the apostle Paul  with heightened appreciation and deepened import. Pondering upon Paul's words one realizes that he carried on in spite of sickness and "a thorn in the flesh"; in addition to his heavy missionary duties he, at times of necessity, worked at his trade of tentmaker. As one reads of his loneliness and fears and trembling, one feels drawn nearer in spirit, to this great man. He went through grave persecutions; he was stoned; he was scourged; he was chained to guards in a dread dungeon; yet, in the midst of years of such treatment he penned inspiring and comforting letters to his beloved saints. One to the Philippians he wrote while still in bonds at Rome. Though written particularly to his friends in that city, they are also to all living today who will heed his words. One sentence carries a great message for today: "For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content" (Phil. 4:11). Paul had "learned" in a harsh, even in a cruel school. The "state" wherein he found himself innumerable times was one of physical pain or spiritual anguish. For periods of time the only persons to whom he could pour out his testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ were his gaolers. Yet he accepted those things which he had to undergo in a spirit of contentment, placing utter trust in the Lord.