[April by Beatrice K. Ekman]

APRIL 1951
Living Water (John 4:8-42) Alberta H. Christensen She had come, no doubt, innumerable times before, Threading the rocky, dust-white path that led To the wayside well of Jacob, near to the land Parcelled to Joseph as a father's gift, Beloved and reverenced now for memory's sake. She had drawn from the coolness of the well's deep core Innumerable times—but in this precious hour,, This treasured sixth one of the day, A miracle had come— to her, a woman of Samaria,
Of an alien people scorned and hated as a foe.
He was of Galilee— that Stranger— with a voice
Gentle as shadows when the dusk is warm
Upon the ancient peaks of Gerizim,
His eyes more kind than sunlight on the mountain rim;
Though his discernment, sharp and saber-swift,
Had opened the covered seasons to lay bare
Her veiled and unvoiced past. A prophet surely!
"I know Messias cometh," she had said.
And he had answered, "I that speak ... am he."
How eagerness outran her sandaled feet
To Sychar swiftly; others too must know
Of everlasting life, of living water-
That they who drink thereof shall thirst no more.
Though all the doubting world might be deceived,
Truth was in his word— and she believed.
The Cover: Calla Lilies, Photograph by Josef Muench
Cover Design by Evan Jensen.

PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH
Congratulations to [President t^eorge iSClvert Smith on diis sbightu-QJirst [Birthday
T^HIS year, on April 4th, President George Albert Smith reaches his eighty-first birthday. At this time members of the Church throughout the world and many other friends and associates of President Smith extend to him their greetings and best wishes. Our beloved President is remembered in the prayers of Relief Society women everywhere, and we rejoice that his life has been spared to give us comfort and inspiration and the spiritual leadership which guides us to the eternal principles of love and service.
It is a great blessing that in this time when confusion and uncertainty have dimmed the forces of hope and high achievement in so much of the world and among so many people, that we have been given a Prophet whose personality and whose desires express love and tolerance and kindness— a breadth of sympathy and a voice of guidance like unto those qualities exemplified by the apostles and prophets of old. May we, as women of the Church, continue to join in the thoughts expressed in the familiar hymn. . . . "We ever pray for thee, our Prophet dear, that God will give to thee, comfort and cheer. . . ."
Page 220

"Meet Together Often"
The Historic Conferences of the Church Have Been Interesting and Inspiring Occasions
Preston Nibley
THE annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held on Temple Square in Unable to locate the corresponding article text in the provided PDF pages. The extracted text appears to be from a different article than what the filename suggests.