[Jane Bybee Coltrin Makes Quilt Tops as a Hobby]

JANE BYBEE COLTRIN MAKES QUILT TOPS AS A HOBBY Dunc the 1948-49 season, Jane Bybee Coltrin, seventy-four, pieced eighteen beautiful quilt tops for the Boise, Idaho, Third Ward Relief Society.
Many of - the patterns were unusual, and all of them were exquisitely stitched. Sister Coltrin has been a Relief Society worker for many years, having served as president of the Hazel Ward Relief Society, Boise Second Ward Relief Society, as a counselor in two wards, as a work director, and as a class leader in theology, literature, and visiting teacher message leader. She has also served on the Boise Stake Relief Society Board. At present she is a member of the work meeting committee in Boise Third Ward and an active visiting teacher. She has reared nine children and has thirty-eight great-grandchildren, and is an excellent example of the old saying that a woman who already has many responsibilities' is the one to call on when you want to get something done.
Work has made Sister Coltrin a happy and a useful woman in her home circle and in Relief Society. Peach Srees in Bloom Mabel Jones Gabbott Through pastel-tinted days the peach trees blushed.
Until one rain-swept night their bloom was crushed;
I grieved for broken petals at my door; m
It was not that I loved the blossoms more
Than promised fruit beneath each greening leaf,
But that their beauty was so brief.
Page 273

From The Field
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer
All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123.
SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Amelia P. Gardner
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SAN RAFAEL BRANCH RELIEF
SOCIETY BAZAAR
Standing at the table, front, left: Neva Beckstrand and Emily Trottir.
Standing in center of picture, left to right, Secretary-Treasurer Eileen McClure and President Bertha Davis. At table extreme right, First Counselor Rachel Greenland.
Standing at table (pillowslip display) at left: Margaret Goff and Norene Deaver.
Standing at right, rear, June Monson.
At left in background: Freda Tommilinson; Mary Spencer; Cleone Marshell.
Amelia P. Gardner, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society, in describing this large and beautifully arranged bazaar, reports: 'The sisters were very proud of the bazaar. It showered down rain all day, but the spirit of the Lord was with them as they went humbly forth that morning, and they received good support from the members."
Page 274