EARLY SAINTS.

	The threats and boasting which we have
heard from the would-be demolishers of Zion's
bulwarks, and the vain attempts that they have
made to bring about this end, has often re-
minded me of a story told of a certain rich
man who built a high and powerful wall for
the protection of his estate, which was as thick
as it was high, and cemented together so that
it was impenetrable, defying all the attacks
that were made upon him, which invariably
ended in the chagrin and discomforture of his
foes. After trying many times without success
they bethought themselves that the wall might
be turned over could they find men enough to
unite in this plan. They sent far and near and
gathered up a mighty host, and the feat was
accomplished, but lo, and behold their dismay
when finding the wall still standing as high and
strong as before, shutting them away from the
coveted treasures which they had sought so hard
and so long to obtain. The would-be destroyers
of the latter day Israel might as well under-
take the task of removing these mountains, or
stopping the mouth of the volcano which has
lately opened in the Sierra Madre, pouring forth
its boiling water and vast waves of lava, and
boulders weighing tons, hurling down from the
crater, filling up the cañons, and destroying
all vegetation in the valleys in that vicinity, as
to try to impede the growth of this mighty
work, or the filling up of these valleys by the
emigration from the various nations on this
earth, and from the world of spirits which God
has declared should be, and has set His hand
to accomplish.
	We do not claim that the wisdom, knowledge,
or power of man has held together the people
called "Mormons," as the world are lead to be-
lieve, but that of the Great Master, who has
founded it upon the Rock of Ages. For the
profit of those who are inclined to doubt this,
and its being what it represents, the Zion that
was to be "established in the tops of the moun-
tains," preparatory to the second and glorious

[Column 2]

advent of the King of kings. I submit the
following from the history of the primitive
Christians during the three first centuries: The
Jews "employed the most rigorous punishment
to compel them to blaspheme and renounce
Jesus Christ. They cursed them three times a
day in their synagogues, and their rabbies
would not suffer them to converse with Chris-
tians on any occasion. Nor were they contented
to hate and detest them, but they dispatched
emissaries all over the world to defame them.
They accused them, among other things, of
worshipping the sun and the head of an ass;
they reproached them with idleness and being
a useless set of people. They charged them
with treason, and endeavoring to erect a new
monarchy against that of the Romans. They
affirmed that, in celebrating their mysteries,
they used to kill a child and eat its flesh. They
accused them of the most shocking incests, and
of intemperance in their feasts of charity. But
the lives and behavior of the first Christains
were sufficient to refute all that was said against
them, and evidently demonstrated that these
accusations were mere calumny, and the effect
of inveterate malice."
	When they were interrogated in order to
learn, "whether they were really Christians,"
they were threatened "with death if they did
not renounce this religion." And because
they "persisted in their confession" they were
lead to punishment by order of the governor of
Pontus ad Bythinia," though they declared
that "their whole crime, if they were guilty,
consisted in this: That on certain days they
assembled "before the sun rise to sing alternate-
ly the praises of Christ, as of God, and to
oblige themselves by the performance of their
religious rites, not to be guilty of theft, or
adultery; to observe inviolably their word, and
to be true to their trust." The governor to in-
form himself still farther of this matter, put
"to the torture two of their women servants."
whom they called "deaconesses;" "But," he
says, "I could learn nothing more from them
than that the superstition of this people is as
ridiculous as their attachment to it is astonish-
ing." "The purity of the Christian morality,"
which was "directly opposite to the corruption
of the Pagans, was one of the most powerful
motives of the public aversion' that was felt
towards them, and the prejudice was so strong
against them because of the calumnies that
were unjustly spread about by their enemies,
that the Pagans condemned them without in-
quiring into their doctrine, or permitting them
to defend themselves."	*	*	"But,
notwithstanding the violent opposition made to
the establishment of the Christain religion, it
gained ground daily, and very soon made sur-
prising progress in the Roman empire. In the
third century there were Christians in the
camp, in the senate and in the palace; in short,
everywhere but in the temples and theatres;
they filled the towns, the country and the
islands. Men and women of all ages and con-
ditions, and even those of the first dignities
embraced the faith; insomuch that the Pagans
complained that the revenues of their temples
were ruined. They were in such great num-
bers in the empire, that, as Tertullian expresses
it, "were they to have retired into another coun-
try, they would have left the Romans only a
frightful solitude."
	What the Latter-day Saints have received
from the hands of professed Christians for over
half a century is so similar to what was inflicted
upon them in those days, that one would sup-
pose that no intelligent believer in the Scrip-
tures could help setting them down as the only
true followers of Christ. The other sects have
no warfare with man or devil. He has no fear 
from those who deny the spirit of prophecy and
revelation, etc., and unite in persecuting those
who listen to the testimony of the Holy Ghost,
and accept God's word, who declared that

[Column 3]

"miraculous signs shall follow them that believe."
No principle or organization in this Church
ever originated in the brain of Joseph Smith,
or Brigham Young, but were revealed from on
high, and put in practice by a free, God-loving
and God-fearing people, who sought and ob-
tained a testimony for themselves from the high-
est source. And this is the secret of their will-
ingness to walk together in a newness of life,
and their anxiety to gather to the fountain
head, that they may feast more fully upon the
word of God, being no longer satisfied with the
chaff,and this is why so many,many thousands of
the various nations are flocking yearly to these
valleys. This is what enables the humble
Saint to endure so calmly and patiently the
scoffs of the world, and to be "beaten with many
stripes," and even to lay down their lives like
the ancient followers of our beloved Savior.
	In the beginning, this Church was made up
of the descendants of men and women who
were accustomed to defending themselves
against unlawful encroachments whenever or
wherever their rights were infringed upon, and
to resent the same; but the Gospel of Christ en-
ables them to subdue that feeling to a great ex-
tent, and to endure many wrongs rather than to
do wrong.
	As unlikely as it may seem to those not con-
versant with the history of those early times,
some of the very principles which the Saints
were ridiculed, scourged, and many laid down
their lives for advancing—being considered
doctrines of devils—have since been caught up
and taught in some new light, but which had
been perfectly familiar to the Latter-day Saints
from their first adoption into the faith of the
true Gospel. Among the reasons given for per-
secuting them in the beginning was that they
believed and accepted what their enemies in
their ignorance deemed a new doctrine, which
had been introduced by a poor, obscure, and
unlearned boy, and who claimed to have seen
and conversed with holy messengers, that were
sent to deliver the everlasting Gospel in its
purity, as taught by our Savior anciently. All
new revelations were considered heresies, and
in their blindness and superstition the Chris-
tians pronounced them blasphemous and pre-
posterous, the same as did the wise judges and
Pharisees in the case of the poor Nazarene,
who sprang from obscurity and practiced his
"artifice" among the low, ignorant and profane,
but whose influence at last extended to persons
of wealth and standing, won over to the faith
of this "Sabbath breaker," who dared to travel,
to pluck corn on that day. and even to help up
the ox that had fallen into a ditch, and had
broken over their pious rules to that extent
that in their hot displeasure those scrupulous
souls, thinking their holy synagogues were pol-
luted, and finding their efforts useless to render
this man obnoxous to his followers, thirsted for
his blood until their malignant and fiendish de-
sires were satiated in the torture and agonies of
the son of God. No other reasons were brought
forward for this persecuting, mobbing, killing
and driving the people from the borders of civi-
lization. "Mormon" plural marriage did not
vex the souls of our torturers at that period of
our history. Not long since we were told that
this was the only thing that was offensive in
"Mormonism," and that if we would lay this
aside "and become like them" we should be pro-
tected, and all would be well. But we were
aware that this was but "moonshine," and if we
gave up one principle there would be other re-
quirements made at our hands, all of which we
were very soon called to experience. Like the
Jews, they close their eyes and their ears to
truth, mercy and justice, and would, like them,
cry, "Crucify Him, crucify Him," were Christ to
come to them in the guise of a carpenter's
son.
		HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	May 2nd, 1887.


