ADDRESS OF CHANCELLOR O. F. WHITNEY.

Mr. President, Professors and Fellow-Stu-
dents:—

	For we are all students—if not in this Uni-
versity, in the University of life, the school of
human experience.
	I am not vain enough to suppose, in address-
ing you for a short time on this interesting oc-
casion, that I shall say anything new and start-
ling. To be original, in the sense of creating
something new, in an age like ours, and in a
world where history has so often repeated it-
self as to make each generation almost a pla-
giarism of its predecessors, is to be more than
"one man picked out of ten thousand," it is to
be an anomaly and a marvel in the eyes of
mankind.
	An editor once advised his readers to carry
with them a pencil and tablets, and be ready to
jot down any new idea that came into their
minds. Another editor observed sarcastically,
that some of them might carry the pencil a
thousand years, and not wear off the original
point.
	All that ordinary mortals can hope, at
this late day, I presume, is to pluck the fruit from
trees of others' planting, and by the various
methods of cookery known to this generation—
if I may use the figure—strive to make our
offering as acceptable as possible.
	There is an originality, however, which I be-
lieve it is the privilege of all men to exercise;
and not only their privilege, but their bounden
duty. It is to be original in the sense of being
independent, honest, conscientious, in all that
we say and do; in other words, to be original
in the sense of being true to ourselves.
	Says Shakespeare:

		To thine own self be true,
	And it must follow, as the night the day,
	Thou canst not then be false to any man.

	One of the greatest needs of humanity, in
all ages, is men and women of originality; of
truthfulness, sincerity, genuine motives and in-
dependence of character; men and women who
think for themselves, and dare to act according
to their thinking. As the present age is no ex-
ception, and I am speaking to some of the men
and women of the present and the future, it
will not be out of place for me to continue on
the subject I have begun.
	At first thought, it may seem a simple matter,
a very easy task, to be true to one's self; that
is, to be one's self, and not another; to defend
and serve self, when necessary; and to deny
self, when wisdom and duty dictate; to listen
to and obey the "still small voice" of con-
science, the voice of God in the human heart,
no matter how self-interest with silver tongue
may plead, or how darkly dangers may threaten;
to stand as a light-house on the storm-beaten
coast, unmoved by wind or wave, sending the
light of a heroic example over the tempestuous
waters, as a beacon of hope and of warning to
others.
	Let those who will, think it simple and easy.
Simple it may be—for simplest things are, as
a rule, the greatest—but to put such things in
practice has required, in all ages, the Hercu-
lean efforts and lion-like courage of earth's
giant souls.
     Says Emerson: "It is easy, in the world, to

[Column 2]

live after the world's opinion; it is easy, in soli-
tude, to live after our own; but the great man
is he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence of his
character."
	Independence of character does not consist
in a disposition to quarrel and contend on
every point at issue between us and our
neighbors. "Noise and fury" no more signify
independence, than the smoke and thunder of
battle tell the nature of the cause for which the
armies are contending. Silence and rest may
be quite as independent, and are often far more
dignified, than speech and action.
     The great man, the man of independence,
thinks, speaks and acts for himself. He will
never be found doing a thing, or saying a thing,
simply because it is popular. He will dare to
be himself, though the whole world oppose him.
He neither coincides in order to win favor, nor
opposes for opposition's sake. He will side
with the many, or with the few, according as
his conscience dictates. He is broad and liberal
in his views, and tolerant of the views of others.
He will dare to defend the weak against the
strong, and will never be found trampling on
the defenseless. No man is great, no man is
brave, no man is free, who feels or acts other-
wise.

	"They are slaves who fear to speak
	For the fallen and the weak;
	They are slaves who will not choose
	Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
	Rather than in silence shrink
	From the truth they needs must think;
	They are slaves who dare not be
	In the right, with two or three."

	Conscience makes cowards of all who fear to
follow her; and bigotry, intolerance—that
worst of tyrants—binds its votaries, far more
than its victims, in chains of veriest slavery.
	But let us consider the subject in some of its
lighter phases.
	It is always a sign of weakness, in real life,
to be an imitator; to be a mirror, as it were, of
other men's manners, or the echo of other
men's words and ideas. Such things be-
long to childhood or to the mimic stage. God
intended man to be original, to act his own
part in life's drama, to speak his own lines, and
no one else's.
	Even the actor, whose profession is to imitate,
to "hold the mirror up to nature" and the per-
fection of whose art is "the highest imitation
of nature;" even he must be original, or he
will never achieve greatness. There is an imi-
tation which even imitators must avoid—(ex-
cept it be in burlesque,—and that is the imita-
tion of each other's style of acting. Variety
is necessary. One Edwin Booth is enough.
One Sara Bernhardt is sufficient. We do not
care to see them duplicated in every supernu-
merary around them.
	The same holds good in literature. Turning
down the collar and drinking wine out of a 
skull goblet do not make a Lord Byron, by
any means. It may make a laugh, but it will
be at the expense of the simpleton who causes
it. "The poet is born, not made," and every
poet sent into the world must sing his own song,
and not another's, or the world will be little
better for his singing.
	Affectation of any kind is disgusting. It is
falsehood; it is theft; it is sinning against na-
ture. The young man, American-born, who
goes to England a Yankee, and comes back a
Cockney, exchanging his native nasal twang


bad as it is, for something insufferably worse—
a cultivated cold in the head; borrowing from
over the sea a foreign accent and mannerism,
simply because "its English you know," may
be the beau ideal of what is
termed a "dude," but that is about
the severest thing I would care to say of him.
	No more admirable—with all due regard for
gallantry—is the young lady who visits New
York, London or Paris, and comes back gazing
with eye-glasses and amazement at every object
familiar to her since childhood, and asks all
sorts of questions, that would puzzle the in-
vention of a hack-driver to answer, about Salt
Lake, Ogden or Provo—her birthplace.
	Be original, be genuine, despise affectation.
No man can be that which he is not. Sooner
or later he will be known for what he is, and
souls, like water, will seek and find their level.
Disgrace and failure await those who stand in
false positions, and who try—oh how vainly!—
to be any one but themselves.
	The lapdog in the fable delighted his master
by leaping upon him and stroking him with
his paws. But the poor donkey who tried to
play the lapdog, nearly killed his master, and
was soundly thrashed for his folly.
	Young man or young woman just commenc-
ing life! Be true to yourself; act your own
character; live the life for which you were in- 
tended, and you will succeed and be honored,
as surely as God intended you should. But if
you strive to be another than yourself, or to fill
a place for which you were never designed,
you will fall, as would fall the exotic before
an Arctic blast, or melt like the iceberg in the
tropics.


