JEALOUSY.

	To fully describe this passion would require a
philosophical elucidation which I shall not attempt
in this short article; but simply offer a few reflec-
tions in relation to it.
	It is claimed by some of the lords of creation
and perhaps not without some justification that
woman is not naturally a philosopher, being
governed more by intuition than by the slower
method of reasoning from cause to effect; but I
believe it has never been denied that her conclu-
sions, though reached much more quickly are
often as correct as man's, especially upon those
matters in which she herself is interested.
	In all the works of the great Creator we behold
a most beautiful harmony; hence, man's gifts and
endowments are strictly in keeping with his organ-
ism; while his follies and weaknesses are decided-
ly masculine and wherever seen manifesting them-
selves are easily recognized as belonging to the
genus homo.  To say that a weakly woman ex-
hibits feminine traits of character is positively in-
correct for the lack of true manhood either in a
physical or mental sense certainly has no relation
to true womanhood, and I will not be so cowardly
as to attempt to palm off upon man anything that
woman exhibits that seems at all unwomanly. 
	Woman from the very earliest period has occu-
pied a distinct position from man.  The degree of ele-
vation to which she has attained has been de-
termined by the intelligence of the age in which
she has lived.  An age of barbarism has invaria-
bly been an age of slavery for her; while an age of
enlightenment has invariably placed her by the
side of man as an help-meet for him.  And I take


[column 1]
it that the two spheres, though dissimilar in many
respects, yet when legitimately occupied will pro-
duce no jar or friction whatever.
	I have sometimes asked myself the question.
Is the condition of women upon this earth an ab-
normal one, that she should at any time feel in any
degree whatever, jealous of her husband? And
again, can a passion so destructive in its character
and results be a part of her nature? and here I
confess I am stopped for want of a philosophy to
answer my question to my full satisfaction and my
intuition upon this point is sadly at fault also.
	To say that jealousy is an outgrowth of love I
do not believe for one moment, for the one is the
very antipodes of the other; dissimilar in every
respect. Love is confiding and trustful; jealousy
is suspicious and distrustful. One exhibits an en-
tire absence of selfishness while the other ex-
hibits it to the highest degree. Love draws;
jealousy repels. Love would sacrifice its own life
for the object of its affection; Jealousy would
murder the being it mistrusts, and glory in the
vengeance, claiming it had committed the deed
because of love. The two passions cannot oper-
ate together for they are antagonistic to each other,
and as exhibited by mortals, the one seems to be
of God and the other of the evil one; for while the
one tends to life the other leads to death; and as
Solomon says, “Is as cruel as 'the grave,” while
“love is stronger than death.”
	Jealousy, as far as woman is concerned, seems
to be tracable to the time when she was placed
under a ban by the Almighty in the Garden of
Eden when he said, “Thy desire shall be to thy
husband etc,” which desire we cannot view in the
abstract only as a curse and unless this feeling is
held under strict control will always prove to be
such;
	Man’s unfaithfulness to woman in the keeping
of his marriage vows as exhibited in the monoga-
mous relation has fanned the flame of jealousy
and caused the fire thereof to burn with such in-
tensity for so many generations past as to almost
preclude the idea of its ever being extinguished.
Woman's distrust of man has become an estab-
lished tradition, leading her to question if the
time will ever come when a consummation
so devoutly to be wished" shall be reached?
We answer, yes. That time will come and will 
be brought about by the power of the Gospel un-
der whose influence man and woman will be
brought back into the presence of God, freed not
only from the power of the curse, but from the 
curse itself; which, as I view it, belongs exclusive-
ly to a fallen earth. The provisions of the Gos-
pel are ample and cover the entire ground over
which the curse reaches, or in the language of the 
poet "Far as the curse was found." One of the 
provisions which the Gospel makes is that a faith-
ful man is entitled to more than one wife and
strange as it may appear the acceptance and prac-
tice of this very principle will secure to us victory
over this passion as nothing else will; for if its
practice, as our opposers claim, naturally tends to
the strengthening of this passion then may we
question its heavenly origin. In proof of my po-
sition I will appeal to those of my sisters who 
have received the doctrine as from God, and who 
have entered into its practice with this faith in 
their hearts and ask you, If you have not obtained
thereby a power over this passion which you could
not have done otherwise? I know the answer in
nearly every instance will be most emphatically
in the affirmative. Then in this regard are you
gradually coming out from under the curse, and 
that, too, upon the most simple principle imaginable.
By subscribing to God's law. For, instead of be-
ing jealous, you esteem and serve all the more the
men who honor this law.
	Those of my sisters who in feeling and faith 
are opposed to this principle but have yielded
thereto merely from a fear of doing wrong, they 
are to-day in a greater or less degree victims to
[column 2]
this bane of their life and suffer severely from a
passion that can only be conquered by a willing
obedience to law. Right here I make bold to
state that there is less distrust and suspicion ex-
hibited in the families of polygamists than in the
families of monogamists; the howlings of the
Utah ring, and the Christain world to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Marital infidelity in monogamous families in the
Christain world is the rule rather than the excep-
tion; while marital fidelity in polygamous families
among the Latter-day Saints is the exception (and
a very marked exception) rather than the rule.
Hence this cause of jealousy is so far removed.
True, there may remain what we term petty jeal-
ousies, that have their origin in trifles that are not
worth naming, which the best of us feel at times.
annoyances, which are more often the result of
physical conditions than anything else, and conse-
quently but short lived and therefore not neces-
sarily destructive in their character. But the
jealousy of which I am treating is most destruc-
tive; for if the individual who is a victim to this
passion does not seek the ruin of the person of
whom she is jealous, then it is like a consuming
fire in her own bones producing untold misery,
until death comes to her relief. It is a passion
capable of extinguishing every other feeling, re-
ducing its victims to the condition of abject
slavery, and holding them in the most absolute
bondage.
	In this one instance there is shown the superiori-
ty of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ, a dispensation of which is committed to
us, imparting as it does power to the individual
who receives it to overcome all things and the
Revelator John says of such, that they shall eat
of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the
paradise of God, which tree was closely guarded
when Adam and Eve were driven from the Gar-
den of Eden, but to which now, after having over-
come, they have free access, and by eating the
fruit thereof, will "live forever."
