			KIMBALL REUNION.

	The first general gathering of the family of the
late President Heber C. Kimball was held at Full-
er Hill Gardens on Tuesday, June 14 1887, that
day being the anniversary of the birth of Presi-
dent Kimball 86 years before. A committee of
the Kimball boys issued invitations to the family
and friends and arranged a programme for the oc-
casion. There were several hundred assembled
of the members of the family connections and in-
timate friends. In the Hall at the back of the
stand were hung portraits of Heber C. Kimball
and his wives, Vilate Murray and Anna Gheen,
also a portrait of President Brigham Young, his
life-long companion and friend. The two men
were like brothers, and for several years labored
together in the missionary field, both members of
the quorum of the Twelve Apostles and were
afterwards associated together for many years
up to the time of Elder H. C. Kimball's death in
the presidency of the Church. In days gone by
their names were almost invariably coupled to-
gether by their relatives and friends, as Brigham
and Heber, one seldom being mentioned without
the other. Besides these portraits there were
those of Heber P. Kimball, David P., Brigham
W., Jerimiah H. of his sons that are dead and of
his grandson also deceased, and one of his sons
Charles S. who was absent from home and could
not attend.
	On the stand were seated nineteen of his living
sons, all large fine-looking men; also his eldest
daughter, Helen Mar Whitney, and her son Bishop
Orson F. Whitney. Of his widows present we
noticed Presindia L., Ruth R., Mary Ellen., Har-
riet S., Christine G., and Amanda G. Kimball.
There were several of his children both sons and
daughters who were not present, still there was a

[Column 2]
large and notable representation. The master of
ceremonies was the eldest son, William H. Kim-
ball, and the opening exercise was "Auld Lang
Syne" by Held's band. The music was inspira-
tional, and the selection most appropriate. Prayer
was offered by Elder David Candland an adopted
son of the veteran apostle in whose honor the
family convened. The choir under the direction
of Horace G. Whitney with Prof. Evan Stephens
at the organ rendered that grandly significant
hymn, "O ye mountains high," the effect was thrill-
ing and tender. Introductory remarks of a most
touchingly pathetic character were made by Bishop
Joseph S. Kimball, followed by a quartette sung
by the Kimball boys, with clear manly voices in
the very best of time and tune, Prof. Stevens
accompanying them on the organ. Bishop O. F.
Whitney then read a brief sketch of the life of
his grandfather which he had written for the occa-
sion, giving the most remarkable incidents in the
life of this great man whose memory is so fondly
revered by the Latter-day Saints. The article
on Prest. Kimball read by Bishop Whitney will be
published in the Contributor for June. The Bishop
is engaged in writing the life of Heber C. Kimball
in an elaborate work. After the rendering of
the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah," the benediction was pronounced
by Elder Wm. B. Barton. This completed the
morning exercises after which there was an inter-
mission of about three hours, and delicious re-
freshments were served under the trees, on the
grounds, and amusements indulged in and
thoroughly enjoyed.
	About three o'clock the family and guests as-
sembled again in the hall to finish the programme
which had been begun in the morning. First was
a duet by Helen K. Bourne and Florence Whitney,
granddaughters of Heber C. Kimball; Miss
Viola Pratt sang "I stood on the bridge at mid-
night;" and Elder Andrew Kimball gave a reci-
tation. The assembly was then addressed by
President Angus M. Cannon, who made some
very happy comparisons calculated to encourage
and benefit the descendants of the illustrious
Heber C. Kimball.
	During the afternoon by request the eldest son
and daughter and the youngest son and daughter
of Prest. Kimball were introduced to the assem-
bly from the stand. The eldest were Wm. H.
Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney children of
Heber C. and Vilate Murray Kimball
and the youngest were Leonard L. and
Abbie Kimball children of Heber C. and
Mary Smithers Kimball. There are now living
of this large plural family 25 sons and 11 daughters,
36 in all. Such gatherings are commendable and
exceedingly interesting. They are productive of
great good, promoting harmony and increasing
love and affection among the members from gen-
eration to generation. There were a very large
number of grandchildren and great grandchildren
present. It was a scene and a time long to be re-
membered by all who were there, not only mem-
bers of the family but invited guests. The good
feeling and spirit that pervaded the meeting and
the association together was sufficient to prove the
love and unity that exists in large families, as well
as small ones, and coming from several parts of
the Territory, some not having seen each other for
several years, it must be a source of joy and grati-
fication to meet as they did there in social enjoy-
ment. It is hoped that this first gathering of the
Kimballs will be the initiative for many more and
that the increase of his posterity will continue to
grow and spread forth while time shall last.
	These lines were written for the reunion:
		Let Kimball families everywhere
		With joyful hearts and hands prepare
		To spend in friendship and goodwill
		A holiday at Fuller's Hill,
	
		In memory of his honored name,
		The hero of prophetic fame,

[Column 3]
		Now held in sacred love and praise
		By all the Saints of Latter-days.
		
		Released from care and earthly loads,
		He sits in council with the Gods,
		While those He left on earth behold
		The things which he so oft foretold.

		The gifted and prophetic seer
		Looks down upon his children here,
		And loves to see them leal and true,
		And carrying out his counsels, too.

		The staff of innocence and youth,
		And dauntless advocate of truth:
		Things seen through his prophetic glass
		Were always sure to come to pass.

		Among the first to open doors
		And raise the flag on British shores,
		What precious seed he scattered there
		In answer to the contrite prayer.

		Though never blest to see him here,
		His righteous memory I revere;
		And oft his journal I have read,
		And tears of admiration shed

		While musing on his generous love
		In drawing human hearts above,
		And pointing out the narrow road
		That, leads them back to heaven and God.

		Like tiger merging from his cave,
		Or lion in his manhood brave,
		His keen reproof to age and youth
		Was sharpened by unvarnished truth.

		A friend so staunch, so true and tried,
		Unwavering by the Prophet's side,
		When persecuted hearts were wrung—
		And still the same to Brigham Young.

		And in Missouri's darkest hour,
		A king in majesty and power;
		When demons wrecked the fair Nauvoo
		We know the scenes he waded through.

		The celebration now begun
		Should be a universal one;
		And Kimball hearts with grateful tears
		Repeat it through succeeding years.

