NOTES AND NEWS.	
	Wash silk stockings in warm borax water,
but never iron them.

	Miss Louise Imogen Guiney is about to bring
out a new volume of poems.

	Mme. Marie Dronsart, a French woman, has
written a biography of Bismarch in three
volumes.

	Queen Margharita, of Italy, has established 
an asylum for the blind in the Baths of Diocle-
tian at Rome.

	Fifty-four women have placed their names
on the British Register as duly qualified Medi-
cal practitioners.

	Some old dinner customs still prevail. The


Romans used to recline at their banquets, and
the habit of lying at public dinners still pre-
vails.—Boston Bulletin.

	The Princess of Wales in having her
daughters taught dressmaking has determined
that they shall make some of their own gowns
as an example to poor, but proud, gentle-
women.

	Marie Augustin Despeissis, of London, is a
new departure in the way of women inventors.
She has patented a device for creating a regu-
lar and even draught through the tubes or flues
of steam boilers, which is said to work well.

The Lake Champlain steamer, Water Lily, has
a woman pilot in the person of Mrs. Louise
Daniels, wife of Captain Daniels, of that
steamer. Mrs. Daniels, who is a prepossessing
woman of forty-two years, has just received her
license to act as pilot on Lake Champlain
wrters.

	Prof. Shaler says the actual moving of the
ground in the case of earthquakes is slight; the
Charleston shocks, for instance, probably
swinging the earth to and fro within the space
of an inch. Attention to good masonry in
building would secure immunity from shocks
in most cases.

	Lady Wilde, the mother of Oscar, and the
author of Irish revolutionary poems which she
wrote in 1848 over the name of Speranza, is
living in London it is said in absolute want, be-
cause her Irish tenants have not paid a cent of
rent in six years; yet she will not consent to a
single eviction on her estate.

	Mme. Dieulafoy, who received the Cross of
the Legion of Honor from the French govern-
ment for the help she gave her husband in his
explorations among the ruins of Susa, has a
taste for masculine attire. She found long
skirts inconvenient at Susa, and adopted clothes
better suited to the work. The other night
she shocked Paris by appearing at the theatre
in masculine dress, with the Cross of the Legion
of Honor on her breast. The papers are now
recalling instances of other celebrated French
women from Joan of Arc to George Sand, who
discarded the usual dress of her sex. But Mme.
Dieulafoy probably will not make a practice of 
appearing thus attired, since a French law,
passed in 1857, empowers the police to arrest 
any woman who dresses like a man, unless she 
is armed with a physician's certificate to show
that she does it for the good of her health.


