EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present time is really an important one in
the history of Utah and must certainly be so con-
sidered by every thoughtful person. The enforce-
ment of the Edmunds-Tucker law has worked
very great hardship, and has been ruinous to the
homes heretofore happy and prosperous, to say
nothing of the broken hearts and blighted lives,
and even cruel deaths of women and children;
these may be looked upon as trifles by those who
are so determined to "disestablish the "Mormon"
Church" and "wipe out polygamy" little things
like these must not stand in the way, certainly not
when they talk about putting to the sword but
assuredly sooner or later there will come a terrible
day of reckoning.
	The peculiar political situation of the Territory
causes uncertainty in business ventures and is
calculated to work the most serious injury to the
best interests of those, who have striven hard to
maintain a permanent condition of temporal pros-
perity for the whole people. It has not been such
an easy matter as some have vainly imagined to
build up this country, with the few resources at
hand, remembering as the early settlers will, that in
former days everything had to be brought more
than a thousand miles overland, and the facilities
within reach were very few for making homes and
building up towns and cities; teams were poor,
there were no "thorough breds" nor "Jerseys and
Durhams" in those days and it was the bone and
sinew of the people that brought about the almost
marvelous changes that transpired in these valleys
of the mountains during the first few years of the
sojourn of the Latter-day Saints here.
	It is not much of a wonder that the veritable peo-
ple of Utah should be interested in her welfare con-
sidering the exertions they have made to make
this a desirable abiding-place, a fruitful garden, a
place of refuge and peace for the weary wanderers,
hunted and driven, persecuted and oppressed for
their religious belief, more than for the practice of
the principles they professed. Who should be so
deeply, so intensely interested for Utah, as those
who actually come here and searched out this
"chosen land," and planted the American flag here
for the first time? Reason and common sense
tell us that it is but simple justice to consider in
any country its founders. The Latter-day Saints
love liberty and freedom, the freedom guaranteed
by the Constitution of the United States. That
freedom was denied to them, and they were ex-
iled from the homes they had made on the banks
of the Mississippi, where they had built up a
flourishing city; they were compelled, at the risk
of all they held dear to make a long journey in-
land to a place then unknown, that they might be
free from molestation, and enjoy the rights and
privileges of true born men and women. This
they did in the face of difficulties and privations
of various kinds, and without any spirit of hatred
towards those who had cast them forth, as it were,
to perish, for it was a perilous undertaking with
such scant preparations as could be hurriedly

[Column 2]

made in the middle of a severe winter, across
what was then known as the Western Frontiers.
Many died by the way, and their resting places
are not even marked, their deaths were untimely
and their graves are unknown, save to Him who
watches over all, and without whose knowlege
not even a sparrow falls to the ground. Many of
those who were spared through all the privations
and hardships, suffered from hunger, cold and fa-
tigue more than can ever be told in words,they have
rightfully earned an inheritance and should be at
least allowed some privileges, and not expected to
bow meekly down and tamely submit to the dicta-
tion of those who have come here when all was
fair weather and clear sailing, on purpose to pos-
sess themselves of whatever advantages the coun-
try afforded, after the land was subdued and made
fertile, the roads and bridges made and the wild
beasts destroyed, and in their arrogance assuming,
because of the unpopularity of the people, who
had made the Territory, superior rights—and de-
clare themselves to be the only "truly loyal citi-
zens" of this great and glorious Republic. The
people of Utah are entitled to local self-govern-
ment; as the jurisdiction of Congress over
the Territories is now understood or misunderstood
there are few rights allotted to those whose mis-
fortune it is to live in a Territory, and therefore as
soon as conditions and population warrant such a 
step, it ought to be the duty of the people to take
such initiatory steps as will open the way for their
admission into the union as a state, that they may
have such a standing as will give them prestige
and rank equal with others, who have long ago out
grown and thrown off their swaddling clothes, and
stand on equal footing with the oldest and the
grandest state in the union, so far as representa-
tion is concerned.
	There could be no more practicable or safe
method for Congress to dispose of the Mormon
problem, that has vexed and perplexed their over-
righteous souls so much and so long, than to ad-
mit Utah into the Union as a state. Probably the
Hon. J. Randolph Tucker would exclaim, Utah
was not a Christian country; he affirmed that this
domain belonged to the United States, and was
wanted for Christian homes; he puts a curious con-
struction upon the term Christian—when he dis-
putes the rights of Latter-day Saints to be entitled
to the term, but as he will not probably have any-
thing official to say in the matter, not having been
returned as a member of Congress, his opinion
will not hurt the cause. And it may come to pass,
after all, that the long wished for boon—statehood
—may be conferred upon Utah, and the people be
in a position to have a voice not only in the local
affairs, but in the national issues on which so much
of the public weal depends. However, the salva-
tion of this people does not depend upon statehood,
not at all. It is an American idea, and has been
engrafted in the education of all American people;
it would give a sort of independence that is inher-
ent in those born in this great and free Republic,
and this feeling is in harmony with the Gospel, but 
if temporal prosperity, such as might possibly result
from becoming a "free and sovereign state,"
should lead this people away into darkness and
error, and to become political demagogues and par-
tisnas, then better be without it. Therefore, one
should feel in this case as in many others, that
"whatever is is right," and after having made the
effort, leave all in the hands of Him who knows
what is for the best and highest good of His chosen
people.


[Column 1]

