EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have been favored this season with bouquets
of choice flowers and June roses, fragrant with
sweet perfume, and gracefully given as tokens of
love and esteem from dear friends. Among the
number we recall Sisters Martha McKay, Jane
Cowan, M. M. Barratt, Sarah Jane Cannon, Betsy

[Column 2]

C. Glover, the Misses Wells, the Misses Young,
Misses Woods, Miss Judith Rice and Mr. James
Dwyer.  It is always pleasant to be remembered
with such beautiful gifts, that give expression to
the most delicate sentiments of the human heart.
What would the world be without flowers, silent
messengers of love and friendship abounding with
eloquence?
	MR. EDWARD W. TULLIDGE'S play of Cromwell,
which was written by him some years ago, and
afterwards revised, will be put upon the stage at
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Friday evening, June
24th. It is said by critics and reviewers hereabout
to be an admirable work, and that it does the
author great credit. We hope and trust the pre-
sentation will be a financial as well as a literary
success. Mr. John S. Lindsey takes the leading
part in the gentlemen's role, Miss Georgie Hayne
leading lady. The writings of Mr. Tullidge have
been decidedly popular in and outside Utah, and
the author deserves from the public a crowded
house and liberal patronage, and the play itself
has such merit as entitles it to  be heard and seen
not only here at home among his friends, but
ought to win for him popularity and success
abroad.
	ON Friday, May 20th, 1887, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's
class in obstetrics passed successful examinations,
Drs. W. F. Anderson, H. J. Richards and A. S.
Bowers being the examining board. Certificates
of study were issued to the following named
ladies: Mrs. Mantie J. Shipp, Beaver; Mrs. 
Anna Mohr, Arizona; Mrs. Olive Stringham,
Holden; Miss Martha Merkley, St, Charles; Miss
Minnie and Annie Christenson, Gunnison; Miss
Katie Wells and Miss Annie Richards, Salt Lake
City. After the preliminary exercises, the after-
noon was spent in feasting on the good things of
the earth both physically, intellectually and artisti-
cally. Dr. Shipp has done a great deal of work in
this way, and enters into her labors with a zeal and
energy that ensures success. She aims to have her
students familiar with the minutest details of the
work they undertake, and not skim over the surface
without dipping down into the depths. Her teach-
ing is both practical and thorough.
	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP'S obstetric class passed
their final examination before Drs. Anderson,
Richards and Bowers on Thursday, May 19. Miss
Edna L. Smith, Miss Mabel Park and Miss Millie
Reynolds, all of this city. These ladies deserve
great credit for their close application to the study,
but their efforts were rewarded as was shown by
their successful and brilliant examinations.  It is
difficult to fully estimate the advantages that will
accrue to the community in having young women
so qualified in this branch of medical science.
Dr. Shipp is an indefatigable worker, and has her
occupation at heart, which makes her valuable
teachings felt. When one enters into her work
whole-souled her efforts are much more effective.
Dr. M. C. Shipp has given very interesting lectures
in public places, as well as before her class, and
seems to possess a very happy faculty for adapting
her language to the ideas she wishes to convey,
thereby making the subject clearer than do those
who wrap their thoughts in too many words.
	THE most elaborate preparations to celebrate
Queen Victoria's Jubilee are being made in Great
Britain. Royalty and titled people from various
parts of Europe and the islands of the sea are
wending their way there, or have already landed in
England to be present and witness the ceremonies
on this joyful occasion. No wonder the people of 
Victoria's realm love and venerate her, for the
country has never seen such a long period of 
peace and active prosperity as during the reign of
this wise and judicious woman-Queen and Em-
press. Long may she live, to bless and to rule
with the same characteristic wisdom. Her example
has given as much prestige to her reign as the ju-


dicious and discreet management of the affairs of
the kingdom have to its fame both at home and
abroad. Queen Victoria has proven beyond dis-
pute that a woman may occupy the highest position
in state or kingdom, and yet be a most excellent
mother, and never lose that sweetness and grace of
character which is the inherent gift of womanhood,
and which men are so afraid will be lost when
women are allowed to vote and hold positions of
emolument and trust.
	"THE GREAT CONTEST!" This is the telling
title of a new pamphlet, recently issued from the
Deseret News Office, by Robert W. Sloan, who
spent the past winter, and in fact was in Washing-
ton during the whole of the last session of Con-
gress, and had excellent opportunities to observe
the way in which the Mormon question was treated
upon by men who represent the people of this free
Republic at National Headquarters. The writer
gives to the reader in a concise manner the princi-
pal features in the case, and a great many facts
that are worth knowing. No one can peruse this
little work carefully without getting a pretty good
idea of the whole Mormon situation, as it relates
to the political interests of the people of this Terri-
tory. The author shows up Mr. Tucker in a glow-
ingly unfavorable and un-Christian light. There
never was a speech fuller of inconsistencies than
that of the gentleman just named, and yet he
poses before the nation as a fearless champion of
human rights, and talks in the most pathetic man-
ner possible about the home—the Christian home
—and the one wife, who possesses the whole heart
of her husband, and so on. Mr. Sloan has made
some good and strong points in referring to the
speeches made on the bill, and the book, taken as
a whole, is a valuable acquisition to the libraries
of the home and the people. The price of the
book is within the reach of all, and it is a good
one for reference. For sale at the Deseret News
Office and all the principal book stores in the city
Price 25 cents.


