HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY.

	Household economy is a subject that every
famiiy ought to understand, whether rich or
poor. Economy is a great blessing, especially
to those who are in a measure restricted in the
comforts of life. All people should study to
provide for themselves according to their means
or station in life.
	Never go in debt for one dollar unless you
can see your way clearly through. It is no dis-
grace to wear poor clothes; better that than
good ones not paid for. Never purchase any-
thing too costly to correspond with your be-
longings, as it will only create a desire for more

[Column 2]

to match it, and it is easier to suppress the first
desire than all that follow it, and one is apt to
go beyond her means if she make such a begin-
ning. Make what you have look as nice as you
can, and don't envy your neighbors what they
have if it is better than yours. We ought to
be able to create a public sentiment in favor of
economy. By careful economy, living within
our means and saving a little, we may enter the
road of assured prosperity. It is that which is
saved, not what is made, which constitutes na-
tional as well as individual wealth. Never be
ashamed of economy; study it, practice it, make
a duty and a pleasure of it. We are taught
that it is a sin to waste, therefore let us remem-
ber, when our meals are over, to save what is
left, and make sure of it in some way. Never
throw a piece of bread away, as stale bread
makes very nice puddings, and may be made
use of in several ways. Study how you can
use up the scraps and bits to make dishes
nourishing and palatable. A great many have
the knack of using them up in a very appetiz-
ing way. Of course the leavings from dishes,
kettles, etc., can be given to domestic animals.
You may say these are trifles, but one's life is
made up of seconds, and many cents make a
dollar.
	We should be economical with all household
belongings. If the furniture gets scratched,
varnish it; if the carpets get soiled, wash and
color them, and don't think when things begin
to look shabby that they must be replaced by
new ones, but study how you can make them
look nice and last as long as possible. As far
as you can use ornaments, laces, tidies, rugs,
mats, etc., and try to make home look pleasant
and attractive. In this way it may be nice
with very little expense. There is no truer
economy than a little good taste. What you
have, have it neat and nice. There is no real
comfort in extravagance or display of style or
pride, but economy is a virtue of life-long bene-
fit.
	Industry and economy go hand in hand, and
idleness creates mischief. Never spend an idle
moment, and you are not apt to be led into by
and forbidden paths. Remember, sister, you
may some day be a wife and mother, and will
make or mar a future household. Every girl
should be taught the business of housekeeping
in all its departments (whether rich or poor)
and it can be well acquired only by each one
taking an active part in the household duties.
With the united efforts and industry of a whole
family it is sure to become prosperous and
happy; and on the other hand, if each one is
extravagant and wasteful and selfish, destroy-
ing all that comes within her reach, regard-
less of time or expense, are apt to, sooner or
later, be brought down to poverty and misery.
And suppose the means does hold out, what
a bad example to set for those that are growing
up and learning the ways of the world. We
should let our light so shine that others can
profit by our example, and always be willing
to impart to others that which we have acquired
through study or invention, as we are in duty
bound to help others all we can. If you know
how to do housework or fancy work never
think you are too busy to teach others, for in
so doing you enable others to economize as well
as yourself.
	What a nice scene is the household work!
The mother assisted by her daughters, all things
in order, nothing going to waste, work done
well and systematically, a place for everything
and everything in its place, a time for work,
a time for books and a time for everything;
each one takes an interest in the house-
hold, consequently they love to stay at
home, love one another's society, always happy
and contented, and think there is no place like
home.
	Let no one think household economy mean
or anything to be ashamed of, neither suppose

[Column 3]

that no ability is needed to practice it. When
we can see how much it embraces, we can
plainly see that there is an ample field for
exercise of the most enlightened education.
Book learning is also needed; there is every day
occasion for its use, and the more readily
artistic knowledge is applied in domestic affairs,
the more readily the work is done, and the
more pleasure is given to the participants there-
in.
	We are not only amply paid ourselves by
practicing economy, but just see how much
better the heads of the family will feel, and
how much happier and more contented they
are when they see everyone striving to help
herself and to help one another, and if we
learn to economize in small things we are sure
to in large ones.
		C. E. W.


