(AN INTERESTING GATHERING.
	In honor of Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, President
of the Relief Society of the 15th Ward of this
city there was an interesting gathering at the Re-
lief Society Hall, where a few invited guests par-
ticipated with the sisters of the ward in expres-
sions of esteem and love, and in social enjoyment
at the same time. There was singing and a prayer,)
after which a written address was read by Sister
Elizabeth Duncason, who is the President of a 
Committee in the Society, and during the reading
a memorial picture, in which many of her co-labor-
ers in the ward were handsomely grouped around
her, was presented to Sister Kimball as a token of
the high esteem in which she is held by them.
	Sister Kimball made a loving response, in which
she said, "The sisters have captured me, and I am
for the time being their subject; this representa-
tion of friends will, when located in my home, be
a precious memento. I desire to be worthy of the
love and appreciation so beautifully expressed."
	Appropriate speeches were made by Sisters M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith and Jeanette
Yates, expressing love, respect and appreciation.
	Sister Ann Duncason said she had invited Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, who, although not able to
attend, had sent her love and best wishes to all
the sisters, and felt to bless all who had so kindly 
remembered their president.
	Sister Elizabeth Duncason expressed her ap-
preciation of Sister Kimball's labors, and that she
had been a blessing to the sisters associated in the
ward, and to her especially.
	Sister Rebecca M. Jones thought there had
generally been a very good feeling among those
who had labored together for so many years as a


quorum of sisters, and that their president had
been very efficient in directing the efforts of those
associated with her, and hoped she would live
long on the earth to bless and help those among
whom she was called to labor.
     Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke for a short time
and said she thought if the sisters would unite
their faith she would like to hear Sister Kimball
bless the sisters in the gift of tongues.
     Sister Kimball expressed a wish that the Lord
would give her His Spirit to bless the sisters in
that gift; and she then spoke in tongues, blessing
all.  Sister Young gave the interpretation, which
was full of instruction, comfort and blessings to
the sisters.  After singing, the assembly was dis-
missed with prayer by Sister M. Lois Morris.
     Refreshments were then served, and after all had
partaken several songs were sung.  Sister J. I.
Jones sang, "Take me back a child to mother;"
Sister M. Lois Morris sang, "Ever of Thee;"
Sister C. Schoonhalls sang, "An Alpine Warble;"
Sister Jones sang, "I cannot sing the old songs"
and "Auld Lang Syne."  The sisters then joined
in singing, "Hard times come again no more."
They had been conversing much upon the early
days in the valley, and the hardships and priva-
tions of the people during that period.  Dismissed
with prayer by Sister B. W. Smith.


