A LEAF FROM MY JOURNAL.

	During my stay in India, I was invited one
afternoon in the month of May by a gentle-
man friend, to visit a convent and witness the
imposing ceremony or rather celebration of
Corpus Christi which means the body of Christ.
The celebration consisted of a large procession
of priests, nuns and a mixed assemblage of
men women and children of the Roman Catho-
lic persuasion.
	It was headed by a Bishop of the Catholic
Church, and who is in that denomination a
very high and sacred dignitary. He was
dressed in a rich sacerdotal robe of gold and
silk; under him, carried by twelve acolytes,
was a beautiful silken canopy with gold and 
silver fringe, and before him on a small elabor-
ately designed platform was the model of a 
beautiful temple of pure gold, of about two
feet in height and must have weighed between
forty and fifty pounds, for it seemed to be
very laborious work for the two priests who
carried it. Inside this temple was supposed to
be the body of Christ.
	Numberless native converts were in attend-
ance dressed very neatly, swaying large and
handsome fans over the bishop and priest; and
others with large trays of refreshments as the
weather was extremly hot.
	The procession and ceremonies were confined
within the beautiful grounds of the convent,
which were very extensive and most tastefully
laid out. After the procession was formed, the
convent bell rang out a chant which was a sign
to move. The priests set up a kind of a wail
in Latin. Then the bishop would take up
he refrain, and after proceeding for a short
distance, he would stop, and the vast multi-
tude fell upon their knees. Then the priests
clustered around the temple and bowed down
to it.
	It seemed to me they were offering their
adoration to the precious metal instead of to
any Deity. This farce lasted about four hours.
I felt thankful to my Heavenly Father that I
was privileged to be a Latter-day Saint, that
I knew better than worship idols, for the Lord
has said, "Thou shalt worship no other God."
		H. F. McCUNE.
Nephi.


A door-plate in Berlin, Germany, bears the
names of three doctors. One is Dr, Tiburtius,
a staff physician; the second is his wife, the
first woman dentist in Berlin, and a graduate
of the Philadelphia School of Dentistry; the
third is the sister of the first, Fransiska Tibur-
tius, a graduate of Zurich, and who, with Miss
Lemus, has charge of a dispensary for poor
women. There are twelve women practicing
dentistry in Germany who were students of
American colleges.


