I Love A Brook
By Anna Prince Redd
I love a brook, a swiftly moving stream That tumbles down a mountain from the snows And finds its way across the town to gleam Like silver ribbon through the meadow as it goes.
It bides its time and flows beneath the clover, If storms becloud or earth's mould holds it back It but accumulates in strength, and spilling over It clears and finds its way along a crack.
Then still and deep and stately-wending, proud To be a-moving, happy just to be, It presses on till joyous, bounding, loud, It surges over rocks to meet the sea.
So runs my life: Reunion is my goal. Thus must I strive, and striving find my soul.
Woman as an Interpreter of the Truth
By Maude B. Jacob
"One is richest in soul who has given most to enrich souls."
WOMAN'S opportunity in friendship is limitless in degree and scope from the outside world of life and beauty to the inner world of affection and communion. Life is gladdened, ennobled, and inspired in varying degrees as each day the intimacies of nature, of art, and of music, the human associations in work and in play, and the communion of home and church touch us. If intimacy, companionship, and communion may be considered in the range of friendship, then "the problem of life is the problem of friendship". It is no new thought that the spiritual life is but a deepening friendship with God.
The world today, individuals as well as peoples, are yearning for friendship. It is the peculiar glory of womanhood to be friendly. This superior quality, friendliness, comes from a combination of heart and mind, from woman's spiritual perception and sensibilities, from her ability for self-effacement and her sympathy for human frailties, and from her indefinable sense of and power of living for immaterial things. Lamartine, the great French humanist, says of woman's adaptability for friendliness, "Nature has given women two heavenly gifts which distinguish them and often raise them above human nature—compassion and enthusiasm. By compassion they devote themselves and by enthusiasm they exalt themselves."
It is the tendency of woman to prefer to be the "inspirer" rather than "creator," a condition which may be due largely to her disposition but in part, no doubt, to the influence of the social and religious forces that have directed human progress. The role of woman as inspirer is one which on the whole is most advantageous to general progress. Nevertheless, it is evident that many of the social, political, and aesthetic influences of civilization have seen birth in women's minds long before they were carried to public organizations. All in all, it appears most providential for man, the conqueror of the material world, that woman with her intuitiveness, ingeniousness, and encouragement has proved herself worthy of the role of inspirer. Tennyson, the Victorian poet, as he considered the effect of education upon woman's influence, saw this greater role and recorded it in the delightful idyll, "The Princess:"
"Everywhere Two heads in council, two beside the hearth, Two in the tangled business of the world, Two in the liberal offices of life. The woman's cause is man's: they rise or sink Together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free."
To make new laws, to discover new truths, to invent new devices, to write books, to paint pictures is something measurable. For such creations the laurels of the world have been given in grateful tribute. To shape traditions, mold lives, increase another's efficiency, create harmony by eliminating chaos is not measurable. There are no statutes for these virtues. Yet, in every age and in every hamlet women have served as inspired companions of loved ones and friends, as guardians of the good and beautiful in life.
The role of woman as "companion," one of her noblest functions, has received but little attention from those who have written of the place of women in the world. From the individual biographies of the leaders of thought and affairs one may glean evidence of the sympathy, encouragement, and cooperation of mothers, wives, sisters, and companions that have aided in the achievement of success in the face of obstacles and despair. The encouragement given to Galileo by his loving daughter Marie Celeste, to Pasteur by his devoted wife, to William Herschell by the sacrifices of his sister are part of the progress of science. Inspired by the confidence and sympathy of woman's love Liszt, Wagner, Mozart, Chopin, and Beethoven yielded imperishable creations in the realm of music. Michelangelo speaks of the influence of his friend, Vittoria Colonna, as "the tool by which his genius had been formed". In the field of literature the examples are legion. Wordsworth writes of his beloved sister, Dorothy:
"She in the midst of all preserved me still A Poet, made me seek beneath that name And that alone, my office upon earth."
For the immortal Dante, Beatrice was "the solitary star" which directed him through all the vicissitudes of life, unlocking his brains and heart, thus guiding him to the sublime creation of "The Divine Comedy". These and many others are examples of what Aristotle terms as friendship: "The friendship that is communion."
THE supreme example of friendship that is "understanding" comes to us from the life of Mary of Bethany, her friendship with Jesus of Nazareth. The home of Mary, her sister Martha, and her brother Lazarus was a haven of refuge in the latter days of the ministry of Jesus. Homeless, misunderstood, and persecuted, Jesus, the Man of Sorrows, found comfort with these friends. As Jesus spoke to them of his mission to mankind it seemed that Mary realized more than Martha what Jesus needed, understanding, not nourishment. The humble associates of Jesus, His disciples, seemed unable to sense the significance of the events of those last weeks. It was to Martha Jesus had given assurances of everlasting life upon the death of Lazarus but with Mary Jesus wept. It was at the home of Simon that Mary's understanding was to be given supreme expression. Realizing the closeness of the death of Jesus she took the priceless ointment used in anointing for burial and kneeling at his feet, anointed him, seeking to comfort Jesus with an expression that might symbolize the everlasting power of his life. And Jesus understood Mary's act and was comforted by it, for He said of her, "She hath wrought a good work upon me. Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that also which this woman hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her."
It has been said of Mary of Bethany that of all the followers of Jesus she, more than anyone else, appreciated his deepest longings—she understood whether an unburdening of heart or an alabaster box was needed. The world today needs its Marys to help to teach the lessons of friendship. "Long after the menu has been forgotten, the companionship about the table remains the richest part of any feast." There is always the need of the instinct of Mary for friendship which is understanding to detect and satisfy the need in the life of another. There is also a great restless world about us, eager not so much for "the material delicacies of Martha's table as for the spiritual joys of Mary's companionship".
The inspiration of the great companionship of Saint Jerome and Paula of Rome has been lost to the world in the stupendous contribution of the Latin Vulgate of the Bible, yet its production was due to the intellectual and spiritual companionship of two great souls. Saint Jerome is best known today as the translator of the Bible from the original tongues into Latin from which translation all others have been made including the King James translation. Jerome as a young man was recognized by the Christian Church under Pope Damasus as the greatest authority upon the languages of the time. In the year 382 A. D. Jerome was given the task of revising the translations of the Gospels from the Greek. Because of his saintliness and his learning many of the patricians of Rome appealed to Jerome for instruction. A noble Roman matron upon becoming a Christian established a convent to which women could come for religious instruction. To this school Paula and her daughter, Eustochium, both widows, came for direction. Paula's keen intellect, superior knowledge of Latin and Greek, and her intense spirituality quickly appealed to Jerome as he worked with her at the convent.
So that Jerome could complete his great task he left Rome and established himself at Bethlehem building a tiny monastery near the scene of the Nativity. Later Paula and her daughter followed, giving all of their wealth to the establishment of a convent at Bethlehem. From the menial duties of the convent she assigned herself, Paula saved time to serve Jerome as scribe and translator. Under her encouragement the task assigned to Jerome was extended to the re-translation of the works of the major prophets and then to the historical and literary books of the Old Testament record. These saintly women through their encouragement and aid sustained and guarded Jerome. Many times he would have yielded to despair at the magnitude and difficulties of the task had it not been for Paula and Eustochium. The complete story of this prodigious undertaking, the Latin Vulgate, is little known but less known are the facts of the loving service, intellectual aid, and spiritual understanding of Paula. Paula died before the completion of the task, but Jerome gave to the world as he had promised her the completion of her dream, the Latin Vulgate of the Bible. For Jerome, Paula, and Eustochium the Christian Church gave the reward of sainthood, but from the world the friendship, holiness, profound learning, and supreme genius of the three receive tribute every time the pages of the Divine Library are turned and yield to humanity the testimony of God and His Divine Love.