AS MUCH as has been said of woman's gift of friendship, shall nothing be said of her great need of friendship? Her need, as great as man's, is met from the same sources as his in the realm of material and human contacts. Of friendships, woman for woman, none have been more beautiful than that of Ruth and Naomi. Never was the lonely heart of woman comforted more than when Ruth spoke to the sorrowing Naomi the words, "Whither thou goest, I will go... Your people shall be my people, your God shall be my God."
Many have been the admirers of George Eliot's great work, appreciating her understanding of those qualities of character which create tragedy and happiness in human lives. The Hetty Sorrels, the Tom and Maggie Tullivers, the Silas Marners, the Dolly Winthrops of life have more meaning for us because of George Eliot's unforgettable portrayals. Only a few courageous biographers have given credit to George Henry Lewes for his contribution to this great author. He it was who gave up his life work as author and literary critic to protect, encourage, and inspire George Eliot. To Mary Ann Evans, the critic of the Westminster Review, he pointed the way to become a novelist. For him she was a great cause. Truly "they rose to greatness together."
What shall be said of the greatest of all companionships, marriage? The greatest of earthly joys have come to man through the sacred ties of marriage as also have come the greatest tragedies when the mystery of death has severed those ties. The great quest for evidence of immortality has received its greatest impetus from man's desire for the continuation of the loving associations of earth life for all eternity. The greatest truth given to the world by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times is that marriage is to be for eternity, that man's everlasting joy and progress depends upon his completion through marriage. Happiness through self-completion is the goal of those who know God's purposes. With this supreme concept of eternal progress and happiness must come the understanding that marriage must be more than physical attraction and satisfaction; it must be more than intellectual harmony; it must be a spiritual companionship.
Woman's ability for friendship lies not in her learning but in her understanding; not in her rank or calling but in her spirit, for "the humblest light may kindle a light brighter than its own". To have Mary's sacred gift of understanding is the desire of every woman seeking to fill her sacred role of "Interpreter of the Faith" for her generation and those to follow.