Apostle Melvin Joseph Ballard
By Belle S. Spafford
AN overwhelming loss came to the Church Sunday evening, July 30, 1939, in the passing of Apostle Melvin J. Ballard, following a brief illness. Born of sturdy pioneer parentage, who assisted in the establishment of our great Western Empire, Elder Ballard has with diligence and faith devoted his life to the establishment of the work of the Lord in many parts of the world.
Henry and Margaret McNeil Ballard, parents of Apostle Ballard, early located in the beautiful Cache Valley of Northern Utah. Many hardships attended early life there, but their strong testimony that God lives and overrules to bring about the perfection of his obedient children never wavered. A few years prior to the birth of Melvin... "when the clouds of darkness hovered long about them, the mother, with a broken heart and contrite spirit bowed in solemn supplication before her Father, and received the assuring comfort that she should be given a son who would be numbered among the Apostles of the Lamb, and to her last day she maintained that this would come to pass just as it had been revealed to her." (L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Andrew Jensen)
In harmony with this revelation to his mother, Elder Ballard was ordained an Apostle, January 7, 1919, by President Heber J. Grant. This high calling came at the age of 46, as a culmination of years of devotion and tireless service to the Church in ward and stake capacities.
For many years one of the Church's leading missionaries, Brother Ballard's power and influence has been felt near and far. He has organized stakes, he has filled special missionary assignments, for ten years he presided over the Northwestern States Mission. In 1925 he opened the South American Mission. He has labored with zeal in the interest of the Religion Class, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, serving at one time as Assistant General Superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A. He has always been a staunch and considerate friend of Relief Society.
Blessed with a studious mind and great spiritual insight, coupled with an unusual gift of oratory, his services have been constantly in demand throughout the Church and elsewhere. Because of his earnest desire to serve, his response to all calls has been most generous. Perhaps the Church has had no more energetic servant.
His unusual gift of music has brought joy not only to himself but to thousands of souls. For years he has been chairman of the Church Music Committee, and under his supervision the latest Church Psalmody was published. Through his efforts a finer appreciation of good music has been awakened.
His boyhood experiences, no doubt, gave him a keen understanding of the heart of a boy and led toward his great activity among the youth, so evidenced by his work in the Boy Scout movement. Love for humanity which expressed itself in both spiritual and material administrations has always been characteristic of this great leader. As a little boy holding the office of Deacon, he took delight in chopping wood for widows and those in need. It was his custom to spend a part of each Christmas day, with a sleigh as a vehicle, in distributing gifts which had been given through his father, the Bishop, for the blessing and comfort of those in need.
It is but reasonable that one so endowed with the interests of the unfortunate should be chosen as chairman of the Church Welfare Program, when it was established in the spring of 1936. His faith in the Welfare Program was expressed in these words: "It is the greatest thing in the Church today. It must not, it will not fail." At the time of his passing he was acting as advisor to the present General Welfare Committee.
A man of magnetic personality and easily approached, his advice has frequently been sought by those in need of comfort and guidance, and all who came to him have met with tender understanding and wise counsel. His innumerable religious, business, and civic activities have endeared him to thousands—his friends are legion. Truly a man of God, devoted to the uplift of humanity, his life has been as the Master would have it be.
Counting him a special friend of Relief Society, the General Presidency and General Board mourn with Sister Ballard and her family, and pray that our Father's comforting influence will attend them.
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord... That they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow after them." (Rev. 14:13)
The work of the Lord has been advanced immeasurably through the ministry of Elder Melvin J. Ballard, a gifted man, a genuine Latter-day Saint.