The Sea Lion Cave By Dorothy Nell Mair
SUMMERTIME brings vacation days, and vacation days bring the question, where shall we go? Motorists throughout the nation will this year, perhaps more than any other, include the popular trip down the entire stretch of Pacific Coast. Every mile of the way is filled with scenic beauty, said by some to excel the famed Amalfi drive of southern Italy. Beginning at Seattle, Washington and continuing on south over the coast highway through the forest of giant redwoods and on into San Francisco and the Golden Gate Exposition gives one a most delightful tour. It is one which should not be rushed through, for there are side shows along the way that are well worth stopping for.
Yet, vacationists by the thousands speed on down this beautiful strip and in the rush to arrive at some prearranged point overlook many interesting spots along the way. One frequently passed by, for the sake of conserving time, and which never should be passed by without regret, is the Sea Lion Cave.
The cave itself is three hundred feet directly below the main coast highway near the small town of Florence, Oregon. All sea caverns are mysterious and interesting, but three things make this one unusual: First, it is the only known mainland home for sea lions; other such rookeries are rocks and cliffs apart from the coastline. Second, nowhere else on this continent are seen those colorful sea-loving birds, the Pigeon Guillemots. Third, and possibly most unique of all, the sea lions and the birds live today in the same unmolested freedom they have known for many years in the past. They have chosen this home for themselves, and it is among the very few places left on the North American continent where wild life lives in its natural habitat without fear of a hunting season.
The cave was originally formed during the Ice Age. As the centuries rolled by, battering waves of the Pacific Ocean enlarged it. Today it is fifteen hundred feet long, one hundred feet from floor to ceiling, and has three entrances. One of these entrances is a corridor extending through the cliffs toward the sea for one thousand feet. The main cavern has a beautiful dome-shaped ceiling, and jagged rocks and ledges project above the water that covers the floor. Other rooms in the cavern are upon a higher level, and the floors are perfectly dry, permitting one to explore. The whole interior is lighted by a ghostly green glow. This eerie light reflects upon the ceiling and the walls where the Pigeon Guillemots are nesting. Threading like ribbons through those walls are sulphur-colored streaks of volcanic ash, deposited thousands of years ago. At one time those streaks were the earth's surface. Today three hundred feet of solid rock cliffs rise above them. Around their base waves hammer in a constant rhythm, chiseling arches and fantastic patterns through the rocks. They have smoothed the sharp ledges where the sea lions bask and play in the sun. The precipitousness of the cliffs protects the mammals from human intrusion on their own bathing beach.
This is the rookery for the Stellar sea lions, the largest known variety and also the most quarrelsome. It is mid-July when the herd begins to congregate upon the rock ledges near the cavern. By Labor Day many hundreds have returned, and there will often be as many as one thousand in the winter herd. They stay until the first sunny days of March. After that they grow restless and begin to roam up and down the coastline, going into the northern waters of the Arctic and into southern waters as well.
There seems to be an understanding between the sea lions and the Pigeon Guillemots. When the sea lions begin to leave the cave in March, the Pigeon Guillemots move in and nest among the crevices of the rock walls. The birds leave in September when the winter inhabitants again return.
The Pigeon Guillemots are colorful birds having red, webbed feet and a large patch of white on each black wing. In shape they resemble our domestic pigeon, only much larger. They also utter a shrill cooing note as they wing about the cliffs. Their habits, however, are not at all like those of our domestic pigeons, for they love the water and prefer to roost on the waves. Out upon the Pacific Ocean they spend most of their lives. Returning to the cave in March, they lay their eggs among the rocks and return to the sea each day. In July the eggs hatch, and parent birds fly back and forth from sea to cave all day long, feeding their young small fish at half-hour intervals. The young birds stay in the nest until September. Even by then they do not have their beautiful plumage and have to go to sea in their swaddling clothes when the entire flock flies out over the ocean. Where they spend their winters no one knows, but they are not seen again until spring comes and it is time to rear another family.
Fortunate indeed is the vacationist who arrives at this spectacular spot during the month of August, for then the cave is filled with the colorful birds and a good representation of the Stellar sea lions. To view at close range a large sea lion weighing nearly two thousand pounds as he lolls lazily upon the rocks but a few feet away adds an experience to your vacation trip which will not soon be forgotten.
"To awaken each morning with a smile brightening my face, to greet the day with reverence for the opportunities it contains; to approach my work with a clean mind; to hold ever before me, even in the doing of little things, the Ultimate Purpose toward which I am working; to meet men and women with laughter on my lips and love in my heart; to be gentle, kind and courteous through all the hours; to approach the night with weariness that ever woos sleep and the joy that comes from work well done—this is how I desire to waste wisely my days."—Thomas Dreier.