Good Taste In Home Decorating By I. A. Fisher
What we do and what we appreciate is what we do and appreciate. Each era is largely judged by its cultural attainments. This truth makes evident the tremendous importance of making life as fine as possible, since what we do and what we appreciate places us not only in the era to which we belong but also in our individual niche in that era.
Since the beginning of time there have been many eras in which the people of that day reached cultural perfection in their period: The Persians, the Chinese, the Greeks, the Goths, the Renaissance, the Victorian and so on. Today we are near the cultural perfection of another great period; an age, whose beauty, grandeur and magnificence will make all others seem so nothing that we can only describe our position by saying, "We cannot see the forest for the trees."
No other period has been so abrupt or developed so swiftly. Fast transportation, electricity, radio, television, new conveniences, new thinking and new living all demand new backgrounds — backgrounds where people eat, sleep, work and play. The tables they eat from, the beds they sleep in, the desks they write on... All must define the people that use them.
Older generations have never been concerned with purity of style. Functionalism combined with beauty of design never entered their minds. They bought what their neighbors bought, not what was right, but what was stylish. They were perfectly willing to mix Persian, Turkish, or Indian rugs with Duncan Phyfe, Early American or Queen Anne. They put style correctness before comfort, fashion before design, and smartness before common sense. Nearly always the results were tawdry, over-draped festoonery that was utterly repugnant.
There is nothing more ridiculous than a Duncan Phyfe table on a Chinese rug, a Spanish house filled with Chippendale, or an Indian rug in a white man's house. A winged chair, no matter how practical before the fireplace of a draughty room in a manorial mansion, is out of place in a modern apartment.
Floor coverings have always been obtrusive and depressing. People still buy rugs and carpets with ridiculous floral designs and gaudy and depressing colors. Yet the market is filled with beautiful varied textured rugs from very soft to very shaggy pile, self-patterned adder-toned rugs in the loveliest neutral tones and soft pastel shades that would brighten and make cheerful any home.
Color is something quite capable of taking dimensional form and depth, and its beauty is unlimited. Yet we have always had the habit of painting backgrounds in drab colors, not from choice or good taste, but from practicality. Almost all wallpaper is incongruous because of overdesign and drab or intense colors, but people still buy it because it is practical. Such practical people forget that the joy of living is part of life itself.
New metals, new plies, new woods and new fabrics are not only fascinating but offer a million new possibilities. Women today have far more technical knowledge about interior decoration than any other age. Children play with streamlined toys and feel the influence of modern life on every side. The only two great retarding factors probably are that merchants still buy what they think they can sell... And that the public fears drastic changes. A few brave souls blaze a trail, but the rest are like the man, who desiring to be humane, chopped off his dog's tail a little at a time.
The modern home will come, and eventually everyone will have one possessing some degree of beauty and individuality. Those with good taste and determination will of course enjoy a combination of comfort and beauty beyond all description.