What Is Public Health? By Dr. J. L. Jones, Utah State Health Commissioner
"Public health is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging life and promoting physical and mental efficiency through organized community effort."—Dr. M. J. Rosenau, Emeritus Professor of Public Health, Harvard University.
It is to be emphasized that public health service has to do with the promotion of positive health and the prevention of disease, in all their various aspects, but not with the treatment of disease. The entire field of medical care and corrective procedures is, and properly should be, the province of the practicing physician and dentist. The purpose and value of public health service is briefly but well stated in the following statement by the Public Health Advisory Committee to the State Planning Board:
"Next to the immediate needs of food and shelter, there is no matter of greater importance to the individual or to the public at large than health. On it depends the individual's happiness as well as the efficiency of work; whether he will be an asset to the community, or a liability to the society of which he forms a part. The health of many individuals becomes the health of a people. It may be said that the effectiveness of a whole people in their work of development of the resources on which they live, in their ability to enjoy life, as well as their power of reproduction and continuation of the line of progress, depends on health. On account of this, health is very much a concern of the public at large, it is a matter of public welfare."
The great educator, Charles W. Eliot, wrote: "Nothing is better worth paying for than public health. There is no more profitable form of conservation than saving and prolonging human life; and no more abominable waste than that caused by preventable sickness and premature death."
Former President Herbert Hoover wrote of the purpose and value of public health in his message to Congress in 1929: "The advance in scientific discovery as to disease and health, imposes new considerations upon us. The Nation as a whole is vitally interested in the health of all the people; in protection from spread of contagious disease; in the relation of physical and mental disabilities to criminality, and in the economic and moral advancement which is fundamentally associated with sound body and mind. The organization of preventive measures and health education, in its personal application, is the province of public health service. Such organization should be as universal as public education. Its support is a proper burden upon the taxpayer. It can not be organized with success, either in its sanitary or educational phases, except under public authority. It should be based upon local and state responsibility, but I consider that the Federal Government has an obligation of contribution, to the establishment of such agencies...."
President Franklin D. Roosevelt, while Governor of the State of New York, wrote: "The success or failure of any government in the final analysis must be measured by the wellbeing of its citizens. Nothing can be more important to a state than its public health; the state's paramount concern should be the health of its people."
DR. LOUIS I. DUBLIN, vice-president and statistician of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, in his book, "Health and Wealth" (pages 5-6), stated a money-value of human life and made a scientific estimate of the amount wasted through failure to conserve the greatest asset of any nation—its human life. We quote Dr. Dublin:
"The value in dollars and cents of the male and female population of the United States is estimated at one trillion, five hundred billion dollars. This represents our vital assets, assets in human lives.
"Our material wealth, consisting of real property, livestock, machinery, agricultural and mineral assets, and manufactured products, is estimated to be worth three hundred and twenty-one billion dollars.
"Hence, our capital in human lives exceeds our material wealth by about five to one. Is it not, therefore, worth an expenditure of $2.50 per person per year to safeguard the health of this mighty national asset, human lives?
"Sickness costs directly in lost wages, reduced production and necessary sick care, two and one-quarter billion dollars annually ($9,000,000 for Utah).
"The total capital value of lives which can be saved every year through the application of modern preventive medicine and public health measures is over six billion dollars.
"Every year more than 30,000 young people between the ages of 25 and 29 die from entirely preventable illnesses. Their capital value is seven hundred and fifty million dollars.
"Every year 120,000 babies die in the first year of life from preventable diseases, due either to the ignorance of mothers, the indifference of the communities where they live, or both. The capital value of these babies is seven hundred and fifty million dollars.
"Not to provide adequate health protection is to squander the greatest asset in national life, allowing a 'pennywise, pound foolish' practice to run up losses far more costly. Sickness is always expensive. The cost of preventing disease is seldom more than a small fraction of the cost of the disease itself.
"Economy in public health, therefore, demands adequate appropriations for providing health services of proven effectiveness in every locality according to its needs."
Conservation of the human resource is one of our most imperative public responsibilities. The State Board of Health has the legal responsibility for leadership in this function.