[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 418 | Special Feature | For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva | B. Ashton]
The only difference is that For Successful Family Home Evenings the reasons or activities may be different. In the winter there are school activities, studies, social events, and other such involve- "ments. In the summer it may be employment, summer trips, and so forth. In making the transition from winter to summer activities and interests, we may neglect planning for Family Home Evening and miss several weeks almost before we realize it. We. Are thus neglecting. Opportunities to strengthen ourselves and our families even though bad habits and bad influences are still at work. In the Southern Hemisphere the process for seasonal planning would be reversed. The qualities and habits of a happy home life can be learned or developed. The qualities which make a good, happy home can be acquired. It is extremely important that a concerted effort be made to bring family members closer together. It requires planning and effort. It is not easy nor automatic. If we should have learned one thing from our Cultural Refinement lessons this past year, it is that any improvement in personality benefits the one making the improvement more than anyone else. The mother who treats her family with love and consideration will not only bless her family, but will have significant personal growth and personal inner happiness. Perhaps those who will benefit the most from holding regular Family Home Evenings will be ourselves—the women. We need not look at our children nor our husbands as having a monopoly on the need to apply gospel teach- 

419 June 1967

 ings in their lives. If we do not possess "'their" faults we must assuredly have "our"? Own to overcome. I interviewed many women in the preparation of this article and, in every case where Family Home Evening is being held regularly, the woman expressed her conviction of its great worth in the growth of love, understanding, and loyalty within the family. Not one, however, said this success came easily. It is a continuing challenge. In every case where thoughtful and creative planning of the Family Home Evening has been carried out, I universally received the response that the results did merit the effort and planning. The change of routine from winter to summer can have an exhilarating effect on the Family Home Evenings, if families plan for it and are cognizant of the opportunities. Family Home Evening may be held in different surroundings out-of-doors: around a campfire, in a back yard, in a canyon, or on a family overnight camp. Home evening may be held with relatives or at an historic or sentimental place. It may even be held in a car as a family travels together. Some of the most intimate visits with family members or friends have been while traveling. The physical closeness tends to create an emotional closeness. All of the elements of safety should be observed, and family members should be well-rested and not overly hungry. Most Family Home Evenings, in both winter and summer, however, will be held in home surroundings. This is not nec- 420 essarily a detriment. The women I interviewed did make suggestions as to things which have helped make their Family Home Evenings more enjoyable and meaningful and, since they may be helpful, I should like to share their ideas with you. RELAXED ATMOSPHERE At the conclusion of a thoroughly frustrating Family Home Evening, when one child had been sent to his room and others had vied with each other to lead the singing or play the piano or outspeak one another, and had been corrected in rather loud and harsh tones, the woman said to her husband in the privacy of their own room, "Honey, if ever there is a time in our home when love is not present it is when we try to hold Family Home Evening. It seems to do more harm than good in our family." Knowing the importance of following the counsel of our Church leaders, they decided carefully to evaluate what was happening to cause this failure. Among other things, they decided there were three primary areas of weakness: (1) Their Family Home Evening was a strict teaching situation. They decided to encourage a more relaxed atmosphere. (2) Through actions and comments of the husband and father, it was made to appear as '"Mommy's" home evening. He came to realize that he was creating an impression he had not meant to give. He became convinced of the importance of his role of leadership and of presiding. (3) Assignments were made in = advance for leading the singing, playing the piano, or other participation, so that children were not "yelling" for the privilege of doing those things. These very few and simple adaptations have since created an entirely different atmosphere in their Family Home Evenings. TEEN-AGERS Don't be overly sensitive to teen-agers' reactions. They often enjoy Family Home Evenings and get more out of them than one would ever guess from observing them. Don't terminate Family Home Evenings just because they don't bubble over with enthusiasm. After a sixteen-year-old daughter had destroyed the spirit of teachability and love of a home evening through her bored expressions, disinterested attitude, and flippant replies, the mother had a private conversation with her. Ee oe Left to Right: Owen R., Wendell J., Belva, Marged (holding baby), Allyson, Kay Rem: The mother asked, "Jane, do you believe the gospel is true?" The daughter, abashed at such a seemingly foolish question, responded, "Well, Mom, that's a silly question. You know I do." To which the mother said, "If you were a parent and were commanded to hold Family Home Evening, would you hold it?" The girl responded in the affirmative, and the mother said, 'That's what Dad and I are trying to do, but your attitude makes it very difficult for us. The younger children look up to you and want to do the same things that you do. You could help make it a success." "I'm sorry, Mother." This direct, private, and polite conversation made a big difference in that home. The father who was then an Aaronic Priesthood adult began to teach the lessons and preside at the home evenings. His own teachable spirit was influenced through those les- 

421 June 1967

 sons and other Church activities, and he has now taken his wife to the temple. This family attests to the wonderful influence of these lessons in their lives. SIMPLIFY We often allow our lives to become too complicated. One mother told me that the greatest contribution she feels she makes toward a successful home evening is to plan her personal activities on that day toward being ready for home evening. She has learned through experience to eliminate the extra errand, the additional chore, or the brief stop at the grocery store or cleaners. She decided it was necessary to keep her life as simple as possible on that day. With the right kind of preparation in the home, she found dinner could be served on time and home evening could then start on schedule. Older children were willing to participate because they realized they could count on when it would be over. PERSONALIZE The lessons which are most successful and have the greatest appeal are those which are personal to the family. The more this can be done, the better. In one Family Home Evening before the eldest daughter was married, the family, quite casually, under the direction of the father, expressed how much this sister and daughter had meant to each of them and how much they would miss her. It was one of the sweetest and happiest moments in their family life to hear their returned missionary son tell of his love and appreciation for his sis- 422 ter, and how much he would miss sharing confidences with her. Another family took a lesson on pioneer heritage during an outing at Lake Powell. Several families of cousins were along, and the entire group climbed to Hole in the Rock and heard true stories of their own ancestors and other pioneers. Being in such rugged, beautiful surroundings, it was easier to visualize some of the physical hardships which their forefathers had experienced. Another mother had _ been working on personal histories of progenitors. She had pictures and stories, and each child chose which progenitor he would tell about. The family members divided into groups of two or three so that older children could help younger ones and, after a time of preparation, they made their reports to the family. Each progenitor thus discussed has become more real to the members of that family. TIMING Young children do not have the ability to sit quietly for long periods of time, and older members of the family often have commitments which require them to be free at a certain time. On special occasions, when agreed upon by family members, home evening activities may take longer than usual, but, in general, young people will cooperate in reserving time for home evening if they know when it will end. PRESCHOOLERS Many good suggestions are presented in the Family Home Evening Manual for adapting home evening lessons to very young children. Simply making a special occasion by putting a tablecloth on a certain table, playing games, or having a favorite person come in, will develop an atmosphere of anticipation and fulfillment toward family-centered activities. This will not only make little ones happy at the time, but will build a wonderful attitude toward future home evenings when deeper lessons can be taught. GRANDPARENTS Ideas have been presented in this and other Church publications for making home evenings valuable and _ interesting for couples whose families are no longer at home. In addition to enriching their own lives, if they know the lesson material in the Family Home Evening Manual, grandparents can often be a blessing to their children and grandchildren by (1) reinforcing teachings which have been presented by the parents, or (2) discussing lesson information and appropriate stories with grandchildren who may not have Family Home Evenings. One grandmother told me she cherished such an opportunity of sharing gospel truths with her grandchildren on a level of 'their ability to understand. The guidance of. The Family Home Evening Manual in this situation is most helpful. LISTEN TO CHILDREN Home evening can be a wonderful opportunity for parents to listen to their children, as well as teach them. Make it possible For Successful Family Home Evenings for the reticent child to talk. He will not fight distractions. EXPERIMENT If your Family Home Evening is working well, then continue as you are doing. If, on the other hand, it is not working as well as you would like, experiment with other ways of doing things. Be alert to new ideas, but above all don't give up... Keep trying. There are solutions and the effort will be worth it to everyone in your family. It is important to have Family Home Evening and it is equally important that parents take the time to plan and prepare for home evening. One cannot teach the material in a personal, meaningful way if thought has not been given to it. To bury one's nose in the manual, to use every illustration or story which is written, or not to relate the material to one's own family, can be "quick death" to interest and personal involvement. In the introductory remarks of the Family Home Evening Manual it says: "No other family is just like yours. Everything in any lesson may not be appropriate for your family. Please omit material which you or your children do not need or could not relate to. This will give you more time to get involved with the application and assignment. The idea is not to go from one subject to another as fast as you can, but rather from a bad habit to a good habit. In our homes, let us change Robert Frost's words to these: "Home is the place where, when you want to go there, they want to take you in." 423 s The fundamental principles of the everlasting gospel were presented in strength and beauty at EDITORIAL the 137th Annual Church Conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6th, 8th, and = 9th, 1967. This year, the great —— = _ —— + domed Tabernacle, once called ''a I glory in the desert,'' is one hundred years old, and within its sacred walls the voices of latterThe 137th Annual I day prophets and apostles have counseled the saints; and anthems Church Conference of praise have been heard throughout a century. In addition to the usual radio and television coverage in many countries of the world, the first — transmission of proceedings to Mexico and Central America com- ' forted and inspired an estimated three million viewers and listeners. The Sunday morning session was Volume 54 June 1967

Number 6 Wi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Pacific Ocean. President David O. McKay, beloved prophet, seer, and revelator, now in his ninety-fourth year, preAnna B. Hart Hazel S. Love;: Edith S. Elliott Fawn H. Sharp sided at all sessions and appeared Florence J. Madsen Celestia J. Taylor in the Tabernacle personally for Leone G. Layton Anne R. Gledhill; Evon W. Peterson Zola J. McGhie morning and Sunday morning. He Aleine M. Young Oa J. Cannon. Josie B. Bay Lila B. Walch watched the other sessions by Mildred B. Eyring Marjorie C. Pingree nal re ye G Ee Semen McKay.