[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 472 | Lesson |  | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alberta H. Christensen » The general guideline for the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967-68 is that of Light and Truth. The Priesthood manual will include some lessons which deal with Priesthood oriented responsibilities and Priesthood administered ordinances. Others will be on subjects in which all Church membership participate. The companion Relief Society lessons will correlate with those Priesthood lessons which have a corresponding application in a woman's personal life and in the individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. As heretofore, the correlation may be close in some cases; in other lessons the general subject used in 472 the Priesthood lessons will be followed, but with different emphasis. Again, as in previous lessons, class involvement is important. To listen is not necessarily to learn. Therefore, to promote active discussion within the class period and to motivate individual action beyond the hour in one's personal life, the involvement procedure will continue to be used. Scriptural quotations, a pertinent question, a provocative statement, life-situation cases, a sociodrama, or fragments of conversation as aids to involvement, will continue to appear within the. Lessons. Class leaders who make full use of these participation helps should have very little temptation or opportunity to retain the lecture method. Instead of presenting a lesson, there will be a development of ideas embraced in the lesson. All class members should participate by actually reacting Lesson Previews mentally and vocally expressing themselves. Only when this is done may the lesson reach its full potential. A forward look at the lessons for the coming year will be of interest to the social relations class leaders. Lesson 1—''Seek Learning, Even By Study' (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: Latter-day Saints have been commanded by the Lord to seek learning by study and also by faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who complies with this commandment and who uses the acquired knowledge for good, will enrich her mortal life and be eternally blessed. Lesson 2——''And Also By Faith' (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman may know the blessing of truth revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of faith. Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: ''Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid' (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being "a light unto the world." Lesson 4—What Will They Remember? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. Lesson 5—Do I Live What I Say? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that integrity is essential to all rewarding human relationships. Lesson 6—Of Thoughts and of Words (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that ''For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he' (Prov. 23:7). 473 July 1967 Lesson 7—Home and the School (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To point out that an understanding of the purposes of education on all levels is of value to both mother and student. Lesson 8—"'That's What They Say, Mamma'"' (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—-1967-68 Dr. Bruce B. Clark s A program in literature has been functioning for three years with the addition, a year ago, of music and art as a cultural refinement course. For the first two years (1964-65 and 1965-66) Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books was used, focusing upon developing individual values. During the year 1966-67, Volume 2 has been used, focusing upon home and family problems and ideals as_ seen through literature and the related arts. The program for 1967-68 will be a continuation of the present program—that is, the central focus for another year will be on intelligent family living as seen through literature and the related arts. Materials are published in Volume 3 of Out of the Best Books. As during the past three years, so again for 1967-68, the emphasis will be upon the works of literature and art and music themselves, rather than upon 474 authors' lives or historical background. Such an emphasis is intended to encourage stimulating discussion and an exchange of ideas with all the insight into life and life's values that selections from the world's great literature, music, and art can yield. Also, continuing concern will be given to harmonizing literature and art with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. An obligation, as members of the Church, is to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fulness of the gospel that they contain. But, beyond these, we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values— and with exposing and opposing selfishness, materialism, shallowness, and all things harmful to human personality or destructive in human relationships. There will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward class leaders can select those most useful for their group. And, again, the sisters should be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight, but, also, because it stirs readers to think, evaluate, and aspire. As we approach another year of study it is good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection, we should be left thinking, not with all questions Lesson Previews answered, but with sufficient insight so that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and to achieve life's eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the cultural refinement course, we should remember that the course will be fully successful only if we apply the lessons in our own lives, and carry them into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom and beauty of music, good literature, and art, as well as their delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, music, and art, plus some skill in analyzing these arts; and one of the best ways to do these things is to discuss and enjoy literature, music, and art as a family group in the home. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1967-68 are as follows: Lesson 1—by Robert K. Thomas: ''A Glad Heart" "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance.''—Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson.