[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 442 | Fiction | Variations of the Tortilla Leanor | J. Brown]
Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown Member, General! Board of Relief Society, Mexico City, Mexico There was a time when the tortilla held no special place in my cookbook. Now I wonder how I ever got along without it. It makes a base for a variety of palatable casseroles, and is the essential part of those delectable concoctions called tostadas and tacos. There was also a time when I thought the tortilla belonged to all Latin America. Actually it is a food product of Mexico and Central America. If you were to ask for a tortilla in South America, they would probably give you a Spanish omelette. A toria is a cake in South America—at least in Southern South America—and in Mexico it is a sandwich. By dropping the a and adding the illa, you get what Mexico uses as the staff of life, or the unleavened bread made from corn. Another food that usually goes along with the tortilla is hot chili. Hot chili dishes and sauces do not go much farther south than the Mexican border in the Americas.. Each Latin country has its own particular method of preparing foods. The most southern countries, such as Argentina and Uruguay, are greatly influenced by European cuisine, since the people are mostly of European origin. And of all things! Chile doesn't know what chili is—at least the hot, edible kind—and in Spanish chili is spelled chile. Have you ever wondered why we in North America call Mexican food Spanish food? They are entirely different. Spanish food is paella (rice cooked with seafoods, and all things great and small), flavored with tomatoes, onions, bell peppers, and other seasonings. Mexican food is tortillas, beans, enchiladas, tamales, tacos, and the like, most of which you couldn't find in Spain if you searched from San Sebastian to Sevilla. 442 Another interesting discovery I have made is that American - Mexican food, the kind you get in parts of the Southwestern United States, and the MexicoMexican food have very little in common. They neither look nor _ taste alike, although many dishes are called by the same names. Both are equally good, but very different. The latter is somewhat hotter! The following recipes have as a base the corn tortilla. You won't find them on the menu of any restaurant or in any cookbook, except a private one, because they are the result of attempting to please per- (Continued on page 462

Birthday Congratulations, June 23, 1967 PART I EARLY HOME LIFE, MARRIAGE, AND CHILDREN Emma Rae McKay Ashton » Emma Louise Riggs, the happy mother, was startled from her reverie by a banging door and the sound of running in the hall. The two boys are up, she thought. When the boys reached her room, nine-year-old Ned exclaimed, "'Where's the new baby? May we see her?" "Can she play with us? What does she look like?' echoed Lester, who was five. 

405 June 1967

 99 "Come in and see for yourselves."' The lively youngsters pushed open the door and rushed to their mother's bedside, their father close behind joining them. Emma, raising herself on one elbow, tenderly lifted her tiny treasure from the covers for the trio to see more clearly. At first they laughed. She was so small and pink. As they examined each tiny feature, they were delighted, and with happy exclamations, welcomed into the family circle their new baby sister. "She is like a ray of sunshine," beamed the happy father. "Her name shall be Ray—Emma Ray Riggs." I t was June 23, 1877. Emma Louise had awakened early. As she gazed lovingly at the wee miracle nestled in her arms, she could hardly contain her happiness. A little girl had arrived in their home. As she expressed her gratitude in silent supplication for this sweet spirit, at the same time she prayed that her little one might be spared. The Riggs family had lost two of their sons. Walter, two years younger than Ned, died at six months, and Lester's twin, Harold, had lived only a month and a half. Though the mortality rate for infants was high in those days, and many mothers experienced this tragedy, this failed to lessen the sorrow felt by these loving parents. With her cheerful smile and sunny disposition, Ray's presence through the years brought much love and lightened the hearts of all in the household. Two years later, when baby Lawrence was born, the family's joy was complete. Two months following Emma Ray's birth, President Brigham Young died, a sorrow to their community and to the Church as a whole. Many tales were told of President Young's personal interest in his people. This family story Ray often heard related in her childhood. One day, her mother, whose handsome hair had grown too long and too thick to manage properly, stopped at the barber shop. Inside she met President Young, who inquired, "Emma Louise Riggs, what are you doing here?" "I've come to have my hair cut, President Young." "Your beautiful hair is your crowning glory. You go right home. I forbid you to let the barber touch it!"" She obeyed, turmmed around, and walked out. But later, she returned to have it cut. Ray grew up in happy surroundings. Her father, Obadiah H. Riggs had built their home at 56 North 2d West Street in Salt Lake City. In her childhood she played ball and marbles sometimes with her brothers, but most of her activity was shared with her two cousins, 406 Photograph by C. R. Savage Emma Ray Riggs (center) with her brothers Lester (sitting o table at the left) and Ned (standing at the right) Nell and Bell Barrett, who lived next door. By the hour they played jacks, jump the rope, and hopscotch. When the snow was heavy in the wintertime, they took turns riding on a sled. Her home was one of culture, refinement, and love: The family members, as Ray grew older, loved to play and sing together, not only the popular songs of the day, but music of the masters as well. Much has been said about their mother's love for music. She taught her children to love it, too. Ned, her oldest brother, dark and handsome, an outstanding athlete—ball player and fancy skater—had inherited his mother's strong voice and musical talent. An entertainer at heart, he spent hours in the evenings playing the piano, singing the operas of the day from memory, and telling humorous stories. Often Lester joined his older brother with his sweet tenor, and Ray's rich contralto harmonized beautifully with her brothers' voices in duets and trios. Lester was the literary one. He worked on the school paper, was an active member of the school's debating society, memorized quickly and could 

407 June 1967

 quote Shakespeare fluently. His interest later turned to law, which he studied and subsequently practiced for a short time. Ray, eager to learn, was especially happy when she could read. Instruction was given at the elementary and high school held in the original Seventeenth Ward meetinghouse on Second North between West Temple and First West Streets, a few blocks from her home. At last she could discover for herself the secrets contained in those volumes in her father's library. Of the many books he had brought from the East, one set was especially inviting to Ray, Junior Classics, the best from the world's greatest authors. She was in her glory as she read, and read, and read. In fact she read so much, her mother was afraid she would impair her eyesight. Hen she wasn't reading, she was practicing the piano. Drilling the scales, playing her exercises, or memorizing a favorite selection were seldom a drudgery, but a pleasure. The instrument upon which she played was one of the handsomest in the valley. This stately, mahogany grand piano, with elaborately carved legs, had journeyed across the plains. It was one of three brought to Salt Lake City by John R. Robbins and presented to his daughter Emma Louise Riggs. It was a source of pride and boundless pleasure for members of the Riggs family, their friends, and acquaintances. Frequently, Ray's mother took time from her voice and piano pupils to teach her daughter. All her life Ray not only enjoyed this talent herself, but she brought many hours of pleasure to others with her playing. From her mother and grandmother Robbins, Ray learned the art of homemaking. She helped with the daily household chores, with the cooking and cleaning. If one of the coal-oil lamps was low in oil, sputtered with an untrimmed wick, or failed to produce a bright light because of a cloudy chimney, it was Ray's fault. The lamps were, for the most part, her responsibility. It was late one Saturday afternoon when Ray finished cleaning her grandmother's house. "Is that all right, Grandma?" she questioned, hoping for a word of praise for her afternoon's work. "Oh, I guess so," sighed her grandmother. "Just tell me what else you want done and I'll be glad to do it," offered the willing Ray. "You haven't dusted the tops of the pictures." Ray complied by doing this. Her grandmother expected thorough- 408