[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 444 | Fiction | Mix-and-Match Wardrobes | Ethelynn Keiser]
Match Wardrobes Ethelynn Keiser Work Director, San Jose West Stake (California) By developing the craft of sewing, and by thoughtfully planning to make the most of the sewing dollar, the Mix-and-Match Wardrobe is the answer to a "basic" problem. It is not only an economical way to have an excellent wardrobe, but it provides better made, better fitting, more original wardrobes, and a sense of creative accomplishment when a beautiful article of clothing is completed. In making a Mix-andMatch Wardrobe, it is a challenge in design to start with a three-color theme. First, choose a fabric, either plaid, check, tweed, or print, and from this tri-colored fabric, the theme is selected for combining the matchmates for the rest of the outfit. Skirts, blouses, sweaters, jackets, jumpers, and weskits are all perfect matching partners. Any piece of the wardrobe, such as the suit, the dress, or the skirt, or weskit can be made of the tri-colored fabric. The rest of the pieces should be selected carefully so that the colors and fabrics can be worn compatibly together. Four beautifully designed and carefully sewed outfits were made for display and modeling at the San Jose West Stake fashion show, three of which are described and illustrated here. I. A Many Purpose (Everyday) Wardrobe The first model, Addie Jensen, had chosen to make a many-purpose (everyday) wardrobe suitable for Church, Relief Society, luncheons, or other similar occasions. She chose a bright print of orange, yellow, and olive green of 100 per cent rayon. From this tri-color fabric, she picked her color theme and made a beautiful mix-and-match wardrobe. There were (Continued) 444 Fabrics for use with models on page 445 Everyday Wardrobe #1 eight different articles of clothing in her wardrobe, and these pieces combined in various attractive ways gave her fourteen different mix-and-match combinations. Ll. A Second Version of a Basic Everyday Wardrobe The second model, Lee Zinke, chose a basic wardrobe with the same purpose in mind, to provide a number of becoming costumes for daytime and informal evening occasions. She selected a print fabric of olive green, beige, and hot pink of 100 per cent rayon for using as her color key. The suit which was made as a part of this outfit was almost an exact replica of one selling in a fine dress shop for $49.50. It cost Lee $12.50 to make the entire outfit. There are eight pieces in her wardrobe, which can be combined in twelve different ways. 446 Everyday Wardrobe #2 11. A Dressy Wardrobe for Special Occasions Our third model, Estelle Wardle, made an elegant dressy wardrobe. She chose a lovely 100 per cent orlon material of red, dark blue, and light blue as her tri-colored theme. She made a beautiful 100 per cent wool coat in the light blue of her color theme. The coat can be worn with any of the other pieces of her wardrobe. She also made an elegant dark blue suit from a fabric called Veltessa. From the coat to the beautiful hostess skirt, Estelle's dressy wardrobe is truly stunning. She has nine separate pieces and can combine them in thirteen different ways. Our models polished or repainted their old shoes to match their new outfits, so that they could achieve a finished appearance and give their shoes new life and added usefulness. 447 Dress Wardrobe From the color pictures and the drawings, it will be seen that the mix-andmatch costumes are conservative and simple in design, and they can be made from patterns readily available in most areas where women do their own sewing. We realized more and more the merits of mix-and-match wardrobes, as we observed the many combinations available in planning wardrobes in this manner. Such outfits give those refreshing changes that make clothes more serviceable and useful, and by combining the various pieces to change her personality, a woman actually has more clothes to wear. Mix-and-match wardrobes can be as creative and inventive as the woman herself, and she can have a beautiful wardrobe by sewing her own clothing in the colors and designs that please her and enhance her feminine attractiveness.