[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Literature | Title: Literature]

LITERATURE Lesson IV. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minute talk on Current Events.
Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin.
Subject: Franklin's Interest in Education.
Sentiment: "Experience keeps a dear school but fools will learn in no other and scarce in that." 1.
Franklin as a student. a.
Early struggles for knowledge.
Altemus, pp. 3544.
Crowell. pp. 14.23. b.
Language studies.
Altemus, pp. 175-176. c.
Scientific studies.
Altemus, pp. 266-273 Crowell, ; pp. 223-228. 2.
Franklin establishes Academy, which later becomes: ;  the University of Philadelphia.
Altemus. pp. 209-213, Crowell, pp. 169-173. a.
Development of the scheme. b.
Financial basis of the school. 3.
Establishes free charity school.
Altemus (see note. p. 213.) (Reference to this school is found in the Altemus edition only.) Two years after the academy was established a free school v/as advertised in "Franklin's Gazette," as follows: "Notice is hereby given, that on Monday, the 16th of September, a free school will be opened, under the care and direction of the Trustees of the Academy, at the new building, for the instruction of poor children, gratis, in reading, writing, and arithmetic.
Those who are desirous of having their children admitted, may apply to any of the Trustees." A year later the following notice appeared in the same paper '"The charity school opened by the Trustees in the Academy, now teaches reading, writing, and arithmetic to a hundred poor children, most of whom, though from eight to thirteen years of age. had never been sent to any school before nor did it seem likely many of them would ever have been sent to any school if it had not been for this institution." QUESTIONS. 1.
Discuss the subject, "Franklin, a Self-Made Man." 2.
What is really the important thing in acquiring an education? 3.
Compare Franklin with the type of man who is anxious to educate and inform himself only. 4.
What do you think of Franklin's "free school?" 5.
What great scientific discovery was made by Franklin as a result of his extensive experiments? 6.
Amiat honor came to him through this discovery?
ART.
Whistler Innes: James A.
McNiel Whistler is the greatest modern artist.
He discovered to Europe the wonderful Japanese art.
He  was not appreciated by his countrymen, Americans, nor yet by the English, among whom he made his home.
The French, after long years, gave him his proper place.
He was always appreciated by a few who were a source of consolation to the
10 great artist, whose life is art and art was his whole life led through long years of harsh jeering, taunting, acrid criticism, before he converted the world to his greatness.
His etchings are marvels of beauty, and he is as wonderful in painting as in etching.
Whistler has had a tremendous influence on the art of today.
His art is subtle, delicate, original and spontaneous.
To those who can not understand him, it is useless to explain,  for art can not be explained especially the highest art for  that can only be felt. (Read the October Bulletin on Whistler, Sargeant and Brush.
Read Hafen's letter and Mary Teasdel's story in "Devotees and their Shrines," for references to Whistler; also the introductory and extracts by Whistler, on pages 17, 18, 41, 94, 103, 109.) George Innes was the greatest American landscapist next to Whistler.
He was indeed an artist.
His work in studios was very independent.
He studied nature closely, sympathetically, and was wonderful in feeling.
He was emotional when contemplating nature.
In his early life he suffered from epilepsy, but grew stronger through later years.
Read Hafen's tribute to George Innes, in his letter.
Innes died several years ago, but as he becomes better known, he will be recognized and given his right place among the greatest Americans.
George Innes was a dreamer, but his visions were in the highest, loftiest realms of the beautiful.
No American should be ignorant of Whistler, Sargeant, Innes.
Winslow, Homer, Brush and Woodbury, and no Utahn should neglect to learn something of John Hafen, John Fairbanks, J.
T.
Harwood, Edwin Evans, Cyrus Dallin, Mary Teasdel, Rost Hartwell, M.
M.
Young, Lee Greene Richards, Donald Beauregard, A.
B.
Wright, Wesley Browning, Myra Sawyer, and those noble pioneers, Weggeland.
Ottinger and a score of others whose names could well be added.