[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Prayers of Driggs]

Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the prayers it contains, which are not unlike the lyric or song. THE prayer, as such, is not classed with any distinct literary form of writing. It is defined as a supplication or petition which is thought of, generally, in connection with sacred matters. If compared directly to a literary form one would think of a prayer as having several qualities not unlike the poem.
There is first of all a meditation of a single individual in the voicing of a prayer whether it be for personal reasons. Or for one acting on behalf of a group. Again, there is the element of praise which lends itself to the quality of song in speech. Third, there often is the figurative language of the lyric to enhance the beauty of the petition. Then, there is the compact phrase in the wording of a prayer that presupposes a listener's knowledge of the facts behind a supplication.
Soon after the completion of the Kirtland Temple, the Lord gave to Joseph Smith through revelation the prayer which later he used in the dedication of the building.
Certain it must have been that during those hard and trying days of the saints in the then frontier country, Joseph Smith stored up in his mind and heart the struggles and heartaches of his people. The experiences, welled up over the years, gushed forth in words of supplication and praise in the day of accomplishment. To build a house to the Lord through sacrifice and tribulation expands the soul. The Prophet and his people desired a voice of gladness to echo their pent-up thoughts, and the Lord responded in a way which, today, we know as the 109 section of the Doctrine and Covenants. We will consider this prayer at length in the discussion period. Two other beautiful prayers in the Doctrine and Covenants may be found in section 65, and section 121:1-6. The first of these is listed as a revelation and is designated as a prayer committing the keys of the kingdom of God unto man.
Note the parallelism that runs throughout: Hearken, and lo, a voice as of one sent down from on high, who is mighty and powerful, whose going forth is unto the ends of the earth, yea, whose voice is unto men Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. The keys of the kingdom of God are committed unto man on the earth, and from thence shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone which is cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth, until it has filled the whole earth. Yea, a voice crying Prepare ye the way of the Lord, prepare ye the supper of the Lamb, make ready for the Bridegroom.
Pray unto the Lord, call upon his holy name, make known his wonderful works among the people.
Call upon the Lord, that his kingdom may go forth upon the earth, that the inhabitants thereof may receive it, and be prepared for the days to come, in the which the Son of Man shall come down in heaven, clothed in the brightness of his glory, to meet the kingdom of God which is set up on the earth; Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven may come, that thou, O God, mayest be glorified in heaven so on earth, that thine enemies may be subdued; for thine is the honor, power and glory, forever and ever. Amen (65). In the prayer of supplication found in verses one to six of section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants there is much of the creative power sensed in the lines not unlike that found in lyric poetry born of suffering.
Activities and Readings for Appreciation During the time for reading and discussion of this lesson some part may well be spent in a study of modern prayer found in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 109. The following may possibly be classified as a poem of exaltation:.
That thy church may come forth out of the wilderness of darkness, and shine forth fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners; and be adorned as a bride for that day when thou shalt unveil the heavens, and cause the mountains to flow down at thy presence, and the valleys to be exalted, the rough places made smooth; that thy glory may fill the earth; that when the trump shall sound for the dead, we shall be caught up in the cloud to meet thee, that we may ever be with the Lord; that our garments may be pure, that we may be clothed upon with robes of righteousness, with palms in our hands, and crowns of glory upon our heads, and reap eternal joy for all our sufferings. O Lord God Almighty, hear us in these our petitions, and answer us from heaven, thy holy habitation, where thou sittest enthroned, with glory, honor, power, majesty, might, dominion, truth, justice, judgment, mercy, and an infinity of fulness, from everlasting to everlasting. O hear, O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And answer these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto thy name; And also this church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of thy Spirit, that we may mingle our voices with those bright, shining setaphs around thy throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb! And let these, thine anointed ones, be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy.
Amen and Amen (D. & C. 109:73-80). The following questions may help in the study: 1.
What are the things a prophet requests in prayer upon an occasion of great public moment? 2.
Where are the lyric qualities of the prayer most pronounced? 3. Why would a prayer such as this be recorded in holy writ? 
  NOVEMBER 1947