[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Discuss the experiences of the Lord in the wilderness and the preparation for his ministry.:  Visiting Teacher Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 5
Cultural Activities President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, February 3, 1948
Objective: To stimulate a deeper appreciation of the different cultural activities of the pioneers in order to better evaluate in a more understanding way similar activities today. HE foundation for cultural activities among Latter-day Saints was laid in pioneer times. Education, with drama, music, and other fine arts, all received attention and were fostered according to the resources of each community and each period. In Kirtland and in Nauvoo, schools of learning were established; and in temporary settlements on the plains, schools were held in private homes. In Nauvoo there were music and art classes, lecture courses, a debating society, and a home dramatic club. For the encouragement of the drama, a combined theater and dance hall was provided. 'The Latter-day Saints believed in a high type of recreation, and encouraged their children to sing, and to read and recite good literature. In Utah, elementary schools were established at once, and, soon afterward, these were followed by Church schools, high schools, and universities. In the beginning books were scarce, but, in 1852, a library of 2,000 volumes was hauled across the plains 

  NOVEMBER 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT by ox team, and in the autumn of the same year, Wilford Woodruff arrived with two tons of books. The drama flourished in Utah, even in the first and second decades. In the Social Hall ("Little Theater") and in the Salt Lake Theater, called by Henry Miller "a cathedral in the wilderness," first-class drama, including Shakespeare's plays, was presented by the home dramatic company, assisted later by nationally known artists. The great Tabernacle organ, the Tabernacle Choir, and the orchestra all did their part in producing cultural atmosphere in Utah. The Tabernacle itself, famed for its acoustic properties, was one of the great community assets, attracting many noted singers and musicians, all of whom left their impressions on the public. Adelina Patti is quoted as saying: Never have I encountered such perfect resonance as here in the Tabernacle. Why, my voice is twice as large here. It carried farther and with ever so much more tone than in any other hall I have ever sung in. Salt Lake City was the natural center of cultural activities, and the patterns set there were soon followed throughout other Church communities 783 In every local community there was a day school, and in many of them a night school for adults.