[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Cultural Activities President Amy Brown Lyman]
Visiting  cJeachers'   illessageS' 
Heritage 
Lesson  5— Cultural  Activities 
President  Amy  Blown  Lyman 
For  Tuesday,  February  3,  1948 
Objective:  To  stimulate  a  deeper  appreciation  of  the  different  cultural  activities  of 
the  pioneers  in  order  to  better  evaluate  in  a  more  understanding  way  similar  activities 
today. 
TTHE  foundation  for  cultural  ac- 
tivities among  Latter-day  Saints 
was  laid  in  pioneer  times.  Education, 
with  drama,  music,  and  other  fine 
arts,  all  received  attention  and  were 
fostered  according  to  the  resources 
of  each  community  and  each  period. 
In  Kirtland  and  in  Nauvoo,  schools 
of  learning  were  established;  and  in 
temporary  settlements  on  the  plains, 
schools  were  held  in  private  homes. 
In  Nauvoo  there  were  music  and  art 
classes,  lecture  courses,  a  debating 
society,  and  a  home  dramatic  club. 
For  the  encouragement  of  the  dra- 
ma, a  combined  theater  and  dance 
hall  was  provided.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  believed  in  a  high  type  of  rec- 
reation, and  encouraged  their  chil- 
dren to  sing,  and  to  read  and  recite 
good  literature. 
In  Utah,  elementary  schools  were 
established  at  once,  and,  soon  after- 
ward, these  were  followed  by  Church 
schools,  high  schools,  and  universi- 
ties. In  the  beginning  books  were 
scarce,  but,  in  1852,  a  library  of  2,000 
volumes  was  hauled  across  the  plains

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
783 
by  ox  team,  and  in  the  autumn  of 
the  same  year,  Wilford  Woodruff 
arrived  with  two  tons  of  books. 
The  drama  flourished  in  Utah, 
even  in  the  first  and  second  decades. 
In  the  Social  Hall  ("Little  Thea- 
ter") and  in  the  Salt  Lake  Theater, 
called  by  Henry  Miller  "a  cathedral 
in  the  wilderness,"  first-class  drama, 
including  Shakespeare's  plays,  was 
presented  by  the  home  dramatic 
company,  assisted  later  by  nationally 
known  artists. 
The  great  Tabernacle  organ,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  and  the  orches- 
tra all  did  their  part  in  producing  cul- 
tural atmosphere  in  Utah. 
The  Tabernacle  itself,  famed  for 
its  acoustic  properties,  was  one  of 
the  great  community  assets,  attract- 
ing many  noted  singers  and  music- 
ians, all  of  whom  left  their  impres- 
sions on  the  public.  Adelina  Patti 
is  quoted  as  saying: 
Never  have  I  encountered  such  perfect 
resonance  as  here  in  the  Tabernacle.  Why, 
my  voice  is  twice  as  large  here.  It  carried 
farther  and  with  ever  so  much  more  tone 
than  in  any  other  hall  I  have  ever  sung  in. 
Salt  Lake  City  was  the  natural  cen- 
ter of  cultural  activities,  and  the  pat- 
terns set  there  were  soon  followed 
throughout  other  Church  communi- 
ties. In  every  local  community  there 
was  a  day  school,  and  in  many  of 
them  a  night  school  for  adults.There 
was  a  choir  for  Church  services,  a 
singing  school,  some  stringed  music 
for  concerts  and  dances,  a  brass 
band,  and  a  dramatic  club.  Pageants 
were  early  introduced  to  portray  re- 
ligious and  historical  themes.  The 
auxiliary  organizations,  avenues  for 
individual  self-expression,  encour- 
aged literary  and  religious  study, 
thus  developing  much  talent. 
Many  people  have  marvelled  that 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  small  as  it  is,  with  less 
than  a  million  members,  and  young 
as  it  is,  just  118  years  old,  has  been 
able  to  produce  so  many  specialists 
in  cultural  fields;  such  as  education, 
science,  music,  drama,  art— painting 
and  sculpturing—public  speaking, 
and  writing.  The  answer  is  that 
these  are  the  fruits  of  the  high  ideals, 
standards,  practices,  and  virtues  set 
up  by  the  Church,  and  of  the  oppor- 
tunities and  environment  it  provides. 
Suggestions  ioi  Discussion 
The  class  leader  might  mention  a  few 
of  the  Latter-day  Saint  educators,  musi- 
cians, actors,  artists,  orators,  and  writers, 
and  discuss,  briefly,  some  of  their  ac- 
complishments. 
SILVER  DEATH 
Melba  S.  Payne 
The  night  had  cast  a  silent  spell 
Upon  the  scene  below  my  window 
Where  the  flowers  sleep. 
There  was  no  way  for  me  to  tell 
That  night  would  bring  a  withering  breath 
Of  hoary  frost  upon  the  vines. 
How  could  I  know  that  with  the  dawn 
I'd  find  this  silver  death?

784  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
Vl/ork    I  fleeting — Sewing 
Lesson  4— Sleeve  Fitting  and  Shoulder  Pads