[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: On a Fiftieth Wedding Payne]
ON  A  FIFTIETH  WEDDING  ANNIVERSARY 
Eunice  /.  Miles 
Their  marriage  moved  on  wings  of  understanding, 
The  salt  of  laughter  livened  somber  days; 
They  steered  their  love-ship  to  a  happy  landing 
With  steadfastness,  and  hope,  and  mutual  praise.

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
Q/heology — The  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  5— "The  Boy  of  Nazareth" 
"In  the  Wilderness  of  Judea" 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Christ,  Chapters  9  and  10,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage) 
For  Tuesday,  February  3,  1948 
Objective:     To  show  that  Jesus  early  understood  his  divine  calling  and  spent  a  pe- 
riod of  careful  preparation  for  his  great  ministry. 
JOSEPH  and  Mary,  upon  their  re- 
*  turn  from  Egypt,  established  their 
home  in  the  small  town  of  Nazareth 
in  Galilee.  They  fain  would  have 
gone  to  Bethlehem,  the  city  of  their 
ancestors,  but  Joseph,  "being  warned 
of  God  in  a  dream,  he  turned  aside 
into  the  parts  of  Galilee"  (Matt. 
2:22) .  It  had  been  said  by  a  proph- 
et of  old  that  "He  shall  be  called  a 
Nazarene." 
Here,  the  boy  Jesus  grew  to  man- 
hood. Because  so  little  is  known  of 
his  boyhood,  the  sacred  word  is,  no 
doubt,  wisely  silent  on  the  events  of 
his  early  years.  His  infancy  and  boy- 
hood were  natural  and  actual. 
Though  a'  God  before  his  birth,  the 
veil  of  forgetfulness  common  to  all 
who  are  born  to  earth  "shut  off  the 
vision  of  his  primeval  existence."  He 
came  to  earth  to  have,  and  did  have, 
the  experiences  of  mortality. 
We  are  justified  in  saying  that  he 
was  taught  well  in  the  Jewish  law 
and  the  Old  Testament  scriptures. 
"And  the  child  grew,  and  waxed 
strong  in  spirit,  filled  with  wisdom: 
and  the  grace  of  God  was  upon  him" 
Page  778 
(Luke  2:40).  Later  in  life  this  was 
fully  shown,  though  he  offended  the 
Jews  by  not  quoting  more  frequent- 
ly from  the  scriptures. 
Both  Joseph  and  Mary  seem  to 
have  been  strict  observers  of  the  law 
of  Moses.  Its  provisions  required 
the  men,  and  allowed  the  women,  to 
observe  the  Feast  of  the  Passover 
annually.  (The  establishment  of  this 
sacred  ceremonial  should  be  re- 
viewed. Deut.  16:1-6 and  Ex.  12) 
The  twelfth  year  was  extremely 
important  to  every  Jewish  boy.  Dur- 
ing that  year  he  became  "a  son  of 
the  law."  He  was  recognized  as  a 
member  of  his  home  community. 
When  Jesus  was  twelve  years  old,  his 
parents  took  him  to  Jerusalem  to 
observe  the  Feast  of  the  Passover: 
This  journey  has  particular  significance 
because  it  is  the  first  appearance  of  Jesus 
in  the  sacred  record,  following  His  return 
with  Mary  and  Joseph,  to  Nazareth  from 
Egypt.  After  this  appearance  in  the 
Temple,  the  record  is  silent  about  the  next 
succeeding  eighteen  years,  when  Jesus,  be- 
ing about  thirty  years  old,  appears  on  the 
banks  of  the  Jordan  to  be  baptized  of  John. 
(President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.)

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
779 
President  Clark  has  written  an  ex- 
cellent treatise  entitled  "Wist  Ye 
Not  That  I  Must  Be  About  My 
Father's  Business?"  It  appeared 
first  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
(December  1943  issue  and  the  first 
five  issues  of  1944),  and  may  now  be 
purchased  from  the  General  Board 
of  Relief  Society.  Anyone  who  reads 
this  will  be  greatly  enlightened. 
During  these  annual  gatherings 
Jerusalem  was  a  city  of  between  two 
and  three  millions  of  people.  "In- 
numerable multitudes"  came  from 
all  the  provinces  of  the  Holy  Land. 
Usually,  the  feast,  or  celebration, 
lasted  several  days.  On  the  mem- 
orable event  of  the  first  visit  of  Jesus, 
and  after  the  feast,  Joseph  and  Mary 
had  gone  a  "day's  journey"  toward 
home  when  they  discovered  the  boy 
was  not  with  the  company.  There 
can  be  but  little  doubt  that  he  had 
planned  to  stay  behind  and  do  the 
work  in  the  temple  necessary  to  fit 
him  for  his  future  tasks.  He  felt  the 
urge  of  his  great  work.  When  his 
parents,  after  three  days  of  searching, 
found  him  conversing  in  the  temple 
with  the  learned  priests  and  scribes, 
he  must  have  known  his  mission.  In 
answer  to  their  anxious  inquiry,  he 
said  to  his  mother:  "How  is  it  that 
ye  sought  me?  wist  ye  not  that  I  must 
be  about  my  Father's  business?" 
(Luke  2:49). 
With  our  knowledge  of  the  pre- 
existence,  we  are  sure  he  had  begun, 
at  that  early  age,  to  understand  the 
full  import  of  his  calling.  It  is  stat- 
ed: "And  they  understood  not  the 
saying  which  he  spake  unto  them." 
He  knew  whereof  he  spoke,  but  even 
his  mother  seems  never  to  have  ful- 
ly understood. 
All  that  we  have  recorded  in  the 
scriptures  concerning  the  events   of 
the  eighteen  years  following  the  visit 
of  Jesus  to  the  temple  is  found  in  one 
meaningful  sentence:  "And  Jesus  in- 
creased in  wisdom  and  stature,  and 
in  favour  with  God  and  man"  (Luke 
2:52). 
In  the  Wilderness  oi  Judea 
Attention  was  called  in  a  previous 
lesson  to  the  birth  of  one  of  the  great 
characters  of  the  Messianic  period. 
The  son  of  Zacharias,  known  as  John 
the  Baptist,  commenced  his  preach- 
ing in  the  wilderness.  He  had  evi- 
dently spent  much  time  preparing 
for  his  great  work.  His  teachers 
were  divinely  appointed,  and  he  had 
communed  with  God  apart  from  the 
busy  "marts  of  trade."  John  lived  the 
simple  life.  He  wore  a  "raiment  of 
camel's  hair,  and  a  leathern  girdle 
A  Perry  Picture 
MADONNA   AND    CHILD 
From  a  painting  by  Janssen