[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 38 | Category: Article | Title: Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts]
Salt  Lake  Vallev  with  the  second 
J 
company  of  pioneers,  in  September 
1847.  She  later  settled  with  her 
husband  Francis  A.  Hammond  in 
Huntsville,  where  she  was  an  active 
worker  and  held  the  office  of  Relief 
Society  president,  being  the  first 
sister  to  hold  the  office  in  that  ward. 
Her  name  will  be  remembered  as 
the  first  teacher  recorded  in  the  his- 
tory of  Deseret  and  the  one  who 
placed  the  "first  stone  in  the  founda- 
tion of  the  present  magnificent 
school  system  of  which  Utah  is 
proud/' 
In  the  fall  of  1847  Julian  Moses 
taught  school  in  a  log  schoolroom. 
"For  tables  some  man's  wagon  was 
torn  to  pieces  and  laid  on  trestles. 
In  some  schools  the  pupils  used  logs 
to  write  on.  Seats  or  benches  were 
made  in  the  same  way.  The  stove 
was  a  real  fireplace  in  which  sage- 
brush was  burned."  Milking  stools, 
benches,  and  logs  were  used  for 
chairs.  Once  in  awhile  some  seats 
were  fashioned  with  buffalo  robes. 
One  teacher  was  given  a  willow  chair 
which  the  schoolboys  made.  Slabs 
were  sometimes  used  for  benches. 
Some  chairs  and  benches  had  five 
legs,  two  in  each  end  and  one  in  the 
middle. 
Clarilla  Browning,  Ogden's  first 
schoolteacher,  arrived  at  Brown's 
Fort,  October  27,  1849.  She  states 
that  during  that  winter  she  taught 
school  in  a  log  house: 
We  had  to  collect  letters  from  scraps 
of  papers  and  old  books;  these  we  pasted 
on  paddles.  We  also  made  letters  on  the 
inside  of  our  hands.  In  this  way  the  chil- 
dren learned  to  read. 
Six  months  after  the  founding  of 
Manti,  in  1850,  Jesse  W.  Fox  opened 
a  school  "for  juveniles,  and  was  read- 
ing to  the  adults,  evenings,  by  the 
light  of  a  tallow-dip  and  the  camp- 
fire."    Lydia  Stanley  was  the  teach-

734 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
RUNNING  FOR  A  DRINK 
OF  WATER 
er  who  opened  a  school  in  "a  hut  of 
logs  and  brush  on  the  banks  of  the 
Jordan." 
What  a  contrast  in  school  build- 
ings from  the  humble  shelters  of 
early  pioneer  days  to  the  spacious 
and  stately  buildings  of  today! 
CCHOOLS  were  held  in  all  types 
of  buildings.  The  first  school 
was  housed  in  a  military  tent  shaped 
like  a  wigwam.  Groves  and  boweries 
were  used,  private  houses,  and  pub- 
lic buildings.  The  log  house  was 
common,  with  "roof  garden  of  mud 
and  sunflowers;  a  dirt  floor  packed 
hard  by  feet,  which  were  mostly 
bare."  Sometimes  the  floors,  con- 
sisting of  split  logs,  were  smoothed 
with  an  adze.  Sometimes  the  walls 
were  split  logs  "laid  close  together 
and  covered  with  cedar  bark  or  rush- 
es that  grew  about  the  marshes/' 
Windows  were  sometimes  covered 
with  cloth  greased  with  fat.  This 
was  used  instead  of  glass.  Some- 
times they  were  covered  with  white 
cloth  to  admit  light.  One  school- 
house  was  part  of  a  fort  wall,  with 
portholes  for  defense  against  In- 
dians. 
Adobe  houses  were  often  used. 
The  red  ones  were  especially  color- 
ful. The  size  varied  from  small 
twelve-by-twelve  foot  rooms  to  two- 
story  frame  buildings  with  the  stairs 
to  the  upper  story  built  on  the  out- 
side wall.  Even  garrets  were  used, 
and  a  "lean-to-room  near  the  United 
Order  storehouse." 
George  A.  Smith's  first  school  is 
pictured  in  his  diary,  March  3d, 
1851: 
My  wicky-up  is  a  very  important 
establishment,  composed  of  brush,  a  few 
slabs  and  3  wagons.  A  fire  in  the  center 
and  a  lot  of  milking  stools,  benches  and 
logs  placed  around,  two  of  which  are 
fashioned  with  buffalo  robes.  It  answers 
for  various  purposes,  kitchen,  schoolhouse, 
dining  room,  meeting  house,  council 
house,  sitting  room,  reading  room,  store- 
room. To  see  my  school  some  of  the  cold 
nights  in  February,  scholars  standing- 
ing  around  my  huge  campfire,  the  wind 
broken  off  by  the  brush  and  the  whole 
canopy  of  heaven  for  covering. 
George  A.  Smith  was  a  colorful 
figure  conducting  classes  "by  the 
light  of  the  campfire  during  the 
founding  of  the  far  southern  settle- 
ment of  Parowan." 
Ada  Arvilla  Burke  Earl,  born  in 
Farmington,  Utah,  May  28,  1857, 
said  in  her  diary: 
We  started  school  at  a  very  early  age 
and  I  remember  carrying  bread  and  a  jug 
of  milk  for  our  lunch  and  Mrs.  Lyman 
would  give  us  dishes  and  spoons  to  eat 
our  bread  and  milk  in. 
Another  pioneer  wrote: 
When  nothing  better  was  available 
for  the  mid-day  meal,  the  children  went 
out  and  dug  sego  roots. 
The  schools  created  an  atmos- 
phere of  industry,  co-operation,  and 
happiness.     The  pupils  made  their

READING  AND  WRITING  IN  DESERET 
735 
own  entertainment  and  jollity. 
What  fun  they  would  have  on  Fri- 
day afternoons  at  the  "spelling 
down"  matches!  Then  there  were 
declamation  contests,  organ  solos, 
singing  programs,  and  occasional 
plays  or  concerts.  In  the  Brigham 
Young  School  they  would  often  fin- 
ish up  a  Friday  afternoon  with  the 
reading  of  the  weekly  paper  made  up 
entirely  from  contributions  from  the 
scholars  and  edited  by  one  of  them. 
Games  played  during  recess  might 
have  been  baseball,  or  steal-the-stick, 
or  drop-the-handkerchief.  "At  times 
we  played  Indian  and  made  bows 
and  arrows,"  says  Lorenzo  D.  Young, 
who  attended  Miss  Dilworth's  first 
school. 
DUNISHMENTS  were  also  neces- 
sarv  at  times.  Silas  Hillman  said 
YOU'RE   ASKING   FOR 
A  SPANKING" 
that,  although  punishment  was  used, 
little  whipping  was  done.  The  other 
forms  of  punishment  were  as  fol- 
lows: 
The  first  offense  was  punishable  by 
having  the  offender  stand  in  the  middle 
of  the  floor;  the  second,  to  stand  on  one 
foot;  the  third,  on  one  foot  with  one  arm 
raised;  the  fourth,  on  one  foot  with  the 
raised  arm  holding  a  stick.  Next  came  the 
dunce  cap  and  various  other  unique  ways 
of  trying  to  keep  order. 
In  the  Brigham  Young  School  the 
individual  desks  were  painted  green, 
with  drop  lids.  These  could  be 
raised  and,  as  Clarissa  Y.  Spencer  ex- 
pressed it:  "It  was  very  convenient 
to  raise  the  lid,  and  behind  it,  eat  a 
choice  apple  or  read  a  note  from  one 
of  the  boys,  being  quite  sure  the 
teacher  would  not  see  us." 
Later,  more  fortunate  teachers  had 
some  charts  on  the  walls  for  the 
youngest  children  and  slates  and 
pencils  for  the  older  ones.  In  imagi- 
nation we  can  hear  the  scratchy  slate 
pencils,  which  had  been  made  from 
slate  rock  whittled  down.  Later, 
when  paper  could  be  obtained,  quills 
were  used  for  pens,  and  sharpened 
by  the  teacher  with  her  sharp  knife. 
Oak  bark  and  copperas  were  boiled 
together  for  ink.  Those  who  had 
neither  pencils,  slates,  pen,  nor  ink 
took  charcoal  and  "wrote  on  smooth 
logs  or  dried  bark  of  the  white  moun- 
tain birch." 
There  was  a  great  scarcity  of  books 
in  pioneer  days.  Bibles  and  other 
standard  works  of  the  Church  were 
available,  but  references  and  text- 
books were  limited. 
What  rapture  must  have  been  felt 
by  the  saints  when  Wilford  W. 
Woodruff  arrived  from  the  States 
with  nearly  two  tons  of  school  books. 
This  event  was  recounted   in    the

736 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
t%. mm 
UWITl^sl 
JtAnnfuwifbTA-a 23 
Deseret  News  of  November  27, 
1850. 
Some  of  the  books  used  during  the 
first  brief  school  year  in  Utah  were 
the  "Bible,  Noah  Webster's  Spelling 
Boole,  the  Lindley  Murray  Readers, 
and  A  New  and  Complete  Arithme- 
tic Composed  for  Citizens  of  the 
United  States.  Others  available  at 
that  time  were  a  medical  work  by 
Dr.  Gunn,  a  universal  history,  and 
occasionally  there  would  be  found  a 
Blackstone  and  other  legal  books. 
Dr.  Bernhisel  brought  a  large  num- 
ber of  books  of  every  type  from  the 
East.  Mention  is  also  made  of 
Kirkham's  Grammar,  Smith's  Arith- 
metic, the  Wilson  Readers,  Cornell's 
Geography,  Ray's  Arithmetic,  and 
Elementary  Arithmetic.  Spencerian 
copybooks  were  often  used  to  per- 
fect writing. 
With  what  pride  the  owners  of  a 
McGuffey's  First  Reader,  published 
in  1836,  studied  its  contents.  The 
owner  of  this  book  cherished  the  il- 
lustrations "designed  and  engraved 
specially  for  the   lessons  in  which 
they  occur."  The  illustrations 
served  also  for  oral  lessons  in  lan- 
guage, for  spelling,  word  pronuncia- 
tions, stories,  and  memorization. 
Many  pictures  were  carefully  traced 
by  lovers  of  art.  This  book  was 
handled  almost  reverently  and 
placed  on  the  shelf  or  table  with  the 
carefully  dusted  and  much  used 
Bible  and  other  cherished  and  treas- 
ured books.  Lessons  of  courtesy  and 
morals  were  almost  shouted  at  the 
end  of  each  story. 
TN  1848  the   Legislative  Assembly 
"enacted  its  first  law  which  pro- 
vided for  good  roads.  Its  second  law 
provided  for  a  University  of  the  State 
of  Deseret,  claimed  to  be  the  first 
institution  of  higher  learning  west 
of  the  Mississippi." 
In  February  1850  Orson  Spencer 
was  appointed  chancellor.  Twelve 
members  to  make  up  the  Board  of 
Regents  were  also  appointed.  "Until 
1869  its  existence  was  little  more 
than  nominal.  .  .  .  Then  the  annual 
grant  of  $5,000  for  its  support  came 
from  an  empty  treasury." 
Three  men  comprised  the  first 
faculty— Orson  Pratt,  Cyrus  W. 
Collins,  and  Orson  Spencer.  Each 
of  the  forty  students  paid  $8  or 
its  equivalent  every  ten  weeks. 
For  a  time  the  University  was  a 
"Parents'  School."  It  was  held  in  the 
front  parlor  of  the  John  Pack  home 
on  the  corner  of  West  Temple  and 
First  North  Street  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
After  awhile  the  "Parents'  School" 
was  discontinued.  It  was  one  of  the 
most  interesting  experiments  con- 
ducted in  Utah  education. 
Tuition  and  salaries  were  problems 
in  those  early  days.  The  parents 
often  paid  for  their  children's  school- 
ing in  produce,    such  as  potatoes,

READING  AND  WRITING  IN  DESERET 
737 
eggs,  and  butter.  Nearly  a  century 
ago,  a  student  registering  at  the 
"Parents'  School"  could  pay  his  tu- 
ition with  lumber,  flour,  wheat, 
building  stone,  or  potatoes.  Some- 
one wrote  that  the  "teachers'  sala- 
ries instead  of  being  drawn  on  the 
bank  were  drawn  on  wheelbarrows." 
How  resourceful  were  those  early 
teachers!  Even  a  new  alphabet, 
called  the  Deseret  Alphabet,  of  thir- 
ty-two letters,  was  created  for  the 
use  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  people. 
Probably  the  purpose  for  creating 
this  alphabet  was  to  "simplify  the 
reading  of  the  English  language." 
The  new  alphabet,  although  it  pos- 
se ^d  many  meritorious  features, 
was  used  very  little  even  in  pioneer 
days,  and  was  finally  abandoned. 
The  "Charter  granted  Salt  Lake 
City  in  1851  by  the  Territorial  Leg- 
islature provided  for  the  establish- 
ment and  regulation  of  schools.  Sim- 
ilar provisions  were  made  in  the 
charters  of  all  the  early  Utah  towns." 
By  1850  "common   schools  were 
beginning  in  all  parts  of  the  city  for 
the  winter."  Then  the  Territory  of 
Utah  next  came  into  existence.  Sep- 
tember 23,  1851,  addressing  the  Leg- 
islative Assembly,  Governor  Young 
"advocated  the  encouragement  of 
primary  schools  and  suggested  that 
the  Legislature  consider  the  pro- 
priety of  requiring  the  inhabitants 
of  each  neighborhood  to  maintain  a 
school." 
American  Fork  is  credited  with 
being  the  first  town  to  sponsor  a 
school  "entirely  supported  by  tax- 
es." It  was  the  first  school  in  Utah 
that  was  free  to  all  children. 
HPHE  history  of  Latter-day  Saint 
schools  of  higher  learning,  head- 
ed by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
in  Provo,  shows  that  the  pioneers 
were  staunch  friends  of  religious  ed- 
ucation, "which  should  be  free  from 
prejudice  and  free  for  all." 
Karl  G.  Maeser's  name  is  indeed 
"a  benediction  to  the  name  of  edu- 
cation" in  Utah.     What  an  impor- 
SPELLING  LINE-UP