[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where Chapter]
EDITORIAL  753 
known  as  a    Christian  nation,  then  Behold  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  what- 
it   must  acknowledge   and    worship  fever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  be  free 
,i      T       j     r  .  i      i      ?     rpi  •    m         if.  from  bondage,   and   from    captivity,    and 
the  Lord  of  the  land.    This  thought  from  a„  otger  nations  und<£  hJven>  if 
is  beautifully  expressed  in  the  Book  they  win  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land, 
of  Mormon  in    words   of  great   sig-  who  is  Jesus  Christ  (Ether  2:12). 
nificance:  V.  P.  C. 
GEMS 
Ora  Pate  Stewart 
My  cellar  is  a  vault  ...  a  treasury, 
Where  amber  jewels  of  peach  and  apricot 
Are  mounted  with  the  golden  filigree 
Of  ripened  corn.     I  count  it  not 
As  one  who  counts  his  gold,  but  still  I  gaze 
In  thankfulness  upon  it,  and  in  praise 
For  jellied  rubies,  labeled  plum  and  cherry, 
The  liquid  amethyst  of  grape  and  berry, 
Jade  beads  of  peas  and  beans;  and  emerald  gherkins; 
Sardonyx  mottled  mince  in  wooden  firkins.  .  .  . 
Rare  gems,  distilled  from  shrubs  and  vines  and  trees  . 
"Lay  not  up  ...  .  treasures"  was  not  meant  for  these. 
A  HOME 
Thelma  Ireland 
It  is  nice  to  have  a  house  built  new, 
According  to  one's  wishes, 
And  carry  out  the  color  scheme 
.  With  curtains,  rugs,  and  dishes. 
But  give  to  me  an  old  farmhouse 
With  the  rooms  built  on  in  tiers, 
To  accommodate  a  family 
That  increases  with  the  years; 
A  house  with  family  albums 
And  old  portraits  here  and  there, 
And  a  raveled,  crocheted  tidy 
Hiding  scars  on  some  old  chair. 
No,  it  may  not  be  artistic, 
Sort  of  motley,  as  a  whole, 
But  give  me  a  house  that's  lived  in, 
A  house  that  has  a  soul.

Where  Trails  Run  Out 
Anna  Prince  Redd 
Chapter  10 
[The  incidents  of  this  story  are  true,  and  the  characters  authentic.  The  information 
has  been  carefully  gleaned  from  diaries,  journals,  and  personal  interviews. — Ed.] 
Synopsis:  A  company  of  twenty-four 
young  men  and  two  families — James  L. 
Davis,  his  wife,  Mary,  and  their  four  chil- 
dren; Henry  H.  Harriman,  his  wife,  Eliza- 
beth, and  their  five  children — are  called 
to  explore  a  route  from  Cedar  City,  in 
Southern  Utah,  to  San  Juan  County.  The 
two  families  are  to  remain  in  San  Juan  and 
prepare  for  the  coming  of  the  main  com- 
pany. 
The  company,  after  much  suffering,  fi- 
nally reaches  Moenkopi.  The  Davis  fam- 
ily remains  there  and  the  others  go  on  to- 
ward the  San  Juan.  Scouts  return  to 
Moenkopi  and  report  the  arrival  of  the 
Harrimans  on  the  San  Juan. 
The  James  L.  Davis  family  and  the 
scouts  leave  to  join  the  Harrimans,  and 
Mary  and  Elizabeth  are  reunited.  Mary's 
baby  is  born  after  a  difficult  confinement. 
The  families  at  Montezuma  are  destitute 
for  food.  Four  scouts  from  the  main 
company  arrive,  but  bring  no  supplies. 
James  and  Mary  Davis,  returning  to  their 
homestead  from  a  visit  with  the  Harri- 
mans, are  confronted  with  trouble. 
"Pa!     It's  Indians!"  Ted  Davis  cries. 
A  
small,  startled  group,  in  sight 
of  their  lonely,   dark   home, 
James   Davis  and  his  family 
stood  and  faced  the  Indians,  three 
of  them,  young  and  belligerent,  ar- 
rogantly possessive. 
"How!"  James  Davis  cried.  "Dis- 
cause?" 
"How!"  The  Indians  repeated 
his  greeting.  "Discause,"  they  said, 
affirmatively. 
James  turned  to  his  son.  "My  boy 
Ted,  you  take  your  sister  by  the 
hand  and  go  to  meet  them,"  he  in- 
Page  754 
structed  in  a  quiet  voice.  "We 
have  no  cause  to  fear.  They  say  they 
are  cold.  We  will  ask  them  in  to 
get  warm  at  our  fire." 
Ted  looked  at  his  mother  in  ques- 
tioning surprise.  Her  lips  formed 
the  word  yes,  and  she  gave  Emily  a 
little  push  toward  him. 
But  Emily  drew  back,  hiding  her 
face  in  her  mother's  skirts,  whimper- 
ing in  fear. 
Mary  whispered  to  her,  "Be 
brave,  sweet  one,  your  papa  will  not 
let  the  Indians  hurt  his  little  girl. 
You  can  show  the  Indians  that  we 
put  our  trust  in  Heavenly  Father." 
Emily  lifted  her  head  and  gave 
her  hand  to  the  big  brother  whom 
she  adored.  Ted  clasped  her  fingers 
tightly,  and  they  went  forward  till 
they  were  at  the  edge  of  the  door- 
yard.  James  and  Man'  came  behind 
them,  each  with  a  child  by  the  hand, 
the  baby  held  comfortably  against 
its  father's  shoulder. 
The  Indians  showed  plainly  that 
they  were  surprised  at  the  manner 
of  their  approach. 
As  they  got  closer  to  the  Indians, 
Ted  tried  to  speak  to  them,  but  his 
tongue  was  stiff  with  fright.  Emily 
tugged  at  his  hand  to  remind  him 
that  he  should  greet  the  Indians. 
Ted  opened  his  mouth,  but  no 
sound  would  come.  He  tried  again, 
but  did  no  better.  Emily  pinched 
his  arm,  looking  at  him  in  surprise. 
Ted  looked  at  her  helplessly.  To  save

WHERE  TRAILS  RUN  OUT  755 
his  life,  he  could  not  speak  or  move.  fear.    It  had  been  such  a  paralyzing 
He  had  never  known  fear  in  his  life  thing  that  he  had  been  powerless 
before,  and  could  not  understand  it  against  it.  But  acting  like  a  sissy  was 
now.    Usually,  if  things  threatened  his  own  fault.     His  little  sister,  six 
him,  he  became  angry.  And  under  years  old,  was  a  better  pioneer  than 
that  impulse  he  would  tackle  any-  he  was! 
thing.    This  feeling  of  fear  left  him  He  gave  the  coals  a  poke,  blowing 
helpless  and  ashamed.  on  them  with  short,  angry  breaths, 
Emily  pulled  her  hand  from  his  until  they  flamed  to  a  blaze.  Emily 
stiff  fingers  and  marched  straight  knew  her  big  brother  was  afraid, 
up  to  the  scowling  Indians.  She  That  was  why  she  ran  ahead  to 
smiled  an  entrancing  smile  and  meet  the  ugly  smart  alecks  of  In- 
asked,  "Discause?"  She  shuddered,  dians,  he  thought,  and  felt  like  run- 
suggesting  that  they  must  be  very  ning  away  and  hiding  himself, 
cold.  "O-000--0,"  she  said,  and  James,  keenly  sensitive  to  his  chil- 
smiled  again.  dren  and  their  needs,  saw  the  drama 
The  pantomime  was  engaging  and  that  was  taking  place  in  Ted's  soul, 
fearless.    To  the  Indians  it  was  un-  so  plainly  written  in  his  face.  "My 
expected.     They  looked  the  white  boy  Ted,"  he  spoke  naturally,  as  un- 
family  over  with  pleased  approval,  concerned  as  he  would  have  been 
"Discause,"  they  agreed,   "muncha  if  he  were  going  to  tell  the  boy  to 
discause!"     They   repeated  Emily's  do  his  chores,  "you  take  the  Indians 
pantomime    of     being    cold,     and  to  the  barrel  down  by  the  canal,  so 
laughed  at  each  other's  performance,  they  can  wash  for  supper.  It's  so  darn 
dark  they'll  not  be  able  to  find  it 
"pMILY  reached  out  her  hand  and  alone.    And  by  the  time  you  and 
took  hold  of  the  nearest  Indian's  those  big  fellers  get  back,  your  Ma 
sleeve.     "You  can  get  warm  at  our  will  have  the  food  on  the  table." 
house,"  she  said.  "Can't  he  papa?"  Ted  looked  up  at  his  father  with 
The  Indians  hesitated.  James  said  adoring  eyes.    "You  bet,  Pa,"  he  an- 
"How!"  again,  and  opened  his  door,  swered.     "That's  just  what  I    was 
Mary  followed  him,  and  at  the  door  goin'  to  do!" 
she  turned  and  motioned  for  the  In-  He  motioned  for  the  Indians  to 
dians  to  follow  her  into  the  house,  follow  him,  and    they  all    left  the 
Mechanically,  Ted  followed  the  In-  house.    Pa  don't  think  I'm  a  cow- 
dians.    He  uncovered  the  coals  from  ard!  he  thought,   pride  in   himself 
the  ashes,  piled  the  split  pitch-pine  returning  as  he  walked  along  in  the 
kindlings  on  the  darkened  coals  and  lead,  an'— an'  I'm  not!     I  just  lost 
blew  them  to  life  with  long  trem-  my  nerve! 
bling  breaths.  He  was  grateful  for  Not  knowing  that  Ted  could 
something  to  do  that  would  help  speak  their  language,  the  Indians  be- 
him  hide  the  tears  he  could  not  gan  talking  freely,  laughing  and  fool- 
choke  back.  He  had  been  a  cow-  ing  with  each  other.  "The  white 
ard,  outside,  and  now  he  was  acting  man  is  good,"  they  decided.  "The 
like  a  baby.  He  brushed  his  sleeve  boy  is  brave.  The  little  papoose  is 
across  his  eyes,  more  ashamed  of  nice.  She  is  very  happy  and  nice!" 
his  tears  than  he  was  of  his  show  of  Ted  smiled,  and  was  tempted  to

756  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER   1947 
start  talking   to  them  in  their  Ian-  James   told  them  in  sign  language 
guage,  but  decided  that  his  father  that  they  could  sleep  by  the  fire.  He 
had   had  a  purpose  in  not  letting  and  his  family  would  sleep   in  the 
them  know  that  he  could  talk  with  only  other  room  in  the  house, 
them.     He   walked  rapidly   toward  Above  the  fireplace  hung  his  load- 
the  barrel  of  water  which  was  kept  ed  gun,  and  he  left  it  hanging  there, 
for  washing  purposes.     He  showed  though  he  had  seen  the  Indians  eye- 
the  Indians  how  to  fill  the  basin  that  ing  it  furtively, 
stood  on  a  bench  by  the  barrel,  then  In    the     dark,    in    their    room, 
he  sat  down  cross-legged  in  the  sand  fames  and  Mary  lay  for  a  long  time, 
to  wait  for  them.    When    the    In-  listening  for  any  stealthy  tread  that 
dians  finished  washing,  Ted  ducked  would  warn  them  of  their  danger, 
his  own  head  and  face,  and  laughing  Ted,  too,  had  lain  tense  and  wake- 
with  the  Indians,  came  filing  back  ful,  reviewing  in  his  mind  the  events 
to  the  house.  of  the  day— the  coming  of  the  four 
scouts,  the  thrill    of    getting  news 
\TUrHEN   they  entered  the   room,  from  home,  and  then  the  Indians, 
Mary    and    James    welcomed  who  had  come  with  evil  intent,  who 
the  Indians  again,  and  told  them  to  might  be,  even  then,  plotting  how 
sit  down  at  the  table  with  the  fam-  to  kill  the  white  family  that  was  so 
ily.      The     Indians    hesitated,    but  trustful.    But  as  the  hours  wore  on 
James   motioned   to    them    that  it  and  there  was  no  sound  beyond  the 
was  all  right,  and  they  sat  down  to  thin  board  partition,  he  fell  asleep, 
eat.    Mary  asked  the  blessing  on  the  Mary,   assured  by   the   steady   and 
food,  and  the  family  said  ''Amen."  regular  breathing   of    the    Indians, 
Ted  had  watched  the  Indians  fur-  followed  Ted  into  a  relaxed  sleep, 
tively,  hoping  the  Lord  would  not  James,  alone,  kept  the  full  night's 
think  him  irreverent.  But  he  wanted  vigil. 
to  know  what  the  Indians  would  do  Morning  came.    The  Indians  be- 
while  his  mother  prayed.    Tohissur-  gan    stirring,    unguardedly.     James 
prise,   they  folded   their  arms  and,  combed  his  hair,  made  a  great  show 
sitting  very  straight,  looked  only   at  of  getting  dressed,  and  went  into 
Mary.     Ted's  eyes  followed  theirs,  the  main  room.    He  stirred  the  fire 
In  the  glow  of  the  firelight,  his  moth-  and  stood  before  it  with  his  hands 
cr  looked  very  beautiful   and   very  at  ease  behind  his  back, 
good.  "Weno  se  kish,"  the  Indians  said, 
Mary    served    the    Indians    bran  and   shaking  James'  hand,  each  in 
pancakes,  stewed  beef,  and  a  cup  of  solemn  friendliness,  they  went  away, 
precious  molasses  that  she  had  been  The  gun  above  the  mantle  had  not 
saving  for  cough  medicine.  been  touched.     On  the  table  lay  a 
The  children  eyed  the  molasses  string  of  bright  turquoise  beads  be- 
longingly,  but  watched  the  Indians  side  Emily's  crumpled  little  hair  rib- 
eat  it  without  saying  a  word.  bon. 
"Weno,"  the  Indians  said,  smack- 
ing their  lips  over  the  rare  sweet.  '"THERE  followed  long  days  of  cold 
"Weno!"  and  hunger.    The  children,  im- 
When  they  had  finished   eating,  properly  nourished,  had  wasted    in

Willard   Luce 
"NAVAJO  TWINS"  AT  BLUFF,  UTAH