[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

On that occasion we made a trip of 600 miles in six weeks, mostly on foot Eurini Ruihi Reweti  Edwin Lewis Davis Page 750
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HE two surviving daughters of President Brigham Young, Mabel Y. Sanborn, 84, and Fannie Van Cott Y. Clayton, 77, have been featured at many Centennial events. When the cornerstone of the "This Is the Place" monument was laid, they placed the historical records in the copper box which was sealed and deposited in a vault in the cornerstone. At the unveiling of the monument, they participated in drawing the cover from a plaque depicting their father with other figures. Mrs. Clayton was unable to go, but Mrs. Sanborn rode to and from Nauvoo in the luxurious drawing room of the airplane of the president of the United Air Lines, the "O'Connor," named for the first stewardess of the line, who was also a guest on the ship. A Latter-day Saint girl, Dorothy Lundgreen, was stewardess, and Captain Claron U. Pratt, a grandson of Parley Pratt, was pilot. They returned from Nauvoo in six hours, as compared with the 106 day trek of the pioneers. CADDIE DAVIS VINCENT, a granddaughter of Martin Harris, one of the three witnesses of the Book of Mormon, died July 29, at the age of 83, in Cutler, Ohio. In 1869, Edward Stevenson, returning from a mission, met his old friend, Martin Harris, going into the Kirtland temple with a Book of Mormon under his arm, and the following year was instrumental in persuading him to come to Utah, where he bore testimony, from the Tabernacle pulpit, to the divine origin of the sacred book. Caddie was born in Utah, a daughter of Julia Harris and Walter Davis. She later married Mr. Vincent and lived in Ohio. She is survived by three sons, some grandchildren and great-grandchildren. A noted painter of church murals, Mrs. Velda Buys Gately, living in California, was born in Heber, Utah, and attended the University of Utah. She recently completed an assignment of seven years' duration decorating the Church of the Transfiguration in Los Angeles. One of her paintings hangs in the McKinley ward chapel in Salt Lake City. Two secular scenes are exhibited by Alice Merrill Horne in the downstairs lobby of the Hotel Utah. The artist hopes to paint some of the great scenes from Latter-day Saint history. HOME recent experiments at Johns Hopkins University indicate that in a given time women can do more mental work they men can, and that they do it more accurately. M'ss MITTIE ARNOLD and Miss Margaret E. Thomas, started an herb garden a few years ago, as a hobby. They now have one of the largest and most famous herb farms in the United States, at Greene, R. I. Page