[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science The Jacobs]
LESSON DEPARTMENT 787
Social Science Essentials in Home Training Lesson 4
The Observance of the Sabbath Day Elder Joseph Jacobs For Tuesday, February 24, 1948
Objective: To show that the command regarding Sabbath day observance is just as binding on us now as it has ever been, and that through training and the formation of proper habits in the home the Sabbath will be spent worshipfully and the attendant blessings received. Why Do We Have the Sabbath Day? THE laxness that exists today in Sabbath observance is one manifestation of the letdown in religion.
When the majority of people disregard the "Lord's day," it is a sign of decadence in spiritual matters a spiritual lethargy. It would appear that many question the need of a day in which to worship God. The setting aside of one day in seven to worship an Almighty Creator has come down to us from the very beginning of time. The earliest record we have of a sacred day, as recorded in the Book of Abraham 5:1-2, says: And thus we will finish the heavens and the earth, and all the hosts of them. And the Gods said among themselves: On the seventh time we will end our work... And we will rest on the seventh time from all our work which we have counseled. Also, in Genesis 2:1-3, we read: Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it. Thus, even before the foundation of this world was laid, the blueprint of its creation called for one sacred day in seven. We read elsewhere, referring to this day, that the Lord hallowed it and called it a day of rest. And, again, from, amidst the thunderings and lightnings of Mount Sinai, the word of Jehovah expressly forbade any kind of work to be performed on the Sabbath because it was a holy day. We know that the Savior recognized the Sabbath day as a day of worship, for we read in Luke 4:16, 31: And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read.... And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days. Does This Command to Observe the Sabbath Day Apply to Us Now? To those who think that this commandment applied only to ancient Israel and that times have changed now, the following revelation, given in our day, is called to their attention: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; for verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High... But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thy oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full (D. & C. 59:9-14).
788 RELIEF SOCIETy
MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1947
Is the Sabbath Day Designed for Recreation?
Every president of the Church has felt impressed to make some positive statement regarding the observance of the Sabbath. We quote from only two. President Brigham Young spoke as follows:
Now, remember, my brethren, those who go skating, buggy riding or on excursions on the Sabbath day—and there is a great deal of this practiced—are weak in the faith. Gradually, little by little, the spirit of their religion leaks out of their hearts and their affections, and by and by they begin to see faults in their brethren, faults in the doctrines of the Church, faults in the organization. . . . (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 255; 1941 edition, page 165).
President Joseph F. Smith said:
The Sabbath is a special day for you to worship, to pray, and to show zeal and ardor in your religious faith and duty—to pay devotions to the Most High. . . . Men are not made to be put to severe labor upon that day, but they plow, and plant and haul and dig. They are not taxing when they linger around the home all day on Sunday, doing odd jobs that they have been too busy to do on other days.
Men are not showing zeal and ardor in their religious faith and duty when they hustle off early Sunday morning on the cars, with teams, in automobiles, to the canyons, the resorts, and to visit friends or places of amusement, with their wives and children. . . . They are not paying their devotions in the way to the Most High,
Not in seeking pleasure and recreation upon that holy time, and attention in the worship of the Lord, nor can they thus rejoice in the spirit of forgiveness and worship that comes with partaking of the holy sacrament. . . . Such is not the course that will keep them unspotted from the world, but rather one that will deprive them of the rich promises of the Lord, give them sorrow instead of joy, and unrest and anxiety instead of the peace that comes with works of righteousness.
Let us play and take recreation to our heart' content during other days, but on the Sabbath let us rest, worship, go to the house of prayer, partake of the sacrament, eat our food with singleness of heart, and pay our devotions to God, that the fulness of the earth may be ours, and that we may have peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come (Essentials: Joseph F. Smith; Gospel Doctrine, Chap ter 14, pp. 307, 309).
To advance arguments in favor of taking no daily nourishment for the sustenance of the physical body would be considered very foolish. Yet there are many who fail to take seriously the advice of our leaders who tell us that our spirits need nourishment and strength just as well as our bodies. The Lord has ordained that we spend six days out of seven for rest and the feeding of the body and one day out of seven for rest and the feeding of the spirit. The more human and subject to many temptations. This being so, it is the tendency to favor the physical desires far above their due proportion. President Brigham Young said:
We are under the necessity of assembling here from Sabbath to Sabbath, and in Ward meetings . . . , to teach, talk, pray, sing, and exhort. What for? To keep us in remembrance of our God and our holy religion. Is this custom necessary? Yes, because we are so liable to forget—so prone to wander . . . . (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 165).
LESSON DEPARTMENT What Factors Influence Sabbath Day Observance?
There is much in the attitude families take toward Sabbath day observance, and in the habits they incorporate into their lives.
Certain standards must be set up and adhered to. If the mother and father from the outset of marriage set the proper example, then the children will grow up accepting the proper procedure for that day.
They will usually conform willingly if the proper type of Sunday conduct has been the rule. True, especially when boys and girls reach adolescence, if their associates take part in unseemly activities on the Sabbath day, they may want to go along with them.
They may be ridiculed if they do not, and many young people are not strong enough +o take ridicule, and so they rebel at the restraint imposed upon them.
This is one big reason why they should be particular in choosing friends.
Weare all influenced greatly by the companions we have. In an article titled "Companionship," Elder Adam S.
Bennion tells of giving a talk to a group of men in a penitentiary and of some of the things they told him after the talk: But what they did say without exception was: "We're here because we got in with the wrong crowd."
Will you be good enough to look across your friendship list? Who are your friends, and how did you come to have them? Don't you sometimes look back and wonder?... I have talked with boys and asked, "Why do you go with this particular boy?"
Almost invariably the answer is, "I just picked up with him...." Out of ten thousand people that may live in your vicinity particularly, how many do you know?
What friends have you chosen and why? I'd like to offer this suggestion while you're young. Why not cast about to find the friends that you'd choose to put in the roll that 789 you're going to keep. That's a matter of There isn't a boy who can't go out and in a few days meet ten other boys, one of whom will make his whole life different.
Have you met the kind of fellow who is lifting you up? Are you meeting the kind of people that you are proud of or happy to meet, or have you just chanced into a friendship?
Consider carefully, the C of chance and the C of choice. How May We Prepare for Sunday?
When the Sabbath approaches, we must be prepared to observe it in a proper manner. We should do all we can to feed and elevate the spirit and give it the bread of eternal life. And, conversely, we should refrain from doing those things that are contrary or out of harmony with the spirit of a sacred Sabbath.
Nothing should be done which will detract from the sacredness of that day.
Concerted effort should go toward planning for the Sabbath day. 'The preparation beforehand of clothing and food for that day contributes greatly to its proper observance.
Many of us remember the days of our childhood when Saturday night was spent in polishing shoes, bathing, and laying out freshly laundered clothing for wear at Sunday School the next morning.
Planning for the Sunday dinner on Saturday will eliminate unnecessary work.
Many mothers work more in the preparation of the Sunday meal than any other; but we should remember the words of the Lord: ''Let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart."
There are many dishes that can easily be prepared the day before. One family had the habit of spending Saturday evening studying and preparing Sunday School lessons for the following day. 790 "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath."
Such was the rebuke of the Master to those who prescribed ridiculous and fantastic rules for Sabbath day observance and tried to trap him.
Since the Sabbath was made for man, man should have the right attitude toward it. The Sabbath is not a deprivation designed to impoverish, but is rather a high privilege designed to make life truly rich and joyful. It is largely a question of one's spiritual and intellectual capacity to devote one day out of seven to high spiritual pursuits.
That capacity should be developed by all if they would truly live.
