[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Sewing in Pioneer Jensen]

Sewing in Pioneer Days Leda Thompson Jensen Former Member, Relief Society General Board O the increasing number of households in which sewing and needlework are almost a lost art, a recital of these activities in the homes of the pioneers reads like a page from a dusty old book of adventure.
Great industrial plants and mass production have released the descendants of the early pioneers from what to many would seem teal toil and drudgery, but to those who still find joy in the making of clothing in the home and take pride in the creation of lovely home decorations, the sewing activities of the pioneers strike a responsive chord and call forth deep appreciation and admiration for their resourcefulness and ingenuity.
Being isolated and poor, having brought little or nothing with them, the pioneers were dependent upon themselves for necessities and comforts.
They had to use their own hands.
Many of those early settlers were of the best of European artisans, workers in wood, iron, wool, and cotton.
They set about to remedy the situation in which they found themselves and they taught others what they knew.
Very soon after the pioneers reached the Valley, new clothes were needed.
Even with good care, with patching and mending, clothing was bound to wear out. In some instances, until better materials were acquired, old wagon covers and bedticks which had served their original purpose were made into some articles of wearing apparel such as Page 744 men's pants and women's waists. These, also, at last wore out.: Many had not sufficient clothes to last the first year, but no fabrics were available, so they set about to produce their own.
Nearly every family acquired a few sheep from which the wool was sheared, washed, carded, spun, and woven into cloth.
Handmade cards, spinning wheels, reels, and looms were used until it was possible to import the necessary machinery, Black and white cloth came from the natural wool of black and white sheep. If black and white wool were mixed before carding, gray yarn was the result. If other colors were desired, the pioneer women used rabbit brush for yellow dye, the root of the madder plant for red, and imported indigo for blue.
This indigo was almost worth its weight in gold.
With the three primary colors, it was possible to make combinations which produced many different colors.
Wool was the first available fiber, but Brigham Young and his people were not satisfied with woolen material alone. It is doubtful if a more resourceful people ever lived. No venture was too difficult to try, if effort and hard work could bring its fruition. Cotton, linen, and silk were all successfully produced and used for fabrics. The very first goods brought into Utah for sale were brought from Fort Hall in Idaho.
Among other things, calico was sold at fifty cents WOMEN'S FASHIONS 1850-1880 EVAN VEN SEN Courtesy, Violet D. Pierce "EMBROIDERY AND TUCKS" to seventy-five cents a yard. In 1849, the first regular stock of goods for the Utah market was brought in by Utah's first commercial merchants, Livingston and Kinkead.
Goods sold by these first merchants, and others who followed them, were freighted across the prairies in wagon trains until the advent of the railroad in 1869. ITH fabrics made available either from home factories or from goods shipped into the Territory, home manufacturing ceased, but the sewing of the clothing was a problem for every home. A girl's life was one continual round of sewing, from the cradle to the grave.
Even before she was born her layette must be prepared and the task was a much greater one then than it is now.
Fashion and customs, as well as the uneven temperature of fireplace and stove-heated homes, called for more and RELIEf
SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1947 different clothes than the baby wears today. Shirts, bands, pinners, a woolen flannel petticoat, a muslin petticoat, dresses, blankets, and shawls were all made by hand. All the little petticoats and dresses had to be trimmed with hand-crocheted lace and insertion and tucks, or decorated with hemstitching and drawn work.
Sometimes eyelet embroidery extended from the bottom of the dress upward on the skirt for twelve or fifteen inches.
Dresses for babies of both sexes were long. To be really fashionable, they had to touch the floor when the baby was lying on his mother's lap.
When baby began to sit alone and his feet were freed from the pinners, then the shortening process took place. Usually, the first long dresses were laid aside for future use, while new dresses and petticoats of a shorter length were substituted and home-knit' stockings were added to the wardrobe. If the long dresses were not saved for other babies, then they were shortened by cutting off the bottom.
Lace and insertion had to be taken off and sewed on again.
When the baby reached the walking stage, in many cases, a second shortening of the baby clothes took place.
Nearly all the stockings were long, woolen for winter, cotton for summer; white for Sunday, black for everyday. All these stockings were hand-knit.
Much of the underwear was made by hand of woven fabrics. Children's clothes were similar in style to those of their parents, long pants on the boys, belted dresses with skirts to the shoe tops or ankles for the girls, and always the woolen petticoat with two or more muslin ones trimmed with tucks, insertion, and lace. Had styles for children SEWING IN PIONEER DAYS been as simple as they are today, many stitches would have been saved for busy mothers, Settlers in the communities removed from Salt Lake City and other larger towns made trips to trading centers in the fall and spring for fabrics from which to make winter and summer clothes.
Bolts of factory (unbleached muslin) would be purchased in the fall.
Underwear for the family, petticoats, chemises, sheets, pillow slips, and tablecloths were all made from the factory.
During the winter these articles were washed several times and left on the clothesline between washings until they were bleached white.
Lace and insertion, which had been crocheted or knit during the winter, were sewed on the new garments before they were worn in the spring. As soon as the girls in a home were old enough to assist with the problems of clothing a family, they were expected to help. All girls learned to knit and crochet, and they often had to combine their work with their play by determining who could knit so many rounds on a stocking or crochet so many inches of lace in the least time. One pair of little girls used to unwind enough yarn from their balls to reach around the out.
Side of their house, then they played 4 game to see which girl could first knit into her stocking the unwound yarn.
Many were the girls who sheared the sheep, washed the wool, and carded it, spun the yam, dyed, and wove it into cloth from which they made their own dresses and clothing for other members of the family.
Necessity is the mother of invention, so women learned the art of patternmaking and every available 747 scrap of paper was saved for that purpose. It is said that one woman, who had been a seamstress in England, brought with her 4 pattern for men's pants.
That pattern was altered to fit the small or large man, and from that one pattern many pairs of pants were cut. The exchanging of patterns and cutting Many patterns from an original were common practices. Naturally, the size of most wardrobes was extremely modest. One best dress was the most the average girl had. It was brushed and mended and carefully cared for, but when no longer nice enough looking to be worn away from home, or when a new one was available, it was used to wear around the house, being protected by long front aprons from the dirt and grime of household tasks, For Sunday and dress-up occasions those front aprons were made of Courtesy, Dr. Emerson Young "BUTTONS AND BRAID" Courtesy, Minnie Margetts "LACE AND INSERTION" white material, often elaborately and artistically trimmed with tucks, lace, drawn work, or embroidery. HAT multitudes of stitches and long hours of labor could have been saved had the styles been as simple as they are today. But the full, many-gored skirts that swept the ground, the long, full, leg-o'-mutton sleeves, basque waists with whalebones sewed to every seam, bustles and hoops, all multiplied the stitches needed to make one dress. The pioneer women loved beautiful things and they were amenable to the dictates of fashion, as are we today. So, no matter how much cloth or how many stitches were needed, dame fashion was obeyed.
Hats were probably the first accessories to be made. The first ones, after the sunbonnets, were made from straw gleaned from the fields. The straws were sorted as to fineness, soaked in warm water, and braided. The braids were pressed flat, and then sewed together to form hats.
Colored straws were used for trimming, being made into bands, ribbons, and flowers.
Sometimes very elegant hats were made entirely of horsehair.
Cloth hats of denim were made for everyday use, and for better hats, calico and muslin were used.
Flowers were made from a material called book-muslin, resembling present-day organdy.
Some hats were quilted for variety.
Brims were often heavily stitched, sometimes with fancy stitches to help them hold their shape.
Other hats were crocheted from wool and cotton yarns.
Accessories such as collars, berthas, fichus, head scarves, fascinators, handkerchiefs, gloves, mittens, and mitts were knit, netted, or crocheted to add that little different touch that women have always desired. The problem of clothing was not the only one for nimble fingers. Carpets, rugs, bedding, tablecloths, towels, and decorative touches for the homes were all part of home sewing and handicraft.
Here again fashion's dictates were very demanding.
Cushions and chair backs or tidies, throws over the top of large portraits and pictures on the wall; covers of all types for the tops of tables, dressers, buffets and sideboards; bedspreads, and curtains were all part of the up-to-date home, and all helped to satisfy the woman's desire for cultural and beautiful surroundings.
Some of the social activities of pioneer women were rag bees and quilting parties. 
  NOVEMBER 1947 SEWING IN PIONEER DAYS The making of patchwork quilts was a fascinating subject in and of itself. Clean, sweet straw from the threshing floor filled the first mattresses, and feather ticks were a must in every household. Sometimes even milkweed down was gathered for mattresses and pillows.
Girls in the homes helped their mothers provide all these things and very laborious the tasks were at times, even though the girls were apt and willing, for all the sewing done in early pioneer homes was done by hand. The first practical sewing machine was not patented until 1846, and many years passed before machines were brought to Utah and found their way into the small towns and villages of the State.
WHEN a girl left her home to be married she was very fortunate if she had a new dress for the occasion. Often her "best" dress had to suffice. Most girls took to their new home a piece of homemade carpet, a rag rug or two, a patchwork quilt, a feather bed, a tick for straw, a piece of fortunate, a factory tablecloth, sheets, and pillow slips.
No matter how humble the home to which her young husband took her, with her two hands the young wife began to make that home as attractive as possible. When babies were due to arrive she began to stitch and stitch to prepare for their coming, and so the cycle began all over again.
Very early in every Latter-day Saint community, a division of labor naturally came about. Being a good seamstress is an art and a definite accomplishment, a talent which all women do not possess. Among the pioneers were women who loved to sew. Those who found it a difficult task were only too glad to hire the services of others. So each community had its dressmakers, its weavers, its women who carded and spun wool, who pieced quilts, and who knit for others in exchange for services or for produce and commodities rather than for money, which was often very scarce.
The many activities reviewed in this recital seem very remote, something of the long ago, but they are worth reviewing and remembering as part of the complete pattern of pioneer living that made Utah and the West what they are today.