[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Real Jones]
ty of  her  voice.  "Why,  you're  a  real 
professional,  aren't  you?"  exclaimed 
Ella. 
"Oh,  no,"  she  smiled  and  then 
added,  "Do  you  mind  very  much  if 
I  sing  it  in  German?" 
"We'd  love  to  hear  you,"  an- 
swered Ella,  without  even  glancing 
at  Clay. 
Erna  sang  "Stille  Nacht,  Heilige 
Nacht"  with  such  feeling  and  nostal- 
gia for  something  that  was  gone  for- 
ever that  Ella  felt  her  throat  tighten, 
and  Mrs.  Hubbard  exclaimed  with 
genuine  warmth,  "You  really  are  an 
artist!" 
A  minute  later  Ted,  who  had  been 
talking  to  Mr.  Munsey,  boomed  out, 
"By  Jove!  Then  you  must  be  the 
J.  B.  Munsey  who  writes  the  mystery 
stories."  Scarcely  waiting  for  Mun- 
sey's  nod,  he  called  out  to  Ella, 
"Why   didn't  you  let  us  know  you 
were  entertaining  a  celebrity?  I 
haven't  missed  one  of  his  stories  in 
years." 
She  was  not  too  much  surprised 
when  Janet  dropped  in  about  ten 
o'clock,  followed  by  two  gangling 
youths.  The  girl  made  no  apologies 
beyond,  "There  wasn't  a  thing  but 
punch  and  wafers  and  we're  starved. 
I  knew  you'd  have  oodles  of  food. 
May  we  have  just  a  few  slivers  of 
turkey?" 
"About  three  inches  per  sliver?" 
added  one  of  the  boys. 
She  set  food  on  the  table  and,  as 
she  went  back  into  the  living  room, 
she  heard  Mrs.  Hubbard  say,  "Yes, 
there's  a  stability  about  our  old 
homes  and  families  that  one  seldom 
finds  in  these  days." 
"Indeed  you  are  right,"  answered 
Clay,  as  heartily  as  if  he  had  been 
president  of  the  "Love  the  Old 
Home"  society.  "That's  our  idea 
exactly." 
It  was  after  midnight  when  they 
left,  with  Nancy  saying,  "I  had  no 
idea  you  knew  so  many  interesting 
people,"  and  Ted  adding  in  an  un- 
dertone, "But  I  don't  think  it  was 
quite  fair  for  you  to  ditch  your  fam- 
ily for  them." 
"I  never  shall  again,"  promised 
Ella. 
In  the  rush  of  goodbyes  Mr.  Mun- 
sey managed  to  say,  "Thank  you  for 
a  most  delightful  evening.  I  do  hope 
that  I  may  come  again." 
"Of  course,"  smiled  Ella.  "I  hope 
that  you  will." 
She  closed  the  door  and  began  in 
a  sort  of  happy  trance  to  clear  up 
the  dining  room  table.  She  believed 
that  the  next  time  she  went  to  the 
beauty  salon  she'd  try  that  new  hair- 
do with  the  swirls!

Real  Bargains 
Ivie  H.  Jones 
President,  Spanish-American  Mission  Relief  Society 
A  bargain  is  not  a  bargain  unless  it  their  size  should  I  run  across  a  bar- 
is  the  proper  size  or  is  usable.  I  gain  or  something  especially  attrac- 
carry  in  my  purse,  at  all  times,  a  tive.  About  twice  a  year  I  try  to 
small  flat  notebook  in  which  is  writ-  bring  this  list  up  to  date,  making  a 
ten  the  sizes  of  some  of  my  win-  note  of  the  changes  in  size, 
dows,  length  and  width  for  table-  In  the  bottom  of  my  purse  I  keep 
cloths,  amount  of  material  needed  a  tiny,  flat,  metal  tape  measure.  It  is 
for  dickies,  blouses,  etc.,  and  numer-  only  a  foot  long  when  opened  up 
ous  other  measurements,  so  that  and  folds  up  to  four  inches  in  length, 
when  I  see  a  bargain  I  will  know  the  so  it  really  takes  up  very  little  space 
correct  sizes  and  amounts  to  buy.  in  my  purse  Sometimes  garments 
On  another  page  in  my  little  at  sales  are  not  correctly  marked  for 
memo  book  I  record  the  sizes  for  size.  If  there  is  a  question,  out 
hats,  shoes,  hose,  underwear,  cover-  comes  my  metal  tape, 
alls,  and  shirts  for  the  children,  in-  It  is  always  thrilling  to  receive  a 
laws,  and  grandchildren.  Whenever  letter  saying:  'The  things  you  sent 
I  get  a  chance,  without  them  catch-  the  children  for  Christmas  fit  per- 
ing  me,  I  also  measure  the  width  of  fectly,  how  did  you  ever  guess  the 
their  clothes  across   the  shoulders,  size?" 
the  length  of  their  sleeves,  length  of         It  is  easy  to  guess  when  one  has 
their  hose  from  heel  to  toe,  length  correct  measurements,  and  when  I 
of  the  little  girl's  skirt,  boy's  trous-  see  a  bargain  I  can  buy  unafraid,  for 
ers,  or  any  other  measurements  that  I  know  how  much  to  buy  and  what 
would   be   helpful    in    determining  size/ 
REVEALED
