[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Mary NOVEMBER]
726 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1947 
In  this  procedure,  however,  the 
Relief  Society  officers  have  a  vital 
function  at  every  step.  The  General 
Relief  Society  officers  advise  with 
the  General  Church  Welfare  Com- 
mittee in  the  preparation  of  the 
Church-wide  budget;  the  respective 
stake  Relief  Society  presidents  in 
each  region  advise  with  the  regional 
council  and  bishops'  regional  coun- 
cil in  accepting  from  the  General 
Committee  the  regional  production 
budget;  each  stake  Relief  Society 
presidency  advises  with  the  stake 
presidency  and  other  members  of 
the  stake  Welfare  committee  in  ac- 
cepting from  the  regional  council 
the  stake  production  budget;  and 
each  ward  Relief  Society  presidency 
advises  with  the  ward  bishopric  and 
other  ward  Welfare  committee 
members  in  accepting  from  the  stake 
Welfare  committee  the  portion  of 
the  stake  budget  which  is  to  be  pro- 
duced in  the  ward. 
A  few  budget  items,  as  determined 
by  the  General  Church  Welfare 
Committee,  are  produced  on  a 
Church-wide  basis,  such  as  flour  and 
cereals  and  evaporated  milk.  Some, 
as  determined  by  the  regional  of- 
ficers with  the  approval  of  the  Gen- 
eral Committee,  are  produced  on  a 
regional  basis,  such  as  fresh  milk  in 
the  Jordan  Valley  Region  and  citrus 
fruits  in  the  Southern  California 
Region.  Others,  as  determined  by 
the  stake  and  ward  officers,  are  pro- 
duced on  a  stake  basis.  The  bulk 
of  Welfare  production,  however,  is, 
as  it  should  be,  done  on  ward  Wel- 
fare projects.  These  projects,  under 
the  direction  of  the  ward  bishop, 
should  be  determined  upon  and  giv- 
en direction  by  the  ward  Welfare 
committee.  In  the  ward  Welfare 
committee  meeting,   at  which    all 
three  members  of  the  ward  Relief 
Society  presidency  are  to  be  present, 
should  be  determined  what  these 
ward  projects  are  to  be,  where  they 
are  to  be  established,  how  they  are 
to  be  financed,  and  who  is  to  do  r^e 
volunteer  work  to  insure  their  suc- 
cess. Always  it  must  be  kept  in 
mind  that  those  receiving  support 
through  the  Welfare  Program  are 
to  work  on  these  and  other  projects 
to  the  extent  of  their  ability. 
TN  most  instances  the  responsibility 
for  the  sewing  budget,  which  in- 
cludes clothing  and  bedding,  as  also 
the  responsibility  for  a  good  deal  of 
the  work  in  processing  foods,  is  as- 
signed to  the  ward  Relief  Society  of- 
ficers. This  is  as  it  should  be,  be- 
cause the  responsibility  for  the  fi- 
nancing and  for  the  work  necessary 
in  producing  the  clothing  and  food 
for  the  ward  Welfare  budget  should 
be  borne  by  the  men  and  boys  and 
the  women  and  girls  of  the  ward  in 
about  the  same  proportion  as  is  done 
in  a  family.  I  have  in  mind,  of 
course,  a  well-balanced  and  well-reg- 
ulated Latter-day  Saint  family,  not 
a  primitive  family  where  the  women 
do  it  all,  nor  one  in  which  there 
is  no  sewing  machine  and  no  need- 
les, and  in  which  the  only  kitchen 
utensil  is  a  commercial  can  opener. 
In  discharging  this  responsibility, 
I  feel  that  the  Relief  Society  officers 
—general,  stake,  and  ward— should 
fully  understand  and  keep  in  mind 
that  they  may  call  upon  all  the  wom- 
en and  girls  of  the  ward  to  lend  a 
hand  in  this  budget  production 
work.  By  no  means  are  they  limited 
to  the  regular  attenders  at  the  Re- 
lief Society  meetings.  Many  Pri- 
mary Associations  and  some  Young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement  As-

THE  JOYS  OF  WELFARE  SERVICE 
727 
sociations  have  inquired  as  to  what 
they  can  do  to  help.  Use  them  and 
the  other  organizations  of  women 
and  girls  as  the  wisdom  of  the  bish- 
opric and  yourselves  dictate,  and 
then  give  all  the  women  and  girls 
individually,  if  they  have  not  been 
reached  through  an  organization,  an 
opportunity  to  work  at  the  cannery, 
the  sewing  center,  or  some  other 
project.  If  they  are  unable  to  go  to 
such  projects,  take  some  work  to 
their  homes.  Remember  that  these 
projects  are  ward-wide  assignments. 
I  cannot  say  too  much  for  what 
the  women  of  the  Church,  under 
your  leadership,  have  already  done 
in  this  program.  I  am  sure  that  your 
record  is  unequaled.  I  would  be 
surprised  to  learn  that  any  produc- 
tion assignment  properly  entrusted 
to  Relief  Society  officers  had  failed 
because  of  reasons  within  their  con- 
trol. They  uniformly  get  it  done. 
I  would  like,  however,  to  discuss 
briefly  with  you  procedures  in  get- 
ting it  done.  The  most  important 
thing  in  the  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram is  people— not  people  in  the 
mass,  but  individual  men,  women, 
and  children.  It  is  for  their  salva- 
tion that  the  Welfare  Program  was 
inaugurated,  and  for  their  salvation 
it  persists.  Announcing  the  ap- 
pointment of  the  General  Church 
Welfare  Committee  and  the  inau- 
guration of  the  Welfare  Plan,  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  did 
not  say  that  their  primary  purpose 
was  to  produce    the  necessities  of 
Photograph  submitted  by  Reta  Broadbent 
WELFARE  SEWING  EXHIBIT,  THIRTY-THIRD  WARD,  BONNEVILLE  STAKE 
April  29,  1947 
Front  row  seated,  left  to  right:  Maude  Mellville;  Harriett  Worthington;  Ida  John- 
son; Ella  and  Lynette  Hunter. 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Elizabeth  Stevens;  Fannie  Nuttall,  First  Coun- 
selor; Alida  Larsen;  Bretta  Johansen;  Margaret  Burns;  Reta  Broadbent,  President. 
Included  in  this  ward's  Welfare  sewing  were  thirty  children's  dresses,  sixty-one  pa- 
jama  suits,  and  many  other  articles.

728
