[Vol34 | November 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Berta H. Christensen]
VOL.  34,  NO.  11  NOVEMBER  1947 
ALL  THAT  LIFTS  TO  BEAUTY 
Berta  H.  Christensen 
We  thank  thee  Lord  for  the  intangibles 
We  cannot  weigh  or  hold  within  the  hand, 
Yet  are  as  integral  to  life  as  breath, 
And  less  elusive  than  the  shore's  white  sand. 
Thanks  for  the  faith  that  goes  with  every  seed 
Into  the  quietly  receptive  loam, 
For  faith  that  lights  a  candle  in  the  dark 
Of  windows,  for  a  loved  one  coming  home. 
For  truth,  which  is  not  bounded  by  a  line, 
Or  margined  by  the  years.    Beyond  the  scars 
Of  doubt  and  disillusionment,  it  lives 
Lasting  and  bright  as  the  eternal  stars. 
Thanks  for  the  tender  reach  of  thought;  the  dream 
Of  spring  beyond  the  ice-encrusted  tree; 
For  laughter  in  a  baby's  eyes,  and  all 
That  lifts  the  heart  to  beauty— thanks  to  thee! 
The   Cover:      "Spires" — Photograph    taken    on    Mount    Timpanogos,    Utah,   by 
Willard  Luce.

.-  n 
A  Perry  Picture 
PILGRIM'S  MONUMENT,  PLYMOUTH,  MASSACHUSETTS

The  Joys  of  Welfare  Service 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney 
Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Assistant  Managing  Director, 
Church  Welfare 
(Delivered  at  the  Officers  Meeting  of  the  Annual  Relief  Society  General  Conference 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Thursday  morning,  October  2,  1947.) 
PRESIDENT     Spafford     and  izations.     This  assignment,  in  the 
counselors,  members  of   the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
Relief  Society  General  Board,  "is  the  relief  of  the  poor,  the  desti- 
and   my   beloved   sisters    from   the  tute,  the  widow  and  the  orphan,  and 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church:  the  exercise  of  all  benevolent  pur- 
I  deem  it  a  high  privilege  to  be  re-  poses,"  for,  said  he,  "the  best  meas- 
quested  to  participate  in   your  an-  ure  of  or  principle  to  bring  the  poor 
nual  Relief  Society  conference.     I  to  repentance  is   to  administer  to 
sincerely  thank  you  for  the  invitation  their  wants.  The  Ladies'  Relief  So- 
and  I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  ciety  is  not  only  to  relieve  the  poor 
will  direct  me,  both  in  what  I  shall  but  to  save  souls."  To  accomplish 
say  to  you  and  in  the  spirit  in  which  this,  he  said,  the  Relief  Society  sis- 
I  shall  say  it.  ters  "will  pour  in  oil  and  wine  to  the 
I  love  the  Relief  Society  workers  wounded    heart    of   the   distressed, 
throughout    the   Church.     I    enjoy  They  will  dry  up  the  tears  of  the 
working  with  them.    They  give  en-  orphans  and  make  the  widow's  heart 
thusiasm,  spirit,  and  refinement  to  to  rejoice." 
the  things  they  touch.    One  of  the         Preliminary    to    the   accomplish- 
great  joys  which  come  to  me  in  my  ment  of  this  assignment  is  the  ardu- 
Welfare  service  is  the  association  I  ous  task  of  providing  clothing,  food 
have  with  the  General  Presidency  of  and  fuel  for  those  in  need.  In  large 
the  Relief  Society— Sister  Spafford,  measure  this  is    done  on  Welfare 
Sister  Sharp,  and  Sister  Garff— and  production  projects.  I  would  like  to 
the  members  of  the  Relief  Society  make  a  little  explanation  about  the 
General  Board.    I  am  persuaded  that  relationship  of  the  Relief  Society  to 
they  are  among  the  elect  daughters  this  production  program  and  their 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.    They  are  responsibility  in  it. 
able  and  accomplished  women,  and 
they  have  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  'PHE    annual   Church-wide    Wel- 
Jesus  Christ  in   their  souls,  which  fare  production   budget  is  pre- 
clothes  them  with  charity,  humility,  pared  by  the  General  Church  Wel- 
and  willing  and  obedient  spirits.  fare  Committee.    The  committee  is
