Look at the Star Beatrice Rordame Parsons
Lucy felt it would never arrive. The crowds were thick and people jostled her. Excited children left harried parents and rushed to the Salvation Army Santa Claus for one last, quick instruction on how to find a particular chimney. The air was scented with pine and holly as men with great armloads pressed against her. Even the red, blue, and green lights had been fastened to the lampposts and they glowed with a gay, Christmasy brilliance. But Lucy frowned. The doctor had said it was neuritis that made her hip ache like that. He had told her to go home and to bed; but how could she? Just a few days before Christmas with so many things to do.
The bus was a long time coming. This year they'd all be together. The words had been humming through her heart all day. Even the pain was quiet when she thought of it. This Christmas must be perfect! Lucy wanted that more than she wanted anything in the world. Ever since she'd had that letter from Hal saying he was sure of his furlough, she had been planning. He was bringing his wife. The family had never met her, though Hal had sent her photograph and written ecstatically:... I was scared that she wouldn't have me. She's been reared by a very wealthy aunt, and I have so little to offer. But I turned on the charm, and she couldn't resist. You'll love her, Mother...
Lucy hoped so, but she wasn't so sure. She had scribbled a friendly little note welcoming Iris into the family and had received a very formal letter in return. Iris' life had been very different from the sort of harum-scarum growing up that Hal had had. Lucy wanted Iris to think well of the family. She had worked hard to make the house look nice. Iris was used to such elegance.
As she boarded the bus, Lucy thought about Ben's sister. She was coming to dinner, too. Ada was a grave old maid. She taught history at high school and Lucy had often pitied her the barrenness of her existence. Ada had missed so much.
Lucy dropped the token in the box and her lips were tender. How much fun Christmas had been when the children were small. But seeing the restless, almost dissatisfied faces about her, Lucy thought of the war. How hard it had become for anyone to have faith in the old, familiar words: Peace on earth, good will toward men! Why, even Link, who was only eleven wished he might have a real machine gun to shoot real bullets.
Lucy shivered as she got off the bus. Crossing the street she saw that the early winter sunset made an intricate pattern of shadows through the leafless trees. Then she forgot its beauty as she realized that Link had not cleaned the walks. When she opened the front door, she saw why he had neglected them. There was a cluster of dripping straps and ice skates on the floor. She must remember, she decided worriedly, to wipe up the snow before it left a stain on the polished floor.
"Is that you, Mother?" The sound of a girlish voice floated down the stairs and Miriam appeared on the landing. She was a pretty girl of fifteen with blue eyes and a long V of brown curls reaching down to the middle of her shoulders. She had been painting her nails and was careful not to touch anything.
Lucy protested. "That's entirely too dark a shade for a young girl."
Miriam blew on her thumb, paying no attention. "Did you get the material?" she asked.
Lucy put her coat on a hanger. She put Miriam's, too, for Miriam had simply flung it on a hook. Then she pointed out a bundle.
"You open it," said Miriam. "My nails might smudge."
Lucy undid the string. Her eyes were on Miriam's face. She did hope the silk would suit. She had had to go to four stores.
"Oh, dear," Miriam pouted, "that isn't what I meant at all. Sally's is a lighter blue. We wanted them exactly alike."
Lucy folded the silk and fastened the string. As Miriam went upstairs, Lucy was conscious that her hip was aching worse than ever. She was so sorry Miriam didn't like the material for her new dress. She had tried to please her. She wondered why it was that everything Sally had seemed so much nicer to Miriam than the things she owned.
When she went into the living room, her husband looked up. He was in his favorite chair, and the lamp was soft above his rumpled brown hair. Lucy dropped a little kiss in the middle of it, and he smiled pleasantly.
"I thought you'd never get home. I'm practically famished."
Lucy smoothed down her fair waves before the round mirror over the buffet and there was a little frown between her dark brows. "Ben, I just couldn't find a thing for Ada. I've given her so many umbrellas, hankies and slips that I'm ashamed to give her any more."
She started to undo one of the packages she had brought into the room, but Ben put out his hand.
"What do you say we wait until some other time, dear? I've got to slip down to the office right after we eat."
Lucy limped a little as she went into the kitchen. All the pleasure and excitement of her shopping trip were slipping away. She sighed as she caught sight of the cabinet. Link had had a snack after school. The peanut butter jar was open, the bread unwrapped. She thought impatiently: "Miriam might have cleared that mess away before she went to dress."
She tied a bright, organdy apron over her frock and cleared the sink. Then she started dinner. Lucy liked things neat. She spent a lot of time over her house and prided herself that she was a good housekeeper. The glasses shone as she carried them into the dining room.
Leona came in while she was setting the table. Leona was almost nineteen, with her father's clear brown eyes and her mother's soft, fair curls. Right now dissatisfied lines etched the corners of her mobile mouth.
"Oh, I wish Christmas was a million miles away," she said as she dropped into a chair. "Nobody knows what I go through at Taylor's."
Leona worked in the office of one of the biggest department stores in the city, and Lucy knew how busy she was. Looking at her as she placed the silver, Lucy saw the same thing in her daughter's face that had been in those on the street cara restlessness that was hard to explain. She knew that Leona and Dave had had another quarrel. Leona wanted to be married before Dave went away. She had her wages at the store, and she could go on living at home. Dave had other ideas. He didn't want to start that way. He said he loved Leona too much to make her suffer.
Lucy sighed. Back in the kitchen she thought about the Christmases of long ago. How secure they had been. How wonderful! She couldn't keep her mind from going back.... She recalled a cold, wintry dawn creeping out of the darkness of the night, excited whispers, the patter of bare feet coming into the bedroom. What expectancy had been in the childish faces. What faith had been in their eyes. Oh, for Christmas as it had been when her children were small!
Now they were changed. Leona was young and lovely yet there were bitter lines about her eyes and a set smile on her lips. She had lost her little-girl laughter, and appeared hard and brittle. Miriam was fast growing into a petulant, thoughtless young woman, thinking of nothing but clothes and fun. Boys like Link, she thought, her hands cold as she mixed the dough for biscuits, were becoming calloused and hard. Even Ben seemed to think only of his stomach. Perhaps rationing was to blame for that. He had followed her into the kitchen and was poking into the refrigerator.
"Um," he said, licking his finger.
Lucy rescued the vanilla pudding and frowned reprovingly. "Honestly, Ben, you don't let me get in the door before you start yelling for something to eat."
Ben cupped her chin in his palms and studied her flushed features. "Have a good time downtown?"
She pulled her face indignantly away. "I just wish you'd do the shopping, Ben Henderson. You seem to think Christmas is fun."
"Well, isn't it?" challenged Ben with a teasing grin.
Feeling the way she did, Lucy wasn't sure. "Fun for children," she admitted reluctantly. She had just finished her housecleaning. Remembering all the woodwork she had scrubbed, all the curtains she had hung, her wrongs rose within her. "I have to see to everything," she complained. "Link wanted something for the school tree. I had to go to three stores. Miriam is disappointed in her new dress."
Ben sat on the stepladder stool and pushed his feet through the rungs. There was a look in his eyes. "I suppose it isn't like Sally's," he said.
Lucy had to smile. But the worried light remained in the depths of her eyes. "I'm sure I don't know how I'm going to find the time to make it. Tomorrow, I'm going to get out the decorations."
"Oh, let 'em go," said Ben carelessly, as he pushed open the door and disappeared into the living room. "Or let Link put them up."
Lucy poured milk into a pitcher with angry hands. That seemed to be her family's cry, nowadays. Let someone else do it. If you wanted things done right, you must do them yourself. Couldn't Ben understand that it was important how the house looked when Iris came?
She found a cloth and went into the hall to wipe up the snow. Bending made her hip ache again, and she looked tired as she carried the plates into the dining room.
Link had come in and was lying in the middle of the floor where she had to step around him, looking at the funnies in the newspaper. He had shed his cap by tossing it over a candlestick on the buffet. The sleeves of his jacket were hooked across the back of a dining room chair.
"Link," said Lucy sharply, "I thought I asked you to clean the walks."
Link looked lazily out of the darkening windows. A few thistlelight snowflakes were touching the glass. "No sense cleaning walks when it's going to snow," he said, and turned back to his paper.
Lucy bit her lip as she carried his jacket and cap to the hall closet. That seemed to be Link's philosophy of life. No sense watering the lawn when it was going to rain. No sense raking leaves when it was going to blow. Suddenly, in Lucy's mind, Link seemed very selfish and very lazy.
He was chuckling at Flip Corkin when Lucy came back into the room. "Whee!" he chortled, pointing to a falling, flaming plane. "That's just what those enemy bombers and planes deserve."
Not even Christmas, thought Lucy wearily, could make her son's thoughts of peace, good-will toward men.
In the middle of dessert Link stopped eating long enough to say: "Oh, Maw, did you get the tree?"
Lucy appealed to Ben. "You were to attend to that."
Ben flushed. "I forgot," he confessed, then added placatingly: "I'll get it tomorrow. There's still plenty of time."
Plenty of time, agreed Lucy silently, if they were to be content with a spindling little thing that they'd be ashamed of. Pictures of the sort of trees Iris had always been used to rose before her eyes and made her voice sharp. "Please see to it first thing in the morning."
Link seemed to sense her exasperation, and he looked up and grinned. "Gee, Maw! Any ole tree's all right if it's got a star at the top."
"I want a nice one," said Miriam insistently. "You should see the one Sally's got. It must be nine feet tall."
Lucy winced, and Ben winked at her.
Leona yawned as she left the table. "What difference does it make?" she asked rather bitterly. "We're all adults, or aren't we?"
As Lucy carried the dishes into the kitchen, Leona's words rang in her ears. Leona had meant: "What difference does anything make, any more?" Lucy's heart ached for her daughter. She wanted to see her happy and gay again.
Ben came into the kitchen as she was hanging up her dishtowel. He had his overcoat over his arm and he stopped in surprised chagrin. "I thought Miriam was helping you."
Lucy hid her face as she put away the cups. "She and Sally went to the movies," she said.
Ben frowned, started to speak, then slipped his arms into his coat sleeves. He didn't look at her. "I'd have helped if I'd known," he told her.
Lucy kissed the end of his nose as she buttoned his coat. When she walked with him to the door, her lips were smiling. "It doesn't matter, Ben," she said sincerely. "I like to do it."
She really did. Perhaps that was why the girls were such bad housekeepers. Miriam and Leona had a way of leaving odds and ends undone. Lucy liked to have a neat kitchen. Her eyes twinkled. "I can't imagine what sort of Christmas we'd have if I let the girls attend to it."
Now she was really laughing and she added teasingly: "And I shudder to think of the gift you'd choose for Ada."
She didn't know there was anything prophetic in her words. Even when she awoke in the night with the pain in her hip feeling like hot wires inside, she thought she would be all right in the morning. But when she tried to get up, she had to fall back against the pillow with a moan.
Ben, white-lipped and worried, insisted on knowing what the doctor had said. "Just rest and the heating pad," confessed Lucy, "with vitamin B thrown in."
She held her breath while the pain came. And went, and then she wailed: "Oh, Ben, I can't stay in bed. There're a million things to do."
Ben's voice was gruff. "You've done too much already. Just relax, and I'll send up a tray."
She might not have been quite so acquiescent if her pain hadn't been so severe.
Link came bearing the tray proudly, scraped toast, thickly sliced orange, lukewarm cocoa. She smiled wanly. "I hope this won't spoil your Christmas," she said.
"It won't," said Link cheerfully.
Long after he had gone, Lucy stared at the door. She had been right. Link was hard and callous. Christmas meant very little to him.
Leona put her head in the doorway as she rushed off to catch her bus. "I'll get the turkey and you can tell me how to make the dressing."
She fumbled in her purse for her lipstick and didn't look at her mother as she rouged her lips with the aid of her compact mirror. "Who knows? Dave may fall for my cooking. If I give him a bang-up meal, he won't think I'm such a debit."
Lucy's mouth dropped in amazement. Certainly neither Dave nor any other man would ever fall for Leona's cooking. How many times had she tried to impress her daughter with the fact that keeping house was an art? Now that it was too late, Leona was planning on bowling Dave over with an elaborate Christmas dinner. Lucy's head ached just contemplating it.
Miriam dropped into her mother's bedroom on her way to school. She had the unwanted silk in her hands and she sat on the bed. "I just ran over and showed it to Sally. She says it won't be so terrible if I make it by her pattern. I'm going to take it to school and get Miss Robbins to help me cut it out."
Lucy had a sort of lost feeling in the pit of her stomach. Miriam was taking sewing at school, but her seams were always so crooked!
At lunch time, Ben hurried home from the office to fix the furnace and get her lunch. But he burned the leftover soup and Lucy had to compromise on bread and milk. That night at dinner there was a rumpled napkin on her tray and one of her best cups from the china cabinet in the dining room. It was Miriam who let it slip that they had run out of kitchen china. But later, Link came to report that Dave had done K. P. Duty. He "had swung a mean dishtowel," and according to Link, everything was "under control."
"Pop bought the tree and let me help pick out Ada's present," said Link as he said goodnight.
Lucy felt relieved when the house settled down to sleep. Things weren't really going as bad as she had imagined they would. Perhaps she'd be up tomorrow.
But Hal arrived in the middle of the argument she was having with Ben about it, and vetoed her suggestion. "I'm the doctor," he said, kissing her fondly, and he added as he drew Iris into the room: "And this is the doctor's wife."
Lucy put out her arms. She had meant to kiss her new daughter-in-law, but the hand that touched her fingers was very cool. There was a wary formality in the girl's tone. "I'm so sorry you're ill, Mrs. Henderson," said Iris politely, and her eyes went around the room.
Lucy was painfully conscious of the soiled towel in the middle of her dressing table, of the empty tray on the window seat. She felt sure that the downstairs part of the house was in similar disarray. Iris' first impression of the Henderson menage hadn't been exactly what Lucy had desired; but she tried to comfort herself with a happy thought. "I'll be up in the morning. Then I'll tidy things up and use the nicest silver. Perhaps she'll think better of us."
But in the morning her pain was worse. The family declared they could manage. "Iris can wash the dishes," said Hal magnanimously, and Lucy saw the look that came into the girl's pretty face. Iris wasn't used to doing dishes.
"Miriam can do them when she gets home from school," said Lucy, but Miriam protested. "I've got to stay and finish my dress. Iris can do them." She looked at her brilliant nails. "Besides, I don't want to chip my polish."
Lucy glanced at the exquisite brilliance of Iris' shining nails. She wanted to shake her daughter; but later she heard Iris and Hal in the kitchen. There was a clatter of dishes and the sound of voices. Once when the door swung open, she heard Iris laugh. She didn't sound too terribly unhappy. But, of course, she had Hal, and that, decided Lucy with mother-like devotion, was enough to make any girl laugh like that!
When the family came home the evening passed with a great deal of commotion. The girls kept running in to ask where things were. Lucy's mind was a treadmill of doubt. When Link shoved his rumpled head in at the door, she wanted to ask questions herself. But he just grinned widely, and said: "Gee, Maw, we trimmed the tree. It's a beaut!"
Lucy was pleased. So Ben had found a nice one. But trimming it always made such a mess. When Ben came up, she asked what he had done with the boxes.
"I just shoved 'em behind the divan," he replied and seemed to consider himself so clever that Lucy hadn't the heart to scold.
Just as she was dropping off to sleep she remembered that Ben hadn't told her what he had bought for Ada. She asked him what it was, leaning up on her elbow to look across at the other bed. He mumbled sleepily and turned over. It didn't matter. A false complacency lulled her to rest.
Christmas morning dawned as all Christmas mornings should dawn, clear, cold and bright, with a tiny pattern of frost fingers against the windows where the furnace heat hadn't reached. The entire family trooped into Lucy's bedroom and watched her undo her packages. She felt a very gay invalid in a blue, quilted robe, satin mules, and a dash of Link's rather highly scented perfume.
Later, Ben and Hal made a "chair" with their hands and carried her downstairs into the living room while the rest of them opened their presents. There was so much laughter and excitement that for a little while she didn't notice her surroundings. When she did, she suppressed a little gasp. Link had said the tree was a "beaut"; but Lucy saw that even the bright, new star on the topmost branch couldn't hide its thin, straggling formation. It was the worst they'd ever had!
As Ada untied a bit of red ribbon, Lucy held her breath for she realized what the present was that Ben had picked out. There was a shout of merriment as Ada held up a doll, a long-legged French affair with unreal blonde hair and taffeta ruffles. Link explained: "It's to put in the middle of your bed."
Ada thanked Ben gravely, but her cheeks were flushed. Lucy couldn't help thinking it was a ridiculous gift for an old maid.
When dinner was ready, Leona declared that everyone must help carry in the food. Dave triumphantly bore the turkey in on the platter and Lucy thanked her lucky stars for an automatic gas oven. Ben slid her to the table in a big chair so that she would not have to walk. When grace had been said, the plates were quickly filled.
Lucy thought the turkey was tough, the gravy lumpy, and that the dressing had too much onion in it. But as she watched them eat, she saw that they didn't seem to notice. Dave couldn't get over the fact that Leona had prepared this magic feast with her own small hands, and Lucy didn't remind him of the numerous trips Leona had made to her couch to inquire how to cook the meal.
When Leona cleared away the plates, Dave helped her, and when they came from the kitchen with the dessert, Leona's eyes were shining. When she leaned over to fill her mother's glass, she whispered in her ear: "It turned the trick, darling. He's willing to take a chance. Says he doesn't want to lose such a good cook."
Lucy pressed her daughter's fingers tightly. There were tears in her eyes as she saw Leona's face. The bitterness had fled, only laughter lurked in her smile.
"I speak to wash the dishes," said Iris loudly when they had finished.
Lucy was startled and her eyes sought her daughter-in-law's hands. The brilliant nail polish was chipped and worn, but Iris didn't seem to care. While the entire party trooped into the kitchen to help, Lucy lay back on the pillows of her divan and looked about her house.
The boxes which Ben had shoved behind the divan were beginning to overflow. Evidently, everyone with an unwanted box had thought of the same thing. The wreaths at the windows hung rather lopsidedly on their red ribbon bows. Tin-foil icicles dripped onto the floor under the tree. The evergreens over the fireplace were threatening to tumble down.
Lucy couldn't understand it. Couldn't anyone else see that the living room carpet was littered with bits of string and hundreds of pine needles from the dried-up tree? Couldn't any of them see that nothing was just exactly right?
Link came into the room, his face smeared with chocolate, and began to tinker with the lights. "I gotta put in a new globe," he told his mother as he hurried away.
Ada came through the living room with a pile of plates for the china cabinet. As she passed her French doll, she put out her hand and touched the pale-green taffeta ruffles. Lucy saw her eyes. They were no longer faded and dull. The doll had brought back her youth.
The room was drowsily quiet when Iris came in. Lucy wasn't sure she was beside her until she lifted her lashes and saw her smiling. There was a sort of inner glow in the girl's face, and when Lucy patted the couch, Iris sat down.
"This is the nicest Christmas I've ever known," she said wistfully, and Lucy saw that the diamond ring she wore was dull with grease and soap.
Suddenly she touched Lucy's hand. "Mrs. Henderson," she began, and changed it to: "Mother, Hal and I want you to be the first to know. We're having a baby in July."
For a moment Lucy didn't move. She wanted to be sure she heard the simple words. Then her fingers tightened about the girl's hand and she drew her close for a happy kiss. "I'll have to tell Ben," she whispered wonderingly.
But Ben and Hal were coming into the room, their arms about each other's shoulders. Iris' eyes twinkled mischievously. "I don't think you'll have to," she said, and went into Ben's opened arms.
Link came back with the globe he had been hunting. It was a moment before he got it screwed in. The others came out of the kitchen and waited breathlessly. Suddenly the tree was a blaze of light. The star at the top gleamed benevolently. Link's voice was filled with glee. "I told you, Maw. A tree's swell when it's got a star at the top!"
Everybody laughed gently, and admired the display. Leona's hand was linked with Dave's brown one, and there was joy in her eyes. Hal had his arm about his wife's slim waist and there was no fear for the future in either of their faces. Miriam wore her crooked-seamed dress with an arrogant air. When she moved, the skirt flared out and she watched it happily. "It's a lot prettier than Sally's," she admitted with a smile.
Ben stood thoughtfully stroking his chin. "I hope it's a boy," he said out of his dreams, and no one laughed.
Deep in her soul Lucy knew peace. "Boy, or girl," she said teasingly, "it will be thrilling to be a grandmother."
She saw very clearly, now, that Link had been right. Christmas is always wonderful if you look at the star! Thoughts on the Prophet Joseph Smith (Continued from page 732) trees be planted and that all houses should be solidly built. Of the charter, which was to govern this city, he wrote: "The City Charter of Nauvoo is of my own plan and device. I concocted it for the salvation of the Church, and on principles so broad, that every honest man might dwell secure under its protective influence without distinction of sect or party." He believed in home manufacture and under his encouragement many manufactories were established, a few are here mentioned: namely, a cabinet manufactory, a rope manufactory, a bakery, a _ bookstore, and bindery, a comb manufactory, a boot and shoe shop, a carpenter and joiner's shop, a library, a blacksmith shop, a brick kiln, a dentist parlor, a spinning wheel manufactory, a millinery and dressmaking shop, and a watch and clockmaker's shop. In an educational way he was instrumental in having established,. The School of the Prophets, The University of Nauvoo, The Nauvoo Seminary, an Institute, common schools and the Nauvoo Manufacturing and Agricultural Society. This man was truly a Prophet of the Living God. The 114th Semi-annual Conference (Continued from page 735) published proceedings will be made widely available to the members of the Church. The presence of the women of the Church was sincerely missed. That which we do without their full participation is always lacking in completeness. If the messages of the 114th Semiannual conference were heeded by the people of the world, or any substantial part of them, there would quickly be restored those conditions of peace and freedom which would enable us to return to some cherished things, and to realize many blessings yet greater than any we have known Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DECEMBER! 'The month commemorating the birth of the Prince of Peace, finds the sad paradox of a world still at war! The statement of George Lansbury, Britain's pre-war pacifist, is worth pondering that whenever the will to peace becomes mightier than the will to war, we shall have peace. This will is a qualitative, not quantitative, matter. Six years ago far more people desired peace than war; but the advocates of violence prevailed. Women want peace. 'They now have more understanding of world conditions than ever before, and more influence. Their will to peace must be so intense that no effort will be too costly, no price, within the realm of honor, too great to pay for it. SEVERAL women writers of Utah have won national recognition this year. Holt and Co. Have just published Peter's Story Goes to Press by Mrs. Olive Woolley Burt, a twenty-thousand-word story for juveniles. Her illustrated booklet-poem, God Gave Me Eyes, has sold more than 17,000 copies. 'Two of her forthcoming books are written about silver and wool. Mrs. R. Easton Walker, poet, who writes under her maiden name of Courtney E. Cottam, received, in July, the Anne Hamilton Honorable Mention Award, from the Writer Magazine. In the next quarterly issue of the magazine, Poetic Out look, three of her poems will be featured with an article regarding her work. AN interesting writers' enterprise is the Huckleberry Mountain Artists Colony located at Hendersonville, North Carolina, and conducted by Evelyn Haynes. Classes are offered for writers of short stories, articles, poems, art songs, plays or radio scripts. An annual prize is given in each field. This year, for the first time, the five judges were unanimous in awarding first place in the poetry contest to Mrs. Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Unforgetting Roots." This poem was one of 1,500 entries. She received a $10.00 award and spent a delightful week at the camp as a guest of honor. Mrs. Burt, Courtney Cottam, and Mrs. Wangsgaard are all contributors to TheISS Mildred Steelman of Salt Lake City won seventeenth place in the hundred prizes offered by the Writer Magazine for the best short-short stories. She was awarded $75.00 worth of books of her own choosing. ME:. Dorothy Handley of Salt Lake City has published stories in the Saturday Evening Post, Family Circle, Romantic Stories, and in the Woman's Home Companion. One was reprinted in England. Page 745 EDITORIAL VOL. 30 DECEMBER 1943 NO. 12 The Blessed Refrain THERE seems to be a spirit of love in the very air one breathes at Christmas timea feeling of friendliness, a desire to help others, and a reaching out to those less fortunate. This spirit of true love pervades the air of the Christmas scene much as did the voices of the multitude of heavenly hosts nearly 2000 years ago who, praising God, said: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." To many of the inhabitants of the earth, this year, this message may sound like hollow mockery. Even in this country there will be few families whose circle will not be smaller, lacking the dear presence of some members who may be in grave danger in far-off lands under strange skies, or who may have gone ahead to that eternal land toward which we are all traveling. But to all saints who bear a love of Christ in their hearts and the knowledge that He is the Redeemer of the world, the first fruits of the resurrection, this heavenly enunciation should have added significance. Now especially should one render "Glory to God in the highest," and gratefully echo the refrain, "and on earth peace, good will toward men." One must give "glory to God" as much as one in his humble way may"For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life." As a result of this greatest Page 746 gift, as a result of the great sacrifice, there may come to all the inhabitants of the earth that peace which the heavenly hosts proclaimed following the angel's announcement of Christ's birth; the peace of the soul which comes from a knowledge of God's eternal plan and a consciousness that one is living in accordance with His plan; the peace which pervades the soul within and is in nowise dependent upon conditions without; the peace to be found in bringing one's own desires and hopes into harmony with the will of the Father and acknowledging "the Lord knows best"; the peace that comes from a ready acceptance of conditions as they affect one from day to day and a willing submission to them; the peace that comes from showing forth love toward one's fellow man even to the extent shown by so many loved ones in this day who stand ready to lay down their lives for their friends; the peace to be found at all times and in all dispensations in the Gospel of Jesus Christ'"The peace of God which passeth all understanding." With this peace in one's heart, of necessity one has good will toward men. Then let not the anxieties, the sorrows of this day obliterate the joy to be found in a true observance of this Christmas and an appreciation of the blessed refrain: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men."M. C. S. - Women and the Church Canning Prog DURING the remarks made by President Clark at the opening session of the 114th semi-annual general conference, he estimated that fifty million cans of food had been preserved by members of the Church in 1943 for family and welfare use. He said:, For this tremendous achievement, the greatest that has come from a_ unified Church effort in a generation, the most credit and gratitude is due to the sisters of the Church who have done all the home canning as well as the bulk of the canning for the Welfare Program and the ward groups. We ask these sisters to receive the heartfelt thanks and congratulations of the whole body of the Church. As the remarks of President Clark were heard by the women members of the Church who were privileged to listen to the conference broadcast, they must have recalled long hours spent in hard work at a welfare cannery or over a hot stove on a summer's day when they had heeded the advice of Church leaders and preserved food for the coming winter. A feeling of satisfaction must also have come to these listeners as they fam visualized the rows of fruit and vegetables preserved for their families' use. Many of the groups who banded together to go to canneries consisted of members of ward and branch Relief Societies and many pressure cookers owned by Relief Societies were utilized by different ward groups. The General Board extends appreciation for the faithfulness and hard work performed by Relief Society members and the women of the Church in general who did so much to make this stupendous canning program a reality. A mother could ask for no greater blessing than to know that her children will not hunger during the coming winter, and to those women who not only provided for their own needs but for others as well, additional blessings will be visited upon them. An editorial in the Deseret News, October 4, 1943 "Women of the Church, We Pay a Tribute" honored the women for the part they are playing today both in the Church and nation. M.C.S.  ACROSS THE PLAINS OF BETHANY Bertha A. Kleinman Across the plains of Bethany, Across the waves of Galilee, Hark, list, the angels sing! Beyond the proud Jerusalem, From Bethel to Capernaum, List to the echoes ring! Angelic hosts from out the sky, Bring adoration from on high, To hail the new-born King. Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Peace, peace on earth, good will to men, Hail, gloria, and sing! Page 747 Care of the Christmas Gift Plant Hazel D. Moyle, Deseret News Garden Editor CHRISTMAS will be made more C joyous and happy for countless sweethearts, wives, and mothers by the gift of some lovely, living plant, blooming in cultivated perfection. Few gifts carry so eloquent a message of love and courage, or say so well that old, old greeting of "Merry, Merry Christmas," of "Peace on Earth." The Christmas plant has now become one of the most popular and treasured of gifts; never are flowers more appreciated than during this loved season when all our thoughts turn to home and loved ones. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" sings the poet, but alas! All too often our pleasure upon receiving such a plant is marred by the sad disappointment of seeing our lovely plant begin to droop and fade, often within a few hours after it is received. Why is it so difficult to keep these beautiful specimens of the professional florist's skill happy and contented in the changed environment of the modern living room? Why must the lovely, flaming poinsettia droop its great handsome leaves and vivid flower in such a discouraging manner? What makes the exquisite cyclamen, with its silken blooms poised like butterflies ready for flight, suddenly wither and become but a ruined shadow of its former glory; and why does that glamorous plant, the azalea, refuse to continue its thrilling show of fluted-petaled flowers and even discard its beautiful glossy foliage? 'These are the Page 748 questions that have puzzled countless recipients of the Christmas gift plant. We seldom stop to consider that the flowering plant has been living in the cool, moist air of the modern greenhouse, and that the change from this humid atmosphere to the hot, dry heat of the modern living room is a severe shock. Here are a few rules for the care of different gift plants. While no two are exactly alike in their requirements, one safe rule can be applied to all: namelydo not place your plant near a hot radiator nor in a too hot or heavily curtained room. Few greenhouse plants can endure the temperatures that we human be- - ings find so comfortable. Drafts, too, are extremely detrimental, and many a well-meaning flower lover will stand a beautiful flowering plant in a draft-swept hallway, thinking that it is just the right place for the plant's well-being, when really it supplies the most harmful conditions. This is especially true of the poinsettia, perhaps the most popular of all Christmas plants. Place your poinsettia in some warm, sunny, draft-free window, after first standing it in a pan of water until moisture shows on the surface of the soil. It should have a warm place which does not go below 70 degrees even at night. A lack of sun, chilling, and too much or too little water are the reasons why the flowers so often droop and fade. Water the plant thoroughly, using luke-warm water, CARE OF THE CHRISTMAS GIFT PLANT then wait until it begins to dry out slightly on the surface before again _ applying a generous drink. When the poinsettia begins to droop, after its flowers are all over, its resting time has come. Give it less and less water and remove it to some cool spot, the basement is ideal, where it can be given just enough occasional watering to keep the roots alive. When spring comes, cut your plant back to four inches and repot, using fresh garden loam, sand, and leaf mold or mountain soil of equal parts. Sink the pot outside in some spot where it can receive regular watering and soon it will begin to grow again. Be sure to bring the plant indoors before cold weather, and it will bloom again in time for the holiday season. HE azalea is becoming better known each year, and now rivals the poinsettia in popularity. This exquisite plant can now be purchased in sizes all the way from a small plant in a five-inch pot to the great specimen tree producing hundreds of lovely blooms. Should you be the fortunate recipient of one of these gorgeous flowering plants, do find a really cool spot for it. A sun parlor with indirect heat is ideal, but lacking this, place it in a cool window facing east or north. The azalea demands copious watering, twice each day not being too much. Some successful house-plant growers even keep the pot in a pail of water for a while each day. The roots of this plant are formed in a hard mat, and often the home gardener fails to give enough moisture to penetrate this hard mass. The foliage and stems of the plant should also 749 be sprayed or sprinkled often. Continue to give constant and plenty of moisture after the flowering period is over and remove the faded buds to prevent the seeds from maturing. If your plant begins to fade or look sick, give it a dose of the acid content which it needsone-half teaspoonful of aluminum sulphate in a quart of water, and apply gradually. When good weather arrives, the azalea should be put outside, sinking the pot in a hole and filling up with peat moss which is sold by nurserymen and florists. Water the plant with one-half teaspoonful of any good commercial fertilizer in a quart of water every two or three weeks, and when fall comes, remove the plant to the house, and it will again put out its lovely crop of bloom. Some local house-plant fans keep azalea plants flowering year after year with such treatment.
The cyclamen is another favorite plant. This grows from a central corm or bulb, much like a gladiolus, and it, too, needs a great deal of moisture, but beware of allowing water to reach the central bulb from which the delicate fleshy stems grow. The best method of watering the cyclamen is to stand the pot in a shallow bucket of warm water for an hour, then drain the water off before placing the plant back on the saucer on which it stands. Never, never, allow water to stand in the saucer under the plant, and if the leaves or stems wither, jerk them sharply away from the bulb before they begin to rot, for this may spread to the bulb itself. Do not expect to keep the cyclamen happy in your living room, but place it in some really cool, light window, which faces east so as to avoid full sun. If you can keep the cyclamen cool enough, it will go on opening its abundant supply of buds for weeks, and may even develop new ones.
We are all familiar with the cheery little Jerusalem cherry plant with its gay Christmas colors of red and green, but sad to tell, this dainty plant usually presents problems to keep it from dropping all its leaves soon after it comes into our overheated homes, for this plant considers 50 degrees a comfortable temperature in which to display its bright berries. If you receive this plant for Christmas, place it at once in your coldest north window, and spray and sprinkle the leaves several times each day to supply the moisture which it craves. The pepper plant with its oblong berries that are found in all stages of growth and coloring, endures a warm room much better than does the Jerusalem cherry, but it, too, needs the same constant care of watering and spraying. A daily bath and plenty of moisture it must have in order to be happy.
One other plant is grown extensively in local nurseries for Christmas time, the improved begonia semperflorens. Grandmother grew this plant in her kitchen window, but how the modern plant wizards have glamoured it and made it sparkle! The plants we enjoy today are a dazzling mound of vivid color with the flowers almost obliterating the foliage. If you can find just the right conditions for this plant, it will go on blossoming for you all winter, and you can take cuttings from it for planting out in your garden in the spring where they will continue their amazing flowering week after week. Place the plant, during the summer, in your coolest window which has sun, but guard against allowing the hot midday sun to strike it through the glass. This plant, too, needs plenty of moisture, but should not be kept sopping wet, just constantly moist.
To keep these flowering plants in bloom is no easy task, as you can see, but it is well worth taking the time to give each plant somewhat the conditions it needs, for nothing gives a home such a gay and happy note as do a few blossoming flowers, especially when ice and snow are in command on the other side of the window pane.