2 Christmas Memories Luacine Savage Clark CHRISTMAS! What a flood of C memories this word recalls. It carries me back to childhood pioneer days, to a land of happiness —a land where care and sorrow were unknown and where our every dream came true. I can never forget the excitement we felt when the long-looked-for holiday season began: lessons and school were forgotten; our days were spent stringing popcorn and bright red cranberries to hang. On the tree, and in helping to seed raisins for the plum puddings and cakes. How often we children would go to the big kitchen with its polished Charter Oak stove just to smell the delicious odors that filled the air whenever the oven door was opened. How joyful we all were when the stately Christmas tree with its graceful, fragrant boughs was finally set up in the parlor, all ready to be adorned with our homemade articles, the glittering ornaments we bought, and, as a final touch, the candy dogs, cats, and gumdrop slippers that we hung so temptingly from the tips of the branches. How we dreaded to be sent to bed, to lose sight of all of this splendor. We all declared that we could never sleep, but by the time we had hung our stockings on the string stretched across the wall back of the cheerful Lady Franklin stove, and had said our good nights, we were resigned to climb the stairs to give old Santa a chance to do his yearly job. I can still feel the icy coldness of those bedrooms; no time was lost in undressing to nestle between the woolen sheets. No one had to be called on Christmas morning. Long before daylight my brothers had peeped over the banister, hoping the fires would be made, and wondering if the guns they had asked for were standing near their stockings. 'There was an unwritten law in our family that no stocking could be opened until all were dressed, combed, and had washed in our old copper bowl that stood in the warm kitchen; and this morning I am sure there was no need for the usual "make haste" from our patient mother. When the entire family, including the boy who milked the cow, and the dear German woman who helped with the sewing and housework, had eaten their breakfasts, we were all ushered at last into the parlor, where a cheerful fire greeted us. Page 803 the flames of which were reflected in the shiny balls hanging on the gorgeous tree. The chairs were always arranged in a row around the big room, each one piled high with interesting looking packages, which, if times were good, would overflow onto the floor. The little ones always stood in breathless awe at this bounteous array. Naturally we were very impatient to begin opening our gifts, but again order had to be maintained. One of us would be sent to the cellar for the clothes basket, to hold all the strings and papers. At last, the fun began! Grandpa, being the oldest, opened his gifts first. It took some time before our turn came, but by ten o'clock each bumpy stocking was empty, each gift opened and duly praised. Of course, our dolls received the most attention because of broken heads or other calamities that had befallen our last year's "family." By ten o'clock we were ready for the next part of the program. We would all join hands in a circle around the tree and sing to the tune of the "Mulberry Bush": Here we go round the Christmas tree, Here we go round the Christmas tree, Here we go round the Christmas tree, At ten o'clock in the morning. This was always followed by: Merry, merry Christmas everywhere, Cheerfully it ringeth through the air. Christmas bells, Christmas trees, Christmas odors on the breeze. Merry, merry Christmas everywhere, Cheerfully it ringeth through the air. Why should we so gratefully sing with joyous mirth— See the Son of Righteousness Beams upon the earth. At this point three shouts of "hurrah" would go up, to end the ceremony. Now came the only sorrow to our childish hearts: Father and Mother would come in carrying baskets filled with fruit, cake, and other gifts which we girls were expected to take to the homes of the old people in the ward. It seemed terrible to have to leave our treasured toys and beautiful wax dolls in their gorgeous, ruffled gowns, to carry baskets through the snow. Even though we knew smiles of gratitude would light up those wrinkled, aged faces, this did not in any way compensate for the great sacrifice we thought we were making on Christmas Day. In our anxiety to return home, we scarcely noticed the happy children coasting down the hills on their bright new sleds, nearly all homemade, nor did we hear the merry jingling of the sleighbells as the horses trotted over the snow pulling sleighs full of happy people on their way to spend the day with relatives or friends. Added to the jingling of the bells, the air was filled with the unusual music of the bagpipes as Brother Dunbar — went from house to house to serenade his friends each Christmas morning. I am sure his music carried his Scotch friends back to Bonnie Scotland, and tears filled their eyes as they listened; but to our ears, the tooting of the horns found in our stockings was much more pleasing. PERHAPS the most exciting event of the day came at two o'clock when we were all seated around the long dining table, and saw the huge 

 —DECEMBER, 1941

 CHRISTMAS MEMORIES WINTER SURROUNDS THE CHARLES R. SAVAGE HOME turkey carried in to be carved by my father. Nothing was forgotten, from the dressing to the round, fat plum pudding with the delicious sauce. On this day we were allowed to eat to our heart's content. Even the turkey, who had been stuffing himself in the barnyard for this great event, must have felt satisfied also, for every part of his anatomy was duly appreciated. At the end of the feast we all helped to clear the tables, so we could play games or read the coveted books, usually sore of Louisa May Alcott's, found among our gifts. 'The older members of the family usually entertained friends who called; part of our family tradition was that none of us should leave home, only to deliver the baskets, on Christmas Day. This was faithfully kept, for none of us cared to wander from our comfortable, old adobe home. I suppose to every child Christmas Day is never long enough. No matter how tired we were we were always saddened when bed time came and Grandpa led the procession "up the wooden hill" as he called the stairs. But before this was done, all made the circle again around the tree and sang once more. This, with our family _ prayers, crowned the happiest day of the year, and I feel sure that each of us offered a silent prayer that no link in our family chain would be broken before another Christmas. Thus the years rolled on all too quickly, but even to a child shadows must come. One Christmas night at the close of our song, Grandpa, who so cheerfully had shared in all of our childish joys and sorrows, said, "My dears, this is the last time I shall join in your Christmas song." 806 Grandpa's words proved all too true. Since that time our circle has narrowed, until today but few are left to cherish the hallowed memories of those happy bygone days. A new generation has dawned. Inside the same house the stately Christmas tree with its fragrant boughs stands in the same spot as of yore, but the strings of popcorn and the red berries which brought so much joy to us are gone. Gone, too, are the many colored wax candles which used to light up our smiling faces. Gone is the old Franklin stove that gave us warmth and cheer for so many years. As I sit and gaze at the leaping flames in our grate fire, I am carried back to my childhood Christmases long ago. My heart and hands are reaching out to join hands once more in that circle and to sing again those almost forgotten songs arranged by my dear father. As I watch the tiny sparks fly 

 

 upward, I realize my childish love and eager desire for gifts have vanished with the sparks. But there remains with me the memory of the walks when I grudgingly took my basket and trudged through the deep snow to those humble cottages where lived those forgotten souls who were the last links in their family circles. I hear again their "God bless you, my dear, for the happiness you have brought to us this day." I feel to say, "God bless those who implanted in my heart this true spirit of Christmas." May our children and our children's children sing _again those songs of praise and thanksgiving, taught by the pioneers, for all the blessings we so bounteously receive. May we have the true spint of the pioneer Christmas which links us to that one of long ago, to the birthday of Him who gave us our Christmas Day.