Do THE FIRST. SNOW FALL The snow had begun in the gloaming And busily all the night Had been heaping the field and highway With a silence deep and white. Every pine and fir and hemlock Worte an ermine too dear for an earl, And the poorest twig on the elm tree Was ridged inch deep with pearl. —James Russell Lowell ar eS —— George D. Pyper General Superintendent, Latter-day Saint Sunday Schools AROL singing was known long C before the Reformation, and many definitions and _ stories have been written concerning its practice in ancient days in connection with the Norse yuletide sports. Lewis R. Benson, in The English Hymn, Its Development and Use, says it was not until the thirteenth century that it became popular in England, one wing cleaving close to the Nativity and the other to secular songs and yuletide sports. However, in our day carol singing is understood to have reference to a joyous song or ballad sung in celebration of the birth of Jesus. Many Christmas carols have been written. I have selected nine, which are often sung by the Latter-day Saints, for presentation here. The are treated alphabetically and not in the order of their dates of origin, their popularity, or their literary or musical rank. "Away in a Manger" One of the sweetest songs of the Nativity is "Away in a Manger," which was written by Martin Luther about the year 1530 for his little boy Hans, to be sung at a Christmas celebration. If Luther wrote the tune to be sung to his words, it has been forgotten. The one printed in the Deseret Sunday School Songs, composed by Charles H. Gabriel, a writer of gospel songs, is the one sung around the firesides and in the chapels. Martin Luther, the father of the Reformation, delved into poetry and music. He knew that the people desired to praise God, not in Latin chants, but in their own tongue. He wrote hymns for the congregation that were easily understood. Luther was born at Ejisleben, Saxony, November 10, 1483; he died February 18, 1546. "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains" The words and music of this popular song were written and composed by John Menzies MacFarlane. He was born October 11, 1833, at Sterling, near the city of Glasgow, Scotland. His father was a duke's coachman, and he drove the coach of the Queen of England whenever she visited Scotland. The family came to America as Latter-day Saint converts in 1851, settling in Cedar City, Utah, where Brother MacFarlane organized a choir. It was so successful that, at the request of President Erastus Snow, he moved to St. George, Utah, and directed the Church choir there. When the late Bishop Scanlon of the Catholic Church visited SilPage 807 ver City, a nearby flourishing mining camp in those days, he expressed a desire to hold mass in St. George. Latter-day Saint authorities consented, and Brother MacFarlane trained his Mormon choir for six weeks to sing the Latin Mass. This was given in the St. George Tabernacle, and it was at that time that Brother MacFarlane, seeing the need of Christmas carols, wrote "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains." Its simplicity and beauty caught the favor of musicians, and the song is now recognized and sung in many Christian churches besides our own. "Hark, the Herald Angels Sing" This is said by some writers to be one of the four greatest Chnstian hymns. Anglican Hymnology even gives it first place. It was written by Charles Wesley, the author of 6,500 hymns, acclaimed by some as the greatest hymnist of all ages. He and his brother John came to America early in 1830, and upon their return to England they laid the foundation for Methodism. Charles Wesley composed many hymns while riding along on his little pony. One day the horse fell, and Wesley sprained his ankle. The inspiration, he said, was lost for that day. Charles Wesley died March 29, 1878. The tune of this carol was composed by Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy in 1840. "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear" This beautiful hymn-poem was written by Reverend Edmund Hamilton Sears, who was born at Sandisfield, Massachusetts, April 6, 1810. He was a Harvard graduate and a Unitarian. Except for the first two stanzas, his song has been materially changed. He died January 4, 1876. The tune to this carol was composed by Richard Storrs Willis, son of the founder of Youth's Companion. Richard Storrs Willis was for many years the editor of the New York Musical World. "Joy to the World" This hymn, by Isaac Watts, was written in 1719. 'The tune is an adaptation from Handel's Messiah. It was called "Antioch" in our old Latter-day Saint hymn books. It was one of the ninety hymns compiled by Emma Smith in 1835, pursuant to a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1830. "Oh, Come All Ye Faithful' (Adeste Fideles) It is uncertain who wrote this hymn. It is accredited to the nineteenth century period and is of decided Catholic origin. By some it is said to have been written by Bonaventura, a Franciscan friar who after-. Wards became a cardinal. Ern tune is the one known as "The Portugese Hymn," by J. Reading. "O Little Town of Bethlehem" This lovely little carol was written by Phillips Brooks, an Episcopal bishop of Massachusetts. He was born in Boston, December 13, 1835, and died January 23, 1893. He was an eloquent pulpit orator and a man of deep religious life. 'The story of this carol is very sweet. While visiting the Holy Land, Mr. Brooks walked to the town of Bethlehem. He passed through the fields where the shepherds are said to have seen the star. He says that shepherds were still there, watching over their flocks just as their predecessors had done on that night when the angels came to tell them of Jesus' birth. On the The mod-. 

 —DECEMBER, 1941