THE CAROLS OF CHRISTMASTIDE 809 From Painting by J. Leo Fairbanks. O little town of Bethlehem, How still we see thee lie; Above the deep and dreamless sleep The silent stars go by. Way, too, he looked down on the little town of Bethlehem. Three years later when a Christmas song was needed for his Sunday School, he remembered that night and wrote "O, Little Town of Bethlehem." When it was finished, he asked Louis H. Redner, who was the organist, the superintendent, and also a teacher in his Sunday School, to compose a tune. Mr. Redner says that on Christmas eve he went to bed and was awakened by an "angel strain" ringing in his ears. He arose quickly, wrote the melody, and next morning finished the harmony. He claimed it was "a gift from heaven." It was sung in his Sunday School that Christmas morning. "Silent Night, Holy Night" The story of how this, the most loved of all the Christmas carols, came into being high up in the Australian Alps in a little town of Oberndorf is enchanting. It tells of how a young priest, Joseph Mohr, and the village schoolmaster, Franz Gruber, were talking over the need for a good Christmas song. In the church that evening Joseph Mohr was looking at the picture of the shepherds, and in a flash inspiration came; that night the words of the carol were framed that were to be heard around the world. Mohr went immediately to Franz Gruber and presented the song. Gruber was thrilled and composed the tune as we now have it. The two sang it together as a duet. It was first called "The Tyrolean Song," and was not printed until 1846. Thirty-six years later it was sung in Berlin before Emperor Frederick William IV. From then on it was given first place in Chnstmas programs. Little is known of the two writers, except that Mohr lived 1793-1848; Gruber, 1787-1863. "When Christ Was Born in Bethlehem" The tune of this stately Christmas carol was a prize winner in the Christmas Deseret News competition in 1900. It was written by our own Latter-day Saint composer, Ebenezer Beesley. It was printed in Deseret Sunday School Songs, No. 221, and is frequently sung at Christ-. Mas time. The poem was written by Henry W. Longfellow, America's great poet. On account of the universal love felt for Longfellow, his bust was placed in Westminster Abbey, where we hope it may -remain unmolested during these turbulent days.