Oscar A. Kirkham Leader Of Youth, Inspirer Of Man Marba C. Josephson Associate Editor, Improvement Era PRESIDENT OSCAR A. KIRKHAM OF THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY LONG a great hall, five selected delegates of the American Boy Scout delegation marched toward a great flight of stairs. When they reached the top of the first flight, the blare of trumpets sounded. They then marched up another flight, and again the trumpets sounded. Up another flight they went, and this time the blare of trumpets was a signal for the Queen of Holland to acknowledge their presence. In this group of Scout executives was Oscar A. Kirkham of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Yet, never has he boasted of that signal honor. Rather he has lived according to the famous lines of Kipling: If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with kings—nor lose the common touch; If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you; If all men count with you, but none too much; If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance run— Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it,... And these things are what Oscar A. Kirkham, whose appointment to the First Council of Seventy was announced October 6, 1941, has done during the twenty-eight years of Scout work which has carried him to almost every state in the Union and nearly every nation of Europe. In world jamborees, five of which he has attended in an official capacity as chief morale officer of the American contingents, he has made friendships with rulers and _ great men and women of the nations. World-famous doctors have been pleased to call this man friend and to give him tokens of their respect and affection. Many of these tokens have come asa direct result of the living of Latter-day Saint principles by Oscar A. Kirkham. Page 811 Lord Baden-Powell, founder and chief executive of Scouting in all the world, was a personal friend of President Kirkham, respecting him for his leadership of boys, a result of example as well as precept. President Kirkham has great power as a story teller. Concrete illustrations, effectively told, serve to drive home his teachings more permanently than would truisms or abstract statements. Often, boys tempted to neglect a duty are caught up by remembering the story President Kirkham tells of the young man who could "sleep in the storm" when the great winds blew, because he had _prepared, locking windows and doors that the cattle and horses, the hay and the grain would be safe. The dynamic presence of Oscar A. Kirkham in any meeting assures that meeting of being out of the ordinary. In fact, that is one of the secrets of the interest that he arouses among those who meet him. The greatest experiences come to those who do the unexpected. Bydoing different things, by venturing into unknown fields, President Kirkham feels that he has gained greatly. One occasion which shows this characteristic, as well as a genuine fellowship with mankind, presented itself at the world Jamboree when he took a lad into a nearby city for an emergency appendectomy.. The boy's official Scout guardian had not wished to make the trip, but Oscar said, "Here; let me take him." At the hospital he met one of the leading surgeons of Europe. Not only did the surgeon perform the operation, he performed it free of charge. And his heart warmed to Oscar A. Kirkham who would yolunteer to take the strange boy in his care to see that the operation should be performed. When the Scouts moved on, James E. West, Chief Scout Executive of the Boy Scouts of America, appointed a Mormon missionary to check on the boy's condition and report by wire daily. Moreover, Mr.. West often appointed Latter-day Saint missionaries to assist in the headquarters at the Jamborees. Nothing could be better evidence of President Kirkham's example as a Latterday Saint. Countless examples of this kind could be given to show how he has recognized the value in the unusual, in going off the beaten path for new experience. HE background of such a man is far too great to try to capture in dull print. He was born January 22, 1880, the fourth child in a family of eight children, to James and Martha Mercer Kirkham of Lehi, Utah. On January 1, 1888, he was baptized. After he completed his elementary and high school work, he graduated from Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, and went to Germany during the years 1900 to 1903 to study music. While he was studying, he also labored with the missionaries and was of such great help to them that, following | his return, he was given an honorable release by President Hugh J. Cannon, who was then presiding over the German Mission. Following his study, he was employed in the Church school system, first in Ricks College of Rexburg, Idaho, and after two years additional study in New York, in the Latterday Saint University at Salt Lake 

 —DECEMBER, 1941

 OSCAR A. KIRKHAM City, where for five years he was head of the music department. That music has formed an important part of the leadership of President Kirkham is evidenced through the truly remarkable resonance of his voice which resulted from his music study as well as in the number of songs that he has written and which are sung and loved, particularly throughout the Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church. With Tennyson, he cares not who writes the laws of a people so long as he can write their songs. Perhaps the most popular of his songs is titled "The Clarion Call," music for which was written by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist. Oscar A. Kirkham has filled' admirably many positions in the Church, beginning with his call to the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1913, with the introduction into the Church of the Boy Scout program. He was made field secretary of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. In 1920, he was set apart as executive secretary of the same organization, having held this position continuously from that time. Shortly after his entrance into Boy Scout activity he was honored by the Boy Scouts of America by being appointed Scout Executive of the Salt Lake Council. From that time to the present, he has been advanced in this movement until today his official title is Deputy Regional Executive, and his responsibilities include direction of all the western states and Hawaii. But the force of 813 his dynamic personality has reached much farther than this western region, for at five consecutive world Jamborees he has been in attendance as chief morale officer. At the last Jamboree, held in Haarlem, Holland, in 1937, President Kirkham was again the American contingent's director of activities, and under his direction the American Scouts presented "The Cavalcade of Scouting" before an estimated one hundred thousand spectators. Great as are the achievements of Oscar A. Kirkham, none is greater than that he is the father of eight children, all of whom have measured to the high ideals set by their father and by their mother, Ida Murdock Kirkham. The eight children are making their way in new fields—the two eldest daughters, Mrs. Carol Jarvis and Mrs. Grace Burbidge, as homemakers, after graduation from college; Rock, as first assistant Scout executive of the Washington, D. C., Council; Norman in the graduate school at Harvard University; Mark in his studies in architecture in Washington, D. C.; Ned as a private in the U. S. Army at Presidio; and the two youngest daughters, Kathryn and Jane, as students, the former in the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan, Utah, and the latter at East High School of Salt Lake City. As the opportunities for service extend further, Oscar A. Kirkham will measure and surpass his former achievements. He will add even greater honor to the Church which has so honored him by naming him one of the First Seven Presidents of the Council of Seventy.