NOTES TO THE FIELD 837 Special Feature Sor Mlagazine?1942 THE Magazine is pleased to announce as a special feature for the centennial year the publication in twelve monthly installments, beginning with the January, 1942, issue, the life story of President Amy Brown Lyman, entitled "In Retrospect." There are few women in the Church whose experiences have been so rich and so varied. Beginning life in a small Mormon community, her activities have taken her to the largest centers in the world. She has touched the lives ef individuals from all walks of life. She has been intimate with some of the world's prominent personalities, while many of the lowliest call her "friend." An ardent advocate of formal education, she has been a student and teacher in institutions of higher learning, yet she has a deep appreciation and a high regard for education that comes from self-effort and the experiences of life. Understanding, accepting, and living the Gospel, Mrs. Lyman is an example to young and old alike. Service to humanity has characterized her life, and her desire to serve intelligently has led her to acquaint herself with the most advanced methods of social service; in fact, she has been a pioneer in advancing the science of social service in the various communities in which she has lived. Mrs. Lyman has been intimately identified with Relief Society since her young womanhood. She has served as a member and officer of the General Board for a period of thirty-three years, and at the present time presides over approximately 100,000 women as general president of the Society. 'The story of her life is a recital of the dramatic story of Relief Society over a period of many years. Relief Society women are familiar with her charm as a public speaker and her gift as a writer. In publishing "In Retrospect" by President Amy Brown Lyman, the Magazine feels that it is presenting the life of a truly representative Latter-day Saint woman, that a wealth of valuable historical information is preserved, that the story of Relief Society and a number of the great personalities connected with it are revealed in a new and interesting light, and that it is bringing to its readers a dramatic and entertaining story. 'This feature is one of a number of outstanding features planned by the Magazine in recognition of the Relief Society centennial. Dates Sor Presentation Of March alessons IT is recommended by the General Board that the literature lesson scheduled for March, 1942, be presented on March 24, and that the social science lesson be presented on March 31.