Ora W Chipman and Hazel Brockbank Elected to Office RECENT announcement of inSocial Work has for many years been terest to Relief Society workers was the election of Ora W. Chipman as first vice-president of the Utah State Conference of Social Work for the coming year. Mrs. Chipman is supervisor of the Relief Society social welfare department in Salt Lake City. Formerly, she was on the staff of the Salt Lake County welfare department. She is a graduate of the School of Social Work, University of Southern California. Through training and experience Mrs. Chipman is well qualified to serve effectively in the position to which she has been named. The Utah State Conference of an effective organization in promoting individual, family and community welfare. The annual sessions of the conference were held this year in Salt Lake City. Recognition has also recently come to Miss Hazel Brockbank, member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board, in her election as president of the Utah Education Association. Miss Brockbank is at present supervisor at the Stewart Training School. She was formerly Utah State Director of Primary Education. She is the first woman to be elected to head the Utah educators. Women Advised Regarding Sewing Machine Repairmen THE Singer Sewing Machine Company warns Relief Society women of the activities of certain persons representing themselves as agents of the Sewing Machine Company. On the pretext of doing repair work, these persons take machines away and fail to return them. In all instances, women are advised to make sure that persons representing themselves as agents of any company are reliable authorized representatives of that company. 

 ?DECEMBER, 1941

 New Cantata By Gladys Rich and Minnie D. Warner NCLUDED in the list of suggestions for music appropriate for centennial programs, published in blue bulletin No. 21, issued November 12, 1941, is a cantata, Messengers of Mercy, which will be off the press in December, 1941. The music of this cantata is by Gladys Rich, words by Minnie D. Warner. It is prepared for women's three-part chorus, and its theme is based on the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith.. The cantata consists of three choruses?""The Call"; "The Message"; and "The Challenge." Each chorus can be used separately as a special number. Presentation time for the entire cantata is 12 minutes. Price?single copy, 50c, postpaid; quantity orders of 12 or more copies are available at the rate of 35c each, postpaid. Do not order from the General Board, but only from Mrs. Minnie D. Warner, Box 41, Ogden, Utah. THE MASTER HAND Ida R. Alldredge O winter, with your icy finger tips, Your chill voice sobbing on the weary hills While day with cold wet breath clings shivering And sheds her tears within thy mournful rills, How often hast thou laid thy hand upon my heart As storm clouds gathered on my horizon And filled my soul with fear and anguished doubt, Then drawn thy evening mantle round about. But lo, night's artistry a miracle hath wrought, For golden hands of sunrise draw apart The rain-fringed curtains, and behold 'tis day! It sends a warmth into my tired heart, For soon the earth is clothed in garments white; A peaceful calm, a hush pervades the scene; The trees are bowed as if in solemn prayer. I pause, for lo, I feel that God is there. For though the stately pine and blue fir each Wear pearls and ermine with such perfect ease, The poorest weed surpasses in resplendent garb With a million diamonds glistening. E'en these Need but thy breath to quicken them once more, To clothe them with simplicity and grace. Just so we need the touch of Master hand To beautify our lives and help us understand.