Music resembles poetry; in each Are nameless graces which no methods teach, And which a master-hand alone can reach. To err is human, to forgive divine. Other distinctions, briefer than those made by Hazlitt, have been made between wit and humor: "Wit is rapid; humor is slow. Wit is ' sharp; humor is gentle." Carolyn Wells thinks that the chief difference between wit and humor is that "wit is subjective, and humor objective. Wit is the invention of the mind of its creator; humor lies in the object that he observes. Wit originates in one's self; humor originates outside one's self. Wit is art; humor is nature." Professor Freud in his Wit and Its Relation to the Unconscious discusses two kinds of wit. The first he calls "harmless wit"?that which is enjoyed for its own sake, which manipulates words and thoughts for the mere pleasure of the manipulation, and serves no purpose beyond itself. An ambitious poet once sent Eugene Field a poem to read, 

 ?DECEMBER, 1941

 entitled, "Why Do I Live?" Field immediately sent a letter back to him, saying, "Because you sent your poem by mail." Another example of the same type of wit is found in Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes' reply to a friend who asked what one might do to insure long life. "Get an incurable disease," the doctor, known for his wit, replied, explaining later that people with incurable diseases take excellent care of themselves and so live a long time. The second, or "tendency wit," according to Freud, uses the same technique and produces similar pleasure, but it is hostile in purpose and is aimed at some person or persons. Some of the satires previously mentioned, particularly those of Pope and Swift, would be classed as "tendency wit," not humor. In the "Dunciad," Pope writes scathingly of people who pretend to be his friends, but who are friendly only for the advantages they themselves may gain from the friendship. He says: There are those who to my person pay their court: I cough like Horace, and though lean am short; Ammon's great son one should had too high, Such Ovid's nose, and, "Sir! You have an eye 2? Go on, obliging creatures! Make me see All, that disgraced, my betters met in me. Say for my comfort languishing in bed, "Just so immortal Maro held his head." And when I die, be sure you let me know Great Homer died three thousand years. Ago. (Horace and Ovid, referred to in this verse, are great Roman poets; Ammon's son is Alexander the Great; Maro is Virgil, the great Roman poet and author of the "Aeneid.