missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 6 SCHOOL THY FEELINGS, O MY BROTHER (Tuesday, March 24, 1942) School thy feelings, O my brother, Train thy warm, impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. School thy feelings, there is power In the cool, collected mind; Passion shatters reason's tower, Makes the clearest vision blind. School thy feelings; condemnation Never pass on friend or foe, Though the tide of accusation Like a flood of truth may flow. Hear defense before deciding And a ray of light may gleam, Showing thee what filth is hiding Underneath the shallow stream. Should affliction's acrid vial Burst o'er thy unsheltered head, School thy feelings to the trial, Half its bitterness hath fled. Art thou falsely, basely slandered? Does the world begin to frown? Gauge thy wrath by wisdom's standard, Keep thy rising anger down. Rest thyself on this assurance: Time's a friend of innocence. And the patient, calm endurance Wins respect and aids defense. Quiv'ring strings a breath can move, And the Gospel's sweet revealings, Tune them with the key of love. Hearts so sensitively moulded, Strongly fortified should be, Trained to firmness and enfolded In a calm tranquility. Wound not wilfully another; Conquer haste with reason's might; School thy feelings, sister, brother, Train them in the HARLES W. PENROSE, the author of this poem, was born in London, England, February 4, 1832. He had little schooling, but his naturally alert mind and retentive memory enabled him to pick up a good education from reading and observation. Fond of the Bible from his earliest years, he was thus prepared to receive the Restored Gospel by the time he was eighteen. It appealed to him as scriptural, reasonable, and substantial. This was the way he expressed it in later years. Almost as soon as he was baptized, he received the Priesthood and was sent ona mission. In Essex Cou he "raised up" several branches of the Church. His relatives and friends tried to persuade him not to have anything to do with the new Church, but he was guided by what he, not they, thought in the situation. He was the only one of his father's house to embrace Mormonpath of right. ?Charles W. Penrose. Ism. When he left home to fulfill this mission, he did not have a penny in his pocket. In the year 1861, after more than ten years of gratuitous and successful missionary service, he was released from his labors and emigrated to America. Meantime, he married. He wrote tracts and articles for the Millennial Star, as well as poems which were later set to music. In Utah, he made his first home in Farmington and did physical work, for which he was unfitted both by inclination and experience. Here he acquired a small home, teaching school during the winter. In 1864 he moved to Cache Valley, where he engaged in business. The following year, however, he was called on a mission to Great Britain, crossing the plains with a mule team for the second time. On his return home from this mission, he lived in Logan, Utah, becoming secretary to the cooperative institution there.