Home Gardening. 'There is seed-time and harvest time;" and now is the time to prepare for seed-time. It is very important that you have good seeds to plant. It is the poorest and cheapest economy in the world to plant poor seeds and expect good results in return. Therefore, let us say to you once more, buy the very best seeds on the market. If you have not saved seeds from your own gardens, write at once to some reputable house, get a catalogue and order from them, or some one whom you know to be reliable. By forming neighborhood clubs, you will be able to order a greater variety of larger seeds, and also secure better prices, because of buying in much quantities. In each town or village, there is usually more than one who have made a study of plant life, and can be of great assistance in recommending* to you the kinds of flowers and vegetables most suitable for your own climate and soil; also by referring to the bulletins sent you last year. We wish we could cause sufficient enthusiasm in each section of the country to have a public gathering called to consider the best methods to adopt in securing and utilizing all vacant property, in city or towns. Then, plan to have all this property cultivated, planting either vegetables or flowers, thus creating a spirit of work and pride with the town boys and girls; give them something to occupy their minds and teach them the value of home grown vegetables, and let them realize a very substantial income from a well-tended, cultivated plot of ground. They may be able to supply the town hotel with fresh onions, radishes, beets, carrots, lettuce, etc. Put in a few rows of parsley, early pepper cress, English chives, etc. All these things are hardy and can be planted early and will bring good prices. We often hear the question, "What can I do to earn a by few dollars?" We think we can help you to solve this question our suggestions in this lesson. We must not forget that flowers, too, play a very important part in our garden work to be planned by father and mother, the work executed by brother, and the products of their labor cooked and cared for by sister, thus household, securing the co-operative assistance from each member of the all interested in one common cause, and working for better conditions for the individual, home and town. There are hundreds of women bread-winners who earn money by growing vegetables and flowers to sell. They make it pay, why can't we? to our patrons and readers. Circular No. 16, We recommend to our patrons and readers Circular No. 16, prepared by the Utah Agricultural College, on "Better Seeds," application. Notes from the Field. Northern States Mission. "There are nine organized Relief Societies and eight Mothers' Classes in our mission," writes Sister Mary Smith Ellsworth. "We organized the Mothers' Class at Roseland into a Relief Society, October 29; and on November 8, the Mothers' Classes at Minneapolis and St. Paul, were organized into a Relief Society. There are 156 members in the Relief Society and about the same number in the Mothers' Classes, with an average attendance of 80 per cent. "In the Chicago Relief Society we have total cash on hand, $113; received during the year 1914, $22.35; disbursements for charity during the year, $22.31. One hundred dollars of this amount is in the Zion's Savings & Trust Company, $13.90 is held in the treasury here. "At Flint, Michigan, during 1914: cash received, $24.24; disbursed for charity and books, $14.36, leaving $9.88 in the treasury. They have also 60 quarts of fruit canned and kept in the Society. They have given clothes made over from adult clothes donated by the sisters and one quilt to the poor. "Winnipeg, Canada, cash on hand, January 1914: $18.41; income from donations and the sale of goods, $48.90; disbursements for charity, $13; $16 for material; cash on hand, $38.14. Besides this they have given to the poor, 4 children's dresses, 1 shirt waist, 10 infant dresses, 24 babies' napkins, 1 night robe, 30 garments made, sold and money not collected, 70 yards material on hand, 11 shirt waists made, 8 aprons, 2 knitted woolen skirts, 1 quilt. "The sisters of Winnipeg were preparing for a bazaar, but when war came they dropped all work and study and devoted one-half day each week making hospital shirts for the wounded soldiers; also knitting armlets and socks. The material for this is furnished them by the Industrial Bureau of Winnipeg, and they have become quite well known for the good work they are doing, having completed several dozens of shirts up-to-date. One lady who had never attended a 'Mormon' service, hearing of them, sent to have six shirts cut out by the Relief Society sisters which she took home and made. "Throughout the entire mission, we have studied the Genealogical lesson taking the family records chiefly during this past year, but in the last two or three months we have tried to push the regular genealogy work. In connection with the work in family records, we have followed the Parent and Child, outlined NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 77 by the Sunday School, and it has been a great power for good in every class where it has been studied. "Sisters Bertha Pearson and Zelda Kirkham, at St. Paul; Sisters Tirza Hanson and Fern Green, at Minneapolis; Lucy Baker and Olive Owen, at Springfield; Flora Meyerhoffer and Vera North, at Decatur; Mary Parker and Margaret Meldrum, at Roseland; Cora Boyce and Emma Anderson, at Logan Square; Lua Linton and Delia Peterson, at Indianapolis; Martha E. Bitter and Jane Smith, at Peoria; Elizabeth Berg and Alice Laws, at Detroit, all send in excellent reports of the good that has been accomplished by the Mothers' Classes which they are conducting. "In Minnesota, since they have commenced the study of genealogy, one sister has obtained 100 names, and all of the sisters have secured from twenty to thirty each. Besides this, every one has prepared a family record, and some of the best testimony meetings that I have ever attended have been held in these two cities where they have opened their hearts to this work. One sister, who seemed to feel it was impossible to make a start, was one day cleaning in her attic, and in an old trunk discovered letters that gave her the genealogy of her grandparents. In these two cities the only officer that they had was a secretary of each Mothers' Class. These two sisters, during the year, have never missed one meeting and have always been well prepared with their work. They meet once each week. The meetings have been conducted in the homes of friends as much as possible, and these friends were urged to invite their neighbors to attend the class. Two sisters have been baptized this year resulting from having the meetings held in their homes. "Of the lesson in the outline called, 'Beauties of Motherhood,' one sister made this statement: 'If I had been taught this lesson in my younger days, what a world of sorrow and regret I could have spared myself!' "Sister Bertha Pearson has been a great help to the sisters of these two cities. In her ward, the privilege was given all the girls to study genealogy under the direction of Sister Anna Piercy, but only a few accepted. They felt it was the duty of the older members, but I cannot tell you how much good has been accomplished through Sister Pearson's efforts, and it came to me while visiting there how little we realize how the Lord will open up the way to use us if we but qualify ourselves to be made use of. "In Springfield and Peoria several members have joined the Church by first becoming interested in the Mothers' Class. Sisters Bitter and Smith were given the privilege of speaking at a lodge meeting through one of the members who came to their Mothers' Class, and made many friends by having this experience. The Mothers' Classes are conducted exactly as we conduct our Relief Society. 
 "Everywhere I have had the privilege of visiting, the sisters have seemed thankful and happy for the visit, and seem willing to do all that we ask of them. They appreciate very much being organized into Societies and enjoy having something definite to work to. Since October 15, Relief Societies have been organized in Roseland, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Grand Rapids, Springfield, Evansville, Indianapolis, and Peoria, and the organizations at Milwaukee, Winnipeg and Bloomington have been visited and the Bloomington society reorganized. "Every Society that I have visited is doing good work — just as good as any at home, I believe. They are all studying, at least one afternoon or evening each week, and in most places one afternoon a month is devoted either to sewing, fancy work or, in the summer months, to taking care of fruit, pickles, etc. "I want to impress upon my sisters at home the great blessings that our Father has given to us. This General Board of the Relief Society has done nobly and well in giving us the beautiful outline contained in the Bulletin. The Bulletin carried with it the true spirit of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. It has opened my mind to many beautiful truths. It has brought peace, comfort and joy to dozens of honest-hearted sisters of the Northern States Mission, and it will be a blessing in the homes of all who will read it with a prayerful heart and follow the inspiration received therefrom. I know that the sisters of the General Board have been called of God to this work. May we give them our earnest and honest support in this great work. May our Father bless them and give them power to teach the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." "Mary Smith Ellsworth, "Chicago, Ill., Dec. 15, 1914." CEMENT CASKS KEEP WATER COOL WITHOUT ICE. In semiarid regions natives supply themselves with cool water through the use of porous earthen urns which are placed where they are shielded from the sun's rays and at the same time exposed to the action of the breezes. The moisture penetrating through the jars and accumulating on the exterior is evaporated rapidly by the hot winds, and the water within cooled. An adaptation of the same principle is a concrete water tank which may be used conveniently in places where ice is difficult to procure. Because ordinary concrete is porous it serves in this capacity just the same as if it were earthenware. Such a container is particularly suited for use on long golf courses and in harvest fields.