CONFERENCE ITEMS.

	Another general Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been
held in this city; and again, as ever before on
such occasions, has the Spirit and power of God
been richly poured out upon His Servants in
their endeavors to prompt, stimulate and in-
struct the people.
	From the many timely subjects treated upon
by the various speakers during the Conference,
we design selecting and connecting a few, which
may be considered of most importance to be
kept in memory, hoping that some good to our
readers may be the result. If not to those who
enjoyed the great privilege of listening to the
teachings and exhortations given, at least to
some who were not so highly favored.
	The grand movement for an increase of unity
in the church, was, as a matter of course, the
principal theme discoursed upon. At the open-
ing of the Conference, President Young made
a request that the Elders who should speak
would give expression to their feelings and
views concerning the “United Order.” And
much which was calculated to inform the minds
and strengthen the confidence of the Saints up-
on this subject, was spoken.
	Allusions were made to the Latter-day Work
in early times; when the Lord gave the law
and would have instituted among His Saints
the Order of Zion. But while some could com-
prehend the benefits and blessings which would
certainly prove the results of a unity of pur-
pose and action among a virtuous and indus-
trious people, others were so blinded by their
own selfish views, and their fears of loosing
property which the Lord had loaned them—for
no one was really the owner, though he might
be the possessor of wealth—that the Order could
not then be established. But now, it WOULD
be established.  Continual instructions and ex-
hortations had been offered to the Saints pre-
paratory to their receiving this principle. They
had gone as far as it was possible for them to go
in patterning after the vain fashions of the
world, and still stand as a distinct community.
Now, those who were desirous of serving God,
must turn round and pursue a different course.
Babylon would fall, and the Saints must be
prepared for it by having become a self-sustain-
ing people. Nearly every necessity of life could
be produced in Utah and, as for many of the
luxuries to which the people had become hab-
ituated, they would be healthier and happier
without them. One great object to be attained
was to get the people to understand the laws of
life, and the principles by which health and
longevity may be promoted. 
	There were among the Latter-day Saints, just
as good business men and mechanics of all kinds
as could be found in any part of the world. It was
not good, therefore, for such a community
to import much and export comparatively
nothing. It should produce and manufacture
more than it could consume, that it might have
something to sell, instead of buying. To
bring school teachers from other places are quite
unnecessary, as there were young people here,
who were naturally adapted to that calling; and
when boys and girls evinced a love of order and
study, and also displayed a power for governing
others in a proper manner, they were the ones
to select for the future school teachers. Books
could also be made by the people of the Terri-
tory, which would be far more advantageous to
them than sending for those manufactured
abroad. The work of type setting, and much
connected with the printing business belonged
to the women; and it was the design of the au-
thorities of the Church, to have an extensive
establishment prepared for the purpose of giv-
ing employment to women and girls who were
desirous of learning and following such pur-
suits. The efforts which the ladies had already
made in that direction, as well as the great
amount of good they had accomplished in ma-
ny other respects, were highly commendable,
and significant of what they were likely to per-
form when in possession of greater advantages
and opportunities. The experience of the past
also plainly showed that without the co opera-
tion of the women of a community, the pro-
gress of the men would amount to but very lit-
tle.
	Great willingness was unanimously manifes-
ted on the part of the people, to comply with
the counsels given and the requisitions made.
	The music of the Tabernacle choir during
Conference was appropriately chosen, well per-
formed, and in all respects, very excellent.
	At the close of the Conference, which con-
tinued four days, President Young thanked the
musicians for the part they had taken, the El-
ders who had prayed, those who had spoken,
also the people for coming together, and blest
them all. After which he adjourned the Con-
ference till the 6th day of next October.


