DIVERSIONS.

	THE dress circle—Crinoline.
	TO curb a fast young man—Bridal him.
	A. T. KETTLE is the only singer who never
had a cold.
	A SHOE dealer advertises "Woman's
Rights and Lefts."
	THE woman question—How shall I have
my summer suit made?
	"HUSBAND, where shall I get the ticking
for our new feather bed?" "Any place
where you can get the tick."
	HOW long ought a lady's crinoline to be?
Not too much above two feet.
	Everybody complains of his gas bill,
yet it is a light expense.
	THE ladies are having ruff times since the
Elizabethan fashion in neck gear has been
introduced.
	WHY does the eye resemble a schoolmas-
ter in the act of flogging? It has a pupil
under the lash.
	A MAN who had been to a crowded ball
said he was fond of rings on his fingers, but
he didn't like belles on his toes.
	IN Mississippi, when one is insulted, in-
stead of threatening to "put a head" on the 
offender, it is a stylish thing to say, "I'll
put your nose in a parenthesis."
	A WESTERN bridegroom sent an account
of his wedding to the village paper, and
was mortified when "the wedding trous-
seau" came out in print "the wedding
trousers."
	"YOU Swiss always fight for money; we
French for honor," said a pompous French
officer to a Swiss gentleman. "Yes," re-
sponded the latter; "it is natural for people
to fight for that which they most need."
	DURING Curran's last illness, his physician
remarked one morning that he seemed to
cough with more difficulty, he replied, "that
is surprising, as I have been practicing all
night."
	THE best definition to scandal ever given,
according to Arthur Helps, was that of a
little girl who described it thus: Nobody
does nothing, and everybody goes on tell-
ing it everywhere." That is better than
a dictionary.
	A JUDGE reprimanding a criminal, called
him a scoundrel. The prisoner replied;
"Sir, I am not as big a scoundrel as your
Honor"—here the culprit stopped, but fi-
nally added—"takes me to be." "Put your
words closer together," said the Judge.
	A MAN in Ohio was acquitted of a murder
on a plea of insanity, a year ago, and secured
his lawyers by giving them a mortgage on
his farm. He repudiates the mortgage now,
as he was insane when he made it, accord-
ing to the showing of the same lawyers.
	A YOUNG lady at Council Bluffs, being in-
formed by her "feller" that he intended to
cease his attentions, cowhided him around
the room, and as he was leaving, told him
that would teach him to be more careful for
the future  not to trifle with a gentle and
loving heart.
	YOUNG Simpson beginning the study of
natural philosophy, became fond of applying
technical names to common objects to im-
press hearers with a sense of his profound
knowledge, and tried the game with his 
father one evening. When he mentioned
to him that he had swallowed some "marine
acephalous molusks" the old man was much
alarmed, and he suddenly seized Simpson
and threw him to the floor, and held him
and screamed for help. When Mrs. Simpson
came with some warm water, and the hired
man rushed in with a garden pump, they
forced half a gallon of water down Simp-
son's throat, and then held him by the heels
over the edge of the porch and shook him,
while the old man said "if we don't get them
things out of William he will be pizened."
And when they were out, and William ex-
plained that the articles alluded to were
merely oysters, then his father fondled him
for half an hour with a trunk strap for scar-
ing the family.


