		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ATTENTION IS called, by the Rev. Dr.
Griswold, to a marked distinction between
the ideas and practices of ancient Christians,
and many worshippers of modern times in
relation to the object of people meeting to-
gether at the House of worship. He says,
"Now, the prevalent idea is that the great
feature in public services is a carefully-pre-
pared sermon; and that all the services prior
to that, are, as it were, subordinate and pre-
paratory to the discourse from man's lips
which is to follow. Then the idea of public
service was prayer and worship. Now, with
many, the sermon is uppermost, the central
service of the sacred assembly, and all other
services preparatory to that office. Then the
Supper of the Lord (which, in apostolic
days, was always celebrated on every Lord's
Day,) was foremost and the central service.
All other services were then preparatory
to that service. Then a presbyter in the
Church of Christ was appointed "to feed"
and "to govern" the Church of God. Now,
among many, a minister of Christ must be
chiefly known as a 'preacher." Is it not
clearly evident, that in these, as in number-
less other cases, the old sentiments, the old
ways are by far the wiser and happier? Yet,
where they have been restored by the power
of the Priesthood how few have accepted
them?
	THE AMERICAN palace sleeping cars have
been lately introduced into England with
success. In this country, which might be
called one of "magnificent distances," they
are considered not so much a luxury as
an indispensable comfort. And while, seem-
ingly, everything has been arranged that
could be done for the convenience of travel-
lers on the sleeping and eating cars, we do
not believe perfection has yet been attained,
nor will it be, until such suggestions as the
following, made by a lady traveller, be at-
tended to by inventors, for the comfort of
women.—"A woman's toilet, to be satisfac-
torily performed, demands some other posi-
tion than prone upon the face. Likewise,
it is somewhat more agreeable to perform
portions of the toilet unobserved by the
multitude. Men either are not burdened
with modesty, or they have minds that soar
so far above the feminine that they give no
thought to the embarrassment attendant up-
on the method and manner of disrobing
one's self in those close quarters. A woman
carefully extinguishes herself behind the
curtains, slyly unloosens a lace, envelops
herself decorously in a large waterproof,
not daring to lay aside her chignon for fear
of a surprise, and proceeds to stow herself
away uncomfortable and depressed. The
stranger in the bunk above leisurely divests
himself of his outer garments, pulls of boots,
loosens suspenders, and bounds into bed
with graceful ease, rather enjoying the situ-
ation! I think if there could be a lady's car
for sleeping and toilet, exclusive of gentle-
men, it would be a great advancement in
wayfaring civilization. I thought so this
morning, especially, when I awoke from un-
easy slumbers to find the foot-board fallen,
and a group of serene-browed men gazing
smiling upon my sleeping beauty. Let us

[Column 2]
have separate cars, good people, and we can
ask nothing more of you in the way of lux-
ury and restful ease."


