HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE WOULD call attention to L. L. D.'s "Talk
with the Sisters," which appears in this issue.
Read it Sisters, many of you are needing such
hints as are therein given, and it contains good
food for every intelligent mind.

	WITH THE present issue, closes the second
volume of the EXPONENT. To all who have
evinced a kindly concern in its behalf, during
its two years' progress, we tender grateful ac-
knowledgments, and extend a cordial invita-
tion to all lovers of truth and co-workers in the
cause of progression, to use their influence to
aid in its future support and augmentation.

	DURING THE past week, we have been favored
with calls from many friends, who, coming in-
to the city from different parts of the Territory
to attend the adjourned Conference, have man-
ifested their interest in the EXPONENT by "drop-
ping in" to speak words of good cheer; and, in
some instances, to offer even more substantial
and necessary avails than pleasant words. We
return them, one and all, our thanks and kind
wishes.

	THE FIREMEN had a torchlight procession on
the evening of the 8th. They numbered about
two hundred, and appeared in full uniform,
with banners, a band of music, engine, hose
and hook and ladder carriages gaily decorated,
and the occasional firing off of rockets. The
effect was enhanced by a dark, cloudy sky, and
altogether they formed a picturesque and ani-
mated scene.

	FROM THE annual report of the Superintend-
ent of St. Mark's Hospital, we learn that 353
patients have been received during the year,
and the total cost for each one has averaged
about $1.28 a day. Thirty patients who were
destitute had been treated without charge.
The Hospital began the year free from any
permanent indebtedness, but needs more means
and a more commodious building to properly
meet the demands that are made on it. We
think the subject a worthy one for the consid-
eration of the benevolent.

	THE PEOPLE of Salt Lake have lately had
the opportunity of seeing and hearing the fa-
mous lecturer, the wonderful woman, Victoria
C. Woodhull. Whatever her former life may
have been, or wherever herself or her senti-
ments may be met with reproach or ridicule,
there was nothing in her appearance, or in any-
thing she uttered in the Salt Lake Theatre, to
justify such a reception. She simply appeared
and spoke there, as a plain spoken, earnest,
honest woman, and was as such received. Our
want of space precludes further notice.


