HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Keep the birthdays.—They belong exclusively to
and are treasured among the sweetest memori[-]s of
home. Do not let anything prevent some token,
be it ever so slight, to show that it is remembered.
Birthdays are great events to children. For one
day they feel they are heroes. The special pud-
dings are made expressly for them; a new jacket,
trousers with pockets, or the first pair of boots is
donned, and big brothers and sisters sink into in-
significance beside "little Charley" who is "six to-
day," and is soon "going to be a man." Fathers
who have half a dozen little ones to care for are apt
to forget birthdays—they come too often. Some-
times they are too busy, and sometimes they are
bothered; but if they only knew how much
such souvenirs are cherished by their children years
afterwards, when, away from the hearthstone, they
have none to remind them that they have added
one more year to the perhaps weary round of life,
or to wish them, in the good, old-fashioned phrase,
"many happy returns of their birthday," they
would never permit any cause to step in between
them and a parent's privilege.—R. N. Y.
	How to Restore old Writing.—Writing which
has become illegible by age, may be restored by
moistening it with an iufnsion of galls.
	A Good Bread Pudding.—Take five slices of
dry bread or their equivalent in broken pieces,
pour over them three quarts of sweet milk, let them
soak, then add four or five eggs, beaten well with
one large’cup of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, and
spice or nutmeg to suit the taste. Do not crumb
the bread, but just brake the slices in several pieces,
letting them float in the milk.  Bake in a moder-
ately hot oven; the pudding should be nicely brown-
ed, with a rich custard beneath the bread. To be
eaten warm, with no dressing except butter. Very
good cold.
	Here is an excellent recipe for making genuine
erasive soap that will remove grease and stains from
clothing: Two pounds of good castile soap; half a
pound of carbonate of potash, dissolved in half a
pint of hot water. Cut the soap in thin slices,
boil the soap with the potash until it is thick enough
to mold in cakes, also add alcohol, half an ounce;
color with half an ounce of pulverized charcoal.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject so bad to bear
and so difficult to cure as the earache; but there is
a remedy never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up and tie it; dip it in sweet oil and in-
sert in the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the
head to keep it warm. It will give immediate re-
lief.—"Exchange."
	The feet being covered from the view, are less
important to beauty than to comfort. A neat foot
is, nevertheless, a great addition to personal beauty.
The preservation of the feet is so essential to the
daily purposes of life, that every care should be
taken of them. Corns are formed by the harden-
ing of the cuticle under pressure of the shoe.
Loose shoes, by moving and rubbing upon a partic-
ular point, are as apt to produce corns as tight
shoes. There are various remedies: A little sweet
oil rubbed upon the scat of the corn has been
found to check its development. The oil should be
applied after the corn has been pared.
	Oat chaff Beds.—A most soft, comfortable and
wholesome filling for beds or for matrasses can be
procured in most country places by getting a far-
mer to allow oat chaff to be saved. It is soft,
light and elastic, and very sweet. The cost is very
little, only the labor paid to the farmer for the men
saving and sifting it. As oat chaff is rarely used
for cattle food, it is easily obtained. It is so very
light that a slighter kind of bed-tick than is neces-
sary for other kinds of filling is quite sufficient for
oat chaff. Another advantage is that it can be
changed every year with so little cost that it is
within the reach of any one. For children's beds it
is perfectly satisfactory. It is only necessary to
keep a sack or two stuffed full of oat chaff in a dry
place, and then new and fresh filling is at hand to
make a sweet bed, whatever accident may have be-
fallen the cot mattress.


