SPLINTERS.

	Boydtown, Va., has a colored postmistress,
her name is Mary E. Jones......Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. Norris is Assistant Register of
Deeds in Barnstable......It is estimated that
the Patrons of Husbandry saved nearly six
million dollars by co-operative purchasing
last year......Mr. R. B. Forbes suggests calm-
ing the sea by means of oil; the idea is said
to have originated with Benjamin Franklin,
who saw the effects produced by the acci-
dental upsetting of a barrel of oil while
crossing the Atlantic......Mark Miller, an
agricultural Editor, who was the founder of
the "Wisconsin Farmer," and afterwards
published the "Northwestern Farmer," re-
cently died at his home near Des Moines....
Ten or twelve young men in Louisiana have
placed themselves under the supervision of
a competent man, and have secured land,
teams, seed and implements necessary for
carrying on the farming business, which
they intend to learn......A proposition has
been made for the construction of a railway
from Naples to the crater of Mount Versu-
vius.........In California, Chinamen are now
employed as draught animals.........Joseph
Arch contemplates coming to America in
June......It is reported that at and around
Hernando, Miss., it rained brimstone the
other day.........A history of American cur-
rency is soon to be published by Prof. Sum-
ner, of Yale College......Only three dollars'
worth of damage was done last year by the
well behaved students of Michigan College
......Patrons of Husbandry, it is said, are dis-
approved of by the Archbishop of San Fran-
cisco, and the sentiment is reciprocated......
Ex-Governor Claflin of Massachusetts is go-
ing into the shoe manufacturing business in
New Hampshire......The French Prince Im-
perial is said to look like his mother.........
Governor Ames of Mississippi has become
popular for having dispensed with wine at
his late reception......The wig which Lord
Brougham wore when he was Lord Chan-
cellor of England, was found among the
many rare curiosities owned by the late
Senator Sumner......The ex-King of Naples
lost with his throne, the possession of four 
splendid palaces, and now he lives in a hum-
ble dwelling near Paris......Texas, with all
her cattle, sells milk at one dollar a gallon
......Kansas prints one hundred and eighteen
newspapers...........A Wisconsin dairyman
wants to learn something about this "crema-
tion" (burning of the dead) business,......A
new disease called "the pink eye," has ap-
peared among the horses in New York and
Brooklin. The discharge in this case is from
the eyes instead of the nose as in cases of
epizootic, and for a time the horse afflicted
is quite blind......A report from the Russian
Co-operative Manufacturing and Trade So-
ciety, is in favor of the construction of a 
railroad between Russia and China,
through Siberia.


