PEN AND SCISSORS.

	SOME people have their thinking, like
their washing, done out.

	AT the laying of the corner stone of the
new capitol of Iowa no speeches were made
except a few brief and pointed remarks by a
workman who got his fingers pinched.

	THOSE who are continually wanting the
most are likely to prove, on investigation,
to be those who are wasteful and careless
with what they possess.

	"HARD Times" sociables are fashionable
in Western Pennsylvania. The guests are
compelled to appear in patched clothing,
and the refreshments consist of mush, milk
and potatoes.

	A HAPPY CUSTOM.—In Switzerland there
is a law which compels every newly mar-
ried couple to plant six trees immediately
after the ceremony, and two on the birth of
every child. They are planted on the com-
mon and near the road, and being mostly
fruit trees are both useful and ornamental.
The number planted amounts to 10,000 an-
ually.

	A WONDERFUL discovery has been made
at Corralville, Iowa. In the lime-pits,
while making a drill hole for a blast, the
tool struck something hard. It proved to
be a bronze shield,similar to those found in
the Island of Silt and Denmark. Although
much corroded, marks of blows can be seen
on it, and some remains of zigzag metal-
work.

	THERE are dangers ahead of us. We
should be maniacs, rather than patriots, to
think so well of our country as to suppose it
incapable of taking harm. We are threat-
ened by dangers from the increase of crimi-
nals, from the enlargement of the pauper
class, and from the decay of political sense
and political virtue among us. True wisdom
consists in frankly admitting these dangers,
and in honestly searching for the best means 
of counteracting them.

	CAUSE OF INTEMPERANCE.—One cause of
the commonness of intemperance in the
present state of things, is the heavy burden
of care and toil which is laid on a large mul-
titude of men. Multitudes to earn subsist-
ence for themselves and their families, are
compelled to undergo a degree of labor
exhausting to the spirits and injurious to
the health; of consequence, relief is sought
in stimulants. We do not find that civili-
zation lightens man’s toils; as yet it has in-
creased them, and in this effect I see a sign
of deep defect in what we call the progress
of society. It cannot be the design of the
Creator that the whole of life should be
spent in drudgery for the supply of animal
wants. That civilization is very imperfect
in which the mass of men can redeem no
time for intellectual, moral, and social cul-
ture. It is melancholy to witness the deg-
radation of multitudes to the condition of
beasts of burden. Exhausting toils unfit
the mind to resist temptation. The man
spent with labour, and cut off by his con-
dition from higher pleasures is compelled to
seek a deceitful solace in sensual excess.
One thing seems plain, that there is no ten-
dency in our present institutions and habits
to bring relief. On the contrary the, poor
seem to be more and more oppressed with
incessent toil, exhausting forethought, anx-
ious struggles, feverish competitions.—Dr.
Channing.


