FLORAL HINTS.

	DAHLIAS, as soon as they commence their
growth must be tied to stakes.
	SOW seeds of Sweet-pea, Cypress-vine,
Morning Glory, etc., where a screen is need-
ed and for covering trellises.
	EDGINGS around walks and beds should be
kept neatly cut, and no grass or weeds al-
lowed to grow on the paths.
	SET out Gladiolus, Tiger flower, and Lily
bulbs in rich soil Tuberoses do best if plant-
ed in pots and started in the house before
setting out.
	EVERGREENS succeed best when planted
some time during this month, May. Great
care must be taken not to allow the roots to
dry by exposure to the winds.
	SOW annuals as soon as the ground becomes
warm. Perrennials should be sown in sepa-
rate beds from the annuals. Sow the seeds
of those now coming into flower, as soon as
they are ripe.
	LAWNS should be cut often in order to
keep the surface neat and smooth. If the
grass is not too thick, allow it to remain on
the ground; it will serve as a fertilizer, and
also prevent the sun from drying out the
roots. Shrubs flower better if properly
pruned.
	REMOVE THE FLOWERS.—Lovers of flow-
ers should know that one blossom allowed
to mature or "go to seed," injures the plant
more than a dozen new buds. Cut your
flowers, all of them, before they fade. Adorn
your room with them, put them on your ta-
bles; send boquets to your friends who have
no flowers, or exchange favors with those
who have. All roses, after they have ceased
blooming, should be cut back, that the
strength of the root may go to forming new
roots for next year, and on these bushes not
a seed should be allowed to mature.—Ex.
	RULES FOR JUDGING THE BEST CARN-
TION.—Miller, Abercrombie, Maddock, and 
others have written on the properties re-
quisite to characterize a first-rate Carnation;
but it is to Mr. Glenny, as a standard au-
thority, that we are indebted for concentrat-
ing and improving the rules of his prede-
cessors in floral criticism. From the latter
gentleman's "Standard of Perfection," with
trifling alterations, we extract the following
properties of the Carnation:—
	1. The flower should not be less than two
and a half inches across.
	2. The guard or lower petals, not less than
six in number, must be broad, thick, and
smooth on the outside, free from notch or
serrature on the edge, and lapping over
each other sufficiently to form a circular
rose-like flower: the more perfectly round
the outline the better.
	3. Each layer of petals should be smaller
than the layer immediately under it; there
should not be less than five or six layers of
petals placed regularly; and the flower
should rise in the centre so as to form a
semi-globular shape.
	4. The petals should be stiff, free from
notches, and slightly cupped.
	5. The ground should be pure white, with-
out specks.
	6.The stripes of color should be clear and
distinct, not running into one another, not
confused; but dense, smooth at the edges,
and well-defined.
	7. The colors, whatever they may be,
must be bright and clear; if there be two
colors, the darkest one cannot be too dark,
or form too strong a contrast with the light-
er. With scarlet, the perfection would be a
black; with pink there cannot be too deep a 
crimson; with lilac or light purple, the sec-
ond color cannot be too dark a purple.
	8. If the colors run into the white and
tinge it, or the white is not pure, the fault
is very great, and pouncy spots or specks
are highly objectionable.
	9. The pod of the bloom should be long
and large, to enable the flower to bloom
without bursting it; but this is rare. They
generally require to be tied down about half
way, and the upper part of the calyx opened
down to the tie; yet there are some kinds
which scarcely require any assistance, and
this is a very estimable quality.
	10. Decided superiority of perfume should
obtain the prize, when competing flowers
are in other respects of equal merit.—En-
glish Paper.


DUTCH CLEANLINESS.—If cleanliness can
ever be carried to excess it is in Holland.
The very servants have such caps and ker-
chiefs and aprons and lace, and so beauti-
fully got up, I can compare it to nothing
but a laundress on a pleasure party taking a
days’ wear of her mistress’ best things.
Of course, they have a wash every week-
day, besides the grand one on Saturdays,
when they really wash everything in the
place, except the water. As an instance of
their particularity, at almost every house
there is a sort of double looking-glass out-
side the window, as if for seeing up and
down the street but Frank says it is that
the Dutch ladies may watch, before being at
home to a friend, whether he has dirty boots
or shoes.—“Hood”


