DICKENS AND HIS WIFE.
	The history of Charles Dickens' marriage
is simple enough.  He was at that time earn-
ing about thirty shillings a week, and met
Mrs. Dickens, then a moon-faced, fair-haired,
even-tempered, round-waisted, good-na-
tured, but very common-place English girl;
one of those women the height of whose
ambition is a large family, a little cottage, a 
new dress, a big bow and a merry Christ-
mas.  She was an honest, virtuous, simple-
minded, slightly romantic woman, whose
heart was in her home.  Charles Dickens
at that time was a young man of very ner-
vous temperament, with unbounded self-
esteem, and would have made a good hus-
band had he not been successful.  It was
after the birth of their second child that
Dickens began to realize the importance of
doing something to add to his "pot au feu."
He himself has often described with what
fear and trembling—having a wife and two
crying babes to provide for at home, and an
unlimited number of small creditors watch-
ing him—how he approached the great, big, 
yawning editor's box of Chapman & Hall,
and threw in his first two chapters of
"Sketches by Boz."  How astonished he was
a few days after to see an advertisement re-
questing "B[-]z" to call on the editor, and 
with what joy and trembling he returned
home and told his wife that he had been of-
fered £20 a chapter for his "Sketches."  The
era of Dickens' "Sketches" constituted the
happiest days of Mrs. Charles Dickens.
Often has the writer heard how Dickens
would read them to his wife and dance
wildly around the room.  With the close of
the "Sketches" began Mrs. Dickens troubles.
To better understand the gradual change in 
Charles Dickens' treatment of his wife, it is
necessary to analyze the character and train-
ing of the so-called common-place English
girl.  In this country the women easily 
adapt themselves to their positions in life.
In fact, in this country the woman generally
rises superior to the man.  Not so, however,
with the dull, good-natured, loving English
girl.  She, from her earliest childhood, is
brought up in a circle whose views are nar-
row and whose education is extremely lim-
ited.  The monotony of her existence is 
only broken by her regular attendance at
church and the counting of the household
linen on wash-day.  If she goes to the Crys-
tal Palace she will stare vaguely at the Cor-
reggio and make quaint remarks when
brought in contact with a "chief d'œuvre."
Her eyes will only sparkle as she sits in the 
buffet, or dining-room.  Her circle of acquaint-
ances will be among her own class, and that
class of society, like herself sees no beauty
in art, nor can appreciate true genius.  This 
is the character of Mrs. Dickens—a truly 
good-natured, loving, motherly woman.  So 
long as Charles Dickens had to buffet against
adversity, so long was he contented with
his little wife.  But as soon as Charles Dick-
ens began to be courted; as soon as he found
he was on the road to immortality and for-
tune; as soon as he began to mix in society,
and realized the extraordinary fascination
of mixing among the upper ten, then 
Charles Dickens, for the first time, looked
down upon his little wife, who could not do
justice to the name of her husband.  There 
is no mystery attached to the separation.—
"Cor. New York Hearld."


THE SEAT OF WAR.—A correspondent
asks if the seat of war is cushioned. If it
is not it ought to be; for it is not a very soft
seat at any time.


