THE SEX.

	AN Albany woman is going to found an
asylum for cats.
	JENNIE Lind wants to visit America this
season but her husband objects.
	HELEN Dickens, a daughter of Charles
Dickens, is creating quite an excitement in
England from her writings.
	THE woman of Iowa are rapidly prepar-
ing for the ballot by instruction in parlia-
mentary debate and general business.
	THE health of the Empress Charlotte,
widow of Maximilian, is excellent, but there
is no improvement in her mental condition.
	A MODEST Cincinnati belle, upon being
asked her father's profession, said he em-
balmed pork, she believed. He was a hog-
packer.
	THE late Mrs. Lincoln, widow of Colonel
Frederick W. Lincoln, of Canton, Mass., has
left the noble bequest of $200,000 to the
Massachusetts General Hospital.
	MRS. Arnott, the widow of the late Dr.
Neil Arnott, has offered to give $5000 for
the purpose of promoting the study of nat-
ural philosophy in the University of Edin-
burgh.
	MRS. Lucinda Marsh, widow of Major
David Marsh, of Litchfield, Conn., left a
will giving her property to trustees to di-
vide the income among the needy poor of 
that town.
	QUEEN Victoria will be formally invited
by the corporation of the city of London to
participate in the entertainment to be given
by the city to the czar, and it is possible
that the Queen will take this opportunity to
emerge from her long seclusion.
	MRS. Lowry, an actress, having recently
become a convert to Methodism, was ap-
pointed to the ministry at the conference
lately closed at Baltimore. She was a
prominent feature at several of Mrs. Van
Cott's revivals, while that lady figured in
the Monumental City.
	A FARMER'S wife in Animosa, Iowa, be-
ing exasparated at the tardiness of the fire
in the kitchen stove about dinner time, the
other day, applied the great American obit-
uary promoter. She immediately retired
through the west window, while the whole
house was aglow with the light and redo-
lent with the fumes of the burning oil.
Her show of wisdom was no credit to "the
sex," though an angry man might have com-
mitted just as foolish an act.
	THE young Empress of Japan, Haruko,
who recently set her people the example of
letting her wifely eyebrows grow and her
wifely teeth remain white, now appears in
public, visits schools, encourages teachers
and scholars in the capital, and shows her
"divinity" in a manner not very different
from the divine ladies of other lands. She
is eminently a fitting spouse for the brilliant
and progressive Mikado.


