A TALK WITH THE SISTERS.

	The Bible severely condemns a "gadding
woman;" and this fact, conjoined with some
others, makes some of our conscientious sis-
ters backward even to attend their Society
meetings. The are not to be blamed for
disliking to be the recipients of so disgusting
a title as "Gadder," but I insist that they
greatly mistake its application.
	Gadding is wandering idly in the neigh-
borhood, with no higher aim than the pur-
suit of gossip; and if any sister attends
gatherings of the sisterhood with this aim
only, she would do as well to remain away.
But I am proud to doubt that any fall so far
short of a realization of their high calling.
	For the benefit of those who deem they
can always spend their time better at 
home, let us discuss the question.
	While we all admit that it is our duty to do
the very best we know, many seem to think
that what we do not know will never be
counted against us. But how will it be if
we are wilfully ignorant? if we purposely
avoid the means of gaining knowledge
either of temporal or spiritual things? Shall
we not then fall under condemnation for our
ignorance? If we fail to cultivate the tal-
ents we possess, shall we not fare as did the
unprofitable servant who hid his talent in
the earth and improved it not?
	Besides the disbursement of charity, it is
the duty of each member of a Society of
sisters to improve herself; and she may be
sure that whatever she gains in vigor of
thought and understanding, happy expres-
sion or self-possession, her children will in-
herit. The mother's looks, ways and forms
of speech are unconsciously copied by her
children, and for their sake it is her duty to
cultivate every worthy attribute of her na-
ture to the utmost extent of harmonious ac-
tion, that she may have the ability to set for
them a copy worthy of imitation.
	If she never undertakes to address sev-
eral persons connectedly, how shall she over-
come the habit of speaking in the fragmen-
tary, unfinished style of the ignorant and
timid? When shall she cease to be morti-
fied at hearing her children hesitate, repeat
and stammer when trying to narrate any
passing incident? If she never expects to
impart her thoughts to others, what stimu-
lus has she to cultivate habits of deep and
continuous thought? and if she has not that
power herself, how can she give it to her
children?
	If she strengthen not her own faith in
the glorious plan of salvation which God
has revealed to His children, how can she
build up theirs? If no noble enthusiasm
for the good of humanity warm her own
heart, how can she impart such to them?
	Dear sisters, may it not be that God is
testing us in small matters preparatory to
calling us in labor in great ones? or, rather,
does not He  allow great matters to appear
small in our eyes, that we may prove wheth-
er we are willing to live up to our privileges
and avail ourselves of every opportunity to
educate ourselves, and be prepared to oc-
cupy any position, however important or
responsible, to which we may be called?
	How can we guess what all-important
duties the near future has in store for us?
There are yet portions of the Gospel unre-
vealed, and in view of what it may disclose,
how heedful should we be that the dark day
finds us not with dark and empty lamps like
the foolish virgins.
	We are women; and the day has yet
scarcely dawned when the name woman is
not a synonym of ignorance and weakness.
We are gathered from the midst of all na-
tions, and in every one of these nations, the
education of woman was almost ignored.
	Being, then, only children in acquire-
ments, even though now our lot is cast
among a people who believe it only just that
woman should be as highly educated as man,
it is necessary that we begin climbing at
the foot of the ladder, and if we never
reach the top in this world, let us not falter,
for whatever we gain is ours, and to every
step we ascend we may lift our children with
far less trouble to them, than if they were
climbing alone.
	Our society meetings are excellent schools
in which to gain, if we will, a knowledge
of passing events, the situation and progress
of the different stakes of Zion, the real
character and features of the religion we
profess, something of finance, an interest in
public enterprises, lessons of sympathy for
fellow-creatures, a social, sisterly feeling for
each other, the steadiness of nerve requisite
to stand on our feet and address a company
of our peers, and many other good and nec-
essary lessons.
	Among other things, it is necessary to
learn discrimination between good and evil
for ourselves, and not be dependent on
others for information on such subjects.
Then we should no longer be in such un-
wholesome fear of being sneered at as
'strong-minded," "blue-stocking" &c., and
if we go about on legitimate and honorable
business we cannot be frightened out of it
because some unworthy child of Adam
chooses to accuse us of "gadding."
	Although woman's first, and most likely
her last, duty is at her fireside, she has in-
termediate ones elsewhere. She should
visit the sick to surprise the weak appetite
with some dainty of her own preparation,
to lighten a heavy hour with her gentle con-
versation, or win for the sufferer a refresh-
ing slumber by fixing the attention of noisy,
neglected little ones with a pleasant story
or a new game.
	She should attend lectures, concerts, libra-
ries, art galleries and whatever means is
within her reach to inform her mind, relax
her nerves, and quicken her relish of life;
for by these means she gives her children
happy tempers, quick understandings and
healthy bodies.
	Be it remembered only, that recreation,
like labor, should be taken in such quanti-
ties as will invigorate, not weaken. And
no manifest duty should be set aside for
something more agreeable; but let us imi-
tate the school-boy who plays to rest from
study, and studies to rest from play.
	The great point which I wish to urge is
that the child of a cultivated mother is
more likely to be intelligent than the child
of an ignorant mother—a moral mother's
child will be moral, a capable woman's child
will be capable, a religious mother's child
religious &c. My firm belief is that the
mother who keeps home more strictly than
necessary, thus leading too narrow a life, is
farther from her duty than she who studies
to save labor that she may have time to
mingle with her kind, to inform her mind
and refresh her body. Indeed the latter
course is the duty of every mother so far as
it extends. It is foolish almost to wicked-
ness to consume time, strength and temper
in embroidering, tucking and ruffling what
we wear, when plain, neat garments are
just as pleasant to look upon, and far more
comfortable; or to spend the long fervid
hours of a summer's day over a roaring
stove, stirring, beating, frothing, mixing
unhealthful compounds to stimulate still
more our already vitiated appetites, and im-
pair still further our weak digestion, when
plain, simple diet is what we so much need
for our health's sake and to spare the blister-
ing, melting, laborious process of prepara-
tion.
	Let us examine all things in the light of
reason, and on each separate occasion go or
stay, do or leave undone, as our best judg-
ment dictates; and when duty says stay, do
so without a sigh for outside pleasures; but
when she says go, step forth in all the dig-
nity of conscious rectitude, heedless alike of
the fears of the timid and the scoffs of the
scornful.
						L. L. D.
	Beaver, April 2nd, 1874


