FLOWERS.

	NO man is free who does not command
himself.
	THE tongue,--the latch-key that lets out
the mind.
	HE is rich whose income is more than
his expenses.
	THE trials of life are the tests which as-
certain how much gold is in us.
	POETRY.—The music of thought convey-
ed to us in the music of language.
	NONE should despair; God can help them.
None should presume; God can cross them.
	WHAT men want is not talent, but purpose;
in other words,not the power to achieve, but
the will to labor.
	ALL men can perceive the vanity of past
pleasures; but how few discover the vanity
of those which are to come.
	MANY a child goes astray not because
there is want of prayer or virtue at home,
but simply because home lacks sunshine.
	THE Hindoos extend their hospitality to
their enemies, saying: “The tree does not
withdraw its shade even from the wood cut-
ter."
	THE spectacle of a field of battle after the
combat, should be sufficient to inspire prin-
ces with the love of peace, and the horror of 
war.—Napoleon.
	LORD Chatham, who was almost as re-
markable for his mannners as for his elo- 
quence, defined good breeding to be “Be-
nevolence in the little daily occurrences of 
life."
	THE chief secret of comfort lies in not
suffering trifles to vex one, and in prudently
cultivating an undergrowth of small plea-
sures, since very few great ones are let on 
 ong leases.
	THE last, best fruits which come to late
perfection, even in the kindliest soul, is 
tenderness toward the hard, forbearance to- 
wards the unforbearing, warmth of heart 
towards the cold, philanthropy towards the
misanthropic.—Jean Paul.
	AVARICE has been termed “the vice of
little minds.” And so it is, in the sense in
which it is generally understood. But
though the vice of a little mind, it is by no
means a little vice, but one of the largest,
as it is insatiable in its desire and unlimited
in its cravings.
	A PERSON is not worth anything that has 
not had troubles. You cannot subdue self-
ishness without a struggle.  You cannot re-
strain pride without a conflict. You cannot
expect to go through life without bearing
burdens. But you are going to have help 
under circumstances that will redeem you
from these things. You are going to expe- 
rience more victories than defeats. Your 
suffering will be only here and there—little
spots in a whole field of peace and joy.


