                           WRITING.

	I have chosen this subject, not that it is
an uncommon one, but because I think it a
fit one for young ladies to consider. I will
notice the unreasonable extravagance of the
lady who “alamode,” wears costly silk
dresses either trailing upon the ground or
else trimmed up to the waist with ruffles,
laces, velvet, fringe &c. Then in addition
to this, the false curls, frizzes, puffs and
other varieties of unreal and often shabby
looking hair; the stylish hat or the “love of
a bonnet” from Paris; the powder to make
the face nice and white, and the paint to
give color; the tight lacing to make the waist
small and round; and the little shoes, ever
so much smaller than the feet which are
crowded into them.—you know it requires
all these things to complete the toilet of a
fashionable lady. And often, much more
than this is necessary to satisfy her ambition
to attract attention and “out shine” her asso-
ciates in regard to dress.
And the general excuse for such folly is,
“Oh! one might as well be out of the world
as out of fashion.” I think they might bet-
ter all be out of the world than to follow
such ridiculous and injurious customs.
	Another lame excuse that some of them
make for their vanity, is, that they do so to
please the gentlemen. Well, I would let
the gentlemen be displeased with me and
my ways before I would be such a slave to
fashion. But if some of them could hear
the "side speeches" made about them by
the very gentlemen they strive so hard to
please, they would want to hide themselves,
and never again be guilty of such foolish-
ness.
	Were I a man and wanting a wife, I would
wait and search long and patiently to find a
good, plain hearted girl who was content
with being dressed neatly and sensibly be-
fore I would marry one of these butteflies
of fashion. It is a real fact that “beauty is
but skin deep;” and after all, a beautiful
soul is worth more than all the fine clothing
or beautiful faces in the world. There is
another trite saying which I think a very
true and logical one. It is simply this,
“Pretty is that pretty does."
	I do not wish my young lady friends to
misunderstand me. I would not like to see
girls of sixteen or twenty trying to appear
like women of forty or fifty, by making their
dresses to look odd and old fashioned.
Though even that would be better than en-
couraging the uncomfortable modes belong-
ing to the present fashions for ladie’s dress.
I think girls should cultivate good taste and
dress neatly and modestly, taking some
pains to wear whatever they find most be-
coming to them, regardless of prevailing
fashions.
	Now, if I may venture, I will say a few
words to the gentlemen. I can make little
distinction between old and young, for in
such respects as I shall allude to, age seems
to make but little difference.
	For instance, a coat must be of the latest
style, of course, and made by a fashionable
tailor and the material must be of broad
cloth or some other imported goods.—Once
some of them at least, were glad to get
homespun.—The shirt must be just so nice,
without a crease or a spot, and finished off
with a satin gloss. Ten cents is nothing to
pay for having a pair of boots polished in
the finest order. Oh no! But I think it
would be more to the gentleman’s credit if
he did it himself. And I know something
else about them, many of them pinch and
cripple their feet just as badly as the ladies
do, to make them look small and genteel.
Then the hair must be cut and perfumed in
just such a manner, and topped off with the
very latest style of hats. And Oh! that
darling mustache how tenderly and carefully
must that be caressed and petted!
	I do not pretend to say the men either
young or old, are all like this. But too
many of them are; and I believe that such
are the very ones that have so much to say
about the absurdities of the fashions and
the extravagance of women. They don’t
see that there is anything of more impor-
tance for them to trouble their poor, empty
heads over, after they have made them-
selves to look as exquisitely "beautiful" as
possible.
	I needn't say, sensible girls will never al-
low themselves to be “taken in” by any
such dandified fop, because everyone knows
that.—I hope I haven’t offended any one,
or intruded too long on any person’s time.
                                  MISS MARY D.
14th Ward.


