		"MAN, KNOW THYSELF."

	There are many people who are very ig-
norant of that injunction, “Know thyself.”
I love the study of nature, for it leads to na-
ture’s God. No study is to me more inter-
esting than that sublime one, the machinery
of the human system. So complicated, so
ingeniously fitted up, as a tabernacle for the
spirit to dwell in! This is the place for the
immortal spirit to inhabit while preparing
for those higher regions, where knowledge
is gained without so much laborious study,
and every branch is learned so perfectly and
so easily that it does not take years to ac-
complish almost nothing, as it does here.
Still, I am thankful for what little I have
learned. And daily, as I grow older, I
thirst more and more after knowledge.
There is no study more interesting to me or
more beneficial to every one, than that of
Physiology, which teaches of man, the mas-
ter piece of creation and the likeness of the
Deity. It was what I learned of this study,
when a girl, over forty years ago, that has
kept me from doing things that would offend
that great Architect who framed this case-
ment of flesh and bones, which baffles hu-
man skill and ingenuity. We should learn
of what elements these bodies are composed,
how they are nourished, preserved and con-
tinually built up. And we should consider
well the importance of properly understand-
ing, in order that we may properly provide
for these living temples of living souls, than
which there is nothing greater or grander,
save the Creator himself.
	The world of nature is divided into three
kingdoms—the animal, the vegetable and
the mineral. All within these three king-
doms is again divided into, either living
bodies or dead matter. A mineral has
neither life nor fixed arrangement. A vege-
table has both; so also has an animal, and
in a still higher degree. This distinction
between animal and vegetable structures,
and mineral substances—between living
bodies and masses of dead matter, is, in
some instances not very easy to trace, and
yet it is most fixed and certain. For a long
time coral was thought to be nothing more
than a mineral; but when on examination,
it was found to be a growth, it was taken
from the mineral into the vegetable king-
dom and still more recently, having been
discovered to be a congeries of animals, it
has been recognized as belonging to the ani-
mal kingdom. The human body is made
up of hard or solid parts, such as the bones
and the teeth; of soft parts, such as the
muscles, the brain, &c., and of fluids, such
as the blood. It is said that God formed
man out of the dust of the earth: and won-
derfully do the minute atoms of the earth’s
surface most perfectly correspond with the
materials of which the human body is com-
posed. In no living body has any element
yet been found which does not also exist in
the very matter on which we tread. Else
how could man return to his mother earth,
from which he was taken? The earth was
created first, as an habitation for man. Not
immediately, but gradually was it fitted up
for man’s dwelling place and when the
time came for the creation of man, God
caused that he should partake of the nature
of the earth, that there might exist a rela-
tionship between the earth and the man
whom He designed for its inhabitant. This
subject is an exhaustless one, and to me, one
of unspeakable interest; and I shall be
pleased to contribute some of my thoughts
concerning it from time to time, hoping
that by so doing I may, at least draw the
attention of some, and awaken an inter-
est for a most useful study which I consider
has been very much neglected. 
                               M. A. E. WATMOUGH
Salt Lake City.


