EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our little settlement is trying to progress,
We are doing the best we can, although we
have had a great deal of sickness the past
winter; yet we feel to acknowledge the
hand of God in it for we are told "whomso-
ever the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
that He is displeased with none save it be
those that will not acknowledge His hand
in all things." In the midst of all this
sickness we have seen the power of God
made manifest many times, and I know
that if we are faithful and prayerful before
God we can do much good; and whatever
we set our minds to do the Lord will bless,
whether it is to lay up grain, or to aid in
building temples; these are things that
every one is interested in or should be; and
let us as sisters try to live our religion at
home, if we can do this it will be much to
our credit; and let us be ever ready to re-
spond to the calls of those that are placed
over us: may the Lord help us to do so is the
wish of you sister in the Gospel,
						LYDIA RICH.
	Morgan City, May 20, 1877.

	Sisters I have reflected much of late up-
on the position we occupy as helpmeets to
the brethren in the cause of Zion, and have
often thought I would like to cast my mite
among those who write for our Woman's
paper; their words of comfort and encour-
agement are of great worth to me, and I
trust to all those who are interested in the
Gospel. The condition of the women
here in Utah, is something much talked
of now, and pondered upon by those
who are seriously inclined. They are de-
sirous to know something of these degrad-


ed women who are considered a disgrace to
the great American Republic. We are
willing that they should know concerning
our history, our practical lives. We are
free to do right, we are free to do wrong.
We know what is the will of our heavenly
Father concerning us, and how much better
for us to do it, than to turn from it to the
vanities and abominations of the world.
The will of the Lord to us is to enter into
the covenants of patriarchal marriage and
raise up pure seed unto Him, who will not
be corrupted with the evils that are prac-
ticed in this nineteenth century, by the so-
called ladies and gentlemen of the age.
But the cry is “put these Mormons to death,
they are not fit to live among such as we,”
—Yes you that are destroying your off-
spring and that have become so degenerat-
ed as not to be willing to fulfill the first
commandment "to multiply and replenish
the earth." You that are reveling in lux-
ury and fashion, and draining to the dregs
the cup of iniquity, some under the cloak
of religion, others more openly, should
know that the light of the Everlasting Gos-
pel has come into the world, and all have a
chance for repentance, and all will be re-
warded according to their works.
	Praying that the Lord will bless the sis-
ters in the great work of redemption in
which we are engaged for the living and
for the dead, and desiring to be a co-worker
in this great and glorious cause, I will now
close.
						S. C. D.


