EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Society has lost one of our aged mem-
bers, Margaret Bleasdell, who departed this life
May 26, in her eightieth year; she left a hus-
band, aged eighty-two years, and several chil-
dren (some of whom are in the States). She
had over fifty grandchildren and a number of
great-grandchildren. She always took great
interest in every movement that was for the
advancement of the kingdom of God; it was
her delight to converse on the principles of the
gospel. She was a subscriber of the EXPONENT
for many years. She died as she had lived a
true Latter-day Saint.—COM.

	THIS CITY in its growth and improvement is
fast developing into a similarity with older cit-
ies and towns in its variety of public entertain-
ments. Professional lecturers, both men and
women of the different varieties of style and
sentiments, on all popular and unpopular sub-
jects, contrive to give Salt Lake the benefit of
their wonderful knowledge "for value re-
ceived." Traveling Dramatic and Minstrel
Troupes make it a part of their programme to
perform once or more in Salt Lake City, and
almost every year this city is visited once or
twice by a circus and caravan. Thus Salt Lake
is quite up to the modern standard in this sort
of amusement. This season there has already
been quite a number of these performances of
rather a superior quality. One of the most
famous American orators, Theodore Tilton,
gave his celebrated lecture "The Problem of
Life," to an attentive and appreciative audi-
ence in the Theatre recently. He declared
many great but simple truths, and his lecture
contained much that, if practised, would very
materially benefit the condition of mankind.
We failed to see any solution of the problem of
life in his remarks, except that it is always
wisest and best to do right in preference to
wrong, and "honesty is the best policy."

	IT SEEMS that there are sometimes people
who visit Utah and tell the truth, at least a
part of it. It is really refreshing to have once
in a while a few words spoken in our favor by
those who are not of us. L. B. Fyfield, of
Kearney, Neb., who recently visited Salt Lake
with the party of editors from Nebraska, a
man interested and acquainted with education-
al matters, says in the "Daily Press" Kearney,
Nebraska:
	"The editor of this column has had the pleas-
ure of visiting the Deserrt University and oth-
er schools in Salt Lake City. His full report
upon this and other subjects, will be embraced
in a lecture. But it should be said here that
Salt Lake City is not wanting in the substan-
tials of English education. It should also be
said, that there seems to be misapprehension
of the educational opinions of Brigham Young.
He is not opposed to education. He is opposed
to a system that is confined to books. He
would have every child taught how to get a
living by "work." He would educate the
hand as well as the head. The teaching and
the studying in Salt Lake City are far ahead of
the buildings occupied by the schools. In the
states it is often the other way. Brigham
Young may be no saint. Nevertheless, there
are the schools in Salt Lake City, Mormon
schools and excellent."
	D. S. A. MEETING.—The Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation met in the Fireman's Hall, Friday
June 1, pursuant to adjournment, Mrs. Horne
presiding.
	Mrs. Horne said it was a benefit to us to


meet together from time to time to be instruct-
ed how to proceed in this branch of business to
make it a success, and what was most needed
now was machinery to work up our silk into
articles of wearing apparel. She was in favor
of working our silk at home and not sending
it east, but to give employment to those in
our own community, and by this means keep
labor and capital at home. She was in favor
of each ward having a cocoonery to give em-
ployment to those who might not be able to
work at more laborious work, and by this mean
it would enable some to be earning a livlihood
where otherwise they would be idle. The
beauty of our adornment ought to be the
workmanship of our own hands.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler endorsed the remarks
of the previous speaker. If the people would
only take hold of this business and raise the
cocoons, there was nothing to hinder us from
making it a success. Our silk was as good as
any in the world. He had received a letter
from a gentleman in the east to say that he
would procure the necessary machinery for our
present use for six hundred and fifty dollars.
Said that one pound of silk would make from
fourteen to fifteen yards of dress silk. He was
in favor of getting the best machinery. By
present appearances there would be four times
the amount of silk raised this year than any
year before. He advised those who could not
raise cocooneries to fit up a room and be gain-
ing some experience.
	The meeting was then addressed by Mr. H.
F. Slagowski, of St. George, Mrs. Robinson, of
Farmington, and others, after which a vote of
thanks was tendered Mrs. Robinson for having
made the first piece of silk dress goods in
Utah.
	Meeting was adjourned until the first Friday
in July, at 3 p. m., at this place.
