UNISON.

	Jesus has said "If ye are not one ye are
not mine." Although we may consider our-
selves true Latter-day Saints, if we are not
united in doing that which has been taught
us by those holding the Priesthood we can-
not claim to be one. Are we one in faith?
Yes. Are we one in baptism? Yes, we can
all see that alike. Do we all have faith in
the healing ordinance? A great many, if
not all of us have: we all should have.
Then in what are we not one? In worldly
goods. Have we anything that the Lord
did not give unto us? From what other
source did we derive the blessings that we
daily enjoy? Why do we have health and
life? Why are we not cripples as many of
our fellow beings are? Is it because we
have the ability to take better care of our-
selves than others have? I don't think so;
I think the Lord in His infinite goodness
and mercy gives us life health and ability
to serve Him, and to do good to others and
assist in building up and establishing His
kingdom upon the earth, for this last privi-
lege we should be especially thankful.
Then if He has done all this for us will He
not require obedience at our hands, to the
principles that are taught us from time to
time by His servants which are taught us
for our own benefit, not theirs? Are we
united on all these subjects? If we were
we would have more power to do good;
wher there is Union there is strength.
The Lord can take from us at any moment
life, health and prosperity. He can sweep
all before Him in one breath as it were,
and still He allows us to live on in obedi-
ence or disobedience, whichever path we
choose.
	Will He always be merciful? He has
said that the wicked shall be swept from
the earth; if they do not repent and serve
Him. He has said that the kingdom shall
not be given to another people. But a few
will stand firm and true to the covenants
they have made with God and each other,
and will assist in the redemption of Zion,
but we will only do it by being willing to
make every sacrifice that is necessary to
the accomplishment of that end. We may
have to do many things that are not pleas-
ant, we must not say we cannot, we must
say that we will serve God, come what
may; come life or death; and earn the re-
ward in store for the faithful. We may
have to lay aside the follies and fashions of
the world that have come into our midst.
Shall we say, I CANNOT; if we do, the Lord
will take it from us; far better do it willing-
ly and cheerfully and gain the reward for
so doing; for the Lord has said "My people
shall be willing in the day of my power."
	That we may be humble and faithful, is
the prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
	C. R.


