	R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, May 26
was very full, and one of very great inter-
est.  The president of the meeting and those
who addressed the assembly, dwelt mostly
upon the necessity of home-industry.
Counselor E. R. Snow laid before the sis-
ters the necessity of providing labor here
at home for the thousands who emigrate to
Zion every year; that they may have means
to obtain a livelihood; that this portion of
the work was as necessary as spiritual work,
or the work of building Temples, for if the
people did not become self-sustaining they
would not have the privilege of remaining
here to minister in those temples and receive
the ordinances and blessings pertaining
thereto; that while the gathering was still
being preached, it was essential that those
who gather here should be furnished with
suitable employment, that this had been
preached to the saints from the commence-
ment of settling these valleys.  It was nec-
essary now to do, and do with and for a
purpose, to take measures that would be
carried out by the people, everything was
being so arranged so as to make these
things possible, and the sisters could lend
efficient aid in these matters; she hoped
and desired to see them step forward and
show that they were really for Zion and
her interests.  Counselor S. M. Kimball
spoke on the same subject and referred to
the tannery the brethren were now trying
to establish. said she hoped every sister
who could raise five dollars would take a
share in it; for her own part she thought
this people did wrong in sending their
hides out of the territory to be worked up
when there was every facility for making
leather here in Utah, and it would be one
source of labor and remuneration to men
who had families to provide for; made ref-
erence to instances where men with fami-
lies were unemployed and needed work to
do to procure the necessaries of life.  Oth-
ers of the sisters spoke energetically on
this subject.  Many good things were said cal-
culated to give lasting impressions upon the
matter. The subject of straw manufacture,
was brought before themeeting and the time
was mostly spent in speaking upon those
things that have a bearing upon the every-
day affairs of life, and the duties and ob-
ligations of all who desire to see Zion free
and independent, and not bargained away
for a few paltry, flimsy, showy adornments
"that perish with the using," and are a part
and parcel of Satan's programme to bring
sorrow upon the people of God, and turn
them from the pathway of obedience.

