EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I do really think the women in Utah en-
joy themselves the best of any women on
the earth. The world outside, say we are a
poor down-trodden set of women, but we
know that it is not the case; we enjoy our-
selves in a way that our consciences ap-
prove, and we feel that God approbates, and
our social parties and amusements never
leave a sting behind, as those do that are
after the manner of the world.
	I wish to say a few words about the Sur-
prise Parties that we have had in this place
during the past week. The first one was
in honor of President Elizabeth J. Stick-
ney's sixtieth birthday, and took place on
the 19th of March, 1877. The sisters of
Santaquin were determined to manifest ap-
propriately the respect they felt for her.
They met at her house at 4 o'clock, p.m.
laden with picnic and presents; she was
totally unaware of any manifestation of the
kind until ushered into the room where all
were seated. She is engaged in teaching
school at Spring Lake, and we arranged
that her husband should go down and bring
her home, telling him to be very silent;
judge then of her surprise on meeting so
many of her friends unexpectedly. Sever-
al pieces were composed for the occasion,
and many handsome presents given to
her by the sisters. She responded to all
in a humble and beautiful manner, asking
God to bless us all; her husband also thank-
ed the sisters for the respect shown to him-
self and wife, and Mrs Mary Stickney also
returned her thanks for the respect shewn
to our President. Bishop Halladay was
present, who always encourages and adds
zest to all our social meetings; also Elder
P. N. Andersen, president of the Scandina-
vian brethren. Many other brethren and
sisters were there. A splendid supper was
given, and an abundance left to distribute
among the poor. The evening was most
agreeably spent, and very reluctant were
we to disperse. Evenings spent in these
kind of enjoyments prove much more profit-
able than if we wasted our hard-earned
means in visiting traveling shows or cir-
cuses, which usually leave a dissatisfied
feeling.
	The other surprise party was managed
for a birthday festival to some new comers,
who have not yet become initiated into the
ways of this country; so our sisters conclud-
ed to carry picnic to their house and give
them a SURPRISE, the evening was spent
very pleasantly, and in this way the sisters
seek to cheer and comfort each other and
to enjoy themselves without wounding the
most sensitive or refined feelings. Time
passes lively with us, good feelings exist
all around, and we feel truly thankful for
the spirit of the Gospel which is imparted
to us.


Praying for success to attend your very
valuable paper; I remain yours in the new
and everlasting Covenant.
				ELIZABETH CARTER,
							Secretary.


