WOMEN OF UTAH.

	Our readers are aware this number ushers in
the sixth volume of the EXPONENT, and we
look forward with bright anticipation to the
glorious work it may accomplish as it advan-
ces from year to year. It has been dedicated
to the work of improvement, and consecrated
by thousands upon thousands of prayers and
blessings earnestly offered up by the women
of the Latter-day Saints. It not only finds its
way into the homes of the people of this Ter-
ritory, but it has gone as a glad messenger of
salvation to some of the most remote quarters
of the globe, and has cheered, comforted and
inspired to noble purposes those who have read
and comprehended the power and blessing now
being made manifest among the women who
are represented as the offscouring of the earth.
Women who have proved themselves true to
the requirements of heaven, and willing to lay
all upon the altar of their faith. Their star is
rising, and ere long they will take a higher
rank in the annals of history. Babylonian
fashions and customs with their pride and
pomp and sham, are beneath the notice of the
saints of God; they have been called to a high-
er and holier calling; to fulfill a mission which
will stand unparalleled in woman's records.
It will require all the ability, energy, faith and
integrity that can be brought into requisition.
The thorough system for the storing of grain
against a day of famine, which has been com-
menced and is still in operation among the wo-
men of Utah, is certainly one step in advance
of any set or organization of women upon the
face of the earth. Let us not be dilatory when
such great issues are at stake. There is noth-
ing which is of more consequence to this peo-
ple than the preparation which must be made
for the terrible calamities which are to come,
and will come upon the inhabitants of the
earth. The women of this kingdom should
awake to the great responsibilities which are
resting upon them, and be sure they are doing
all that is possible to preserve themselves and
those near and dear to them, from the evils
and temptations which surround them on
every hand.
	The very fact that woman is the subject of
so much discussion at the present day, shows
that there is a reality in the work she is ef-
fecting, and it proves, moreover, that men who
are so afraid of woman stepping out of her
sphere feel that the power she holds is po-
tent. If not, why should they care? They are
fearful lest woman's spiritual nature acting in
and with her, and forming a characteristic
feature of all the movements in progression,
should so improve the condition of the sex at
large, that their power over them will be sensi-


bly weakened, consequently woman will speak
and act for herself and mothers instruct their
daughters to fill higher places than to be the
menials only, or worse than that,of wicked and
corrupt men. The women of Utah know
something of these duties and obligations,
some things have already been revealed to 
them "and more remains to be revealed here-
after." If they carry out the instructions already
given them they will become all that the most
ambitious could desire.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

