A PROTEST.

	Sister Mabel:—I hope you will excuse
me if I appear blunt, and perhaps severe,
in my manner of expressing opinions about
your "Wishes and Suggestions," which ap-
peared in the EXPONENT of May 15th. It
is my nature to be plain spoken, and I
write as I speak.
	I consider the article referred to, the most
objectionable of anything that has ever
been published in our Woman's paper. It
seems contrary to the spirit of our religion
so uncalled for, uncharitable and unjust.
	Speaking of the honey bee as being "dis-
honest" for merely following the bent of its
nature, in sucking sweets from your or-
chard and garden flowers. And as "impo-
lite," for coming through an open window
to take honey from your table. In the first
place, it is nonsense to think that the bees
harm the fruit. A curse and a blight has
come upon our fruit because in former years
we have let the surplus waste, instead of
dividing it liberally with our poorer breth-
ren and sisters. The Lord will not suffer
His people to waste the blessings which
He gives them, without being punished
for so doing; and thus their blessings are
cursed to them. In the second place, there
is no need for the bees to trouble you by
coming through the open windows. A
piece of musquito bar may easily be
stretched across the aperture, and all such
trouble will be obviated. It appears to me
absurd to think of banishing our honey
bees from the city. Why, all through the
States they are kept in and about people's
homes.
	You speak of children who admire and
ask for flowers, as "little beggers," which I
think is very ungenerous. I should take
much pleasure myself, in having the little
things toddle in to ask me for a rose; and I
should never think of refusing them so
small a thing, while to turn one away with
a harsh reply would seem cruel indeed. I
believe we should encourage in our child-
ren a love for flowers and music, and all
such things, which bear refining influences,
and tend to elevate their young minds and
draw them heavenward. Too many peo-
ple who are well-to-do, are too much afraid
of taking a little trouble or going to the
least expense to gratify other children than
their own. But this is no part of our re-
ligion and should not be the feelings of a
Latter-day Saint.
	Many people are poor, and not yet able to
have fine flower gardens. But this is no
reason why their children should not be
taught to appreciate beautiful flowers. I
would teach them that roses are expensive,
but not to be ashamed to ask for them. We
go down on our knees before the Lord and
ask Him for gifts both greater and smaller,
and why not ask favors of each other, and
grant to each other such blessings as we
have in our power to bestow?
	I should consider being called from my
work to give a child a rose, the merest
trifle. As to your being called on such an
errand twenty times a day, I think that in
this expression you have gravely exaggera-
ted.
