		TO THE SAINTS IN ZION.

	We are said to be creatures of habit.
We certainly are so to a great extent. We
are all, more or less, stamped with the dye
of education combined with the circum-
stances of early life, which constitute our
individual cast; by which we are fitted by
certain opinions and prejudices, and bound
to certain habits and customs, until we real-
ly become stereotyped in practice.
	When we enter the school of Jesus Christ,
the sooner we can divest ourselves, or become
divested of traditional cast—the sooner we
throw off the stereotyped edition of our-
selves; and like a plain proof-sheet, hold
ourselves subject to correction in all things,
and like little children, be ever ready to re-
ceive and adopt whatever tends to improve-
ment, the greater will be our attainment to-
wards that point which the Savior enjoined
on his disciples, saying "Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is
perfect." To this end, we need to culti-
vate that truthful simplicity which like a
clear sunbeam, affords an extension of vis-
ion, far, far surpassing the utmost stretch
of all the telescopes of that ostentatious
formality, which clothes the affectation of
greatness with which the world abounds,
while simplicity exhibits the burnished
gem, with all its native lustre and brilliancy
undiminished, yet improved by the sculp-
tor's art. This feature was beautifully il-
lustrated in the character of Jesus Christ
during his life upon the earth. His origi-
nal worth and self-possessed dignity re-
quired no artificial support. Sensible of His
own superiority and greatness, and for the
time being, satisfied to be what he was; He
spared himself the trouble of endeavoring
to make every body understand and ac-
knowledge it. The life of Joseph Smith,
also, was a striking illustration of the
beauty of simplicity, as all will testify who
had the honor of his personal acquaintance.
	But we are under no necessity of refer-
ring to those who once lived; we have
plenty of living examples, both of male
and female; and they are in our midst, for
the greatest and the best on the earth are
here, the opinion of the world, to the con-
trary notwithstanding. For instance, is
there a greater than Brigham Young? Is
there one on whom rests a broader fold
of imperial dignity, as recognized by the
upper nobility? (By the way we do not con-
sult the opinion of the lower courts.) And
is there a more striking example of plain-
ness and simplicity? Does not this very
simplicity in him, beget love and admira-
tion in the hearts of this people?
	I always feel to shrink from the cold
formality—that heartless affectation of dig-
nity, where thought and feeling and every
native charm, are hid beneath the cum-
brous appendages of the so called etiquette
of fashionable life. It seems too much like
penetrating beneath, or unwinding the
sixty-four thicknesses of envelop to find an
Egyptian Mummy; and when you find it,
you only find a stiff, dried up, lifeless sub-
stance, at which every feeling would re-
volt to recognize as the representative of
once breathing, noble humanity. True dig-
nity is self-supported; and real greatness is
never straining for its own exhibition. It
certainly is desirable to be divested of that
kind of tall importance which requires con-
stant propping and splicing to sustain its
position. That is too expensive, it will nev-
er pay its own passage. I think it must
be one of those things that "perish with
the using."

[Column 2]	Ever delighted with the beauties of na-
ture, I like to see nature cultivated and im-
proved but not obliterated—however eleva-
ted and refined, let nature be nature still in
every department, both in the productions
of the earth, and in all the vast varieties
exhibited throughout animate and inani-
mate existence.
	I love simplicity. I like things to seem
what they are and be what they seem. I
love the artless exhibitions of unaffected
childhood; and regard simplicity in a child,
not as a frightful extuberance—a something
peculiar to, and only to be tolerated in the
infantile season, which, like the transient
verdure of spring, must disappear before
the summer solstice and give place to more
substantial productions; but as an inherent
attribute of real goodness, that should be
tenderly cherished—a plant that should be
cultivated for all eternity, and constitute a
prominent characteristic in every season of
life. If we are pleased with its charms in
childhood, it calls forth our admiration when
delineated in manhood; for when does
greatness appear so truly great, as when
clothed with the mantle of simplicity?
	We happen to be situated at the farthest,
lower extremity of that thing, called degen-
eracy and with all the boasted light and
knowledge of the age, the human family is
blind and ignorant with regard to genuine
worth, and true greatness. They call good
evil, and evil good; and I would ask, what
of all substances on earth, is more subject to
idiotic metamorphosing and artificial mum-
myfying, than that of the human kind? We
suffer our tongues to play the truant with
our thoughts—our bodies to be weakened
and disfigured by the arbitrary power of
de[-]enerating, corrupt Babylonish fashions
—our health destroyed and our lives short-
ened through a silly and guilty perversion
of dietic observances. The laws of nature
are set at defiance, while wisdom and sim-
plicity are laughed to scorn, and common
sense looked out of countenance. We all
have been and still are trammeled with
these mockeries of life. Yes, here in Zion
we are affectionately hugging to our bosoms
the prepossessions of Gentile tuition, cares-
sing the customs of the past, which have
been instrumental in lessening the tide of
human life to its lowest ebb, and at the
same time claiming, as we really are, to be
standing on the very threshhold of the dis-
pensation of the fulness of times, and ac-
tually living in the Era of the regeneration.
	As members of the church of Jesus
Christ, we each have high responsibilities
resting upon us; and surely quite as much
diligence and faithfulness are requisite in
Zion as in Babylon—if we needed a large
amount of moral courage to stand forth
amid the scoffs and sympathies of the
world, and of our unbelieving kindred, to
espouse the Gospel of Christ; we certainly
shall require no less to fulfill all its require-
ments in the midst of those who are called
saints; for remember, "all are not Israel
that are of Israel." In order to attain to a
fulness of promised blessings, we must be
found faithful, as well as to have been call-
ed and chosen.
	In speaking to those of the middle age,
the Savior said, "all the blood that has been
shed from the time of righteous Abel" &c..
"will I require at the hand of this genera-
tion." Why? simply because the responsi-
bility of saving, or, in other words, of do-
ing the work for all the dead, from the days
of Adam, down to that time, rested upon
those to whom the Gospel was proclaimed.
If such were their responsibilities, what
must be ours, who are called to lay the
foundation of a new order of things, after

[Column 3]
the pattern of heaven—to sound the requi-
em of Gentile policies, with all their incon-
gruities and tendencies to evil; and of ev-
ery principle of disorganization and de-
generacy; to establish, or at least to assist in
introducing such customs and principles as
shall place an eternal veto on the down-
ward course of human existence; and cause
the tides thereof, both physically and men-
tally, to flow upward, until mankind in
their generations upon the earth, have be-
come immortal.
	We do not yet see eye to eye in all things
—a difference in judgment with regard to
right and wrong in many instances, will ex-
ist among those who embrace the truth
through the love of it, until our under-
standings, being stripped of the fripperies
of the past, are equally enlightened by the
power of the wisdom of God. This calls
for long-suffering and forbearance, towards
each other. But do we not too often suf-
fer our judgments to be biased by reflec-
tions from the opaque order of things with
which our feelings have been associated?
We do not like variations from the beaten
track, and sooner than pass the trying or-
deal of change ourselves—sooner than stem
the tide of fashionable folly—sooner than
stoop to conquer the degenerating power of
custom; we tamely transmit to succeeding
generations the evils which we endure; and
leave for them to accomplish what we
should do ourselves.
	My dear sisters in Zion—to you I speak:
Shall it be thus? Let us all—let us as indi-
viduals realize that a portion of this great
responsibility however small that portion
may be, is resting on us. Let us ever dare
to do right, and in doing right, let us not
be afraid or ashamed to do. What is true
greatness? In human character, usefulnessconstitutes greatness. I mean in Zion. In
the estimation of holy intelligences, the
most useful character or person, is the
greatest. The Savior said, "He that is
greatest among you, let him be servant of 
all;" or in other words he is servant of all,
"The glory of God is his works." Useful-
ness is greatness. The tallest dignity—the
most perfect and beautiful elegance and the
mont lofty sublimity are combined and as-
sociated with the greatest simplicity.
	This is a day of restitution, and when
that heavenly simplicity which character-
ized the ancient worthies, those who asso-
ciated with angels, and conversed with the
Most High, is restored, the saints of the
last days will freely participate in the same
blessings.
	This is a laboring dispensation; and as we
are instrumental in benefiting others—in
transmitting to succeeding generations,
those principles and those practices which
tend to save and exalt; in the same propor-
tion shall we be crowned with glory and ex-
altation in the courts of Eternity.
