			    (CONTINUED.)

 Beside blessing Abraham and the lineage
of this patriarchal tree, God also blessed
Sarai and said she should be called Sarah
and should bear a son, and become a mother
of nations, and kings of nations should be
of her posterity, Genesis xv chapt., 15, 16
verses.
	In the xxxii chapt. of Genesis, Jacob is
spoken of journeying with his wives, and 
the angels of God met him on his way, and
Jacob called them God's host.  And this
same Jacob was one of the main branches
of this polygamic tree.  In the same chap-
ter beginning at the 24th verse there is an
account given of Jacob wrestling with a
man, and prevailing; and Jacob knowing
this man was one of great power, would
not let him go until he should bless him;
and he obtained the blessing he desired,
and his name was called Israel, "for as a
prince hast thou power with God and with
man and hast prevailed."  And Jacob asked
his name, but he evaded answering the
question by asking another, "and Jacob
called the name of the place Peniel; for I
have seen God face to face and my life is
preserved," Genesis xxxii chapt., 30 verse.
We find again in the xxxv chapt., begin-
ning at the 9th verse, God appeared again
unto him and made the same promises to
him which He made unto his grandfather
Abraham; that he should be fruitful and
a nation and a company of nations should
come of his loins.  And the land which
God had given to his forefathers, Abraham
and Isaac should be given to him and his
seed after him.  And the Bible expressly
says he talked with God.  These testimo-
nies of the respect in which God held these
ancient patriarchs with their plural wives
abound throughout sacred history.
 Moses whom God called to lead the child-
ren of Israel out of bondage was also a man
who had plural wives.  We find in the xii
chapter of Numbers that the Lord instead
of condemming Moses for the practice,
made his power manifest unto Aaron and
Miriam who had spoken against it, and his
anger was kindled against them and Miriam
suffered severely and became leprous and
had to be shut out from the camp seven days
notwithstanding Moses cried unto the Lord
for her.  All who read this chapter may un-
derstand how dangerous it is to speak
against this practice which the Lord ap-
proves.  This is called in the Scriptures,
the sedition of Miriam and Aaron. This
instance scarcely leaves room for a doubt,
for no believer in the word of God as laid
down in the Bible would admit for a mo-
ment that God defends evil practices.
Here we have cited to you Abraham, Ja-
cob and Moses, which three witnesses an-
swer the end of the law to condemn or
justify. But this is a very interesting sub-
ject and there is so much depending upon
it that we will proceed still further with
testimony.
 In Kings xv chapter and 5th verse we 
read of David, a man after God's own heart
through whose loins a chosen seed should be
raised up, even Christ the Redeemer of Is-
rael, because David did that which was
right in the eyes of the Lord, and turned
not aside from anything that He command-
ed him all the days of his life, save only
in the matter of Uriah.  We find, also in
ii Samuel, xii chapter, 8th verse, the Lord
when reproving him for that sin said "And
I gave thee thy master's house and thy
master's wives into thy bosom, and gave
thee the house of Israel and the house of
Judah; and it that had been too little, I
would moreover have given unto thee such
and such things," showing that the Lord
considered many wives a great blessing
among other things which He had bestowed
upon him.  After the Lord had chastened
him and taken away by death the child be-
gotten in sin, He remembered the cove-
nant He had made with his father before
him saying that "inasmuch as ye do the
works of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, I the
Lord will greatly bless and multiply you."
 And thus must we confess that His say-
ings are true, when He says that His ways
are not as man's ways for instead of brand-
ing the woman with shame and casting her
off to become a victim of the vile and the
abandoned, and be dragged down to degra-
dation and death and although David had
taken her to wife after he had other wives,
yet the Lord blessed her together with
David her husband by giving them Solo-
mon whom the Lord loved; and whom He
chose above all the sons of David to sit
upon His Father's throne to reign over all
Israel, and build a Temple to the Lord.
Solomon also had many wives and we do
not find that he was condemned for any-
thing, only for marrying women of other
nations which the Lord had commanded
them they should not do.  I Kings xi chap-
ter 11th and 12th verses; he did not keep
the statutes and judgments as did David
his father, plainly showing that he was not
condemned for plurality of wives.


