NEW YORK.

 The friends of Woman Suffrage connect-
ed with the New York Society, met last
Thursday, May 24, in Masonic Hall. The
convention was called to order by Mrs. Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Olympia
Browne made a prayer, and Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage read letters of regret from
Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and others. At two o'clock
a second session of the Association was held.
The attendance was larger than in the
morning. Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
presented the report of the Committee on
Nominations, which was adopted and Mrs.
Clemence S. Lozier, M.D, was elected
President. A Vice-President was also chos-
en for each State and Territory, among the
persons selected being Lucretia Mott, Eliz-
abeth Cady Stanton, the Smith sisters of
Glastonbury, Conn., and Elizabeth Boynton
Harbert, of Illinois. Ernestine L. Rose
was elected Foreign Corresponding Secre-
tary, Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, Recording
Secretary, and Ellen Clarke Sargent, Treas-
urer. Mrs. Spencer then spoke on the work
of the Congressional Committee, declaring
that its power had never been so thorough-
ly felt as during the past year. She gave a 
minute and interesting account of her ex-
perience at the Cincinnatti Convention.
Rev. Olpmpia Brown then delivered an ad-
dress advocating an appeal to Congress for
the enfranchising of Woman, and adducing
numerous authorities in support of her de-
claration that Congress has the power to
grant the right and that Suffrage is insepar-
able from citizenship.
	Resolutions were adopted demanding the
ballot for women, with the exercise of citi-
zenship independent of sex, protesting
against the memorial from Utah to Congress
asking the disfranchisement of women in
that Territory, and asking Congress to pass
the Sixteenth Amendment, acknowledging
the right of women to vote. To the resolu-
tions were added the names of all those
Senators and Representatives who had vo-
ted for Woman Suffrage, and who are
thanked by the Association.
 Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage gave an ac-
count of the work of the Executive Com-
mittee. Having formally thanked Hon.
George F. Hoar for rising in his place in 
the Cincinnatti Convention to ask a hearing
for Mrs. Sara J. Spencer the convention
took a recess until evening.
 Mrs. Dr. Clemence S. Lozier presided at
the evening session, which was largely at-
tended.  She read an address in which she
claimed that Woman's Right to Suffrage
was natural and inalienable.
 Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake alluded to a
speech of a leading Democrat in Congress
last winter, in which he declared that no 
people had a right to resort to war so long
as they were not deprived of the ballot.
The women of this county are entitled to
rebel, as they are deprived of the ballot-box 
and politically are slaves.  The old law that
excluded idiots, criminals and women does
not seem to prevail, for she had noticed by
several paragraphs in the newspapers, that
paupers had recently voted in that State.
The practice of pardoning criminals the
day before election was a notorious one, but
she had found that the only prison from
which no one was pardoned last year was
the woman's prison at Sing Sing.  Instan-
ces were cited to show the sort of represent-
tation which was obtained in men by wo-
men. The reduction of teachers' salaries in
this City was explained. They have, she
said, no votes and no political influence. If
they were possessed of the right of Suffrage
it is not to be supposed for one instant that
they would be treated in this way any more
than the policemen. She asked for an open
field and a fair fight in this contest.
 Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage said she had let-
ters from old workers in the cause, living
in various States. The decision of the Su-
preme Court of the United States in the
case of Virginia L. Minor, remanding wo-
men back to the States for their citizenship,
was a false ruling on the face of it. The
foreign-born voter who takes up his right
to vote in a State from the United States
when he takes up his naturalization papers.
The black men were made voters by the
United States,  and Jefferson Davis and Rob-
ert Toombs are deprived of the right to
vote by the United States.  The women of
the country will exercise their right of pe-
tition, which is secure to all citizens, and
will drop their petitions for the removal of
their disabilities like hail-stones into th e
next Congess. Mrs. Gage amused the au-
dience and provoked applause by reading
an ingenious form of petition which she
proposed to use, similar to that submitted
for relieving former rebels from their disa-
bilities.
 Mrs. Blake said that in presenting her
petition she had added the explanation that
she had never borne arms against the Uni-
ted States. She thought that explanation
ought to have given her better standing
than the rebels had, and it was her opinion
that women ought to have been enfranchis-
ed, before the rebels were.
 Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker spoke of
the progress made in the Woman Suffrage
movement in Connecticut, and alluded in-
cidentally to the fact election day had been
changed from spring to fall because New
York was too handy, and her citizens were
inclined to come over and meddle with 
Connecticut politics. Connecticut had re-
cently proposed that women who were pos-
sessed of $300 may vote at municipal elec-
tions, and a vote of forty-five members of
the Legislature was cast for it.  The conser-
vative Gov. Hubbard had spoken warmly
of the proposition to relieve women of their
disabilities, and his utterances had been
commended by newspapers, which said that
if the Woman’s Rights advocates had talk-
ed in this sensible way, something would
long ago have been accomplished. “Why,”
said the speaker, “we had published all and
more than the Governor said, in 50,000
tracts on the civil disabilities of women in
Connecticut,”' From what she had heard
to-day of Gov. Robinson;  New York State
would have to look to her laurels.  It seem-
ed to her that Governor Robinson had said
some very silly things, and that he is neith-
er the peer of Gov. Hubbard in intellect or
moral perception. “You will have to choose
another, or he must do better.  Silly is the
least objectionable term that can be applied
to your Governor."
	Mr. Lee, formerly of Wyoming, said that
the enfranchisement of women in that Ter-
ritory had proved a distinguished success.
The presence of women in official life had
changed the community from a lawless
mob to a law-abiding community, and he
had not discovered that any woman had
been unsexed by reason of her acquisition
of the privilege of voting.
 Dr. Lozier announced that the Conven-
tion was adjourned to meet in Washington
in January next.--"Woman Journal.".


IT is ignorance, and not knowledge, that
rejects instruction; it is weakness, and not
strength, that refuses co-operation.


