NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. JULIA Ward Howe sailed for Eu-
rope Saturdly, May 12.
	The Cincinnatti Woman's Temperance
Union holds meetings daily which are large-
ly attended.
	A CLAIM has been made upon William
H. Vanderbilt, by Tennie C. Claffin for
over $100,000, the proceeds, she alleges,
of $10,000 deposited by her in Commodore
Vanderbilt's hands in 1871 for speculative
operations in stocks. Mr. Vanderbilt says
the claim is ridiculous.
	THE PERMANENT EXHIBITION.—On the
10th of May the opening ceremonies took
place at Philadelphia, in the presence of
President Hayes, ex-President Grant, and
other notables, with an audience of 50,000
people. Bishop Stevens, of the Protestant 
Episcopal church, offered the prayer, and
Centennial hymns, by O. W. Holmes, and
Whittier were sung. The Courts were ad-
journed; the Board of Brokers, the Com-
mercial Exchange, the Produce Exchange
and public offices were closed. The day
was observed throughout the city as a holi-
day, and the Exhibition was inaugurated
with considerable "eclat".—Ex.
	A PETITION from the women of Louisi-
ana, containing the signatures of one
thousand real estate owners and tax payers,
presented in the House of Representatives
recently, inaugurates a new movement in
Louisiana, viz: the equality of women be-
fore the law. For several weeks a number
of the more prominent ladies of the city
have been quietly organizing this new de-
parture, and the leaders allege in their pe-
tition that fully one-half the real estate in
Louisiana is owned by women and one half
the revenues are of their contribution. But
for the late hour in which the petition was 
presented, it was proposed to submit a bill
requesting our Representative in Congress
to advocate a sixteenth amendment to the
constitution for the benefit of women.—
New Orleans Democrat.


AN elevated purpose is a good and enno-
bling thing. but we cannot begin at the
top of it. We must work up to it by the of-
ten difficult path of daily duty—of daily
duty always carefully performed.


AN honest reputation is within the reach
of all men; they obtain it by social virtues,
and by doing their duty. This kind of rep-
utation, it is true, is neither brilliant nor
startling, but it is often the most useful for
happiness.


