(CONTINUED.)

	To the honorable men of the world, and
especially those who claim to be the fathers
of the people and guardians of the law, and
to divines set in judgment to deal out jus-
tice to their constituents, to illustrate clear-
ly my subject, I will call this Gospel, you
so much desire to destroy, a tree, (if you
please) and one which attracts attention
by its rapid growth; one which has made
itself a history, which you should become
thoroughly acquainted with, for it betrays
poor generalship not to understand the pos-
ition the enemy hold ; and a laborer in the
vineyard must be a novice indeed who does
not know that in order to subdue a foul
plant or obnoxious tree, it must be taken
up by the roots and not a vestige of the
root be found in the ground, or it will as-
suredly, after a season shoot up again.
	Your predecessors committed the same
error you meditate, which will lead you as-
tray; they began by disrobing the tree of
its tender leaves and branches, despoiling
it of its beauty, but finding the tree still
stood and put forth new tendrils they did
all they could against it. The branches
were broken off and scattered and the tree
felled to the earth as they supposed, to
flourish no more. This was on the eve of
the Dark Ages. The tree was forgotten
and the spot where it once stood lost sight
of, or if ever recalled alluded to as a thing

[Column 2]

of the past; but like our trees which are
broken down and the ground left barren to
all appearance, through the cold bleak win-
ter, but when the spring comes and the
sun gives his warmth and light to the earth
and all nature seems to smile, the roots put
forth again and before we are aware of it
there is the exact similitude of the old tree.
Just so with this polygamic or patriarchal
tree; the sun has arisen in his majesty and
power and poured down his effulgence of
warm light; summer has come, that is, the
light of truth has again shed forth its pro-
pitious rays and the fruits of its effects are
seen, the branches are spreading abroad and
are very prolific, bearing much fruit; and
wise presidents, judges and divines, it is
your duty before you proceed further in this
matter to analyze and know without a
doubt that the tree is bad, and as I have
been taken from among the wild branches
and grafted into the tree and grown with
its growth and strengthened with its
strength, and have searched and reflected
much concerning it, perhaps you will allow
me to assist in your researches: I believe
the necessary knowledge can be easily ob-
tained, for it is written, "Can a bitter or
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit?" Doubt-
less you are all believers in God, and some
are ecclesiastics, and as such, without re-
serve acknowledge God as the Supreme
Judge, and as He claims this earth as His
vineyard, we must allow Him to accept or
condemn as seemeth Him good, and He
plainly says that He judges a tree by the
fruit thereof.
	In doing this we take sacred history, our
Holy Bible, which all the Christian world
profess to believe in, and as we turn its pa-
ges we find it contains a few items in re-
gard to this patriarchal tree, and learn
whether God ever accepted the fruit of it.
In Gen. iv Chap., 25 verse, we find the first
account of a man having a plurality of
wives, "and he said unto his wives Adah
and Zillah, hear ye my voice, ye wives of
Lamech, for I have slain a man to my
wounding and a young man to my hurt."
The spirit of his speech does not infer tht
he considers himself guilty of any crime
except that of killing the young man. We
will look at Gen. xv chap. 1 verse, here
we find a man whom God has spoken to
saying, "Fear not Abram I am thy shield
and exceeding great reward," and in the
18 verse it reads "the Lord made a cove-
nant with Abram saying, "unto thy seed
have I given the land," &c., and as he is
thus favored of the Lord, we will trace his
history and see what transpired with him
in his day. Gen. 16 chap., 3 verse, "and
Sarai, Abram's wife took Hagar her maid,
and gave her to her husband to be his
wife," and now what will the Lord of the
vineyard do to this man who has so willing-
ly become the husband of two wives. With
him we must begin the history of the po-
lygamic tree; read from the 7th to the 12th
verses and see how an angel of the Lord
conversed with a plural wife, but perhaps
one might say she was not so much to
blame as her mistress, as she was but a ser-
vant, but the man, is he not to be brought
to an account for such a rash act, or can he
justify himself by saying "the woman gave
her to me." Let us search further and
find what is said about them. In the 15th
and 16th verses is the account of Ishmael
being born. How different was Abram from
the generality of men now-a-days, he not
only calls Hagar his wife but acknowledges
the child as his son, thus shielding him
from all reproach. In the xvii chapt. there
is an account of the Lord appearing again
unto Abram and instead of chastening

[Column 3]

him He ratifies His former covenant with
him and said "thy name shall no more be call-
ed Abram, but Abraham, for a father of many
nations have I made thee," and in another
place He says "I will make you exceeding-
ly fruitful and will establish my covenant
between me and thee and thy seed after
thee in their generations, for an everlasting
covenant to be a God unto thee and thy seed
after thee." It appears to me, by this that
all who believe the Old Testament must un-
derstand that God loved the old polygamic
tree, for he does not condemn this man, but
on the contrary says that in this fruit shall
all the nations of the earth be blessed, and
He knows the tree and its fruit.
	To be continued.


