		SMITH, THE PROPHET.

	"April 28, 1842.—At two o'clock, p. m., I met
the members of the "Relief Society," and af-
ter presiding at the admission of many new
members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come into pos-
session of the privileges, blessings, and gifts of
the priesthood and that the signs should fol-
low them, such as healing the sick, casting out
devils, &c., and that they might attain unto
these blessings by a virtuous life, and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the com-
mandments: a synopsis of which was reported
by Miss E. R. Snow.
	Prest. Joseph Smith arose and called the at-
tention of the meeting to the xii chapter 1st
Corinthians. "Now concerning spiritual gifts
I would not have you ignorant." Said that
the passage in the 3rd verse which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by
the Holy Ghost," should be translated "no
man can know that Jesus is the Lord, but by
the Holy Ghost." He continued to read the
chapter, and give instructions respecting the

[Column 2]
different offices, and the necessity of every in-
dividual acting in the sphere allotted him or
her, and filling the several offices to which
they were appointed.
	He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the church, and said that the faithful
members of the Relief Society should receive
them in connection with their husbands, that
the Saints whose integrity had been tried and
proved faithful, might know how to ask the
Lord and receive an answer; for according to
his prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere.
	He exhorted the sisters always to concen-
trate their faith and prayers for, and place con-
fidence in their husbands, whom God had
appointed for them to honor, and in those
faithful men whom God has placed at the head
of the church to lead His people; that we
should arm and sustain them with our prayers;
for the keys of the kingdom are about to be
given to them, that they may be able to de-
tect everything false; as well as to all the eld-
ers who shall prove their integrity in due sea-
son.
	He said if one member becomes corrupt, and
you know it, you must immediately put it
away, or it will either injure or destroy the
whole body. The sympathies of the heads of
the church have induced them to bear a long
time with those who were corrupt, until they
are obliged to cut them off, lest all become
contaminated; you must put down iniquity,
and by your good examples, stimulate the eld-
ers to good works; if you do right, there is no
danger of your going too fast.
	He said he did not care how fast we run in
the path of virtue; resist evil and there is no
danger; God, men and angels will not con-
demn those that resist everything that is evil,
and devils cannot; as well might the devil seek
to dethrone Jehovah, as overthrow an innocent
soul that resists everything which is evil.
	This is a charitable Society, and according to
your natures; it is natural for females to have
feelings of charity and benevolence. You are
now placed in a situation in which you can act
according to those sympathies which God has
planted in your bosoms.
	If you live up to those principles, how great
and glorious will be your reward in the celes-
tial kingdom! If you live up to your privi-
leges, the angels cannot be restrained from be-
ing your associates. Females if they are pure
and innocent, can come into the presence of
God; for what is more pleasing to God than in-
nocence; you must be innocent, or you cannot
come up before God; if we would come before
God we must keep ourselves pure, as he is
pure.
	The devil has great power to deceive; he will
so transform things as to make one gape at
those who are doing the will of God. You
need not be teasing your husbands because
of their deeds, but let the weight of your
innocence, kindness and affections be felt,
which is more mighty than a millstone hung
about the neck, not war, not jangle, not con-
tradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, pu-
rity—these are the things that should magni-
fy you in the eyes of all good men. A change
must be brought to light, iniquity must be
purged out from the midst of the Saints, the
veil will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down—they will roll down like the
Mississippi river.
	If this Society listens to the counsel of the
Almighty, through the heads of the church,
they shall have power to command queens in
their midst.
	I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the inhab-
itants of this state with the people of the sur-
sounding country, will turn unto the Lord with

[Column 3]
all their hearts, ten years will not roll round
before the kings and queens of the earth will
come unto Zion, and pay their respects to the
leaders of this people; they shall come with
their millions, and shall contribute of their
abundance for the relief of the poor, and the
building up and beautifying of Zion.
	After this instruction, you will be responsi-
ble for your own sins; it is a desirable honor
that you should so walk before our heavenly
Father as to save yourselves. We are all re-
sponsible to God for the manner we improve
the light given by our Lord to enable us to
save ourselves.


