HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Bare Neck and Arms.—An eminent physician
declared: "I believe that during the twenty-six
years I have followed my profession in this city,
twenty thousand children have been carried to the
cemeteries, a sacrifice to the absurd custom of ex-
posing their arms naked. And yet it is said the
low-neck fashion is coming in again. Do not fol-
low it.
	Mental Development.—It is coming to be well
known that mental development is the result of
properly directed physical training; that the brain
grows in size and power by the varied exercise of
the senses and the will in mechanical employments
quite as rapidly as by purely intellectual efforts in
study or otherwise. It is equally known to phy-
siologists that most men are one-sided in heads as
in their bodies. The two halves of the brain are
rarely developed symmetrically, as may be readily
seen in the "conforms," or head measures accum-
ulated by hatmakers supplying individual custom-
ers. To some extent the difference in the contour
of the two sides of the head may be due to un-
equal pressure on the nurse's arm, or to the habit
of lying chiefly on the one side while sleeping,
thus causing a permanent displacement of the
walls of the skull, but the main reason appears to
be our one-sided habit of education. Dr. Brown
Sequard observes that the study of the facts in re-
lation to the brain has led him to believe that
"each half of the brain—paradoxical as it may
seem—is a whole brain."—Scientific American.
	Failures and Health.—The effect of so much
financial trouble is, for the time, very distressing
on the health of those involved. Debts and ina-
bility to meet them depress vital energy and im-
pair physical integrity; hence we see so many tak-
ing their own lives. The brain reels, the nervous
system totters and falls, and the man is a wreck
who once was the noblest work of God. There
is little hope of the generation now on the stage
that they will ever all learn the laws of true living


so as to be able to stand up against misfortune, or,
better still, avoid it; but there is a better time
coming, when people will study the laws of life as
revealed in our bodies and minds, and then things
will be different. They will then be so instructed
that they will refuse to enter upon a course of life
calculated to end in ruin to body and soul.
	Those in business will do well to heed the signs
of the times, and to guard the body from harm by
right living, and to keep their business within the
limits of their ability, so in times of pressure to
be able to endure. There can be no great and
abiding success in business enterprises without
sound health, good bodies, firm nerves, a stomach
capable of doing its daily duty, and a nervous sys-
tem that can throw off care at night, and take
sweet, serene repose. Look well to these things,
and there will be little to fear.—Herald of Health.


