WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1877.	NO. 1.


[For the EXPONENT.
A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE,
	1st of June, 1877.

Brigham! Brigham Young! this honored name
Calls for no titles to enhance its fame;
When names are render'd mighty by good deeds,
Titles are dropt as husks that bore the seeds;
The name alone is all that need be traced,
By that the marble is in beauty graced;
And that alone an epitaph will form
To those now living, and to those unborn;

Assembled here upon this bright June day
We meet our fealty, and our love to pay;
"The June is in us," while we mingle here,
Our spirit-voice sends up a grateful cheer
To Him who dwells in yonder heaven above,
Almighty Majesty—but enthroned in love!
To Him our voices and our hearts we raise,
In adoration, and in grateful praise,
That He has given to us this wise, good man
To counsel Israel, and to lead the van;
Not on the battle field, but in the halls
Where God's theology sends forth her calls,
By Brigham's voice—the delegate of heaven,
Where all the masses can inhale the leaven;
And catch the spirit which his words infuse
The evil learn to shun—the good to choose;
And learn to be a Saint of latter days—
Learn how to live, and how to pray and praise,
And learn to think, and understand, and see,
The truth of God, that makes all people free!
Yes, glorious truth in nudity sublime,
Needing no veil around her, sacred shrine!
No chain encircling neck, or feet, or hands,
But in unfettered nudity she stands!
Yes, free from every trammel man has made,
Sublime in beauty is her form display'd,
That form erect, and towering to the skies,
God's glorious handmaid stands before our eyes!
Such truth is Liberty! her other name,
But in essential, is indeed the same!
Such is the theme that Brigham, far and wide,
Preaches to all the church—and all outside!
His voice is open and his teachings clear
To saint, or sinner, who will lend an ear;
Through life's best years this God-appointed man,
Has preach'd the gospel—God's appointed plan
To save, regenerate, and to blend in one
All dispensations that through time have run!
In one grand brotherhood of peace and love
Prepared to welcome from the realms above
Our great Redeemer to his purchased earth!
When all creation shall receive new birth!
And Christ, and God, and all the saints be one,
The warfare ended, and the vict'ry won!

Father! on this auspicious morn we humbly bear
Before thy throne, in one united prayer
Our Leader! and we ask that he
By thy good spirit may supported be;
Shield him from all that would engender strife,
Through all the coming years of future life:
While life can be enjoyed extend his span
To all the years that's meted out to man;
The evening of his days—Oh! may it close
In bright refulgence, and in sweet repose;
Like day's grand orb declining in the west
"Life's fitful fever" ended, all is rest.

