[CONTINUED]

	Nauvoo, April 28th,1842.—He then commen-
ced to read the xiii chapter of Cor. "Though
I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and
have not charity, I am become as sounding
brass,or a tinkling symbal; and said, don't be
limited in your views in regard to your neigh-
bor's virtues, but beware of self-righteousness,
and be limited in the estimate of your own vir-
tues, and not consider yourselves more righteous
than others; you must enlarge your souls to
wards each other if you would do like Jesus,
and carry your fellow-creatures to Abram's
bosom. He said he had manifested long-suf-
fering, forbearance and patience toward the
church, and also to his enemies, and we must
bear with each other's failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
	President Smith then read the 2nd verse.
"Though I have the gift of prophecy, and un-
derstand all mysteries and all knowledge; and
though I have all faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am noth-
ing." He then said, though a man should be-
come mighty, do great things, overturn moun-
tains, perform mighty works, and should then
turn from his high position and do evil, to eat
and drink with the drunken, all his former
deeds will not save him, but he would go to
destruction! As you increase in innocence and
virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your
hearts expand, let them be enlarged towards

[Column 2]

others; you must be long suffering, and bear
with the faults and errors of mankind.
	How precious are the souls of men! The fe-
male part of the community are apt to be con-
tracted in their views. You must not be con-
tracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this Society teach women how to behave
towards their husbands, to treat them with
mildness and affection. When a man is borne
down with trouble, when he is perplexed with
care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile in-
stead of an argument or a murmur—if he can
meet with mildness, it will calm down his
soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is
going to despair, it needs a solace of affection
and kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the or-
er of the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed to
lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the church
in this last dispensation; and I now turn the
key in your behalf in the name of the Lord,
and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge
and intelligence shall flow down from this
time henceforth; this is the beginning of bet-
ter days to the poor and needy, who shall be
made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on
your heads.
	When you go home, never give a cross or
unkind word to your husbands, but let kind-
ness, charity and love crown your works hence-
forward; don't envy the finery and fleeting
show of sinners, for they are in a miserable
situation, but as far as you can, have mercy
on them, for in a short time God will destroy
them, if they will not repent and turn unto
Him.
	Let your labors be mostly confined to those
around you, in the circle of your own acquaint-
ance, as far as knowledge is concerned it may
extend to all the world; but your administra-
tions should be confined to the circle of your
immediate acquaintance, and more especially
to the members of the Relief Society. Those
ordained to preside over and lead you, are au-
thorized to appoint the different officers, as the
circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in
your own tongue, do not indulge too much in
the exercise of the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage of the innocent and un-
wary. You may speak in tongnes for your
own comfort, but I lay it down for a rule, that
if anything is taught by the gift of tongues, it
is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction re-
specting the propriety of females administer-
ing to the sick by the prayer of faith, the lay-
ing on of hands or the anointing with oil;
said it was according to revelation that the
sick shoold be nursed with herbs and with
mild food, and not by the hand of an enemy.
Who are better qualified to administer than
our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts
are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and
compassion? No one. Said he was never
placed in similar circumstances before, and
never had given the same instruction; and
closed his instructions by expressing his heart-
felt satisfaction in improving this opportunity.
	The spirit of the Lord was poured out in a
very powerful manner, never to be forgotten
by those present on this interesting occasion.


[Column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS FROM
