				CONTINUED.

	No water is seen for a distance of eleven
miles, when emerging from the pine for-
est, cottonwoods and aspens with the well-
known willows give indications, and small
springs are seen on each side of the road,
whose waters uniting a short distance be-
low form a stream called the South Fork of
the Rio Virgin which supplies the inhabi-
tants of Long Valley, as this canon is call-
ed; having but little the appearance of a
valley, being in reality but a series of dales
and dells. Here is Orderville Dairy, the
stream, with simple machinery, converting
the cream into delicious butter; excellent
cheese is made here also. This is a very
pleasant, cool place in the heat of summer.
	Two miles farther down a shingle mill
carries on a thriving business; a steam saw-
mill in one of the side canons has been
busily engaged heretofore. The scenery is
delightfully romantic; cliffs of yellow sand-
stone formed by wind and rain into curious
shapes, resembling towers and lighthouses,
the tops covered with overhanging plants
and vines, and in some places the steep
cliff sides beautifully variegated with col-
ors of red, yellow, black and blue, or slate,
mingled with the bright green foliage,
forms a picture not soon to be forgotten.
Ferns, and other beautiful familiar plants
are found near tiny springs in unexpected
places. The view is rendered more en-
chanting by neat home-lik[-] dwellings scat-
tered along down a beautiful stretch of
meadow-land, reaching far up among the
hills and mountains, called Grassy canon;
small caves and holes in the rocks, are seen
in every direction, cosy homes for the
squirrels, bats, and mountain rats, the most
impudent, daring fellows, appearing queer
enough for rats, with deep shelf-like
ears, and bushy tails. The soft sand stone
in many places is almost perfectly honey-
comb, containing the nests of a species of
large Hornet, a most inveterate pest and a
most voracious meat eater; deserving some
praise however, as a fly exterminator, en-
tering the houses at early dawn, making
havoc among the house flies. Passing on
round a point a half mile, a lovely lakelet
sparkles in the sunbeams surrounded by
steep cliff like hills; on its banks a variety
of trees and shrubs form a delightful shade
for pleasure-seekers, but, with plenty of
water, cool and bright, there is none to
quench the thirst here, as its waters are to-
tally unfit to drink, being one of natures
most remarkable compounds, rapidly con-
verting everything it comes in conta[-]t with
into stone; the Indians say it was formerly
a small spring, but has gradually built it-
self up until nearly a hundred feet above
its former level; experiment proves it to be
bottomless. Two miles below this lies the
village of Glendale, a thriving little place
having a fine large grist mill, also a good
Sunday School superintended by Bishop
Seithhead who takes great interest in its
prosperity.
	Wild fruits are found in abundance in the
small canons, and thrifty young orchards
are beginning to bear; that will soon sup-
ply the inhabitants with a variety of good
fruit. Cattle are driven upon the hills
above to graze, where wide spreading grass-
lands meet the eye meadows on the hill-
tops; a spring three miles cast of the town,
is quite a curiosity, as its waters drop from
a shelving rock, extending several  feet un-
der a cliff, and flowing in a little rill from
this a short distance forms a pool of clear

[Column 2]
soft water, a convenient place for cattle on
the hills.
	Four miles from Glendale, in a cunning
nook among the hills and cliffs, is the new
and interesting town of Orderville; from
the sawmill above, to Orderville below,
about seven miles, the land on every side
is nearly all under cultivation, presenting a
most pleasing and agreeable appearance as
the road winds its way round the points,
and over the dug ways. Wheat, corn, rye,
and oats; with a variety of vegetables,
form the staple productions of Long Val-
ley.						MORE ANON.


