STORING GRAIN.

	There are many practical subjects of vital
interest now to the women of this church and
kingdom which ought to be taken into consid-
eration, and acted upon, as well as talked
about or written upon. This people are called
upon to be self-sustaining; to produce all that
is possible from the soil and from the elements,
and to manufacture all articles practicable at
home, and invent improvements in all the de-
partments of industry, which will be labor sav-
ing or time saving, and encourage all attempts
made in that direction, that will help to make
us as a people in reality what we have been so
long entreated to be, independent of Babylon;
that when she shall fall, as she inevitably
must, the Latter-day Saints may not be left
destitute of necessary comforts and blessings,
because they were not willing to hearken un-
to the voice of the Lord. But we cannot be-
lieve this will be the case. Surely the faith
the saints profess is real, and will bear the test
of endurance, though great exertions must be
made, and much self-denial practiced. After
having succeeded in establishing civilization
in a desolate country, enduring all the trials
and hardships consequent upon such an enter-
prise, this people of all people upon the earth
should be the last to go back to those who
thrust them out from their midst to perish of
hunger or cold, or in any other manner, es-
teeming them too vile to occupy cultivated
lands and homes. This people owe no grati-
tude to the world outside, that they should la-
bor and toil and accumulate means to support
Babylon. What obligations are the saints un-
der to their enemies? None save such as all
creatures owe to each other to do good for evil.
If people could only believe it, only compre-
hend it in its fullest and complete sense, they
are not even doing the good to the outside
world which they would be doing were they
to combine together and determine to be self-
sustaining. If this people will make the one con-
centrated effort they are now called upon to 
make, and not think they will do it at some
future time, but now, they will not become
slaves to Babylon and her wares, but will be
well prepared to administer to her in the day
of adversity, when "the hour of her travail"
comes. What is there now in this territory if
the great crisis which the saints well know is
impending were to come suddenly? Nothing,
except it may be in one or two parts of the
territory where home-industries have been
practically tried for a short time, but for the
majority, poverty and wretchedness, and mis-
ery. Shall we all be able to realize these great
temporal truths?
	There is every inducement offered now to

[Column 2]

raise silk-worms. It is positively demon-
strated that the soil, the climate and all
the facilities are indigenous here in Utah
to the production of silk. There has
been some tangible materials made here
from the elements in the silk line of
goods. Some of the ladies have silk dresses
manufactured from the elements of Utah; and
there are for sale at the Woman's Commission
House, scarfs, pocket-handkerchiefs, sewing
silk, floss and laces of superior beauty and
quality, all home work and home material.
Miss E. R. Snow has a bonnet made of the silk-
dress material which looks very elegant, trim-
med with the home-made black silk lace and
artificial flowers. There will soon be a variety
of homemade ribbons.
	Another subject of the utmost interest to the
women of this territory, is the saving and stor-
ing of grain. We hope none of the good sisters
have forgotten the counsel given to them by
President Young last fall on this subject. We
do not wish to relinquish OUR efforts in any
sense in this direction in the least. We feel
that it is something the sisters have been called
to do by revelation, and let each one of us
be wise and use all the energy we possess to 
save every kernel of wheat raised this season,
and if it is really necessary that men should
sell or dispose of their grain for other things;
let the Relief Societies in the different settle-
ments be prepared to buy as much as possible,
and store it away carefully using every precau-
tion to preserve it from damp and insects of 
all kinds. We hope the sisters will also be
wise in preparing suitable places for storage,
now before the harvest comes on; take into
consideration all due preparation, and do not
be afraid you will not get the grain to store for
you will. This is not a trifling matter nor a
thing of little consequence, but a work that
demands some of the best thoughts and exec-
utive ability that woman has ever been called
upon to put into action. Many of the sisters
and children have told us they intend glean-
ing: no doubt the wheat fields will be filled
with gleaners this season. If the faith of the
sisters is good, there will be no danger of their
not having large quantities of grain to store,
and remember it is food for you and your
children in the future when war, desola-
tion and famine shall come, and the saints
know it will come. Remember this is salva-
tion both in a temporal and spiritual sense,
and it is worthy the sacrifice of fine clothes
and all superfluities. May the Lord aid and
bless the sisters throughout the territory in
this noble enterprise.


