			SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co..
						May 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We held our eighth Annual Meeting May
3rd. A good spirit prevails here among
the sisters, they are one with the President
M. A. P. Hyde, to do all they can in the
good work in which they are engaged, ac-
cording to their circumstances. The re-
ports are favorable for the past year. The
teachers and other sisters take great pains
in looking after and caring for the poor,
sick and needy, of whom there are quite a 
number, according to the size of the place.
Mrs. Frantzen is energetic in her duties as
treasurer, turning everything to advantage,
so that our means increase in her hands to
the benefit of the Society.
	We are gathering and storing away all
the wheat we can, and have about one hun-
dred and thirty bushels on hand. We have
one city lot fenced, and one hundred mul-
berry trees planted, and ground prepared
for five hundred more as soon as we can pro-
cure them. In our last meeting it was ar-
ranged for the sisters to unite in companies
to make cheese for ourselves and to donate
to the temple. The sisters are also making
articles of clothing for the brethren who
work on the temple, such as socks, gloves,
quilts and other useful articles; and all are
willing to exert themselves to forward the
work of the temples; and also willing to
comply with the laws of the UNITED OR-
DER, explained to us by Elders Taylor and
Pratt, and taught us from time to time
by President Hyde.
	Bishop Olsen encourages us to go on as
we have hitherto done, as he was very
much pleased with our proceedings.
	Another small matter which may be wor-
thy of notice: about three years ago, Mrs.
Hyde proposed that every member of the
society give one egg in every month and
an account be kept separately of it to see
how much it would amount to; some per-
sons think if they cannot donate liberally,
they will not do anything, and Mrs. Hyde's
idea was to give every one a chance that
none might feel slighted in not having their
names with the workers, but that all might

[Column 3]
feel free and equal and have a lively inter-
est in the sisters work. This fund during
the last three years has amounted to the
sum of sixty-five dollars.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the Relief
Societies, and the saints whereever they
are, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
					P. E. Benson, Sec'y.
	SALEM, UTAH, April 22, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been somewhat negligent in writ-
ing to inform you that the Relief Society
of this place have responded to the call of our
beloved President Brigham Young, in regard
to storing grain. The sisters met the 11th
of January 1877, and chose a committee
to solicit donations of grain, and a treasur-
er to keep account of the same. Bro. S.
P. Christensen has given us the use of one
of his bins until we see proper to make oth-
er arrangements. A good spirit seems to
prevail among the sisters and they realize
that storing grain is essential to temporal
salvation. We are also gathering up means
to assist in building the temple in Salt Lake
City, and feel to respond to all the calls
made upon us as far as our means will al-
low.
	With best wishes for your success, I re-
main as ever, your sister in the Gospel.
			MATILDA P. KILLIAN,
						Secretary.

