RUNAWAY MARRIAGES.

	In a great majority of cases, a lady's elope-
ment is unwise, giddy, ungrateful, immod-
est, and evinces a lascivious appetite and
reckless disposition. Why should she de-
sert and distress those who have loved, nur-
tured and cherished her through all her past
years to throw herself into the arms of a
comparative stranger, who has done noth-
ing for her, and whose protestations of af-
fection have yet to undergo the first trial?
It is every way unworthy of pure and gen-
tle maidenhood to do so.
	We can imagine but one excuse for
her elopement, namely—the efforts of par-
ents or guardians to coerce her into marry-
ing some one she does not love. To avoid
such a fate, she is justified in running 
away, for no parent has or ever had a right
to constrain a daughter to marry against
her will. But where the parents are will-
ing to wait, the daughter should also con-
sent to wait, until her choice is assented to,
or she attains her legal majority. Then if
she chooses to marry in opposition to her
parent's wishes, let her quit her home open-
ly, frankly, in broad daylight and in such a
manner as shall kindly but utterly preclude
any pretense that her act is clandestine or
ill-considered. No one should be persuad-
ed or coerced to marry where she does not
love, but to wait a year or two for the as-
sent of those who have all their life done
what they could for her welfare, no daugh-
ter should esteem a hardship.
	There is some truth to be told about the
"common run" of masculine prowlers by
night, about garden walls and under bed-
room windows, in quest of opportunities to
pour seducing flatteries into the ears of
simple misses; but we have not time to tell
it now. As a general rule they are licen-
tious, good for nothing adventurers, who
would much rather marry a living than
work for it, and who speculate on the chan-
ces of "bringing the old folks round" after
a year or two. A true man would not ad-
vise, much less urge, the woman he loved, to
take a step which must inevitably lessen
the respect felt for her, and violate the truth
reposed in her by those who had loved and
cherished her all her days.—Home Circle.


