PATRIARCHAL MARRIAGE.
	The subject of patriarchal or plural mar-
raige is generally interesting to every one
especially to the outside world. Almost
the first question asked our missionaries by
the Gentiles, is "how many wives have
you got?" when they become aware they are
Latter-day Saints and from Utah.  An im-
mense interest is created when plural mar-
raige is mentioned. There are very few
that understand the principle of patriarch-
al marriage in its true light. The beauty
and consistency of it is only seen by those
that possess the spirit of the Lord; which
spirit enables us to see and understand 
things pertaining to life everlasting, and it
will comfort and cheer us in all the trials
which we are called to pass through. This
is a principle through which Satan tries us
with all his might; he shows us (that is if
we allow him to) that mole hills are about
the size of mountains, and little things,
which at other times we would pass by un-
noticed; he makes to appear very dreadful 
to bear. Blessed are the women who will
sustain this principle in the face of all oppo-
sition: Such indeed are mothers in Israel,
and true daughters of the living God.
When men and women take upon them-
selves these holy covenants, they should be
so sure that they are in the path of duty,
that all  busybodies there are cannot in-
fluence them or cause them one dark hour.
Sisters when a person comes to you and
speaks against this holy principle and tries
to discourage you in fulfilling the law given,
do not yield to the influence, but endeavor


to show to them the principle in its purity,
and how perfect should be the practice of
it. A part of woman's mission is to com-
fort and cheer those around her, especially
those of her own household; the wife
should comprehend the greater glory she
is attaining to through every wife added
to the family. The Lord fits the back for
the burdens and He blesses those who obey
Him in this principle in ways that are won-
derful; and besides if we are faithful and
keep the commandments of the Lord we
lay on this earth the foundation of eternal 
progression.
 Our religion is a practical religion, we
carry it out in our every day lives, and by
doing, our duty and living up to our privi-
liges and blessings and keeping our eye on
the mark, we help to roll on the kingdom
of God, and fulfill the mission we were sent
here to do. We should so live that when
our children grow up they may feel that
Plural Marriage is far superior to the one
wife system, and that they may not have
the prejudices to overcome that we have
had through tradition, and that our child-
ren may be as reconciled to it as the child-
ren of Jacob were. 
 Then sisters let us sustain this principle
with our whole heart and soul, for there are
noble spirits anxiously waiting to take tab-
ernacles here, and if the women in the
kingdom of God don’t fulfill the first great
law given to them, then others must be
raised up who will.
 Asking the Lord to bless all the daugh-
ters of Zion, and that all may attain to Ce-
lestial Glory who are earnestly striving for
it, is my sincere prayer.
