INTEMPERANCE.

 There is a saying which if some of our
boys would think of in the right time,
would be the source of much pleasure in-
stead of pain; it is "when sinners entice
thee, consent thou not." If they would
think of this when they are tempted to in-
dulge in intoxicating liquors, stamp it on
their memory, burn it there, so it could
never be erased, it would be the means of
avoiding a great deal of pain, sorrow and
death. Intemperance is a subject that is
agitating the public mind considerably at
present, and I think it high time some-
thing should be done to put a stop to the
sale of liquors; for if it were not very
plentiful a great many who drink now,
would not, were it not before them all the
time. When men so far forget themselves
as to indulge in the debasing habit of drink-
ing, it seems to me that they forget that
they are rational being, accountable to their
God for the deeds committed here; if they
would pause to think of the many, many
broken hearts and desolate homes, made so
by the demon drink, they would surely
think a great many times before they touch-
ed it. If they would consider how they are
debasing themselves, how low and degrad-
ed they are becoming, they would not taste
it. When a man so far forgets himself as
to let whiskey be his ruling passion, he is
lost to all the better feelings that should
prompt his heart to actions of love and
kindness. I would that I could speak with
a voice of thunder, that all might hear,
but would be repaid, could I save one per-
son from a drunkards grave. I have heard
young men when remonstrated with for
tampering with the baneful stuff, say, "Oh,
I can quit when I get ready;" but the get
ready so seldom ever comes, even were the
saying true, that it is not often stopped. It
goes on from bad to worse, till their one
aim, the one desire of their hearts is drink,
that thirst which is unquenchable is made,
and cannot be satisfied. It gets so bad after
a while that they must and will have it,
whether it comes honestly or not. And
when a young man gets so low, he is lost to
honor, to everything that elevates the hu-
man above the brute, and is indeed an ob-
ject of commiseration. Do the young men,
middle aged or any ever think, when they
take the first glass what it may lead to?
Do they imagine a drunkards home? Let
us imagine one for a moment: The wife is
waiting in tearful anxiety for her husband,
the man who vowed to love and protect her,
(and what a protection indeed;) she hears
his unsteady steps on the walk and shud-
ders for very fear of—she does not know
what, she thinks, ah! what might have
been; she knows full well that instead of
the words of love and kindness she should
hear from him, it will be oaths and curses.
The children are huddled away out of
sight in horror of the man whom they
should love and honor; who should love and
cherish them, and when he leaves thisworld should leave an honorable name for
them to inherit, but instead of that, what
a stigmatized one there is for them to bear;
one which a whole life of good actions will
hardly obliterate.
	And still men will drink, will so degrade
themselves that when they sink into the
early grave, which nearely every drunkard
finds, it is not regretted. Boys, stop and
think before you touch it. Think, if you
want your friends, your associates to love,
honor and revere you; if you want to leave
an honorable name enrolled upon the pages
of life, do not touch, taste or handle the
