NOTES AND NEWS.
			     ----
 THE  NEW England Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held their ninth annual meeting,
commencing Monday evening May 28, at
Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass.  Mrs. Ju
lia Ward Howe the president of the Asso-
ciation being absent, Mr. Henry B. Black-
well called the meeting to order and laid the
business of the Convention before the as-
semblage.  Mr. I. T. Fields in the open-
ing appropriately, speech alluded to Sidney
Smith as being one of the earliest and
strongest champions of women’s rights.
Mrs. Lucy Stone in her remarks also allud-
ed to Sidney Smith, to whose disinterested
labors women all over the world were in-
debted.  She announced that Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore and Wendell Phillips would be
among the speakers at the convention on
Tuesday evening.  The business meeting
began in the Meionaon Tuesday morning,
with an audience of about five hundred.
The first business was the report of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Mrs. Lucy Stowe read the report, which
stated in substance that the treasury had
been replenished through means raised by
a Festival and contributions so as to accom-
plish the work of the year without a debt.
 Many excellent speeches were made, and
reports from different societies brought for-
ward, appeals from various places to the As-
sociation in convention assembled, etc.  We
have not space to publish, or scarcely touch
on these speeches from distinguished people
of the world engaged in this public work,
but will give one paragraph from the speech
of Mrs. Mary A. Livermore concerning
Utah, which will show how falsely this
people are placed before the public, and
will call forth an article or two upon this
subject in our next issue.
 "In Utah women vote.  But both men
and women are ticketed, and receive from
the authorities a ballot corresponding with
the number they bear.  It is fair to say
that the women do not want to change them.
If men want women who always do exactly
what the men tell them, you will find them
in Utah.  These women command my sym-
pathy and respect.  They obey their reli-
gious convictions of duty.  The graveyards
of Utah are filled with women who have
died broken-hearted in obedience to their 
consciences; women who have given up
their husbands to other women because
they thought it to be their duty.”


Rebecca Andersen, of Seneca Falls N.
Y., is the oldest old maid in the world.
She is one hundred and twelve.


