			BY JANE E. MOLEN.

	Our home is situated on a sloping hill.
Just above us on the south west is the re-
mains of a once active crater, which is now
the grave-yard of Laie. South is a beauti-
ful plain with sugar-cane under cultivation.
South east, east, and north east of us, roar-

[Column 2]
ing continually, is the great Pacific Ocean.
North and north west are mountains and
hills covered with green shrubbery, always
green, summer and winter. It is the most
magnificent scenery I ever beheld. The
most beautiful shapes and forms of trees
growing out of rocks; water gushing out of
the top of a mountain so high and perpen-
dicular that you can scarcely believe your
own sight. We are on a knoll with a pick-
et fence around the houses of Elders Wool-
ley, Lambert, Laie store and Plantation
House. The natives build their houses of
grass in the shape of a nice hay stack.

	I would be pleased to write a description
of the Sandwich Islands, had I seen more of
them, and felt myself competent; but I
think it would take a person with excellent
language to portray the beauties of this is-
land scenery; how I would like to be able
to describe it.
	We had the pleasure of a short, but very
pleasant visit from the Queen on the 28th
of February. She with her suite comprising
eighteen or twenty, mounted on fine horses
came dashing up to the door, which was
the first to give us warning of their in-
tended visit, there being some mistake in
the sending of the notice. Her business
was to organize Relief Societies. The peo-
ple were called together and she made a
speech, showing the necessity of such or-
ganizations, that the wants of the sick and
destitute might be administered to, and
thereby preserve the lives of many of the
nation. After the close of the meeting she
took supper with us, and continued her
tour around the Island. Queen Kapiolani
is a fine looking woman, pleasant and agree-
able in her manner, a little above medium
size, rather fleshy, very qnick and active,
being able to mount her steed without as-
sistance.
	The Elders here are well and in good
spirits. The mission is progressing slowly.
The term used by our Savior would well ap-
ply to this people "forgive seventy times
seven." Our annual conference here is
over. We have had an excellent time, all
our missionaries being here and all feeling
well. We look forward to our conference
with much pleasure as we can all meet and
enjoy the society of each other for a short
time. Our elders enjoy the spirit of their
mission. They have given good counsel to
the Saints here, and all seemed to enjoy it,
and want to try to do better in the future,
and live nearer to the Lord. In looking
over the congregation, I compared them
with our saints at home. I could see their
faces light up and fairly glow with the good
spirit as they listened to the counsels of
our Elders. The elders have been appoint-
ed their fields of labor as follows: Elders
R. G. Lambert, and H. S. Woolley to labor
here on the plantation in connection with
President Pack; Elders H. P. Richards and
J. S. Woodbnry on Hawaii; Elders S. M.
Molen and Jacob Gates on Maui, Molokai,
and Sanai; Elder James Keeler, Kanai and
Oahu.
	Her Majesty the Queen Kapiolani, at-
tended our Island conference, held a[-] Hono-
lulu on the first day of April-and appeared
to be much pleased with the preaching.
Elders Richards and Pack had an interview
with His Majesty the King, on the second,
and presented him with some Church Books
which Elder F. A. Mitchell sent him. He
received them very kindly and appeared
pleased with the books. He inquired after
his subjects in Utah, appeared anxious
about their welfare.

	LAIE, OAHU, April 17, 1877.


