	MARRIOTTVILLE, WEBER COUNTY,
					April 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing your deep interest in all that
concerns the welfare of Zion, and especial-
ly in the efforts of the sisters to carry out
the counsels given through the servants of
God, we send to you a report of one of our
Relief Society meetings, held at the resi-
dence of Elder John Marriott, March 20,
1877.
	The meeting having been called to order
by the president, Mrs. Anne Bickington, the
Scandinavian sisters present engaged in
singing in their native tongue; after prayer
and singing by the choir, Mrs. Nancy M.
Tracy offered some resolutions for the ac-
ceptance of the meeting in regard to do-
nating for Temples, storing grain and oth-
er public purposes. A committee was ap-
pointed to see after these matters. From
the reports of the visiting teachers, it ap-
pears that a good feeling prevails and a
willingness exhibited to further all good
works, and to build up the kingdom. They
report the receipt of six dollars and twenty-
five cents for the Temple fund, and one dol-
lar and sixty-five cents for the society fund
for the past month. The sisters present at
the meeting bore testimonies to the truth
of the work were engaged in as Lat-
ter-day Saints, expressing their determina-
tion to carry out the counsels of the Priest-
hood, and to adhere to the resolutions
adopted at the meeting.
	Bro. John Marriott encouraged the sis-
ters to persevere in storing grain as they
had been counseled to do. The following
sisters are the committee appointed to re-
ceive the grain of Lynne and Marriottville.
S. Thomas, B. C. Christopherson, M. Gates,
M. Horrop, E. Salisbury, E. Marriott, and
A. Tracy.

[Column 2]
	The meeting was adjourned to meet
again at the expiration of four weeks, at
Lynne.
	Anne Bickington, President;
	Lydia Gates,			}	Counselors.
	Nancy Naomi Tracy,	}
	Catherine Parry, Secretary.

		PINE VALLEY, April 29, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our president and all interested in our
Relief Society, desire to unite their testi-
mony with that of other Societies, and ex-
press their pleasure in carrying out the
counsel given to the different societies. A
good spirit prevails among the sisters, and
a united effort to carry out the instruction
of President Young in regard to laying up
grain; we commenced this season and cal-
culate if the Lord blesses us with crops an-
other year, to do more; we donated largely
to the St. George Temple, and truly feel to
rejoice that we have a Temple completed
so near us, it being only thirty miles from
this place. The young ladies have a Re-
trenchment Association; they hold their
meetings twice a month and enjoy them-
selves in the good work in which they are
engaged.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
