HOME AFFAIRS.

	SILK RAISING.—Brother Thomas W. Win-
ter has established a cocoonery in the Fifth
Ward, for the purpose of raising silk worms
and producing silk. The room is 16 x 18 feet,
and he has planted out a quantity of mulberry
trees. He calls the establishment "The Fifth
Ward oocoonery.
	WE RECEIVED a call from O. T. B. Williams,
Editor "Nebraska Atlas," and L. B. Fifield, re-
gent of University, State of Nebraska, and editor
of the paper, Kearney; these gentlemen ex-
pressed themselves pleased with the city and
its surroundings, and anxious to ascertain the
truth in regard to the institutions and improve-
ments here.
	GEN. TOM Thumb and wife gave their char-
acteristic entertainment in the theatre Mon-
day and Tuesday, May 28 and 29, Miss Susie
Spencer was the recipient of a Benefit at the
theatre Saturday evening, May 26; she arrang-
ed for the occasion a varied and interesting
programme. The comedy of "Pet of The Pet-
ticoats," songs, music, and the balcony scene
from Romeo and Juliet.
	THERE was a free excursion to Lake Point
tendered to all the Sunday School Superin-
tendents and Teachers in Salt Lake City, on
Thursday, May 24th. About 550 persons ac-
companied the excursion and enjoyed them-
selves in various ways. Olsen's and Wetzel's
bands discoursed sweet music. President
John W. Young, Elder George Q. Cannon and
a few friends with some newly arrived Sicilian
brethren and sisters, went over in the after-
noon to participate with the company in their
amusements. These Sicilians display unusual
musical talent, vocal and instrumental.
	A FINE DISPLAY of military on Decoration
Day on the streets of Salt Lake, and from
thence to Camp Douglas; programme for the
day: Prayer, dirge, orations, music, poem and
recitation by Mrs. M. M. Bane; we were ex-
ceedingly pleased to see one lady's name on the
list of proceedings though we had not the
pleasure of hearing her. Women did much to
alleviate the sorrows and sufferings of the brave
men who were wounded and who fell in the
late war and they should have the privilege of
commemorating these sad events, more nobly
than dressing for the occasion and st ewing
flowers.  This is a very beautiful tribute, but
words will live in the hearts of those who hear.
	ON WEDNESDAY May 27, a meeting con-
vened in the Relief Society Hall for the Organ-
ization of the young ladies of the Sugar House
Ward, Mrs. S. B. Gibson, president of the Re-
lief Society of the Ward presided. Bishop
Wm. Smoot, and E'ders Mc Ghee and Robson
were present. Miss E. R. Snow, assisted by
Mrs. Gibson attended to the organization.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. Gibson,
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. P. Woodruff, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. L. A. Wells, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
and M[-]s E. S. Barney. Mrs. E. H. Whitney
sung a song of Zion. Bishop Smoot and Elder

[Column 2]

Robson made appropriate and suggestive re-
marks. We can but congratulate the Society
of that ward on the construction of a good
house, well-finished and partly fitted up.
	THE GENERAL Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday May 26, was interesting and largely
attended. Mrs M. I. Horne presided. Miss
E. R. Snow spoke upon home-industry and
said it was THE mission of the sisters at the
present day. It was essential to the best inter-
ests of Zion that the sisters should be energet-
ic and persevering in this noble enterprise.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to St. George and the Tem-
yle. Mrs. Irons, president of the Relief Socie-
ty at Moroni, Sanpete County, gave the sisters
some items in regard to the state of the Relief
Society of that place, and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the Latter-day work. Mrs. A. Tuft,
Mrs. E. S. Barney, Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough
and Mrs. W. East, each spoke upon subjects
connected with the work.
	THE WOMAN'S Commission House has a
large supply of lady's shoes, manufactured in
Brigham City, for home markets, also a very
great variety of beautiful artificial flowers,
made by the sisters in Brigham City and Ne-
phi. We think that it would be advisable for
some of the sisters to make up some lady's and
Misses underclothing, and children's suits, and
put them into the Woman's Store for sale.
There are many of these things made up in
the East and brought here and sold, when our
sisters might have the profit of the making.
Another article which is brought here ready
made, is comforters for beds. There are many
who buy these articlas for winter, and for men
going to the mines and cañons, or for common
use, comforters made of the material manu-
factured here, linsey, or something strong,
would certainly be saleable. These arti-
cles a[-]e sold in the stores here all the time,
made of thinner material, calico or colored fac-
tory.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—This number is
the commencement of Volume Six. The EX-
PONENT is gaining a name and place as well as
influence; and ranks creditably with other
periodicals. No pains is spared to adapt it to
the wants and interests of the people. The ar-
ticles are selected and arranged with the great-
est care that nothing should appear to shock
the most delicate organization. We have been
accused of throwing articles aside. We do;
we should be sorry for our readers if we did
not; and for ourselves, we must answer to God
and our own conscience for what we publish.
Our desire is to make the paper the EXPONENT
of true principles and suited in tone and
phraseology to the condition of the people
whose interests we represent. The women of
Utah occupy an important position, and one
which all the world is waiting to see analyzed.
Then it behooves them to be wise, and move
cautiously, and it is better to be a little slow in
making statements, or advancing ideas, than
like too many of the leading women of the
day, have to retract, or retire from the encoun-
ter signally defeated. The Mormon women
will lead the van in the questions which are
being agitated among the sex, whatever the
world may think to the contrary. Many are
afraid to speak and talk of charity, but it is
high time to speak, and write and act wisely
and well. Therefore we would say to our pa-
trons, write your best thoughts lay before the
readers of the EXPONENT your best devised,
and most economical schemes for progression
in all that pertains to temporal and spiritual


salvation. Prove to our enemies that we have
something superior to them, something dearer
than all the glitter and tinsel of sentiment the
world possess. It is to the best interest of
every woman in Israel to sustain the EXPO-
NENT, for it gives them a power that is being
felt far and wide for good. Elders have said to
us that when out performing missionary labor,
the EXPONENT in their hands was an ef-
ficient help, and accomplished silent mission-
ary work more potent than they could do by
preaching long and loud.
	A SPECIAL CONFERENCE in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle in Ogden City, for the more thorough
organization of that Stake of Zion commenced
on Saturday morning, May 26, continuing
three days. President Brigham Young, his
counselors J. W. Young, and D. H. Wells and
several of the Twelve were present on the
stand with the presiding men and bi[-]hops of
that vicinity. Some very powerful and thril-
ling discourses were delivered, and most earn-
est appeals were made to the people by Presi-
dent Young and others who addressed them,
to live their religion more truly and consist-
ently and become united in temporal matters,
so as to be self-sustaining universally here in
Utah, and thus be enabled to control both la-
bor and capital, and preserve the interests of
Zion from being under the control of wicked
men who would rob the people of those rights
now in their power to retain for themselves.
President Young did considerable preaching
himself on Saturday afternoon, and Sunday
morning and afternoon. He explained the
true philosophy of life, which reached from
eternity to eternity, and how it would be pos-
sible to prepare to be in the presence of God
and receive the visitations of angels. That
the hypothesis the saints believe in is the
philosophy which enters into all truth, and all
knowledge, and embraces all intelligence until
they become as Gods; the course is onward and
upward, and God will fight the battles of the
saints, but they must purify and prepare them-
selves, by living in strict accordance to the
government of God. In our next we will give
more items from the discourses delivered in
Ogden by President Young, and others of the
Presidency and Twelve, to which we listened
with the most earnest attention and satisfac-
tion. The Spirit of God was poured out in
rich abundance manifesting itself to all who
understand its influence.


