EDITORS EXPONENT:

	I have often felt impressed with a great
desire to write my feelings and the thoughts
that pass through my mind while medita-
ting on the work of God, and as I am a 
great thinker I have been led of late to con-
template the glorious and most wonderful
workings of the Almighty, and it causes
my heart to rejoice that I live in this day
and hear the servants of God talk in plain-
ness of the things which pertain to our
eternal salvation and exaltation in the
kingdom of God; they speak with power,
and it thrills my soul with joy while listen-
ing to their teachings, and I feel willing to
put away all my selfishness and think, Oh!
that I could live by every word that pro-
ceedeth from the mouth of God through
His servants.
 The cares and duties of a large family
prevent me from filling responsible posi-
tions as some of my sisters are so faithfully
doing, but I can fill a place which calls my
attention daily and hourly and which I can-
not neglect without feeling remorse of con-
science. It is our binding duty as mothers
in Israel to watch over our little ones to
keep them as much as we can out of dan-
ger. Those precious gifts which God has
given me, words cannot express the anx-
iety I feel regarding their welfare, especial-
ly those who are old enough to be taught
those principles whicn will help them to
fill honorable places in society, and become 
useful wives and good mothers. Our child-
ren are our hope, and on us depend their
future happiness in life. Keep them from
the company of those who would lead them
astray; it requires patience and a prayerful
heart, and it is no easy task to keep our
children in the paths of virute; we must
pray for strength from on high to enable
us to fill that high and holy calling, and
great will be our joy if we are permitted to
have those jewels in a heavenly sphere,
throughout the endless ages of eternity;
then will it not reward us for all our watch-
care and trouble, our toil and sorrow, if we
can accomplish this, by the help of God?
although we may work with fear and trem-
bling, if we save our sons and daughters
we will have accomplished something great.
Home and children are a blessing to wo-
man, and it should be her highest ambition
to set a good example before them especial-
ly as it falls more on the mother to train
them when the father is absent from the
family circle. The mother should call her
children together and bow in humble pray-
er for the light of the holy spirit to lead
them in the path of duty, this will give
that mother strength that she may endure
faithful while performing the most arduous
tasks which devolve upon her; she who is
sometimes so tired, and weary and would
be glad of an opportunity to retire to some
place of solitude for rest from the noise
and bustle which seems almost distracting
and unendurable at times.
						S. L. C.

 How little woman's labor is appreciated
by the husbands and fathers, they shrink
from some of their most important duties,
and leave too great a responsibility upon the
mother, and apparently can enjoy ease and
comfort elsewhere, while their sons are
breaking the Sabbath day, or doing that
which grieves a mother to the hearts core.
Oh fathers in Israel, when will you see to
this most essential of duties? the Lord re-
quires this at your hands as well as at the
mother's and great will be your condemna-
tion in a day to come if you neglect it. I
beg pardon if I have used too much free-
dom of sentiment, but "out of the abund-
ance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
We must be faithful to our calling, and
when we have finished our work and our
bodies are worn out and laid low in the
dust, our names will be held in sweet re-
membrance by those who are dear to us,
although they seem not to appreciate us
while we are with them.
 I do not feel capable of teaching those
who are much more advanced in knowledge
than myself; but you, with me my sisters,
can teach our daughters to keep good com-
pany, the company of good men and wo-
men, those superior to themselves in good-
ness. The education of household duties is
just as essential for our girls, as knowledge
of books; we are in our houses more than
half of our existence and it is the house-
hold surroundings which affect most large-
ly the happiness or misery of life. If our
daughters learn the art of making home a
desirable place for their husbands and child-
ren, if they acquire the way of governing
quietly, if they have to tact to observe or-
der, and practice cleanliness, for cleanliness
is next to godliness, then they know how
to make a little heaven at home; how to re-
turn the affection of their children. To
have home smiling with comfort and cheer-
fulness, is a happy solace to a weary moth-
er. 
	God has blessed me exceedingly; may
His blessing rest upon all, is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel.

