EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Feeling a deep interest in the silk cul-
ture, and having been accustomed to the
business from my earliest childhood, I 
thought if I could say a word to encourage
those of my sisters who are starting out in
this branch of Home-Industry, I should be
most happy.
	In the first place I will say that I am sat-
isfied by experience, that Utah is quite as
favorable for silk raising as Old New Eng-
land, my native land, and in my young
days there was a great deal made there.
Beside this, it has the advantage of being
a healthy occupation for young or old. I
would say to the young married sisters,
have mulberry trees set out; if you will do
this, in a few years you will have some-
thing for your family to depend upon, which
will supply you with many of the comforts
of life, without applying to your husbands
for means, and will help to make you inde-
pendent in little things and perhaps able to
render assistance in many ways. I have 
heard it remarked, and very truly that 
President Young lives in an atmosphere
above us; I know if we had carried out


his counsel in regard to setting out mul-
berry trees, as well as in everything else,
we should be in a very different condition
to-day. The women of Utah are different
from many of those in the world. We
wish to be helpmeets to our husbands in
very deed. We are willing to spend our
time and the talents, ability and strength
which God has given us in doing good.
	I think we should cultivate that noble
principle of self-reliance that our Father
has implanted in our bosoms, and also in-
struct our children that if they have any-
thing they must earn it, and in time to
come they will bless us for it.
	We feel that we are a blessed people in
Manti, in having the privilege of assisting
to build a Temple in our midst. The sis-
ters here are determined to do what they
can in that direction. We have a fine large
meeting house in process of erection, un-
der the direction of our esteemed Bishop,
J. B. Maiben, who is ever alive to the
wants of the people and willing to encour-
age them in every good move and work.
	Wishing success to the Exponent, I will
close for the present.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
