[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.. Singing Mlothers at the Relief Society General Conference EATURED at the two general sessions of the Relief Society conference, April 4, 1940, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, were the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from four nearby stakes—Kolob, Provo, Sharon, and Utah—composed of 261 singers.
They were directed in turn by their respective stake Relief Society choristers, Zina C. Condie, Mae B. Young, Melba P. Pyne, and Edna P. Taylor, and accompanied by Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist.
Their beautiful rendition of five selections, Holy Redeemer by Marchetti, The Lovely Flowers and My Redeemer Lives, both by B. Cecil Gates, O Morn of Beauty by Sibelius, and How Lovely Are the Messengers by Mendelssohn, was an outstanding part of the April conference.
These singers, their capable directors, their respective stake Relief Society presidents, Hannah M. Clyde, Inez B. Allred, Eva G. Gillespie, and Edith Y. Booth, and other officers and members who assisted in arrangements for this appearance are highly commended for their wholehearted response to the General Board's invitation, and for their achievement despite the relatively short intervening time available. To them in which to prepare for such an undertaking. Singing Mothers in the Stakes and Missions HE following reports and accompanying pictures recently received at the office of the General Board from stake and mission Relief Societies in various parts of the world give some indication of the widespread interest in local Relief Society choruses of Singing Mothers, and of their activities.
Ranging in size from small ward choruses to large groups representing stakes and missions, they are singing at their regular Relief Society meetings, ward Sacrament meetings, ward, stake, and mission Relief Society conferences, special concerts, radio broadcasts, and general community musicales and celebrations.
Several groups are represented here only by pictures or by narrative reports; others have submitted both pictures and interesting accounts of their activities.
Among the pictures is an enthusiastic group representing a mission branch in Norfolk, Virginia, where a Relief Society was organized only SINGING MOTHERS OF MARICOPA STAKE (MESA, ARIZONA) a year ago. The states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada and Utah are also represented among the pictures and reports, as well as Colonia Juarez in Mexico, and faraway Hawaii and New Zealand. Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City) THE Bonneville Stake Singing Mothers, a chorus of about 75 women, directed by Olive N. Rich, sang on the regular Church radio program, over KSL, Sunday evening, March 17, 1940. On this occasion, the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, Elder Bryant S.
Hinckley delivered a fine tribute to the Relief Society, and a review of its history, purpose and scope.
This address was published in the Deseret News, Church Section, March 23, 1940. New Zealand Mission LVA T. COWLEY, supervisor of women's auxiliary organizations in the New Zealand Mission, wrote that the Singing Mothers in this mission were featured at the Hui Tau (conference) held March 22-25, 1940.
Held at Nuhaka, about 400 miles from Auckland, the mission headquarters, Mrs.
Cowley stated that the representation from various parts of the mission was good even though gasoline is very expensive and its sale ls ordinarily restricted to allotments sufficient for local travel only. At this gathering, Relief Society quilts and other handwork were on display, the meetings for Relief Society officers were reported to be splendid, and the success of the Relief Society pageant and the Singing Mothers was outstanding. Both European and Maori members of the Church participated in the plans and arrangements for the Hui Tau and in the conduct of the varied program of meetings, musicales, and _recreational functions. Pare Takana is president of the Relief Society in this mission. Benson Stake (Richmond, Utah) OMMEMORATING the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, a chorus of sixty Singing Mothers presented the B. Cecil Gates cantata, Resurrection Morning, on the evening of March 17, 1940. The chorus was assisted in the beautiful rendition of this cantata by a guest orchestra. On this occasion, the membership arch of each ward was on display, and the symbolism of each was explained. "They were all lovely and expressed a great deal of individuality and thought," wrote Myrtle S. Pond, stake Relief Society secretary, who submitted this report. Lulu E.
Johnson is president of the Relief Society in this stake. Parowan Stake (Parowan, Utah) ELIEF Society stake president, Barbara M. Adams, submitted the accompanying picture of Relief Society singers of the Enoch Ward of this stake, and their accompanist.
These singers represent three generations of the same family, and they all live in the Enoch Ward. Lillian A.
Esplin is president of the Relief Society in this ward. THREE GENERATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS IN ENOCH WARD Left to right: Grace J. Smith, accompanist; Maude L. Matheson, grandmother, alto; Alice Stevens, granddaughter, second soprano; Violet M. Stevens, daughter, first soprano. The Cedar City First Ward held a special musical program and luncheon on October 31, 1939, which was arranged for by the ward officers and the Singing Mothers.
Each member of the Society who served as a hostess sold tickets to three friends, and provided the table, setting, and luncheon for her group. Belle Armstrong, secretary of the ward Relief Society, wrote that this function, held on an unprogrammed fifth Tuesday in the month, was very successful, "bringing joy and happiness to those whose souls are hungry for a friendly handshake and a little social contact outside their homes," and also providing funds with which the Society purchased its supply of the new Relief Society Song Book. In fact, many members unable to participate otherwise, sent contributions for this fund. Mary Jane Bulloch is president of the Cedar City First Ward Relief Society. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyoming) A CONCERT, well attended and enthusiastically received, - was presented in December, 1939, by the stake Relief Society chorus, comprised of forty Singing Mothers. The concert was under the direction of the stake Relief Society chorister, Lettie D. Campbell; Chester Hill conducted the singers.
This report came from the stake Relief Society secretary, Lucille Call; Arvilla Hyer is Relief Society president of this stake. Montpelier Stake (Montpelier, Idaho) "THE picture on the next page shows the Relief Society chorus of Montpelier Stake as they appeared at a Relief Society convention, December 3, 1939.
This chorus is composed of seventy-five Singing Mothers. The director, Angie C. Amold, SINGING MOTHERS OF SAN LUIS STAKE (MANASSA, COLORADO) . Ar GME! SINGING MOTHERS OF MONTPELIER STAKE is at the extreme left in the picture. As an expression of love and appreciation for her, the chorus surprised her with a Christmas party on December 20, where she was presented with a beautiful, fitted traveling case. Romina Perkins is Relief Society president of this stake. Hawaiian Mission ROSCOE C. COX, president of the Hawaiian Mission, submitted the accompanying picture of Singing Mothers of the Oahu Stake and Hawaiian Mission, and an interesting narrative report of their recent conference, March 16-19, 1940, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Living up to the well-earned reputation of the organization, the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission and the Oahu Stake played a major part in the recent joint conference of the stake and the Japanese and Hawaiian Missions. General Authorities of the Church who attended the conference were Elder Charles A.
Callis of the Council of the Twelve and Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards. Sister Callis accompanied her husband. "The opening function of the conference was a song contest, bazaar, and dance held the evening of March 15, 1940, under auspices of the Relief Societies of the Oahu stake and Hawaiian Mission. Singing Mothers from seven wards of the stake and from three outlying islands of the mission participated in this contest.
Kalihi and Kakaako wards won first and second place, respectively, for the stake, while the Keaukaha branch of the Hilo district, Island of Hawaii, won first place for the mission.
More than 1,000 individuals attended this entertainment. "The Relief Society session of the conference was held Saturday forenoon, March 16, and was attended by 411 persons.
Singing by a large group of Singing Mothers from the stake and mission was a special feature at this meeting. The chorus was conducted by Lilly Cummings Deering with Inez Waldron and Violet Awai as accompanists. Eliza N. Salm, president of Oahu Stake Relief Society, conducted the meeting and gave the address of welcome. Atmada B. Cox, president of-the Hawaiian Mission Relief Society, introduced the theme, "Mother, Home and Child."
Talks on the three phases of this theme were given by Piilani K.
Needham of Hawaii, Lizzie Aipoalani of Kauai and Mary Tyau of Honolulu. Both Elder Cal- ight: NGING MOTHERS OF -NORDLK, VIRGINIA, EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION Left: SINGING MOTHERS OF JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO) a Upper Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF BEAR LAKE STAKE (PARIS, IDAHO) Lower Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF PALMYRA STAKE (SPANISH FORK, UTAH) NOTES FROM THE FIELD 415 SINGING MOTHERS IN HAWAII AND CHURCH OFFICIALS AND RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right—Lydia Fernandez; Lydia Cummings, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; President and Mrs. Hilton A. Robertson, Japanese Mission; President Roscoe C. Cox, Hawaiian Mission; Armada B. Cox, president Hawaiian Mission Relief Society; Nohea Kopa, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eliza N. Salm, president, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards, Grace Callis; Elder Charles A.
Callis of the Council of Twelve, Romania Hyde Woolley; Annie Ha'o, secretary, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eva Parker and Annie Mahelona, members of Relief Society stake board. At the extreme right of the second row is Lilia Wahapaa Kaneihalau of Waimea. Kauai, reputed to be cither 103 or 107 years old, a faithful member and leader in church work since young womanhood, who is still active physically and mentally.
Just behind her, left to right, are Lillie Cummings Deering, director; Inez Waldron, pianist; and Violet Awai, organist for the Singing Mothers, this session, and Sister Callis also spoke. "A special roll call was made of the mothers present who had had six or more children. As indicated by the following table, fifty-three mothers responded, and the number of chil- -dren per mother was reported as ranging from six to twenty-three. No. Of Mothers _—_—No. Of Children 6 HBP e Bw NW NR ANU ANwWV ry vv reported that his mother had given birth to twenty-seven children." Nevada Stake HOPE BROADBENT, counselor to Anna M. Aljets, Relief Society president of Nevada Stake, wrote the account of the first public concert of the Singing Mothers of this stake, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "On the evening of December 3, 1939, the Singing Mothers of Nevada Stake gave their first public concert in the Stake House in Ely, Nevada, under the direction of their conductor, Alta Yates.
This chorus is composed of forty Relief Society women. "The program consisted of wellselected choral numbers, two beautiful vocal solos, a double quartet, and an a capella trio. Oh, Sleep, My Baby, sung by the trio, was comlis and Bishop Richards addressed "One man, Moses Ekau of Kauai, NOTES FROM THE FIELD posed by Ruby Stoker, director of the Singing Mothers of Rexburg Stake, Idaho, who is the mother of Alta Yates, director of the Nevada Stake chorus. In harmony with the spirit of the music, Ramona Wilson read Edwin Markham's How the Great Guest Came. "The concert was exceptionally 417 mas musicale, sponsored by a local club." California Mission ELLE L. MACDONALD, Relief Society president of the California Mission, wrote recently of the recital by the Singing Mothers at Monterey.
Because of this successful appearance, they were invited to SINGING MOTHERS OF NEVADA STAKE well attended and so well received that the Nevada Stake Singing Mothers were extended an invitation to participate in a community Christpresent a concert in San Jose.