[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: University of Utah Summer Session]

University of Utah Summer Session

PROGRAMS of special interest to Relief Society women are scheduled for the 1940 summer session of the University of Utah.

An Institute of Education for Family Life will be held from June 17 to 21, inclusive. The program for the week has been arranged by the local committee (Winifred Hazen, chairman) in cooperation with Professor Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University. The following sessions to be held in Kingsbury Hall should be found particularly profitable:

Monday, June 17, 11:00 a. m. General Session. "Education for Family Life"—Howard W. Odum.

Tuesday, June 18, 11:00 a. m. General Session. "Are Modern Parents Helpless?"—Henry Neumann.

Thursday, June 20, 11:00 a. m. General Session. "What About Your Family's Food?"—Margaret S. Chaney.

Friday, June 21, 11:00 a. m. General Session. "Family Life, the Threshold of Democracy"—Flora M Thurston.

The Tree of Liberty, selected for use in the Relief Society Literature department for 1940-41, will be reviewed Wednesday, July 3, 11:00 a. m. by Dr. Henry Neumann.

The University summer session provides wonderful opportunity for us to contact the Nation's outstanding authorities in their various fields. Howard W. Odum is Kenan Professor of Sociology and Director of the School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. He has a fine reputation both as a teacher and lecturer. The Bulletin states that "were it not for the fact that Dr. Odum has a professional interest in social research in Utah he would not be available for summer session teaching; his coming . . . is a rare opportunity for students in Education, Psychology, Sociology, and Social Work."

Dr. Henry Neumann, Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture, is well known as an author, teacher and lecturer. Relief Society women are acquainted with his excellent work through his participation on previous University summer session programs.

Margaret S. Chaney is chairman of the Department of Home Economics, Connecticut College. She is an expert in Nutrition and is well known nationally through her articles in leading scientific journals and through her textbook, Nutrition (joint authorship with M. Ahlborn).