[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Burdenless Bennett]
Forethought cuts time and work in half. If we don't care for sandwiches, they may be eliminated. Let us try this combination: a substantial casserole dish (rice, tomatoes, and hamburger; noodles and ham; chili; or corn with sausage); something fresh and crisp (tomatoes, watercress or lettuce); bread and butter; something to drink (water, milk, chocolate milk, or fruit juice); something sweet (shortcake, cup cakes, cookies or homemade taffy).
Granted that we all enjoy fried chicken, potato salad, hot rolls, deviled eggs, and chocolate cake, we still vote for the unburdened menu. As for entertainment, there are many sports and much elaborate equipment — horseshoes, baseballs, tennis racquets, swings, slides, teeters—but register another vote for simplicity. An inexpensive ball is probably the most useful family plaything yet invented. It can be tossed by young and old, tall and short, lean and plump. It can be batted, bounced, thrown overhand, underhand, north, south, east, west and in circles. It can provide mild exercise or a teal "work-out." The human voice is another invaluable addition to a picnic. Songs —group or individual, stories, family histories are all enhanced by moon or firelight.. Then, there are auto games! If the ride to the picnic is fairly long, the geography game is always a favorite.
Someone gives the name of a city, country, state, mountain, river, almost any geographical name, and someone else, within a specified time limit, must give another which begins with the last let- THE BURDENLESS PICNIC ter of the place or thing named; for example, Utah might be followed by Hawaii, and Hawaii by Idaho.
This goes on as long as the desire or ability of the group can sustain it. The greatest fun comes in producing such words as Ypsilanti, or Popocatapetl —it gives one a dashing feeling of having covered the entire world in a few moments.
Perhaps the most important point in achieving an effortless picnic is an easy attitude. If one determinedly resists picnicking beyond one's means—time, strength, and enthusiasm—it will be fun.
Energy varies greatly in individuals and in families, but it increases noticeably in the relaxing atmosphere of simplicity. Do not strain. Perhaps, too, we should add, do not advise others or write articles such as this, lest you catty the pseudo-expert's burden— "something to live up to!" The "Pie-Tin" lunch for children, to be eaten under an apple tree on a hot day: A.
Peanut butter, honey and lettuce sandwiches Strawberries Sponge cake Milk B Tiny raw carrots—scraped Hard-boiled eggs Whole wheat bread and butter Fruit juice Cookies Let one of the more responsible children carry the beverage in a pitcher and pour it on the spot. The "Bonfire Grill" party, to be enjoyed in back yard, canyon, or at the beach: A Kabobs (cheese and bacon squares thrust alternately on a stick, toasted and slipped into buttered buns) 385
Potatoes baked in the bonfire ashes (Start these early.) Fresh fruit or pineapple cubes Toasted marshmallows Orangeade B Grilled hamburgers (Add a little milk, bread crumbs, salt and scraped onion to the ground beef; serve with toasted whole wheat buns.) Chilled tomatoes Raspberries Cup cakes Chocolate milk Individual "Box Picnic," to be eaten in an auto: A Tuna and lettuce sandwiches Grated raw carrot and raisin sandwiches (Moisten filling with a little cream or mayonnaise. ) Cookies Peaches Plenty of paper napkins B Ground ham and egg sandwiches with lettuce Surprise package of peanuts or popcorn Ripe pear or other seasonable fruit Substantial "Fireless Supper," while you enjoy the mountain view: A Casserole of carefully cooked rice (each gtain separate), tomato sauce and browned beef cubes Crisp cabbage and celery-seed slaw Pumpernickle bread and butter Berries and cream.
Graham crackers stuck together with icing B Casserole of corn, green peppers and canned salmon (Shrimps or link sausages may be substituted for salmon.)
