[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Combined]

NOTES TO THE FIELD 405
Relief Society Beautification Assignment HE Church Beautification committee some time ago recommended that every ward have a Beautification committee to be composed of a representative of each of the auxiliary groups and Priesthood quotums. 'These committees were requested to make a careful study to determine the needs for improving and beautifying Church buildings and grounds and to definitely plan how the desired results might be accomplished. The Church committee now suggests a division of responsibility among auxiliary groups and Priesthood quorums in seeing that every phase of cleanliness and beautification receive careful attention. In suggesting definite assignments for special groups it is not the intention of the general committee to interfere with the work of the ward committee, the custodian or other individuals regularly employed by the bishop in the care and beautification of the chapel and grounds.
Only through close cooperation, however, and fixing responsibility can a full measure of success be achieved. It is suggested that the Relief Society see that the interior of Church buildings be kept clean—-the general assembly rooms, class rooms, halls, and rest rooms.
Floors and floor coverings should be kept clean, benches and chairs well dusted, windows washed, curtains and draperies laundered or dry cleaned at regular intervals.
Drinking fountains, toilets, and wash basins should be kept sanitary and in good working order. Soap, towels and toilet paper should be regularly supplied.
Special attention should be given the Sacrament service.
Clean trays and glasses, proper linen and a convenient receptacle for washing hands prior to administration should be provided. In asking the Relief Society to be responsible for checking on the cleanliness of the chapel, it is not expected that they do the actual work; their cooperation with the custodian and others regularly employed by the bishop is requested.