[Vol27 | June 1940 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: My Wedding Hill]
MY  WEDDING  RING 
Lael  Woolsey  Hill 
My  wedding  ring  is  a  golden  band 
On  the  third  finger  of  my  left  hand. 
It  is  as  endless,  as  bright,  and  fair 
As  the  love  of  the  lover  who  set  it  there. 
It  is  a  symbol,  'twixt  him  and  me. 
Of  our  happiness  eternally. 
Three  small  diamonds  in  my  ring 
Are  three  dream-children  our  love  shall  brinj

How  A  Mother  Can  Prepare  Her 
Son  for  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
By  Vivian  Redd  McConkie 
LATTER-DAY  SAINT  mothers 
who  have  faith  in  God  and 
who  love  the  Gospel  and  are 
imbued  with  wisdom  to  evaluate 
and  understand  its  principles  are 
anxious  that  their  children  shall  be 
the  recipients  of  its  blessings.  To 
guard  against  disappointments, 
mothers  of  this  type  take  early  in- 
terest in  guiding  and  shaping  their 
children's  ideals,  beliefs,  standards, 
and  habits,  that  they  may  have 
strength  and  power  to  withstand 
evil  forces.  "Train  up  a  child  in  the 
way  he  should  go:  and  when  he  is 
old,  he  will  not  depart  from  it" 
(Prov.,  22:6).  These  are  words  of 
wisdom.  No  matter  what  the  train- 
ing is,  whether  it  is  in  the  right  or 
the  wrong  direction,  "he  will  not 
depart  from  it."  Children  can  be 
habituated  and  accustomed  to  the 
right  way  when  sufficient  time  and 
thought  are  given  them  by  their  par- 
ents during  their  formative  years.  A 
mother  can  be  ever  so  conscientious 
in  the  training  of  her  children,  and 
exert  great  energy,  but  if  she  herself 
has  not  the  right  "mind-set",  the 
children  very  likely  will  be  on  the 
bias— inclined  to  swerve  when  temp- 
tations confront  them. 
Before  we  can  harmonize  our  con- 
duct with  the  philosophy  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  be  qualified  to  teach  it  to 
our  children  both  by  precept  and 
example,  we  must  have  clear-cut, 
well-defined,  and  correct  ideas  and 
conceptions  of  just  what  we  do  be- 
lieve as  Latter-day  Saints,  and  a  re- 
spectful attitude  for  all  that  the  Lord 
requires  of  us.     Our  understanding 
varies  according  to  our  faith  in  the 
Lord  and  our  conformity  to  His  re- 
vealed word;  hence,  there  are  many 
varieties  of  Latter-day  Saint  homes. 
People  live  according  to  their  under- 
standing and  desires.  We  live  no 
better  than  we  know  how  to  live. 
There  is  a  positive  relationship  be- 
tween doing  and  knowing.  If  one 
will  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  for  he 
is  in  a  position  to  have  his  under- 
standing added  upon.  "I  understand 
more  than  the  ancients  because  I 
keep  thy  precepts"  (Ps.,  119:100). 
When  we,  as  mothers,  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  our  faith 
increases  and  our  understanding  be- 
comes clear  and  definite;  for, 
"Through  thy  precepts  I  get  under- 
standing" (Ps.  119:114). 
Understanding  of  eternal  truth  is 
clarified  and  takes  form  through 
faith,  by  studying  the  Gospel  and 
becoming  familiar  with  what  we  be- 
lieve as  members  of  the  Church, 
through  meditation  (thinking  things 
through) ,  and  by  having  the  courage 
to  live  up  to  our  precepts.  Children 
born  into  homes  where  parents  have 
faith  in  the  Lord  and  an  understand- 
ing of  God,  and  who  have  apprecia- 
tion for  the  Gospel  as  well  as 
strength  to  live  its  principles,  have 
a  much  better  opportunity  to  suc- 
ceed in  the  fight  against  sin.  If  these 
characteristics  predominate,  and  if 
the  Gospel  is  the  beacon  light,  the 
children  are  more  nearly  assured  joy 
in  this  life  and  eternal  life  in  the 
world  to  come.
