[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | June | Issue: 1b | Title: SUFFRAGE NO FAILURE IN UTAH. | Author: A. W. C]

	SUFFRAGE NO FAILURE IN UTAH.
	It is quite astonishing that a journal of
wide reputation and up-to-date ideas like the
Ladies’ Home Journal should take such a
backward step as it has on the woman suf-
frage question, and especially surprising that
the editor should be so thoroughly misin-
formed on that subject. In a recent number
in an editorial entitled, “The signal failure
of woman suffrage,” the editor says: “While
granting there are some improved laws on
the statute books of Wyoming, Utah, Col-
orado and Idaho, the states where women
have voted for from fifteen to forty-two
years, still the largest and best number of
laws for the protection of life do not exist
in those states, but in those other states
where women do not vote.” This assertion
is absurd on the face of it, for men in all
the states have always had the power to
make the laws and the younger western
states, with the older ones for patterns, have
selected and framed the laws in accordance
with the best laws of older states and the
Constitution; but with woman suffrage in	
these four states mentioned, at each legis-
lature since the suffrage was granted new
and splendid laws have been placed on the
statute books. In Utah no man can dispose
of any property without the consent of his
wife and her written signature is necessary
for any transfer or mortgage of property.
We have the nine-hour law, the limit any
girl or woman is compelled to work, a law
which affects not only the women in the
factories, behind the counters and in offices,
but the nurses in the hospitals, and this law
is enforced, while Maryland is only now
rejoicing over a ten-hour law. Utah has
raised the age of consent to eighteen, while,
as every one knows in the southern states
it is as low as fourteen. Two criminals have
just this last month been sent to the state
prison, one for fifteen years and one for
sixty-one years, either sentence considering
the respective ages means life imprison-
ment, for rape, while to quote Miss Jane
Addams of Chicago: “In the state of Il-
linois the punishment for rape is the same
as that inflicted for the theft of fifteen dol-
lars’ worth of property, and a man may not
be extradited from one state to another for
so slight an offense.”
	In Utah all merchants are compelled to
place stools or chairs behind the counters for
the convenience of the women clerks. We
claim a curfew law, and have no superior
Juvenile court in the United States. Our
educational system ranks third in the union
of states. It is unlawful to perform a mar-
riage ceremony for any boy or girl under
the age of twenty-one without the consent
of the parent or guardian and such marriage
if performed can be declared void. Nor did
we forget, the comfort of the men, for a
woman legislator framed and put through a
law compelling all women to take off their
hats in public gatherings. In fact our stat-
ute books are full of improved laws for the

[Column 2]
safety of life, the comfort and protection of
women and children; and while we realize
there are other laws necessary, we feel con-
fident that with the strength of our votes
we can procure them, and we are not sleep-
ing either. We have made many victories
and expect to make more.
	The other suffrage states have made equal
advancement, and are alive to the necessity
of better laws, therefore, we feel the Jour-
nal criticism to be quite unjust. As uni-
versal suffrage is a foregone conclusion, it
seems almost needless to argue the question
now, for before long editors and others will
be so accustomed to this mark of progress
as to wonder why they ever opposed it.
							A. W. C.


[Column 1]
