CO-OPERATION OF A WIFE. 

	Upon this subject, some author, unknown
to us, has thus beautifully written: "No 
man ever prospered in the world without the
co-operation of the wife. If she unites in 
mutual endeavors, or rewards his labors with
an endearing smile, with what confidence
will he resort to his merchandise or his farm,
fly over lands, sail upon seas, meet difficulty
and encounter danger, if he knows that he 
is not spending his strength in vain, but
that his labor will be rewarded by the
sweets of home! Solicitude and disappoint-
ment enter the history of every man's life,
and he is but half provided for his voyage
who finds but an associate for happy hours,
while for his months of darkness and distress
no sympathising partner is prepared."
	It is worthy of note that all or nearly all
great and distinguished men have been 
the husbands of remarkably gentle and
highly intellectual wives. The following
story of Mrs. de Lafayette is illustrative of 
this fact:
	"Having been set at liberty in 1795, Mrs.
de Lafayette sent her young son George to 
Mount Vernon, to General Washington, who
received him as his own son, and she her-
self went to Germany to share her husband's
captivity. After many difficulties, she
arrived in Vienna, under the name of Mrs.
"Motier," an American lady. (Lafayette
indeed called himself "Motier," and he had
been admitted an American citizen.) This
courageous lady, having obtained private
audience of the Austrian Emperor, was
allowed to be shut up in the same dungeon
with her husband. Though in feeble health,
she remained there till the day when 
Lafayette's chains were broken. Her
presence was a balm for the prisoner's
wounds, and showed him that, in the most
cruel moments, the good man can yet taste
pure enjoyment.
	Mrs. de Lafayette was sincerely pious.
She fulfilled all her duties without ostenta-
tion, and shed a sweet charm in her domestic
circle. But let us hear Lafayette himself in
the touching letter which he wrote to one of
his friends after the death of his wife:
'During the thirty-four years of a union in
which her tenderness, her goodness, the
loftiness, delicacy, generosity of her soul
charmed, embelished, dignified my life, I
became so accustomed to all that she was to
me, as not to distinguish her existance
from my own. I never perceived in her the
slightest shade of exaction, of discontent,
anything which did not leave the freest
scope to all my undertakings; and if I go
back to the time of our youth, I find in her
traits of a delicacy and generosity without
example. You have always seen her associ-
ated heart and soul in my sentiments,
my political wishes, rejoicing in all that
could increase my reputation, rejoicing
especially when she saw me sacrificing op-
portunities of renown for a good principle.
*  *  Shall I tell you of the pleasure con-
stantly recurring which my entire confi-
dence in her afforded me,—a confidence 
never exacted,—justified by her well-tried
discretion, and by her admirable knowledge
of all the sentiments, wants, and wishes of
my heart?


UTE INDIANS have, in some instances,
become office seekers, and are gaining popu-
larity by stealing horses. They have been
taking lessons at Washington.


