PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	Many good and seasonable ideas were ad-
vanced at the Sabbath School Teacher’s Con-
vention, held in this city on the evening of the
7th inst. One of the most impressive facts
specified, was the inconsistency of parents
pursuing one course and endeavoring to teach
their children to walk in the opposite direction.
It was adduced that where a family of children
were known not to attend Sabbath School,
searching into the cause, almost invariably
brought to light the truth of the nonattend-
ance of their parents at the church meetings.
	It is a question if there are not many well
meaning parents, who fail to consider the im-
portance of their children’s receiving a proper
understanding and forming habits of observing
the Sabbath day. But if parents do not enjoy
the spirit of the religion they profess, to a
sufficient degree to enable them to appreciate
and delight in the sacredness of keeping holy
the Sabbath of the Lord, according as He
hats commanded, it is but folly for them to
seek to impress upon the minds of their chil-
dren that which they themselves do not feel.
It is worse than nonsense for parents to expect
their offspring to regard a principle they con-
temn or do not practice. It would be well if
parents visited the Sabbath schools often and
manifested the same interest in them that most
of them would be pleased to see their children
evince. And if fathers and mothers, among
the Latter-day Saints would have their sons
and daughters pure in heart and wise in un-
derstanding, let them walk circumspectly in
advance, thinking pure thoughts and living
pure lives.
	Even plurality, which is by many, thought
to be the most difficult of all God’s revealed
laws to be understood and accepted, is, by the
righteous and just course of a considerate father
and mother and agreeable co-workers, rendered
to the feelings of children a sacred and beauti-
ful point of doctrine.
	To instill into the minds of the young, the
principle of paying tithing, was also brought
into careful consideration during the evening of
the Convention. And what principle is there,
pertaining to the Gospel of Christ, which en-
sures happiness to young and old, more than 
this one, which is calculated to remove from
the thoughts and feelings all selfishness? As
soon as children are old enough to understand, 
this law should be taught them, and with this
as with all others—example weighs much more
than precept.


