"THE BEST PHYSICIAN."
	
	Sobriety and temperance go farther towards
preserving health of mind and body, and help-
ing people to live long upon the earth, than all
other prescriptions put together. The quality
and quantity of food and drink taken into the
stomach has much influence over the mind and
senses. It should be a leading rule in regard to 
diet, never to overload the stomach. A small
portion of food can be better digested than a 
large portion which injures the coats of the
stomach, and prevents them from exerting 
their force. There can be no fixed standard,
as a rule for what shall be eaten; for the organ- 
ized system as well as taste, differs so greatly 
in individuals. One may eat freely of a certain 
kind of food, and realize only good results;
while partaking of a like substance might prove
very injurious to another. Observation and
self study must determine the kinds of food best
suited to different persons, in all seasons of the 
year. The real object of eating should not be
exclusively to satisfy the appetite. The sensa-


tion of hunger, it has been observed by a man
of extraordinary good sense, is to incite living
beings to supply the wants of their earthly
bodies; and the abatement of this sensation
generally denotes that such wants have been
supplied. The satisfying of the appetite so
far, is pronounced a matter of consideration;
but a prudent person will observe the mode in
which the appetite is best satisfied, and, at the
same time the frame most abundantly nour-
ished, for the latter, ought to be the chief object
of eating. To the temperament, age and
strength of the eater, should the quantity of
food be proportioned; but too great variety, or
other than plain, wholesome food should be
avoided by all. Also sudden changes from one
extreme of living to another. If a change is
required, it should be made by degrees, very
cautiously. The appetite for food and drink,
with its liability to increase or become deranged,
should not be held as a regulator for the quan-
tity to be taken. If judgment were consulted
and adhered to instead, many difficulties migh
thus be prevented. Taking into the stomach
anything that weakens the body or makes it
heavy or torpid, serves also to unfit the mind
for proper exercise and exertion. But temper-
ance in everything purifies and gives vigor
and vivacity to the senses, strengthens and
quickens the memory, mitigates the passions,
enhances the love for virtuous enjoyment,
beautifies and harmonizes all thoughts, words
and actions and may well be styled the best of
all physicians, the wisest of all counselors and
the truest of all friends. For it is really the
spirit and power of true religion. And if people
would only listen to and never offend or slight
this great friend, there would be but little work
for other physicians to do. Occasionally there
might occur an accident, such as the breaking
of a limb or the bruising of a head; but is not
disobedience to the laws of temperance, the most
prolific cause of even such injuries, and in most
instances, the chief occasion of their worst
results? When the blood has been inflamed
or the functions of any organs of the body dis-
ordered by intemperance, the pains of any hurt
must be more violent and the injury itself more
dangerous for the preceding evils committed.


