TRUE CRITICISM.

	When you wish to find fault with another,
choose an opportunity in private, and not
directly after the offense has been commit-
ted. Let it be too, after you have carefully
reflected upon the nature and importance of
the wrong which has been done. The cen-
sured are less inclined to resist when blamed
without witnesses. They are likely also to be
struck with the forbearance you have shown
in waiting until you could see them alone,
while noting the error all the while, or some
time before.
	If you are a husband, never accuse your
wife of taking little or no pains to please you,
of being neglectful of your comfort or of any
of the duties which especially belong to her.
If you have a wife who is careless in such
respects, the best possible criticism to offer,
if she be possessed of a heart, is, for yourself
to adopt the opposite course. Does she insist
on wearing an article of dress which is
decidedly distasteful in your eyes, or pur-
chase without consulting your judgment
and desires; ask her, when you intend to
buy a new hat or coat, which style she
thinks most becoming to you. And be sure
to get that which she fancies most. Her
taste, in such matters, is as likely to be
superior to your own as yours is to surpass
hers in relation to anything she wears. At
any rate, humor her feelings; it will do good
in more ways than one. She will not only
be ashamed of the selfishness she has mani-
fested, and lovingly confess the same by
carefully studying your choice and endeavor-
ing to suit it in future; but will also seek to
cultivate her own taste and gain a correct
understanding of your wants and needs,
that her judgment may be more worthy of
being consulted and trusted another time.
	In like manner, meet all her woman-
ish mistakes, and without a word of fault-
finding, fretful or harsh criticism, you will
soon have a model wife.
	Are you a mother, and you choose to
leave home for a few hours, charging the
little folks to keep out of mischief, the older
ones to look after the younger ones and all
to be very good, be careful with what spirit
you meet them on your return. Do not
look first to find out all that may have gone
wrong, but try to see something that has
been well done for which you may offer
a few words of affectionate encouragement
and appreciation. If you find Bessie out
doors with baby bare-headed, don’t let your
first words on coming up to them be hastily
spoken; don’t tell Bessie to “take that child
right straight into the house—he’ll be
tanned as black as a negro!” And add as
you follow them, that she deserves a good
whipping for having him out there, and
that you suppose everything else has been
managed in like manner since you went
away. But rather reflect a moment ere you
speak. Think if eight or ten-year-old Bessie
is not a good girl for remembering to take
care of her baby brother and keeping him
with her, even if she has not remained in
the house all the time while the other
children were romping and having fun out-
side. And if portions of the housework
that should have been seen to, are left
undone, let those be last, instead of first to
claim your attention. See what arrangments
have been nicely planned and where the
orders you left have been promptly fulfilled;
give loving words of praise and credit for
these, and then see how readily all the rest
will be accomplished and what great pains
will be taken another time to have nothing
left undone that is calculated to add to your
comfort and win your smiles and kisses of
approval. Take such measures in all things
with your children, and they will learn to
anticipate your desires even before they are
told, and to delight in gratifying them.
									G.


