SEWING ON BUTTONS.

	The editor of the “Danbury News” thus
facetiously describes the male process of
sewing on a button; our brother editor is
probably a man of experience: “Sometimes
the patient wife scalds her right hand, or
runs a sliver under the nail of the index
finger of that hand, and it is then that the
man clutches the needle around the neck,
and forgetting to tie a knot in the thread,
commences to put on the button. It is
always in the morning, and from five to
twenty minutes after he is expected to be
down the street. He lays the button exactly
on the site of its predecessor, and pushes the
needle through one eye, and draws the
thread after, leaving about three inches of
it sticking up for lee way. He says to
himself: “Well, if women don’t have the
easiest time I ever see.” Then he comes
back the other way, and gets the needle
through the cloth well enough, and lays
himself out to find the eye, but in spite of a
great deal of jabbing, the needle point per-
sists in bucking against the solid parts of
that button, and finally when he loses
patience his fingers catch the thread, and
that three inches he had left to hold the
button slips through the eye in a
twinkling, and the button rolls leisurely
across the floor. He picks it up without a
single remark, out of respect for his chil-
dren, and makes another attempt to fasten
it. This time when coming back with the
needle he keeps both the thread and the
button from slipping by covering them with
his thumb, and it is out of regard for that
part of him that he feels around for the eye
in a very careful and judiceous manner; but
eventually losing his philosophy, as the
search becomes more and more hopeless, he
falls to jabbing about in a loose and savage
manner, and it is just then the needle finds
the opening, and comes up through the
button and part way through the thumb
with a celerity that no human ingenuity
can guard against. Then he lays down the
things with a few familiar quotations and
presses the injured hand between his knees,
and then holds it under his arm, and finally
jams it into his mouth, and all the while he
prances about the floor and calls upon heaven
and earth to witness that there has never
been anything like it since the world was
created, and howls, and whistles, and moans
and sobs. After a while he calms down, and
puts on his pants, and fastens them together
with a stick, and goes to his business a
changed man.”


﻿Mirrors laid over with gold are reported
to reflect sixteen times as powerfully as
ordinary quicksilver ones. 
	An aged couple who had been married
sixty-two years, lately attended a ball in
Newburyport, (Mass.), and took a lively
share in the festivities.
	Miss Nettie Wood has just been selected
a life member of a Hose Company of Schen-
ectady. The boys of that city have the fire 
of true gallantry.


