R. S. REPORTS.

    Information from the Richfield Relief Soci-
ety, which was organized on the 4th of
January, 1872, with Mette C. Peterson as
President, Eliza A. Ogelvie, and Annie
Hanson Counselors, Annie B. Nielson Sec-
retary, Berta S. Hanson Treasurer. These
sisters have all acted and do still act in their
respective places. We have contributed for
the emigration of the poor from Europe $70,
to the poor at home, $34; have in the Co-op-
erative store, $30, and in the Treasury $36.
Which is a fair indication, we think, that
the sisters in general are alive to the inter-
ests of the Kingdom of God. We have
monthly meetings which are well attended
and the sisters, with few exceptions, are
taking an active part in aiding the progress
of the Society, which with late additions
numbers over 100 members. Wishing the
success of every good enterprise, including
the valuable WOMAN'S EXPONENT, we re-
main
	Respectfully your sisters in the Gospel,
		METTE C. PETERSON, President
		ANNIE BENNEDICT NIELSON Secretary.

    Minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senior
and Junior C. R. A., held June 21st, 1873,
at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City: Meeting opened by singing “On
the mountian tops appearing,” etc. Prayer
by Counselor Zina D. Young. Singing “Do
what is right,” etc. Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted, also
minutes of meetings of the 8th and 11
Wards were read. Remarks by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, in which she observed that
“in speaking we should speak slowly so that
the Secretary can get what is said accur-
ately. When counsel is advanced each one
ought to receive it, and not depend upon
others for that which is given to be done.
Very little is being done in relation to our girls
learning to be printers. Young ladies can
receive higher remuneration at some other
employment than printing  that work is
not sought after. The subject of medicine
and nursing the sick may still be made in-
teresting and profitable. My daughter is
recovering from a very severe attack of
erysipelas. I applied cranberry poultices
to the parts that were affected where I
could, and where I could not I washed the
places with the liquor; for a purgative, gave
rhubarb and magnesia, and for drinks,
cream of tartar and toast-water. For in-
flammatory rheumatism, brown some poke
root and apply it with whisky.” Mrs. P. L.
Kimball said the subject of doctoring and
nursing the sick was highly important.
She had had much experience in nursing the
sick, considered that faith and works should
go together. When a girl she had the inflam-
matory rheumatism and her mother cured
her with cedar oil. “For erysipelas, to drink
mountain sage tea is an excellent thing; it
purifies the blood. I am pleased that this
subjet has been agitated. May God bless
and comfort us and save our children from
destruction is my prayer in the name of
Jesus.” Mrs. Higbee was thankful to
meet with the sisters; had been absent for
some time, having been sick, and among the
sick; had been visiting the sisters in Ogden
and Evanston, who attend to their sick them-
selves and do not employ doctors, which
was praiseworthy. If mothers wish to pre-
serve their children they should not expose
their arms and chests as so many do. They
should teach their children righteousness.
Prayed that every Latter-day Saint might
live faithfully and be prepared for that
which was to come. Mrs. Walker made
some very good remarks. President Mrs.
Horne said that in as much as they had a
subject she would like the sisters to cofine
themselves to it as much as possible. Mrs.
E. J. Pratt said her experience in relation to
sickness had been limited in comparison to
that of many others. When entering a sick
room, they should be self-possessed; all fevers
are brought on by colds. The best cure for
yellow fever is castor oil and brandy toddy.
For consumption, one ounce of flax seed and
one ounce of bone set boiled in one quart of
water; strain it and add one pint of molasses
and one quarter of a pound of sugar. Take
one table spoonful three times a day. Tea
made from strawberry leaves, and mutton
broth is excellent for dysentery. Another
remedy for consumption is to make rye
mush without salt and eat for evening meal.
For inflammation in the eyes apply corn-
meal poultices. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball read a select article on hygiene. The
same subject to be continued next meeting.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing
“The time is far spent,” etc. Benediction
by Counselor Mrs. E. Howard.
				M. M. GROO, Secretary.

	We received from Hyrum, Cache Co., the
following, under date June 21st, 1873. Dear
Sister: Knowing your desire for the well-
fare and interest of the Relief Societies, I
take pleasure in letting you know how we
are moving. At our annual meeting which
took place in May, we had a very good
time and were blessed with good instruc-
tion from our Bishop and Elder G. P. Ward,
upon the duties and blessings of our calling.
The sermon of President Young to the
Relief Societies was read by the Secretary;
also the Report of the Society for the past
year which was very satisfactory. Our in-
come was $116:60, and this amount has been
given for the emigration of the poor from
the Old World, and to the sick and poor at
home; also $40 for a Sunday School library.
And since our meeting we have given $44
to the P. E. Fund which will be accounted
for on our books the ensuing year. Our
Society has been and is a great blessing to
us, and none but those engaged in the good
work can realize its value. Your valuable
paper is a great help to us in our labors. In-
closed please find the cash, and list of sub-
scribers for a club for the second volume of
the EXPONENT. This club is composed of
our Scandinavian sisters, and we propose to
meet once a week and learn to read the
English language. Wishing you every
prosperity and success I remain your sister
in the Gospel,
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President.

	The Relief Society of Moroni reports as
follows; June, 1873:
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	DEAR SISTER:—The EXPONENT has but
lately been circulated in Moroni, therefore
we are rather late in sending you a report of
our Society. However, we are improving
and hope, by the blessings of the Lord, to
always be found willing to assist in any good
undertaking. The word “Female” has been
omitted from our Society by a unanimous
vote. The EXPONENT is a very valuable
little paper, and we pray heaven to bless
its Editor and all who seek to promote the
cause of truth.
			Your sister,
			      JANE BAILY, President.

	From Heber City, June 29th, sisters Ellen
Lee and Melissa Reynolds, clerks of the
Society, write as follows: On Thursday,
the 5th of June, we held our annual meet-
ing, in the Society hall. Meeting opened
by singing and prayer. The minutes of the
preceding meeting were read and accepted;
the financial reports for the year were then
read by the Secretary, showing that the
means collected had been faithfully and
honestly disbursed. Bishop Hatch being
present made some very excellent remarks
on our duties and privileges and the im-
portance of our being united, looking after
the wants of the poor, etc.  Brother Thomas
Giles addressed the meeting, said he was
pleased with the reports of the Society.
There was a goodly number present and all
seemed to enjoy a good feeling. The sisters
meet once a month to sew and do other
kinds of work. We want to be truly de-
nominated “Working bees in the Hive of
Deseret.”

	Minutes of the 61st meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Salt
Lake City, July 5th, 1873. President Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding, moved that as Mrs.
M. M. Groo was prevented from attending
the meeting by sickness, Mrs. L. Greene
Richards be appointed Secretary pro tem:
Carried. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard: Singing "Our God we
raise to thee." Minutes of the last meeting
were read and accepted. Secretaries of
Junior Associations read minutes of meet-
ings held in the 10th and 11th Wards. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne said that judging
from their countenances she thought her
sisters felt well. The subjects which had
been dwelt upon in some of the late meet-
ings were still before them and still interest-
ing and unexhausted; but as sister Mercy R.
Thompson, who had lately returned from
Europe, was present, also sister Amanda
Smith, who had been absent from the meet-
ings for some time, she would like to hear
them and others speak as they might be


led. Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young was
always happy to meet with her sisters;
whenever circumstances prevented, she felt
she lost a chapter well worth reading. All
could not be measured by the same rule,
some could get their best sleep and rest in
the morning, others found it best to rise
early and take the fresh morning air.
Health should be considered in preference
to other matters. Bread made from Graham
flour was best for common use. This bread
should never be kneaded, but stirred with a
spoon; was better for having a little molasses
put into it. Mrs. M. R. Thompson rejoiced
that she was permitted to meet again with
her dear sisters; while she had been absent
from them in body, her thoughts had been
often with them; for the protection of God,
which had been constantly with her, she
attributed much to the prayers of her friends
at Salt Lake, for which she thanked them
and glorified Him. The Saints in England
she found a kind, warm and affectionate
people, had the privilege of crossing the
ocean in company with some of them; could
see the hand of the Lord made mani-
fest in the blessings poured out upon her
daughter while she had been gone, in an-
swer to her secret prayers; the very things
she had asked of Him had been granted.
She asked the Lord to bless the Saints who
had lately come to Zion, she had been
blessed in their society. Mrs. Amanda
Smith could say truly that the present was
a glorious day for the Saints. She regretted
that there was so much sickness among
them, and that sending for doctors had
become so prevalent. It was best to send
for the elders first She related an incident
in which her son was thrown from a horse,
his head badly injured so that it was con-
sidered hopeless that he should ever recover
his senses if his life were spared. She could
not endure the thought of her son's being an
imbicile all his life; bathed him and made
everything about him clean and sweet that
the angels might come and visit him; called
in as many elders as could kneel around the
bed and they all laid their hands on him
and prayed one after another; when awake
the boy raved and would not allow an elder to
approach him, but they came and adminis-
tered while he slept, and he did not awaken
until the following morning, when his senses
were clear and bright as ever, and he was
soon entirely recovered. The speaker re-
lated several other instances in which the
power of God had been made manifest
through faith, showing that washing and
anointing, administration and simple medi-
cines, such as the Lord will reveal to those
who trust Him, are preferable to the treatment
of doctors. For a bad case of canker, to wash
with a swab and wash of golden seal, bayebrry
and sage. Mothers in Israel would be held
accountable in that they allowed their
daughters to flounce and flirt and dress over
much like vain women of the world.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young remarked that after a
swab had been once used to wash a sore
mouth it should be thrown away and not
put again into the wash. Mrs. M. I. Horne
said she always had a cup of clean water and
washed a swab thoroughly after using it.
She felt that whatever was necessary would
be given to those who sought wisdom of
God. Canker was a poison, it often required
the use of one poison to cure another; for
diptheria, to swab the mouth and throat
with verdigris and water she had proven a
certain cure when life had been almost de-
spaired of. Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball
was gratified to see Sister Thompson safe
with her friends again, was witness to the
restoration of her daughter's health; was
impressed with what sister Smith had said.
Many children of the Saints did not manifest
that faith which their parents had known;
why was it that good seed did not at all
times bring forth good fruit? Mrs. Mar-
garet P. Young bore testimony to the gift
and power of faith, its potency in healing
the sick. Mrs. Wilmarth East, and Mrs.
Clark from Farmington made remarks. Pres-
ident M. I. Horne said as sister E. R. Snow
would likely be present at our next meeting,
and all would wish to listen to her, no sub-
ject would be chosen. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks. Singing "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. E. J. Pratt.


