LITTLE FOLKS.

	An exchange remarks that it is one of 
the pecularities of the boy, that he finds
himself unable to bathe, except, so to speak,
at the top of his lungs.
	GIRARD, Pennsylvania, claims a little
child, perfectly developed, which weighed
but three ounces at birth and seven ounces 
when three weeks old.
	EVERY child who is born, is born a soldier
in the grand army of the human activities,
and has to meet and face both friend and
foe, and wage a warfare that ends in
glorious success or inglorious defeat.
	THE youngest homicide is twenty-three 
months old and lives in Augusta, Ga. It
threw an ale bottle at its colored nurse, who
was lying on the floor, striking her in the
head and causing an abcess that proved fatal
in ten days.
	NASHVILLE has a black and white boy
combination. He is half black and half 
white, not in the mulatto sense, but the
lower half of his body is whiter than ordin-
ary white folks, while his upper half is as
black as midnight. On the top of his head
is a little patch of straight silken hair, sur-
rounded by kinky negro wool. 
	A SMALL boy, having been required to
write a composition on some part of the 
human body, expounded as follows: "The
Throat- A throat is convenient to have,
especially for roosters and ministers. The
former eats corn and crows with it; the
latter preaches through his'n and ties it
up."
	A STRANGE mystery, involving the al-
leged disappearance of eighteen helpless
children, who had been committed as infant
paupers to public institutions on Blackwell's
Island, is being investigated by the Com-
missioners of Charities. The little creatures,
it is said, were farmed out to a lady, and she
seems to be unable to tell whether they are
living or dead. 
	A DECLAMATION FOR A SMALL BOY.
Keep still! That's what they say to us boys.
Just as if there never had been any noise
in the world until we were born. Haven't
old folks all been boys and girls once?
Didn't some of them drum on the milk pans,
or crack nuts with the flat-iron, or slam the
doors, or come down stairs sliding down hill
fashion? Everything that is smart goes off 
with a "bang." This would be a dull
world if it were not for the racket the boys
make. Noisy boys are not always saucy.
Some are; but we don't train in that com-
pany. "We" belong to the "Boys Rattle-
te-bang Society of Good Manners," and we
invite all our young friends to come and
join us.
	When the Dark Cometh.—A little girl
sat, at twilight, in her sick mother's room,
busily thinking. All day she had been full
of fun and noise, and had many times wor-
ried her poor, tired mother. "Ma," said
the little girl, "what do you suppose makes
me get over my mischief and begin to act
good just about this time every night?" "I
do not know, dear. Can you tell me why?"
"Well, I guess it's because this is when the 
dark comes. You know I am a little afraid
of that. And then, ma, I begin to think of
all the naughty things I've done to grieve
you, and that perhaps you might die before 
morning, and so I begin to act good."
"Oh!" thought I, "how many of us wait till
the dark comes, in the form of sickness or
sorrow, or trouble of some kind, before we
begin to act good!" How much better to
be good while we are enjoying life's bright
sunshine! and then, 'when the dark comes’
—as it will, in a measure to all—we shall
be ready to meet it without fear."


