HOME AFFAIRS.

	No letter from our correspondent at Beaver
this issue. The readers of the Exponent will,
with us, regret an omission of those ever
welcome and highly entertaining and suggestive
communications, with which we have been so
greatly favored.
	The City Council of this city has passed an
ordinance regulating the manufacture and sale
of spirituous and fermented liquors, which it is
to be hoped, will have the partial effect de-
sired in limiting and controlling the traffic and
too frequent use of liquor.
	After long days of excessively warm, dry
weather, came, courteously and cheeringly
down upon this city, a few refreshing drops of
rain, during the morning of the 11th isnt.,
between two and three o'clock. Not many of
the inhabitants could have been aware of it
though, for the shower was not heavy enough
to awaken the sleeping multidues.
	Work on the Temple goes on encouragingly,
so we thought while lately viewing inside
the block, the number of busy masons, and the
large quantity of granite, a considerable portion
of which was hewn  ready for laying in its place.
It would be gratifying to see all the Saints
unitedly and faithfully supporting the energetic
efforts of their leaders to complete a house
wherein all the ordinances of the holy Gospel
﻿could be adminestered for the living and the
dead. We were pleased to see quite a number
of boys, learning stone cutting, thus, not only
assisting in so good a work, but also acquiring
a useful occupation that may benefit them
through life.
	So carefully and silently was the closing
portion of the return trip of Miss Eliza R.
Snow conducted, that not until Thursday, the
fourth day after her arrival, when the return of
her brother, President Lorenzo Snow, to Brig-
ham City, was noticed in the daily papers, was
it suspected by many of her friends that she
was again safe at her home in this city, which
she reached on the evening of Sunday, the 6th
inst. Miss Snow is looking well, feeling well,
and rejoices at being again in the midst of
the Latter-day Saints, the people whom she
loves.
	The Glorious Fourth came and went peace-
fully and pleasantly this year, as it always does in
this city. The Fireman’s parade in the morning
was worth ever so much booming of cannon
and cracking and roaring of guns and pistols
which Utah boys don’t indulge in now as they
were wont to do in days gone by, ere they were
shown the impropriety of wasting so much
ammunition unnecessarily. And the concert
entertainment at the Tabernacle in the after-
noon, was par-excellent; the fire-works in the
evening, exceedingly pleasing and enlivening.
Altogether, every one who whished to spend
the Anniverary of American Independence jubi-
lents had ample resource for being gratified.
	A proposition has been lately made, to have
an iron steamer built for pleasure excursions on
the Great Salt Lake; and a gentleman of this
city proposes a home manufactured one from
beginning to end. The enterprise; if entered
into, will be new in Utah, and interesting to
many. Why are not more boys of suitable age
and inclinations, put to learn trades of different
kinds where efficient tradesmen may be found
to instruct? To understand the entire construc-
tion of a ship "from keelson to top-mast," is
worth something to a man. And besides this, 
there are many useful trades which boys of
strength and energy would do better to learn
and practice, than to grow to be men, knowing
nothing but how to stand behind a counter and
measure off tape and ribbon, or perform some
other light work, which legitimately belongs
to ladies.
	Civilization (?) creeps into our midst in all
forms, and warns all honest people to be cautious
how, where and with whom they walk, talk or
become in any way acquainted. The "Ogden
Junction" tells a story of a man being drawn
into a gambling hole in that city, after having
been treated to intoxicating drinks by newly
formed acquaintances, and there victimized
out of one thousand dollars—“his little fortune,
his all, which he had earned after years of toil.”
Such stories used to appear in newspapers of
the outside world, but were read with little effect
by children of Utah, many of whom gave little
credence to them, realizing in so small a degree
anything like the selfishness and impurity
which exists upon earth. But "civilization (!)"
has come nearer home now, and it requires a
constant effort to keep its contaminating in-
fluences from overpowering the true structures
of honor and integrity.
	We have been pleased to meet with a num-
ber of young teachers and advanced learners
who are in town from different parts of the
Territory, attending the Normal Institute and
receiving instructions under the able manage-
ment of Professor Park. A portion of the
young men and young women of Utah, it is
gratifying to note, are always on hand and
eager to avail themselves of such opportunities
for developing their intellectual faculties,
which, until recently, have never been afforded
them. The suggestions offered during the
course of the normal class, will without doublt,
be of great advantage to inexperienced teachers;
and, as one of the Institute’s intelligent young
lady pupils remarked to us, "It is well for us to
get all the knowledge of correct order and
discipline, and all the true understanding we
caneven if we have no intention of becoming
school teachers."


