SPLINTERS.
				__
	A Woman’s rights paper is published at
Venice, Italy......A man at Gold Hill, Ne-
vada, fell on the railway track and had his
legs run over by six cars, the other day, and
still lived for a short time......The shooting
of a paper wad from a gun, was the origin
of a fire that burned up fifty acres of wheat
for a farmer in California......Pikes Peak is
11,497 feet above the level of the sea.........
Gunners in some portions of the country
now use pure kerosene for cleaning their fire
arms......A rattle snake was lately killedat
San Diego, California, which measured nin e
inches in circumference and had eighteen
 rattles on its tail......The first of May, of the
present year is famous for its frequent me-
teors......Massachusetts has one hundred and
forty thousand dollars invested in railroads.
......Twelve small planets have been dis-
covered since the beginning of last year......
A steam-wagon is to run from Nashville to
Pulaski, Tennesee, commencing regular
trips in October next......A new telegraph
instrument is in operation, with the Western
Union Telegraph Company..........Hampton,
Virginia, has an institution for tecnical
education, where colored students who are
unable to bear the whole of their expenses
are furnished employment, and thus given
the means of helping themselves......A new
design for a steel locomotive boiler has been
made at the works of the London and North-
western Railway......One of the first mow-
ing machines ever invented in America
was the Baily, in 1822......It is said that the
most rational way of making steel is to
remove carbon from iron; but a wag reckons
“steal” might be more easily made by
removing silver from a safe, provided the
agent was quite “safe” himself......“Lippin-
cott,” for June, speaks of counterfeit emer-
alds which it is utterly impossible to
distinguish from the real gem, by the aid
of the eye alone......Gainsboro’ in Jackson
County, Tennessee, has a six-year-old math-
ematical prodigy, who makes astonishing
disclosures as to his ability as a natural
calculator. Another Horace Greeley, or
something like......George Ripley is reported
to have won himself the name of being the
best book critic in this country......England,
last year, recorded the marriage of eleven
grooms over eighty years of age; it looks as
though old England was beginnig to renew
her age......New York is agitating the im-
portance of preparing peat and similar
products for fuel......Louisaina is still dis-
turbed over her two governors............
There is to be seen in the pavilion of the
Ministry of Agriculture, at Vienna, a float-
ing cannon ball weighing 50 pounds.......A
man in Tennessee gives directions for spirit
writings on a slate, in which he says the
room of course must be dark, spirits won’t
write otherwise; this is that your spectators
may not have opportunity to watch you too
closely while you write as you please.........
The weavers of Berlin have made a strike
for higher wages.......Burton, the actor says
one half the work required to make a good
actor would make a rich man in any other
profession......The mysteries of the death of
Captain Hall, the arctic explorer, are to be
 examined into by Secretary Robeson.........
A great scandal in high life is being brought
to light in the New York Walworth murder
case......Broad Street, St. Giles, London,
once had a sign composed of a painting of a
woman without a head and the inscription
“The Good Woman,” condensing in a small
space the opinions of some men who con-
sider themselves great ones......A writer
 summarizes the history of civilization in
nine words, “The more you know the more
you can perform.”......The London School
Board, composed of men and women dis-
tinguished in physical as well as social
science, is now using its power to compel the
attendance o fchildren at school....The charac-
teristic element of modern science is the
quantative element, “how much” instead of
“how well” can be done, and too little care
is taken in the accomplishment of almost
anything that is performed.....J. P. Quincy
says “doubt any one’s good sense who
speaks scornfully of newspapers.........The
German population are counted among
the most industrious and economical citizens
of St. Louis......The capital of the American
Financial Corporation is limited to $1,000,-
000......A New York paper thinks that as a
cheap advertising dodge, the postal card
have become a nuisance......Bishop Ville, of
Parma, Italy, has forbidden the reading of
liberal newspapers in his jurisdiction......
Farmers are advised to marry in July, as
that is generally the natural hay-day of their
happiness......Chief Justice Chase is said
to have had a perfect mastery of Shakes-
pear, Milton and the earlier British poets.
......Bogus Charley, the Modoc warrior is
only about twenty years of age, a slender,
athletic, intelligent young man......L. E.
Crittenden delivered the address at the
inauguration of the statue of Ethan Allen,
on the 4th of July......A pretty compliment
to a lady is now considered thus, “a most
amiable lady worthy to be the maiden aunt
of the whole human race.”


