	HOME INFLUENCES.

"As Mother did”—“How Mother felt
and acted.”—“What mother taught”—are
the hinges upon which the world turns.
How carefully then, should “Mother” guard
herself against the temptations which lie in
her way, to anger, jealousy, impatience and
irritability of every kind! It will not answer
for her to be “cross,” no matter what the
occasion may be. She must wear the smile
of love and hopefulness; hers must be
words of cheerful trust and consolation un-
der the most trying circumstances; lest fret-
fulness and dissatisfaction be engendered
in the minds of her offspring.   She must
never allow the least envious or willful feel-
ing to have place in her heart, much less, find
utterance through her lips. Her thoughts
must be all of the highest and noblest nature,
or else she may give to the world sons and
daughters possessed of selfish and ungovenr-
able dispositions.
  If then, so much depends on “Mother”
to perform, if to her belongs so important a
part in making of the characters of men and
women—the Great Creator’s mightiest work
—how favorable should be her opportunities
for overcoming and disciplining her own
peculiar. Inclinations, in order that she may
the more completely and discreetly help to
characterize the dispositions and talents of
the coming generation! It is befitting her
to strive, energetically and continuously, to
school and master herself in all respects,
wisely and thoroughly; and in doing so, she
should not lack encouragement and assist-
ance from those around her.  Let her not feel
that she only must immolate within herself
those natural vanitites and discordant flashes
of temper which human flesh is heir to; but
help her to  see  that it is, if possible, of
greater moment that she be circumspect in
her ways, than that others should, since her
influence upon the future world is more
than that of any other can be.   And let her
know, she does not labor and trust alone;
but that others are willing and anxious to
help her in every consistent way, to become
what she, desires  to  be, prompted  by the
worthiest ambition, and that which she
should be for the sake of the inevitable
results which must follow her self-culture
and self control.
 Let “Mother” do her  part, but not the
whole in making home-life what it should
be. If she must so carefully guard the feelings
of all, let her feelings be equally respected
by all.   If she is expected to bestow the
priceless gift of pure and earnest affection
in richer abundance than any other, let her
receive the more from others that her store
may be constantly replenished. If she be
required to exhibit patience and fortitude
more than the rest, let each one endeavor to
give her as little cause for vexation and to
make her burdens as light as possible.
Home should, be, indeed, the "dearest,
sweetest spot on earth!”  And nothing con-
tributes so much towards rendering it such,
or the contrary, as the course pursued and
the influence exercised by the mother.  Yet
that course, and influence depend, in their
nature, very much upon the aims and ways
of others. Some women may possess suffi-
cient strength of character to take the lead
and make home happy regardless of the
immunity indulged in by thoughtless, in-
different or willfully neglectful husbands
and fathers.  But even- this can never be
so pleasant as is the home where love is
mutual, and each one trys to be agreeable
and obliging; where the purity and gentle-
ness of one, softens and tones down the
[new column]
dignity and ardor of the other, while both
are strengthened, and rendered more endur-
ing by such generous reciprocity. 
								L.L.


