THE SEX.

	MRS. J. A. Dunniway has announced that
she is a candidate for the office of Mayor in
Portland, Oregon.
	A CHINESE maiden, of delicate propor-
tions, brought  $5:75 at auction, in Idaho a 
few days since. 
	WHILE a pretty Omaha girl was getting
married, one of her jilted lovers sneaked
into a back room and smashed up the hand-
some bridal presents.
	WHEN you see a fresh bouquet of flowers
in a window every morning you may be 
almost sure that within the house there is a
woman of taste and goodness.
	IT is said that Mdlle, Cora Pearl, who was
sent out of France by the late Government,
has been allowed to return, like Prince Na-
poleon.  The coincidence has set the gossips
at work again.
	VERY large fans continue in fashion. 
They are of all patterns and prices.  Cheap
ones are most in favor. the ladies arguing
that the rapid changes in fashion justify
them in being economical.
	THE New Hampshire women, headed by
Sarah Foster, of Canterbury, have sent a
petition to the Legislature asking that the
property of women may be exempted from
taxation.  No vote, no tax, is their motto. 
	AN old lady in Indiana was buried  the
other day in the suit of clothes in which she
was married seventy-three years ago. It
was of linen throughout, and made of flax
she raised, spun, and wove with her own
hands. 
	A FATHER, in consoling his daughter who
had lost her husband, said: "I don't wonder
you grieve for him, my child.  You will
never find his equal.” 	 “I don’t know as I
can," responded the sobbing widow, "but
I'll do my best!" The father went home
comforted.
	Rev. Dr. Goodspeed, of  Chicago, said, in
the course of a Sunday's sermon, "The devil
understood what was necessary to blast
Eden, when he led the woman to be false
to God, to herself, to her husband.  A bad
woman,  an  untrue woman, is the prime
corrupter of society, and the destroyer of its
peace."
	THE women of Rochester who advocate
Woman Suffrage have held a meeting, or-
ganized a "woman's taxpayers' association,"
and adopted a constitution which says their
object is "to protest against taxation without
representation and to test the validity of 
laws governing women without their con-
sent."
	WHEN her Majesty, Queen Victoria, was
taken to task by a Right Reverend, years 
ago, for having Channing's works on her
table, and Her Majesty asked "why not?"
the eclesiastic unsuspectingly replied that
they contained very objectionable passages.
"Ah!" retorted the gracious Sovereign, "I
perceive you are before me in having read
them."
	THERE are women who love solitude and
live in it, who realize the idea that they
seek no joy but that which flows from the
depth of their own inner being.  Very few
people understand what infinite advantages
exist in solitude, especially for a woman. If
she be married and have children,  her
family circle is her solitude; if the contrary
be the case, her solitude is absolute, one "in
which she can actually live alone."


