PROGRESS OF WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

  Miss Anna Nichols, of Massachusetts, has
recently been appointed assistant examiner
of the Patent office. The lady has for some
time very creditably fulfilled the duties of
clerk; and on the occasion of some vacancies
in the examinerships, she was one of several
ladies who competed for places.   All of the
candidates were subjected to general scien-
tific examination as to their capabilities for
the position, and four ladies  passed the
ordeal with much credit.  The Commis-
sioner, however, concluded to appoint only
one of them for the present, as a sort of
experiment.
  There are few duties connected with the
operation of the Patent Office but may be
efficiently performed by intelligent women
It is all indoor work, mostly of a fixed,
clerical nature, for which petticoats are
admirably adapted; and if the Commis-
sioner would make a more general use of
them, he would set free a large number of
pataloons to be usefully employed in develop-
ing the more direct outdoor industries of
the country, for which men -are, by nature,
so especially prepared.
   At Canandaigua, in this State, Miss Susan
B. Anthony, who insisted that she had as
good-a right to vote as any other man, and
who did vote at the last election, has been
tried, and, we regret to say, found guilty,
and fined for violating the law.   Judge Hunt
decided that, although women were entitled
to the general rights of citizens, there were
certain special privileges which the law of
New York, as it stands, did not give them,
one of which was the privilege of voting.
The law must, in the opinion of Judge
Hunt, be changed before our feminine fel-
low citizens can enjoy themselves at the
ballot box.
    In the meantime, the Commissioner hav-
ing wisely decided in favor of the eligi-
bility of women as patent examiners, we
shall hope to see his decision sustained and
ratified by the appointment of Miss Anthony
as his successor when he shall retire—and
that day we understand, is not far distant.
The lady in question is a female steamboat,
so far as untiring energyand useful capacity
are concerned.   She is, undoubtedly, com-
petent to manage a dozen or two sleepy
institutions like the Patent Office. We
nominate, for Commissioner of Patents, Miss
Susan B. Anthony, of New York, and Miss
Anna Nichols, for Assistant Commissioner.
— Scientific American,” July 5th.


