EDITORIAL NOTES
	New York talks of having a State Park,
in the Adirondack district, to cover 834,000
acres of ground.
	The Present date is the third anniver-
sary of the day in which Napoleon declared
war against Prussia.
	The health of Vice-President Wilson
is reported to be in bad condition, he having
become a paralytic invalid.
	The earth has been shaking at Buffalo,
making three alarming attempts at a quake
within four and a half hours.
	The cholera plague has abated in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, and late reports represent
the city as being in a healthy condition.
	The Fairbanks, now worth $3,000,000,
borrowed five dollars to make their first
scale. Few young men could get a "respect-
able," dinner with such a beginning now-a-
days.
	Full Grown frogs are reported to have
been rained down in Columbia, S. C., the
other day. Are the plagues of Egypt to
visit our country with all the other novel-
ties?
	Unprecedented rain storms are re-
ported in Illinois, Ohio and Indiana, great
damages having been sustained thereby,
with much loss of grain crops, buildings,
fences and stock.
	Boston has been sensationalized by a
little perfomance of a wife shooter, who
acted the part he had chosen without a
hitch, shooting his poor victim dead and
afterward repeating the dreadful action on
himself.
	Pioche came near being disinhabited a
few mornings ago; an intoxicated desperado
taking the job in hand, shot four men to be-
gin with, and would probably have finished
the work but for the interference of the
police.
	Much excitement has been awakened
among the eaters of pork in Calhoun county,
Illinois, where hog cholera morbus is killing
off promising pigs. They don't relish Jew
custom in so great a degree as their better
senses compel them to adopt.
	Tornadoes and conflagrations, reports
of which crowd the daily newspapers, con-
tinue in all portions of the country. The
judgments of the Lord are being poured out
upon the nations of the earth, but they
realize it not and acknowledge not His
hand.
	It is reported of Nilsson, the sweet song-
stress, that since her marriage, her voice
has gained in volume, evenness and rich-
ness. We have heard of matrimony with
its varying scenes having improved the
voice of other women, where their husbands
were neither flattered nor pleased by the
change.
	Eugene City, Oregon lost six thousand
dollars worth of logs, carried away by high
water, while fifty-five thousand dollar's
worth of property was burning up at Birch
Hill, Providence; a little mixing of such
matters would be to the point some times,
if they could but be brought to work in the
proper manner.
	Eugenie, late Empress of France, fondly
entertains the belief that her country will
again be first among nations; that Roman
robbery will be defeated, the Pope and
peace and prosperity restored. Eugenie is
happy in building her air castles.
	The late Hon. Horace F. Clark, who
died on the 19th of June in New York,
besides being a large railroad proprietor and
a distinguished lawyer, was son-in-law to
the rich old Comodore Vanderbilt, whose
wealth he would have inherited had the
old Comodore but have gone first. He
was in the fifty-eight year of his age, a sound
thinker and reasoner.
	In Siam there are some restrictions placed
upon men who are polygamists. They can
only cast away first wives by divorcement;
but any other wife after, they can sell or
trade if they choose. Had the polygamic
wives of Latter-day Saints similar injustice
to contend with, outside lookers-on might
well prate, or be rendered speechless from
sympathetic disgust.
	Another ship wreck occurred on Satur-
day, the 5th, inst., on the Western coast.
It was the steamer "Washington." This
time there is little related of that horrifying
nature which generally accompanies accounts
of such disasters; of five hundred and nine
passengers, who were on the ship, together
with the Captain, officers and crew, not one
life is reported lost.
	Recently at a free public reading room
in England, the wife of Fawcett, the dis-
tinguished professor and writer on political
economy, was requested to leave the room
as it was not intended for women. Mrs.
Fawcett pluckily carried the case to the
head commissioners on public libraries, and
won the day, as she had a right to do. The
company was informed that women have a
right to the use of free libraries and public
reading rooms.
	The Indian question does not appear to
be approximating very rapidly towards an
answerable point. Fresh disturbances and
dissatisfaction are being constantly strirred
up among them, chiefly through the dis-
honesty and unfairness with which they are
met by unprincipled white men, whose
treatment towards them, whenever circum-
stances will admit, shows that they are far
inferior to the Indians whom they despise;
and as such they should be dealt with by
honorable men.
	Fifty or one hundred pounds have been
offered by an enquiring Englishman, toward
the completion of a telescope that shall be
powerful enough to discover human beings
—if they exist—in any of the spheres. The
ascertaining of such truths would be de-
cidedly interesting. But would it not be
too discomifitting to many of the surplus
carpet baggers, who prowl about in quest of
prey, if no means should be dicovered by
which they might immigrate thither to find
fault with the laws and obtain paying offices?
	The Walworth murder case assumes
strange and uncertain aspects. A friend of
Mrs. Walworth ventures to admit that
Frank has been guilty of “faulty logic;” and
Mrs. Julia H. Holmes writes thus concern-
ing the affair: "The intimate friend and
confidant of Mrs. Ellen Hardin Walworth,
I know the terrible facts which led to this
fearful tragedy—facts which I shrink from
revealing, out of regard for her delicate
reserve—facts so appalling and unendurable
they must make a perfect revision in public
sentiment when they come to be divulged
(as they must in the course of the trial.)"
	Civilization, where it passes such
brutal conduct with so slight attention as
the following telegram indicates, becomes
an abomination: A Chinaman employed on
a ranch about six miles north of Stockton
was yesterday subjected to most inhuman
treatment at the hands of his employer, by
whom he was accused of stealing $400; and
to extort a confession the rancher hung him
several times to the limb of a tree, and beat
him nearly to death notwithstanding the
victim's protestation of innocence. The
perpetrator of the outrage was subsequently
arrested on a charge of assault and battery
and fined twenty dollars.
	An interesting account is given by an
Oneida journal of a young Russian woman
by the name of Catherine Dickhova, who
has lately come to America. It describes
her as being higly educated and talented
though not yet twenty-one.  At the age of
sixteen she graduated with high honors at
Kasan and received the badge of her Em-
press, being one of four women who alone
have won such distinction in forty years;
this gives her the privilege of appealing to
the Emperor for any favor, and also of
attending court balls. There being no
schools in Russia where she could pursue
the higher branches of education, and being
unsatisfied with what she had received, she
employed private tutors for four years and
was then examined by the faculty of Moscow.
A poetess, novelist and correspondent of a
monthly journal published at St. Petersburg,
she has come to this country to study the
Womans movement and examine the medical
colleges for women, with the view of assist-
ing those of her own country. She is the
daughter of a General of Artillery in St.
Petersburg, her mother being a princess.
	Nearly all the leading men of Spring-
field, Massachusetts, have signed a petition
asking a young lady teacher in one of the
public schools to become a candidate for
County Superintendent of schools, to which
position she is eligible under a recent law.
Women are already being asked to occupy
responsible positions; by and by they will
have the liberty to do as much hard work
of any kind as they choose; and with the
present increasing frequencies of one ex-
treme following another, it is not altogether
inconsistent to contemplate, that after a time,
they will not only be permitted but required
to do much work of a laborious nature which
has hitherto been performed by men; and it
is not impossible, if the depravity of the
present generation should continue to in-
crease, for American men to become as great
tyrants and their women as helpless slaves
as those of China or Hindostan. Yet with
the advantages which the American woman
possesses for gaining enlightenment, such a
course of events need hardly be feared for
her daughters a few generations hence. But
the prospects of revolutions fast approaching
are forewarners which will bear noting with
due consideration.


