HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Mrs. A. R. R., writing to the “Rural
New Yorker," adheres to the time-honored
custom of washing on Mondays and gives
the following in its favor, in opposition to
the words of a correspondent of the same
paper, who does not believe in the practice:
	“If we keep the Sabbath, does it imply
that we must have confusion on the day
following? Do we sin in practicing those
habits of neatness and order on the Sabbath
which we follow through the week? Is it
any greater sin to return clothing, books,
etc., to their proper places after using, than
to throw them on beds, chairs, or the floor
to be picked up on Monday? Is it any
more labor, when we remove soiled clothing
to throw them in a tub of water to soak, than
it is to, hide them away in closets, under the
bed or in some other place out of sight, to be
searched for on Monday? Why have picked-
up dinners? It is no great task to prepare
food on Saturday enough to last two or
three days; or a picked-up dinner, even,
would not be so bad, with cheerful hearts
and pleasant words; for “better is a dinner
of herbs and love therewith, than a stalled
ox eaten with hatred.”
	Surely if we have kept the Sabbath as a
day of rest and holiness we should rise on
the following morning refreshed and with
enough of the spirit of the Sabbath to carry
us through one day, at least, without cross
words or looks; and as to those garments to
be finished, why they should have been
done the week before, or must be left until
the next wash. Many people seem to think
because they have a hard day’s work on
hand, they have also a free license to be
cross and fretful, and keep themselves and
the whole family in a state of mind which
is much more wearing to the constitution
than the labor they perform. 
	In well regulated homes, the house should
be in good order on Monday, the washing
done in the fore noon, or begun at least,
without the labor of looking through the
house for dirty clothes. We have for years
made it a rule to do no more washing in a
day than can be done in a forenoon, always
aiming to have the hair combed, and all in
order for dinner; and then a few hours all
to ourselves afterwards, or a pleasant ride
perhaps. If the week’s wash cannot be all
done in that time, or there are young chil-
dren whose clothes should be washed
oftener, we have two wash days, say on
Monday and Thursday—and we enjoy those
days as well as any of the seven; yes, and
when there are children around they enjoy
it, too, to wear old clothes, to play wash in a
basin of foaming suds, and not be scolded
for it. It is with us a never-to-be-dreaded
day. This does not apply to women who
have no conveniences for washing.”
	For burns or scalds apply immediately a
soft rag or lint saturated with strong spirits
of camphor, and keep it wet for an hour.
You will be surprised at the relief it affords.
[new column]
Another remedy, giving immediate relief
and healing quickly is to make a poultice of
boiling milk thickened with wheat flour,
spread on a cloth, pour over a little castor
oil and apply warm. For a bad burn or
scald, change often. 
	When wearied with work of mind and
body, a little pleasantry is often conducive
to health and cheerfulness. The following
examples for games are generally certain to
create innocent mirth.
	“The Bouquet."—Each player chooses a
flower, the name of which she secretly con-
fides to the leader of the game, who writes
them all down upon a card. She then turns
to her right-hand neighbor, saying, “I have
a bouquet, composed of such and such
flowers (naming them); which one will you
select, and what use will you make of it?”
Her companions, one after another, choose a
flower, and state what they will do with it.
When all have done this, the leader of the
game declares aloud the persons by whom
each flower is personated.
	Example. “Ladies and gentlemen: I
have here a charming bouquet, composed of
a bunch of violets, a white camelia, a damask
rose, a sprig of jessamine, a pink rosebud, a
brown imperial, a branch of hops, a yellow
dahlia, a blue campanula, and a Scotch thistle.
Which flower will you select, and what will
you do with it?”
A Lady.—. choose the damask rose, and
will wear it in my hair. 
A Gentleman.—And I the bunch of
violets, and will put them in a vase on my
table.
When the round of the company has
been thus made, the leader reveals the
names of those personating the different
flowers, by saying—
	“The damask rose is Mr.---, whom you,
Miss---, have chosen to wear in your hair.
The bunch of violets is Miss---, who is to
be placed in a vase on Mr---’s table,” etc.
etc.
	The Weathercocks.—The four corners
of the room are named after the four car-
dinal points, viz., North, South, East, and
West. The leader of the game takes the
part of Eolus, or the Wind, and stands in
the centre of the room; the other players
ranging themselves in one or more files.
The game begins by Eolus pointing to one
of the points from which the wind is sup-
posed to blow, at the same time calling out
its name, to which the other players must
respond by immediately turning in the
“opposite” direction. For instance, if the
wind cries “North,” the “Weathercocks”
must turn to the south, and so on. At the
word “Tempest,” every one must turn
around three times, returning afterwards
precisely to their former position. At the
word “variable,” they must “balance” back-
wards and forwards until the wind adds the
name of one of the cardinal points, “West” 
for instance, when they must “slowly” turn
to the east, instead of, as before, whirling
rapidly in the direction opposite to the one
indicated. When the wind names a point
“facing the one then occupied by the
weathercocks, instead of obeying its com-
mands they remain motionless. Any mis-
take is, of course, punished by the payment
of a forfeit.


A MISS Swift of Troy, New York, lately
eloped with a negro. That was rather too
swift for a white woman; she should have
been checked.
    BEES HAVE taught many a valuable lesson
—people in some portions of New Hampshire
have learned from them when they get too
thick to thrive, to "swarm."


