[WomansExponent | Vol15 | 1886 | January | Issue: 10b | Title: EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES. | Author: Unknown]

EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES.
	For some years a great deal has been said
about Bro. Stephens' wonderful faculty for teach-
ing singing, and it is well known that his efforts
in behalf of the youth of Zion have already been
attended with the best success, "though the half
﻿
[column 2]
has not been told." The greatest work, however,
in this direction, is probably still in the future as
he has already laid a substantial foundation on
which to build a musical structure, and among the
youth of Zion he has all the good material neces-
sary for the fine work he has undertaken. The
public has heard through the daily papers some of
his plans now in progress in regard to the training
of "our boys and girls," being much interested in
the cultivation of music, and especially the human
voice, we have watched from time to time the
course Bro. Stephens has pursued and noticed his
desire to perform public service in his particular
line of work and we feel an intense interest in the
matter.
The writer had the pleasure of meeting Bro.
Stephens in Boston at the New England Con-
servatory of music last winter, and found he had
won the admiration of his fellow students as a 
musical genius, as well as by his genial manners
even though he was known to be a "Mormon."
At his invitation and in his company we attended
one of the entertainments given by the students, and
saw the magnificent new hall beautifully illumin-
ated, and listened to the cultivated voices of the
young men and women, who make music a pro-
fession. In the midst of the enjoyment of the
hour our thoughts wandered back to Zion, and we
could not help feeling that we had as good ma-
terial here as was gathered there, or even better,
and that the future would develop here at home,
melody of voices that would fill the sacred tem-
ples, tabernacles and halls of Zion with vocal
music of the highest type.
But to accomplish this the student must be in-
terested in the work as well as the teacher. It is
impossible to perform a labor of this kind without
united effort, and to cultivate a taste for music and
develop the voices of the young will tend to refine-
ment and social elevation of character.
Bro. Stephens has kindly favored us with a few
items that the readers of the EXPONENT may per-
haps use to advantage in aiding him by their in-
fluence in the generous labor he has striven so
industriously to perform.
Brother Stephens has at present the following
classes: First, one of one hundred children both
sexes reading music from the notes and learning
chorus singing. Second, one of twenty-five ad-
vanced children students studying solo singing
and advanced reading. Third, about 100 just 
starting to read music and part singing. Fourth,
five hundred children selected from Sunday School
to learn alto to Sunday School pieces. This class
is taught free. There is also a class of about fifty
young men and young women at the the Deseret
University studying vocal music and how to teach
it in the public schools and elsewhere.
An evening class, numbering over 100 young
men and young women, studying classic music and
opera, in connection with advanced reading and
expression, etc., and a class of adults just starting
to read music. The  school teachers of 
the country also receive some instructions in read-
ing and how to teach.
Another large class for the purpose of teaching
all the brethren attending the Sunday Schools
of the city to sing tenor and bass, is shortly to be
organized. The whole now numbering something
over a thousand. The children of widows and
those in poor circumstances are always received
and made welcome to Bro. Stevens' reading
classes, free of charge, and quite a number attend.
He has in mind the establishing of a fund to aid
in giving such permanent instruction in classes,
and also free scholarships to such as show
great talent and deserve special recognition of
their efforts to study. Some concerts will be given
between now and Spring in order to raise means 
for this object. An afternoon class for ladies 
only is to be organized early in this year.
Bro. Stephens earnest and ardent desire is to
lay a foundation for the future musical progress


of teaching the youth of Zion, how to be practi-
cal musicians. Like many other professional
men, he needs encouragement, and enthusiastic,
as well as practical support from the community
in which he is so preservingly laboring to promote
a public interest in musical culture. Bro. Stephens
sometimes feels he has to almost force his labors
upon the people, although personally he is treated
in the kindliest manner, but to make his labors
effective of the best results and his own strength
and endurance lasting, to accomplish a noble work
ia this department of culture, he should, most cer-
tainly, receive the hearty cooperation of those
who desire to see the youth of this people elevated
to the highest rank in all that will tend to build
up and glorify Zion. To teach children is not the
easiest task, and there are but few musical men
who have the adaptability or the patience to un-
dertake, or at any rate, continue as Bro. Stephens
has done. In this particular he stands almost
alone, and should be fully appreciated. An old
saying “poets are born not made,” will as aptly ap-
ply to musicians and teachers for although much
may be acquired yet one must have natural gifts to
succeed to any marked extent. Those who are inti-
mately acquainted with Bro. Stephens will probably 
agree in saying, that he was born with a wonderful
talent for music, and he certainly possesses a rare
faculty of adaptability for teaching. Men of his
type incline to melancholy if not given encourage-
ment and support, and when one considers how
few there are who have the ability and the dispo-
sition to do so magnificent a work, it seems in-
credible that people should not enthusiastically 
appreciate the undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 					
117


