[WomansExponent | Vol15 | 1886 | January | Issue: 10b | Title: THE NEW YEAR. | Author: Unknown]

THE NEW YEAR.

     How little any of us know, unless by the spirit
of prophecy at the commencement of a new year,
what awaits us, or our friends, or our people, ere
the year shall draw to a close.  Standing upon the
threshold of this new year, it is easy to see what
barriers have been thrown up in the past one to
environ about the Lrtter-day Saints, and to hinder
their temporal and financial progress.  But the
spiritual advancement, these foes to the Saints
cannot stay in its onward march; that is not in
their power.  They cannot curtail the freedom of
the soul, not even when the body is incar-
cerated in prison; of this there has been abund-
ant proof during the year now just drawn to a
final close.  The work they now seek to destroy is
still marching forward gloriously, notwithstanding
the many obstacles thrown in the way.  Faith in
God, humility and patience will overcome and the
right will triumph, though the storm of hate and
error may rage fiercely and the days and times
grow darker still in the near future.  Though much
has transpired during the year that is past and
gone that may with all propriety be called perse-
cution, yet the enemy has not accomplished that
which was anticipated; the Lord has taken charge
of His chosen servants who are in exile, who stand
as pillars in the structure of the Church, and has
preserved them in safety, if not in peace, and not
a hair of their heads has been harmed.  To be
sure one of the apostles was taken but that very
thing has preached the Gospel and taught the
principle of plural marriage in the highest court
of the country, and in this the hand of the Al-
mighty is plainly visible, in that the Judges of that 
Court are left without excuse.
     In view of the great good being done by the
persistent persecution and oppression of this peo-
ple in several directions, perhaps after all there is
more reason to rejoice than to mourn, for many of
those whose faith was waning have wakened up
and are growing brighter and more earnest in
their endeavors to live their religion.  Union is
increasing and there seems to be less fault-finding
than in the days of prosperity.  No doubt the
tendency of the weekly prayer meetings has
helped to produce this effect, and the people really
feel, taken as a whole, the necessity of leaning
upon the Lord more on account of being deprived
of the constant advice and suggestions of the
Presidency of the Chcrch. It is very apparent
that Mormonism is coming to be better understood,
because of the opposition.  It causes people to
read and enquire who never would have thought
seriously of the matter, had it not been so loudly
proclaimed against, and the very persons who are
doing their utmost to tear in pieces the Church
and its institutions, are, by their vehemence and
animosity, spreading the truth.  And though it is
not expected all who hear will believe, yet the
Gospel must be sounded to all nations and the
opposition are paving the way for the Elders and
Church literature to reach a greater number than
could otherwise have been aroused to read and

[column 2]
hear.  That this year will be fraught with great
interest to this people no one can doubt who has
studied the prophecies concerning the latter day
work.  The one thing all should endeavor to do
is to prepare himself or herself for the day that is
coming, lest he or she be taken unawares.
     The events transpiring among the nations are
indicative of strife and rebellion.  The tendency
to monopolies is arousing the working people,
who are contributors to wealth, and the inattention
of those in power to redressing grievances and
suppressing wrongs that exist is a continual source
of agitation and will tend, at least, to uprisings
among a class who will be defiant and perhaps
cruel, the rumblings and mutterings one hears
from time to time in reference to these matters
ought to be remedied if possible to avert such a
terrible calamity as a serious outbreak would be
to this nation.  The people of the United States
have a great deal to say about the majority ruling
but if the matter at issue of Labor vs. Capital
were to be tested it would be found that labor was
the vast majority.
     A sort of co-operative labor system, such as
might be inaugurated by men of influence, would
do much toward bettering and elevating the work-
ing classes, and confidence might be created, and
a better and broader humanity be the rule, instead
of the exception.  If men of great personal and
public ability would pattern after Brigham Young
and the Mormons, instead of Jay Gould and rail-
road magnates, they might become public benefac-
tors, and receive the prayers and the blessings of
the laborer, instead of his deep muttered curses.
     The love of money and display, the luxuriance
that is the outgrowth of these two propensities, is
detrimental to the best interests of any community,
and these are growing stronger and spreading in
America.  The Lord is not pleased with those 
who selfishly aggrandize themselves to the exclu-
sion of the higher and nobler sentiments and
attributes that benefit all mankind, and He has
never yet prospered a nation for any great length
of time that gave itself up to the abandon of
wealth and pleasure seeking and extravagance.
In all the revelations given to the Latter-day
Saints, the observance of the rules of strict
economy has been enjoined upon them, and the
preservation of health and prolongation of human
life; and luxuriant living is the very opposite.
Excess of amusements and late hours, with the
consequent results, are in their tendency de-
moralizing, and should be discountenanced by all
those who are aiming for moral and social purity,
and the development of the higher and nobler at-
tributes of head and heart.
    It is to be hoped that in the year now opening
up great progress may be made in Zion, spiritual,
mental and moral, as well as temporal, and that
the oppressor’s chains may be broken, the prison
doors be opened, and the captive, Imprisoned for
conscience’ sake, go forth free and unmolested.
And with the most earnest prayer for all who suf-
fer persecutions, and for all the tried and sorrow-
ful ones, let the prayers of the faithful Saints as-
cend day and night, that all may go on to perfec-
tion, and arrive at the unity of the faith.  And
coupled with this wish, the EXPONENT extends
congratulations of the season and a happy new
year to all.
		“What thou hast in store
		   This coming year I do not stop to ask;
		Enough, if day by day there dawns before
		   Me my appointed task."


[column 1]
