				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEION.


[Column 1]	
				[For the EXPONENT.
		AUTUMN DAYS.
	Now gently comes the Autumn days,
when the harvests are gathered in and we
must begin our preparations in good ear-
nest for king winter, for his reign is an
absolute one: no jolly walks then over hill
and plain, no rambles after flowers or ber-
ries, or nuts: no long confidential talks
over love and romance by the rippling
brooklets, no moonlight love tales, out "in
the stilly night," when the doves coo, and
the nightingale sings in harmony, keeping
time to the voices of the young lovers;
no, all these things are over for a time,
and we gather around the hearthstone and
tell over old legends, and sing snatches of
old songs, and read aloud to each other
and discuss in family groups all sorts
of subjects, and ofttimes amuse our-
selves by drawing fanciful pictures  in
the bright fire,  imagining we see this
and that,  in  our  dreamy  sort  of
reverie, and if we turn to the back of the
room there we see other transient pictures
among the shadows that come dancing
from the fitful firelight on the walls.  Then
if we turn to the windows there again are
pictures on the panes; castles, towers, and
domes, trees and landscapes, drawn  as
if by magic by "Jack Frost," beautiful and
suggestive; who has not enjoyed them?

[Column 2]
	Yet a little time now winter lingers, and
we luxuriate in the cool weather, the Indian
summer, with its soft mellow sunlight, and
blue violet haze that like a drapery
of gauze folds itself around the moun-
tains and hills in  the  distance. And
throuhg it in bright glowing colors, making
a warm and brillaint outdoor picture  we
see the flaming maples and  other varieties
of trees, that autumn has crowned as 'twere
with a halo of glory.  Now we should revel
as much as possible in  the  sunbeams,  they
will brighten  our  thoughts  and  improve
our health, walk out and partake the ex-
hilarating air to brace the nerves and quick-
en the blood.
	Many of us lose the stray sunbeams and
console ourselves by thinking, only a trifle,
such a little thing, but life is made up of
trifles, and O, such beautiful trifles some
are, they make a part of life's moments
really charming; there are many sunbeams
in our lives if we will but catch their rays,
and their reflection will brighten and glow
in our hearts long after the meridian glory
of life's sunshine has departed, and the soft
evening shades draw near.
	In the autumn time there is much to be
done, both of hard and exhilarating work,
or we might term a part of it pastime.
Who is there that does not enjoy gathering
fruits and nuts, for the long winter even-
ings; and who can but remember some in-
cident connected with this labor-pastime
that is particulary pleasant in the retro-
spective.
	With what ardor the young folks enter
into these pleasant pursuits and while they
appreciate the pleasure of the work for the
prospect of the enjoyment it will afford
them become better acquanted with each
other, and many an engagement has fol-
lowed these pleasant frolicsome gatherings
in the harvest-time.  As  write old.time
memories come flooding in upon  us  just
like a great river, and interesting incidents
that would form subject matter for many a
fine, little, true, love story.
	It is very commonly remarked that the
autumn is the saddest time of the year, the
wind moans and sighs, the great trees bend
and sway themselves backward and forward
as in a tumult of grief, and the dry leaves
rustle under our feet and flit hither and
thither or pile up fantastically.  To  me
there is an inexpressible pleasure in  these
things,  a sort  of  sympathy  that  accords
well with the elements of my nature and if
I have any preference for any particular
season it is certainly the Autumn.
	There is a peculiar charm in the very
languor of the atmosphere  of  the Indian
summer, and altogether the autumn brings
home the most powerful  lessons  to  the
heart  of any of the seasons; or is it because
we really begin to appreciate the warm sun-
shine and the many out door  beauties that
please the eye and gratify the sense of sight
and smell just as we find we are to be de-
prived of them for a little season.  This is
the time too  when farmers  look over their
labors and count up the gains, and wonder
what the fruit of the harvest  will be  when
all is estimated, "What will the harvest be"
would be well for all to consider.
