HOME AFFAIRS.

	BLANKS to fill out for R. S. Reports are now
ready at the "Deseret News Office; 5 cts each.
Orders sent from any part of the Territory will
be attended to, and blanks sent promptly by
mail.

	WE HAD intended to publish notes of the
Fair, Sunday School Union, Meeting of the
Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A., and other things of
special interest to the Saints, but limited space
prevents; however, these will appear in our
next issue, Nov. 1.

	THE FIRST number of "The Contributor," a
new monthly magazine for the young people,
was issued the first of this month. It presents
a very nice appearance in its plain grey paper
cover, and is well filled with solid, entertaining
and instructive reading matter. We congratu-
late the editor, (our young relative) upon the
success he has met with thus far, and trust
"The Contributor" may prove a blessing to the
young people of this Territory, and that they
will not be backward in sending literary con-
tributions.

	A NEW book, the first of a series, has been
published recently at the office of the "Juve-
nile Instructor," entitled "Faith-Promoting
Series—My First Mission," by Elder George Q.
Cannon. It is well adapted to the use of Sun-
day Schools, and is an interesting, truthful
little work. Children of the Latter-day Saints
should make themselves acquainted with the
lives of the Apostles of the present day, and
of all good men. We are pleased to recom-
mend this little book to the young, and look
forward with pleasure to the time when the
schools and Sunday Schools can be furnished
with books written by the Saints.

	THE FORTY-NINTH Semi-Annual Confer-
ence, held on the 6th, 7th and 8th of this
month was a very interesting one, and was
numerously attended. The music and singing
was excellent and inspiring, and the preaching
was of a character sufficiently practical to suit

[Column 2]
the circumstances of the people, and the condi-
tion of things in general throughout the entire
Church, and yet replete with that spiritual
element that is the true inspiration and motive
power of every real Latter-day Saint. We had
the pleasure of attending every meeting while
the Conference lasted, and participated in the
good spirit and feeling that was specially mani-
fest. It is time the Latter-day Saints increased
in faith and holiness and good works, and laid
aside those frivolous, trifling things that hinder
the progress of truth and the preparation nec-
nessary in this last dispensation for the coming
of the Savior.

	MRS. SUSANNA Homestead, being desirous
of promoting the interest of home manufac-
ture in her special branch of industry, Artifi-
cial Flowers, desires us to solicit patronage for
her through the columns of the EXPONENT.
She wishes to take a class, or classes, for in-
struction in this pleasant and useful occupa-
tion. She has been practically engaged in this
work thirty years, and understands it thor-
oughy. She has stamps, colors and all kinds
of materials needed in teaching. She teaches
the French style of work, having been under
the tuition of her sister, who learned the art
of making flowers in Paris. Sister Homestead
feels sure she can give perfect satisfaction as a
teacher. It is a pursuit in which one might
delight, and one which certainly ought to be
encouraged as a home industry, for there are
thousands of dollars expended in this Territory
for this one little article, that might, with
suitable material, at a very small cost, be made
at home. Those desiring to make arrange-
ments with Mrs. Homestead for lessons, will
find her at Mrs. Reed's, on Main Street. Sign
of John W. Reed, Harness shop.

	NEW TABERNACLE.—We have been requested
to publish the following notice, for the benefit
of those who were unable to be present at Con-
ference, and if the response to the teachers is
as unanimous as the vote in the meeting, we
are assured by the committee that the work on
the Tabernacle will be prosecuted with all
possible dispatch, until completed for public
nse:

	With a view to aiding the Bishops in raising
funds for the completion of the New Taberna-
cle, at the Quarterly Conference, Sunday, Oct.
5, President Angus M. Cannon submitted the
following proposition: That every man, wo-
man and child, as members of the Church in
this Stake of Zion, shall donate the amount of
one day's labor, in the kind of pay they work
for, or the proceeds of one day's income, to be
paid within one month from date. When this
proposition was put to vote, it was unanimously
responded to by the uplifted hands of the con-
gregation present. Prest. Cannon then ex-
pressed his pleasure at witnessing such a cheer-
ful response, and desired the Bishops to have
their Teachers visit every family in their re-
spective Wards, to ascertain the kind and
amount of means to come from each, so as to
furnish the committee, within one month, the
funds necessary to hurry up the completion of
the building. The Bishops are therefore re-
quested to have this matter attended to imme-
diately, so that the building may be fully pre-
pared for use at our next Quarterly Conference.
				GEORGE GODDARD,
					In behalf of Commit'es.

