STATE LEGISLATURES.

	The question may arise in some minds,
"if the enfranchisement of woman should
in justice be settled by national legislation,
why petition the state legislature?" For
this reason: when a resolution in favor of a
measure passes a State Legislature the
Senator and Representatives of that state in
Congress are thereby instructed as to their
votes on that particular measure when it
comes up for action, and on the other hand
the people of a state are roused to thought
on questions under debate in their own 
legislatures. Again, the only way a dis-
franchised class can bring their wrongs
before their rulers is through petitions, and
to secure these, agitation and discussion
are necessary to attract popular considera-
tion. Hence we ask you to circulate the
state as well as the national petition in
every school district.
	If we had the power to galvanize all
women into as much zeal for their own
freedom and development as they now
manifest in fairs, temperance associations,
foreign missions, church building, decora-
tion and donation parties, our cause would
speedily triumph.
	Women are not idle, but many spend
their best forces in dress, dinners, fancy
work and social conversation, and in the
forth of literature, politics and religion,
without ever sounding the depths of those
principles on which society rests. The
wrangling of parties and sects may not
concern woman; but the vital fact of govern-
ment, the limits of state and church author-
ity should be considered within the sphere

[Column 3]
of her interests and comprehension. In-
stead of clubs for the study of Greek Art,
Heathen Mythology, and Microscopic
Investigations, Woman Suffrage Associa-
tions should be formed in every town,
county and state in the Nation. A sense
of individual freedom, the liberty to think,
and act within the same limits prescribed
to those in authority, complete equality
with those around us, give the strongest
impulses in the development of a noble
character. When we remember that our
present demand for national legislation on
woman's political status, involves the same
principle that has kept up a continual con-
flict in this nation for a century, the high-
est motives of patriotism should add zeal to
our efforts for self protection. If every
woman, however humbl[-] would bear in
mind that injustice to her is injustice to all;
that to acquiesce in the sacrifice of one in-
dividual right, is a step towards the down-
fall of the republic, a new sense of personal
dignity and responsibility would inspire all
with greater earnestness in advocating
their own enfranchisement.

