		       FILIAL AFFECTION.

	Not long since I promised the EXPONENT
the sequel to the story of the fanatical
woman who ran away from her husband
and nine children, an infant in the cradle;
started on horseback with her religious
teacher, to perform a journey of two hun-
dred miles. She took a horse from her
husband's stable in his absence, riding side
by side with her enthusiastic lover, was
pursued by a policeman and overtaken the
first night. The animal was captured and
returned; the loving couple left to pursue
their journey as best they could.
	Years rolled round and no intelligence
came from the deserters. The children
were grown to manhood and womanhood;
married and settled in life, wealthy and
respectable. The eldest son Colonel Doo-
little was an officer in the war of 1812. In
1825, an official letter was sent to him and
to a younger brother from a county in the
State of New York, that their mother was
a destitute widow, supported by the town
where she lived. It was a law in that state
that children should support their indigent
parents, where they had means sufficient.
The brothers were moved with compassion,
notwithstanding they had been forsaken
by that mother in childhood; they immedi-
ately sent means to bring her to their homes.
They both lived in the same dwelling,
large and convenient for two families.
The aged father lived with the youngest
brother. It was decided that the returned
wanderer should take up her abode with
the elder brother, Col. Doolittle. The
two old people though living under the
same roof were never intimate; but some-
times conversed together of bygone days,
and of the infatuation which had embit-
taed their lives, and brought sorrow to
their childrens' hearts. Her confession
was frank and impressive, she owned she
did not think of her infant till the shades


of evening began to close around her.
When I heard that, I was reminded of the
words of the Lord to His chosen people.
"Can a woman forget her suckling child,
that she should not have compassion on the
fruit of her womb! Yea, she may forget,
yet will I not forget thee?" She soon awoke
to a sense of her condition, but was too proud
to let her children even know that she
lived. The man was not unkind to her;
they lived in poverty and obscurity, till at
length he died, and left her without means
of support. The grandchildren were my
associates; I admired their humility and
condescension towards their repenatnt
relative; for although there were no marked
expressions of affection, they were always
polite and respectful, I could read in their
bearing towards her the language of their
hearts. "Her own reflection be her pun-
ishment." I once ventured to ask Col.
Doolittle what his sentiments were in re-
gard to his mother? He replied in an in-
direct way saying, with emphasis, Miss
Barnes, (that was my name,) She is my
mother!” That word expressed all that was
necessary to be said. She was a black eyed
woman, and little as I knew of phrenology
then, I judged her to be of an impulsive
temperament. No doubt she had keenly
felt the remorse that would most assuredly
arise when sober reflection presented to her
view that unfortunate inregularity in her
life! Happy was it for her, the father of her
children had taught them humane and
heavenly principles! Their’s was an exam-
ple of filial affection.
						L. B. PRATT.
	Beaver Oct. 9.


