WISE WOMEN OF SCRIPTURE.

	We have lately been reading in the writings
of one of the great men of the day, that in
contemplating the lives of some men it is dif-
ficult to imagine that they ever-stood at "a
mother's knee and listened to fairy tales and
ghost stories, with which infancy in particu-
lar is so often amused." This is amusing in
itself, when one considers the part of the
mother towards her offspring, and the relation-
ship in which woman stands to the world.
Why shouldn't this great man have been born
an infant like other men? Jesus was born of a
woman, and no doubt listened to Mary's teach-
ings. But, forsooth, now a days it is hardly
possible to believe that such things ever trans-
pired in the lives of men who have risen to
eminence. However, this same writer to
whom we alluded is compelled to confess that
the distinguished man of whom he is speaking
had a mother who was not only affectionate
and tender, but also wise, and, moreover, that
she prophesied (think of it!) of "the remarka-
ble role he was to play in the nineteenth
century, although she did not live to see her
prophecy fulfilled."
	It is common to refer to the Bible to prove
that woman should be in subjection to man,
that she is not his equal in wisdom and intelli-
gence, or in executive ability. No wonder,
when from generation to generation she has
been held as goods and chattels, and her opin-
ion e n[-]idered only in domestic affairs as
worthy of consideration. But in ancient times,
according to the Bible, great deference was
paid to the opin[-]ons of women; so that we have
a precedent in Scripture to go back to for main-
taining an honorable position for woman.
	Where can we find more illustrious women
than those whose histories are recorded in the
"book of books." Deborah, who "judged Israel
forty years and there was peace in the land."
She was not only the chief executive power,
but according to the best authority she also
made some laws, and certainly, if we can be-
lieve the inspired writers, led armies to battle,
and delivered her people out of the hands of
their enemies.
	Many are the inspired prophetesses of which
the Scriptures tell us; no doubt they were very
similar in all respects to the women of this
Church at the present day, and quite as hu-
man. Did the kings and prophets ever refer to
them in important matters? They did, as will
be seen by reference to the twenty-third chap-
ter of the 11 Book of Kings, beginning at
the 8th verse; read and see for yourselves how
woman was honored by the high priest, the
scribe and others. The high priest found the
book of the law of the Lord in the Temple,
and he gave it to the scribe to read, and the

[Column 2]
scribe showed it to the king, and the king com-
manded his wise men, high priests and scribes,
to go and inquire of the Lord for him concern-
ing the words of the book. Now these wise
and great men went to a woman (what a con-
desc-nsion!), "Huldah the prophetess." (and
she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college,) and
they communed with her." Well, what did
this woman do? She said, "Thus saith the
Lord God of Israel, tell the man that sent you
to me." And she told them what should trans-
pire, and confirmed the prophecies contained
in the book, and established its validity; and
we do not hear of any one questioning the
matter, but we read that the king caused the
book to be read in a solemn assembly, before
all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and the priests and the prophets
and all the people both great and small. And
thus we must look upon Huldah as authority
in this instance.
There are abundant testimonies that God
acknowledges woman as capable of thinking
and acting for herself, also that she could be
trusted with sacred messages. To whom did
Jesus first show himself after his resurrection?
To a woman—and she ran to tell his disciples.
There is no fear in regard to the recognitiou
of women in the great events that are about to
transpire in the earth; but there is a large
amount of ignorance on this subject that it
would be well to dispel, and which certainly
must give way before the rapidly increasing
and steady march of light and true progress.
							[unreadable handwriting]


[Column 1]
