EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flurishing con-
dition, I can truly say that we are united to
gether with kind hearts and willing hands
that are ready to help build up the king-
dom of God. We recieved a visit from our
beloved Sisters E. R. Snow and M. I. Horne
May 16. Sister Horne addressed the sisters
on the necessity of training our children, of
improving their talents, teaching them to
be punctual, and all correct principles. She
advised the young sisters to encourage
home manufacture, and advised the sisters
to store up grain for a time of need, said
we must take care of the little things for it
is the little trifies that make the whole.
She exhorted the sisters to meet often to
speak of the Gospel in these the last days
for it was the "Bread of life" to us; that
women had a great mission to perform in
this age and a work as mothers, and if they
were faithful they would be queens in the
kingdom of God.
	Sister Snow said she was happy to meet
with the Sisters and Saints of God, no
matter where. She knew it was our priv-
ilege to become sons and daughters of the
Most High through obedience to the Gospel.
We ought to have confidence in one another
and work for each others interest. She
wished the sisters to raise mulberry trees.
Said where ever the Saints dwell the land
will be blessed if they will have faith,
the curse will be taken off—it requires a
will to do the work, and where there is a
will there is a way.
	She wished all the Sisters to rise up that
wore home made hats and bonnets; a great
many of the sisters rose up with which she

[Column 3]
seemed pleased and said my young, sisters
the time is not far distant when you will
have to fill a much higher sphere than you
are filling to-day. Suffer not your affec-
tions to rest upon the vain things of Babylon
but try to have your religion at heart and
mothers teach your children the ways of
the Lord and set examples before them
worthy of imitation and teach them to be-
come self-sustaining—
	May God bless our beloved Sisters for
their good counsels and labor of love among
the daughters of Zion.
