A WOMAN'S TROUBLES.

	MISTER EDITOR—I am in great truble
and I want some advise. When I was
young I was teached that'a woman's bisness
was to be agreeable, ornymental and affec-
shunit. They sed that kind of a woman
could get the smartest husbands and I gess
thats so for my husband is a very smart
man and he used to say I was as hansum as
a pitcher and stileish as a fashon plate and
lovin as a dove. Hes a grate deel smarter
than Mister Dawkins, our next door nabor,
but Missis Dawkins knows everything and 
my husband seemes to think more of talkin
to her than of lookin at me and she don't
like it because her husband sits and looks
at me instead of lookin at her while shes
talkin to my husband. At least I dont
think she does and this is part of my
truble but not the worst. Missis Dawkins
is as homely as hedge fense and dont
know this years fashions from last and I
made some remarks on her looks one day
and my husband said and said it: very ex
presive to, that folks isnt to blame for not
bein hansum but they was to blame if they
didnt know nothin because they could
learn if they wanted to. I shall think to
my dyin day he ment me and it made
me feel bad so I thot I'd try to learn some-
thin. Missis Dawkins and my husband
used to talk a grate deel about the daly
papers so I looked in them and I saw a place
that sed Notes for the fair sex and if I dont
know much I knew that was for wimmin
and kept readin it but all there was to it
was about dresses and fashions; and got
another paper and that had a column of
W-o-m-a-n-i-t-e-s that was just the same.
And I got another that had'a place in it that
sed for and about wimmin and that wasnt
much better. Once in a while they told
about some womman that had painted a
pitcher or killed a bare or shot a man or
how old some womman was who made a 
speech but mostly twas all the same. All
they had for wimmin was about clothes
and hair and such things so I begun to
think I was teached rite after all. But it
seems to me my husband aint satisfied
I saw one of your papers one day and
it sounded so kind o' sensible that I thot I'd
rite and ask you if you think as all other
editers seem to that a womman dont need
to know nothin only how to be agreeable
and affeckshunit and fix herself up nice. I
shall wait for your answer with great
angziety. I spose my spellin aint hardly
good enough for a Editur for I didnt go to
schule much, but you must excuse it and 
remember-how little I was teached.
	Yours very truly,
				JOSEPHINE JACKSON.
	Blinton, Oct. 1st, 1867.
	"Phrenological Journal."


SORROWS are like thunder clouds; in the 
distance they look black, over our heads 
hardly gray.


