	EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION.—The Educa-
tional Association met Saturday evening last
in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms;
the attendance was not large, in fact, the roll
showed a much larger number absent than
were present, This is not very complimentary


to the members of the association for their in-
terest in general matters pertaining to this
branch of the public good. The exercises,
though, were of more than common interest.
	The first part of the programme was an
essay on education, read by Mr. B. W. Sloan.
He advocated a free striking out in new paths
by teachers—encouraging an inventive spirit—
that new plans may be formed to impress the
lessons taught upon the minds of the students.
If a blunder is occasionally made by such a
thinker, it is more than counterbalanced by
the good which is accomplised in the aggre-
gate. The present efforts made by educators
were quite commendable, and should not be
relaxed until each schoolhouse is fitted up—
commodiously for room and elegantly in fur-
nishings. Territorial laws should be passed
which would fully cover the ground of foster-
ing and protecting school interests.
	Mr. O. F. Whitney presented his "Views,,'
which were that education should be broad
enough to cover every phase of life; the sys-
tem was far from perfect which destroyed the
physical structure to build up the mental; the
system was defective which imparted a philo-
sophical education and neglected the moral;
the system was incomplete which accomplished
never so strict training in the knowledge of
temporal matters, yet omitted the spiritual
part. Cited instances of persons who had thus
suffered by such defective teaching.
	Prof. Lewis gave a hearty endorsement to
the views and ideas presented by the speakers,
and narrated circumstances that had come un-
der his personal knowledge which would sub-
stantiate Mr. Whitney’s position.
	A vote of thanks to those gentlemen was
given.
	Prof. Riggs spoke of how he had made a
point of giving a short lecture every morning
to his scholars, taking a text or an occurrence
in life to impress a moral or good behavior les-
son, and found the students—large and small—
became quite interested in these exercises.
	Dr. Park was strongly in favor of deducing
from every lesson or exercise a “moral” which
would lead to higher and better thoughts.
	A motion prevailed that all the members of
the association be called upon, in rotation, to
take part in the exercises, those not presenting
themselves, to be dropped from the roll.
	The meeting adjourned until next Saturday
at 7 p. m., at the same place. —"Salt Lake
Herald."

	This association should receive strength and
encouragement from the women of this Terri-
tory. We have been informed there are a few
lady members who have taken an active part.
There should be more attention given to this
subject. There are many ladies here who have
been practically engaged in teaching a great
number of years, both here and in the States,
and might be a great help in giving others the
benefit of their experience, and advancing
ideas on this important subject. We hope that
at the next meeting, Saturday, Oct. 18, there
will be a number of ladies present. This is an
opportunity which should not be neglected,
and is certainly a legitimate field for woman
to work in.


