BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Our last chapter treated upon gossip, vis-
iting cards and calls, and as we were com-
pelled to leave off before finishing our re-
marks on that particular subject we shall
now resume. "At watering-places and
country estates calls are made upon those
who arrive later. At places of summer
resort, those who own their cottages call
first upon those who rent them; and those
who rent call first upon friends arriving at
the hotels. In all these cases exceptions
should be made when there is any great
difference in the age; the younger then
calling upon the elder, if there has been a
previous acquaintance or exchange of calls."
In England the lady highest in rank makes
the first call; in America age is the prefer-
ence. It is extremely rude, when a person
asks and receives permission to bring a
friend to call, and then neglects to do so.
"In some foreign countries calls are often
returned within twenty-four hours." If
the acquaintance is not pleasant there is no
occasion to call again.
	"A young American gentleman, after
calling upon a distinguished general in
Paris (who was more than twice his own
age), and then taking a drive in the Bois
went back to his bachelor apartments to
find, to his great surprise, that his call had
been returned the same day. Had he called
upon an American citizen in his own land,
of as exalted a position, the chances are
that not even a card would have been re-
turned, for our men have not been trained
to lay much stress upon these marks of
civility, as proofs of good breeding. It is
the strict observance of these trifling form-
alities which has caused the French to be
considered PAR EXCELLENCE the most po-
lite people, although it is said they carry
their politeness no farther than the observ-
ance of hollow forms and necessary cere-
monials."
	"There are certain duties which are the
same everywhere, certain omissions which
are rudenesses in all societies, and which
no Christian politeness is sufficiently per-
fected to endure." These duties should be
taught by those who have the care of chil-
dren as carefully as possible, that they may
be a part of their every-day life.
	"Cards should be left at a house the day
after, or at least within a week after, any
entertainment at which the person leaving
cards has been invited, whether she has
been able to accept the invitation or not."
Should unavoidable circumstances prevent
this, a note of explanation should be writ-
ten. "If calls are not made as usual, in the
autumn, upon return to the city they must
be made during the first week in the new
year, and returned within a fortnight."
	"Ladies who are so remiss as to neglect
the simple rules" which relate to social life,
must after a time cease visiting each
other.
	"Abroad the wives of American diplo-
matists are sometimes complained of for
their neglect in the etiquette of calls and
cards, acceptances and regrets, and other
forms and ceremonies of life at courts,
which are held binding by those acquainted
with them. It is always set down, how-
ever, to 'American ignorance,' not to in-
difference, since such a thing as indiffer-
ence is impossible to those who have been
trained to regard their performance as hon-
orable."
	"After cards have been left once in a
season, they need not be left again, except-

[Column 2]
ing after an invitation, or upon a guest
stopping at the house."	*	*
	Countess—, in her book, "Mixing in
society," says: "To receive visitors on a
[----] day in each week is only to be justi-
fied by the exigencies of a lofty position."
	"One cannot return the call of elderly la-
dies, by leaving a card at the door; it is
considered disrespectful.—If the cards of
persons much younger are left, after hospi-
talities extended to them, one is at liberty
to make a card serve for a return visit. To
the French is due the custom of making
the delivery of a card answer for the appear-
ance of an individual. It is a great conve-
nience for elderly people and invalids who
have no daughters to make their calls for
them, as well as for ladies who have a large
visiting list and occupations which leave
them no time to make formal calls
	A call upon persons in mourning, and all
cards of condolence should be returned
with mourning cards, when the family be-
gin to make their appearance in public.
When admitted upon a call of condolence
—made within ten days after the death, if
on intimate terms with the family, or with-
in a month otherwise—care must be had
not to allude to the event first, and if
spoken of not to dwell upon the particulars,
unless it is evident that the bereaved de-
sire it. Until the cards of formal acquaint-
ances have been returned by cards of the
bereaved, it is not well to repeat the call.
	Cards of congratulation must be left in
person, or a congratulatory note, if desired,
can be made to serve instead of a call ex-
cepting upon the newly married. Calls in
person are due to them and to the parents
who have invited you to the marriage.
When there has been a reception after the
ceremony, which you have been unable to
attend but have sent cards,	*	*	your
cards need not again represent you, until
they have been returned with the new
residence announced; but a call is due to
the parents or relatives who have given
the reception. When no wedding cards
are sent you, nor the card of the bride-
groom, you cannot call without being con-
sidered intrusive."
	Calls should be made within three days
or a week after an entertainment given;
whether you have accepted the invitation
or not. "In France these calls are known
as 'les visites de digestion,' and are strictly
enforced.
	A lady should not keep a visitor waiting
without sending to inquire whether it will
inconvenience her; any delay whatever
should be apologized for. Persons calling,
if introduced into a room among people un-
known to them, should give their name
and mention upon whom the call is made.
If you meet a lady or gentleman and cannot
recollect the name, tell them so, for any
sensible person would prefer to explain
rather than be talked to without recogni-
tion.
	"Gentlemen leave their umbrellas, over-
coats and overshoes, in the hall, but take
their hats hnd canes with them into the
room. These should not be laid upon the
table, or any article of furniture, but placed
near upon the floor, if a gentleman does
not wish to keep them in his hands.
	There is much said about turning down
the corner of a card, its signification in
reality is that it was left in person, and
that the owner would have come in had the
one for whom the card was left been at
home. In some places great stress is placed
upon trifles. There are many points of eti-
quette that tend to simplify and make easier
our social intercourse, and these we should
endeavor to adopt.

[Column 3]
	There are some who can see no need of a
higher standard of manners, and ridicule
the idea, and attack those who seek to ele-
vate the society in which they move, but
this only proves their ignorance not only of
good-breeding, but the Scriptures, "Be ye
courteous," and many other passages to
which reference might be made. Formality
may be objected to, but a little more cere-
mony than we usually see would maintain
a much better feeling, and create a higher
estimate of character in many instances.


