UNITED STATES.

	By the unwearied efforts of a few carnest
women, we already number thirty years of
agitation on the question of woman's en-
franchisement, and fourteen years of persis-
tent petitioning Congress for National
Protection against the tyranny of state ac-
tion.
	While our demands have not yet achiev-
ed political equality, they have secured
larger opportunities for women in education,
industry, art, science literature and the
professions; more humane legislation in re-
gard to her social and civil rights, as wife,
mother, widow; and an increasing respect
for the right that includes all others—the
right to vote.
	The 40,000 votes for woman suffrage in
Michigan; the 9, 070 in Kansas; the 6,666
in Colorado; the large minority votes in
many of the State legislatures in favor of
submitting the question; 26,468 in Minne-
sota in favor of woman's voting on temper-
ance; the right to vote on the schools already
granted, and women actually voting there-
on in Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Colora-
do, California, Oregon, New Hampshire
and Massachusetts; the Minnesota legisla-
ture at its last session passing a resolution
urging Congress to submit a sixteenth
Amendment for woman suffrage. and the
enfranchisement of women in Wyoming
and Utah; all these facts show that the
best classes of men are in favor of Equal
rights for Women, while the ignorant and
especially the vicious, are bitter opponents.


[Column 1]
	The discussion in Congress on th e bill to
admit women to practice in the Supreme
Court of the United States, and its passage
in both Houses by overwhelming majorities
lead naturally to the conclusion that if a
woman may plead a case involving impor-
tant interests between man and man before
the highest judicial tribunal, it is absurd to
deny her the right to vote on the closing of
a dram-shop or the opening of a town
pump.
	The large number of petitions and appeals
from women for enfranchisement during
the Forty-Fifth Congress speak for them-
selves on the pages of the Congressional
Record, and so, too, do the Majority and
Minority Reports of "the Senate Committee
on Privileges and Elections;" and in com-
ing years the six senators who voted
against political freedom for women, will
look upon their action with regret, while
those who recognized in our demands the
constitutional rights of a United States'
citizen, though represented in a woman's
form, will congratulate themselves that in
maintaining liberty for her, they strength-
ened the bonds of Union for all.
	The Forty-Sixth Congress contains an
unusually large proportion of new repre-
sentatives, fresh from the people, ready for
the discussions of new issues, who have
already manifested a just spirit in the con-
sideration of the repeated appeals of women
citizens.
	On Tuesday, April 29th, the following
resolution was submitted to the "Committee
on Rules" in the House.
	Resolved, That a select committee of
nine members be appointed by the Speak-
er, to be called "The Committee on the Rights
of Women Citizens," whose duty it shall be
to consider and report all petitions, memo-
rials, resolutions and bills relating to the
rights of women.
	Admitting the justice of a full and fair
consideration of a question involving every
right and privilege of one-half the popula-
tion of the country, a majority of this most
important committee, Alex. H. Stephens
of Ga., James A. Garfield of Ohio, Wm. P.
Frye of Me., declared themselves in favor
of the appointment of said committee, and
Speaker Randall, Chairman, ordered it
reported to the House, where it is now
pending. A similar resolution will be
introduced in the Senate at the opening of
the regular session in December. This
proposition marks an era in our civilization.
	It is the first time in our experience as a
nation, that it has been proposed to appoint
a standing committee to look after the spec-
ial rights of woman. And yet the record of
Congress for a century is a history of na-
tional legislation on the rights of man.
	Political parties have each in turn de-
manded national protection for the measures
they deem sacred. The Missouri Com-
promise of 1820, its repeal in 1854, the Fugi-
tive Slave Act of 1850, and all the national
legislation to preserve slavery, were so many
successive steps towards a union, protecting
the right of property in man, and empower-
ing the master to hold and recover that
property everywhere under the national
flag.
	Since the war the spirit of national legis-
lation has been reversed. The Thirteenth
Amendment of 1856 abolishing slavery,
the Fourteenth of 1867, defining citizen-
ship, the Fifteenth of 1870, securing United
States citizens in their right to vote, are all
milestones on the way to mark the triumph
of a true nationality, protecting the rights of
man, as Man and Citizen. This conflict of
the century has educated our whole people
into clearer ideas of individual rights.

[Column 2]
	From the very birth of our nation, gifted
women like Abigail Adams and Lucretia
Mott, inspired by our grand principles of
government, have asked that the rights of
women, as citizens of a republic, should be
secured.
	Our unsuccessful efforts for enfranchise-
ment throngh the vote of the people in the
several states, and the speedy triumph of
theAfrican race in achieving political equal-
ity by constitutional amendments have
educated us into the broader demand for
national protection. Ever since the war,
ours has been the only Woman Suffrage
organization, and we the only class of cit-
izens who have steadily maintained the
doctrine of national supremacy in the pro-
tection of "Equal Rights for All" while
both of the political parties and even the
Supreme Court of the U nited States, have
played fast and loose with this fundamental
principle of a republican government, de-
claring that only male citizens of African
descent are protected in the right to vote
by the Constitution. Hence we demand
an additional amendment that shall speci-
fically declare woman's right to vote in
every State and Territory of the Union, all
State Constitutions or Statute Laws to the
contrary notwithstanding.

