

Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, ot the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Volume 51 October 1964 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 So Grateful That You Taught Me' Edith S. Elliott 735 <A Scenic View of the Literature Lessons Vilate R. McAllister 746 They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society Maxine T. Grimm 754 Three of a Family Marvel M. Young 796 Point of View Is Important Leona Fetzer Wintch 797 Gleanings for the Harvest Season Celia Luce Fiction 728 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 1 Mabel Harmer 739 "The Good Fountain" Joyce B. Bailey General Features 722 From Near and Far 749 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 750 Editorial: Refinement in Relief Society Activities Louise W. Madsen 752 Retirements From the General Board 770 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 755 Blessed Autumn Dorothy J. Smith 756 Tiny Sewing Kit Shirley Thulin 757 Celia Willden Jensen — Artist of Rugs and Quilts 758 The Cents-less Ghost Has Gone Genevieve Van Wagenen 761 The Day After Halloween Janice T. Dixon 764 Comparative British and American Measures Sandra M. Covey 766 Recipes From Scotland Kathleen S. Farnsworth Lesson for January 777 Theology — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary Roy W. Doxey 783 Visiting Teacher Message — "That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent" Christine H. Robinson 785 Work Meeting Lesson for January to appear in a later issue of the Magazine 786 Literature — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part II Bruce B. Clark 792 Social Science — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (Continued) Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 721 Leaf By Leaf — Frontispiece Alberta Christensen Why? By Linnie M. Findlay, 734; Beauty, by Rowena: Jensen Bills, 738; Wind, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 745; Day in Late October, by Lael W. Hill, 748; The Golden, Golden Time, by Christie Lund Coles, 753; Dew on a Peace Rose, by Judy Paget, 753; Requited, by: Bertha A. Kleinman, 760; Autumn Color After the Rains, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 763; Inspiration From Zion National Park, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 785; Wood Duck on Water, by Ethel Jacobson, 798.
Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society THE quality of a nation is nothing more than the reflection of its people, who in turn are formed into families. Someone has said, "As the family goes, so goes the nation." Latter-day Saints have the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fullness which teaches them proper attitudes and gives direction for their development and exaltation. The state of perfection that we reach is entirely up to each of us. We are given our free agency. How grateful we should be that we have a Heavenly Father who cares enough about us, his children, to make the rules and regulations so clear, that, if followed, we can return to him. Latter-day Saints, as individuals and families, live in many parts of the world and can be a nucleus in quality which can help raise the standards of their community and nation. History has shown that when a people are willing to live up to high moral principles, their country forges ahead in all things good. We have also known of "historical lows'"' when whole nations have been wiped out because of the lack of proper demeanor on the part of their inhabitants. As parents, of course, we love our children. Every wise mother and father have dreams and hopes for the development of their children so that they will be prepared to meet life successfully. Many parents have the satisfaction of having their children grow up into well-adjusted, well-educated, intelligent, and much-loved individuals 724 SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME who make a wholesome and appreciable contribution to their families and the communities in which they live. Some parents have the opposite experience and suffer the heartache of having to see their children in varying degrees of circumstances undesirable in fields of social acceptance, law, or order. The sad part of this latter situation is that it may be too late to help. The time for training and influence has passed. Then parents may have the added remorse of realizing that they had not earnestly done all they could do to guide, teach, and discipline their children properly. The time to begin to teach proper deportment is when children are very young, while their habits are being controlled and molded. Your happiness, the children's happiness, and community happiness are dependent upon how well you do your job. As soon as God breathes the breath of life into a newborn baby, parents take on the enormous responsibility of its development. The baby doesn't come to you as a "little adult," but helpless, dependent, and yours for shaping. This is where love counts the most. Only love can weather the time of discouragement when misunderstandings arise. A young nurse in one of our large hospitals has endeared herself to many mothers, doctors, and nurses because of her love for babies. She worked in the delivery room and once, just bubbling over with enthusiasm, she exclaimed, "I have the most wonderful job in the world, because I get the babies straight from God! I have the opportunity of holding them in my arms and taking care of their very first needs. It is a really humbling experience to care for one of God's spirits so recently having left his presence. I hope I am worthy of this blessing." This nurse is a wife and mother now, still carrying on and applying the above thoughts with reference to her own children. She senses her responsibility to care for them and train them so that they may grow to be well-adjusted individuals. One simple example of her training is never to allow her tiny children to run or walk through the house holding a glass of water when they have asked for a drink. She has taught them to sit on the floor, drink what they want, and return the glass to her, thus avoiding the hazard of spilling or breakage. She says, "If my children learn at home that they must be careful in their activities, then they won't be a nuisance when I take them to the home of my friends, nor an embarrassment to me." In Proverbs we read, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it." Training should begin as early as a child can comprehend what it is that he should do. Parents should remember that a child's chronological, physical, and mental age development may not all coincide. They must not push his learning processes too fast, but continue on a level that a child can reach, with challenges sufficient for continuing growth. Most parents do quite well in developing their children physically and mentally. However, there is too large a percentage who neglect 725 OCTOBER 1964 the training of manners and social graces which help to make their progeny welcome in and acceptable to society. Knowing the secret of putting every member of a group at ease is a rare gift. This can be achieved only by conscientious and continuous training and learning. Home practice and home coaching in speech and performance will pay large dividends. It is a real thrill for parents when they hear someone say, 'Your child is so well behaved in Church" or "Your child is always welcome in our home — he is such a gentleman." These are some of the rewards for teaching courtesy and respect in daily activity. Courtesy oils the wheels of association. When we realize that children reflect the actions of parents, we should always be on guard and set a good example in culture, refinement, and politeness. We can't give any more help in these areas than what we ourselves possess, so we should constantly be on the alert toward self-improvement. No one can afford to be anything less than a perfect lady or gentleman. Courtesy, good manners, or politeness — whatever term we wish to use — have played a most important part in international relations. Diplomacy among nations smooths out many tense and misunderstood incidents. Ambassadors and government representatives have to have had a strict training in ways and means of handling people and incidents. Politeness is just another term listed under the all-encompassing heading love. If we love our fellow man enough, we will never do anything to offend. We will seek always to be helpful to others and aim to make the lives of relatives and friends as pleasant and rewarding as possible—''Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets" (Mt. 7:12). Orientals have an engaging way of showing courtesy. They are trained from birth to respect and show deference to parents, brothers and sisters, older people, and those in authority. This they do with no effort. It is just a part of them. This training has gone on for generations. Gentle-mannered Orientals teach by example and we can learn much from them. It is a joy to associate with persons of good manners. Our children should be taught to respect their elders. Mature persons have had years of experience and knowledge which increase with use and time. They can enrich the lives of young folks by their example and teaching. Also people who hold positions of leadership, management, or authority should have respect shown them. In most cases they have arrived at their positions because they have merited it, and young folks should show appreciation for the attainment. Our Latter-day Saint boys and girls should stand up when any of the Church Authorities enter their group. Boys should arise when a lady enters; hold the door for her; help her with her wraps; provide a chair; thus creating a climate of good will. 726 SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME Our girls should follow rules of etiquette which will create for them an atmosphere of ''ease'"' and "know how." A large percentage of our boys and girls will be called on missions in various parts of the world. Courtesy is one of the chief ingredients for successful proselyting. Cleanliness, pleasant personality, interest in people, knowledge about their assigned field of activity, knowledge of the gospel message, respect for authority, dignified congeniality are all essential elements of good manners. Parents should send their sons and daughters into the mission field with all the training possible to meet their assignments and with attributes and attitudes which will ultimately bring about the successful fruition of their efforts. Missionaries reflect their home training. As representatives of their home and Church, they need all the fortification that parents and teachers can give. Mothers, who usually spend more time with the children than fathers do, could make it a point to teach and emphasize the rules of behavior. Repetition is a significant factor in teaching. A mother with several children should ask each one, in turn, how he would act under a given circumstance. It could become a game and be great fun. Different situations could be acted out. Children love stage play. Father's help is always necessary whenever his time is available. But father's best teaching is by example. His kindness, politeness, thoughtfulness, and helpfulness are all different shades of courteous demeanor. Parents could make up a list of courtesy projects for their families and set a special time for their consideration and study. A part of each Family Hour would be an ideal time for a well-organized program with discussion and assignment as part of it. A list of subjects might be provided to help each child feel at ease under certain general conditions. When a child makes a mistake the embarrassment he suffers sometimes is harder on him than pain. To teach a child how to act on these general occasions will help him also to adapt to related ones with poise and self-confidence. Each parent's study list may be different, but some general subjects to work on could be: politeness in the home, the neighborhood, at church, at a party, at a picnic, out camping, in public places, among friends, in school, table manners, manners on the telephone, answering the door, greeting friends and strangers, and introductions. There are, of course, many more. See how the list grows! There is no phase of life but what the display of good manners can improve. Children need to be taught and disciplined in the ways of social behavior in order to protect themselves under trying and awkward situations. It is heartwarming to parents to see their child perform well in the realm of courtesy and hear him say, "I feel that I handled what could have been an embarrassing situation quite well. Thanks for your training. So grateful that you taught me." NOTE: See also the Work Meeting Lessons for 1961-62 "Attitudes and Manners," by Elaine Anderson Cannon. 727 wsdtye e CHAPTER 1 Sprinc had come early in Heidelberg. The gentle April breeze, coming down from the mountainside, brought a mingled fragrance of wood violets and pine. Elsa paused in her quick walking long enough to tuck a stray curl into the blue kerchief that held her blond locks and then hurried on. She was glad that she had to pick up the figurine from Frau Schettler. It gave her a chance to go by the great Central Station and that was always worth any extra time and energy. The train from Munich would just be arriving, and it was exciting to see the people who had come. Be- 728 The 4 Turn, of the \WWheel Mabel Harmer sides the tourists and students, there were everyday folk like herself, except that they were fortunate enough to be able to travel somewhere — anywhere. Even to herself she could not explain her '"'wanderlust" — her yearning to visit faraway places — or not so far away. Her mother often chided her, "'For shame! You live in one of the most beautiful cities in the world — one of the most romantic. Why can you not be happy and satisfied here?" "T am happy," Elsa agreed. "I know that Heidelberg is beautiful. It may be romantic, but not for me — so far. Anyway, to be content I must see other parts of the world." She did not add that her mother had never been outside of Heidelberg, except perhaps to Frankfurt, or to Mannheim — a mere ten miles away, and therefore was not the best qualified judge in the world. She turned into the walk to the Schettler home and lifted the iron knocker. She hoped that she would not have to wait. There was just time enough to get to the shop. She was relieved to hear Frau Schettler's heavy tread on the stairway. 'Ah, it is you!" she said, opening the door. 'Do come in. You will see that the Hoop-la does not belong in my room at all." "IT really haven't time,' Elsa replied. "It is quite all right, of course. If you do not like this, you are welcome to choose something else." But no, Frau Schettler would not let her go. Elsa must come in and see the figurine on the mantel. She quickly agreed that the sprightly Hoop-la had no place among the heavy ornaments that overloaded the room. Frau Schettler took the figurine and wrapped it in some tissue paper. "Tell Herr Klopfer that I will be in later this week. And thank you for coming by." E tsa took the package and hurried away. Now she would have time for no more than a glance at the stream of people coming from the station. A clock struck the half hour. She would have to hurry to get to the shop by nine. Herr Klopfer was tolerant of some things, but not tardiness. It would be no use to explain that she had been delayed by an errand for the shop. He would THE TURN OF THE WHEEL retort that she should have started earlier. She walked down to Bismarkplatz. Everywhere there were flowers. Pansies, with their innocent, upturned faces, and tulips, splashing the green with their gay spring colors. She turned on MHauptstrasse and walked past the small garden with the large trees — a part of the University. Ordinarily she would have paused to enjoy the fragrance, but there was no time for that now. She saw the tall American soldier standing in front of the House of the Giant, gazing up at the statue. As she tried to walk by, he turned abruptly, knocking the figurine to the pavement. "Oh," she cried, raising both hands to her cheeks and staring in dismay. "T'm sorry. I guess it's broken." "T'm sure it is," she replied rather stiffly, stooping down to pick up the package. He tried to forestall her, but she said, "No, thank you. I['ll get it." Her tone clearly implied that he had done damage enough. "Pll pay for it, of course," he said quickly. 'How much?" "T'm not sure. I'll have to ask Herr Klopfer. I work in his gift shop." She started down the street again, walking so swiftly that she almost kept ahead of the soldier in spite of his long stride. "T'm glad you speak English," he said. "It will make it easier to clear up this accident — I hope. You say you work ina gift shop?" "Ves," 729 OCTOBER 1964 "My name is Clay Knowlton." He hesitated, waiting for her to speak, and after a brief pause, she said, "I am Elsa Breinholt." "T have just arrived here," he went on. "That's why I was gazing so intently. But I guess that I don't have to try and see everything the first day. [I'm hoping to get up to the castle soon. This sure is a fascinating city." '"Veas,'' "T'll likely be stationed here for two years. I guess that I can see a lot in that time." Esa merely nodded, and neither spoke again until she said, "This is the shop. Herr Klopfer will be in. He always comes early." He followed her inside and half smiled as the grizzled old gentleman looked first at the girl and then significantly at the clock. "It was all my fault," he began. But Elsa _ interrupted, saying, "Herr Klopfer does not speak English. I will have to explain." She did so quickly and then turning to Clay said, "It will be twelve dollars." "Uh, thanks. That's not at all bad. I thought it might be two or three times that much." He brought out his wallet and extracted the bills. "American money okay?" "Yes, indeed."' Elsa smiled for almost the first time since their encounter. She handed the money over to Herr Klopfer and then went to a rear room to remove her coat and scarf. When she returned the soldier was still there. "Mind if I look around a bit?" he asked. "You sure have a lot of nice stuff here, Miss Breinholt. 730 I'll be wanting some things to send home. My kid sister would sure go for these cute little." "Hummels," Elsa told him. "Yes, they are interesting." He looked around for a few minutes longer and then said, "Well, thanks a lot. I hope that I run into you again." Both laughed, and after he had left Elsa began her daily task of dusting the figurines. "A fine looking young man," observed Herr Klopfer. "Yes. He has just arrived. He said that he would be back — but, of course he won't."' "Why do you say that?" "He'll soon find that he can buy anything that we have at the PX on the Base — so why should he come back here?' "T can think of one very good reason,' replied Herr Klopfer, his blue eyes twinkling. Elsa merely shrugged and went on with her work. Just the same, when the first customer came in, she was greeted with a cheerier smile than was usual. Each morning after that, as she passed the House of the Giant, she glanced up at the statue on the third story and wished she could ask him if the tall American had been by that way again. She rather thought she would not have minded "running into him" providing she was not carrying any figurines. Own Sunday she joined her mother and younger sister Maria, in their long walk to the branch chapel. Since the mother was not a fast walker, they had to start early, but no one minded in the lovely spring weather. As they came near, they saw some of their German friends arriving on foot, or on their bicycles. The Americans, who mostly came from the military base, and met upstairs, came in their automobiles. "When I ride to church it will be in a car,' announced Maria. "Good," said her mother. "Then you need not bother to save any longer for that bicycle you have been wanting." "Oh, yes, I shall want both," answered Maria airily. They smiled and spoke greetings to the members going inside. Just beyond the chapel door Brother Horning, the branch president, met them and said, "Here is a newcomer I want to introduce. Brother Karl Ernst has just come _ here from Munich."' They shook hands with the beaming young man and greeted him happily. A new member was always most welcome — especially one who held the Priesthood and could help with the ordinances in the branch. Later, when the service was over, Karl walked out into the foyer with them. 'When did you arrive?" asked Elsa. "Only Thursday." "Then you have not yet found time to learn whether or not you will like it here." "Indeed, I have! This is the most beautiful city I have ever seen. Like is not nearly a strong enough word. Everything is coming along so well. Already I have a place to stay — and the promise of work. It is almost too good to believe." "Yes, it is wonderful here. No one could want anything better," said Sister Breinholt with a meaningful look at Elsa. Then, suddenly, "Perhaps you THE TURN OF THE WHEEL would honor us by coming home to dinner." "Yes, indeed, if I do not impose upon you." "Not at all.'"' She took Maria's arm and started out, leaving Karl to follow with Elsa. They had just started to leave when Elsa glanced up the stairway and saw the American soldier coming down. In her surprise she hesitated long enough for him to catch up with them. "Well, if this isn't luck," he exclaimed. "'You didn't tell me that you are a Latter-day Saint." "You didn't ask," smiled Elsa. "And I could say the same of you." She introduced Karl, stating that he had arrived that week from Munich. "Wonderful!"" exclaimed Clay. "T hope that you like it here as much as I do!" Gar., whose knowledge of English was very limited, answered with a broad smile and an enthusiastic "Jawohl!"' They all said goodbye and walked outside where Sister Breinholt and Maria were waiting. The four of them started to walk down the street, but had gone less that a block when an auto drew up to the curb and Sergeant Knowlton leaned out. "How about a lift?" he called. '"There's just room for the five of us." Elsa might have declined, but Maria answered, "Oh, yes! We were just hoping for a_ ride," and started at once for the front seat. The others stepped in the rear and Elsa introduced her mother and Maria to Clay Knowlton and gave him their address. 731 OCTOBER 1964 "You have done very well to acquire an auto so soon," Elsa said. "T haven't," he answered cheerfully. 'This was borrowed for the day from a buddy who would rather sleep than go to church — the poor misguided soul. Anyway, I'm glad that it was he and not I who stayed at camp. Coming to church was a real thrill. I understand that the men in our corps helped out a little in the building." "Yes. More than a little. They were a great help. And we have been so happy to have them for our neighbors ever since." They arrived at the modest Brienholt home much too soon for everyone. For a moment Elsa was afraid that her mother, or even Maria, might invite the American also to stay for dinner. But they merely thanked him heartily for the ride and said goodbye. Elsa soon learned that she need not have worried about her mother offering any entertainment to the American. Her interest was all in Karl. He proved to be an entertaining as well as a highly appreciative guest. He told them of the branch in Munich and how it had grown since the end of the war. "We also enjoy the help and companionship of the Americans," he said. "It is wonderful that we can all be friends again." "Yes," agreed Sister Brienholt. "Life is good now. Compared to many places, it has always been good here. Our beautiful city is much as it was even before the war. And there is work for everyone. Maria is employed at a typesetting plant. Elsa has a good job at a gift shop." 732 CGarv's face lit up. "Yes, it is true there is work for everyone. No sooner did I arrive than I was offered a job. I repair typewriters." "That is fine!' Sister Breinholt was all smiles. "And the more you see of our city, the better you will like it. You must go up to the top of Konigstuhl. I will pack a lunch and Elsa will be glad to show you the wonderful view of the city and the valley." Elsa blushed. She hoped that Karl could not read her mother's intentions as easily as she could. Here was a fine young man — handsome, and a member of the Church. He would make a good husband for her daughter. Then she would forget her foolish notions of wanting to travel to other places — including America. It was all quite providential. "You are off work by five tomorrow — are you not?" she asked Elsa. "Maria can bring down the lunch and it is close to the funicular railroad. You could meet Elsa there at the shop, perhaps?" Elsa was speechless at this blatant arranging, but Karl was not. "Yes, indeed," he agreed, his smile lighting up his face again. They all walked back to the chapel for sacrament meeting that evening, and Elsa forgot her annoyance with her mother in the sweet spirit of the meeting. As she sat at the organ playing the final hymn, she glanced down and thought, Mother is right. No one should want anything better than what we have here. The next evening Maria appeared at the shop at ten min- utes of five. Karl came almost immediately behind her. As they left and she handed him the lunch basket, he said, "Surely this is not just for two!" "T could join you," said Maria quickly. Then, with a mischievous grin, she added, "But I won't." They both walked over to the funicular railroad. Elsa wondered if Karl had the money for the ride and suggested, "We could walk up, you know. It isn't such a hard climb — and it's a lovely evening." "Oh, no! I want to try this straight-up railroad," he replied. "Perhaps, if it is still light enough, we can walk down." He bought tickets and they settled themselves in the straightup railroad car. It took only a few minutes to reach the top, and from there they took a path along the side of the mountain until they came to a lovely spot where there was a clear view of the river and the valley below. "Will this do?" asked Elsa. Karl took a deep breath. "Ah, this would do to stay forever! Never have I seen so much beauty." "We can't very well stay forever," she replied, smiling, "Although, from the looks of this lunch, that is what Mother had in mind. However, we can come back again." "Oh, I do hope so. I hope that we can come often." Elsa laid papers on the grass and the snowy cloth over them. She drew forth sandwiches made from crusty rolls and leftovers from yesterday's meat. There were pickles, cheese, and some small fancy pastries. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL THEY ate almost in silence. Below the Neckar River wound its way through the lush valley to join the Rhine. The green of the mountainsides was broken near the base by the spacious grounds and dull red battlements of the ancient castle. "You were very fortunate during the war," observed Karl. "Your city was not hurt." "Yes," Elsa agreed. "In that we were fortunate." "In other ways—not so much?" he asked gently. "I was too young to remember much about it. We lost our father. Maria does not remember him at all. He was a good and kind man." "Yes. It is well to remember always the good — and to have the good to remember." Turning to look down at the Neckar again, he said, "I should like to take a trip some day up the river. It must be most enchanting." "Yes," Elsa agreed. "But I want to go the other way. I want to go down where the Neckar joins the Rhine and then on to the ocean." — "And then.:.?" "Oh, on across the ocean, of course." "And on around the world and back to Heidelberg," he went on, as if it were all a fantasy. "Of course," she answered lightly. After finishing lunch, they walked up the path a_ short distance. Then Elsa said, "If we start now, we can take one of the roads back to town. It is a delightful walk — when one is going downhill." "Then let us go." He stopped where they had lunched and gathered a dozen small stones. 733 OCTOBER 1964 Then he put them in a little heap. "What in the world is that for?" she asked. "To mark the spot — the most beautiful in the world. So that we can find it when we come again." "And do you think the stones will stay? The first small boy who comes along will use them to toss down the side of the mountain." "So? Well, it does not matter. It is marked well enough up here."' He tapped his forehead. Elsa smiled and started down the path. Before they reached town, the first lights had begun to flicker. They lit up the Old Bridge above the dark river and an occasional building at the University, where some students were still at work. Karl reached for her hand and his grasp was warm and sure. There was strength and stability in this man. She glanced down at the river where the boats were floating slowly down towards the Rhine and withdrew her hand. Her heart was in one of those boats — floating down towards the Rhine. (To be continued) Linnie M. Findlay Earth's gift of life is rich and full Free given, not yet earned; Some time to hear earth's wisdom, To ponder lessons learned. The call to share in freedom's light, The reaching up for truth, The growth of giving service, The charge of leading youth. The comfort of a place called home, Warm joys of family, Familiar soil where flowers grow, A garden and a tree. Bewildered by earth's generous gift That grows from year to year — Stretch wide my understanding Of my full purpose here. 734 Literature Lessons "Y ou'll find the lesson previews in the June issue of the Magazine,' said the president of the Relief Society, "in case you want to get started on them this summer. And thank you so much. I am sure you will thoroughly enjoy conducting the literature lessons." I saw her to her car, then returned to the living room and sat down, completely overwhelmed. "What is the matter with me? I should have told her I couldn't do it. Surely she could have found someone more qualified than I, someone whose education is not so limited, and Vilate R. McAllister who doesn't tremble in fear before a group of people." But she had been so sure it was inspiration that led her to me and, after all, I do have plenty of time, a boon not everyone enjoys. "It will be a matter of lots of study," I told myself, and went in search of that June issue. I read the preview, consisting of a short introduction and a listing of the subject each month, together with the objective for each lesson. A feeling came over me that I recognized as from a past experience. It was the feeling I had when I first came to Salt Lake City, and, having been 735 OCTOBER 1964 informed that the east side of the city is rimmed with canyons, whose streams furnish water for the thirsty valley below, had been driven around Wasatch Boulevard, past the mouths of seven or eight canyons, each one being named as we came to it. A glimpse, surely, but only a glimpse of the wonders in store for me when I should come to drive into the canyons, explore them, and make them mine. I could hardly wait for the July issue, so I could "drive" into that first lesson. Finally it arrived, and I turned immediately to the lesson, something I had never done before. Avidly I read it, and again experienced a nostalgic feeling, the emotions I had on my first drive into Big Cottonwood Canyon. I remembered the exhilaration, the fresh air, the sunshine, the crags and forested slopes, the gurgling stream, the winding road with a fresh vista at every turn. With slight variations, I had experienced the same never-to-be-forgotten thrills, as I had opportunity later to visit each canyon in turn. But I knew that first drive had not prepared. Me to be a guide to others on a scenic trip, any more than the first cursory reading of the lesson prepared me to guide a roomful of Relief Society sisters into the joyous experience I felt was in store for them. Since it seemed a moment for profitable meditation, I allowed myself to go back into my later experiences with the canyons. I had met an artist, who had pointed out to me the magnificence of certain peaks, the changing lights and seasons, the shadows of the 736 forest, the picturesqueness of small scenes along the stream, with the overhanging boughs and churning water. On another occasion, a naturalist had called my attention to various and numerous flora and fauna, all pursuing the purposes of their creation scarce observed by man. He identified a rare bird call, which I learned to recognize for myself. He showed me wild flowers, which sent me to the library for fascinating books on the subject. A geologist interpreted the various formations and their history as he read it, and gave me helpful pamphlets. A_philosopher-poet quoted Wordsworth and Bryant and Edna St. Vincent Millay. A historian told me of prehistoric people who roamed the canyon, and of early-day happenings. The Mormon pioneers had _ carved crude trails where now were excellent roads. They had held celebrations here. They had hauled granite from these ledges under almost impossible conditions, to build their temple. Once many mills dotted these streams from which they drew power to make flour, paper, lumber products, and other things to help conquer the wilderness. An agriculturist told me of the wealth that came from the diverted streams to the farms _ below. These and many more experiences had added to the richness of my acquaintance with the canyons, which gradually came to be a part of me, and I finally was able to take my visiting friends there, and give them much more than just a quick glimpse of the scenic drive. As I reflected on these things, a flash of inspiration almost con- Sure we Would Stake not uSe too many, Iscovered that Night, that Ww 400unded right to Inexpensive e €gin the les Ould be just often to c] Se it. Son, or more €ach r ding brought Tenewed y ersta ding and dis Ssue, and found that very of richness and aning "verywhere | turned Te quotes Ih Missed before. Now I Was OCTOBER 1964 really bringing something of myself to it. The lessons, like my canyons, were coming alive with all sorts of fascinating facets and possibilities. As the president had foretold, I found myself thoroughly enjoying my class, so thoroughly that the members of my family often goodnaturedly commented that "Mom eats and sleeps and breathes literature." Which is - - Beauty probably true. But how else can one make it truly a part of oneself, to the point where, after a lesson, some of the sisters express a desire to get hold of a precious book and read more? That, dear sisters, is the goal, the dream, and the crowning reward of being a literature leader, and makes any amount of effort splendidly worthwhile. Rowena Jensen Bills Beauty lies in dew-filled roses, Mystery of violets kissed by rain, ) Nostalgic summer moon imposes Along a magic lover's lane. Beauty lies in the mind matured, In the loneliness our memories fill, In patience that has Jong endured, And in the humility of a tempered will. Beauty lies in the hush of sorrow, Music of laughter, the brink of tears, Beginnings of gold-dawned tomorrows, And in the passing of love-shared years. 738 The Good Fountain Bailey Joyce B. Don and Rita drove in silence, both of them staring without seeing the shadow and sunlight mixing in dappled green on the trees in the canyon. Rita glanced cautiously at her husband. His jaw was set, and she knew the hurt in his face was real. If only he weren't so stubborn. Now he has ruined our vacation right at the beginning, she thought. We'll be miserable the whole week. Pursing her lips, she turned her head to look out the window. The mountains reached above them, massive and breathtaking in their cotton-cloud dresses. The road ahead of them curved and twisted in daring fashion against the sides of the jutting rock. Don was driving expertly, as he always did, but she held her breath as he pressed his foot down on the accelerator, whirling them around curves, blurring the thick stands of pine trees, and pressing her against the side of the car. She opened her mouth to say something to him, but she changed her hind. Let him drive faster if it made him feel better. 739 OCTOBER 1964 She was not going to give in on this thing. Even Don _ himself had admitted, time and again, that it was risky to stop for hitchhikers along the road. "VYou're just asking for trouble," Rita had said only last week when Don stopped to pick up a shabbily dressed man on the freeway. "My car broke down," the man told them, indicating the fenderless clunk at the side of the road, and Don: had given her that "Aren't you ashamed?" look. "Well, he could have been a robber!" she argued defensively, after they let the man off at a garage. "But he wasn't." Don grinned at her, then, and they laughed together. This was different. They were on their vacation. Don only had a week, and Rita didn't want to spend it picking up hitchhikers. They were going to Lake Dorn, and their two-seater sportscar, Don's first anniversary surprise, was loaded with camping gear and sleeping bags. There just isn't room for any extra passengers, she thought, as the little car sped up the canyon to the high mountain lake. "Honey?" said Don tentatively. He looked at her quickly. "Honey, I know it's risky to stop for hitchhikers. All I said was 'What would we do if we had a breakdown or an accident or something? What if no one would stop for us? Isn't it the charitable thing to stop and offer aid when someone needs it?" "T just don't want to talk about it. We aren't going to break down or have an accident, so it's pointless to talk about it. Besides," she said, after a pause, 740 "we'd never know if the trouble was real or only pretended." "Honey, I'm sure the Lord would let us know in some way. You know the scripture in Moroni about the good fountain. It can't bring forth bitter water." "No, I don't remember it, and I don't want to discuss it." "You're being very stubborn, Rita," he said seriously. A smile suddenly erased his frown. "But let's not let it upset our good time. All right?" "All right." Rita smiled back. "T hope we make the lake before dark. I'm starved!" "Can you cook in the dark?" They both laughed. Everything was fine again, almost. Rita felt her spirits lift, and the feel of the road turning under them and the fresh smell in the air made her want to sing. She started to hum, and soon she and Don were singing a hymn. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; Lead thou me on." The afternoon sun through the windshield made Rita drowsy. She slept for awhile, with her head on her arm. A thumping jolt shook her to a sitting position. ""What's the matter?" "A bad hole in the road. The car's all right, but it looks like some rough road ahead — and dusty. Better roll up your window." Down slowed the car and eased it into a rugged dirt section. "That sign we saw said there was construction for five miles. We're in for a hot, bumpy ride." Don rolled kis own window up, and the little car bucked and humped over the roughly graded road. "Don! What's that?" Rita straightened in the seat. In the swirling dust ahead of them, a figure waved frantic arms. A car was parked by the roadside. "Somebody's in trouble." Don looked at Rita. "Shall we stop?" She bit her lip. The figure in the road was a woman dressed in a denim suit. She really did appear to be distressed, but what if it were a trick? Don was slowing down, but still he glanced at her, waiting for some change of expression. '"'We have to stop," said Rita, finally, and Don pulled off the road behind the parked car. The woman ran to Don's side of the car and leaned against it, breathing heavily. Rita could see that she was an older woman with streaks of white in her hair. She looked very tired. "Thank you for stopping. My husband's up there. " She pointed upward to an outcropping of jagged boulders above the line of trees. '"'He's hurt, and I can't drive to go for help." At her words, Don looked inquiringly at Rita. "T'll stay here," she said. "I'm not much for climbing." He got out of the car and_ started through the brush at the side of the road. The woman followed him. Rita sat in the car, watching them scramble over loose rocks and. Gravel, pushing aside clinging brush, until they disappeared down the incline. "This ought to delay us an hour or more," she said to herself, feeling the bitterness catch in her throat. "And all because Don has to be charitable! 'Charity begins at home.'" She said the oft-repeated words aloud. Begins at home. Yes, perhaps it does. THE GOOD FOUNTAIN She thought of the passage from Moroni Don had mentioned. She did recall it now. "For behold, a bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth bitter water." She remembered, too, Moroni's message at the end of that chapter. Charity, the pure love of Christ. The bitterness drained away and she thought of the woman — she had such tired, desperate lines in her face. With sudden decision, Rita opened the car door and went to the edge of the road. There were no cars in sight in either direction, but a thick layer of dust hung in the air, choking her and coating the leaves with a fine covering. The sun pressed hotly on the top of her head. I can't wait here, she thought. I'll roast to death. The man might really need help. Sue followed the trail of broken twigs and crushed undergrowth down a steep slope, to the edge of a tiny streamlet. She jumped across it and looked for a sign to tell her where the others had gone. The trees whispered in a delicate, cooling breeze, but she could see no trace of her husband and the woman. She felt a sudden panic and struggled to overcome it. Silly! She thought. If I just look carefully, I'm certain to find where they have gone. She studied her quiet surroundings, straining to see into deep shadows. Perhaps I can see a footprint or something, she thought. The ground beneath her feet was hard and dry, rippled with rock. Then she saw the dangling finger of a bent twig, swaying slightly, as if it were pointing the way. 741 OCTOBER 1964 She went closer to the tree, and in the soft earth beneath it, she could see the imprint of Don's canvas shoe. Sighing with relief, she pulled her way past the tree and started up the incline. Above her nearly a hundred feet were the boulders where the injured man lay. Rita could see nothing of her husband or the woman. She began pulling herself up the side of the canyon wall, digging her shoes into the dirt and carefully testing each branch and twig before she allowed it to hold her full weight. Before she had gone ten feet, perspiration was running down her face, and her blouse was smudged and streaked with dirt. She stopped for a moment to wipe her face with her hand. How could that woman have climbed this slope? Rita was young and strong, but her muscles were taut and trembling with exertion. A few feet above her the hillside became more rocky, with less brush, and the going was easier. Now, above her, she thought she heard Don's voice. She gazed up, but a large, angled piece of granite obstructed her view. Impatiently, she tried to pull herself up over the rock. Her handhold slipped, and she dropped off the rock and fell heavily on her leg. Stunned, she sat, not knowing quite what to do. Her ankle throbbed violently and made her gasp with pain. "What a stupid thing to do!" she said aloud. When the pain subsided a bit, she wiggled her toes. Finding no increase in pain, she moved to get her weight off the leg. She tested her ankle gingerly. It was all right. Thank goodness! She had bruised the 742 outside of her foot on a sharp rock. Her leg was able to hold her up, so she dusted herself off and started upward again. The voice was louder now, and she called to Don. "Rita? What are you doing down there? I thought you were going to stay in the car." She heard him scrambling down the rocks above her. He appeared on the rock from which she had fallen and jumped down to her. "What are you doing here? You aren't the hiking kind, remember?" "T'm not," she agreed, still feeling the bruise on her ankle. "But I couldn't just sit there. Besides, I thought I might be able to help." "Well, I'd have trouble getting him down alone. I'm going to have to go for help. Can I count on you to look after them? Mrs. Harding doesn't seem too well, either."" She nodded her head. Go for help? That will take hours, Rita thought. Precious hours of our vacation time. Precious hours of the man's life, too, she reminded herself, and she climbed after Don's_ vanishing figure. Mir. Harding lay on a ridge of granite, amid piles of loose rocks and earth. Don boosted his wife the last few feet over the ledge, and she felt alarm and fear at the sight of the man's face. It was covered with dried blood, and bits of dead leaves and dirt clung in hardened clumps. The skin beneath was gray. Mrs. Harding sat at his head with her hand on her husband's shoulder, looking as if she might faint at any moment. Rita went to her and took her arm. "Don is going to go for help, Mrs. Harding." The woman looked up at her, not seeming to understand. "I'll stay here with you until he brings someone back. Everything will be fine." As she heard herself say the words, she felt a quiver of uncertainty. Everything will be fine, you hope. The afternoon sun was rapidly sliding behind the tops of the mountains, the breeze that so gently brought relief from the heat of the road now chilled the waiting women. Shadows reached at them with dark hands. What if Don didn't return before it grew dark? Rita was not at all sure she could keep calm. Mrs. Harding had not spoken since Don left, and she had given up trying to converse with her. She jumped at a strange sound. She had been sitting on a rock not far from Mrs. Harding, and now she felt the older woman clawing at her arm. "It's all right, Mrs. Harding. Everything's fine.' But it was not fine. Something in Mrs. Harding's face told her that. It was Mr. Harding. Rita went over to him. He was moaning. She knelt beside him and touched his face and hands. They were cold, and he was trembling and breathing rapidly. I've got to get him warm, she thought. She hadn't even the sweater she had brought along for cool nights at the lake. The Hardings were both in short sleeves. There was nothing she could use for warmth, and the wind began to billow the trees with its stirring. A fire, she thought suddenly. If I could only build a fire. She carried no matches, and her pockets were empty. Quickly, she THE GOOD FOUNTAIN went through Mr. MHarding's pockets. A pocket knife, some loose change, a handkerchief... No matches. A swift questioning of Mrs. Harding brought forth a lipstick, a pocket comb, and a crumpled tissue. Well, she thought, if the Indians could do it, there must be a way. She opened the pocket knife, pulling out one of the stiffly sprung blades inexpertly. She searched the ground in the rapidly failing light and found two dry sticks. She stripped their bark with the knife, piling the shavings together on the ground, then she rubbed the two sticks together furiously, until her arms, unused to such activity, would go no more. She felt the sticks. They were barely warm. Disgusted, she threw them down and sat in the dirt. A hard, frightening lump began in her chest, and she knew the tears were not far behind it. Oh, dear Lord. Help me! If I don't find a way to get him warm, he may die, she thought desperately. In helpless anger at herself, Rita picked up a handful of the loose rocks and threw them, too, into the darkness. A shower of sparks as the stones struck a larger rock startled her out of her dismay. Sparks! Eagerly, she took up another handful and began striking them on a nearby rock. Each blow caused a tiny spark to fly into the night. She excitedly gathered her shavings together with Mrs. Harding's tissue, and holding them directly under the rock, she began to strike. Tensely, she knelt at her work, and in spite of the coolness of the 743 OCTOBER 1964 night air, perspiration trickled down her face. "Maddening little bits of fire," she muttered when the sparks flew everywhere but onto the shavings. Then, amazingly, one fell into the pile in her hand, and she watched in anxious suspense as the point of redness brightened. With great tenderness, she breathed onto it, and as if she had breathed the breath of life, the point separated and sprang into a circle, igniting the pieces of bark. When she at last saw the healthy yellow flame licking toward her hand, she knew she had succeeded. She pushed together a ring of stones with her foot and set her growing fire-child in the center. With its small illumination, Rita was able to find more dry sticks, which she shaved into her hungry fire. In the darkness she found some large branches, which she laid crosswise in the fire. She could already feel the heat of the flames warming her. Looking up from her labors, Rita saw Mrs. Harding bending over her husband, pulling him close to the fire. She hurried to help her, and soon they had placed him near the circle, and the older woman had cushioned his head in her lap. "He's all right,'"' Mrs. Harding said after awhile. "The fire has stopped his trembling."' Wonderful fire, Rita thought. "T think it's put a little courage in us all," she said. The older woman nodded, smiling down at her husband. Rita thought of the hymn she and Don had been singing earlier. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; lead thou me on!" Rita began to sing the words 744 again, softly to herself, as she poked the fire with a stick. To her surprise, Mrs. Harding's quavering high voice joined in with hers. "The night is dark and I am far from home; Lead thou me on!" Suddenly, behind her, she heard a movement among the rocks, and Don's grinning face came out of the mountain blackness. "Hil Did you think I wasn't coming back?" Rita fell into his open arms and hugged him, happily. "Oh, Don, you've been gone so long. It got cold, and I had to make a fire, and." She noticed the men standing behind her husband. "Sheriff Gunther, Deputy Walsh, this is my wife, Rita. There's the injured man," he said pointing to Mr. Harding. "Thank you, Mr. Gardner. I think Frank and I can get him down all right, if you'll see that the ladies get down safely." "Right," said Don, gripping Rita's shoulder. "Hey," he whispered. "How did you get that fire started? I didn't know you were a boy scout!" "There are lots of things you don't know about me, yet," Rita replied, laughing. "If we hadn't seen that fire and heard you singing, we might not have found you until dawn," said Sheriff Gunther. "It's pitch black." As the sheriff and Deputy Walsh made Mr. Harding comfortable in the back of the officers' station wagon, Mrs. Harding turned to Rita and took her hand. "We did a foolish thing, climbing alone up there. When James fell and I tried to stop the bleeding, I prayed that God would send someone to help me. He must have led you both to me. God bless you for coming up there with me." Say thank you to the good fountain, Rita thought, feeling her emotions swell. "Good luck,' Don called, as the station wagon pulled out onto the road. Then he took Rita's THE GOOD FOUNTAIN hand and opened the car door for her. "You know," he said, leaning over her, '"'that's some wife I've got."" And he kissed her. '"'We ought to make Lake Dorn by morning," he said, climbing into the car. "In time for breakfast, I hope," said Rita, snuggling against his shoulder. Wind Evelyn Fjeldsted The wind can be a gentle thing, Moving softly over furrowed lands, Singing songs to waken fields and streams, Bringing warmth from desert sands. Like voices from another world, Little winds come by at night, And like a harp of many strings, Express their concord or a greater might. The wind can transport passengers — Invisible and riding free; It can drift a sea gull on its course, And land a seedling to become a tree. Wind can make the shadows. Dance, Like marionettes in a moonlight trance. 745 They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society Maxine T. Grimm Dotorres Suarez was met in May 1963 by two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds of Mapleton, Utah, and Sister Smithen of Layton, Utah, in the city of Manila, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission. ''We began teaching her and her family," wrote the sisters. "The eldest daughter joined the Church, but Dolores herself did not have time to attend any meetings." Then the lady missionaries organized a small neighborhood Relief Society. They made special invitations which they handed out, announced the meetings in regular services, contacted other missionaries in the area for interested women, and made visits to their own contacts to be sure that everyone would feel welcome. A program was carefully planned to outline the history, duties, and responsibilities of Relief Society, and to explain the weekly lessons. Articles made by Relief Society members in the United States were brought by Sister Maxine Grimm to show the many skills taught in work meetings. She also brought an old pump organ she had used during the war to accompany Latter-day Saint servicemen for their meetings in New Guinea and the Philippines. This, plus borrowed chairs, made a temporary start in the home of the two lady missionaries, but it was an important beginning. They had covered one entire wall of the room with pictures, articles, and pamphlets showing the activities of all of the auxiliaries of the Church. Extra Relief Society Magazines were ready to be given out after this valuable Magazine had been shown to them. Twenty-five women arrived, and one man, who seemed a bit uncomfortable with all of the women, but remained until the end. Punch and cookies were served after the meeting, questions were answered, and invitations extended for the following week. Dolores Suarez attended this next meeting and seemed to take more interest. The following week the sisters began a training program. They taught all of those attending, the principles of leading the singing. Each used a bamboo baton to help her get the real spirit of conducting. Sister Suarez led one song by herself the following week and did well. The next week she conducted. At this meeting all the women present, over half of them nonmembers, bore their testimonies. Dolores Suarez, in bearing hers, showed deep emotion and sincerity. Dolores Magpayo Suarez was baptized September 14, 1963. The only meetings she had attended were Relief Society meetings. "Sister Suarez now attends every single meeting she possibly 746 Philippine Islands 3 b ro A WS i.) can," write the sisters. "She has many activities, and is a counselor to the Manila Branch Relief Society president, which makes her sort of 'President' of our department Relief Society in San Juan. She is a great strength to her own family, to us missionaries, and to other members. Her husband has joined the Church, and is the same way." They have eight children. They are both active in civic affairs, also. Sister Suarez is on the district Girl Scout Council and very active in that position — and very well loved and respected. She is one of the officers of a new committee in Quezon City designed to help the youth by giving them good activities and opportunities for leadership. She is active in politics, having been on the election committee as a registrar. She has a lovely voice; formerly, she sang on radio. Here, then, is a valuable Church member, who gained her testimony through Reliet Society. Wk ok ok OK THE Relief Society brought me into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," Rosalina Agana Honrado says. She began attending the dependent Relief Society of the Manila Branch, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission, with her neighbor Sister Salud Jamenez. Two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds and Sister Smithen, had been teaching two of Mrs. Honrado's nephews, but she had never heard any of the lessons. Mrs. Honrado was given an opportunity in Relief Society meeting to pray, lead the singing, and conduct the music, just as are the other members of Relief Society, whether they are members of the Church or not. She gave a strong testimony during the testimony meeting. Rosalina Agana Honrado asked to be baptized after attending only Relief Society meetings, without any lessons from the missionaries and without attending any other meetings. She obtained a testimony of the gospel through Relief Society. The two missionary sisters gave her the necssary lessons before she was baptized. Her nephews were baptized, and her daughter and a niece will soon join the Church. Sister Honrado is very active in the Church, is very humble, and is a good Latter-day Saint. | The missionaries write: "Our thanks for the Relief Society program and the tremendous lessons and possibilities for fellowshipping people." 747 Clay ua Kile Cliltber |. Gray morning mist haunts the little sidestreets. Morning's cool hush runs over their ground. Sunlight comes late to discover these places; Frost is upon them, a silver breath-bound. All the small houses are quiet, alike, Side-by-side, standing in trim yards of lawn From echo of schoolbell till bustle of playtime; These are the gray hours. The children are gone. Il. Sky-bright and summer-warm, noon barely paused. Now the gold motes dance in gold that was green, Spangle the sidewalks, impatiently glitter — But softly October winds puff, press, and preen. Poured like a tide into freedom from walls, Children surge over the sidewalks and grass — Run in and out of their eager-doored houses! Leaning long eastward, the slow shadows pass. Ill. Feathers of cloud line the wake of set sun A blue hour begins the unrolling of night. Once more deserted, the play-yards lie silent, Outlined by picket fence, ghostly in white. Dark brings a chill premonition of frost. The matched rows of houses draw back from their gates, Holding the children safe-guarded inside them. A querulous cricket chirrups... And waits. 748 Ramona W. Cannon MRS. HELEN G. CASSIDY, wife of Brigadier General Patrick F. Cassidy, Chief of Staff, Seventh Corps, Stuttgart, Germany, is the new director of volunteers for the American Red Cross in the European area. She will be the leader of approximately 3,200 Red Cross volunteers in Europe, the United Kingdom, and in the Middle East. Mother of six children, Mrs. Cassidy has still been able to allocate many hours of each week to this important voluntary service. AMONG the many valuable bulletins on homemaking published by the United States Government, and available from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., is the compilation of food plans, costs, nutritional tables, and recipes, Family Food Budgeting for Good Meals and Good Nutrition (price 10c). THE WOMEN'S BANK of Seoul, Korea, with a world-wide reputation, expects to open a branch in West Germany, where every third small business entrepreneur is a woman. This bank, catering exclusively to women, encourages them to save money. It welcomes small accounts and has a safe-deposit department and a safe-keeping service for jewelry. ALTHEA K. HOTTELL, former dean of women at the University of Pennsylvania, has expressed concern over the small percentage of women graduating from colleges in the United States. ''What disturbs most of us,"' she states, "'is that only about onefourth of the women capable of profiting from higher education are in college — a waste of talent this country can ill afford." SENORA ENRIQUETA GOMEZ de PEREZ, ninety-two, a former elementary school teacher of Venezuelan President Raul Leoni and also of his mother, was honored at a reception and 'ceremony at Maraflores Palace, Caracas, April 24. Among the distinguished guests, including the Minister of Education and Senora Leoni, she was decorated with a special medal for 'dedication to the teaching field for more than thirty years." GRACE BARKER WILSON, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of a third volume of poetry Stuff of Dreams (Merchants Press, Taylor, Texas). She was superintendent of the Central Consolidated School in Kirtland, New Mexico, for twenty-four years. 749 S, in forgetting Oneself jn the ing kindness blesses the giver his daughters might have all of tunities, the Lord Caused the Relief Society to b Retirements from the General Board Iv is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the retirement from the General Board oi Charlotte A. Larsen, Pearle M. Olsen, LaPriel S. Bunker, and Hazel S. Cannon. Charlotte A. Larsen has served on the Board since March 25, 1953. Throughout her eleven years of service she has performed her every assignment faithfully and with a high degree of excellence. Her appointments have been extensive and varied. She has served on all but one of the major educational committees, and freely given of her artistic talents for socials and conference presentations. She has given outstanding service in community assignments, as well as writing a series of Relief Society lessons on "Safety in the Home" as the result of her association with the Salt Lake Safety Council. For the last four years she has represented Relief Society on the Heart Association. Every request that has been made of Sister Larsen has been carried out well through her artistic endowments and capable leadership abilities. She has honored her calling in every way. Pearle M. Olsen was appointed to the General Board on February 19, 1958. She has assumed the responsibilities that have been given her wholeheartedly and with a meticulous care for detail. Her attention has especially been directed to the visiting teacher work and literature. Her love of the beautiful aided her in the service she gave to the work meeting program. For the past six years she has represented Relief Society on the Safety Council. She has manifested a deep love for Relief Society and has carried out every assignment with a sweet spirit and with great devotion to the work. Every talent with which the Lord has blessed her has been placed by Sister Olsen at the service of Relief Society. LaPriel S. Bunker was appointed to the General Board on June 1, 1960, and given a leave of absence when, soon after her appointment, her husband was called as mission president of the California Mission. On his release Sister Bunker again devoted herself to her calling on the General Board, until the present time when she is released to join her husband in his call as a counselor in the Salt Lake Temple Presidency. Sister Bunker had had a rich experience in Rehef Society work prior to her call to the General Board as both stake and mission Relief Society president. Her service on the Board includes a chairmanship of the work meeting committee, service on the literature committee, and as a member of the quarterly conference committee. Her love for Relief Society has been clearly manifest over the years. 752 Hazel S. Cannon was called to the General Board on February 1, 1962. She came filled with enthusiasm and a desire to do her best. She has entered zealously into every call which has been made upon her and devoted her outstanding capabilities to a successful completion of them. She is a school teacher by profession and her teaching ability has been at the disposal of the General Board in its teaching program. She has been given special work in the secretarial field and has valued her calling at all times. The General Board and the sisters throughout the Church whom these four sisters have served extend to them their love and appreciation with the prayer that their future callings may be joyous to them. The Golden, Golden Time Christie Lund Coles Now comes the hour of ripening, Rich and golden on the wheat; Amber-hued on pear-tree bough; Tinseled shade upon the street. Now, comes the rich fulfillment time: Orange pumpkins in the field; Gold-pink peaches on the bough; Sweet pearmain in yellow yield. Now, comes the golden, golden time; Aspens move in golden grace; Bird song lifts in golden notes; Gentle sun-warmth gilds the face. Dew on a Peace Rose Judy Paget Tumbaco, Ecuador Rosio, this rose began to burn And would have withered in the sun, Already its outer petals Are wide and low, But you came with enchanted fingers And cast a diamond net Of dreams upon its flesh, Sealing the perfume and the pain Within a silken heart. 753 Left to right: Ella Ellis Murray, President, North Ogden Fifth Ward Relief Society; Orba Ellis Brown, President, North Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society; Ora Ellis Bybee, President, Phoenix Sixth Ward Relief Society. Three of a Family Marvel M. Young President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society THE year 1963 brought an occasion of special importance to Relief Society, for when Sister Ella Ellis Murray was called to be Relief Society president in the newly created North Ogden Fifth Ward, in the Ben Lomond Stake, Utah, she became the third member of her family to serve as a president simultaneously. It is truly a rare coincidence that three sisters have been called to preside over three Relief Societies at the same time, in two different States. Sister Orba Ellis Brown has served as president of the North Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society, Ben Lomond Stake, for 754 several years, as has Sister Ora Ellis Bybee of the Phoenix Sixth Ward, Phoenix Stake, Arizona. These three sister presidents, in every word and every action reflect the wonderful religious training and deep spiritual background which they received in the home of their parents, Charles and Louise Southwick Ellis. May our lives reflect sweetly in the lives of our children, as have the lives and training of the parents of these three outstanding Relief Society presidents, who are doing a magnificent work among the daughters of our Heavenly Father. the Home Blessed Autumn Dorothy J. Smith L. OokING out my window I see the signs of a declining year. The shades of golden brown, yellow, and mixed green hues of autumn make me sigh, not a sigh of sorrow, but of relief. The busy year is nearing its close. Children have been home all summer with their noise and activity that go with the hot sultry days. Now they are back in school. The canning is nearly all done. The satisfaction that comes with knowing that you have provided for your family gives you a feeling of comfort. The rows of fruits and vegetables, with the red of berries, beets, and jam, the yellow and green of vegetables lend to the joy of accomplishment. Winter is a time of comparative rest, and we have a'short time to prepare ourselves for another season. The unbroken white blanket of snow on the fields is a restful sight to the eye, and to the spirit. Man is reminded that God is a merciful God. He gives all living things a time to rest, to rejuvenate, and to start over again. He has seen the necessity of rest and quiet. The soul needs a time to evaluate the meaning of its purpose, to look back and be proud, and have a chance to start again and be more perfect and bloom in the rebirth of spring, to grow through the busy months of summer and prepare for a time to rest and be quiet in the autumn of life. God, with his supreme wisdom, knows that man needs a time to sit back and enjoy the blessings of life and be thankful that Heavenly Father saw fit to let us take part in his plan in the seasons of life. Autumn, then, to me is a time of thanks, of quiet and rest. Blessed is autumn. 755 Ail Shirley Thulin HIAvE you ever been caught without a needle and thread or even a pin handy when you needed it most? Here is a clever and handy little homemade sewing kit to carry with you to prevent being caught unprepared. Take an old lipstick tube and clean it thoroughly. This is easy to do if you use cleaning tissue and roll it into a tube to wipe out the inside of the lipstick tube. Now use your pinking shears to cut a piece of flannel as wide as the lipstick tube and about two to three inches long. You can pin several tiny safety pins, two or three needles, and two or three straight pins in a row on the cloth. Take three or four toothpicks and break them off if they are a bit too long to fit in the tube. Wind a different color thread on each toothpick, using white, black, and perhaps a color nearest to the shade of the nylons you usually wear. Make a little split at the top of the toothpick to catch the end of the thread so that it won't unravel. Now place the toothpicks parallel to the needle and pins on the cloth and roll them all up as tiny as you can and the roll will fit right into the lipstick tube. Slip the lid on and you have a handy little kit that takes up practically no room at all. 756 Celia Wiliden Jensen - Artist of Rugs and Quilt a7 Ww eS | Wet « a & d # x Celia Willden Jensen, Mancos, Colorado, has practiced her delightful hobbies for enough years to keep her always busy and long remembered. She has been concerned for the welfare of women who "sit around just talking,'' instead of keeping busy with their hands. She has a special gift of piecing ''crazy-patch'' and patterned quilts and is very careful to sort the pieces according to weight and quality of the material, as well as considering the harmony of colors. She is an expert at arranging the batts and putting quilts on the frames. She has carded the wool and made the batts for many of her own quilts and, as work meeting leader in her ward, has been of great help to the young sisters who have been eager to learn the art of quilting from an expert. Mrs. Jensen is also an energetic maker of rugs, having cut and sewed ''miles of rug rags.'' In trying to recall the number of crocheted articles she has completed — bedspreads, tablecloths, and doilies — she says, ''l must have done acres of crocheting."" In her younger days she was a midwife, a maker of ''switches'' (hair pieces), a renowned housekeeper and gardener, and in her later years she has taken care of her grandchildren on numerous occasions so that the young mothers could attend to their Church assignments. In addition to her five children, she reared an orphan niece. In July 1964 she presided as Queen on Colorado Day at the Four Corners Inter-Tribal Pow-wow. 'That's true,'' she says, ''l was a seventy-nine-year-old queen."' 757 ARE you a mother who dislikes spending hard-earned cash for Halloween costumes? Well, if you are, you are just one of the majority. But what to do about it? October brings Halloween and Halloween means costumes. It is evident, from all the protests, that the pillow-slip ghost of yesteryear is no longer tolerated. This (priceless or centsless) ghost that was such a universal favorite of children forty years ago — the one grandma could rig up in five minutes and at no expense — is today an outcast and no longer considered good company. Every mother wants her child to look as nice as the next one, and have all the fun that life affords. But, three or four dollars is a lot of money to spend for a costume made of shoddy materials, that are literally thrown to- 758 The Centsless Ghost Has Gone Genevieve Van Wagenen gether, a gaudy, ill-fitting ''something-or-other" that will be worn once or twice, then discarded. It is not only a big expense but a real extravagance, if you have several children to outfit. There is one way to beat this extravagance — to cut expenses, yet let your child be the ''Grandest Goblin" in the Halloween parade, and, at the same time, add glamor to your child's life and wardrobe. One clever mother has been doing it for years. Her children love it — they wouldn't have it any other way. With a little ingenuity and thoughtful planning she has heaped compliments upon her children, Teachers and classmates alike have appreciated her unique and beautiful costumes. Costumes, did I say? Yes, but costumes just for today — tomorrow they are practical items of clothing. Some are glamor articles to spice up the wardrobe, to add comfort, enjoyment, and cultural development. Expensive? Not at all. According to this mother's own words, "I just can't throw money away on costumes. I came of pioneer stock, my money must work for me. Thrift is my middle name." For seventy-five cents she bought a remnant of heavy royal blue satin. There was sufficient yardage to make a pair of exotic, well-fitting pajama bottoms for nine-year-old Marilyn. Another remnant, a soft yellow satin with tiny rose and royal blue forgetme-nots scattered here and there, was just perfect for a "coolie coat" to go with the pajama bottoms. From the royal blue satin scraps, she made bias cording from which she fashioned "frogs" to fasten to the front of the "coolie coat'? And give a Chinese effect. Two full-bloom carnations made of paper were fastened over the ears. This completed the costume and transformed Marilyn into a beautiful little Chinese coolie maiden, and all for the humble price of $1.50. And the best part about it, Marilyn is still wearing the beautiful yellow and blue pajama outfit as a luxurious lounging ensemble. Christy, the little first grader, joined the Halloween parade in a darling Bo-Peep costume. Mother selected a gay flowered cotton print. She fashioned a tight fitting bodice, square neck, full gathered skirt, and perky ruffled sleeves. Bits of organdy and lace from the sewing box became an adorable little apron. Next, from some scraps, Mother made a wide black belt that graduated to points in front. This 759 OCTOBER 1964 was laced together with a long black shoelace that tied in a bow at the waist. The children fashioned a staff for Bo-Peep, tied it with a large bow, and Christy went to school the happiest BoPeep you ever saw. When the parade was over, Christy had a lovely little dress for church and school. Sandy was a sprightly Jack Frost. She appeared in a jaunty, peaked cap of bright green corduroy and a matching one-piece play dress with zippered front, to which mother had sewed handfuls of gaily colored artificial autumn leaves. Bright red stockings and fancy pointed elf shoes made of black oilcloth, which were run up in. Five minutes on the machine, completed her costume. Sandy's costume cost less than two dollars, and when the fun was over and the leaves removed, Sandy had a warm and comfortable play dress to wear through the winter. This play dress was such a boon to the wardrobe, it cut down on the ironing, and was always ready to wear. Sandy and Mother enjoyed it so much, Mother used the same pattern the following year. Only this time she purchased a bright yellow-orange corduroy, for the play outfit. Sandy went dressed as Prince Pumpkin. A large cardboard pumpkin was fashioned into a crown. Small colorful paper pumpkins with bright green leaves were arranged in an attractive design and sewed on the play suit. You, too, can have this pleasure. So, mothers, put on your thinking caps and join the thrift parade. Thrill your youngsters with pretty costumes and lovely practical clothes. Requited Bertha A. Kleinman | cannot soar with eagles on the ledge Of yonder peak above the glacier rim, But with the thrush that warbles in the sedge | can attune to list his vesper hymn. | cannot span the ocean's frothy foam To disembark on some enchanted strand, But flowing crystal laves the fields of home And sates my quest in this my native land. | cannot reach to hail the forest king That towers in his timbered aisle retreat, But where the fronded ferns entwine and cling, | share the royal mantle at his feet, And there upon the emerald coverlet, The sky is mirrored in the violet. 760 AS Mie a ht a t eee Shwe tetas a ceed Sale eS The Day After Halloweden Janice T.. Dixon it happens each October. I resolve that next year — definitely next year— we will buy the pretty little plastic jack-o-lanterns that light up with a flashlight battery. No more messy pumpkins! And each year when the pungent pumpkin odor fills the stores, and the memories of homemade jack-o-lanterns tug, I weaken — just a little bit. "We'll buy one small pumpkin," I tell the children. "Oh, brother! Look at this neat pumpkin!" nine-year-old Charles calls halfway across the store. "Shhhhh, dear, everyone is listening!" But his enthusiasm is _ not cooled by everyone's amused glances. ''Hey, I bet I could make a neat Frankenstein with this pumpkin." "It's too big. Let's have one little pumpkin with a pretty smiling face." *'Aaaaaa, who wants a smiling face? We want to scare everybody like this...."" He puts his fingers in his mouth and pulls a terrible face. I pretend he belongs to that nice woman next to me busy choosing eggplants. My act works until seven-year-old Steven tugs at my arm. "Charles always gets 761 OCTOBER 1964 to make the jack-o-lanterns. I never get to do anything!" "We'll all work together and make a pretty smiling face on our jack-o-lantern." "With cross-eyes and jagged teeth and a mouth that looks like this..."" Charles reminds me. "My pumpkin is going to have square teeth and round eyes," Steven insists. "Jagged teeth and cross-eyes," declares Charles. "TI want mine to thmile like me," lisps five-year-old Danny, who has just exchanged his front two teeth for two dimes with the tooth fairy. Three-year-old Lucy proudly carries a small round pumpkin in her arms. "Mine," she announces. What can I say, except, "You may each choose one small, tiny, little pumpkin." The storeman has to carry the pumpkins to the car. They are much too large for any of us to carry, except Lucy's pumpkin. "Mine," she says, still carrying hers in her arms. Of course our jack-o-lanterns are the "beautiful-est, the smilyest, the biggest, and the scariest.'"' Watching the children carve the faces on their pumpkins is much more fun than turning on a flashlight battery in a pretty plastic pumpkin. What pretty plastic pumpkin could match Charles' Frankenstein pumpkin, with jagged teeth and cross-eyes; or Steven's square - toothed, round-eyed pumpkin, or Danny's toothless pumpkin, with a smile to match his? And careful as Lucy was, somehow her jack-olantern's mouth and nose were joined together. One-year-old 762 Douglas had a bite of each masterpiece. AnD somehow I am coerced into finishing cleaning out the insides of the pumpkins, because, as Danny said, "It's too slippery!" But after Halloween, the jacko-lanterns line my kitchen sink, their brief night of glory forgotten by the children. The insides of the pumpkins are charred, and wax spots dot the bottom. There is nothing that smells quite like spoiled pumpkins, so I have my choice of throwing them out now, which disturbs my thrifty nature, or as always, to prepare them for freezing. With a sigh of resignation I wash each jack-o-lantern, trim off the charred places and wax dots. I cut each pumpkin in pieces, barely cover with water and boil until soft. Then I strain and freeze in plastic containers. I save out several cups of pumpkin and turn on the oven. "Oh, boy!" yells Steven, coming into the kitchen, "Pumpkin cookies! I get to make them!" "T want to bake my own recipe for pumpkin cake,"' says Charles. Both recipes are favorites of the family and are "child-proof" — at least in our family. The boys don't always sift ingredients, cream ingredients, or even measure accurately. Yet, despite all these handicaps, the pumpkin cookies and cakes are always successful. The recipes work equally well with fresh pumpkin, frozen pumpkin, or store-canned pumpkin. We usually triple the cookie recipe and make twelve dozen at a time. This way they last a couple of days. PUMPKIN COOKIES 14% c. Shortening 1% c. Sugar 1 egg 1 ec. Pumpkin \% c. Nuts lc. Raisins chocolate chips (optional) 2% c. Flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Soda Y% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Cinnamon Stir the shortening to soften. Gradually add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add egg and mix well. Sift flour, baking powder, seasonings, soda, and salt. Add to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Beat after each addition until smooth. Fold in raisins, chocolate chips, nuts, and vanilla. Or — throw in everything and stir cubscout style. Drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in 375° oven ten minTHE DAY AFTER HALLOWEEN utes. These cookies freeze well — if you have any left over. DIIAADIVIAL PAVE 14 ec. Shortening 14% c. Sugar. Baking powder. Cinnamon. Soda. Cloves. Salt 1 oc. Pumpkin (a little extra doesn't hurt) 1 4. Raisins, nuts Stir shortening to soften. Add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add eggs. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, soda, salt, and cloves together 3 times; add_ to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Add raisins and nuts. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 50-60 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, or plain, or frosted. Autumn Color After the Rains Eva Willes Wangsgaard Only fall rains could have brought this delight. In drouth years the leaves finish dusty and brown. Summer's thick foliage still vibrant and bright, Gleams like a prism or gems in a crown. Purple, maroon, red, through rose into gold, Contrast of fir and the deep green of pine, Beauty too vast for the senses to hold Spreads from the road to the far timberline. Bright as these pheasant cocks speeding for cover. Listen. Did you hear the flurry of quail? See that far peak where the dark cloudlets hover. A cold white replacement rides in on a gale. 763 Comparative Sritish and American Measures Sandra M. Covey Relief Society Supervisor, Irish Mission In the kitchen, American and English are different languages. An important difference is illustrated below in the measurement of fluid ingredients: BRITISH AMERICAN 1 pint 20 fluid ozs. 1 pint 16 fluid ozs. 1 measuring cup 10 fluid ozs. 1 measuring cup 8 fluid ozs. 1 tablespoon % to 1 fluid oz. 1 tablespoon % fluid oz. Approx. The standard British way of measuring is by pound and not cup as in America. One pound is the term used in British recipes, and the women convert from that. It is possible to purchase a set of measuring spoons and cups of standard American sizes, but, alternatively, a graduated half-pint measure marked in liquid ounces can be used. Ekco Ltd., make a plastic jug which gives both British and American measurements. The American measuring spoon (tablespoon) holds exactly a quarter of an ounce of flour, and in American recipes, a spoonful means a level spoonful. The following equivalents may prove useful: SOLID MEASURES BRITISH AMERICAN 1 ib. Butter or other fat 2 American cups 1 Ib. Flour 4 American cups 1 Ib. Sugar 2 American cups 1 Ib. Icing sugar 3 American cups 1 Ib. Brown sugar 2%2 American cups 1 Ib. Golden syrup 1 cup 1 Ib. Rice 2 cups 1 Ib. Dried fruit 2 cups 1 lb. Ground meat 2 cups 1 Ib. Lentils 2 cups 1 Ib. Soft bread crumbs 4 cups TABLE AND TEASPOON % ounce flour 1 level teaspoon 1 ounce flour 1 heaping tablespoon 1 ounce sugar 1 level tablespoon % ounce butter 1 level tablespoon 1 ounce treacle—golden syrup 1 level tablespoon 1 ounce jam, jelly 1 level tablespoon Available ingredients may be different from those used in the States and may affect the finished product. 764 COMPARATIVE BRITISH AND AMERICAN MEASURES FLOUR Where American cake recipes ask for a special cake flour, use the best quality white flour available—314 ozs. For every 4 oz. Specified. Graham flour: 100% wholewheat flour. LEAVENING AGENTS When following an American recipe: Either use 14% times the amount of baking powder specified in the recipe Or sprinkle the specified amount over the mixture before the last few strokes of mixing, then bake immediately. SUGARS In British recipes use castor (granulated) sugar except when another type is specified. The coarse-grained sugar used in most British recipes weighs more by volume than the finer sugar which is common in America. BRITISH AM TDmimAA! Icing sugar confectioner's sugar use black treacle molasses can be bought in this country or maple syrup "golden syrup' can be used. Soft moist brown sugar brown sugar Golden syrup can usually be substituted for corn syrup, sorghum, etc. Yeast one cake of compressed yeast=% oz. Of fresh yeast, or the equivalent of this in dried yeast. Gelatine: 1 envelope =% oz. Ordinary gelatine. MISCELLANEOUS MIXING A recipe calling for "two minutes beating" means by electrical mixer. By hand, 150 strokes are the equivalent of one minute in a mixer. SIZE OF TINS OR "PANS" These are standardized in America. Those in common use have the following measurements: Bread tin:—9 in. By 5 in. By 3 in. Deep square pan:—9 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep oblong pan:—12 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep round layer pan:—8 in. By 1% in. Deep or 9 in. By 2 in. Deep 8 oz. 1 cup sie No. 1 2 cups or 16 oz. CAN SIZE No. 2 2% cups or 20 oz. AMERICAN COOKERY TERMS AND THEIR BRITISH EQUIVALENTS BRITISH AMERICAN served with ice cream a la mode cheddar American cheese a scone biscuit roquefort blue cheese grill broil a soup, usually of fish, but may chowder be sweetcorn, mushroom, etc. Cornflour cornstarch a water biscuit cracker 765 OCTOBER 1964 BRITISH meited butter semolina fine semolina there is no exact equivalent, but AMERICAN drawn butter farina farola graham crackers they are rather like crispbread or unsweetened digestive biscuits mince hulled and coarsely ground corn or other meal okra, which is used to thicken soup small meringues salty biscuit, covered with icing and nuts to grill or roast and serve all on a plank of wood an open tart fillet steak large loin chop rusk crumbs grind grits gumbo kisses marguerite plank pie tenderloin tenderloin of lamb zwieback crumbs Recipes From Scotland Submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth Former President, Scottish Mission Relief Society CLOOTIE DUMPLING Phillippa Denard, President Dumfries Branch (Similar to Christmas Pudding, but is eaten the year round in Scotland.) 1 Ib. Self-rising flour (add 1 teaspoon baking powder per cup of plain flour) 4 oz. Shredded suet 1 Ib. Mixed fruit (dried) 2 oz. Mixed peel (sugared) 1 teaspoon mixed spices 1 teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon cinnamon 766 Aa nm 2 naciiramante fannrnvir 4 cups self-rising flour % cup shredded suet 2 cups mixed fruit (dried) Ye cup mixed peel (sugared) RECIPES FROM SCOTLAND 1 Ib. Treacle (molasses) 1 cup treacle (molasses) 1 cup sugar (8 02.) 1 cup sugar about 1 cup milk (10 oz.) 1 cup milk, plus 2 oz. Mix all dry ingredients. Then mix in treacle. Mix in enough milk to make a soft dough (about like biscuits). Have a large, clean, white cloth about 30" square. Flour the cloth well. Turn the dough onto the well-floured cloth. Pick up the four corners and tie the cloth with a piece of string. Leave enough slack in the cloth to allow the pudding to swell and expand, Place the cloth in a kettle of boiling water (have about 2" or 3" of water in kettle and be sure it is boiling). Boil 11%4 to 2 hours. Remove from kettle; place on a plate and fry it in the oven. Serve hot with custard sauce. Custard sauce is made like thin cream pie filling. This dumpling may also be sliced and served cold like fruit bread. SCOTCH BROTH Sheila Morgan Loch Lomondside Branch 1% Ibs. Leg-end mutton 1 turnip 2 quarts cold water 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley 1 onion 1 tablespoon Scotch barley 1 leek salt and pepper 1 carrot Cut meat in small pieces. Add water, salt, and pepper and simmer gently. Remove scum from soup. Add vegetables and cook 1 hour. Strain, bring to boil, add parsley. Eat broth with oatcakes and butter. The meat and vegetables could be eaten separately, or all may be left together and eaten as good, thick soup or stew. LENTIL SOUP Sheila Morgan Soak a large ham bone in water for 24 hours. Simmer gently for 1 hour. Discard bone. Add grated carrots, thinly sliced leek and onion, lentils that have been soaked in cold water for several hours, salt, and pepper. Cook until thick and well done. Split peas may be substituted for lentils or lentils and peas used. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Cream together: % ib. Fresh butter 5 oz. Icing sugar % c. Confectioners sugar Knead in the following: 5 oz. Cornflour 1 cup cornstarch 5 oz. Plain flour 1 cup plain flour Knead into Swiss roll tin. (Flatten to about 4%" thickness in a large cookie or roll pan.) Bake at 300° until golden brown, about 114 hours or less, cut in bars 11" x 4". 767 OCTOBER 1964 FRUIT BRAN LOAF Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) 3 oz. All-bran 1 cup, plus 2 tablespoons All-bran 8 oz. Soft brown sugar 1% cup soft brown sugar 10 fluid oz. Milk 1% cup milk 6 oz. Sultanas 1 cup raisins Soak above ingredients overnight 5 oz. Self-rising flour 5 heaping tbsp. Self-rising flour Next morning add flour. Put in greased floured loaf tin. Bake at 350° for 114 hours. Serve cold, buttered generously. This keeps well, improves after standing one day. CANADIAN TART Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Line a 7" pie tin with pastry made as follows: 8 oz. Plain flour 2 cups plain flour 4 oz. Lard Y% cup lard 8 teaspoons cold water pinch salt 1 tablespoon sugar Work flour, lard, sugar, salt together until it resembles coarse crumbs. Add water and mix gently to stiff dough. Roll and line pan. Filling: beat 1 egg and add 1 cup sugar (8 oz.) 1 cup sugar butter the size of an egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 generous cup raisins and currants Mix well and put into the uncooked pastry. Bake at 350° for 1 hour, or until filling is firm to touch. To serve: cut in wedges. This tart is delicious served with vanilla ice cream. TRIFLE (Delicious Scottish Dessert) Irene Little, Secretary, Annan Branch Relief Society Use stale sponge cake or plain yellow or white. Split a layer of cake. Spread bottom half with raspberry or other jam. Replace top half of cake. Cut in slices and arrange in the bottom of a large bowl or deep dish. Pour a little fruit juice over cake. Dissolve 1 packet red or orange jelly (Jello), cool, pour on cake, set. Add a layer of fruit (mixed, mandarin oranges, etc.). Cover with the same kind of jelly (Jello) or a different variety. Continue until bowl is filled. Allow to set several hours. Cover top with whipped cream. Cover generously with coconut. To serve: spoon out into fruit dishes. Add more fruit, such as sliced peaches, pear halves, or sliced bananas. A layer of vanilla blancmange pudding added in the center of the trifle is delicious. Use your imagination. Add what you have and what you like, a "trifle" of this and a "trifle" of that. 768 Kearerom FRO THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Relief Society Activities Butte Stake (Montana), Dillon Ward Anniversary Program March 17, 1964 Children, seated in front: Christy Wright, Robin Wright, and Deanne Wright. Front row, seated, left to right: Peggy S. Oliphant; Verla R. Boetticher; Martha Childs; Isabella M. Hartwig; June W. Jones; Lucille B. Swartz; Glenna May G. Morrison. Standing, left to right: Elder Walter Swartz; Bishop Raymond Curtis; Elder Kenneth Morrison; Elder Larry Chaffin; Greta Chaffin; Sylvia Ricks; Jerene Curtis; Emma Nygren; Margaret G. Park; Fay B. Nelson; Lavina Smith; Bea Stokes; Lola Farnsworth; Verla Lovell. Harriet S. Palmer, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 17th we had our annual Relief Society anniversary party, which was a huge success. 'Pattern for Living Toward Ideal Womanhood' was the theme for the occasion. The dinner tables, which marked places for nearly one hundred, were resplendent in spring and Easter motifs. A large three-tiered birthday cake, baked and decorated by Delma Ruegseggar, was displayed on a large mirrored tray. Reminiscent of many springs past, the Singing Mothers chorus captivated the audience, wearing originally designed bonnets in styles of the past, present, and future. An original tribute honoring the visiting teachers was written and read by Ruth Graves. A skit 'History in the Making' was directed by Fay Nelson as the concluding number. It depicted the first organization of the Society. Lavina Smith provided background music." 770 through Stake and Mission Relief Society Presidents. See regulations governing cond Counselor Eunice J. Om the left aa the first row jis Lettice O. Rich who "The Singing Mothers sang 'Peace J Leave With You,' 'Calvary,' 'Let Not Your Song End,' 'Prairie Lullaby,' and 'Eternal Life.' They were joined by Our guests, the Southern Pacific Male Chorus, under the direction of Owen Rouse, for 'This Is My Country,' and the €tand finale 'Battle Hymn of the Allegro' from the Second Concerto by Handel, 4 special Singing Mothers double trio, and an outstanding brass ensemble from Weber High School. The evening was truly a memorable one for the Ben Lomond Stake." 771 OCTOBER 1964 Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska) Relief Society Achievement Day May 2, 1964 Second row, seated (back of the children), left to right: Beverly Nye, Magazine representative; Afton Hardy, Education Counselor; Evelyn Doty, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Wakefield, social science class leader; Blanche Rawlings, President; Delores Allred, Work Director Counselor. Sister Rawlings reports: "The Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society sponsored an 'Achievement Day.' A program and the film 'The Awakening' were enjoyed in the morning, and a luncheon was served at noon. In the afternoon a fashion show was presented by the ward and branch Relief Societies. The sisters and their children modeled the clothing they had made during the winter. A fine display of bazaar items was shown. Approximately one hundred attended, and the success was most gratifying. Winter Quarters Stake is three years old, and there are six wards and six branches." Berlin Stake (Western Germany) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference March 22, 1964 Seated, fourth from the right in the front row: Mary R. Young, member of the General Board of Relief Society; second from Sister Young, on the left: Elsa Durr, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society. Ilse Thiede, organist, stands in the second row at the right; Jean A. Jensen, chorister, stands in the front row, fifth from the right; Sarah L. Johnson of the General Board of the Primary Association, front row, third from the right; Counselor Elise Buchereite, stands in the last row, second from the right; Frieda Pflugradt, SecretaryTreasurer, stands in the back row, first on the left. Sister Durr reports that this conference was a joyful and spiritually uplifting occasion. The German Relief Society sisters were delighted to meet Sister Young and to associate with her during the conference sessions. "The numbers presented by the Singing Mothers were beautifully renderd and well received. This was an outstanding accomplishment, considering the difficulties of distance and transportation." University West Stake (Utah) Honors Officers, Visiting Teachers, and Class Leaders at Luncheon, May 2, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Carrie M. Linford; Lila D. Harrison; Isabel D. McGregor; Camilla E. Kimball. Back row, standing, left to right: Evoline M. Riding; Agnes R. Frazer; Esther M. Tidwell; Edyth J. Romney, Secretary-Treasurer, University West Stake Relief Society; Annie M. Ballantyne, President; Sara M. Creer, First Counselor; Gyneth E. Hunter, Second Counselor. Sister Ballantyne reports: "The University West Stake Relief Society Board honored with a luncheon and program all the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the stake on May 2, 1964. There were 240 in attendance, including special guests Camilla Eyring Kimball; Stake President Lamont Peterson and his Counselors Milton G. Thackeray and Merrill G. Wood; and Stake High Council Advisor to Relief Society Thomas B. Montgomery. At a meeting following the luncheon, Sister Kimball related some of her experiences visiting Relief Society organizations in different parts of the world and displayed some articles produced by them. "Of the visiting teachers present, six had served for fifty years or more: Carrie Merrill Linford, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Lila Dansie Harrison, North Thirteenth Ward, fifty-two years; Isabel Durham McGregor, West Twelfth Ward, sixty years; Evoline Mann Riding, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Agnes Rufi Frazer, West Eleventh Ward, fifty years; Esther Milner Tidwell, East Twelfth Ward, fifty-one years." 772 OCTOBER 1964 Reno Stake (Nevada), Fallon Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting for Five Years February 7, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Jan Larsen, former president; stake officers: Alta Darney, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche Richards, First Counselor; Louise L. Bell, President; Dorothea Folsom, Second Counselor; Golden Hyde, Bishop of Fallon Ward; ward officers: June Miller, First Counselor; Flora Miller, President; Jane Joedeman, Second Counselor; Thora Hendrix, Secretary-Treasurer; Wilmuth Crook, former president. Sister Bell reports: "The Reno Stake is proud of the Fallon Ward for achieving one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the last five years. The ward officers held a party honoring the visiting teachers. A luncheon was served, and the program 'A Light Shining' was presented. This one hundred per cent record was attained under three presidents." Utah Stake Honors Relief Society Secretary-Treasurers April 23, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: LaRee Adamson; Louise Cardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Utah Stake Relief Society; Ethel Bills. Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Tuft; Norma Snow; Phyllis Jacobson; Geraldine Bastian; Afton Halverson. Nellie R. Mecham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We had a lovely social honoring our secretary-treasurers. All of the sisters in the stake were invited and encouraged to bring a friend, including 1 »n-Latter-day Saint sisters. Effie Pinegar of the stake board wrote and read a. Uvely tribute to our secretary-treasurers, after which each one was presented with a beautiful hand-crocheted handkerchief. The Singing Mothers of the University Ward, under the direction of Ethelyn Mangum and Louise Wakefield, furnished music for the occasion. Two film strips: 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and 'The Awakening' were enjoyed. Between the film strips, Clair Johnson favored us with a lovely vocal solo. After the closing prayery, light refreshments were served." West Mexican Mission, Hermosillo Branch Relief Society Entertains at Farewell Dinner for President and Sister Turley, July 3, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Maclovia de Montoya, First Counselor; » -ancisca de Ruiz, Second Counselor Concepcion de Ibarra; Mercedes Vda. De Graham; Elisa de Guajardo; Santiaga de Gastelum, President; Ireta P. Turley, former Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society; Socorro de Aquilar; Abigail de Pineda, Secretary-Treasurer; Marie de Jesus de Navarro; Dolores de Sevallos. Back row, standing, left to right: Dolores de Ortega; Abel Montoya, President, Hermosillo Branch; Virgilio Guajardo; Roberto Gastelum and _ child; Harold E. Turley, former President, West Mexican Mission; Mauro Aquilar, Second Counselor; Carlos Pineda. The officers and teachers of the Hermosillo Branch Relief Society gave a farewell dinner for the outgoing mission president Harold E. Turley and his wife Ireta P. Turley. Following a short program, the Turleys were presented with a lovely hand-embroidered tablecloth made by the sisters of the Relief Society. It was given as a gift of appreciation and love to the Turleys for their help and kindness while serving in the mission. The new Mission Relief Society supervisor is Retha S. Turley. 774 North Idaho Falls Stake, Seventeenth Ward '"'Friendship Day" April 1, 1964 Mary L. Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the picture represents the center decoration of the hall and shows Donna Cramer displaying a picture which she has made. "April first will long be remembered in the hearts of the sisters of the Seventeenth Ward as they, their friends, and neighbors attended our 'Friendship Social.' 'April Showers' was an appropriate theme, as one entered the building from the falling rain outside. A small pink or yellow name tag in the shape of an umbrella was presented at the door to each sister. "Following the invocation by Bishop Lyman Monson, the Singing Mothers beautifully rendered the song 'April Showers.' The original words of the second verse by Laura A. Passey, President, Idaho Falls Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, were written to portray the spirit of Relief Society, and to invite the new sisters to join our happy throng. "The theme 'April Showers' was carried out in the decorations. In the center of the hall, suspended from the ceiling, was a large, twenty-foot wide and fifteen-foot high umbrella, trimmed with pink net and green and yellow plastic. Beneath the umbrella, were eight tables arranged in an octagon figure which displayed food demonstrations of potato croquettes, tomato fritters, apple fritters, applets, and pan-fried cookies. Samples were given throughout the evening to those present. The arts of hat making, sewing, cake decorating, and ribbon flowers were also demonstrated. "Encircling one half of the hall were tables representing visiting teaching, The Relief Society Magazine, the music department, social science, literature, theology, and arts and crafts, as well as home management and sewing. These tables were draped with green and yellow plastic. Each class leader developed her own ideas to represent her lesson department. The spirit of Relief Society was felt as one studied the table displays. There was a table display depicting the history of Relief Society, and a large decorated cake representing the birthday of the 122 years of the Relief Society organization. "Those present were served a lovely luncheon on small tables spaced along one side of the hall. These tables were decorated with white cloths and miniature umbrella centerpieces trimmed in pink, green, and yellow net. The Priesthood members were invited, and special invitations of small pink umbrellas were delivered to the sisters by the ward visiting teachers. There were over 125 who attended. Our objective was to shower the sisters with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer them. We feel this was accomplished by the comments and appreciation expressed by those present. The lovely evening, filled with renewed friendship and love. Concluded with the Singing Mothers presenting 'A Sister's Prayer.' " 776 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 79, 80, 81, and 82) For First Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. MISSIONARY CALLING During the month of March 1832, revelations were received calling three elders into missionary service. (Sections 79 and 80.) Sometimes missionary calls were to specific localities, as in the case of Jared Carter who was called to serve in the eastern countries [States], while others were given a more general area of proselyting. Brothers Stephen Burnett and Eden Smith were told to go to any of the directions of the compass and labor. (D&C 80: 1-3.) There are few callings in the Church that can compare with the missionary call. It provides opportunities to fulfill one's obligation to represent the Lord before the world; to build up Zion by increasing her citizens; to gain a better understanding of gospel fundamentals; and, at the same time, provides a foundation for a life of service at home. The missionary who tries to honor his missionary call finds that the Lord will sustain him in his labors if he will do his part. The obtaining of the spirit of one's calling will bring the powers of the Holy Ghost to one's assistance. President John Taylor calls our attention to the missionary's calling in the following passage: It is for us to magnify our calling and honor our God in any and every position that we may be called upon to fill.... I would say that this Priesthood is not for the honor of man, not for his exaltation alone; but it is imparted to man in order that he may be made the medium of salvation to others.... Talking of the Elder, why he is a herald of salvation; he is a legate of the skies; he is commissioned of the great Jehovah to bear a message to the nations of the earth, and God has promised to 77 OCTOBER 1964 sustain him. He has always sustained His faithful Elders, and He always will (Journal of Discourses 24:35). —_— aT) Vv While on his mission to the Eastern States, Elder Jared Carter was joined by his brother Simeon. These two missionaries labored for a period in Bolton, New York, on the shore of Lake George. While conducting meetings in that place, they met John Tanner, a wealthy resident of the community, who had invented a wheel chair to carry himself because of an infected leg which doctors had despaired of ever healing. He had been told that he would never again be able to walk. Mr. Tanner's presence at the meeting was prompted by his desire to confound the Mormon missionaries because of their belief in the ministry of angels and The Book of Mormon. Impressed by their message, however, he invited them to his home that he might learn more about their beliefs. Mr. Tanner confessed that he was converted to their teachings, but, because of his physical condition, he eould not be baptized. Whereupon, the following conversation ensued: Elder Jared Carter said to him, "You believe in the power of the Lord to heal your leg, do you not?" Tanner said he did most assuredly. Then Elder Carter said in a loud voice, placing his hand heavily on the shoulder of the sick man: "John Tanner, in the name of Jesus Christ I command you to rise and walk!" The ailing man got out of his chair, but hesitated to set his lame foot on the floor. "In the name of the Lord," said the Elder, "set down your other foot, and do not be afraid!" Tanner set it down. It was healed! 778 He could walk without any difficulty —as well, in fact as he had ever done. He strode up and down the room, praising God for the miracle (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 75, 1940, page 291). The three men walked to the lake and Mr. Tanner was baptized. Two years later he sold his possessions in New York, and moved to Kirtland, Ohio, to join the saints. Subsequently, Brother Tanner used much of his wealth to build up Zion. One of the well-known experiences of missionary success was the record made by Elder Wilford Woodruff in the British Mission in the year 1840. While laboring in Staffordshire on his birthday, he was directed by the Holy Ghost to go south. Obedient to this inspiration, Elder Woodruff traveled to Herefordshire where he met Mr. John Benbow, a wealthy farmer, who told him that over 600 people of the ''United Brethren" faith might be taught. Elder Woodruff, with the material aid of Mr. Benbow, preached to these people and, in a short time, all but one of them accepted the true Church of Jesus Christ. A further example of the sustaining power of the Holy Ghost in his ministry came about in an interesting manner. At the request of a minister, the local constable attended a meeting to arrest Brother Woodruff for preaching the gospel. While the peace officer waited, at the request of the missionary, for the end of the meeting, he became convinced of the truth delivered there and requested baptism. Two clerks of the Church of England were also sent to one of the meetings, and both of them were baptized. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church His- tory, pp. 282-283.) In eight months' time, mainly through the efforts of Elder Woodruff in Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Gloucestershire, 1800 people were brought into the Church. REPARS [: Section 80 provides us with some ideas about preparation for missionary service. The two missionaries called by this revelation were told to "declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and know to be true" (Verse 4). The successful missionary is possessed of sufficient knowledge to impart the fundamentals of the gospel to his listener. Careful preparation for the calling and function of the service to be rendered is a key to success. A necessary preparation is to live worthy to receive the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. If one has learned the gospel, the Lord will bring the necessary knowledge forth when the time is appropriate. Above everything else, the missionary should have a testimony of the restoration of the gospel and thus be able to bear record that Jesus is the Savior. In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe: These, then, are the steps on the way to truth: Desire, prayer, study, and practice. They form the eternal price which must be paid for truth. This way must be found by each person for himself. Another cannot desire, pray, study, or practice in our stead and for us. Truth must be won individually (Evidences and Reconciliations, 3:84-85), When one knows the truth of the gospel, he will not teach something that will confuse or destroy faith. He will seek to learn LESSON DEPARTMENT the truth and teach only the truths that will advance the salvation of his fellow men. The guide to success in missionary work, in other Church teaching positions, or other callings where counsel is required, is the word given in the standard works of the Church and the instructions of the living prophets. (D&C 10:62-63.) It was during March 1832, that Joseph Smith received Section 81 revealing that the First Presidency should be organized. Frederick G. Williams, by this revelation, was called to be a Counselor to President Smith. One year later, March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Sidney Rigdon also serving as a Counselor. During that interim, however, these brethren assisted the Prophet. The following reason for the gradual development of the Church organization was given by President Anthon H. Lund: When the Church was organized on the 6th day of April, 1830, as far as we can learn there were but nine persons in the Church. Of course, with nine persons it was impossible to establish this perfect organization of the Priesthood. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were called and ordained Apostles; but there could not be Twelve Apostles, there could not be [a quorum of] Seventy, for at that time the Church was too small. It took time for the work to grow; but the Lord had given revelation upon the subject, and when the proper time came the Presidency of the Church was organized, with the Prophet Joseph as President and Sidney Rigdon and Federick G. Williams as_ his counselors. Afterwards the Twelve Apostles were chosen, and then the Seventies. But in the beginning, when 779 OCTOBER 1964 there were not enough to form these different quorums, the Elders presided, because they held the Melchizedek Priesthood. The Lord, however, had a perfect organization for His Church, and He gave it unto them when they were ready to receive it (Conference Report, November 1901, page 75). An important truth is given in verse 2 of Section 81 regarding the Presidency of the Church. Brother Williams was told that Joseph Smith, the President, had received the keys of the kingdom of God and that these powers would reside in the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood. In August 1830, the Lord referred to the time, when, in June of the preceding year, Peter, James and John, had conferred these keys and a dispensation of the gospel for the last time. (D&C 27:12- 13.) Briefly, the keys thus restored, together with those later conferred, gave the rights, privileges, and powers necessary to carry out all of the functions of the Priesthood upon the earth. In Section 81, Brother Williams was informed that he was to counsel with the Prophet. The counselors were not to receive revelation for the Church, but they were entitled to inspiration that they might act in unison with the President on all matters which came before them. Emphasis is given in the revelation of the need for prayer to receive the full blessings of leadership. (Verse 3.) In addition to his Presidency duties, which would also involve helping the weak and those in need (verse 5), Brother Williams was told that he should proclaim the gospel, and then he would be able to do the greatest good for his fellow 780 men and also for the glory of God. (Verse 4). Faithful performance of Brother Williams' calling, as is true of all Latter-day Saints, would give him a crown of eternal life in the Father's mansions. (Verse 6.) Regardless of the office held in the kingdom, there is need for each member of the Church to do missionary work. The month before Section 82 was received, the Prophet Joseph Smith was counseled to organize the saints in Zion for their temporal benefit. (D&C 78:3-4.) Shortly after arriving at Independence, Missouri, a_ general council of the Church was convened, at which time the Prophet was sustained as the President of the High Priesthood to which office he was ordained on the 25th of January, 1832. During an intermission of the council, a difference between Bishop Edward Partridge and Sidney Rigdon was settled, and then the revelation recorded in Section 82 was received. The Lord recognized the settlement of this difference between the brethren and said that as they had forgiven each other, so also he would forgive them. (Ibid., 82:1.) Since all mankind will be judged by the law to which they are responsible on the earth, men will vary in their responsibility to account for the deeds done in the body. For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation (D&C 82:3). The principle that greater light and understanding bring greater responsibility, should appeal to everyone as a just principle. For example, if a person does not have an opportunity to hear the fulness of the gospel, then he should not be held to that law. It is also true that if one does have the opportunity to know the commandments of that law, and does not live them, then he should lose the blessings of living that law. Although one may learn the letter of the law, some may claim that they do not understand the necessity of complying with the commandment. What of them? Elder James E. Talmage has this informative answer:... Such may ask: Are men to suffer penalty in the hereafter because they cannot understand what is required of them in mortality? The degree of their culpability is to be determined by the fundamental cause of their ineptitude in matters spiritual. Failure to comprehend may be due to bias or to lack of desire to know. Are you unable to realize that baptism is essential to salvation? Perhaps the cause lies in the fact that you have never developed the essential condition of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; or, perchance, you have never repented of your sins. Faith and repentance, as the Scriptures aver, are prerequisites to effective baptism; and _ it is as unreasonable to expect a faithless unrepentant sinner to comprehend the essentiality of baptism as to expect one untrained in the rudiments of arithmetic to understand algebra. Wilful ignorance of Gospel requirements is sin. Man is untrue to his Divine lineage and birthright of reason when he turns away from the truth, or deliberately chooses to walk in darkness while the illumined path is open to his tread. Positive rejection of the truth is even graver than passive inattention or neglect. Yet to LESSON DEPARTMENT every one is given the right of choice and the power of agency, with the certainty of his meeting the natural and inevitable consequence (Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., pp. 270-271). Latter-day Saints are more responsible before the Lord because they are under covenant by baptism, by temple ordinances, as well as by the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost. "What I say unto one I say unto all" is a truth which has application many times in these revelations. Although a truth may be spoken to one or several people, usually it is applicable to the many. It is just as true today as in 1832 that the adversary is gaining ground and his darkness reigneth to a great degree upon the earth. (D&C 82:5.) This condition brings about this warning to the world: And the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way (Verse 6). To the brethren in Missouri (and to all members of the Church) the Lord counseled them to sin no more, and "unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return" (D&C 82:7). After quoting Ezekiel, chapter 18, verse 24, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary gives this explanation:... God forgives the repentant sinner so completely that "his transgressions shall not be mentioned unto him"; on the other hand, the righteous, who turns away from righteousness, cannot hope that his former life will save him. The principle works both ways, and is, therefore, eminently just (page 490). 78) OCTOBER 1964 ——. Oe ee ee er As a preface to instructions regarding the brethren's mission to Missouri to manage the affairs of the poor under the order of Enoch in Kirtland, as well as Zion, the Lord set forth this truth which is similar to another oft-quoted one. (See D&C 130:20-21.) I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10). The meaning of this passage is well known. The Lord operates the universe, his Church, and the plan of salvation, by law. When the law is observed, the blessing of that law follows. In the operation of the law of consecration, it was intended that each person should manage his stewardship so that not only his family would profit but that the Lord's storehouse would be filled to meet every need, "Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God" (Verse 19). Jf the brethren privileged to live this law of stewardship were to break their covenants, they "shall be dealt with according to the laws of my Church and shall be delivered over to the buffeting of Satan until the day of redemption" (Verse 21). The brethren were also advised "and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness and they will not destroy you. Leave judgment alone with me for it is mine and I will repay" (Verses 22-23). The Saints were to treat their nonmember friends with kindness, to live at peace with them, but 782 never take to their bosoms principles of unrighteousness. The gospel teaches that one should refrain from sinning, and a way to accomplish this is to keep from the areas of temptation. Tolerance does not mean acceptance of principles that are contrary to the Lord's way of happiness. One can be friendly with those who do not accept Latter-day Saint standards of conduct, but tolerance is not indulgence. Four sections of the Doctrine and Covenants have made up this lesson. We have learned that the Lord gave instructions on missionary work that are applicable today; that the faithful missionary is promised the Holy Ghost to direct him in his labors: and that the powers of the Priesthood are available to the diligent. Regardless of position in the Church, no one is exempt from missionary responsibility. Finally, we learned that the powers of darkness are present on the earth and diligence in keeping the commandments is necessary. Tolerance for people not of our faith was enjoined, but tolerance does not mean acceptance of their ideas and practices which are incompatible with the covenants which the Latter-day Saint has made with God. NVIECTIONG NISCLICCION FOR 1. What are the benefits that can come through missionary service? 2. Tell of the progress of missionary work in England in 1840 as an example of the fulfillment of Section 79:3. 3. What is the obligation of the missionary (and the teacher in the Church) to teach what the Lord has revealed? 4. What is meant by the keys of the kingdom and whc has the use of them? LESSON DEPARTMENT Who receives the benefit of their use? 5. Explain what is meant by the scripture "unto whom much is given much is required." VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 60 — "' That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea, Even an Hundred Fold." (D&C 82:18). For First Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. One of the misfortunes in life is the tendency of all of us to underestimate the talents and abilities with which we have been blessed. Most of us never realize nor develop more than a fraction of our potentialities. The reason this is true, is that we fail to use and improve upon the _ talents with which we have been blessed. Utilizing our talents not only develops them, but also lays the foundation for the growth of additional talents. One of the great truths of life is that as we utilize, develop, and magnify our abilities, we gain the power and the strength to move on to higher and more important accomplishments. This thought from Ralph Waldo Emerson has been frequently emphasized as a truism, that as we continue in the performance of any task that task becomes easier, not because its nature has changed, but because our ability to perform it has improved. In other words, there is no doubt about the truthfulness of the statement that "practice makes perfect."' The reality and accuracy of this message from the Doctrine and Covenants, that as we improve upon our talents we gain additional talents, was realistically demonstrated in the personal experience of a certain individual. This individual had received a beautiful patriarchal _ blessing. Among other things, this blessing stipulated that she possessed talents which she had not adequately developed. 783 As the Years passed the nly Slamoroys areas, such 4S in music thing this Individya] Could re. Rin the arts ut all of y » b Member a Out her blessing Was Practice, can PYove our talents is Statem nt, and She beca eof self express » of being better Increasing] More worried about listeners, f ha NS more underer failure to €velop her ta ents. Standin h Nn fact, She talents, Nevertheless, aS is character. Improve Ou istic in the Ch urch, °Pportunitie, the 800d j came to her + IN seeing n e | ring bea ty in the urch cap cition = e dis. "oOrmonplace things Or life. Charged each f these respongjrough More p bilities to th er hath Not, from bp, Organizational him Shall be t ke ability, and Man aken away even that She haq he hath (Matt - 13:12). These from the ' Willard Luce aa: her 2" ied _! — «= mn in Zion Canyon National Park Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Remember In times of trouble The enduring strength of The stubborn life grasp © Rooted in rock, The red grandeur of eternal can The soothing song of the perpe And even, too, the fragile fern, And how it beautifies the crevic stone, f the cliff tree yon walls, tual river, the maidenhair, e where it grows. And remember, Over all humanity, the God curves the infinit; | 785 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature Elder Bruce B. Clark Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part II! (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 71-90) For Third Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Last month we examined several poems by William Wordsworth as evidences of the poets' traditional affirmation of spiritual values and traditional faith in God and man. This month we turn to another English poet, Robert Browning (1812-1889), to explore further the poetry of faith. Browning was equal io Wordsworth as an affirmer of lofty ideals, and even greater as a poet —possibly the greatest English poet since Milton. His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and_ psychological soul-studies probe as meaningfully into human personality and character as any poems ever written; and his long masterpiece, The Ring and the Book, is one of the great poems of the world. Browning's writing is complex and difficult, but wonderfully rewarding. The words "robust optimist" have so often been used to describe Browning that they now seem almost part of his name. 786 Fortunately, they fit this great man whose total affirmation of life both here and hereafter is so vigorous that it is attractive even to readers who may not share it. Strangely, his most widely known statement of optimism, '"God's in his Heaven—All's right with the world," spoken by a naive little girl in his drama Pippa Passes, is an extreme view that Browning recognized as unrealistic. Although Browning knew that there is much wrong with man's present world, he firmly believed that God is in heaven ultimately controlling the universe and that the potentiality of man in this life is great and the confidence with which he can lcok forward to life beyond death is equally great. Occasionally Browning speaks of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando"' when he describes himself as One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, Sleep to wake. At other times Browning speaks his views not directly but through the words of one of his characters, as in the great soul-study "Saul" where the redemptive power of music is explored, or in "Fra Lippo Lippi" when the worldly but exuberantly likeable Fra Lippo says, This world's no blot for us, Nor blank; it means intensely, and means good. And earlier says, referring to his purpose in painting, If you get simple beauty and naught else, You get about the best thing God invents. But, even more vividly than when Browning speaks explicitly through himself or through his characters, he ironically communicates his views to us indirectly and upside-down through his unattractive characters. In fact, the bulk that we know about Browning's specific views we infer in this manner. We sense his admiration for sincerity and honesty and simple goodness because the proud, jealous Duke of Ferrara in "My Last Duchess" is so arrogantly materialistic, and because the dying Bishop in Saint Praxed's Church and the soliloquizing monk in the Spanish Cloister are so sensually worldly and (the latter at least) so hypocritically LESSON DEPARTMENT self-righteous. We know that Browning believes man has the responsibility and opportunity, in this life, to work towards his own eternal salvation because the despicable Johannes Agricola (see "Johannes Agricola in Meditation') and the degenerate Caliban (see "Caliban Upon Setebos") believe otherwise. And these are only a few of many similar poems by Browning. Out of and through all his poems Browning emerges not only as a great poet but as the most vigorously optimistic writer of his age, with an unwavering faith in God and immortality and a great confidence in man. We now turn more fully to two poems "__A Grammarian's Funeral"' and "An Epistle of Karshish'"— to explore some of the details of Browning's faith. A Grammarian's Funeral. We especially feel Browning's vigorous affirmation of life in the several poems, including "A Grammarian's Funeral," that develop his doctrine of "success in failure," the "philosophy of the imperfect''—that man should direct all his energy toward achieving high goals, even impossibly high goals, for to set low goals and achieve them is to fail, whereas to set high goals and strive unceasingly toward them is to succeed, even though the goals may not be fully reached. Browning would on this point agree with the pathetic Andrea del Sarto (in his poem of that title), who broodingly acknowledges that '"'a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?' He hated all forms of avoidable mediocrity and half-effort. For him, anything 787 OCTOBER 1964 worth doing was worth doing well, with complete energy and devotion. Part of Browning's purpose in ''A Grammarians Funeral"' is to catch the inexhaustible thirst for knowledge of the scholars of the early Renaissance. Although the term "grammarian" may suggest otherwise, the dead grammarian is a learned scholar, loved and honored by his disciples; and he is being carried to the top of a lofty mountain for burial at sunrise. The speaker of the poem is a disciple especially devoted to the dead grammarian, and he is talking to the other pallbearers as he leads them to the burial spot. In the first section of 28 lines the speaker points out, as the bearers climb the mountain, that the mountain peak is the "appropriate" spot for burial because it is lofty as the scholar in learning was also lofty. "Our low life was the level's and the night's." says the disciple. ""He's for the morning." In the second section, lines 29 to 72, the speaker points out how his master spent the years of his youth and young manhood searching, searching—unknown, unrecognized, withdrawn from life in a total dedication to learning. "Long he lived nameless'"' as he "left play for work" yearning "let me know all!" And in the long closing section, lines 73 to 148, the total search to know all continues. Some who know him criticize the grammarian for not living while he has a chance. '"Time escapes; live now or never!" they say. But he answers, ""What's time? Leave Now for dogs and apes! Man has For- 788 ever."" And back to his books he goes, physically half dead, intellectually even more dedicated. Now, years later, he is dead, and his disciples are carrying his body to the burial spot. Did he learn all? No, the goal was impossibly high. He learned much, but not all. Nevertheless, in the devoted pursuit of a high goal that he could not quite reach he succeeded more than lesser people who set and achieve little goals. Says his disciple, If we draw a circle premature, Heedless of far gain, Greedy for quick returns of profit, sure Bad is our bargain! A little later he further explains: That low man seeks a little thing to do, Sees it and does it; This high man, with a great thing to pursue, Dies ere he knows it. That low man goes on adding one to one, His hundred's soon hit; This high man, aiming at a million, Misses an unit. That, has the world here—should he need the next, Let the world mind him! This, throws himself on God, and unperplexed Seeking shall find him. Thus "trusting death'—that is, having confidence in the eternal progression possible through immortality—the grammarian accepts "earth's failure' as the price of "heaven's success." And his disciples honor him by burying him on the mountain peak, for "lofty designs must close in like effects." Here's the top-peak; the multitude below Live, for they can, there; This man decided not to Live but Know— Bury this man there? Here—here's his place, where meteors shoot, clouds form, Lightnings are loosened, Stars come and go! The problem for the modern reader of this poem is in deciding not to side with the grammarian's critics who felt that he was wasting his time in a grubby search for knowledge, that he would have been wiser to live life to the fullest as Browning advocated in other poems. But Browning's point is that whatever one chooses to do should be done with energy and enthusiasm. And devotion. Pillowy, "lukewarm," easy, directionless, undisciplined mediocrity was as distasteful to Browning as St. John in the Book of Revelation recorded it as being to Jesus Christ. (Revelation 3:15-16 reads: "I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth."') An Epistle of Karshish. Browning's long and complex poem called "An Epistle, Containing the Strange Medical Experience of Karshish, the Arab Physician" is perhaps the most successful effort in the world's poetry to recreate the tremendous impact of Christ's mission upon an ancient non-believer who is so_ overwhelmed by it all that in bafflement he almost believes. The poem is not history and should not be read as history. It is an art creation, attempting to capLESSON DEPARTMENT ture the spirit rather than merely the factual details of how Christ's life and message must have affected those who only half knew and understood it. Karshish and Abib are imaginary characters. The Epistle purports to be written in 66 A. D. From Bethany in Judea by the traveling scholar-physician Karshish to his master, Abib. The first two sections, through line 61, are merely introductory as Karshish tells Abib of his travels to a number of places, different people and things he has seen, and various medicines he has used in the treatment of epilepsy and other sicknesses. The reader will almost certainly find these lines tedious and not very meaningful, as Browning intended. Then Karshish, almost as an afterthought, says, ''Yet stay." Something is on his mind that he wants to talk about. Before the reader moves further in the poem he should study the account in John 11:1-44 of Christ's raising of Lazarus from the dead, for it is about Lazarus that Karshish wishes to talk. He has met Lazarus and been puzzled by him. "The man had something in the look of him," says Karshish in line 69, something that Karshish cannot forget. Lazarus, having felt the power of Christ, is a man incapable of doubt. And first—the man's own firm conviction rests That he was dead (in fact they buried him) —That he was dead and then restored to life By a Nazarene physician of his tribe: —'Sayeth, the same bade "Rise," and he did rise. (lines 97-101) 789 OCTOBER 1964 Karshish is both intrigued and baffled by Lazarus. Karshish does not himself know Christ—is, in fact, not even of the Jewish faith. And he does not really believe Lazarus. Yet he cannot fully doubt him. Lazarus has the unshakeable faith, quiet yet absolute, of one who simply knows. "This grown man eyes the world now like a child" (line 117.) His conviction needs no arguing to support it. He serenely knows, and Karshish, a non-believer, is deeply moved by the whole experience. And so the "epistle"' goes on, line after line. Often an expression comes into Lazarus's face ''as if he saw again and heard again his sage that bade him 'Rise' and he did rise," says Karshish. Again and again Karshish starts to end the letter to Abib, and then goes on talking about Lazarus, unable to dismiss the incident from his thoughts. One might suppose Lazarus to be a madman or a fanatic, says Karshish, but it is not so—the man is "harmless as a lamb" (line 232). Patiently, steadfastly, unwaveringly he waits for the death that will take him back to his Master. The whole thing is incomprehensible to Karshish. In the section beginning with line 243 Karshish says to Abib, you may wonder why I have not sought out "the Nazarene who wrought this cure" to learn for myself all about him. But I cannot, Karshish explains, for he was killed by a mob of people because he was accused of wizardry and then failed to stop an earthquake. (Obviously Karshish is all confused about the facts of 790 Christ's death, just as a person in Christ's time might well have been confused when getting the information through hearsay, as Karshish did. Browning makes the "epistle" all the more realistic by this brilliant handling of the probability of confusion.) In the passage beginning with line 267 Karshish, now almost overcome by what he is saying, comments that Lazarus believes his healer was actually God: This man so cured regards the curer, then, As—God forgive me! Who but God himself, Creator and sustainer of the world, That came and dwelt in flesh on it awhile! —Sayeth that such an one was born and lived, Taught, healed the sick, broke bread at his own house, Then died, with Lazarus by, for aught I know. Of course this simply could not be, says Karshish, and asks Abib's "pardon for this long and tedious" letter (line 283). I have talked much too long about the whole thing, he says—and then goes on talking longer about it. So tremendously has he been impressed that, try as he will, he cannot cast it from his mind. The thought that finally overwhelms him most of all, in the brief closing passage of the poem, is the magnificent concept of God as a being of Love as well as of Power: The very God! Think, Abib; dost thou think? So, the All-Great, were the AllLoving too— So, through the thunder comes a human voice Saying, '"'O heart I made, a heart beats here! Face, my hands fashioned, see it in myself!' And not only a being of love, but also a being, divinely perfected, in the glorified form of man himself. The whole thing is utterly beyond comprehension for Karshish, but also beyond dismissal. He cannot believe, yet he cannot not believe. And so brilliant is Browning's handling of the whole poem that the reader is fully caught up in the wonder of it all, just as Karshish was. Christ, the Creator and Redeemer of the world, and mankind's loving Elder Brother! Note to Class Leader The material on Browning given here is taken from pp. 71-90 of the Relief Society literature text. In addition to this interpretive material, the text contains a more extended discussion of Browning and a full print (with explanatory notes) of "A Grammarian's Funeral" and "An Epis'le of Karshish," which should be used in the wards and branches for this month's lesson. If these poems by Browning seem too complex for use in some Relief Society groups, the literature text in this section on "Faith in God and Man" also contains several shorter poems, LESSON DEPARTMENT with interpretive discussions. These are intended as supplementary, enrichment selections and may be used as desired to meet the special needs of wards and branches for discussion groups in the homes. They are excellent selections for brief, stimulating analysis. The poems are as follows: "The Lamb" by William Blake, "I Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, "Little Jesus" by Frances Thompson, "The Windhover" and "God's Grandeur" by Gerald Manley Hopkins, and "Still Falls the Rain' by Edith Sitwell. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. Is it really better, as Browning says, to set difficult high goals and strive towards them even though they may not be fully attained than to set easy low goals and attain them? Why? 2. Discuss the effectiveness of the short lines in "A Grammarian's Funeral." 3. How successful is Browning in "An Epistle of Karshish" in taking you back two thousand years to the time when Jesus walked in person on the earth, unknown and unrecognized? 4. Why does Karshish find it more difficult and more wonderful to think of God as a Being of love than just a Being of great power? 5. Why does Karshish's confusion about the true nature of Christ's death make Browning's poem even more realistic than if Karshish had all the details correct? 791 SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballii Lesson 17 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations —Continued For Fourth Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations. ZION is built of perfected family circles. All devices, divine and human, for man's betterment, to be effective, must recognize the training that comes out of the home (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 80). FAMILY: A SACRED COMMISSION The family is a sacred institution ordained of God. It insures his spirit children intimate, stimulating, and loving environment for their development during the most impressionable period of their lives on earth. According to the scriptures, marriage was intended for all men and women, it being necessary in order for them to fulfill the purpose of their creation. "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, m thedord' (I Corall:1)). And in Mark 10:7-9 we read, "For this cause [marriage] shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; And they twain' shall be one flesh " In the instructions 792 to the first couple, the Creator made clear the importance of children in his plan ("multiply and replenish the earth'') and the responsibility of parenthood was accepted. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (P of GP, Moses 5:12). Children become members of the Church and the Church is judged by the way the members reflect its teachings. The kind of member the child becomes depends largely upon the family environment in which the child develops his basic attitudes toward life and its purpose. The duty and obligation of parenthood is to teach the children correct principles and to set the proper example before them. Thus knowing right from wrong, it is the responsibility of each person to make his own decision. PERFECTION IN FAMILY LIVING With our accumulated knowledge of and experience in family living, together with the divine guidance and counsel we have received, and with the possibility of personal revelation to the Priesthood holder for the welfare of his family, we should be producing family units that are near perfection. According to this, if our families are functioning as they should, it would be possible for us to eliminate most of the social ills known to family life. We should be free of such problems as crime, delinquency, divorce, desertion, and conflict in general. There has never been more help available for the family organization than there is today. What do the results show in your home, in your ward and stake? Let us examine our own homes first, not in relation to the big things just mentioned, but in relation to the small things that may, eventually, lead to larger and more serious problems. Within your own home is there dishonesty, deception, or a lack of forthrightness in the dealings among the family members? To what extent is selfishness apparent in the family interaction? Does the true spirit of love dominate where the personal concern for other family members comes _ before self? Does anger dictate your discipline measures? Is there unbridled criticism of one another? You see, these things and many other happenings of the home become a part of the child that goes forth from that home, and all the things he experiences each day become a part of him for the moment and for the years to come. Let each one check carefully the daily family experiences and evaluate them in terms of the best information or knowledge and LESSON DEPARTMENT practice available to him. Are we developing young men and young women in our homes who will be able to make virtuous decisions? Are we justifying the availability of divine guidance and counsel in the performance of our duties as parents? Divine inspiration is as available to the Priesthood bearer in the home performing his duties as the leader of his family, as it is to the Priesthood bearer in the cperation of any other office or calling in the Church. Because of the importance of the family in its influence on the children as members of the Church, and society in general, the power and influence of the divine is, and always has been, within easy access to those who inquire and are worthy to receive this influence. It is living the gospel that brings the blessings of heaven. SO DATIMAI VE rAAAIIV LIECcC OPERATION OF FAMI: d By way of emphasis may we again call attention to the fact that the man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and that the fulness of the Priesthood is possible only through the sealing ordinance of a temple marriage. In such a marriage "they twain shall be one flesh." This being the case, it is logical to conclude that there is equal responsibility for the success of the family unit. The marriage we speak of is eternal, and the total experience of this life has a direct bearing on the nature of the eternal relationship. DISTINCTIVE CALLINGS In the operation of the family unit there should be no competi- 793 OCTOBER 1964 tion between husband and wife for leadership. They have distinctive callings and unique qualifications, the use of which complement each other in carrying out the duties of a Latter-day Saint home. In making a living the father may be fully responsible for the income of the family, but the frugality of the mother and her wisdom in expenditures make possible the family economic wellbeing on the income of the father. Biologically, the father and mother make distinctive contributions to each child, but the nurture of the developing but unborn baby produces a closeness between mother and child that a father may never know. Yet in the stability and security the father provides, including' the counseling and guidance of the baby to maturity, the father can and should supply a need that a mother by the very nature of her calling may never produce. In general, the father brings the family in touch with the world outside the home, preparing each member for the realities of the contacts with society, while the mother creates within her home a clean, wholesome place of security. Not alone through purchasing power, but by her inventiveness and creativeness. She fashions a home that has a uniqueness all her own. Truly, to her children there is no place like home. But, here, as in other sit 1- ations, it is a joint venture inasmuch as father supplies che material essentials and mother fashions these things into their home. The sum total of the joint ef- 794 forts of father and mother in the home is to produce an environment where each tiny tot can find ample stimulation for continual growth and development in body, mind, and spirit. The teachings, illustrated by the living examples of all members of the family, particularly the father and mother, provide a major influence in shaping the total behavior of the new baby. The real test of character is found in the ability of the grown child to make decisions when away on his own that are in harmony with the values taught in his home training. What values do you want the children to have? How sacred are the values you have observed? Are they in harmony with the design of the Creator? Can they produce the best results in the life of your child? = 2 THE HOME SHOULD DO In considering the values of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in recognizing that values remain as values in the minds of people only as organized effort is brought to bear on teaching and applying these values to life situations, it seems that the following are some of the very important things that the home must do. It must develop: 1. A religious atmosphere. Religion is our way of life. In it there must be confidence in the reality of God and his Son Jesus Christ. This is the base of our belief. With the help of the Holy Ghost every child eight years of age can have this witness. (D&C 68:25.) Prayer is the medium of contact with God. The home experi- ence filled with humility and faith provides an atmosphere conducive to the development of a favorable attitude toward prayer. Each child should petition divine help in the solution of daily problems. The stimulation of association with the spiritual side of life should be just as natural and regular as physical and intellectual growth and development. Parents have the obligation to teach and train their children in the observance of family prayer, in the payment of tithing, the observance of the Word of Wisdom and other fundamental virtues. 2. Respect for law and order. Free agency is the right of intelligent choice, the right of decision. Freedom means the privilege to act within the prescribed limits of society. In its true meaning freedom does not allow one person's freedom to infringe upon the rights or freedom of another person. Knowing the law and living within the limits set, is the essence of freedom. The first contact with law and order comes in the family situation. Rules of conduct clearly defined and administered with wisdom in the home develop within each child his attitude toward law and order in his community, nation, and the kingdom of God. The home experience can develop within the child an attitude, either positive or negative, toward every venture in life. From the positive point of view much can be done here to establish a proper evaluation of self. With thoughtful guidance, confidence can be LESSON DEPARTMENT developed in the child's ability to solve his own problems and make his own decisions. The following points may be helpful in building confidence that may result in a successful life: (1) Help the child to understand the true meaning of discipline, to give proper recognition to authority, and to recognize the place and importance of obedience and conformity. (2) Make sure that the child knows the meaning and value of work. There is no substitute for hard work in any success formula. Of equal value in this formula is a recognition of the importance of organization of one's time, and the recognition of one's ability in relation to effort put forth. (3) Create in the child a never-ending thirst for knowledge, together with a systematic and related arrangement of facts toward one's objective. (4) Help the child develop an enthusiasm for life, his work, and for his religious convictions. (5) Above all, develop within the child humility with a respect for and an appreciation of God in his life. In brief, a child is a product of his home life more than of any other single influence. The development of character comes from the performance of daily tasks in light of the values that provide the basis of one's philosophy of life. 'The most important single thing parents do in the process of training children is living the example that harmonizes with the values being taught. 1. What evidence can be found in modern scripture that marriage is ordained of God? 795 Gleanings for the-'Harvest Season Celia Luce ppock into a pool and see my friend's face reflected there. But the image is distorted, and a passing breeze ruffling the water may blur it completly. What I can see of others is like the reflection, distorted. I cannot tell another's innermost thoughts and feelings. I cannot tell what he really is like. Words and actions are not plain enough. Since this is so, how can I judge another? I must leave judgment up to God. God has told me to deal in forgiveness and love, not judgment. ERE is only one person that I must continue to live with all my life; only one person I can never run away from. That person is myself. Since that is so, I had better make myself into the kind of person I will enjoy. I had better improve myself every day, for the better I behave, the easier I will live with myself. I had better practice the habit of looking at life with a smile, not a frown. I am the only person I have to live with all my life. But the kind of person I am will influence the kind of friends I draw to myself. So, improving myself will improve my chances of having wonderful persons as friends. MEN of the Orient have skill in taking a plain box of little worth and giving it coat after coat of lacquer. In the end the box is more lacquer than the original material, and becomes a thing of great beauty and high price. My habits are constantly adding coat after coat to my character. Am I using skill in applying the good and rejecting the bad? Beauty of character is something we all desire, along with the peace and joy that accompany it. I should like to be a person of worth to God. Mov" is the most effective revenge that was ever invented, for it heals breaches, instead of deepening them. I strike out in anger. If the other person strikes back, I seem justified, for, see, he has hit me again. The fight continues. If the person meets me with calm understanding, I am put in my place as an infant who is ruled by anger, not reason. There is no satisfaction for me in that. There is only shame. I must mend my ways or be thought a baby. The person who uses true love and understanding is never seeking revenge. He is seeking healing, not hate. 797 BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES —ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen 20 weanedETERNAL LIFE—Dungan 25 watGIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR —Berlin 25 a. IN THY FORM—Madser 20 _—HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn 20. 2 eee25 -.-. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Medser 25 MUSIC—Spross _..00 ee eee30 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT for Joy—Stephens 20 LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen 20 illLORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER—Verdi _ 0..0 22--+20 iLORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madser 20 waaPRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich 20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music indicated | above. \ \! | | | (1 On Approval [ Charge \ i i i! \; LJ Money Enclosed Name oon ccceceeeeeeceecsncceccececeneecoseceee 1 oO = "< Qo Ss Q n =~ Q — @ =e Ss es oe ee eee ee ee eee 15 E. Ist South! / salt Lake City 11, Utah HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California December through January Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Wood Duck on Water Ethel Jacobson Such an extravagance Of elegance, Of cunning curve against curve In intricate feathered counterpoint! And then such jewel colors — Emerald, sapphire, topaz — On throat and small sleek head! When these woods know you no more They will have lost What made them giow most brilliantly With beauty, And pulse most breathlessly With life. DEPARTING Travel the 1. Mexico & Acapulco November 28, 1964 2. Hawaiian Christmas Cruise 2 cee. December 20, 1964 Pd as ga, # ': 4 3. Rosebowl Football Game.. December 30, 1964 rl a 7 ay: 4. Africa cece. January 3, 1965 5. Book of Mormon Lands G0 MURDOCK TRAVEL ' (Central America January 16, 1965 6 Plan Now to Join One of; eevt csenecaceeaseaotFebruary 6, 1965 These Worry-Free, Quality, 7. South America February 26, 1965 All-Expense-Paid Tours: 8. Book of Mormon Lands ____. March 6, 1965 SEND FOR FREE BROCHURE AND FULL PARTICULARS MAIL COUPON TODAY! In © Coe SSSHOCHSOHHSHCHOHHHEHEHOHHOHRHOHEOHECHEHOCOEEHZHOEO Murdock Travel, Inc, 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone: 328-3161 Please send me my free brochure and full particulars on the following numbered tour(s) 1 52= 3 @4) 5 Ge 7 ae SHSSHSHSHSHSHSHEESHSHEESTHHEHSSEHHSH ATES HET ESO HHOOECE NEWS IN FOOD PACKAGING AND STORAGE FOR THE HOME SCIENCE HAS OPENED UP A NEW WORLD IN CREATIVE PACKAGING Commercially proven and dependable, these amazingly strong polyester film pouches, heat sealable in seconds with a small kitchen appliance, are now available to the homemaker. They are less expensive than tins or jars and reusable. Resistant to all chemicals, rust, rot, mold, moisture, vermin, and air tight; they are non creasable and tearable, non crackable and breakable when subjected to temperatures of —70° to 240°F. Pouch sizes vary from % Pt. To 1 Gal. E Excellent for LDS Food Storage Program. Store 2 Yrs.' supply ANY PLACE! @ Flavor-seal prepared meals for freezing and eating months later. An exciting new concept in meal making. Savings in time, food, work, space! @ Leakless ''cook-in-pouch'"' container for freezing fruits, vegetables, meats. E For canning fruits and jams. Economy, simplicity, space saving!! ® Carry pre-cooked meals in a weightless container on camping, vacation, and hunting trips. No tin cans, no bottles, no messy dishes, pots or pans. ® Miscellaneous packaging for every member of the family — limitless possibilities: Coins, tableware, paint, seeds/bulbs, precious documents, etc. ® Seal and freeze banquet leftovers. No waste. No flavor loss months later! @ Save $200 a year on food bill alone. Money back guarantee if you do not believe you have saved the cost of your Scotchpak in 90 days. Priced no higher than any other small kitchen appliance. Order Today From:— ECONO PAK, FREEPORT CENTER, CLEARFIELD, UTAH 84016 799 Ninety-nine Mrs. Pauline Bisegger Wale Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Julia Anna Dams Young Quayle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Alice Donaldson Butt Teton, Idaho Ninety-six Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Bertha Emelia Meyer Aubrey Kalamauia, Molokai Hawaii Ninety-five Mrs. Mari Berkeley Hurst Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Louisa W. Johnson Huntington, Utah Mrs. Emily Judd Toone Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Abigail Pearce Thomas West Los Angeles, California Ninety-three Mrs. Amelia Heppler Hansen Richfield, Utah Mrs. Martha Parks Hulse Salt Lake City, Utah 800 Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg Clearfield, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah Mrs. Ada May Worsham Denver, Colorado Mrs. Olive Salisbury Thomas Peoria, Illinois Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Midgley Perry Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mahala Jane Bracken St. George, Utah Mrs. Josephine Broberg Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Margaret Keeler Barron Ramona, California Mrs. Ruth Orton Hucknall, Nottingham England Mrs. Rose Adams Lindsey Curtis Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Beda Lund Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Margaret Petersen Maw Provo, Utah Mrs. Ida Mae Leiter Lee Price, Utah OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR 4 days — October 3 to October 6 Includes preview showing of Oakland Temple and San Francisco also OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR 4 days—October 10 to October 13 Same As Above HAWAIIAN TOURS October 17 to October 31 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands ROSE PARADE TOUR 7 days—December 27 to January 3 via Las Vegas and San Diego ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 days—December 26 to January 3 via San Francisco Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6.90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4. 65 Zone 8. 1.20 Zone 5.80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. —_ DESERET [PEws PREssS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 FOR MORE EEseGanivic INSTRUCTION Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Reading Time is here again | OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, An Anth- | ology of Literature, Volume I, (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas ® The exciting Relief Society reading course for 64-65! @ Great literature from the pens of Browning, Wordsworth, Burns, Emerson, and many others! @ A must for every LDS library! Only $2.95 — 15 cents postage 2THE LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE and COVENANTS, Volume III, Sections 77-106 by Roy W. Doxey @ The latest volume in a series analyzing the Doctrine and Covenants! @ Sections 77-106 as interpreted by General Authorities of the Church from Joseph Smith's time to the present! @ A remarkable study by one of the Church's foremost authorities on the Doctrine and Covenants! Only wii A —. Bos — _— Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | Dear Sir: Enclosed please find check [] money order [_] I have an account, please charge []. Amount | enclosed: $ for the above numbered | COMPANY ' books: 1 2 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Namea 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ° Address _ - 2-2. 222. -cceec cece eeeeeecocceceeee ceeeeeeeer cece still ees City ey AT eeState__ - -----'d ath p Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax
