[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 264 | General Feature | Editorial: The Language of Flowers in a Woman's Life Vesta | P. Crawford]
EDITORIAL APRIL 1963 NUMBER 4 The Language of Flowers in a Woman's Life [7 has been said that a child is richly blessed in being privileged to look upon the beautiful creations of earth while she is yet young, when memorable impressions are made upon the yielding mind. Even a babe may be seen to focus her eyes upon a bright blossom and reach for it. A little one, just learning to walk, perhaps may follow along the window sill and touch the flowers blooming there with fingers as fragile and tenderly tinted as the petals. And who has not observed a little girl reaping the lawn for a bouquet of dandelions? The child grows quickly into the time of tools — the rake and the hoe and the watering can and the planting of flower seeds in hope and faith. The meaning of flowers grows and deepens with the years as a girl child becomes a woman. The memories of her young years merge into plans and desires for a future time of homemaking. The flowers that marked the high school and the college graduations, that first rose corsage from a special person, have given the young woman a realization that flowers are symbolic — they rise from the earth and bloom and mark the seasons with beauty. They give their splendor to special 264 days and times — and as the flowers of one occasion disappear, the new days come and new flowers adorn the earth, new gardens surround new houses, and blossoms add color and comfort to the place called home. In some families there is a tender story of love and strength and the lineage of floral beauty that comes from older homes to newer ones, with the flowers far removed from the place of their nativity. A ranch in the wilderness of a western desert still flaunts its lilac blossoms in the spring, from a sturdy root brought from Nauvoo, and now, after a century, one seeing the lilac bushes would never know that they loved the desert less than their own green and rainy land. In one small town nearly all the windows — in all seasons — flaunt the splendor of pink geranium blossoms — hundreds of blossoms from one geranium plant that rode in a place of honor in a westward wagon. One woman gave a geranium slip to another, and so the blossoms were multiplied, and sometimes the town was called "geranium village," for the women loved color and beauty, and the humble adobe homes and log cabins were adorned in splendor. Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counsele: Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer And who would wonder why the pioneer women planted their outdoor flower gardens in precise rows — here a row of zinnias and then perhaps a row of nasturtiums, and, next to that gold and bronze display, the purple-blue of a row of Canterbury bells? Who would wonder at the sight of such a sedate garden, knowing that desert rains are infrequent, and water from the faraway mountains must be persuaded down a little ditch to water the precious rows of radiant color? And no one having once become acquainted with hardy yellow roses, which were the only roses around many pioneer homes — no one having rejoiced in yellow roses could say that they were not a comfort and a blessing and a gladness on the landscape. There are families in which the generations of pansies have given influence and an aura of gentle beauty to the women who are of the lineage of an English widow who gathered her children and her flower seeds and made a long journey in time, in miles, and in spirit. Even today, the descendants of that house established in a new land, still tenderly care for pansies whliose floral ancestors grew in profusion in the garden of a far country. Fortunate and blessed are those women who remember flowers given to them by their friends, their children, and their husbands. The ranch woman whose husband brought her a bouquet of bluebells from an oak brush thicket on a distant hill; the woman whose husband remembers special times with a little gift of flowers — perhaps only a single rose — its petals to be found years later pressed in a book of remembrance; the farmer in a country of foothills plowing all around a small circle of sego lilies, calling it his wife's garden. Though the husband and the wife have been many years away from their homestead and will not return, still the sego lilies bloom in springtime, and the place is known as a woman's garden. Once, not long ago, an elderly woman who was ill anxiously asked her granddaughter, "Tell me about the violets. Are they in bloom — is the color deep purple, as always...?" To her, and to many women, flowers are symbolic of the constant beauty of earth and the enduring love of family. —V. P. C.