[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 297 | Poem | What Did I Do lodayP by | Helen Sue Isely]
Helen Sue Isely The day is finished And the chirping twilight Fluffs out its golden feathers. What did I do? How did I spend my hours today? I listened to a meadow lark Tuning its bell voice, Calling for spring. I watched a nuthatch Go up and up a tree And round and round a limb And out upon a twig And over to another tree. I dream-shipped awhile With a large pigeon, Flapping big mauve and white wings Faster and faster, Farther and farther into the distance, Until he seemed no bigger Than a speck of star dust. I forgot many things today... January ice The heavy frost in March But I touched a thousand dreams, And one flaming truth took wings in my heart — Spring is here! 297 INCE chicken is a favorite of mine, and of many other people, I am happy to pass along some of the recipes that I have collected. Barbecue Chicken one large chicken, cut in pieces '4 c. Lemon juice jiffy barbecue sauce 3 tbsp. Sugar % ¢. Chopped onion 3 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce /, ¢. Cooking oil 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard % c. Tomato catsup 2 tsp. Salt % c. Water /> tsp. Pepper Cook onion until soft in a little water. Mix the remaining ingredients and heat. Pour into the onions and simmer 15 minutes. Arrange the pieces of chicken in a baking dish and pour the sauce over them. Bake 1% - 2 hours at 350 degrees. Place the cover on the dish after the sauce has started to bubble. (This sauce is good also on hamburgers or hot frankfurters. ) Serves 6. Chicken and Asparagus 2 tbsp. Shortening or cooking oil 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Flour 2 c. Diced cooked chicken "% tsp. Salt 2 ¢. Cooked asparagus tips, cut into pepper to taste 2-inch lengths paprika to taste tbsp. Chopped pimento 2 C. Cream or evaporated milk N Melt the shortening. Mix the flour and seasonings together and pour into the melted fat; stir until smooth. Add the cream and stir constantly until slightly thickened. Pour over the beaten egg and blend; add the chicken, asparagus tips, and pimento, and heat thoroughly. Serve on hot toast. Serves 4. This may be placed in a greased casserole with % c. Cracker crumbs sprinkled over the top and baked in the oven. 1 c. Of cooked broccoli could be used instead of asparagus. Chicken Dressing Casserole % c. Chopped celery 6 c. Dried bread broken into small pieces "2 ¢. Chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley dash of pepper " ¢. Butter ¥, - 1 tsp. Poultry seasonin 3 - 4c. Cooked diced chicken P. Poultry 8 __Sauté for about 5 minutes the celery, onion, and parsley in the butter; add the chicken, broken bread, and seasoning. 'Toss together thoroughly, and pour into a <. Casserole. Cover with chicken custard. Erves 8. 298 CL Myrtle E. Henderson Chicken Custard 1 c, chicken fat (part shortening, if 4 Slightly beaten eggs desired ) 1 c. Milk 1 c. Sifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 4 c. Chicken broth Melt chicken fat in large saucepan, and blend in the 1 c. Sifted flour. Gradually add the chicken broth and milk; stirring constantly. Add salt. Cook until very thick. Blend in the slightly beaten eggs and cook over low heat 3 - 4 minutes. Remove from heat and pour over the chicken and vegetable mixture. Bake 20 - 25 minutes at 350 degrees. Chicken Croquettes 1% c. Ground, cooked chicken 1 c. Thick white sauce 1 tsp. Celery salt 1 c. Fine bread crumbs 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. Chopped parsley % tsp. Onion juice salt and pepper to taste Add the chicken, seasonings, lemon juice, and parsley to the white sauce. Cool and shape into croquettes. Dip into crumbs then into egg mixed with onion juice and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat from 2 to 5 minutes. Molded Chicken Salad 1 envelope unflavored, unsweetened 1 tsp. Lemon juice gelatin 4% c, mayonnaise or salad dressing % c. Cold chicken stock 1 c. Diced cooked chicken % ¢. Hot chicken stock 3 tbsp. Minced green pepper % tsp. Salt % c. Diced celery Soften gelatine in cold chicken stock in top of double boiler. Add hot stock and salt and stir over boiling water until gelatin is dissolved. Cool and stir in the lemon juice and mayonnaise. Combine with the chicken, green pepper, and celery. Pour into large or individual molds. Makes 6 servings.