[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 288 | Special Feature | Do We Give Too Much? Joan | H. Haskins]
DO WE GIVE TOO MUCH? Before last years' Christmas, we held a family discussion. Each one decided to do without one large gift so that he could help a less fortunate family. The children were enthusiastic about this idea. Selecting a small tree and buying toys and clothing for the underprivileged family were the most rewarding parts of our holiday season. We hope to continue this practice so that we may again experience the special tranquility that comes with the giving of ourselves. Since we started to cut down on monetary pursuits, we have been cheerfully surprised to learn that our most successful family outings have been those which have re quired little financial support. One day we rode to a canyon and hiked through the woods. As we crunched through the brittle foliage, exclaiming delightedly at each new color evident on the trees, we felt God's generosity expressed in nature. Each tried to be his most delightful self so that this would be a special day. We realized the value that comes from the gift of love and knew that this gift could not be overdone. It is only the shallow stuffing of material gifts that frustrates and stifles our children. Ask yourself, am I giving too many material gifts? SELF-PORTRAIT \ X JE each paint the canvas of our own life. Ill, the lives of those who view the picture. Clean-cut brush strokes? Vibrant, harmonious? Picture out of balance? Or does our picture lack conviction. Or are they cold, inert, confused? Lasting values in relief and made the minor, trivial ones mere shadows? Ilow we paint, will affect, for good or Are we painting with bold, true, Are our colors warm, Have we placed the major, Or is) @tir No life-portrait is perfect. Let's retouch the canvas now, before it dries, to bring it nearer our desired goal of perfection. — Nancy M. Armstrong 289 hAAt mm on om pe 7 é a; I Winnifred Jardine S our young son, just Priesthood age, was readying for bed one Fast Sunday evening, he commented casually, "Do you know, Mom, we've said twenty-three prayers today." On enumerating them in the way of a teen-age boy, it wasn't hard to reach twenty-three at all. And I thought to myself, add onto those all the prayers of a mother, and the number would soon be lost. It is not only the secret prayers that a mother utters on her knees when she first slips out of bed in the morning, nor the one before a serious talk with her daughter, or after disciplining a son, nor when she prays for children during illnesses or exams, nor even her prayers for a husband's business problems. But it is also the many prayers she says with her children. Sister Lina Sonntag, who reared twelve fine sons and daughters (among them stake presidents, bishops, high councilmen), told me many years ago that she knelt down with every one of her children at night individually for his evening prayers, even when each was old enough to be coming in from dates. It didn't matter that she knelt down ten times during an evening. What really mattered was that each child knelt down once. During these hurried times, holding family prayers both night and morning isn't easy. It is a temptation to let them go occasionally or to hold them with only part of the family present. Gathering all family members about, be it early or late, under the loving authority of the father, is best, of course. But when this isn't possible, then the mother should be the connecting link of prayers held by the family. She can pray with the one who must leave before six a. For seminary. She can pray again with husband and school children. And if there is a little one who is ill and needs extra sleep, she can kneel again in prayer with him, so he, too, has participated. Again, it doesn't matter that she has said morning prayers three times. What does matter is that every child feels that he was present for family prayer. When a youngster has a difficult assignment or a special problem, it is the mother who encourages him to kneel with her to ask his Heavenly Father's help. When he has erred in his actions, it is the mother who kneels with her arm around him while he prays for forgiveness. And when he has received a blessing in abundance, it is the mother who reminds him in his joy that he should also kneel in thanksgiving. A mother needs to talk to the Lord often with her children. She must remember the prayer needs of each individual child and see that they are met, no matter how many times she gets to her own knees to do it. What better way can she keep the commandment of the Lord, "And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (Doctrine & Covenants 68:28). 290 I) Fuel Brimhall Paulson, Sacramento, California, loves to paint landscapes and still life. She is especially interested in painting indoor floral arrangements and outdoor fields of flowers. Her landscapes reflect an intimate feeling for the scenery of Arizona and New Mexico, where she lived before moving to California. Mrs. Paulson has become proficient in the use of both water colors and oils, employing the medium most suitable for each subject. Music has long been a sort of second hobby for Mrs. Paulson. She has served as ward organist, and organist for the auxiliary organizations in the wards where she has lived, often acting, also, as accompanist for choirs and solo and duet singing. She has found an artistic and creative relationship in the arts of music and painting, for she has particularly noted rhythm and color and tone in these arts. Mrs. Paulson has long served Relief Society as a visiting teacher, and has been active in work meeting activitigs. She is now a widow and two of her four sons are deceased. She has seven grandchildren. 291 VEGETABLE RECIPES Mary ]. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Asparagus Casserole 2 one-pound cans green asparagus cans cream of mushroom soup 1% four-ounce cans whole, button, pinch each of salt and sugar or sliced mushrooms tbsp. Butter, melted lightly 5 hard-boiled eggs can small green peas 1 lemon N = N Grease a shallow casserole or pan. Lay asparagus crosswise. Cover with sliced hard-boiled eggs, then a layer of peas. Sprinkle melted butter, then a layer of mushrooms, a little lemon juice, 1 can of cream of mushroom soup. Repeat the above layers, and top with toasted bread crumbs rolled fine, melted butter, and paprika. Cook in moderate oven (350°) about 15 minutes. String Beans 2 pkgs. Frozen French-cut beans 1 can mushroom soup cooked and seasoned 1 can fried onions Put in casserole, top with plenty of nippy cheese. Bake in 350° oven for 15 or 20 minutes.