[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 253 | Poem | Always With Delight | Vesta N Fairboirn]
Always With Delight Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn These things my hands have loved to touch: smooth jade That holds the shadowed green of mountain pool; Worn leather of a long-loved book, brocade, Small ocean-polished pebbles, wet and cool; All old, old woods grown rich with use and age Whose soft patina shows the patterned grain; A gold-illuminated parchment page, Rare cloisonné, and fine, thin porcelain. But with the most delight, my fingers trace The living warmth and movement of your face. 253 — Pad m eo > y * a 7 wae _% See I ood nd "mage" e/ = es = ~ men nN = © me en) ie) el 254 The Story of Kee-Vee-Wah-Cha (Lucy King) Ot TR years a7'0 on the Fort McDoai i A p he R. ] T mt i I ] I } tion afternoon on the Verde River t in the mesquite shade Vs < HVE Sister Lucy King told the her long and eventful lif 'Bye Ahawheata killful inte rpretatio1r bridged Our communicatio! Ty HO three hours the breezy words born in wide and open spaces found then way into English to paint a pictur of days and ways now gone. A fev days later we returned to Sister King and my English rendition was tl lated into her native tongu Back and forth she rocked, chuckling d« lightedly. Occasionally, she coul contain her thoughts no commented pointedI "She is pleased," Dora Ahawheata interpreted. "She says that you have put the thoughts of her heart upon paper. She asks if she may have copies for all her children, that th may ha 1 ot the wav of things in her lifetime. Lige Wd LeECOre Here than ic #i 17.] + if WU i} 4 I a] Ca I i l t the 1 2 Vi i 5 i HE heart of Arizona was the homeland of my people. It must be in legend time that God created the Yavapai for this land between Clarkdale and _ Prescott. Here my people dwelt in peace and plenty. 'There was no white man on the face of Arizona, none. Here in Yavapai-land my grandparents dwelt, here the brave Rayvah wed Hah-dee, and to them were born my brothers, William Eddie and Owl 'Tail, and my sisters, Keeeve-ja and Bahk-see who later was called Mary Stacy. Then to Prescott and Camp Verde came white soldiers in covered wagons and on horse. 'They encircled my people. Men, women, and children were encompassed round about. By force were they abducted from the land of the Yavapai. By the strangers were they taken to live among the San Carlos Apaches on land given them by the white man's chief. And as time passed they were no longer known as Yavapai, but were called by a white man's error Mojave-Apache. The white men sought to capture Geronimo, an Apache chief. My father, Ray-vah, joined the other Yavapai braves who served as scouts for the white men. 'The scouts were well paid. 'The government fed us well. Here at San Carlos was I born and called Kee-vee-wah-cha, because 


 the sound of it and the look of me pleased my mother. Then Ray-vah, my father, began to look very old. Gray-white was his hair. In my fifth year he sickened and died. N those days the white man determined to teach his ways to our young people. 'There was no school closer than Grand Junction, Colorado. 'That place was far from our campfires. Only the brave were glad to go. When I was six years old, old enough to be taken from my family for white man's training, my mother began to fear the loss of her baby, for I was the last child she bore. She was certain I would sicken and die if I were taken from her care. Each day she prepared food and water for me to carry into the hills where my sisters and I cowered silently all day, listening for the sound of the white policeman who looked for all school-age children who did not report for education. As twilight came we would scurry home to supper and safety for the night, only to spend another day as fear-frozen quail hiding from the enemy. Each Saturday, when my mother went for her family food ration, the Government agent studied the family card and asked if she had any children of school age. My mother had no children who should learn white man's ways. And so it was that I have never learned to read or write or speak the white man's tongue. Nor did any of my mother's children go to school. We "escaped" the white men who policed the reservation. 256 Sometime that year my mother, Hah-dee, took a second husband into our tepee. He was called Jah-pu which means Shorty. He was a kind man. Those were good days. All winter long the fire burned in our tepee. As we wove baskets my mother told the legends of our people. When summer brings its creeping, crawling life it is not good to tell the ancient legends. 'The telling is a winter thing, to be enjoyed when canvas is pulled close to shield the brush tepee from wind and rain. In metates we ground the corn fine and started each day with mush, drinking a brew of crushed dried redberries sweetened with mescale. We lunched on stew or Indian squash cooked with meat or fried in meat drippings. Supper was a cold meal, finishing the day's food. HEN summer days ripened the prickly pear, we teen-age girls slung special high baskets upon our backs, woven during the legendlistening time. Each carried a specially shaped -stick for harvesting the fruit of the prickly pear cactus. We filled our baskets and took them to a brush-bed prepared in a shady place. Here we took other pieces of brush and rolled back and forth the fruit we had emptied on the brushbed. When the stickers were all rolled off, we put the fruit back into the baskets and took them home to be eaten as apples are eaten. None of us ate as we gathered fruit or berries. Nor did the young men eat of the meat they killed to bring back to camp. Each ate of another's kill. All was shared by the entire people. To eat of one's own gathering or hunting was to become selfish and lazy. This we were taught early. We believed our efforts must be for the good of all. When I was nearly eighteen my parents chose a young man, Hugo Bah-nah-hah. Arrangements were made for our marriage as was our custom. That first year my mother visited me often in my tepee. She spoke much of her loneliness. Then my first girl-child was born and I called her Mabel. Not long afterward an Apache, Justin. Head, killed five men. One of them was my stepfather Jah-pu. Now Hah-dee could stand her loneliness no longer. She urged me, and I took my daughter with me, returning to my mother's tepee. Mabel was a year old. When the child was three years old I met Ralph King and love came to me. We were married and came to make our home at Fort McDowell. A year later my daughter Lola was born. A few years later Nina was born. The girls grew into beautiful young women. Mabel died the first year of her marriage. Lola has given me four grandchildren. Nina and her husband Frank Smith have given me five. ERE beside the Verde River which flows from the mountain springs not far from Jerome have I lived most of my life. By this Indian river flowing from the heart of Yavapai-land I have waited for knowledge. Though the white men irrigate their land with Indian water, this is all. Right.