[Vol50 | April 1963 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Home | Title: Unusual Vegetable Recipes for Special Occasions Mary J. Wilson]
UNUSUAL    VEGETABLE    RECIPES    FOR    SPECIAL    OCCASIONS 
Zucchini 
Slice  7  or  8  zucchini  Vz  inch  thick  and  parboil  in  enough  salted  water  to  cover. 
In  frying  pan  saute  i  bell  pepper  sliced,  and  one  medium-sized  onion  sliced.  Add  to 
drained  zucchini.  Add  parsley  to  taste,  finely  chopped,  and  one  can  of  water  chestnuts, 
sliced  thin.  Season  with  Italian  seasoning  (a  combination  of  seasonings),  or  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  put  in  casserole,  and  cover  with  grated  cheese.  Bake 
15  to  20  minutes  at  350°. 
Onions  and  Raisins 
2  lbs.  small  white  onions 
Vi    c.  seedless  raisins 
1   c.  water 
'/4    c.  sugar 
4    c.  vmegar 
^    c.  tomato  sauce 
3  tbsp.  oil  or  butter 
salt  and  pepper 
Cook  raisins  and  onions  until  tender  in  syrup  made  by  first  bringing  sugar,  water, 
and  vinegar  to  a  boil.  Add  tomato  sauce,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Tomato  Fritters 
1  qt.  tomatoes 
3  slices  onion 
6  whole  cloves 
3  tbsp.  butter 
Vi   tsp.  salt 
2  tbsp.  sugar 
c.  cornstarch 
one  egg,  or  more,  slightly  beaten 
cracker  crumbs 
beaten  egg 
fat  for  frying 
Cook  tomatoes,  onion,  and  cloves  15  minutes,  strain,  and  add  butter,  salt,  and 
sugar.  Mix  Vi  cup  cornstarch  with  cold  juice.  Cook  5  minutes  and  add  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Cook  two  more  minutes.  Cool  until  firm.  Cut  in  squares  (not  too  large), 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  egg,  and  more  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Keep  in 
warm  place  until  ready  to  serve. 
Fancy  Spinach 
Saute  1  tbsp.  chopped  onion  in  2  tbsp.  butter.  Season  well  with  paprika.  Add 
1  tbsp.  flour  and  blend,  then  add  %  cup  milk  (half  evaporated)  and  cook.  It  makes  a 
medium  thick  cream  sauce.  Add  dash  of  tabasco.  Add  1  package  of  cooked  frozen  spin- 
ach and  salt  to  taste  and  pour  into  greased  casserole.  Add  sliced  cheese  and  buttered 
bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  paprika,  brown  in  oven. 
Carrots  Supreme 
c.  finely  cubed  carrots  (pre-cooked  for 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  enough 
water  to  cover) 
tbsp.  chopped  onion 
tbsp.  chopped  green  pepper 
salt  to  taste 
-  1  Vi  tbsp.  fat  for  frying 
(butter  or  bacon  grease) 
tbsp.  flour 
c.  liquid  from  carrots 
tbsp.  cream 
tbsp.  buttered  bread  crumbs 
Cook  onion  and  green  pepper  in  fat  until  soft  (not  brown).  Add  flour  and  juice 
from  carrots,  salt,  and  cream,  and  cook  until  mixture  thickens  (makes  nice  thick  white 
sauce).  Combine  carrots  with  sauce.  Cover  with  crumbs.  Bake  20  minutes  or  until 
brown  at  350°. 
293

APRIL  1963 
Corned  Beef  Stuffed  Cabbage 
6  large  leaves  of  cabbage 
boiling  water  to  cover  cabbage 
1  %  tsp.  salt 
2  c.  ground  corned  beef 
1  Vi  c.  soft  bread  crumbs 
8  tbsp.  (  Vi   c.)  finely  chopped  onions 
/4  tsp.  freshly  ground  black  pepper 
Vi 
c.  butter,  melted 
c.  finely  chopped  celery 
c.  finely  chopped  green  pepper 
c.  diced  fresh  tomato 
c.  finely  shredded  carrots 
c.  plus  2  tsps.  water 
tsp.  cornstarch 
1.  Preheat  oven  to  350°  with  rack  in  center. 
2.  Place  the  cabbage  leaves  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water  to  cover,  containing 
one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  and  cook  on  top  of  stove  three  minutes,  or  until  leaves 
have  wilted.     Drain,  reserving  two  tablespoons  of  the  stock. 
3.  Mix  the  corned  beef,  bread  crumbs,  four  tablespoons  of  the  onion,  one-quarter 
teaspoon  of  the  salt,  black  pepper,  butter,  and  stock. 
4.  Lay  cabbage  leaves  flat  and  top  each  with  one-half  cup  of  the  corned  beef 
mixture.  Fold  leaves  over  stuffing  and  fasten  ends  with  toothpicks.  Put  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish. 
5.  Cook  together  the  celery,  green  pepper,  carrot,  tomato,  one  cup  of  the  water, 
and  remaining  onion.  Add  the  remaining  salt,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Pour  over  cabbage  rolls.  Cover  and  bake  30  to  40  minutes,  basting  occasionally. 
Remove  cabbage  rolls  to  a  serving  dish. 
6.  Blend  the  cornstarch  with  the  remaining  water.  Add  to  the  sauce  and  cook, 
stirring  one  minute,  or  until  thick.  Pour  over  cabbage  rolls.  Six  servings.  (Copyright 
by  New  York  Times.    Reprinted  by  permission.) 
Green  Rice 
2  c.  uncooked  rice  4  eggs,  beaten 
2  c.  Cheddar  cheese  Vi  c.  melted  butter 
2  c.  milk  1  small  onion,  chopped 
2  c.  chopped  parsley  salt  to  taste 
1.  Boil  rice  in  salted  water  until  tender.    Drain. 
2.  Grate  cheese  and  chop  parsley  and  onion. 
3.  Add  all  other  ingredients  to  rice. 
Bake  %  to  1  hr.  in  350"  oven.  Put  into  mold  ring.     In  center  put  creamed  ham 
and  mushrooms. 
Mashed  Potato  Surprise 
A   c.  butter 
1  c.  finely  chopped  onion 
1  lb.  fresh  sliced  mushrooms 
salt 
pepper 
2  tsp.  parsley,  minced 
mashed  potatoes 
butter  for  topping  as  needed 
Melt  butter  and  add  chopped  onion.  Cook  until  soft,  then  add  mushrooms  and 
cook  five  minutes.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  parsley. 
Cover  bottom  and  sides  of  a  2-qt.  casserole  with  a  coating  of  butter,  then  a  thick 
layer  of  mashed  potatoes.  Fill  hollow  in  the  center  with  the  onion  and  mushroom  mix- 
ture and  cover  with  more  mashed  potatoes.  Dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  500°  oven 
until  browned,  about  fifteen  minutes. 
294

UNUSUAL    VEGETABLE    RECIPES    FOR    SPECIAL    OCCASIONS 
Vegetable  Casserole 
4  tomatoes  2  large  sticks  celery 
2  onions  salt 
2  potatoes  pepper 
3  carrots  butter  for  topping 
Slice  vegetables  fine.  Place  in  layers  with  salt  and  pepper  in  casserole.  Put  four 
pats  of  butter  on  top.  Cook  at  375°  1  /4  hours.  Canned  tomatoes  may  be  substituted. 
Serves  6-8. 
Clam  and  Eggplant  Casserole 
1  eggplant  1  egg,  beaten 
y^   lb.  butter  or  margarine  1   can  minced  clams 
1  Vz    c.  cracker  crumbs  seasonings  to  taste 
Pare,  dice,  and  boil  eggplant  until  soft.  Drain,  add  butter,  cracker  crumbs,  egg, 
and  clams,  including  liquid.  Season  to  taste,  pour  into  buttered  casserole,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  45  minutes.    Serves  6-8. 
Mushrooms  Florentine 
1  lb.  fresh  mushrooms  /4    c.  melted  butter 
2  pkgs.  frozen  spinach  1   c.  American  Cheddar  cheese 
1  tsp.  salt  garlic  salt 
!4    c.  chopped   onions 
Wash  and  dry  mushrooms.  Slice  off  stems  and  slice  mushrooms.  Saute  caps  and 
stems  until  brown.  Line  a  shallow  1  Yz  inch  deep  casserole  with  defrosted,  uncooked 
spinach  which  has  been  seasoned  with  salt,  chopped  onion,  and  melted  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  Yz  cup  grated  cheese.  Arrange  mushrooms  over  spinach.  Season  with  a  little 
garlic  salt.  Cover  with  remaining  cheese.  Bake  for  20  minutes  at  350°  or  until 
cheese  is  melted  and  browned.    Serves  10. 
Spinach  Pea  Souffle 
1   pkg.  frozen  peas  4  egg  yolks  beaten 
1   pkg.  frozen  spinach  4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 
1   pt.  thick  white  sauce 
Cook  peas  and  spinach  until  tender  and  make  into  puree  with  blender  or  sieve. 
Add  white  sauce  and  egg  yolk  and  mix.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Cook  in  double  boiler 
for  1  hour,  or  in  mold  in  oven  (in  pan  of  water)  at  350".    Serves  10-12. 
Onion  Souffle 
1  c.  sliced  or  diced  onion  1  c.  milk 
3  tbsp.  butter  3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 
3  tbsp.   (or  more)  flour  3  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Cook  onion  in  butter  until  yellow.  Blend  in  flour,  add  seasonings  and  milk  and 
cook  until  thickened.  Add  egg  yolks  and  cook  slowly  for  1  minute.  Cool  for  ten 
minutes  or  more.  Fold  in  egg  whites  and  bake  in  unbuttered  dish  at  350°  for  about  30 
minutes  or  until  firm.     Serves  6-8. 
295