[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 281 | Home | I Never Knew My Grandparents Were Poor Mabel | Luke Anderson]
[I Never Knew My Grandparents Were Poor Mabel Luke Anderson]

lemondrops which we usually won with a few wiles. Their tiny home, snuggled close to the kindly soil, was cosy. The furnishings reflected the skills and crafts of humble folk. On the mantel shelf were glass and china ornaments, mementos, a vase of everlasting flowers, and the coal-oil lamp which would be transferred to the table when darkness came. A woven rag carpet over straw padding covered the front room floor. White crocheted doilies were on the cupboard shelves, on the chairbacks, and on the family pictures hanging on the wall. Crisp white curtains were at the windows, windows filled with carefully tended begonias and geraniums, and a hanging plant spangled with little white stars, appropriately called Star of Bethlehem. A water bucket stood on a bench, with a dipper hanging above. Not many years before she died she had a sink put in with running water, and she thought there was nothing that could surpass that luxury. Her coal stove shone, she was so proud of it. And always there was a steaming teakettle on it. E loved to stay at Grandma's, where we slept in a folding bed, sinking down into feather mattresses. I think, small as we were, we were aware of the simple artistry of the patchwork quilt that covered us. 'This was sanctuary. I still have one or two things of Grandma's, not priceless heirlooms, but comely souvenirs of simpler ways and days than our own. I don't suppose that in actual cash they had many dollars a year in their hands. A sugarbowl back 282 in the cupboard saved the money for taxes. 'There was never anything bought on credit. They were of the firm opinion that if you owed anything you never owned anything. They had a warm shelter from the elements, sufficient clothing to cover them, and of good substantial food there was plenty. 'The smell of Swedish baking of buns, breads, and caraway cakes was mouth watering. There were always honey cookies in the stone jar. In the deep, cool cellar pans of milk were in the screened cupboard, home-cured bacon and hams hung from nails in the ceiling. There were shelves of home-canned fruit and bins of apples, potatoes, and onions. We liked to eat at the grandparents' house; always there was a snowwhite cloth and milk out of a pitcher covered with blue flowers. When we wanted a "piece," Grandma would hold the huge loaf of homemade bread in the crook of her arm and spread the butter on the end, then cut an inch-thick slice. 'There were plenty of jams and preserves on the pantry shelf, but the rich, newly churned butter spread so thick your teeth left marks, was food fit for a queen. But there was a temptation to add a layer of groundcherry preserves or wild-plum jelly. Sure, memory colors it, flavors it, but was there ever anything more delicious? There were trees around Grandpa's house and deep grass, not often cut, to play in. A sturdy swing hung from a strong limb of one tree, and a homemade hammock strung between two others provided places to play. In June and July there was the sweet nostalgic smell of the summer apples to be had for the picking or climbing. When friends or family gathered at Grandma's, children went along. All were assured a welcome and no one was ever allowed to go without a taste of whatever was in the cupboard. No matter how busy our grandparents were, their eyes were alight with welcome. If it was a quilting party, we children loved to play under the quilt until we were sent outside, for they believed that children should be seen and not heard — too much. There were happiness and good cheer at those gatherings. I am sure there was no talk of salaries, of strikes, of wage boosts, of diets and installments and automobile problems. Surely they had their troubles; certainly, if we had to live as they did, we would think so, but life seemed to be free from financial urgency. I am sure that the last thing that worried them was keeping up with their neighbors. But it wasn't all play and fun when we went to visit the grandparents. They believed that, beginning young, one must be taught there was work in this world to do, and no one had any right to get out of it. We fed the pigs and! NEVER KNEW MY GRANDPARENTS WERE POOR chickens, herded the cow; into a little basket we gathered eggs, carried in chips for the fire; standing on a stool by the table, wiped dishes, and sitting on the same stool at Granny's knee, we learned to dam. We learned that there must be thythm, as we churned and watched expectantly for the butter to Because they were Swedish, June 23, midsummer, meant much to them and, together with other Swedes in town, they celebrated. And we were included. 'There were singing and games and stories of the "old country." With life lived at a similar level, they found fresh savor in smaller things. Were they really poor, those folks? Remembering those days gives me an illusion of sharing in a way of life that has gone forever, but nothing can take away this childhood dowry of essential goodness. I know now that my grandparents were poor, but only in superficial things thought to be important now, for they were rich in faith, love, humility, kindliness, frugality, honesty, industry, Christian virtues. Because of them I am rich — rich in the heritage they left me. GLARE AND MOONLIGHT Ip CORING out from a brightly li important. Of great enchantment., the moonlight seems dim and unWalking outside, ala gam, he to it, moonlight is a glow Just so, I must not let the glare of prejudice blind me to the beauty of character of others I meet. — Celia L.