[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 244 | Special Feature | The Lord, Easter, and Me S. | Dilworth Young]
The Relief society Magazine APRIL 1963, Vol 50, Number 4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager U0 ek 20e a copy payable in adi en pe y ~ Magazine i not +t attiat cnhteiiunt A,. } 4 ot numbe can I lied ry address onee, giving ¢ AI Ente re Y -cla Ty » > und May In sectl 110: i A >t C O j returne { less tury postage i months only. The Magazine is not responsibk 243 'The Lord, EKaster, and Me Elder S. Dilworth Young Of The First Council of Seventy JT was a hot day in June when Joseph Smith rode into Carthage, Illinois, accompanied by Willard Richards, John Taylor, Ammon Tenney, and several other friends. The feeling of foreboding which was the mood of the little group was not shared by those they left behind in Nauvoo. Hadn't Joseph circumvented his enemies before? 'Those who had been lulled by the blandishmental hypocrisy of his supposed friends were unconcerned. Then the blow fell. A foaming horse and dusty rider burst in with the news. Joseph was dead, Hyrum, too, John Taylor grievously wounded. Desolation of feeling enveloped the saints. Amid mighty outbursts of suffering from grief, the wailing cry of the family of Joseph reached toward the heavens. 'There seemed to be no relief. It couldn't be, but it was! This modern-day tragedy is close enough to us for us to be able to sense the devastation of the sorrow of that day. When calmer minds took charge, the saints, bowed as they were with despair, and the fear of further hurt, rose to the new hope of the teachings left them by the Prophet. This was the first time in eighteen hundred years that a Prophet had been slain. Their comfort was that prophets would continue to come. 244 Comforting their souls during the time of sorrow was the prophetic knowledge of the gospel. The Lord Jesus had come; he had revealed his mind and will; he would still guide them; Joseph had passed through the veil, but it was a thin veil; he was near. He would carry on his great work in the spirit world. Surely it would not be long before such a spirit as his would be able to receive his resurrection. The resurrection — that was the hope which kept hope alive. This modern scene, enacted in minor key many times in the lives of all of us, is made bearable by an act of the Lord Jesus Christ nearly two thousand years ago. So much is it the key to our hopes and the calming of our dread of death, that each spring all of the Christian world celebrates this harbinger of our future lives. 'That which is common knowledge and common hope today was not always the sustaining prop of the people. The doctrine of the resurrection was taught from the beginning. But always there have been men of no hope but strong voice, who have philosophically talked themselves out of the possibility of such a thing. And they have converted others to their point of view. They, seeing not, believed not. Such a remarkable and unexplainable event as a coming forth from the tomb had never happened. For 2000 years sitice Moses, and for a long time before that, hope had been raised, fed, beaten down, died. Prophets had proclaimed it, themselves died, and so far as anyone knew, still occupied their silent bit of earth. HEN one day messengers found a man named Jesus. "Our brother is sick unto death. Come quickly!" But he delayed two days. He had taught them and they had not quite comprehended. Finally, he arrived outside the little town of Bethany where Martha met him. "Lord," was her greeting, "if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died." Somehow she felt he could do something if he would, "But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee." "Thy brother shall rise again." She replied, "I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day." What Jesus said next, Martha did not quite understand, but she knew, nevertheless, that the Lord was speaking eternal truth. "I am the resurrection, and the Mine." And she, with that, acknowledged him to be the Redeemer. The rest of what he implied was lost to her and her sister in the overpowering joy of the restoration of Lazarus to mortal life. If the Lord meant to impress these simple believing people that his was the power of resurrection, they didn't seem to understand the message.

THE LORD, EASTER, AND ME witness what took place a short time later. HE sorrowing women watched the brethren release the expired Savior from the cross. It was finished. He was dead. The promise of life and resurrection seemed purposeless. What they had dreamed and hoped was empty and futile. They watched as he was laid in the temporary tomb. No one would break the law of the Sabbath. The body would have to wait until the first day for embalming and encasement in the permanent linen shroud. They saw the heavy stone rolled into place and sealed. 'They saw the guard posted. They went despairing away. What they did on the Sabbath has never been said, but for the morning of Sunday the plan was to bring ointments and unguents and spices to prepare the body. Mary Magdalene came early. 'The stone was rolled away. 'The tomb was empty. Panic-stricken that, in spite of precautions taken, ghouls had stolen the body, she hurried to the place where the apostles had taken refuge. The message she delivered was the cause of the most famous foot race ever recorded by man. John, younger, won it, but hesitated at the door of the tomb. Peter rushed up, and impetuously rushed in. Their reactions differed. John, who wrote the account, said that he believed, and by that statement perhaps implied that Peter doubted. But both must have agreed that some marvelous event had occurred. But to Mary Magdalene was reserved the honor of first seeing the risen Lord. And because of it the 


 importance of women to the work of the Lord is forever made secure. Not Peter, not John, but Mary. Took. The glad word to the apostles. The resurrection was not mysterious, not philosophically doubtful. It was a simple fact. The Son of God had laid down his life, and had by his power, the same power that brought Lazarus back to mortal life, reunited his spirit with a changed and glorified body. He was resurrected — united forever, and glorified. What does this mean to you and to me? Man today imagines that he will conquer the stars. 'The whirling, tenuous nebulae in the distant reaches of space seem to be within his grasp. With organized earthly material, chemically excited, and physically controlled, he envisions probing the mysteries of the universe. 'To what purpose does the effort take him? He knows not, then he dies — and his faith dies with him. That morning, when the risen Lord said, "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father," saw brought into being a law as much higher than the laws of physics and chemistry, as the distant galaxy is higher than this puny earth. The Lord God controls the earth, but on his own terms. HE truth of that Sunday morning meeting nearly two millenniums ago was reaffirmed one day in the spring of 1820. But it also revealed a greater truth. Not only was Christ a resurrected, glorified Savior, but he has a glorified resurrected Father. Here, for the first time in the recorded history of the 246 world, was made manifest the truth of the statement in Genesis, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness...." As he did in the time of his first coming, the Lord has for the last time swept aside the cobwebs of man's erroneous thinking for eighteen hundred years, and stated once more in simple terms his relationship to man, and what he desires man's relationship to him to be. Repentance from sin now has meaning; for he said he will forgive the repentant one, and give him place in his kingdom. It makes firm in our souls that the resurrection is literally for all; that someday, you and I, and everybody, will take up our bodies and become eternally complete — body and spirit united. It makes it possible for us to understand what it means to dwell in his presence, to share his glory, to inherit "All that my Father has." Each has his place in this great order, fathers, mothers, children. In a deeper sense each Sunday is Easter. 'To us a reminder and a renewal is provided weekly. The sacrament, by which we repledge ourselves to take upon us his name, and to always remember him and keep his commandments, brings fresh to our souls the nearness of the coming of his millennium, that at long last he will bring his work to fulfillment in righteousness. Finally, in its earthly application, we have an obligation to our children to teach them the truth about Easter. Surely the lesson of the death and resurrection of the Lord is full of enough meaning, without confusing it with rabbits and colored eggs. Would it not be better to revive for their sakes on this day of solemn memorial the Savior's injunction of pure teaching, "Suffer the little children to come unto me..."? We glimpse eternity. 'The Lord Jesus died on the cross and was resurrected nearly two thousand years ago. He came and revealed himself to Joseph Smith. In the Lord's time, two thousand years is but a day. Before that time he worked with the people through his prophets for more than two thousand years. Let us hope that he will be equally patient with us as the time for fulfillment draws nigh.
