[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 0 | Fiction | Keep My Own — Chapter 4 | ]
30 Ww Keep My Own Kit Linford CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Irene Spencer, who met her husband Dick in South Africa, feels lonely and discouraged as she tries to adjust to her new surroundings in a small town near Salt Lake City. Dick has taken her to the shabby old family home, and her new household consists of Dick's Grandfather, his Aunt Ella, and his small handicapped brother David. However, as Irene and Ella scrub and clean and polish the house, a feeling of belonging there comes to Irene, and she feels a loving tenderness toward David and a responsibility for the boy. UMMER aged rapidly as work S on the house progressed. Hot gusts of wind slapped at Irene as she hurried to and from necessary errands. Infrequent thunder showers gave little respite. 'They arrived too seldom and were obliterated too soon by the acid sun. Granddad met her late one sweltering afternoon as she hurried into the inviting coolness of the house. The thick walls rejected much of the heat, keeping the interior refreshingly cool. "Hot weather getting you down?" he asked kindly. "You forget where I come from." She shook her head. "South Africa is much hotter than this. I'm used to heat." She shifted her. Groceries from one arm to the other. "Here, let me take those for you," Granddad said. She relinquished them as they made their way to the 304 kitchen, and he went on, "Well, if we can endure it for another month or so, the weather will start to break. Some folks like spring best of any time of year. I like it, too, after months of winter, but autumn is my favorite. Wait until you see our mountains in the fall of the year. They're almost too beautiful to be true. All red and gold and brown and yellow... And a little green that's too tenacious to change until snow falls. Ella goes into the hills and brings back huge bouquets of fall leaves to decorate the house for Thanksgiving. 'The heat loosens its grip, and the nights are cool. We have a little rain, but not a lot. Yes, if I had to choose a time of