[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 292 | Home | Unusual Vegetable Recipes for Special Occasions Mary | J. Wilson]
UNUSUAL VEGETABLE RECIPES FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Zucchini Slice 7 or 8 zucchini % inch thick and parboil in enough salted water to cover. In frying pan sauté 1 bell pepper sliced, and one medium-sized onion sliced. Add to drained zucchini. Add parsley to taste, finely chopped, and one can of water chestnuts, sliced thin. Season with Italian seasoning (a combination of seasonings), or salt and pepper to taste. Mix all together, put in casserole, and cover with grated cheese. Bake 15 to 20 minutes at 350°. Onions and Raisins 2 lbs. Small white onions 4 €. Vinegar /2 ¢. Seedless raisins % c. Tomato sauce 1 ¢. Water 3 tbsp. Oil or butter "4 €. Sugar salt and pepper Cook raisins and onions until tender in syrup made by first bringing sugar, water, and vinegar to a boil. Add tomato sauce, butter, salt, and pepper. Tomato Fritters 1 qt. Tomatoes "2 ¢. Cornstarch 3 slices onion one egg, or more, slightly beaten 6 whole cloves cracker crumbs 3 tbsp. Butter beaten egg "2 tsp. Salt fat for frying 2 tbsp. Sugar Cook tomatoes, onion, and cloves 15 minutes, strain, and add butter, salt, and sugar. Mix % cup cornstarch with cold juice. Cook 5 minutes and add egg slightly beaten. Cook two more minutes. Cool until firm. Cut in squares (not too large), roll in cracker crumbs, egg, and more cracker crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Keep in warm place until ready to serve. Fancy Spinach Sauté 1 tbsp. Chopped onion in 2 tbsp. Butter. Season well with paprika. Add 1 tbsp. Flour and blend, then add %% cup milk (half evaporated) and cook. It makes a medium thick cream sauce. Add dash of tabasco. Add 1 package of cooked frozen spinach and salt to taste and pour into greased casserole. Add sliced cheese and buttered bread crumbs, sprinkle with paprika, brown in oven. Carrots Supreme 2 c. Finely cubed carrots (pre-cooked for 1-1 tbsp. Fat for frying ten or fifteen minutes in enough (butter or bacon grease) water to cover ) 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Chopped onion % ¢. Liquid from carrots 2 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 4 tbsp. Cream salt to taste 3 tbsp. Buttered bread crumbs Cook onion and green pepper in fat until soft (not brown). Add flour and juice from carrots, salt, and cream, and cook until mixture thickens (makes nice thick white sauce). Combine carrots with sauce. Cover with crumbs. Bake 20 minutes or until brown at 350°. E 


 ¢ atdat-le Raar wind ~r € malalataltalr~ 6 large leaves of cabbage % c. Butter, melted boiling water to cover cabbage ' c. Finely chopped celery 1% tsp. Salt % c. Finely chopped green pepper 2 c. Ground corned beef "2 ¢. Diced fresh tomato 1% c. Soft bread crumbs ' c. Finely shredded carrots 8 tbsp. (% c.) finely chopped onions 1 c. Plus 2 tsps. Water % tsp. Freshly ground black pepper 1 tsp. Cornstarch 1. Preheat oven to 350° with rack in center. 2. Place the cabbage leaves in a saucepan with boiling water to cover, containing one teaspoon of salt. Cover and cook on top of stove three minutes, or until leaves have wilted. Drain, reserving two tablespoons of the stock. 3. Mix the corned beef, bread crumbs, four tablespoons of the onion, one-quarter teaspoon of the salt, black pepper, butter, and stock. 4. Lay cabbage leaves flat and top each with one-half cup of the corned beef mixture. Fold leaves over stuffing and fasten ends with toothpicks. Put in a shallow baking dish. 5. Cook together the celery, green pepper, carrot, tomato, one cup of the water, and remaining onion. Add the remaining salt, bring to a boil, and cook two minutes. Pour over cabbage rolls. Cover and bake 30 to 4o minutes, basting occasionally. Remove cabbage rolls to a serving dish. 6. Blend the cornstarch with the remaining water. Add to the sauce and cook, stirring one minute, or until thick. Pour over cabbage rolls. Six servings. (Copyright by New York Times. Reprinted by permission. ) Green Rice 2 c. Uncooked rice 4 eggs, beaten 2 c. Cheddar cheese ' c. Melted butter 2 c. Milk 1 small onion, chopped 2 c. Chopped parsley salt to taste 1. Boil rice in salted water until tender. Drain. 2. Grate cheese and chop parsley and onion. 3. Add all other ingredients to rice. Bake % to 1 hr. In 350° oven. Put into mold ring. In center put creamed ham and mushrooms. Mashed Potato Surprise % c. Butter pepper 1 ¢. Finely chopped onion 2 tsp. Parsley, minced 1 lb. Fresh sliced mushrooms mashed potatoes salt butter for topping as needed Melt butter and add chopped onion. Cook until soft, then add mushrooms and cook five minutes. Season with salt and pepper and parsley. Cover bottom and sides of a 2-qt. Casserole with a coating of butter, then a thick layer of mashed potatoes. Fill hollow in the center with the onion and mushroom mikxture and cover with more mashed potatoes. Dot with butter. Bake in a 500° oven until browned, about fifteen minutes. 294 UNUSUAL VEGETABLE RECIPES FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Vegetable Casserole 4 tomatoes 2 large sticks celery 2 onions salt 2 potatoes pepper 3 carrots butter for topping Slice vegetables fine. Place in layers with salt and pepper in casserole. Put four pats of butter on top. Cook at 375° 1% hours. Canned tomatoes may be substituted. Serves 6-8. Clam and Eggplant Casserole 1 eggplant 1 egg, beaten % \b. Butter or margarine 1 can minced clams 1% c. Cracker crumbs seasonings to taste Pare, dice, and boil eggplant until soft. Drain, add butter, cracker crumbs, egg, and clams, including liquid. Season to taste, pour into buttered casserole, and bake in a moderate oven 30 to 45 minutes. Serves 6-8. M sshr elejsar F I orentine 1 Ib. Fresh mushrooms " c. Melted butter 2 pkgs. Frozen spinach 1 c. American Cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Salt garlic salt % ¢c. Chopped onions Wash and dry mushrooms. Slice off stems and slice mushrooms. Sauté caps and stems until brown. Line a shallow 1% inch deep casserole with defrosted, uncooked spinach which has been seasoned with salt, chopped onion, and melted butter. Sprinkle with % cup grated cheese. Arrange mushrooms over spinach. Season with a little garlic salt. Cover with remaining cheese. Bake for 20 minutes at 350° or until cheese is melted and browned. Serves 10. Spinach Pea Souffle 1 pkg. Frozen peas 4 egg yolks beaten 1 pkg. Frozen spinach 4 egg whites beaten stiff 1 pt. Thick white sauce Cook peas and spinach until tender and make into purée with blender or sieve. Add white sauce and egg yolk and mix. Fold in egg whites. Cook in double boiler for 1 hour, or in mold in oven (in pan of water) at 350°. Serves 10-12. Onion Souffle 1 ¢. Sliced or diced onion 1 c. Milk 3 tbsp. Butter 3 egg yolks, well beaten 3 tbsp. (or more) flour 3 egg whites, beaten stiff salt and pepper to taste Cook onion in butter until yellow. Blend in flour, add seasonings and milk and cook until thickened. Add egg yolks and cook slowly for 1 minute. Cool for ten minutes or more. Fold in egg whites and bake in unbuttered dish at 350° for about 30 minutes or until firm. Serves 6-8. 


 Band for Asparagus To the white of 1 hard-boiled egg finely chopped, add yolk forced through sieve, 1 tbsp. Each of pickle and pimento finely chopped, 1 tbsp. Parsley, finely chopped. Pour French dressing over the mixture. Put this as a band across spears of cooked asparagus before serving. White Sauce (Medium) 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Flour ' tsp. Salt % tsp. Pepper % tsp. Paprika 1 c. Milk Melt butter in top of double boiler over boiling water. Blend in flour, salt, pepper, and paprika. Add milk gradually. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened and smooth.