[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 248 | Special Feature | Oa Jacobs Cannon Appointed to the General Board Blanche | Thomas Miner]
Oa Jacobs Cannon Appointed to the General Board Blanche Thomas Miner Oa Jacobs Cannon HE General Board of the Relief Society selected a person of high caliber in their appointment of Oa Cannon to their membership on February 6, 1963. Oa Jacobs Cannon was born in West Weber Utah, a daughter of the late Henry Chariton Jacobs and Emma Jacobs Williams, who now resides in Cardston, Alberta, Canada. She was educated at Weber Academy in Ogden, Utah, and at Brigham Young University, where she met and married Charles P. Lloyd. His untimely death left her with three small children: Norma, now Mrs. Ross E. Dean of Salt Lake City; Charlene, Mrs. Jack Mulkey of Corona Del Mar, California; and Charles P. Lloyd of Long Beach, California. Charles completed a mission and taught several years in New Zealand. He is now in the bishopric in a Long Beach ward and complet- 248 ing his education toward a doctorate. For eight years Oa taught in the Commerce Department at Brigham Young University, until her marriage in 1936 to Paul Bennion Cannon of Salt Lake City. Two daughters were born to them—Lynne, a University of Utah graduate, now serving on a mission in Ontario, Canada; and Kathryn, a junior at the University of Utah. For this important and responsible position on the General Board of Relief Society Oa Cannon possesses excellent qualifications. She has a thorough knowledge of the gospel obtained through participation in many Church organizations, particularly the M. I. A. And the Relief Society. She has served as first counselor in the presidency of the Holladay Ward Relief Society, and as President of the Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and as literature class leader in Holladay Ward, and in Monument Park Ninth Ward. For the past three years she has been a most enthusiastic and energetic genealogical worker. Sister Cannon has a capacity for work and the judgment to work effectively. Her education has been a continuing one, with frequent enrollment in University of Utah classes. While her executive and leadership ability will be appreciated and admired, she will be loved for her cheerful personality, her genuine interest in people, and her sympathetic understanding of their problems. Lila Bean Walch Appointed to the General Board Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society USKIN has said, "The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with roses, but they fall behind her footsteps, not before."" How true this is of Sister Lila Bean Walch who was appointed to the Relief Society General Board February 6, 1963. She has left an influence for good whereever she has served, both in religious and civic affairs. Sister Walch was born in Lagrande, Oregon, the ninth child of Victor E. And Mary Hannah Bean, who were prominent in establishing and developing Union Stake in Eastern Oregon. Sister Walch was a member of the school board of LaGrande, chairman of Region Fifteen; and first vice-president of the Oregon State School Board Association. In 1958 she was named the outstanding woman of the year by the LaGrande Soroptimists. She married Charles Lloyd Walch in the Salt Lake Temple in 1928. They are the parents of four sons: Frank, principal of the school in Springfield, Oregon; Victor, on the technical staff of Internal Revenue in Washington, D. C.; David, assistant librarian at the Church College of Hawaii; and Willard, a missionary in the Brazilian South Mission. Brother Walch, formerly a bishop and _ stake president in Union Stake, is now patriarch in Bountiful South Stake. Sister Walch has held positions in both ward and stake in every auxiliary of the Church.