[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 258 | Fiction | A Load of Hay Ilene | H. Kingsbury]
Ilene H. Kingsbury NE could tell it was the season of the hay. Clumps of lucerne balanced along the center of the road where they had toppled from successive loads. A gentle wind wafted them about, pretending they were old sagebrush. A woman stood by her cedar post gate. As she had been there for quite some time, looking at the road, motionless, one was led to question such leisure. Certainly there must be something for her to do within her house. She would have been the first to admit that work awaited her 258 — six children brought that. However, for this morning all else must wait while she stood sentinel erect at her gate ready to make a decision of deep import, then give a command, and wait to see whether it would be obeyed. Every few minutes she glanced down the road in the direction of the outer fields which surrounded the town. She expected something of great importance to arrive from that direction. She was awaiting a load of hay and three boys on top of it. The same breeze that blew the lucerne about the ground fluttered the woman's apron. Its folds alternately were drawn to the gate post then swung about her long skirt and pressed against her knees to make her look momentarily as if she wore men's apparel. Such _ unladylike style was completely unthinkable, so she constantly tugged and smoothed the skirt and apron, which in length came quite correctly to the ankles. She was disquieted because the restless wind, as it seesawed at her apron, might well interfere with an important, pre-arranged signal which must be executed very shortly. She did not want a smoothing of her apron, which meant to turn the wagon in at the home gate, to interfere with an actual waving of the apron, which permitted the boys to by-pass their property and drive on to the bishop's tithing barn. Formerly she had tried shouting her order from her post at the gate to the top of the hayrack, but the wind, the distance, and the noise of horses and wheels had prevented the boys hearing her correctly. 'This necessitated coming to a complete stop, which was outruled by the boys as quite unnecessary, especially as their object was purely speed. The apron signal had been the solution to the problem. Only at the last instant would she know which motion to make, and she didn't want a stiff breeze or three immature boys to misinterpret her decision. To divert her mind from an otherwise perplexing problem, she glanced here and there — a sort of Stationary tour of inspection. One object she observed. It was a torn A LOAD OF HAY piece of yellow-orange cloth nailed to her gatepost. Immediately her mind reverted to an incident of recent occurrence and immense value. The cloth and the incident were, in part, to determine her signal, as we shall see. We have called this part of her saga Four Brass Buttons. NDS of the stout, woven selvage of the yellow cloth fluttered in the wind and still proclaimed a terrifying message. There was no time now to go into the house to get a claw hammer and pry off the stick to which it had been attached. So she let the shredded threads remain as they had for these several weeks. This colored cloth had been a flag. Not a flag of liberty, but one of restraint and quarantine. Its color, a blend of saffron, mustard, and sunflower had cried to the valley that within the household was a deathdealing disease of some sort — typhoid, diphtheria, whooping cough, or measles. 'This time it had announced the fever of diphtheria. The woman was disturbed by the fact that the sexton of the town put up the quarantine flags. 'The sense of doom he created had been known to send patients into a state of depression. The woman wondered why the grave digger had to have two duties to perform, each so sad and final. Maybe, if she talked to the bishop, he would do something about the unhappy situation. Usually, the epidemic felled all members of a family. As the contagion spread, so did terror and uncertainty. Helplessness and sorrow were burdens in almost every family. If outside help was needed, it was only forthcoming from some daring 


 soul who had had the disease and had thereby gained immunity. Such a person was willing to step through the yellow flag barrier and work like a horse, as they said, to nurse the sick, wash on the board, ease the suffering, sit up with the dying, lay away the dead, and comfort the living. It was just such an individual who had ignored the banner on the stick and entered the woman's home at dawn sometime around the second day of the flag. The vigil with the sick was marked off in days of the flag. The time stretched on and on until the last victim was pronounced cured. But the arduous labor continued on through a fumigation period in which a sort of cleansing of the spirit, as well of material objects, took place. Shallow dishes filled with sulphur were set in each room to burn and fume and permeate every surface and crack. HE flag reminded the woman of the person who had come to serve and save, as they aptly called the task. The bony, angular, mannish sort of woman who strode to their door each morning was not a resident of the town in the first place. She lived in the next settlement four miles to the southwest and had walked every step of the way. News traveled fast even in those days. When this woman, who was Aunt Clarissa to everyone but only a blood relation to a few, heard there was a family without any help, she appointed herself to take care of them. And why did she walk? You might ask. For the simple fact that she did not own a cart to ride in, or a 260 horse to draw it. Her ever-ready form of transportation was that oldfashioned one of walking called "Shank's Ponies." When _ asked whether it seemed very far, those four miles each way, she replied, "I walked two thousand miles to get to the Rocky Mountains. Now I am here, what is the distance between two towns?" She shrugged off a routine which meant stemming the fever of seven brows. She kept a_ perpetually steaming pot of graham gruel on the back of the stove. She emptied slop buckets a dozen times a day. She pealed, sliced, and pounded, and cooked every bite of food that was consumed by the sick and convalescing. She carried in from a woodpile at the rear of the house every stove length that was burned to cook that precious nourishment. On the thirty-first day of the flag there appeared a finality about each task performed by Aunt Clarissa. The children knew that tomorrow morning she would not enter the door, fold her quilted cape, place it in the deep window sill, and then command the very air they breathed. This day was a little sorrowful. Each patient had felt her steadying hand and accepted a strength from her which had persuaded them all to gain their legs again. The two girls cried while thanking her. The littlest boy tried copying his big brothers by bragging that now they would care for their mother and the girls and each other; however, he did a rather pathetic job of it. Upon realizing his failure, he tugged at his mother's apron and soon became so submerged and entangled in its folds that everyone laughed at him. This hilarity appeared in such contrast to the rest of the leave-taking that one wondered if proper gratitude had been expressed. As verbal wages were all the thanks this good woman was to receive, the mood should have been one of great dignity, some believed. OWEVER, at the last moment, as Aunt Clarissa had her hand on the doorknob in a repeated attempt to leave, another delay presented itself. 'The mother felt as if some tangible recompense was demanded. Perhaps in future days she could "pay in kind," that is, in service, or hot bread, or fresh eggs — but for now nothing like that was possible. At that moment an idea resembling a sort of promissory note came to her mind. She quickly stepped from the room and entered a triangular closet which was built under a stairway. With a sharp pull she managed to dislodge a small trunk from between rolls of winter bedding. She eased it to the floor, lifted the lid, and withdrew a greenish black broadcloth coat. This was a double-breasted style with great metal buttons showing through vast slashes of buttonholes. She thought, how they gleam in this half light under the stairs! She hastily jerked off one of the buttons, then another, then two more. Four in all. With a finality most pronounced, she folded the coat, placed it back where it belonged, shut the lid, pushed the trunk where it had reposed, then went back quickly to say the last farewell. The two women embraced; they kissed each other on the cheek. They murmured a quiet sentence or two. A LOAD OF HAY The children wondered what the words were, but could only guess. As the two women grasped hands, Clarissa felt that several small objects had been transferred to her fingers. She looked down, adjusted her hand to the light of the doorway. She smiled as she saw a very precious gift cupped therein. The mother said simply, "This is all the thanks I have, Clarissa. Perhaps you can use these buttons from an old Welsh soldier's coat." In a moment Clarissa started toward the gate. Her offering of service had been accepted. For her vigilance she had received four brass buttons. Clatter, a rumble of wheels aroused the mother from her contemplation of the symbol of quarantine and from the remembrance of beneficence so great it brought her to tears. Far down toward the fields she could first hear, then identify the hayrack, the horses steadily pulling it; and, as it neared, her three sons atop the load of hay. At that moment they spied her. All three let out a great cheer. The one who drove the horses snapped the reins on their backs and shouted so as to move the red hills, "Run Pockets, run Boots! On to the fire!" In two lengths the spirited animals and the exultant boys entered a race which they called "jockeying for tenth position." All drivers, on other courses, hoped to settle for first place, but this race was different from any other in all the world. If the load was not judged perfect by their mother, then it was not a chase at all, but a routine delivery. But if 


 ° she waved her apron, as permission to drive right on through town to the tithing barn, then it became a flight, a dash! The woman watched them now, bearing down on her with quite frightening speed. She was not sure whether it was seemly to race to the tithing barn. Her feeling was that it should be, rather, a procession, a decorus movement accompanied by a fife or a flute, or even a trumpet. But this careening, precarious ride in a spirit of sport and competition, as if going to a charivari! This almost Shocked her. She caught her thoughts. Youth and age may gain the same end by diverse means. Do not grumble or nag, she told herself. Three of her four boys were on top of that load. He who "held the leather" was Hebe, the middle in age. At eighteen, he was grandly built, handsome, taller than the rest — more stately English than squat Welsh. How she feared for that one. He was so irrepressible and vibrant that he seemed to be seeking more elbow room than is allotted to one human being. In his exuberance to be an independent individual he often said, too loudly, "Give a horse his head!" This unreined, unchecked son would not always stay in the harness at home, She knew that. He strained at life. She only prayed that when he went out in the great, wonderful world that he would come back the man she prayed him to be, and the one he imagined he could be. He needed to stay home a little longer. George, a patriarchal nineteen, sat on the near side, front corner of the load. He maintained a steady seat by locking his leg around the rack 262 stake. In that position he controlled the situation. That is, he was not in the driver's seat, but just far enough away not to be a hindrance to Hebe, but near enough for emergency. That boy, George, was old as the hills when he was a baby, his mother remembered. His oldness had nothing to do with his few years on earth. It was as if a traditional maturity was placed upon him the day he was born. He maintained that he grew up in the pre-existence and didn't have to bother with it in this life. Perhaps he was right, his mother thought. One knew the place he was walking in was the good place. But if he had been an oldster he had given joy. With never a lesson in his life, how that boy could play the organ! In stocking feet, to rest them, he said, he pumped the treadles and brought out such melodies that his mother often sat down and cried, just to hear him. Seventeen-year-old Dave sat on the back of the wagon. Let the others tend to the business of getting the hay to the barn, he thought, right now I shall think to myself. He looked high to the crimson hills, then far out in the valley where the Little Salt Lake appeared as a silver ribbon in its widening shore of crystalline salt. This country was his mother's homestead, he knew that, but could it be that in a few years he would follow Hebe out in the world, instead of working with George in this little spot? His mother could have voiced his every thought, although at this moment she could see only the back of his head. Torn, that was Dave. The company he kept just better be good, she resolved. And it was good! His mother saw to that! She was not going to have him turning a new leaf in repentance and contrite spirit. He was not to fluctuate or deviate. She would help him to plant his feet in the good path; there he would walk; there he would beckon others, there they would follow. Even out in the world he would be not of it. HIS woman had a conviction about an offering. For instance, it was the quality of the tithing that mattered — the quantity had been prescribed long ago. Israel had heard about it for nearly four thousand years. By now it was no affair of this homesteader how much she should give; it was what kind of that much that concerned her. It reminded one of a medical formula. The amount was determined, but the essence, the ultimate substance had not been seriously or finally compounded. Her offering, then, had to represent the first fruits. In her case the product was a load of hay. Therefore, she reasoned, a _ close watch must be held over the season's harvest, that only the best of each ten loads would move from the fields past her town lot nght on to A LOAD OF HAY the tithing barn. There was also this matter of Clarissa and the fourmile walk each way every day end on end to be acknowledged before the Lord. This farm woman had a peculiar choice of words. She called this quantity her tenth; for who can always correctly spell tithe? Besides, she explained, tithe can mean just a little bit; but everyone can count on their fingers! It just became easier to figure and spell and say one tenth. So much for quibbling over a little word. Her practiced eye judged the oncoming load. It bulged at the stake poles. 'The color was good. 'The aroma of drying purple blossoms was a perfume of promise. 'This was the tenth. It could be described with pride in the bishop's barn book. At the instant Pockets and Boots came alongside the gate, the boys were prepared for two things: make a dash for it, or pull to a more sedate pace. 'They sized up the situation instantly, accurately. With a whoop and a holler they began to eat the road. Hooves dug in the dust, wheels whirled, boys opened their mouths and just plain yelled! The mother left the gate and went into her house.