GENEVA, COMO AND TAHOE.
	LAKE GENEVA, or Lake Leman of the
Romans. A celebrated lake of Switzerland
extending in the form of a crescent between
that country and Savoy, occupies a part of
the valley which separates the snowy Alps
from the Jura (joo ra) mountains, forty-five
miles long, with a varying width of be-
tween one to ten miles; it lies 1226 ft.
above sea level and is as many deep, the
color of its waters is deep blue varying to
baby blue and are of remarkable transpar-
ency, it is traversed by the Rhone.
	While at Geneva I stood upon the bridge
Mont Blanc where the Arve and the Rhone
emerged from the lake a pure, transparent
stream. As the rivers come washing down

[Column 2]
the Alps the waters are muddy, the Arve
empties into the Rhone which discharges
its muddy waters into the lake, and runs a
long way ere it mingles with the blue
waters. Longfellow compares this to
Purity and Sin. In 1823 steam navigation
was introduced upon its waters.
	Going aboard the steamer we found
many travelers, it was during the season, a
perfect day the better to enjoy the grandeur
of its scenery and the loveliness of its
shores. The south and west banks have
beautiful towns and picturesque villas, the
abodes of wealth.
	The house occupied by Byron is pointed
out at Coppet, the Chateau of Neckar and
his daughter Madame de’ Stael, at Ferney
the residence of Voltair. We stopped at
Vevey and “Clarens, sweet Clarens, birth-
place of love,” of which Byron wrote. All
was music and poetry. Among the pas-
sengers one while gazing at the snowy
Alps would quote:

	’Thee, Leman's Lake, once more I trace,
	Like Dian’s crescent far beneath,
As beautiful as Pean’s face!
	Pride of the land that gave me birth!
All that thy waves reflect I love,
	Where heaven itself brought down to earth,
Looks fairer than above.”

Then another would quote:

“It is the hush of night and all between
	Thy margin and the mountains, dusk yet clear,
Mellowed and mingling, yet distinctly seen.
	Save darken’d Jura, whose capp’d heights ap-
		pear,
	Precipitously steep; and drawing near,
There breathes a living fragrance, from the
		shore,
	Of flowers yet fresh with childhood, on the ear,
Drops the light drip of the suspended oar,
	Or chirps the grasshopper one good-night carol
		more.”

Or from the Prisoner of Chillon, or from
Rosseau’s Catastrophe of his Heloise, as
their thoughts differed.
	Arriving at the landing of Villeneuve we
are at the head of the lake, between the
Jura and Savoy Alps, the latter include
Mt. Blanc. We watched the glorious sun
set which left a golden path on the lake,
while Castle and Mountains were mirrored
on the surface. Soon the landscape was all
in shadow, leaving delightful memories.
LAKE OF COMO.
	A lake of Lombardy situated at the foot of
the Alps, thirty-five miles long with a vary-
ing breadth of from one to three miles. It
it an expansion of the river Adda, 698 feet
above the sea, 1,925 feet deep, its waters
turquoise blue; it is justly celebrated for
the scenery of its shores, covered with
elegant villas and beautiful gardens.
	From the town of Como, birthplace of
Pliny the younger, we took steamer to
Menaggio, then a boat, going opposite the
fashionable resort, to a solid granite wall
built up out of the water, with water gates,
supplied with steps for embarkation. We
entered the beautiful chateau belonging to
a nobleman; he rented it just as it was,
with cut-glass, silver, dainty china and the
privilege of roaming around the gardens,
and olive, lemon, orange and citron trees,
which no doubt Bulwer describes in “A
deep vale, shut out by Alpine hills from
the rude world, near a clear lake margined
by fruits of gold and whispering myrtles.”
Turn where we would in these enchanting

[Column 3]
grounds, there was something in this beauti-
ful drama that constantly recurred to our
memory, so quotations were heard on all
sides.
	The mountains rise abruptly from the
waters edge, their sides covered with ver-
dure, in many places terraced and planted
with grapes, while perched upon a pinnacle
a thousand feet above you are churches and
monasteries, and in the distance snowy
Alps. Everything was rose color; the
air was perfumed, we heard the murmurs
of low fountains, the music from flutes,
guitars and sweet strains from the band at
Managgio. The palace lifting to eternal
Heaven its marble walls, the softest skies.
We arranged for a moon; God granted fair
weather. While we sailed all night upon
the blue waters we judged them fairer than
day.
LAKE TAHOE.
	It was just sundown when the stage
coach turned a bend in the road and we
came to the very edge of the lake, ensconced
amid the mountains at an altitude of 6,225
feet above sea level on the borders of
Nevada and California in the Sierra Nevada
mountains, its length 22½ miles, greatest
width 13 miles, its depth 1,506 feet, its
waters not blue but wonderfully clear,
looking like a sheet of glass, surrounded
like a wall by the mountains while the
beautiful pines peeped up through the
snow. One German exclaimed “Tahoe,
a jewel with an emerald setting,” while an
old Jew sitting by him said, “Yes a dia-
mond of purest ray.”
	The mountains and pines with Heaven
itself were reflected in its transparent
depths; it was sublimely beautiful, restful.
I said to my father, I am not so weary now.
	So between that loveliest of the Italian
lakes, Como, and our beautiful American
gem, there is no comparison.
						KIM.


SIXTY years ago women could not vote
anywhere. In 1845 Kuntucky gave school
suffrage to widows, In 1861, Kansas gave
it to all women. In 1869 England gave
municipal suffrage to single women and
widows, and Wyoming gave full suffrage
to all women. School suffrage was granted
in 1875 by Michigan and Minnesota, in
1876 by Colorado, in 1878 by New Hamp-
shire and Oregon, in 1879 by Massachu-
setts, in 1880 by New York and Vermont.
In 1881 municipal suffrage was extended to
the single women and widows of Scotland.
Nebraska gave school suffrage in 1883 and,
Wisconsin in 1885. In 1886 school suffrage
was given in Washington, and municipal
suffrage to single women and widows in
New Brunswick and Ontario. In 1887
municipal suffrage was extended to all wo-
men in Kansas, and school suffrage in
North and South Dakota, Montana, Ari-
zona and New Jersey. In 1891 school suf-
frage was granted in Illinois. In 1892,
municipal suffrage was extended to single
women and widows in the Province of
Quebec. In 1893 school suffrage was
granted in Connecticutt, and full suffrage
in Colorado and New Zealand. In 1894
school suffrage was granted in Ohio, a
limited municipal suffrage in Iowa, and
parish and district suffrage in England to
women both married and single. In 1895
full suffrage was granted in South Austra-
lia to women both married and single.
In 1896 full suffrage was granted to wo-
men in Utah and Idaho.              Ex.


