TO THE MEMORY OF GRANDMA
FREE.

	As the sun arose so beautiful and calm
one summer’s morning in the present cen-
tury, it brought into this world one noble
spirit, who has lived long and well, and
one too who has recently been called
“home ” to meet a host of friends, clasp
hands with noble ancestry, and wear the
crown of wife, mother, sister and compan-
on among those gone before. This time
we speak of Sister Sarah Hyder Free.
“Grandma,” as we familiarly called her,
was born of English parentage, her father
Wm. Jarrold being an honored officer in
the Duke of York’s regiment, located at
Summer Hill, Ireland in the year eighteen
hundred. It was here his babe was born
on July 20th of that year but he soon re-
turned to Cambridge with his family and
here Grandma’s earlier days were spent.
	At the age of twenty-four she married
Richard H. Hyder, but was left a widow
with six children in 1838. She was the
second person to embrace the Gospel in
Cambridge. With her three surviving
daughters she set sail for Salt Lake City in
March, 1851, and reached her destination in
October of the same year. Many of the
early trials of crossing the plains with ox
teams she unmurmuringly endured. Her
daughters married as a result of which
twenty-seven grand-children and sixty-six
great grand-children have honored her
name.
	Just think, dear reader, there are but
few indeed living today who can tell of the
great war of 1812, but ’t is only a short
time ago that some incidents of it could
have been told by our departed one.
Grandma often said, “I shall live to see
every son-in-law of mine laid peacefully
to rest.” This was fulfilled completely,
Brother Edward W. Davis being the last
one to complete that assertion. As the
light breeze of 1851 wafted Grandma’s
sailing vessel from the old world to the
new, after she had braved every peril and
finally landed her cargo on a brighter shore
—so has it been with the ships of Christ in
her case. She boarded that ship in the
bloom of womanhood, stood by it when
clouds of destruction arose and threatened
its safety, maintained her integrity to it
through summer hours and winter’s blasts
unto her very last moment. Truly all who
knew her can say, “she has fought the good
fight, she has kept the faith,” she has en-
dured faithfully to the end in the Truth,
and there are treasures in Heaven awaiting
her coming to claim them; which she has
done, having passed peacefully away on
the 18th ult. She shall awake again and
in glory dwell when “the dead in Christ
shall live.”			—S. E. D.


