THE PIONEER KINDERGARTEN.

	It will no doubt be gratifying to some
of our readers, and especially those inter-
ested in Kindergarten work and in the
Primary Association, to know of the first
movement of this kind made in Utah.
	From Sister Camilla C. Cobb of this
city we have been able to glean a few facts
about her early work, although she is al-
most too modest to have them given at all,
but we consider it her just due, as she was
the pioneer in this beautiful work now
growing in favor everywhere as its real
merits are becoming known. It is the
earnest wish of the writer and of many
others who are at the present time associated
in this work, that our people should com-
prehend more fully the great advantages of
this fundamental training of the children.
	Sister Cobb informs us that it was in the
summer of 1874 that she went East to visit
relatives, and while there and some little
time before returning, she was attracted by
notices in the papers to the Kindergarten
under the management of Dr. Adolph
Douai, a renowned German educator.
	Having received such training herself in
her early childhood in her native place,
the City of Dresden, Germany, and being
most interested in that particular method of
training little children, she concluded to go
and see for herself the manner in which
[Column 2]
the Kindergartens were conducted in
America. Consequently she went from
New York City and took up her abode in
New Jersey where this famous school was
established; called on the venerable old Dr.
and told him she would like to see and
understand something of the workings of
the American Kindergartens, explaining,
however, that she would not have time to
remain long enough to enable her to take
an entire course of training. She also told
the Dr. of her former experience in the
Kindergarten.
	Dr. Douai told her the best way of doing
what she desired with only limited time,
was to go right into the Kindergarten and
take hold with the teachers (who, by the
way, were his own daughters) and instruct 
with what knowledge she had and the ex-
perience she would gain by observing the
other teachers.
	Sister Cobb followed the Dr’s, advice
and being a German herself, as both Eng-
lish and German were taught, it was not
so difficult a task as one would suppose;
her improvement was rapid, and she saw
many things that to her mind always fruit-
ful in ideas, might be added to and improv-
ed. Sister Cobb says, “I need not say
that I enjoyed myself there and felt well re-
paid for the time so profitably spent and the
additional knowledge gained; while there
I was impressed with the grandeur of the
work and began to see Froebel’s grand
ideas were only in part understood, but felt 
that the time would come when justice
would be done to this great educator of
childhood.
	“During my stay in the Kindergarten, I
was surprised with a visit from John W.
Young Esq., who was so delighted with 
what he saw there and so impressed with
the possibility of what might be done in
our far Western home, that he asked me if
I were willing to start a school of this kind
on my return home to Salt Lake City,
promising to aid me all he could; being full
of the spirit of the work I readily assented.”
	Sister Cobb says, and truly "all begin-
nings are difficult and as this system of
teaching was entirely new and unknown to
the people here, I had my ardor somewhat
dampened in trying to establish my Kinder-
garten. However, I concluded to make an
effort if even in a small way, and so with
the children of John W. Young, my own
and some others, I opened the first Kinder-
garten in Utah in the vestry of President
Brigham Young’s old schoolhouse inside
the Eagle Gate. Through the kindness of
Mr. Young the room was suitably and
handsomely furnished. I had brought
some material home with me from the East,
and some I found here, and with a little
ingenuity turned many things not especially
intended for this purpose to splendid ac-
count. I was filled with love of my work,
and while we had not arrived at the excel-
lence that we have since attained to, we
claim to have done a good work.
	“ The same spirit that inspired Froebel
the great master was in our school, and a
happier band of little children I think
would have been hard to find. I also
taught the German language through ob-
ject lessons, and it was surprising to see
how rapidly the little ones gained a knowl-
edge of this language, and it is not long
since I heard a mother, formerly a pupil of
my school, sing to her own babe the little
German songs of the pioneer Kindergarten
of 1874.”
[Column 3]
	Sister Cobb did not give these facts with
a view of our using them in this way, but
it is only proper that she should
have the credit of the work, she
undertook under such adverse circumstan-
ces, and that she so faithfully performed
until other duties and changes came, that
made it impossible for her to continue in
this particular line of teaching.


