AN ANTEDELUVIAN DIARY.

	THE following “fragments of an antede-
luvian diary,” from an old number of an
English work entitled the “Spirit and Man-
ners of the Age,” may be interesting to
the numerous readers of your valuable
publication.
				Yours, L. M. H.

	Today I am a hundred years old. Ah
me! How blissful are the feelings of boy-
hood! My senses are as acute as the tree
with the shrinking leaf. My blood bounds
through my veins as the river pours
through the valley, rejoicing in its strength
Life lies before me like another plain of
Shinar—vast, unoccupied, inviting,—I will
fill it with achievements and pleasures!
In about sixty years it will be time to think
of marrying; my kinswomen Zillah, will
by that time have emerged from girlhood;
she already gives promise of comeliness and
discretion. Twenty years hence I will pay
a visit to her parents, that I may see how
she has grown. Meanwhile I will build a
city to receive her. A city to do her honor
when she becomes my wife.

	Nearly three centuries have passed since
my marriage. Can it be true? It seems
but yesterday since I sported like a young
antelope around my father’s tent, or, climb-
ing the dark cedars, nestled like a bird
among the thick boughs beneath which my
mother laid me to sleep—and now I am a
man in authority as well as in the prime of
life. I lead out my trained servants, and
sit head of the council. Jazed, my young
est born, a lovely babe of thirty summers,
that gave promise of long life, is dead, but
I have six goodly sons remaining, and my
five daughters are fair and beautiful as their
mother when I first met her in the Acacia
grove, where now stands one of my watch-
towers. They are the pride of the plain no
less from their requirements than their
beauty. No damsel carries the picture
from the fountain with the grace of Adah;
none can dry the summer fruits like Azu-
bah; none can fashion a robe like Mileah;
none sing and play the harp like Hajar,
nor spin and weave like our light-winged

[Column 2]
Zenia. Mahaleel admires them. He is
rich and powerful—he shall take his choice
of all for his wife. 

	My eight hundredth birthday! And
now I feel the approach of age and infirm-
ity. My head has become white as the
blossoms of the almond tree. I am con-
strained to use a staff when I journey; the
stars look less bright than formerly; the
flowers smell less odorous. I have laid
Zillah my beloved in the tomb of the rock.
Mileah is the wife of Mahaleel and all are
gone to their own dwellings. My sons
take my place in the council and in the
field,—all is changed. The long future has
become the short past. The earth is full
of violence; the ancient and the honorable
are sinking beneath the young and the
vicious. The giants stalk through the
length and breadth of the land, where once
dwelt a quiet people; all now is changed.
The beasts of the field and the monsters of
the deep growl with unwonted fury; tradi-
tions, visions and threatenings are abroad.
What fearful doom hangs over this fair
world, I know not: it is enough that I am
leaving it; yet another five or eight score
years, and the tale will be told, completed.
But have I in very deed trod this earth
nearly a thousand years? It is false; I am
yet a boy. I have had dreams—aye long,
long, busy dreams, of buying and selling,
and of giving in marriage; of building and
planting; feasting and warring, sorrowing
and rejoicing; loving and hating; but it is
false to call it life. Go to—it has been a
vision of the night and now that I am
awake, I will forget it.
	“Lamech, my son, how long is it since
we planted the garden of oaks beside the
river? Was it yesterday?” “My father
dost thou sport? These oaks cast a broad
shadow when my sister Zenia carried me
beneath them in her arms and wove me
chaplets of their leaves.” Thou art right
my son; and I am growing old. Lead me
to my mother’s tomb and there leave me to
meditate. What am I the better for my
past length of being? Where will be its
records when I am gone? They are yonder
—on all sides; will those massive towers
fall? Will those golden plains become
desolate? Will the children that call me
father forget? The seers utter dark say-
ings upon their harps when they sing of
the future. They say our descendants shall
be of dwindled stature, that the years of
their lives shall be contracted to the span of
our childhood;—but what is that future to
me? I have listened to the tales of paradise
—nay, in the blue distance I have seen the
dark tops of the cedars. I have heard the
solemn melodies of Jubal when he sat on
the seashore, and the sound of the wave
mingled with his harping. I have seen
angels the visitants of mankind to earth.
Yea, I have seen an end of all perfection
here, what is the future to me?


MISS ADA WOODS, a well known young
London actress, has joined the Salvation
Army.


