THE RESOLUTIONS.
	RESOLVED, That the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is and will
continue to be non-partisan, and appeals to
men of all parties to secure suffrage for wo-
men: 
	RESOLVED. That we rejoice in the estab-
lishment during the past year of full wo-
man suffrage by the States of Utah and
Idaho making with Wyoming and Colorado,
four free states for women.


RESOLVED, That the magnificent vote in
California (110,000 in favor of woman suf-
frage to 117,000 opposed) being a majority
of the votes of the entire State outside of
San Francisco and Oakland, show that the
heart and conscience of the people are with
us, and we recommend the immediate re-
submission of the question:
	RESOLVED, That we will continue to
petition Congress to protect women citizens
in their right to vote by a sixteenth consti-
tutional amendment and every other form
of appropriate legislation.
	RESOLVED, That we urge each State soci-
ety to memorialize its legislature at every
session for full legal and political equality
for women in every form and to secure
hearings in its behalf.
	RESOLVED, That as representatives of
the women of America, we are opposed
to the barbarism of war: we declare our
hearty approval of the treaty of arbitration
between the United States and Great
Britain, and we respectfully call upon our
senators to ratify the same.
	RESOLVED, That we thank Mr. Washing-
ton Duke, of Durham, N. C., and cordially
appreciate the gift of $100,000 to Trinity
college of that State on condition that
women shall receive the equal advantages
with men. 
	RESOLVED, Whereas it is stated that
Miss Stahlnacker alone has passed the civil
service examination for translator of mod-
ern languages in the office of the United
States Adjutant General, which requires
ability to speak and write six modern
languages, and to translate one to the other;
and
	Whereas, the Adjutant General refuses to
appoint her solely because she is a man,
therefore, be it
	RESOLVED, That we respectfully petition
the national executive to enforce the princi-
ple of civil service reform in application to
her appointment;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the Iowa
Senate for their courtesy in inviting the
Convention to present its claim before that
honorable body;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the people
of Des Moines for their generous hospitality
to the delegates in attendance on this
convention; to the newspapers of the city
for their full and fair report, and to the rail-
roads of the country for reduced rates; to
Frank A. Walden for the use of a type-
writer; to the Kimball Piano Co. for the
use of a piano.


