BEAVER STAKE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	MINUTES of Conference of Beaver Stake
Relief Society held in the Society Hall,
Beaver City, Utah, March 5, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m., Counselor
S. M. Dell presiding.
	Present of the brethren, Pres’t. C. D.
White and counselors, M. L. Shepherd and
J. F. Tolton, Bishop Geo. Mumford and
counselors, S. O. White, Patriarch Daniel
Tyler and others.
	Singing “And are we yet alive;” prayer
by Counselor M. L. Shepherd; singing “O
God our help in ages past;” minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
	Counselor S. M. Dell made a few open-
ing remarks, felt glad to see the sisters out
to conference. President Jane W. Bickley
reported the Beaver Relief Society in good
condition.
	President White felt pleased to meet in
conference with the sisters. “Bishops
appreciate the help they receive from the
Relief Society and the people ought to be-
cause they are a great blessing to all classes.
They are doing a good work and ought to
be sustained.” Spoke at some length on
the grain question, very much regretted
the accident to Sister Howd, felt satisfied
the Lord was pleased with her faithful
labors and would reward her for them.
	Statistical and financial reports of wards
and Stake were read. Counselor M. L.
Shepherd thought the sisters had ac-
complished a great amount of good. As
the people of the Lord we need to do every-
thing to the best possible advantage, also
live in peace with each other, without
jealousies and evil speaking, thus shall we
receive the blessings of our heavenly
Father.
	Sister Tyler thought the instructions we
had received excellent. All her labors had
been done willingly and cheerfully. “The
Prophet Joseph turned the key for women
and they are taking their place in the
world. May we all be earnest and faithful
in our labors.”
	Patriarch D. Tyler felt thankful that he
could hear and enjoy the most that was
said. The work the sisters have done in the
past speaks for them and testifies of their
faithful labors, and they will receive a
great reward.
	President C. D. White said they had
selected Sister R. W. Tyler for Stake presi-


dent, spoke very highly of her past labors,
said she is well qualified for the position. 
	The following officers were then present-
ed and unanimously sustained: Mrs. Ruth
W. Tyler President; Mrs. Mary A. White
First Counselor; Mrs. Cedarena C. Shep-
herd Second Counselor; Alice M. T. Tan-
ner Secretary.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice:” benediction by
Counselor J. F. Tolton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Meeting con-
vened at 2 o’clock p.m., President R. W.
Tyler presiding. Prayer by Elder John
Griffiths; singing “O say what is truth.”
President Martha Walker of Minersville,
Sister Mary A. Jones of Adamsville and
President Mary Morris of Greenville re-
ported their branches of the Society in good
condition and working unitedly. Each
Society had change of officers at re-election
in February. Singing “We thank Thee
O God for a prophet.” Elder Watkin
Reese of Adamsville encouraged the sis-
ters in their good work. “We will meet
the records we make here when we pass
beyond the vale.”’
	Bishop Mumford was very much pleased
in viewing our granray. Spoke of the im-
portance of storing grain, spoke on economy
and the necessity of teaching our children
this principle.
	Elder John Briggs spoke in regard to the
training of our children. Counselor M. A.
White spoke on the same subject and gave
mothers excellent advice on the course to
pursue with our children. Prof. W. G.
Bickley said “We have had a feast this
afternoon.” Spoke of the greatness of the
gospel work and its spread, also spoke
encouragingly of the labors of the Relief
Society.
	President R. W. Tyler said that although
our labors have been great while building,
we have endeavored to see that none suffer-
ed. Encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT.
	President C. D. White said every mother
in Israel should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety; teach our daughters to be virtuous and
throw a shield around our sons and daugh-
ters, also teach them obedience to the Priest-
hood of their parents, and not let them hear
us find fault with the authorities.
	Presidents J. W. Bickley and R. W.
Tyler spoke in regard to the grain. Meet-
ing adjourned for six months. Singing
"Lord dismiss us;” benediction by Bishop
George Mumford.
		R. W. TYLER, Pres’t.
