		SARAH A. PITCHFORTH.

	DIED at the family residence in Nephi, Juab
Co., Utah, Feb. 24th, 1897, after a short illness of
bronchitis, Sister Sarah A. Pitchforth, beloved
wife of the late Samuel Pitchforth. She was
born Jan 13, 1829 at Swinton, Yorkshire, England,
was the daughter of John and Esther Golds-
brough, was at the time of her death sixty-seven
years, eight months and ten days old. She was
baptized as a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints Sep. 5. 1849, left her
home on Jan. 1, 1850 and journeyed towards the
home of the Saints, arriving at Salt Lake City
Oct. 1, of the same year. She came in a sailing
vessel and crossed the plains in the old, slow,
tedious way, was married to the late Samuel
Pitchforth Dec. 20, 1851 and was the mother of
twelve children, six of whom have preceded her
to the great beyond. She thus leaves six child-
ren, twenty-two grand-children and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She moved to Nephi with the family in 1852,
and has resided there ever since. She passed
through a great many trials and privations inci-
dent to the early settling of these valleys, but was
never heard to murmur or complain, but on the
contrary always had words of comfort and sym-
pathy to offer to those with whom she met. She
was a loving and affectionate wife mother and
friend.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society and
faithfully discharged her duties in that capacity
for a number of years prior to her death.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake
Tabernacle, on Feb. 27, 1897.
	Appropriate remarks were made by Apostle
Teasdale, Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Wm.
Paxman and her Bishop.
	A large cortege followed the remains to the
cemetery where all that was earthly of our much
loved friend and sister was laid in the tomb by
the side of her departed husband and children.

	Dear sister, how we mourn our loss
	    Thou wert faithful, kind and true;
	And nobly bore your daily cross,
	     As He who sent desired you to.
	Dear Sister Sarah Ann has gone to rest,
	     She was prized by all who knew her worth;
	Her mission was to comfort and to bless,
	     While God saw fit to lend her to this earth
	She labored with untiring zeal
	     Nor deemed her cross too hard to bear;
	’Till God in mercy called her home
	     And a glorious crown awaits her there,

[Column 3]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF
