	MADAME VON FINKLESTIEN MOUNT-
FORD has been giving her unique enter-
tainment, Living pictures of the Holy land
under the auspices of the Brigham Academy
in several of the larger towns in the State,
both North and South of Salt Lake City.
Madame Mountford will give one of her
series of lectures in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Tuesday evening, April 6th.
	MISS A. M. BEECHER of New York
City is at the Manitou, and is to remain
here for a few weeks longer. Miss Beecher
is the cousin of the Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher, and is in many respects very like
her celebrated cousin. She is a very enter-
taining speaker and in conversation very
agreeable and decidedly humorous and
attractive. The lady has been entertained
by most of the Woman’s Clubs in the city,
and has given what she calls her “drawing
room talks,” and all who have heard ex-
press themselves as being delighted with
her manner of dealing with the live ques-
tions of the day. Miss Beecher will give a
series of three lectures under the auspices
of the Ladies Literary Club of this city.
	THE terrible destruction by the floods on
account of the Mississippi river overflowing,
breaking the levees and destroying property
and causing families to flee for the preserva-
tion of life, cannot fail to be a warning to
all those who believe in the predictions of
prophets, seers and revelators concerning
the calamities of the Latter days. Fires,
floods, cyclones, wars, and rumors of wars,
must cause an awakening to all those who
have hearts “to feel another’s woe.” In-
deed even now the dispatches bring daily
accounts of these things, and of famine and
pestilence, that one is amazed in contem-
plating and cannot but wonder what the
near future will bring.
	THE Woman’s Co-op Store on First
South St., just West of Main St. in the
Nauvoo Building, has been well supplied of
late with new goods, and is in the hands of
women accustomed to business in the city
of London, England, Mrs. Francis and her
daughter. Hats and bonnets in great
variety, of good material and in the latest
styles, are also reasonable in price. Dress-
making is carried on in the establishment
and good satisfaction guaranteed. A
speciality is made of burial clothing of the
finest quality, or prices to suit the purchas-
ers. Fancy goods and also useful articles


for ladies wear and also for fancy work and
embroidery etc. The store is carefully fit-
ted up and the ladies who have interested
themselves in maintaining it solicit the
patronage of the public and are desirous of 
giving satisfaction. As it is the only wo- 
man’s store of the kind in the city it should
be well patronized.


