			GRANTSVILLE, Utah,
					March 11, 1897.
Dear Aunt Em:
	Not having been informed just who
would be my companion visitor to this
place, I was very pleased to meet Miss
Rose Wallace at the depot this morning.
Both she and myself had felt a little uneasy,
lest the other missionary might fail to put
in an appearance, and the one be left to
make the visit alone.
	We had a pleasant ride and conversation
on the train. But “ooh”! wasn’t it cold
when we left the car and took the buggies
which the sisters of Grantsville had kindly
sent for us?
	Yesterday, when we had a little cold
squall in the middle of the day in Salt


[Column 1]
Lake City, they had a fierce blizzard here.
And the effects of it still hang around; the
weather is bitter cold.
	Yet, notwithstanding the cold ten miles-
ride from the Half Way House, we reached
the Grantsville meeting house in time for
the opening of the Relief Society Confer-
ence at 10.30, where we received a warm
welcome, were cheered, refreshed and made
comfortable.
	There was not a large turn out at the
forenoon meeting. Most of the leading
sisters of the Stake have been sick lately,
and several of them are still unable to leave
their homes. The Relief Society Stake
President, Sister Mary A. Hunter, is just
recovering from a severe attack of pneu-
monia. First Counselor, Sister Ellen C.
Anderson, was too ill today with sick head-
ache to be up. And although we had din-
ner at her house and were well cared for by
her daughter Hortense, Sister Anderson
was not able for even private conversation.
Second Counselor, Sister Rhoda A. Lyman,
has been suffering with rheumatism, and it
would have been imprudent for her to ven-
ture to ride from Tooele to Grantsville in
the cold wind and sleet today. So you can
understand that the Stake organization of
the Relief Society must appear to be rather
lame just now. But I want to tell you al-
though the authorities I have mentioned
were not present, we have had two excel-
lent meetings today, conducted by Stake
Secretary Mary A. House and Sister Emma
H. Anderson, daughter of President M. A.
Hunter, and Counselor in the Grantsville
Relief Society.
	Sister Rose C. Hammond, President of
the Relief Society in this place, has a very
sick babe, which renders her, also, unable
to attend the conference. But the meetings
have been well conducted, and encouraging
written reports from all but one of the eight
branches belonging to the Stake have been
furnished. Verbal reports were also given
by several presidents and representatives,
which aided much in enlivening the meet-
ings. The matter of storing up grain is
not overlooked by any of the branches re-
ported, but is made a prominent feature in
the industries carried on among them. The
music and singing in our meetings have
been very pleasing to us. Grantsville, I
believe, is noted for its fine singers. A
number of the brethren made us glad with
their presence and their good advice and
kind, encouraging words.
	Our dear and faithful friend, Sister M. A.
House, still goes about like a ministering
angel among the sick and suffering of the
ward.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting she
took us to see Sister Rose Hammond and
her sick child. There we had the sad satis-
faction of speaking words of comfort and
consolation to the sorrowing mother, and
mingling our prayers with her’s in behalf
of her afflicted little one. Also of witness-
ing the spirit of sympathy and loving kind-
ness which exists among the sisters here, to
a very marked degree, when there is a call
for the exercise of these high qualities.
	Several kind invitations were extended
to us for entertainment during our stay;
but as I always make my home with
Brother and Sister House when visiting in
Grantsville, Sister Wallace also joined us
this time, and we are very comfortably
sheltered in their cosy little habitation.
	That is, I am, and my companion was,
and will be again after the meeting this

[Column 2]
evening. Being positively worn out, really
too tired to go to the Young Ladies’ Con-
ference at 7.30 this evening, I have allowed
Miss Wallace to go without me.
	The wind blows wildly and the snow
falls fast. But we hope the young ladies
are having a good, cheering time in their
conference.
	Friday 12th. This morning we had a
delightful time with the children. Sister
Louisa C. Hale, Stake Superintendent of the
Primaries, and her assistants are doing a
noble work among the boys and girls in
this Stake of Zion. Bishop James L.
Wrathall of Grantsville, and several of the
leading brethren met with, and spoke en-
couragingly to the little ones and their
Primary officers.
	In the afternoon we met with the officers
of the three associations, Relief Society,
Young Ladies’ and Primaries. It was
truly a time of rejoicing and spiritual re-
freshing to us all. The older sisters and
young ones mingled their voices in songs
of praise, in prayer and testimony, and the
Spirit of the Lord was richly poured out,
strengthening, instructing and enlightening
all in the things of God.
	That was the closing of the conferences
and meetings which Sister Wallace and my-
self were appointed to attend. We have
both enjoyed much freedom in speaking to
the congregations with whom we have met,
and have rejoiced greatly with the people
here.
	After the Teacher’s meeting, as the
sisters called the last one, we again visited
Sister Hammond and her suffering darling,
in company with Sister House. Spoke as
cheeringly and soothingly as we could, and
Sister Hammond expressed herself as feel-
ing blest, and grateful for our visits. Her
little one still lingers between life and
death; but as it continues to grow weaker
there are now but faint hopes of its re-
covery. Before its illness it was evidently
a remarkably sweet and bright child.
	This evening we are glad to rest in our
friends’ quiet home, preparatory to a visit
to President M. A. Hunter tomorrow morn-
ing, and a ride home in the afternoon. We
have looked over Secretary House’s book,
and find it in excellent order; every thing re-
corde dup to date.
	Saturday 13th. President M. A. Hunter
we find bright and cheery as a girl. Glad
to see us and talk over business matters
connected with the Society, old times, the
experiences of our missionary boys, Temple
work etc. No one would suppose Sister
Hunter to be seventy years old from her
appearance but she is. She has not ven-
tured out of doors since her recent attack
of pneumonia. We have dinner with her,
and one of her grandsons takes us the ten
miles ride to the train. This finishes our
pleasant and successful visit to Grantsville.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	P. S. Just before we left Sister Hunter’s
place, Sister Hammond’s son Willie came
in to tell us the baby, little Paul Leland,
died at noon. All we can now do is to ex-
tend our continued sympathy to the bereav-
ed family.


