BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	On the afternoon of Monday the 8th an
enjoyable, and to those who participated in
it, a long to be remembered event took
place at the new residence of Sister Julia
Ives Pack, the occasion being the eightieth
anniversary of the birthday of that estima-
ble lady. About 3 p. m. those of Sis-
ter Pack’s children who reside here, with
a few others of the family surprised her,
bringing with them good wishes and good
cheer. The afternoon was spent in pleasant
converse and reminiscences of other days,
until just as the shades of evening fell a
burst of song from an adjoining room
heralded the arrival of the grandchildren
swelling the number to forty-two. A
bountiful feast was quickly spread and after
all had partaken, the cozy parlors were
again sought and a pleasing program car-
ried out, consisting of songs, recitations
and speeches. The latter were responded
to in a feeling manner by Mother Pack; also
by Sister Ruth M. Pack. A pleasing
feature in the program was the reading of
a poetical address by Sister Laura C. Pack,
also an historical sketch in verse, of events
in Sister Packs life, followed by a brief his-
torical address from the pen of Pres’t.
Ward E. Pack, for the benefit of the young-
er members of the family. With many
happy wishes and kind good nights, the
party separated feeling that such reunions
are as a rich oasis in the arid journey of
life.
	March 12th, 1897.
TO OUR MOTHER.
Dear mother, we lovingly greet thee
	This day of thy eightieth year,
In thy snug little home so cosy and neat
	And near to thy children so dear 

Though some are not now here with us, 
Though mountains and vales intervene,
We know their hearts with ours unite
	To crown their dear mother a queen. 

And bravely, yes nobly you’ve earned it,
	Through scenes of affliction and strife
Have e’er been a fond, loving mother,
	A noble and true, loving wife.

Your hand has been free to the needy
	To give succor to the poor and oppressed;
The suffering and needy have blessed you
	For you’ve cheered them in sorest distress.

We hope when the warm summer breezes
	Again shall kiss our fair land,
Our loved ones will come here to join us
	And again clasp the warm, loving hand.

We will do all we can to make welcome
	And happy while with us they stay,
We will have a reunion to strengthen
	And comfort us each on our way.

And we trust that each will look forward
	To the Grand Reunion to come,
And hope we may welcome each other
	Again in our Great Father’s home.


