HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

	ON Wednesday afternoon March 10,
1897, the eightieth anniversary of the birth
of Sister Rachel Whipple, President of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward was cele-
brated in the New Society Building of that
ward. The hall was beautifully decorated
with mottoes and flowers suited to the occa-
sion. There were about sixty-five persons
present, among whom were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-
bella Horne, Elizabeth J. Stevenson Sister
Rawlings and President and Counselors of
the Y. L. M. I. A., also Brother Arthur
Winter of the Bishopric and Brother Henry
Gardner who rendered some fine vocal
selections accompanied on the organ by
Sister Rose Flashman.
	“O My Father” and “Home Sweet
Home” were beautifully rendered by the
sweet singer Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley.
Speeches appropriate for the occasion were
listened to with pleasure, after which a
bounteous repast was partaken of by all
present.
	Upon inquiring it was learned that there
were five persons present who had been ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and eight persons who had come to Utah
during the years of 1847, ’48 and ’49.
	Sister Whipple has been an active work-
er in the Relief Society of the 22nd ward
ever since its organization in 1868, acting
as First Counselor and for the last eighteen
years as President.
	She has set a grand example
		For her sisters, one and all;
	Has pressed on with humble patience
		And been true to every call.
	May God’s choicest blessings ever
		Be strewn along her way,
	May her heart be filled with pleasure
		In her labors day by day.
	She will reap a bounteous harvest
		For her work so nobly done,
	And in God’s Celestial Kingdom
		Claim an everlasting home.
			CAROLINE SMITH, Secretary.


MRS. GENERAL GRANT made the first
move against intoxicating liquors at the
White House, and secured its banishment
from the President’s New Years reception.
Mrs. Grant was succeeded by Mrs. Hayes,
a lifelong teetotaler, who never offered
wine. Next came Mrs. Garfield, Mrs.
Harrison and Mrs. Cleveland, all total
abstainers, and none of them furnishing
wine to their own guests, though lacking
the co-operation of their husbands, they
could not prevent its use at State dinners,
as Mrs Hayes could because the President’s
views coincided with her own. Mrs. Mc-
Kinley is well known to be a total abstain-
er, so that, as Frances Willard points out,
the wives of six Presidents, (President
Arthur was a widower) since 1868, have
perhaps dealt more telling blows against
the drinking habit than any other women
who have lived. For “where McGregor
sits is the head of the table,’’ and what is
done at the White House is the keynote of
social observances for millions.
	CARMEN SYLVA has received the
decoration for Arts and Sciences from the
Emperor of Austria. She is the first wo-
man to win this distinction.


