ELIZABETH DETTE LAKER NOALL.

	THE sudden news of the departure from
this life of Sister Libbie Noall, as she was
generally known by the sisters and her
intimate acquaintances, was a great shock
to her many friends and a loss to the
community. Sister Noall was one of the
loveliest women of her day, in character
and in nobility of soul, and one of the most
active in the Church in the lines of work in
which she was called to take part. She
seemed to possess adaptability for whatever
she undertook to do; the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies’ Association, the Sunday
school and the Primary seemed all equally
dear to her and for each one of these from
time to time she labored faithfully and well.
Very few if any women have accomplished
so much in so short a lifetime, and yet Sis-
ter Noall was a delicate woman physically.
Spiritually she possessed faith, energy,
strength and courage.
	Her principal labors were upon the
Sandwich Islands among the native sisters;
the writer recalls vividly to mind her first
impressions of Sister Noall and the nar-
ration of her work, while upon the first
mission to the Sandwich Islands with her
husband as related after their return in 1889.
But after going back to the islands again,
when her husband was called upon his
second mission, she kept up a correspon-
dence with the writer in reference to the
Relief Society there, and the labors among
the sisters, that brought her very near, and
made her very dear. Her letters were
precious gems of thought, and her ideas and
the lofty conceptions she had of her daily
work, showed plainly how deeply she real-
ized the great responsibility of helping the
native women of these islands, who were
untaught in the principles of the Gospel,
and in the common duties of life in the
home; and their anxiety to become like
their sisters over the sea urged Sister Noall
on, to do and to acquire information and
means to carry on their work in teaching
them, which seemed almost miraculous un-
der the circumstances.
	The pamphlet prepared by Sister Noall
in the Hawaiian language is a credit to her
tact, and also a true expression of her great
desire to instruct the Hawaiian sisters in the
same lines of thought and activity possessed
by the Society in the various Stakes of
Zion; the book contains 32 pages. For
this work our sister sent to the Deseret
News for the cuts of Sister Zina D. H.
Young and her Counselors, so that the sis-
ters there might better understand who
were the women, who were at the head of
this great charitable society.
	The interesting articles we have publish-
ed from those far-off lands, written for the
EXPONENT by Sister Noall, have given our
readers some idea of her arduous labors in
endeavoring to teach them civilized meth-
ods and spiritual development in them-
selves and in the manner of conducting their
meetings.
	Sister Noall was gifted in writing and


[Column 1]
in speaking; her voice was mellifluous and
sweet and she had a great flow of language;
and she was whole-souled and genuine.
It has been stated that she spoke the Hawa-
iian language perfectly as much so as possi-
ble for one not born among them. She
presided over the Relief Society in that mis-
sion and assisted in organizing the Relief
Society in many branches, and traveled
from island to island, in the interest of the
work; she also organized a Primary Asso-
ciation in Honolulu and in Laie. The sad
news of her death will be deeply felt among
the saints in that land. Her devotion to
the Church both in the mission and at
home, is an example our young people
would all do well to follow. Her implicit
faith in the power of the priesthood was
sublimely manifest up to the last moment
of her life.
	Elizabeth Dette Laker was born at St.
Charles, Bear Lake, Idaho, Nov. 11, 1864.
Her parents are Lashbrook and Annie Bry-
son Laker, and in her childhood she was
religiously inclined. She was early identi-
fied with the Sunday school and Mutual
Improvement Association. She was fond
of writing both poetry and prose and was
certainly of a poetic nature.
	Miss Laker married Elder Mathew Noall
June 21, 1885, and in November of the
same year went to the Sandwich Islands
with her husband, remaining three years
and five months at that time, returning
again in December, 1889, Elder Noall
having been chosen to preside over the
mission upon the Sandwich Islands. This
last time they were gone three years and
eleven months, returning in Nov. 1895.
The two missions covering a period of
seven years and four months.
	Shortly after reaching home Brother and
Sister Noall buried one of their children, a
little boy born to them on the islands (one
of three born there) and Sister Noall griev-
ed over her bereavement excessively, and it
is said never quite regained her former
health afterwards, although she made a
very great effort to overcome the excess of
her sorrow. She leaves four children, three
girls and a boy, one a babe four months
old, to mourn the loss of a tender mother
and devoted saint. May the Lord comfort
the sorrowing husband who has been called
to part with a loving wife, the companion
of his youth and may the little children
thus bereft travel in the same safe path as
their dearly beloved mother, who has now
passed behind the veil, that they may all be
reunited again where there is no more sor-
row, grief or pain, nor parting forever.
May these little ones keep ever in mind,
		“A memory of the gentle dead
		A lingering spell of love.”
	Sister Noall died Sabbath morning March
21st, at 4.05 o’clock at her residence in this
city, after a week’s illness with pneumonia.
Her funeral services were held in the
Twenty-second ward meeting house on
Thursday at 2 p. m. The house was filled
with relatives and friends. Numerous
floral emblems testified also of love and
sympathy. The services were conducted
by the Bishop of the ward, Alfred Solo-
mon. Among those who addressed the
congregation on this solemn occasion was
President George Q. Cannon who, because
of his own long and varied experience upon
the Islands, was well prepared to appreciate
the labors of Sister Noall, knowing the
many difficulties to be overcome in such a

[Column 2]
labor as she performed. President Angus
M. Cannon also occupied a short time and
others bore faithful testimonies of her good
works.
	Much as we who are left may regret her
being called away to the “better land,”
yet we must acknowledge our Father’s
will in all things, and remember she rests
from her labors and her works follow her.
Her good name and the record she has
made will live forever in the hearts of the
saints.

Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work,
	like hers, is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our trea-
	sures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.”


