LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting Feb. 20, 1897. Called to order by
Sister E. Webb. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet;” prayer by
Sister Annie T. Hyde; singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Sister Webb gave the meeting
into the hands of the sisters and wanted a
blessing. Sister Forsythe and Mair and 
others testified to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Brown bore a strong testimony, made
some excellent remarks.
	The secretary coming in the minutes of
the previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	After which, a number of sisters spoke,
Sisters Jane James, Martha Barrow, Han-
nah Conklin, Christine Rockwell also Sis- 
ters Hunter and Nunn and others whose
names were not known; all bore testimony
to the truth of this work and many of them
referred to the need of safeguards being
thrown around our young people and the
children of Zion, the necessity of teaching
honesty, morality, truthfulness and the
strictest virtue and of setting a good exam-
ple in our own lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she had been
born and raised in this Church and had been
taught nothing else by her parents. If she was
not a Latter-day Saint it was her own fault.
Spoke upon charity and love, and made
some very encouraging remarks to the sis-
ters. Testified that if we put our trust in
the Lord that He would comfort and bless
us, and give us that which we needed.
Sister Hyde gave notice of the coming Con-
ference.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb made some
closing remarks which were very comfort-
ing and asked the blessing of the Lord upon
us all. Singing “This God is the God we
adore.” Benediction by Sister Zina H.
Bull.

	Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall, March 20, 1897,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Now let us rejoice;” prayer
offered by one of the sisters; singing “How
firm a foundation;” minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Counselor
Stevenson made the announcement that
President Horne had gone to Provo, conse-
quently could not be with us today. Spoke
of the courage of those who ventured out to
meeting on such a stormy day, and felt
they would receive a blessing. Referred
to Heber C. Kimball’s words being fulfilled
that there was a test coming to the people,
we must not feel we were the only ones
who had trials for they were common to all.
Sister Stevenson then gave the meeting in-
to the hands of the sisters.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown expressed her-
self very fervently in reference to her testi-
mony and experience in this work, and ex-
horted to diligence, obedience and humility.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor felt we should
have confidence in one another; thought
it was good for us to have trials, they
would purify us and make us strong to
meet temptation; considered our Heavenly
Father knew what was best for us and
would not try us more than we were able
to bear; admonished the sisters to have
charity and love and help one another, not
to find fault with those who preside over
us in the Church, but look to ourselves
rather than others.
	Sister Margaret Young felt it was an

[Column 2]
advantage to each one who testified to
the goodness of God referred to the trials
of the Saints in the early history of the
Church.
	Sister Wright, Sister Frances Smith, Sis-
ter Jones, Sister Mary Morris, Sister Cham-
berlain, Sister Jane James, Sister Mary
Ann Hardy each made excellent remarks
and bore strong testimonies. Sister Lydia
D. Alder spoke of the coming Easter and
the feelings it always inspired within her;
spoke of the parable of the ten virgins and
made some excellent remarks. Sister Julia
C. Howe felt we had had a feast, felt
spiritually we were all hungering and had
been fed. Sister Howe also spoke earnestly
upon prayer.
	Sister Armeda S. Young said she wished
the support of the sisters in regard to the
work of Sister Sorenson, which consists of
hygiene, or the prevention of disease and
how to take care of our bodies. She then
proceeded to give an illustration of it.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson made a few
closing remarks and fully endorsed every-
thing Sister Young had said. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Singing Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Margaret F.
Steele.
		ZINA H. BULL, Secretary.


