[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: EMERY STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

			EMERY STAKE.

	The Emery Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Ferron, May 13, and al-
though the weather was unfavorable and the
roads very muddy, the attendance exceeded
the average of our former conferences. Espe-
cially was there a good attendance of young
people. The hall was artistically prepared
and the floral decorations were profuse.
	The Relief Society stake officers were all
present. The morning session began at 10.
o’clock. President Mary A. Sorensen gave
a welcome address and also reported the
general condition of the Relief Society of the
stake.
	Miss Gertrude King rendered a beautiful
instrumental selection.
	Other speakers were Stake Counselor Ca-
roline M. Guymon, Bishop Newel K. Beal
and Elder Seth Allen.
	Sisters Nettie Crawford and Fannie Fox
sang ‘ Lead Me, O, My Savior.”
	Sister Lottie Duncan recited “The Way
to Heaven” and Sister Cheshire sang “Nau-
voo.”
	President Myra Hansen gave a good re-
port of the Ferron Relief Society.
	After the choir sang ‘‘Redeemer of Israel”
and the benediction had been pronounced
the curtain which divides the stage from the
hall, was raised, displaying tables spread
with the bounties of life and all were invited
to remain and partake of the same. This
was a pleasant surprise which the Ferron
Relief Society sisters, under the direction of
President Myra Hansen, had prepared. The
tables were beautifully decorated and the
young ladies, who waited on tables, were
cheerful and attentive.
	After two hours spent in dining, chatting
and shaking hands the afternoon session be-
gan. The speakers were President Mary A.
Sorensen, Counselor Mary J.King and Elder
Hyrum Zwahlen.
	About twenty little kindergarten children
sweetly sang “The Child and the River.”
	Reports were given by President Mary J.
Seely, Jane R. Cox and Treena Caldwell,
and a report of the Emery Relief Society was
read.
	Sister Olive Olsen gave a recitation en-
titled, “Shall We Know Each Other There?”
and Ruth May Fox rendered an instrumental
selection.
	A sketch of President Bathsheba W.Smith,
prepared by Sister Ada Petty, was read.
	A poem entitled to “To Aunt Em” was
read by the secretary.
	Choir sang “God Be With You Till We
Meet Again.”
	Benediction by Sister Annie Swensen.
			Annie Maria Allen,
						Secretary.

[Column 3]
