[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST. | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS]

L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Among the many great heroines of the
Church in early days, one hardly knows
which to select as foremost to mention, but
certainly of the early Kirtland sisters, Sis-
ter Marinda N. Johnson Hyde should be
recognized as figuring conspicuously as a
historical character; and also upon her own
merits as a woman of superior intellect and
ability. And indeed she came of a family
of distinction and of good standing in the
community where they resided.
	Father and Mother Johnson, as they were
designated in the rise of the Church in Kirt-
land and vicinity, were people of means and
of influence and among the first to receive the
Gospel, two of the sons, brothers of Sister
Hyde, were chosen members of the first quo-
rum of the Twelve Apostles, Lyman and
Luke Johnson. Moreover one need not go
back to her antecedents in giving personal
impressions of this famous woman. Her
majestic appearance, stature and figure,
with perfect self-poise would be noticeable
in any company, in fact her tout ensemble,
would reveal at a glance, the characteristics
of one born to lead, and to manage affairs;

[Column 2]
she also had the faculty to accumulate
means, or property, so to speak, and to
carry on any business a woman might un-
dertake successfully.
	She was decidedly in the best sense a
home-maker and her housewifely manage-
ment was a delight and a luxury in itself.
She was a woman to lean upon, and to re-
pose confidence in; one who would never
betray a trust, in fact would go through fire
and water rather than reveal that which had
been entrusted to her as a sacred obligation.
	Sister Hyde was not only charitable to
the needy and unfortunate, but more than
that, she was philanthropic and magnani-
mous, possessing the best requisites for fill-
ing a position, that would not only require
great wisdom, but the keenest sense of true
justice, tempered with mercy. One of her
delightful attributes was her accurate appre-
ciation of talent, and of tenderness and af-
fection in those with whom she mingled;
and her mindfulness of their efforts to do
and to promote the welfare of their fellow-
workers, and of the society in which they
were associated for the betterment of all
concerned, and the people at large.
	Her courage under difficulties and in try-
ing circumstances was something superb;
and her cheerfulness in personal affliction
was sublime in its heroic endurance.
	We often speak of women as the South-
ern type or the Northern type, the Puritan
type and so on, but although Marinda John-
son was born in Vermont, one of the New
England States, yet I could not possibly
class her as the Puritan type, she often spoke
of herself as belonging to what is termed now-
a-days “the old school,” and she really had
an old fashioned dignity, correct manners
and lady-like deportment, which belonged
to the well bred people. She was what
might be summed up in the word used so
much in modern literature a “thoroughbred.”
I might say the type of woman of the Revo-
lution, sort of military in bearing and cer-
tainly a woman of prestige.
	Her whole life from early girlhood empha-
sized her innate reverence for sacred things
and principles. She was a speaker of un-
usual power and had a far-reaching and
penetrating voice; one too who could com-
prehend others without, much explanation,
could read character and motives well, and
was in the best sense broad-minded. In
calling her attention to a new movement or
plan of work, or action, she judged accur-
ately, but never narrowed any method of de-
velopment. Her ideas were intensely prac-
tical, she was not at all visionary, but well-
balanced on all general subjects, and able
to discuss grave questions. A woman like-
ly to be chosen to settle a point at issue
among those who differed, a good arbitra-
tor, one who was a firm believer in equal
rights for man and woman on all questions;
and one who had helped to colonize in new
countries, and had experienced the disad-
vantages women with young families have
had to encounter when their husbands are
absent on long missions abroad. Sister
Hyde had traveled quite extensively herself,
and had met with eminent and distinguished
people.

[Column 3]
	Among the many great women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints whom I have known person-
ally and revered, and for whom I cherish the
most profound love and esteem, and whose
names I would wish to see engraven on a
roll of honor, and whose virtues and heroic
example are worthy to be followed by the
women of today, I count Marinda Hyde
equal in excellence to those heretofore men-
tioned.
		A noble type of good
		Heroic womanhood.
	Marinda N. Johnson Hyde, born June 28,
1815, Pomfret, Windsor County, Vermont,
died Salt Lake City, Utah, March 24, 1886.

	As representaive women of the early days
the one just mentioned, Sister Hyde and
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball are two
unique types; unlike yet very intimately as-
sociated in the days of Kirtland and ever
afterwards. Both were women of great force
of character and possessed of endurance, able
to cope with difficulties along life’s way.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball was the true
Yankee type came of Puritan ancestors, of
the earliest period in New England history.
She was tall and strait as an arrow in figure,
of “proper manners” and deportment of the
days in which she was born and reared, and
was so thoroughly imbued with the prudish
ideas of decorum of that early Puritanical
period, that any departure from it was re-
prehensible from her point of view.
	Withal she was very progressive along all
lines of intellectual growth and educational
attainments; she had been a woman of
means and had the advantages of what is
termed good society, as a young woman and
matron; and after her marriage had a beau-
tiful home of her own and pleasant sur-
roundings; she had exquisite taste in the
cultivation of flowers and artistic skill with
the pencil and brush which she used for her
own amusement and gratification, and for the
adornment of her home successfully.
	There was a sort of simple elegance about
Mrs. Hyrum Kimball (as she was called)
that entered into all her life work, and she
had a keen appreciation of the beauties of
scenery which made her a delightful travel-
ing companion. She had a good faculty for
teaching could simplify lessons and adapt
them to the understanding of those whom she
instructed. She possessed excellent power of
concentration, something quite unusual in
women, and she was well versed in the lite-
rature of the time, and the political ques-
tions that have agitated the minds of women
much during the nineteenth century period;
she was inclined to argument on points of
law and political economy, and was quite in-
dependent and decided in her views on the
woman question could express herself partic-
ularly well, and never hestitated in giving
her opinion upon equality of the sexes. In
fact she would rank as a leader in the wo-
man’s movement, and in many respects she
resembled the illustrious so called General,
Susan B. Anthony.
	Sister Kimball had largely developed exe-
cutive ability to accumulate property and
to take care of it to the best advantage.


[Column 1]
	She was a very good public speaker con-
cise in language and expression, used as few
words as possible to convey her meaning
and invariably handled her subjects well.
Her voice was rather incisive but she could
be heard well and understood where a more
fluent speaker might be misunderstood.
	Sister Kimball was original and indepen-
dent in her ideas; and in public measures
her plans were well-matured before she pre-
sented them, and therefore the more convinc-
ing; and she had a decidedly positive man-
ner that some might construe as aggresive.
	However Sister Kimball was a woman of
high ideals about spiritual matters and was
a deep religious thinker, and reasoner, and
a student of the Bible, Book of Mormon and
other Latter-day Saint books of a similar
kind; and the writings of Orson and Parley
P. Pratt and their Sermons she was particu-
larly fond of reading.
	Sister Kimball was methodical and prac
tical generally, but some of her writings on
philosophical and spiritual subjects were
rather extraordinary and although in speak-
ing she was clear and comprehensive, yet in
her writings she was abstruse and inclined
to be mystical, and yet she was so strong-
minded, and well-balanced that she would
never be the least likely to go beyond her
depth. She was really an advanced thinker
and fond of diving into the unknown, or
soaring upward to sublime heights. The
writer recalls one or two of her articles that
made quite a sensation at the time; upon
subjects with which women are now quite
conversant.
	Sister Kimball had the attributes of a re-
former along many lines, was at one time
quite an advocate of dress reform, something
very much needed in the present day.
	She was a woman one liked to talk with
even if one could not always coincide with
her views, and one was pretty sure to learn
something by conversation with her, even if
one was worsted in an argument, she was
certainly well worth listening to, and excel-
lent in debate.
	There was nothing common place about
Sister Kimball: like others of the sisters who
belonged to that period of the Church, she
had held converse wtth the greatest minds
of this dispensation, men who had been
favored of the Lord and taught of Him by
revelation and she had sat under their teach-
ing, and listened to their wise sayings, and
profited by their instruction; of these woman
who were familiar with the great Latter-day
Prophet, but few now remain only one or
two yet living, scarcely any in fact; they be-
longed to a period in the history of the
Church with which those women who are
foremost in our Church work today know
but very little.
	Sarah Kimball was exceptional in that
she had some traits of character unlike any
other woman of whom I have written, most-
ly undeveloped however; she was something
of a phrenologist, and a pretty good reader
of character, delicate in her nature, a little
cold in her manner, one does not care to
make comparisons, “they are said to be
odious” but there were some points of re-
semblance between Sister Eliza R. Snow and
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Sarah Melissa Granger married name
Kimball was born in Phelps, Ontario County,
New York, December 29, 1818, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, December 1, 1898.

	In close fellowship with Marinda Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball was another loyal
and devoted woman whose life-work for

[Column 2]
years was closely interwoven with the two
women whose names are mentioned here.
Sister Sarepta M. Blodgett Heywood, a
charming and brilliant women, lovable and
loyal, in all places and at all times, mother-
ly in the sweetest and dearest ways, she al-
ways had a smile for her friends, no matter
how her own heart might ache. She was
tender to the very fibres of her being. She
loved all living creatures, and was especially
kind and deferential to the aged, the help-
less and unfortunate. Her unbounded sym-
pathy for all sorrows whether through mis-
fortune or weakness or from whatever cause,
was something sublime in its expression and
effect. None appealed to her in vain; none
were ever turned away without some allevi-
ation.
	Her home was a delightful place of re-
pose and restfulness; she knew just what to
do for the comfort and entertainment of
guests whether her friends came singly or
in crowds, there was always the cordial wel-
come. Hospitality was one of her chief at-
tractions in the days when there were not
many bounties to dispense, and the Saints
were in need of substantial support to tide
over the time of scarcity. Sister Heywood
will always be remembered as one of those
who would divide the last morsel with a
friend, or any one in need, if to feed the
hungry and clothe the destitute is the sub-
limest charity, then she stands pre-eminent
in this regard. Her good deeds, her acts of
kindness and benevolence can never be
forgotten. Many will rise up and call her
blessed at the last day for the help extended
in the hour of great privation.
	Sister Heywood had received a liberal edu-
cation, graduating at last from a celebrated
institution of learning in Buffalo, New
York, and had been a great reader of good
books, and was a woman who always
dressed becomingly and in excellent taste;
she was graceful and attractive in manner
and possessed a fund of humor that seemed
always to bubble up at the right moment to
give zest and tone to common place conver-
sation or dulness that needed enlivening, she
was a woman of tact, which is said to be
better than talent.
	Sister Heywood was a most pleasing pub-
lic speaker, she had a sweet voice and her
intonation was perfect, she was gifted in
prayer, was of a religious and devotional na-
ture and one particularly well-adapted to the
dispensing wisely of means given for chari-
table purposes.
	In her own neighborhood and the local
Relief Society, where she was counselor to
Sister Marinda Hyde, the president from its
first organization (her husband was bishop
there) she was a prime favorite.
	One cannot recall her without thinking of
her beautiful eyes, that seemed to speak with-
out words, so full were they of soulfulness.
	Unlike most of the Latter-day Saints who
had been persecuted and driven from place
to place, the Heywood’s were people of
means and resources; this may have come
about because of Sister Heywood’s excellent
management of household affairs.
	Sarepta M. Blodgett, married name
Haywood, was born in Monroe, Ashtabula
Co., Ohio, November 22, 1822. Died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, November 23, 1886,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Ruth Bryan Leavitt, the daughter of
William Jennings Bryan, was chosen as de-
legate at large to the Colorado State Demo-
cratic Convention, which met at Glenwood


