[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: Unknown]

IN MEMORIAM.
		EMILY WELLS GRANT.
“Death is the crown of life!”
	The Latter-day Saints believe death opens
the portal to eternal life, and yet we mourn
for those who go out into the unknown,
while we believe they are welcomed on the
other side, as we welcome and rejoice when
an immortal soul is born into this world,
where we know there is trial and sorrow,
awaiting all who come.
	It is in our nature to mourn for our loved
ones when the parting comes, yet we do and
must acknowledge the hand of the Lord,
even when the nearest and dearest are taken.
	“What shall we add now? She is dead”
Death seems to close our lips at first, and
we can only exclaim, all is over she is gone;
it is useless our doing, our grief, our tears,
they avail naught, yet we weep, we sigh, we
mourn, it seems to give relief to our agon-
zed hearts, although we realize our weeping
is in vain. We cannot bring them back, we
would not, if we could.
	Our beloved Emily has gone where there
is—
	No more weeping, no more sighing,
		No more agonizing fears
	And no requiem for the dying
		Chanted ’mid-the falling tears.

	Angel escorts bearing banners
		Every entrance watch to see
	One who cometh with hosannas
		Marching on to victory!
	If we could look within the pearly gates,
that open to the heavenly mansions, we
would be humiliated with our own weak-
ness, but we are so intensely human, and
those are taken whom we fain would keep,
and we cannot help exclaiming,what avails,
now she is dead:
	Sweet Emily, how brave she was during
her long and tedious illness, patient and
tender always, trying to bear her affliction
with the fortitude of a saint of God. How
fondly her relatives and friends sought to
exercise faith for her recovery, hoping against
hope for weeks and months, praying earnest-
ly to the Lord to spare her for the dear chil-
drens’ sake.
	Sister Grant had every thing to live for, a
noble and kind husband who seemed to
anticipate her every wish, beautiful daught-
ers, brothers and sisters who almost idolized
her, and hosts of friends, who were devotedly
attached to her, for she had such charming,
attractive qualities, and withal a fine sense
of humor, and could use it tactfully to the
admiration of those whom she cared to please;
she was a great favorite in her girlhood among
the crowd of young people, school-fellows and
campanions; she never lacked for attention
here or there, wherever she went, winning in
her manner and a graceful dancer; she had
many accomplishments as well as home
adornments.
	The few years she passed abroad where
her husband, Apostle Heber J. Grant, pre-
sided over the European mission, gave her
the opportunity to see the world and to be-
come acquainted with many Latter-day
Saints, at the headquarters in Liverpool,
and those going upon missions and return-
ing; and she had the faculty of endearing
herself to them all, and invariably they
spoke of Sister Grant with sincere affection
and high regard. Those few years brighten-
ed her life greatly, and when after returning
to this city and meeting again her blessed
mother, and the dear ones here, she became


[Column 1]
settled in her hew home, which she had plan-
ned to suit herself and among her dearest
friends, it seemed as if her life might flow on
like a happy dream.
	But alas for human expectations, she was
not permitted long to enjoy the rich bles-
sings of home and mother, husband and
children. Everything that could be done
for her ease and gratification was thought of
and no expense was spared, loving hands
ministered to her, and those about her were
thoughtful of every act and attention. And
yet she could not stay with those who held
her in the strongest bonds of affection.
Therefore we must say “He doeth all things
well,” knowing it was the Father’s will.
The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
Because we miss them from our onward way,
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed
Looked on us all and loving them the most
Straightway relieved them from life’s weary load.
They are not lost, they are within the door
That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore
And God Himself their Lord, and Judge, and King.
	Sad was the parting here, yet Sister Grant
has many dear ones there, and the welcome
will be beyond what words can express; her
only boy Daniel, her beautiful Sister Dessie,
her mother, father, and others loved and
cherished, relatives and friends, and an in-
numerable company of saints and angels
welcomed her to “the golden shore.”
	Emily Wells Grant was the daughter of
President Daniel H. Wells and his wife
Martha G. Wells (recently deceased) and
was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 22,
1857: she grew to womanhood in an environ-
ment of love and happiness, she had the
very best educational advantages, the Utah
schools and University afforded. She was
married to Elder Heber J. Grant in 1884—
and was the mother of five children Dessie,
and Grace, both now in early womanhood,
and Daniel (deceased) Emily and Frances still
young in years. Sister Grant was a loving
and tender mother and a charming woman
in all the delicate relations of domestic life.
	Sister Grant passed peacefully away after
a painfully tedious illness under which she
bore up heroically on Monday, May 25, at
3:15 p.m. surrounded by her immediate fam-
ily, her mother’s sister Emily Bullock was
also present, and must have been a great
stay and comfort to the family, who had so
recently parted with the mother, Sister Mar-
tha Wells only a few days previous.
	The funeral was held at the home on
Wednesday May 27, at 2 p. m. Bishop T.
A. Clawson presiding at the services. The
opening prayer was offered by President
Anthon H. Lund, and was eloquent with
feeling and consolation to the bereaved.
Elder O. F. Whitney, a life-long friend paid
a glowing tribute to her life and memory.
Elder Rudger Clawson followed him allud-
ing to their long acquaintance and pleasant
association, her praiseworthy life and the
faithful record she had made. The music
was furnished by the Pyper, Whitney, Spen-
cer and Ensign quartet accompanied by
Prof. Arthur Shepherd and was sweet and
soothing, the first hymn was “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” then “O my Father”
rendered by Horace Ensign, Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee’s hymn “Resting now from
care and sorrow” sung as a solo by Elder
George D. Pyper and the anthem “Not Dead
But Sleepeth,” closed: the closing prayer
was offered by Elder Richard W. Young.

[Column 2]
	Sister Grant was literally buried in flowers
of the most delicate fragrance, in fact the
casket was covered and the room filled in
every nook and corner, the sweetest perfume
of flowers everywhere, the gifts of her many
dear friends, and what can be more emble-
matic of purity and loveliness.
	“Flowers preach to us if we will hear.”
	The pall bearers were six of her brothers:
Rulon S. Wells, Louis R. Wells, Gershom
B. Wells, Melvin D. Wells, Charles H. Wells
and Victor P. Wells.
	The grave was dedicated by Elder Joseph
Hyrum Grant and the beautiful hymn “Rest
on the hillside, rest” was softly and sweetly
sung by the quartet, the casket was lowered
into the grave lined with the sweetest flowers
of May.
	Farewell a word so tender, so sad, for
those who stay but
		“They who go
	Feel not the pain of parting; it is they
	Who stay behind that suffer.”
		“Fare thee well;
	The elements be kind to thee and make
	Thy spirits all of comfort.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
