UTAH CHARITY KINDERGARTEN.

	THE entertainment to be given at the
Theatre tonight, Oct. 15, is to be one of
the most unique affairs ever given by the
children of this city. Miss May Earle has
been indefatigable in her labor to make it
a success, and Mrs. H. S. Young the presi-
dent of-the association, and her co-workers
have worked incessantly to secure every
possible advantage to make it telling and
effective. Mrs. Kate Bridewell Anderson
has rendered valuable assistance, and the
little people who are to appear in the oper-
ratta (The Rebellion of the Daisies) have ex-
quisite costumes. The parents of the Child-
ren who are taking part have spared no
pains, trouble or expense to aid in this
charitable enterprise. If the generous pub-
lic will manifest their interest in this philan-
thropic movement to educate the little ones
by patronizing the entertainment on the two
occasions, tonight and Saturday Matinee,
they will be more than repaid in seeing this
new and novel opera. Prof. H. S. God-
dard has kindly consented to apppar for
sweet charity’s sake.


MISS LOMBROSO, the daughter of the
Italian professor has written a volume, the
title of which is “On the Happiness of
Women.”
	THE annual business meeting of the
U. F. W. C. will be held in the parlors of
the Congregational Church, Saturday morn-
ing October 23, at ten o’clock. Election of
officers, amendments to the constitution and
other matters of business will be transacted.


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes.
	Dr. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridewell Anderson,
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third 
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m, ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

