SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society conference held at Gunnison, Sep.
10, 1897, Prest. M. A. Hyde presiding.
Singing “Earth with her ten thousand
flowers.” Prayer by Bishop C. A. Mad-
sen. Singing “O my Father” etc. Min-
utes of previous conference read and approved
	Prest. M. A. Hyde made opening re-
marks. The different branches of the Re-
lief Society were represented as follows,
according to the roll call: Ephraim North
Ward, Prest. Benedicta Hansen; Ephraim
South Ward, Prest. Ellen Dorius; Foun-
tain Green, Prest. Polly A. Johnson; Fay-
ette, Prest. Eliza Bartholomew; Gunnison,
Prest. Helena Madsen; Mt. Pleasant and

[Column 2]
Wales by letters to Stake Counselor A. L.
Cox; Manti North Ward, Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker; Manti South Ward,
Prest. Esther Anderson; Mayfield, Prest.
Matilda Olsen; Spring City, Counselor
Nancy Acord; Sterling, Counselor Johan-
na Anderson; Fairview, Milburn and
Indianola not represented.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde felt thankful to hear
such favorable reports and to see so many
present. Noted the signs of the times, and
spoke of the large number of missionaries
being sent to the nations as having peculiar 
significance. She was pleased to see the
spirit of kindness and charity that was exist-
ing among the sisters of the Stake.
	Prest. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake City,
expressed herself as being delighted with
the favorable reports from the various wards.
Said the mission of the Relief Society was
not alone to administer to the wants of the
needy, but to save souls and to build each
other up in the faith. Urged the sisters to
exhort their husbands to good works and to
be kind to them. Said that like the Apos-
tle Paul she had nothing new to tell, but
she thought it profitable that we have our
minds stirred up by way of remembrance;
also considered it very necessary that we
attended our meetings in order to make a
good record, for we are told in Holy Writ
that we are to be judged out of the books.
	Singing “Now let us rejoice.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing “How
firm a foundation.” Stake Counselor
Abigail Shoemaker was the first speaker.
Said we were here to make a record for our-
selves and hoped we would be more dili-
gent. Referred to the beautiful harvest
and the necessity of storing grain especially
now that many of the inhabitants of the
earth are threatened with famine. Thank-
ed the sisters for their ready response to the
call for carpet for the Temple.
	Stake Counselor Lizzie B. Allred, of the
Primary organization, reported the work in
her field of labor. Said the officers desired
a larger attendance, and felt that the occa-
sional presence of the mothers would en-
courage both those presiding and the chil-
dren.
	Stake Counselor A. L Cox hoped that the
sisters would be more diligent in attending
the meetings of the Society, and that they
would strive earnestly to overcome their
timidity that they might arise and bear tes-
timony. Referred to the signs of the times
and the necessity of being continually on
our guard to resist the wiles of the adver-
sary. Besought the mothers to gain the
confidence of their sons as well as their
daughters, and strive to impress upon them
the necessity of keeping the commandments
and living their religion; and that having a
good time should be in doing the will of
the Father.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde spoke of timidity, but
said also that we are not heard for our
much speaking but by the spirit which
prompts our words. Said the young should
not be educated that they will feel ashamed
of honest labor. Said that God and knowl-
edge combined in doing the work of the
Lord would be productive of much good.
	Sister M. I. Horne was much interested
in the subject of storing grain, as it is a
mission that has been placed upon the sis-
ters, and hoped the sisters of this Stake
would be diligent in performing this duty.
Spoke of the children, said “they are the
hope of Israel,” and urged the mothers to

[Column 3]
teach them obedience to proper authority
and to have them baptized when eight years
old, lest the Lord hold us accountable for
our neglect. Said woman’s highest mission
was to be a mother, and eulogized the ideal
home where love and unity prevail. Re-
lated some of her recollections of the Pro-
phet Joseph. Said he was childlike in
demeanor, but was a lion to evil-doers.
Called attention to the fulfillment of his
prophecies, and also the prediction of Prest.
Woodruff at the dedication of the Salt Lake
Temple. She was interested in the signs
of the times and in the progress of woman’s
work.
	Prest. Nancy Acord felt the good influ-
ence of the meeting and realized the benefits
of the sisters conference. Thought if we
knew each other better we should love each
other more.
	Bishop C. A. Madsen testified to the good
spirit prevailing in the meeting. Invoked
the blessing of Heaven upon the sisters,
that their good works might continue, in-
crease and multiply.
	Bishop Andrew Heldtsedt of the new ward
of Centerfield had been much strengthened
by the testimonies and good words of the
sisters. Testified that in his experience the
more we had to do in forwarding the work,
the more joy and contentment we have.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Guide us O Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Benediction by Elder Austin
Kearns.

	On Saturday morning a branch of the
Relief Society was organized in the new
ward of Centerfield, formerly known as
Gunnison Field, with Sister Hyams as
president. On Saturday afternoon a very
interesting meeting was held in Manti. The
speakers were Sisters Hyde and Horne,
Sister Johnson of Fountain Green, and also
Prest. Maiben and Prest. McAllister.
			A. L. Cox, Act. Cor. Sec.
SUMMIT STAKE.
	MINUTES of the semi-annual conference
of Summit Stake Relief Society held in
Peoa schoolhouse, Sep. 7, 1897, President
Mary J. Atwood presiding. Meeting was
opened by singing “We thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” Prayer by Bishop Stephen
Walker. Singing from Sunday School
Hymn book. Present on the stand were
Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth M. Pack,
President W. W. Cluff of the Stake and
Counselor Edmond Eldredge, several
Bishops and others. Minutes of conference
held at Hoytsville read and accepted; roll
called and six presidents and one counselor
responded. Verbal reports of the seven
branches given as in good condition, hold-
ing their religious meetings regularly once
a month, performing all duties pertaining
to the Relief Society in general with a good
spirit manifest.
	Counselor Ruth M. Pack said “This is a
good place to sit and think over the past
few weeks of our lives and see how we
stand, and to think of the Prophet Joseph,
the great work he laid the foundation for,
the Gospel of Jesus Christ, this is what has
brought us here to the valleys of the moun-
tains. We have passed through many
trials. I remember while camped on Sugar
Creek there were nine children born in one
night. The ground was covered with
snow and it was very cold, there was great
suffering but the Lord watched over his
people.”


[Column 2]
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased to see so many of the brethren
present also President Cluff, she liked to
hear the presidents report the different
branches, we know what kind of a spirit
they manifest and how they feel. She
thought it a good thing to hold our confer-
ences in different wards, it gave many a
chance to attend that could not otherwise
do so and encouraged them to good works.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson of Salt Lake 
City said she had learned to do. as she was
told. “Sisters Zina Young and Emmeline
B. Wells send kindly greetings to you sis-
ters in this conference today. They have a
desire for your welfare. The Prophet
Joseph organized this Society himself after
the pattern of the Holy Priesthood. I say
to my young brothers and sisters live hon
est, virtuous lives while you are raising
your families, that they may be noble sons
and daughters. Teach them true princi-
ples, call your children together and bow
down with them in prayer and call down
the rich blessings of the Lord upon you.
For fifteen years I was a teacher in the
Relief Society, I would go humble and
prayerful and talk to the sisters. I am
pleased to see so many young sisters present,
come with your mothers, help them visit
the sick, read to them and cheer them,
your young faces will do them good. We
want the sisters to save up all the wheat
they can, we want you to be earnest in this
matter. I hope the spirit of your calling
may rest upon you.”
	President Mary J. Atwood said she was
pleased with Sister Stevenson’s remarks,
let us improve by them. We all want good
boys, let us teach them to be virtuous and
respect themselves. If they have the
Priesthood conferred upon them they should
be pure and virtuous men.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing “Glorious things o’ thee are
spoken.” Benediction by Bishop Wright.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened 
by singing “Stars of morning” Prayer
by Willet S. Ha[-]der. Singing “Now let
us rejoice” etc.
	Counselor Ann Cluff said she was pleased
to meet with her sisters and was pleased
with the advice given to the teachers. We
should all be willing to give of our means
to the Society. If the fathers would help
teach our sons the principles of the Gospel
we might have many more bright young
men. “You cannot do better than send
your children to the Church schools that
they may be fitted to fill responsible posi-
tions and be taught true principles. I ask
the Lord to bless us all.”
	The Stake officers of the Relief Society
were sustained, the vote being unanimous.
The officers of the various branches as they
now stand were sustained unanimously.
Sister Stevenson spoke a short time. She
said: “Our salvation is individual, we each
have to work for ourselves. I am pleased
to see so many brethren present, if they
understood the benefit their wives received
from these meetings they would be anxious
for them to attend. Our sisters are better
just as the brothers are better for attending
the priesthood meetings. Sisters make
your homes pleasant and happy to induce
our husbands and sons to spend their time
at home. By doing good to others we do
good to ourselves. Sister Eliza R. Snow
always advised semi-monthly meetings, al-
ways open and close your meetings on time,
be punctual. Never go in debt, always

[Column 2]
have the pleasure of spending what is your
own. Sisters take the EXPONENT and
encourage this work, it is our paper and
the sisters should take it. I ask all bless-
ings in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Lillie Freeze of the Y. L. M. I. A.
from Salt Lake City, said, “It is natural
for me to do what I have to do with all my
strength. The spirit of revelation and the
Kingdom of God are so widely spreading
it takes all, both young and old to fill these
duties. I have been called to travel among
my sisters and to encourage them in their
labors of love. Be patient with those child-
ren who are wayward, be kind to them and
pray for them, instil the principles of the
Gospel in their minds and after awhile they
will settle down and seek after righteous-
ness. I pray the Spirit may give you my
remarks in the same spirit I give them to
you, for it is my desire to do you good. I
ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	President W. W. Cluff said, “I can truly
say I am pleased to be with you and pleas-
ed with the remarks that have been made.
approve of the instructions of Sister
Stevenson for the young sisters to join the
Relief Society as soon as they are married
The education of our children commences
at birth and continues through life. Many
of us may regret that we have not been
more thorough in the education of our sons
in the principles of the Gospel, let us en-
courage them, then there will be any
amount of young men to fill responsible
positions and we will be proud of them. May
this be our happy lot and may the blessings
of God be with you.”
	Bishop S. F. Atwood gave the sisters
good advice in regard to the care and the
health of their children. He was pleased
with the remarks and the good spirit mani-
fest during the conference.
	President Mary J. Atwood made a few
closing remarks. Was pleased with the
arrangements made to make us so comfortble.
	Singing from the Sunday School Hymn
book.  Conference adjourned to meet at
Rockport the first Tuesday in May 1898.
Benediction by Edmond Eldredge.
