NOTES AND NEWS.

	TWENTY-FIVE Bulgarian women are
studying medicine at the Faculty of Nancy
in France. 
	“WHEN the Women’s College in Luck-
now is finished, it will be the finest educa-
tional building in India.”
	THE campaign in South Dakota was be-
gun in October, with a series of two-day
county conventions, under the auspices of
the National Organization Committee, to be
held in the most important counties.
	MRS. ANNIE M. MACLEAN, a graduate,
of Acadia University, Nova Scotia, took
the degree of Master of Philosophy at the
University of Chicago in July. Miss Mc-
Lean is the first Canadian woman to take a
higher degree from this university. Her
thesis was on ‘‘Factory Legislation for Wo-
men in the United States.”
	A MEDALLION of Miss Anthony, prepared
by the Rochester Club, is nine inches in
diameter, made of delicately-tinted plaster.
The reproduction is excellent, the feature's
clear and accurate, and the medallion an
ornament that would adorn any home.
They may be obtained for $1.50, express
paid, of Mrs. F. N. West, 9 Averil-Place,
Rochester, N. Y.


THE sudden death of Mary Kyle Dallas
of New York, about three weeks ago, was a
shock and a sorrow to a host of friends and
admirers. For many years she was a con-
tributor to the New York Ledger at a large
salary, and also wrote short stories for
Lippincott. Latterly her work has been 
seen in the daily papers, and her essays on
women for the American Press Association
commanded wide attention. Mrs. Dallas
was a member of Sorosis, the vice-presi-
dent of the Woman’s Press Club, and a
prominent member of the “Hidden Hand
Club,” whose purpose is to expose the fake
advertisements which prove a snare and a
delusion to unsuspecting women. Mrs.
Dallas was tall with a beautiful, aristocratic
face and stately bearing, while her manners
were so gracious and her acts so kindly that
she endeared herself to all who knew her.
She was fifty years of age, and began to
write at the age of eight, when she com-
posed a play that was produced in her
father’s kitchen. In 1888 she estimated
that she had written and sold at least eight
thousand stories and as many sketches.


