SARAH JEREMY WILLIAMS.
	Sunday morning August 22, 1897, the spirit of
Sister Sarah Jeremy Williams passed to the other
world. She was born August 11, 1819, in Llane-
gwad Parish, Carmarthen Co., South Wales.
	She was the daughter of Thomas Jeremy and
Sarah Evans, and the widow of Evan William.
	Sister Williams was a true convert to the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ and throughout her life lived
as a consistent Latter-day Saint. She was among
the first in her neighborhood to believe in the
divine mission of Joseph Smith and was baptized
June 20, 1848.
	When she left Wales for America, April 9, 1861,
her husband and family were not members of the
the Church but upon their arrival in Florence,
Nebraska. June 10, 1861, Brother W[-]lliams and
three of the children were baptized by Apostle
Geo. Teasdale.
	While in Florence Sister Williams had a very
severe sick spell and for a time her life was des-
paired of, but she recovered and proceeded on
her journey and reached the valley in September.
On this journey she buried two children, one in
Florence and one near Green river.
	Sis[-]er Williams was a truly chria[-]able woman,
as many in Wales as well as here can testify. Her
greatest pleasure was in relieving the wants
of the needy. She identified herself with
the Relief Society very soon after reaching Utah
and for a great many years she was an active and
energetic worker in the 16th Ward Relief Society,
filling the office of a teacher to the entire sa[-]ls-
faction of the officers of that ward. The poor on
the block where she labored can testify to the
faithfulness of her labors, and they feel that they
have indeed lost a kind friend.
	Sister Williams was a refined and intelligent
woman, a loving and patient wife and mother,
being exceptionally devo[-]ed to her family and a
true and sympathizing friend. She was greatly
blessed in that she retained her health and
strength and the possession of her faculties up to
her 78th birthday, on which day she was taken


sick and eleven days later passed away surround
ed by all of her chidren.
	Sis'er Williams death is sincerely mourned by
family and friends. She was the mother of eight
children. Her living posterity is six children,
forty-one grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.
	She lived and died in full faith in the Gospel
and joyful anticipation of a glorious resurrection.
							C. S. W.


