REFLECTIONS OF A PIONEER.

How often are we told that faith is a gift
of God. If so when was it given? My
faith has been from early childhood when
first taught to repeat my evening prayer,
which is simply this:
"Now I lay me down to sleep,I pray the Lord my
soul to ke[-]p,''
If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my
soul to take,
And this I ask for Jesus sake."
Surely impressions made in youth are
more lasting, the mind then being like a

[Column 2]
sheet of white paper and impressions are
clear, not confused.
A little later when I was at school our
Testament class would read immediately
after prayer. This was over seventy years
ago, but it was the custom in all our schools
in the state of New York.
In this book, the New Testament, we
find the Savior taught His disciples to pray
saying: “Our Father who art in heaven
hallowed be Thy name; Thy kingdom
come and Thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven” etc. How beautiful, is it not?
And would not this strengthen our faith?
Could we doubt there was a God in heaven
who could see us and hear our prayers?
Then how important that this impression be
made in childhood by precept and example,
for the Lord’s prayer was not made in vain.
Oh no, that time must and will come when
His will must be done on earth as it is in
heaven.
Then the question arises, How will this
time come and when will it come? Think
a moment. Do not we find in the Old
Testament in the book of Genesis that this
earth was made in seven days, and the
Lord finished His work on the seventh day
and rested? Did not the Prophet Moses
require the children of Israel to keep the
seventh day holy, and the seventh year was
a jubilee when freedom must be given to
any who were oppressed? If the seventh
year will bring such a jubilee, what will
seven thousand bring? I think the first
chapter in the Acts of the Apostles tells us
what we may expect at that time.
We read in the 1st chapter, beginning at
the 8th verse to the 12th: “Ye shall receive
power after the Holy Ghost is given unto
you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me un-
to the uttermost parts of the earth.
“And while speaking a cloud received
Him out of their sight, and while looking
steadfastly toward heaven as He went up,
behold two men stood by Him in white ap-
parel and said, ‘Ye men of Galilee why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall
come in like manner as ye see Him go up’ "
Is not this testimony sufficient for us?
And when He comes will it not be in the
seventh thousand year, the Sabbath of crea-
tion, or in other words the Milleneum,
when He will come to reign King of kings,
and Lord of lords?
Now the question is will we be prepared
for this great event? The Prophet Joseph
Smith tells us that Jesus must find exactly
such a people here as those He brings with
Him. The same character, the same faith
and one with Him in all things. Now who
is sent to prepare the way for this great
event, can you tell me? Has any one or-
ganized a church exactly as the one which
Jesus built, with twelve apostles, elders,
priests and deacons, also seventies as you
read in Luke 10th chapter, 1st verse. “The
Lord appointed other seventies also and sent
them two. and two into every place where
He Himself would come.” In the 7th verse
we read: “The seventies returned with joy,
saying, Lord even the devils are subject to
us through Thy name.”
He then tells them what He saw and in the
20th verse He says: “Notwithstanding, in
this rejoice not that the spirits are subject to
you, but rather rejoice that your names are
written in heaven.”
He had gained the victory, they were
only obedient to His laws. Now is not this
a lesson to us to be obedient to His laws?

[Column 3]
for they are perfect and will perfect all who
give strict heed to them.
And He says: “Take my yoke upon
you and learn of me, for my yoke is easy
and my burden is light.” With His holy
spirit it is joyful and light also, but without
it, it would not be so I can assure you.
Please excuse me when I say that this
Pioneer feels an anxious desire that the
youth may see the Gospel in its own true
light, which when accomplished will fill
their souls with light and joy and peace, it
being the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Com-
forter. May we be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of this good spirit, for it must
have a pure heart to inhabit, it will not ac-
cept any other. This being the faith of the
Saints I hope the parents and guardians
may not lose sight of this important subject,
but teach the youth to grow in grace and a
knowledge of the truth.
These are the views of a pioneer, and of
all the Saints are they not? Then we will
be worthy to be called Saints. How desira-
ble. Let us not be weary in well doing for
in due time we shall reap if we faint not.

