THE LATE ELECTION.

	So many stirring events have transpired
within the last few days that one is at a loss
to select from among them those most not-
able of record. The municipal election was
one worthy of attention and of serious con-
sideration; a new feature of the occasion
was the non-partisan movement made by
prominent citizens for the purpose of reform
in the city government. Great pains was
taken by leading citizens both men and wo-
men to disseminate information in regard to
the condition of affairs under party admin-
istration, and though the non-partisans did
not elect the entire ticket nominated, yet
the people had an object lesson that will be
servicable in time to come
	The outlook at any rate is more hopeful
than it would have been if no movement
for a reform in this regard had been made.
Better men have been selected possibly and
more thoughtfulness exercised in the mat-
ter of voting. The women of the city have
had another opportunity to exercise the
franchise, and when one is aware of the
large percentage of women voters in this
city it is very strange that neither of the
women nominees were elected. It is our
opinion that the women whose names were
on the tickets, Non-Partisan, Republican and
Democrati were as well qualified to fill the
offices as the men who were the contestants
and were elected. These women were all
reliable, conscientious and suitable as can-
didates.
	The officers for the city government for
the ensuing term are Mayor, John Clark, N.
P. Recorder, H. Backman, D. Trea-
surer, Richard P. Morris, D. Attorney, W.
C. Hall, D. Police Justice, J. B. Timmony,
D. Auditor, George Swan, N. P. Council-
men there were four Non-Partisans, three
Republicans and eight Democrats.
	This variety of parties is better necessa-
rily than if all were of one political faith,
and the men are very likely to watch each
other pretty close and with the educational
teaching recently given on the platform and
in various other ways public and private—
the community will be on the alert to see
how things go; they are not at all likely to
forget the warnings that have been given,
and they have suffered enough from mis-
management in the past to be on their
guard in the future against intrigue and
corruption in city affairs. At any rate we
should look on the bright side if possible,
and believing there is a strong and safe man
at the helm, trust he will set things right


and maintain such dignity as will keep
others in countenance, that the city may
look with pride upon its new officials.


[Column 1]
