WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]	
	PRENATAL INFLUENCES.
	IN all ages and among all people the idea
has prevailed that prenatal conditions have
wielded a mighty power in forming the in-
tellectual, moral and physical nations of
mankind. In our own time as well as
from the dim voices of the past we learn
how strong is the belief in maternal impres-
sions. We know how deformities, birth-
marks and various diseases are charged by
mothers to conditions which operated dur-
ing the period of gestation. Religion, his-
tory and science all testify that prenatal in-
fluence is all powerful in forming the char-
acters and dispositions of human beings.
	The scriptures tell us that “The sins of the
fathers shall be visited upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation.” Num.
14th chapter, 18th verse. And in Genesis, 3rd
chapter we read: “And Jacob took him
rods of green poplar and of the hazel and
chestnut trees, and peeled white streaks in
them and made the white appear which was
in the rods. And he set the rods which he
had peeled before the flocks in the gutters
in the watering troughs where the flocks
came to drink that they should conceive
when they came to drink.
	And the flocks conceived before
the rods and brought forth cattle, ring-
streaked, speckled and spotted.”
	History profane and sacred abounds with
numerous examples testifying to the poten-
cy of prenatal power. Napoleon I. doubtless
was made the general he was from the fact
that his mother spent the greater part of
her time on horseback during his prenatal
period. She was a woman of great courage
and accompanied her husband through the
campaign with Paoli in 1790. During this
time she was in constant peril and danger,
and not only surrounded with but intensely
engaged in all the pomp and circumstance
of war and in this way not only became
familiar with the horrors of war, but also
became reconciled to it and in a measure
enjoyed it. This being so it could not pos-
sibly be otherwise that in her son was im-
planted that indomitable spirit, that un-
bounded ambition and passion for warlike
pursuits that in its exercise did not stop
short of the subjugation of the world.
	The prenatal life of the poet Burns, our
own Garfield, Lincoln and many others
might be given showing how each one was
endowed with those gifts and national quali-
fications enabling him to occupy the posi-
tion in the world’s history which he did.
	Scientific writers without number most
positively assert that not only the physical
nature of the child, its beauty of face and
form, but that its mental and moral facul-
ties are materially influenced by conditions
existing before its birth. Indeed they go
farther and say that idiocy, insanity, imbe-
cility, drunkenness and many criminal in-
stincts are transmitted from parent to child
by strong mental emotions, immoral and
wholly incorrect habits of life.
	Dr. Henry Maudsley in his excellent
work on Body and Mind says: “Perhaps
of all erroneous notions concerning mind

[Column 2]
which metaphysics’ has engendered or abet-
ted, there is none more false than that
which tacitly assumes, or explictly declares
that men are born with equal original men-
tal capacity, opportunities and education
determining the difference of subsequent
development.
	The opinion is as cruel as it is false.
What man can by taking thought add one
cubit either to his mental or his bodily
stature? Multitudes of human beings
come into the world weighted with a des-
tiny against which they have neither the
will nor the power to contend, they are the
step-children of Nature and groan under
the worst of all tyrannies, the tyranny of a
bad organization. Men differ indeed in the
fundamental character of their minds as
they do in the features of their countenances,
or in the habits of their bodies, and between
those who are born with the potentialty of a
full and complete mental development, un-
der favorable circumstances, and those who
are born with an innate incapacity of men-
tal development under any circumstances
there exists every graduation What teach-
ing could ever raise the congenital idiot to
the common level of human intelligence?
What teaching could ever keep the inspired
mind of the man of genius at that level?
	The congenital idiot is deprived of his
human birthright, for he is born with such
a defect of brain that he cannot display any,
or can only display very feeble and imper-
fect mental functions. From no fault of
his own is he thus afflicted, seeing that he
must be held innocent of all offence but the
offence of his share in the original sin; but
it is nowise so clear that it is not from some
fault of his parents. It is all too true that
in many cases there has observsbly beeh a
neglect or disregard of the laws which
govern the progress of human development
through the ages.
	Idiocy is indeed a manufactured article,
and although we are not always able to tell
how it is manufactured, still the important
causes are known and are within control.
Many cases are distinctly tracable to parent-
al intemperance and excess. Out of three
hundred idiots in Mass. Dr. Howe found as
many as one hundred and forty-five to be
the offspring of intemperate parents, and
there were numerous scattered observations
which prove that chronic alcoholism in the
parent may directly occasion idiocy in the
child.”
	Thus we find that physoligists admit
and observations prove that the maternal
emotions do effect the exterior of the foetus,
and likewise may the mental development
be altered in its complex and delicate or-
ganization. The mind influences and mod-
ifies the body in ways unexplained.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
Midwifery Classes. 
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT com-
mences a class in midwifery every
six months immediately after the 
semi-annual conference. Special
courses of three months to mid-
wives who have been in practice.
Special terms given to students sent
by any Relief Society. For par-
ticulars please address Romania B.
Pratt, Constitution Bldg. Main St.,
Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
Mrs Kate Bridgwell Anderson’
	Formerly of New Orleans, and re-
cently of Ogden, has opened a vocal
Studio in Unity Hall, 28 W. Third
South. Operatic repertoire a special-
ty. Hours from 10 until 2 p.m., ex-
cept Wednesdays and Saturdays.

