RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE October general conference of the
Relief Society was held in the large Taber-
nacle in this city October 7, commencing
at 10 a. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presid-
ing. Of the general officers present there
were besides the president, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Counselors; E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, secretaries; M. I.
Horne, treasurer. Quite a number of presi-
dents of the Relief Society Stake organiza-
tions were present and a fair-sized congrega-
tion. Meeting opened by singing “We
thank Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer
by Elder Lucius A. Snow. Singing “O My
Father. Roll called, 22 presidents and
representatives present. Minutes of April
conference read and approved.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke a few
minutes and welcomed the sisters affection-
ately; told the sisters she loved them as
well as she was capable of loving, and ap-
preciated their labors and works of charity
and love. She remembered very well when
President Young first spoke of building the
Tabernacle in which we were holding con-
ference, heard him talk with the brethren
about it and tell them his plans. She also
referred to his putting his cane down into
the ground and saying here is the very spot
where the Temple and Tabernacle will be
built. Sister Young also described some of
her feelings when she entered into the or-
der of celestial marriage, felt that she was
renouncing the world and laying her all up


[Column 1]
on the altar, sacrificing everything. Felt
now that the Lord had blest her abundantly
for the course she took. She bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel and
the mission of Joseph the prophet; and
added that she felt happy in seeing the faces
of the sisters gathered in the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey, of Bear Lake
Stake, made a good representation. She had
felt as if they were a little behind, but since
coming and hearing from other places
thought differently. She with some of her
board had visited once a year around the
Stake and some of the nearer branches
oftener, they had long distances to travel
in visiting. Reported that they were saving
up money for a reserve fund, she enjoyed
her labors, never enjoyed anything so much
	President Emma J. Bennett, of Bingham
Stake, said the Relief Society presidency
were always invited to go around the Stake
with the presiding brethren, they went in
wagons and by train. Felt there was no
greater work than the one we are engaged
in, and spoke of the laying up of grain—
they had 1800 bushels now and expected to
have more this harvest. Knew the sisters
had been blest in the work of the Society,
and felt happy in her labors.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Bannock
Stake, reported all in good condition. They
had one new branch organized recently in
Anaconda, Montana. They had to travel a
distance of 600 miles around in visiting the
branches, “and we go once a year always
and do all we possibly can to encourage the
sisters and promote union and good feeling,
we have a good band of willing and faithful
sisters.”
	President Elizabeth Fox, Oneida Stake,
said she had not been very well but felt im-
proved in health since she came down to
the General Conference, believed it was a
little relaxation to get away from cares.
Spoke upon the grain question and of the
organization in Baker City, Oregon. Bore
a good testimony of the Gospel and alluded
to her experiences in the Church.
	President Kittie E. Dixon, of Star Valley
Stake, reported all the branches in compara-
tively good condition, all feeling well in the
work and enjoying a good spirit; she felt
the work was progressing and the sisters
making the best use of their opportunities.
They had to travel fifty and sixty miles to
visit but were always welcomed and
enjoyed seeing the sisters.
	President Mabel A. Hakes, of Maricopa
Stake, gave a good report, said the sisters
had assisted in building the Stake Taber-
nacle and furnishing it, and had bought a
silver sacramental service. She thought
we would laugh if we knew how they tried
to store grain in five gallon tin cans, related
some of their experiences. An Indian sis-
ter had admonished them that to pray more
in time of sickness and have more faith
would lessen the sickness, and give them
more time to go to meeting; but after the
death of her child she felt to rebel and said
she didn’t know as she cared for the Lord.
The Indians preserve wheat in baskets and
cement it over, there are 1300 Indians in
Maricopa Stake and only 1800 white people.
	President Mary B. Eyring, of Juarez
Stake, Mexico, made an excellent represen-
tation felt the sisters improved in a tem-
poral way, there were not many who had
to be provided for, and they had the neces-
saries of life if they had not the luxuries.
Sister Eyring talked about silk culture in a
very practical way, they have a fine cli-

[Column 2]
mate, never so hot or so cold as St. George,
and they had peace, great peace. One
Mexican woman among them could speak
good English, yet she did not say they im-
proved as Sister Hakes had said of Marico-
pa. They are polite and always say good
morning etc., and never go out of the house
without speaking; the sisters hold meetings
twice a month, a certain few attend and
the others take it easy.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp felt it a great honor
to speak to the sisters who had come from a
distance, was glad to hear their remarks.
Dwelt principally upon nursing and mid-
wifery, thought there were not sisters well
trained in some branches in the settlements
of Zion, hoped the sisters would take the
matter under advisement and see to it that
a sufficient number were trained in these
things, that the sick need not suffer for
suitable help. Spoke of the sick children
and advised simple remedies.
	President Jane S. Richards followed Dr.
Shipp and related some of her experiences
with children. She had enjoyed hearing
from far-off places, thought when we heard
of sisters visiting to such distant localities it
was a testimony to us of the truth of the
work in which we are engaged; she believed
in making work for those who needed help
and were able to work, it would keep them
from evil, urged the sisters to take better care
of their girls, also to teach their sons as
well as their daughters to come up by de-
grees and arrive at a higher point in time,
not go ahead too fast. Sister Young had
given her a text to speak upon but felt it
was too late. There may be boys and girls
who would take places to work and earn
means, instead of having it given to them.
“I am a friend to poor people, and we all
know they are to inherit the kingdom.” Re-
lated some incidents in reference to getting
employment for boys, spoke of our all
coming to this valley poor and having to
work for what we obtained. Sister Rich-
ards blest the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in the name of Jesus. Singing
Doxology. Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
Benediction by Sister B. W. Smith. 
	AFTERNOON SESSION: President Zina
D. H. Young presiding. Singing “Now
let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer by President
Susan Grant. President Sarah M. Kimball
was the first speaker, she prayed that some-
thing might be said beneficial to the Soci-
ety, and remarked that a president of one of
the Stakes of Zion had said we were raising
a set of tramps, wondered how far the Re-
lief Society was responsible for these things.
She recalled that the first thing the first
president of the Society, Sister Emma
Smith, did, and Joseph’s instructions to the
Society were to find employment for the
poor who had to be kept by the Society.
“There will come a time when we shall be
brought nearer to each other in this respect
than we are now.” She sometimes thought
of Heber C. Kimball when he said, “If the
Lord could afford it he could.” Sister Kim-
ball had been very much exercised upon
this matter and felt it was a serious one,
and should be dealt with in a practical way
by which habits of industry would be
taught and practised.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was glad to see
so many present and had been pleased with
the reports in the morning session, thought
the Society had grown and become very
great when everywhere that there are Lat-
ter-day Saints we can have an organization

[Column 3]
of the Society. Thought that we had al-
ways tried to devise means for those who
needed help and were able to work and
earn something for themselves. Felt that
we were training ourselves to live perfect
and to purify ourselves so as to be prepared
for the millennium; knew that the poor
were the ones who paid tithing urged the
sisters to do the duties nearest and to im-
prove in every good thing, and not to neg-
lect their Temple work.
	President M. Isabella Horne felt we had
had a most enjoyable conference, spoke of
the long distance some had traveled to at-
tend conference, two thousand miles; stated
that it was fifty-five years last March since
the sisters were organized, now we were
known in almost every land. Speaking of
the large number of poor to be provided
for she mentioned that in some wards there
were as many as two hundred dependent or
pratically so, some there were one hundred, in
others fifty; those who live in the country
do not know how hard it is for us to take
care of so many dependent upon charity.
Bishops and brethren in the country have
so much to do and are not able to get suf-
ficient help; if some of those in the city who
need work would go out into the country
and get work instead of living off other peo-
ple it would be better all around. She felt
most of the branches in Salt Lake Stake
were doing very well and were stirred up to
their duties in saving grain, referred to the
conditions in the world and bore testimony
concerning Joseph the prophet and the Lat-
ter-day work.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake, said
it was her first visit to the city in eight
years: had enjoyed the time very much, in
the Stake where she presided they had two
conferences in a year and traveled around
twice a year, they had eleven hundred
bushels of grain and two granaries and in-
tended building more; the branches in
Uintah were very scattering, they had to
travel a hundred and sixty five miles to
visit; rejoiced in the spirit of the work and
felt to press on and try to encourage others.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt testified that she felt edi-
fied and built up in attending the General
conference and also in the Relief Society
conference. The Society had been a great
blessing as well as a great labor, felt we
should use every effort possible in the way
of progress. Urged the young sisters to
study and become acquainted with their
own organism and the general principle of
hygiene, it would make every woman a
greater blessing to herself, to her fam-
ily and to the community, and she would
be able to do more good in all places; felt as
a people we should advocate these things
more, that no ward or settlement should be
without efficient nurses and educated pract-
tioners, that much suffering might be saved.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon silk cul-
ture as employment for those who needed
to be helped, the practical adaptation of it in
our climate, the results already achieved, also
spoke of sustaining our own home literature
and especially the need we had for making
our own representation in this way, men-
tioned other matters and dwelt earnestly
upon the need of younger women interest-
ing themselves in charitable and philan-
thropic labors.
	President E. S. Taylor spoke very forci-
bly upon the need of the sisters sustaining
the “Exponent,” made some definite points
in favor of the paper and the wide field
there was for home literature of this kind,


realized that it had been a blessing in many
ways, made other excellent remarks and
bore a good testimony of the labors of the
sisters in the Relief Society.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
“Exponent,” the need of the sisters sus-
taining it and urged them to subscribe.
Spoke of Joseph’s teachings to the Society,
his prophecy with regard to the great work
the sisters would do and felt his words were
being fulfilled now. Blest the sisters as-
sembled and felt they would go home
stronger spiritually and be able to administer
in their own wards to the sisters, and grow
wiser and better.
	Elder L. John Nuttall exhorted the sis-
ters to make some exertion in reference to
employment and referred to the bnreau of
labor established ih this city at the April
conference, said our condition is much bet-
ter now; Bishop Preston has charge of this
business and is prepared to find employ-
ment. Spoke also of the “Exponent” and
urged the sisters to do as much as possible
to sustain it, made some definite suggestions
for their action in the matter. Brother
Nuttall referred to the course of instruction
to secretaries in keeping their books that
was decided upon at the conference in April,
thought, that the officers of the Stake
should make arrangements to have all the
several branch officers assemble in some
two or three places in the Stake and get the
necessary information that there might be a
uniform system in the matter of book keep-
ing, then we would be prepared at any time
to have our books examined. Brother Nut-
tall was willing to give the needful instruc-
tion, and to travel in any of the Stakes with
the president when arrangements could be
made; spoke of the grain and that the priest-
hood were with the sisters in this matter,
and the wheat was not to be interfered with
but left until needed.
	President Jane S. Richards stated briefly
the word she had received from the Presi-
dency in regard to changing old wheat for
new, and getting interest on it because it
would shrink. Bishop Hunter had said if it
were well taken care of it would keep many
years. Sister Richards dwelt upon charity
and kindness to the poor and to each other,
felt there was much to make us sorrowful
and we needed kind words, and to be for-
giving to each other. We should pray for
Sister Zina, we want her to be strong; also
explained about the book keeping. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Conference adjourned un-
til April. Benediction by Sister M. I.
Horne.
