EDITORIAL NOTES.

	RECENTLY women have been serving as
jurors in the state of Idaho, and it is said they
were a success, the press correspondence says
much in their favor, we quote: “The wo-
men jurors in Idaho have made a good be-
ginning. They have demonstrated that
they know what substantial justice is. It
is said the “substantial justice” was at the
expense of precedent. It has always seemed
proper for women to act as jurors and in
Wyoming according to testimony of those
acquainted with the facts, women were suc-
cessful jurists as well as judges; and if there
why not elsewhere. At any rate it is de-
voutly to be hoped they would do as well or
better than in some recent cases in Utah
where men only were on the jury. Men
and women in almost every matter where
wisdom and good judgment are required
do the best work where both have equal
opportunity.
	AT the residence of Dr. C. F. Wilcox on
Thursday, October 26, a very pleasant
party of old friends and acquaintances met
together by invitation of Mrs. Wilcox and
passed an agreeable afternoon and evening.
The conversation was mostly reminiscent,
varied somewhat by current topics of the
day. The five o’clock tea was a delightful
part of the entertainment, delicious viands
served in the most appetizing style, and
withal the usual easy table-talk which
among such dear friends is exceptionally
wholesome. After tea there was some
music and a few words “fitly spoken” by
Sister Zina who expected to leave the city
soon on a visit to her daughter in Canada;
then the hymn “O My Father” was sung
and social chat indulged in for a short time.
The guests were Sisters Zina D. H. Young,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Mary Ellen Kimball, Maria Burton, Mar-
garet P. Young, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Maria W. Wilcox, Elizabeth J. Stevenson,
Lucy W. Kimball, E. B. Wells and Elder
Ezra Stevenson. These with the young 
Doctor and his amiable wife made fourteen
at table instead of the superstitious thirteen.
The party was in every respect a success
except for the absent ones who had been
expected, Sisters M. I. Horne, J. C. Howe
and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Such delightful
occasions cement the bonds of love and
sympathy and make us feel to do as Shake-
speare has so truly said—
“The fri[-]nds thou hast, and their adoption tried
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel.”
	AN anniversary meeting of the Relief
Society of Lehi was held on Monday Oct.
24, in the hall of the Society, Mrs. Rebecca
Standring presiding. The president, after
the opening exercises, referred briefly to
the work of the Society since its organiza-
tion and the results numerically, financially,
charitable and spiritual. The Society was
organized twenty-nine years ago, and at
that time there were in all nineteen mem-
bers enrolled including the five officers, and
during the time which has elapsed since the
number has increased to over three hun-
dred; then they had a few carpet rags and
patches for quilts, now they own a very
nice, comfortable hall and two granaries,
also hundreds of bushels of grain and much

[Column 2]
other merchandise, have on hand some
cash and sundries etc. The labor of cloth-
ing and feeding the needy, and caring for
the sick and dying, and doing all kinds of
charitable work, comforting the mourner
and those bowed down with sorrow, and all
that is included in being a help in every
time of need, all these the good sisters of
Lehi have done and have never failed.
The growth and development of members
of the Society in the intellectual progress
cannot be over-estimated, and the advan-
tages and benefits afforded to women who
labor in this Society are not appreciated
nor can they be until one is fully initiated
in the work practically. President Mary
John of Utah Stake, and her counselor,
Marilla Daniels, were in Lehi to attend the
meeting and also the writer from Salt Lake
City. Many subjects of interest were spok-
en upon and Bishop Cutler gave good coun-
sel and encouragement to the sisters, dwell-
ing emphatically upon home industries,
and giving some potent facts. The remarks
of President John and President Standring,
also Sister Daniels and others were stimu-
lating and inspiring, and Sisters H. Jacobs
and Jones who had recently returned from
visiting in England and Wales each gave a
sketch of her experience while away which
was very interesting. There were two
meetings, morning and afternoon, and
much good instruction was given that can-
not fail to help the work along. Sister
Melissa Willis, a veteran in the Church and
in the Society was present in the afternoon
and bore a strong testimony. The Society
in Lehi is not a whit behind any other and
is in a very prosperous condition. We feel
to congratulate Sister Standring, the very
able president, on her labors and the success
attending them, and the entire band of sis-
ters united in the grand and noble work of
caring for the meek and humble of the
earth.


