COLORADO.

	WEDNESDAY, July 28, early in the fore-
noon I left Salt Lake City in company with
my brother, Carlos Stevens, and nephew,
Walter C. Howell, we arrived Thursday 29
at Hooper, Colorado, after riding five and a
half miles by team, came to the residence of
the family of Mrs. Brown, my niece, after
a happy greeting retired to rest for the
night.
	The few following days were fully occu-
pied in considering the many unwritten
chapters of our lives and in anticipation of
some of the coming events, and in viewing
of the large fields of 160 to 320 acres now
being harvested, mostly of oats and wheat
six and eight feet high, yielding from
twenty-five to forty bushels per acre. This
valley I visited two years ago, and the re-
sult of that visit has brought a very happy-
fying reflection, even to the probability of
others of my kindred immigrating. August
7, left in company with my brother and
after traveling thirty miles to Monte Vista,
Rio Grande Co., staid over night with my
nephew, B. F. Stevens. Then after a long
day ’s travel over a very stony ridge of about
thirty miles, arrived at Richmond, haying
passed Lajara (pronounced Lahara, a small
town situated on the railroad) here we were
kindly entertained over night by Bishop
Coombs. The rough road necessitated our
having a couple of shoes put on our horse
which the Bishop did himself. Then after
traveling six miles further arrived at Man-
assa, stopping at President Alma R. Smith’s
(son of Silas) found Apostle John W.
Taylor seated in council with a company of
Elders who were reporting their visits and
receiving additional daily appointments he
took me by the arm and introduced the to
them as one of the best sisters in the Church.
I felt a little out of place with the prefix,
but like many other agreeable things it was
easily passed by, but this was supplement-
ed with a note signed by John W. Taylor
after arriving at Sister Haskell’s while eat-
ing dinner, that he wanted me to meet
promptly at 5:30 that day, Monday 9, as he
wanted to give me a mission. I replied, all
right, and at the stated time I was seated
with six other sisters of the place and
Elders, we received our appointments and
went to work. Having lost my notes I
shall have to depend upon my memory as
to dates and other matters. 
	Tues. 10, the Bishop gave a dinner to the
visiting sisters and Elders. Wednesday eve.
9th a company of carriages drove six miles
to Mountain View to a school house that
stood as a lone sentinel on the surrounding
plain. We were about the first to arrive,
at rather a late hour the house was filled
with all grades from grandfather to babe.
The speakers were in the following order:
Brothers Graham and Mann, myself, Sister
Haskell and John W. Taylor. We then
returned to Manassa at 12, midnight. 
	Thursday 12, did some visiting as per ap-
pointment. Then we, including seven car-
riages full, drove 20 miles to East Dale.
Held a meeting in the evening, perfect


[Column 1]
freedom prevailed. The speakers were 
Prof. Brimhall of Provo B. Y. Academy,
then Brother Taylor suggested that the
meeting be turned into a testimony meet-
ing. None responding I then felt to speak,
was blessed with a free flow of speech and
testimony. Then John W. Taylor address-
ed the Saints upon a variety of subjects,
and gave much good counsel pertaining to
the little Colony which was laboring under
difficulties and had succeeded in getting a
fine reservoir, but their surroundings were
yet quite rude with few comforts, while en-
deavoring to do the most important thing
first, viz., to bring under cultivation their
farming lands.
After the meeting had dismissed the com-
pany was still entertained by our quartett
and our Professor of the violin in a very
pleasing manner, a few songs and recita-
tions brought us to a late hour of the night.
The very cool mountain breeze gave ns,
through the chinkings of the house,
refreshing sleep. Winter clothing and bed-
ding seemed to be in demand in the middle
of August.
Friday 13,at 7 o’clock,I witnessed for the
first time the solemn and heavenly cere-
monies of the dedication of the ground for
the erection of a house of worship; with
prayer, singing and speeches, the company
forming a circle of less than one hundred in
number.
We then visited a house that ex-
hibited some nice specimens of pottery. The
lady seemed happy in making presents of
these specimens to some of the visiting
ladies. We then, on our way home, drove
upon the rim of the reservoir which showed
us the immense labor that had been done.
After another twenty miles ride we arrived
at Manassa very tired. After dinner we
again hitched up and drove ten miles to
Antonita, to fill an appointment in a large
new hall that had been freely given for a
meeting. It was filled to overflowing, even 
to the porch, sidewalks and standing on dry
goods boxes in the street. I here listened
to the most interesting and powerful ser-
mon I ever heard, the speakers were Prof.
Brimhall and John W. Taylor. They
divided their subjects and interspersed them
with songs of Zion by the Quartette, and
solos by Prof. White on the violin. The
meeting was a grand success. Sister Has-
kell and I were invited to stay all night but
returned to Manassa, arriving at 12,
midnight.
Saturday 14, drove to Sanford seven
miles, held a council meeting and did some
more visiting. Some of the brethren walk-
ed many miles. I staid all night with the
Bishop’s people, we were treated with every
attention that was in the people’s power
wherever we went.
Sunday 15, attended a conference both
fore and afternoon. The missionaries,
Elders Graham, the two Brothers Mann,
Grant, Ensign, White, Pres. Albert R.
Smith and John W. Taylor addressed the
Saints of several hundred, both fore and
afternoon. The spirit of the Lord was
wonderfully and powerfully poured out up-
on the young men, which must have added
great testimony of the power of God to
some of the weak as well as the strong. To
me it seemed as a “pentacostal” shower.
Their remarks were enriched by the
singing of the Quartette and music by the
Prof, of the violin the music was composed
by some of the Elders. Between meet-
ngs the brethren were required to fast and

[Column2]
hold a Priesthood meeting. In the inter-
im the brethren and sisters were either out
riding or walking, or filling their appoint-
ed visits to families or isolated individuals.
The most of our company returned to 
Manassa.
Monday, August 16, the most of our
group took dinner at Sister Haskell’s. At
1 o’clock several hundred people had ar-
rived by the running stream, and listened
to remarks by the Elders, after which
Apostle John W. Taylor went into the
water and baptized forty-seven souls, a few
of them were re-baptisms and two were for
their health. It seemed to me the most
solemn and impressive services I ever ex-
perienced. I thought of Jesus being bap-
tized in the Jordan by John, which after
was followed by His crucifixion, and of the
approach of His second coming in the near
future; and I questioned who will be pre-
pared for His coming ?
Tuesday 17, we took dinner in company
with a few at Brother Harrison’s. Here
Elder Taylor told me not to be in a hurry,
and he thought I ought to spend the rest of
my life among the people in a spiritual
capacity, and that I had done a good work
there; but here I must stop, as I presume
his encomiums were more interesting to me
than they can possibly be to others. Brother
Taylor is very kind and unassuming with
his colaborers, but when officiating in his
office as a servant of God his words are ac-
companied with great power, and his testi-
mony seems to bring conviction to every
honest heart. Here I bade them good bye
and hurried on six miles to Sanford to fill
an appointment at 3 o’clock. As I arrived
the sisters were already assembled in the
hall, the seats were pretty well filled, they
numbered about ninety. The time occu-
pied by myself was about 12 hours, per-
fect order prevailed, and the spirit of peace,
harmony and rest was such that the many
babes were lulled to sleep, to the admira-
tion of all. A prophecy was made and ful-
filled before we left the house. The spirit
that seemed to prevail prompted a variety
of topics, then after the close of the meeting
the hearers gathered in front for additional
instruction and blessings, after which we
went home to comfort some of the sick in
their houses, after which I returned too
late for the evening meeting and retired
for the night at the Bishop’s.
Wednesday 18, about 4:30 o’clock I left
Sanford in company with Brother Peterson,
wife and child for Hooper, which lies al-
most due north forty-six miles, arriving
five and a half miles northwest of Hooper
station about 8 o’clock, passing on the way
the town of Alamosa. 
Your sister in the Covenant,
