W. Tyler, printed in Vol. 25, No. 22 of the
Woman’s Exponent were read by Sister
L. W. Jones and adopted by the Stake
Relief Society.
	Sister Alice M. T. Tanner urged the
sisters to sustain the EXPONENT. Presi-
dent C. D. White spoke very emphatically
in regard to sustaining the EXPONENT,
also spoke highly in regard to Sister Soren-
son’s labor. “We need such instructions.
The sisters have been unanimous in select-
ing Sister Cedaressa C. Shepherd for presi-
dent and we are well pleased with the
choice.” She was sustained and set apart,
but being surprised, was unprepared to
select counselors. Alice M. T. Tanner as
secretary and Emily C. Olsen as treasurer

[Column 3]
were set apart for those offices. President
Shepherd made few closing remarks and
conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing “May the grace of Christ our
Savior.” Benediction by Bishop George
Mumford.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec.
	P. S. Sister Shepherd having selected
her counselors they were set apart at the
Beaver Stake quarterly conference, Sunday 
Sep. 19, 1897, as follows: First counselor,
Mary A. White; second counselor, Harriet
E. Fotheringham.
MEADOW PRIMARY.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WE thought perhaps you would like to
hear from the Meadow Primary Association
which was reorganized August 9th, 1892,
with Martha B. Adams president; Isabella
Stott first and Elizabeth B. Bennett second
counselors; Alice J. Duncan secretary, and
Mary H. Adams assistant secretary. There
are about one hundred names enrolled; it is
mostly kept up by the smaller children.
	We hold meetings every Friday after-
noon. The Primary is averagely attended.
We had a Primary entertainment Wednes-
day evening, August 11, for the purpose of
obtaining means to help publish a book
written by Aurelia Spencer Rogers. The
program was as follows: Singing by the
Primary choir entitled “The Primary pray-
er song.” Prayer by Counselor N. M.
Stewart. Singing “Joseph Smith’s first
prayer.” An opening speech by Elizabeth
B. Bennett. Articles of Faith. Song by
Amy and Ethel Bushnell, “I’m not too
young for God to see.” Sentiments by
Lilas Adams, Myrtle Stewart and Ornald
Beckstrand. Music by Mandolin and 
Guitar Club, which played between the
other parts being taken. Bible questions
and answers. Recitation by Amy Stott,
“Angel Guides.” A Swedish song by
Sigred and Emma Pearson. Acrostic reci- 
tation by twenty little girls. A recitation
entitled “John Taylor” by ten little boys.
The Primary Throng by twelve girls. A
cane drill by twenty-five boys. Singing
“Merry, merry children sweetly sing.”
Prayer by H. G. Labrum Sen. The
admission was five cents each for both
young and old. The entertainment was
well attended, the proceeds were $6.75.
Six of the young ladies of Meadow assisted
us in getting up the program.
			ALICE J. DUNCAN. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of Primary conference of the
Salt Lake Stake held Sep. 25, 1897, at the
Assembly Hall, President Camilla C. Cobb
presiding. On the stand with her were
her counselors, Lydia A. Wells and Mary
L. Morris, President. Zina D. H. Young
and others. Meeting opened by singing
“Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Sister Emily
Hollings. Singing “Little children love
the Savior.’’ Roll called with thirty-one
associations repreaented, the children re-
sponding with sentiments. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke to
the children for a short time. She said she
felt to welcome them to the meeting, it
filled her heart with joy to see them. Re-
lated a story about Joseph Smith hearing
some children praying for him when he was
in danger. He said he knew the Lord


would hear their prayers and his life would
be preserved. She told the children
to never forget their prayers and God would
bless them. She said she had been a
Latter-day Saint for sixty-one years, and
thanked her Heavenly Father for preserv-
ing her life to the present time.
	Clarence Openshaw, from the 16th Ward
gave a recitation. A motion song was
rendered by a number of little girls from
the 11th Ward. Frank Buckwater from
the 3rd ward gave a sketch from the Book
of Mormon. “Hail to the Prophet” was
sung by all the children. A sketch of
early pioneer life in Utah was given by
Ida Peck of Cannon ward. Song by Annie
Peterson of the 12th Ward. Recitation by
Ethel Snow from Draper. Song by Lizzie
Stringfellow from the same place. A drill
was very nicely rendered by ten little girls
from the 15th Ward, west branch associa-
tion. Recitation by Chloe Brown, from
East Draper. One of Eliza R. Snow’s
poems was recited by May Alder, from the
2nd Ward. Myrtle Bagley from the 10th
Ward gave a recitation. Duett by Della
Seddon and Luella Harold from the 5th
Ward.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the exercises, and to
see how beautifully the children were
being trained, and said it was a blessed work
to be engaged in. The children would
always remember their Primary teachers.
Announced that the 2nd Ward would have
a Fair during the week and invited all to
visit it.
	Sister Lula G. Richards of the General
board, spoke in regard to Sister Roger’s
book, said she was the founder of the
Primary and hoped they would assist in
publishing her book.
	President Cobb made some closing re-
marks. After singing “In our lovely
Deseret,” benediction was pronounced by
Counselor Joseph E. Taylor.  
