[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: QUEEN ISABELLA. | Author: PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,]

QUEEN ISABELLA.
			————
	If asking will secure it, women and their
work will have abundant representation at the
observance of the four hundredth anniversary
of the landing of Columbus.
	The women of Chicago met Aug. 26, and
appointed Mrs. Myra Bradwell and Mrs. M. M.
M. Wallace a committee to consult with the
national committee to ask for official recogni-
tion as an auxiliary. This action was approved,
and the Chicago Woman’s Department has
been incorporated.
	A little later Miss Susan B. Anthony made
a similar application to the mayor of New 
York. Now the Woman's Industrial Associa-
tion of Washington D. C., puts in its claim.
No doubt some recognition will be made of
women and their work. But whether it be
adequate and fitting or not, women have only
to "bide their time" to receive all that belongs
to them. It has taken four hundred years to
find out that Columbus was worthy of a
world's celebration. Women are only coming
above the horizon. When they are in full
sight, and secure in the possession of equal
human rights, it will be their own fault if
Queen Isabella, the Pilgrim and Puritan
mothers, the women of Revolutionary times
and the noble women all along the line do not
have their proper place wherever common
interests are represented. To this end let
women unite to secure their right to vote. The
power that resides in the ballot is the one
strong lever by which to secure equal rights.
To-day women are helpless for lack of the
ballot. We cannot command what we ought
to have, and must take what is offered.
							L. S.
	Woman's Journal'


Celia Logan is editor of Belford's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	Editor.
	Published semimonthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.	
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
