[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: PRIMARY FAIR AND CONFERENCE. | Author: L. GREENE RICHARDS,]

PRIMARY FAIR AND CONFERENCE.

 Upon entering the building where the fair
was held in Bountiful, and viewing the various
articles, useful and beautiful, made by the child-
ren of Davis County, from four to fifteen years
of age, a feeling of delighted admiration was ex-
perienced. The next thought was to wonder
how the enemies of good, works can bring their
lips and their pens to say that the children
of the Latter-day Saints are wanting in intelli-
gence, and that, they are not instructed in those
thing which will tend to develop in their na-
tures manliness and virtue, womanliness and
parity. If “idleness is the parent of vic,” in-
dustry must be its opposite. And how indus-
trious the little folks in Davis County most have,
been to have accomplished all this!
Besides a number of finished quilts, some of
them really handsome, and all good, there was a
great variety of patch-work, neatly done, mostly
by very little girls. There were infant aprons
and underclothes, made by girls very young,and
the hand sewing upon them so neat and strong,
that it seemed wonderful. Stockings, mittens,
wristlets, card cases, pin cushions, iron holders,
lace work of different kinds, shell work, carpets
and rugs, mottoes, artificial flowers, ornamental
grasses, doll dresses, drawings and colored
pictures, maps of Utah and other portions of
America, bread, butter, fruits vegetables, screen
doors, plow, upholetered sofa, forceps cut from a
single piece of wood, adobies, mats, and other
varieties of work, all done by little boys and
girls, in a style that would do credit, in many
cases, to older people.
	The two meetings held on Saturday, Septem-
ber 20th, beginning at ten a.m. and at two p.m.,
were exceedingly interesting. The programmes
were short, varied and in all respects excellent,
showing the unrivaled abilities of  the children
of Davis County and those who teach them.
Prominent among the latter are Sisters Rogers,
Hess, Dustin and Clark, and Misses Anna Clark
and Kate Chase.
	Sister Ann Dustin, President of the East
Bountiful branch of the Primary Association, is
the mother of Brother B. H. Roberts. Several
of the representative brethren of the county did
the children the honor to visit their fair and at-
tend their meeting, and to encourage them with
wise counsel and appropriate instructions More
praise is due to those brethren because of the
busy harvest time of the year in which the con-
ference was held. There was talk among the
presiding sisters of changing the time another
season.
	The only Bishop present was Brother Cheney
of Centerville. He said, in an address to the
congregation in the afternoon that he was there
because he felt that the little ones would need
looking after, that it would ba quite a labor, and
he might assist in it.
	This example might be followed by many of
our leading brethren to their own credit, and to
the good of their own families.
	Ten branches of the Primaries were repre-
sented in the fair and in the conference, viz.,
North and South Centerville, North and South
Farmington, North and South Kaysville, South
Weber, and East, West and South Bountiful.
	Brother and Sister Rampton of Bountiful,
manifested goodness of heart and kind  hospital-
ity by entertaining a number of visitors, making
them glad with good things to eat, and furnish-
ing conveyances to and from the station at
Woods Cross.
	The good order and good feeling which pre-
vailed everywhere, tended to awaken thoughts
of a most pleasing nature, while beholding such
unmistakable evidence of the progress of the
youth of Zion, and the lips are led by the heart
to say, “Our boys and glris, God Bless them!"
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	S.K. GREENE,
	M.W. WILCOX.
	Visitors from Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
