Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society By Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held on October 3, 1929, in Salt Lake City, Utah. There were two sessions?a general officers' meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building at 10 a. M., and a general session for the public in the Assembly Hall at 2 p. M. The attendance at the general session was notable?ten of the missions and more than seventy stakes had representation. With the exception of Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, who is on a mission with her husband in Canada, and Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who is acting as Collector of Customs in Honolulu, Hawaii, all General Board members were in attendance. President Louise Y. Robison presided at both sessions. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister, was in charge of the music, which was especially attractive. In the morning, the solo by Mrs. Edward herself, accompanied by Professor Beesley, and in the afternoon session the congregational and the choir numbers with the choice instrumental trio by the Evans Sisters, were all artistic and inspirational. Ushers were provided by four of the city stakes?Ensign, Liberty, Grant and Granite. Officers' Meeting MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer Before calling the roll of the stakes this morning, I take this opportunity of expressing my appreciation to the various stakes and missions for the prompt and helpful responses to our letter asking for suggestions relative to the record books for the stakes, the wards and the missions. Accept our thanks for the response which has been most general. We assure you that, just as far as it is possible, we have taken into account your suggestions. The books, now in course of preparation, will be ready for distribution in time for the beginning of the year's work. We sincerely appreciate your very hearty co-operation. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON On this beautiful morning I am thankful to see so many at this conference, and I greet you all with love and blessing. It is CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 653 encouraging to know that many who cannot be here are praying, with love in their hearts, for our success. We enjoy hearing from our presidents. We keep in touch with their work, and appreciate the presence of sisters from faraway stakes and missions. We have an unusual number of changes to report?probably never before so many changes as this year. With sorrow we report the death of one of our faithful, fine presidents, Sister Lily Belle Gledhill of the Sevier stake. A marvelous president, she was full of love, charity, and steadfastness, faithful all her life, having served the Relief Society for many years. After continued ill health, she passed away during the summer. The other presidents, too, have given faithful and fine service. Having carried the burden so long, they were willing to pass it on to someone else. The names of these splendid sisters we would like to present in token of our esteem for the work they have done. Organizations and Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President June, 1929 Moroni Mrs. Anna Blackham (organized) Sept., 1929 Sharon. Mrs. Eva Giles (organized ) Gillespie April, 1929 Emery Mrs. Louisa Oveson Mrs. Margaret Peterson May, 1929 San Juan Mrs. Lucinda A. Redd Mrs. Hattie R. Barton May, 1929 Weber Mrs. Marianne _ Mrs. Katherine G. Browning Wright June, 1929 Summit Mrs. Mary P. Jordan Mrs. Myrtle Richens June, 1929 Sevier Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill Mrs. Estella P. Poulsen (deceased) July, 1929 Hyrum Mrs. Susannah Nielsen Mrs. Laura L. Christensen Aug., 1929 No. Davis Miss Emily Brough Mrs. Elizabeth H. Layton Aug., 1929 San Fran. Mrs. Eva B. Merrill Mrs. Sarah H. Carruth Aug., 1929 So. Sevier Mrs. Ada Anderson Mrs. Annetta Christensen Sept., 1929 Cottonwood Mrs. Vera P. Wahlquist Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle Sept., 1929 Wasatch ee Mima M. Broad Mrs. Nellie C. DeGraff Sept., 1929 Boise Mrs. Florence E. Lewis Mrs. Mary C. Martineau Sept., 1929 Shelley Mrs. Cora M. Mrs. Bessie Kelley Christensen Nov., 1928 East Central Mrs. Fanny S. Smith States Mission. June, 1929 Eastern Miss Olita Melville Mrs. Alice D. Moyle States Mission June, 1929 Northcentral Harriet H. Allred Mrs. Phoebe M. Welling United States Mission June, 1929 Tahitian Mrs. Vera T. Burton Mrs. Marguerite S. Mission Burbridge  This summer we have suffered the loss of a beautiful woman, Sister Emily S. Richards, a former member of the General Board. To Brother Richards we feel to express the sympathy of the whole Relief Society. Many of you older sisters will remember Sister Richards when she visited your stakes, and will recall how kind and faithful she has been. As she always attended conference, we miss her here this morning. There are a few things we should like to explain. You know that at our October conference we try not to take up any new business, but just comment upon rulings already made. In early summer we sent a letter to the stakes concerning the 50c temple fund. We have asked that every Relief Society woman in the Church either do one day's work a year in the temple, or pay the equivalent, 50c a year, so that one woman can be redeemed by each member?a beautiful work which I am sure the Church has been very happy to have done. In the Relief Society we have over 60,000 women doing regular work, and possibly 30,000 others doing extra temple work, so that the women's work is far in advance of the men's. For the time being, we ask the sisters to try to get the brethren interested, either to do their work or to make contributions so that it can be done. Pooling the Wheat Interest: The  meeting houses or amusement halls. It is so difficult to imagine such a condition that we wish these ward sisters would confer with the stake officers. In stakes sparsely populated, it is difficult to pool funds without a great amount of work. Where wards are scattered, or where stake presidents have no definite plan for health work, our advice is that the fund be retained in the wards and expended under the advice of stake officers. Requests that we change our day of meeting from Tuesday afternoon have been numerous, but we feel that we should only lose by changing the day. So, unless it is with the request of the Priesthood presidency (and then kindly take it up with us) we advise that our meeting time remain Tuesday afternoon. In the missions the situation is different. I recall that in the East, the women in one district could meet just as well on Tues- CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 655 day afternoon because they were mostly the wives or mothers of students; while just a short distance away the membership was made up mostly of women who were working in factories and shops, and they could not attend in the afternoon. On program for Work and Business meetings, we have a committee from our General Board?Sisters Amy W. Evans and Lotta Paul Baxter?who will communicate with you. If we can find out which departments have been a success in your stake, we shall pass the plan on to another stake that is in need of help. This summer, in the Benson stake especially, we have had a beautiful expression of love for children. Sister Lyman and her helpers have arranged for sixty-four underprivileged children to be entertained there. We are grateful also to city stake Relief Societies that made it possible for these children to go. One local sister, Mrs. Mary P. Carlson, has made a valuable contribution each year. She sends her check to help pay for these children to go on trips. Other children have been sent out?two to Box Elder stake, one to Timpanogos, and one to Preston. I cannot think of anything more inspiring. When these children come home with gifts for mother, they have jellies and jams and other good things. Fourteen of our children have been at the tubercular camp where I had the opportunity of seeing them. We have great joy in store for you, since our dear Sister Williams is to give you a word of greeting. I shall be glad if you will stand for a minute to show your appreciation. PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS My dear?I hope I may say?fellow-workers, even though I have not been working very much, except with brain and heart. During the year that I have been away from you, you have been almost constantly in my thoughts. I feared that I could not control my emotions as I looked around and saw so many of those whom I knew so well and worked with so long; but I know that they feel, as I do, that it was a good time for someone else to take up the joys of Relief Society work. Next to your families, the work that you do in the Relief Society is the greatest joy 'that you have. With deep interest I have listened to the roll call, and to the report of President Robison. If I might make a suggestion, it is that you continue your missionary work of converting the brethren and the sisters to the thought that the wheat fund interest should be used solely for health work. I feel to lay this on you as a solemn mission. I believe that it carries on the sacred thought that our fore-mothers had when they instituted the gathering of the wheat, thus making it possible for this vast sum of money to be distributed to the wards and missions. It seems to me that in heaven they are looking, I will not say down, but around us, to know what we are doing and what our  ideas and our objects are. Ill they not rejoice that you have grasped the spirit they had in gathering these funds? Will you not assume it as a solemn mission to educate first the brethren and then the sisters? Because there are few of our sisters not educated to this thought. Then it will be easier for you in your wards and in your stakes to see a little boy or a girl who needs a pair of spectacles; or one who should have his teeth filled; or another who needs an artificial limb; or a child who is tubercular and needs the assistance that science can give him. I desire to say again how much I love you, how sincerely I appreciate the work you are doing; and you that do not know me or that I do not know, I love just the same. If you are united and seek the spirit of the Lord you will succeed, and the Relief Society work will prosper. Think from what it has grown in all the years that are past, and look forward to what it may become in the future! Is this not a vision worth seeing? I pray that joy and happiness may reign in your homes, and that you may have pleasure in all the duties you have to perform. MRS. VERA T. BURTON Former President, Tahitian Mission Relief Societies There are few here that know just where the Tahitian Mission is. Many times I have been asked, Where is the Tahitian Mission? It takes in the whole group of the Society Islands, and is 2,000 miles south of the Hawaiian Islands, or just twice as far from here. You board the ship at San Francisco, then for ten days travel on the sea without seeing land. The first sight of land is the small island of Tahiti, and it looks very small, though it is ninety miles around and rises about 7,000 feet straight out of the water. The inhabitants are dotted along the sea shore. It is a beautiful place?it is like a flower garden. Papeete, the city, means a basket of water, so named because from the top of the 7,000 foot cliff is a wonderful waterfall, foaming down into the valley as if it were falling into a basket. The coloring is beautiful; the skies are the bluest I have ever seen, as are also the waters; and I have seen many waters. For three years in the Tahitian Mission there was just one white woman belonging to the Latter-day Saints and one white child, so that you can imagine how, at times, my feelings blended in with the azure skies and the blue ocean. But then, as we look back, we think of just the bright things, and Tahiti is really a beautiful place. Except in the small branch at Tahiti, I have not had much experience in the Relief Society, because we had to travel in small schooners covering from three to seven hundred miles. One trip I took is outstanding in my missionary experience. Boarding a
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ? 657
small schooner about 8 o'clock one Monday morning, we landed in Takaroa three and a half days later. Schooners are generally driven by the wind, but this one had a motor on it. Takaroa is a small coral island?you can hardly imagine how small. If you would just take off your wedding ring and plant it in Salt Lake, you can imagine how small it would seem as you look out and see the grand palms rising out of the water. The beautiful church house there stands out above the cocoanut palms?an inspiring sight. When we arrived, one of the sisters shook us by the hand, saying, "Live in our house as long as you are here." A beautiful little wooden bungalow it was, covered with flowers, the most beautiful roses, the soil for which she had carried from Papeete. Can you imagine anything more beautiful than this little house where we dwelt for five weeks, waiting for a ship to return to Papeete? I was the second white mission president's wife to visit the islands since our mission has been in the South Seas, and my little boy was the first white child of a missionary to go there, so you can imagine the joy and excitement among the people at our coming. In Tahiti they are doing Relief Society work just as we are trying to do it here. They have their funds for the poor; they take care of the dead; they wash the clothing, do the cooking, take care of the missionaries. They raise funds for the Relief Society by climbing the cocoanut trees for the nuts. These they crack open, take out the meat, then dry it and sell it to the traders. They have their quilting bees, making wonderful colored quilts. The beautifully blended colors are marvelous to us, their materials being poor, yet beautiful and effective. While we were there they were so happy that almost daily they feasted and banqueted us. The native people are the happiest you ever meet. They worry about nothing, being happy all the time, no matter what comes their way. It would be wonderful if we could have just one little bit of this in our make-up. In Tahiti the work conforms to the plan of lessons; but in the islands practically all Relief Society work is left to the elders, who do very well in teaching the native sisters. Once a month we have a regular work day. Three Tuesdays in the month are devoted to lesson work and other things pertaining to their families and the care of their children. They have their socials, and it is wonderful how beautiful they can make a social with their flowers. These dear sisters down there are devoted and sincere. If they had taken tea or coffee, they would go before the congregation of the church and ask to be forgiven and to be admitted back into the work.
 
MRS. IDA S. PETERSON Former President, Danish Mission Relief Societies It is truly a pleasure to give a report of our little mission away over in Denmark. Most of the people there have to work for a living, and we have our Relief Society meetings in the evenings. We do not stop during the summer, but hold meetings the year round. This work is recreation to our people there. We have a sort of moving congregation; for as soon as they are able, they emigrate. To those who remain, we teach the fundamentals. They delight to hear about the gospel?the really big thing in the mission, since other things come afterwards. The true Relief Society spirit is with the Saints in the European Mission. The love of the gospel is great in their hearts, and, of course, that includes everything that is beautiful and good. The spirit of the work is wonderful. These people sacrifice everything. Our ward teaching in these cities is almost perfect. In each of our branches we have from 90% to 100% of the homes visited every month. There are seven fully organized branches. Copenhagen is a large and beautiful city. To meet the sisters requires that the visiting teachers ride street cars, buses, or walk; but they enjoy teaching. Denmark is a very beautiful country, and the Saints in Denmark love the gospel; thus the mission work is carried on there just as well as in the German or French missions. We keep in close touch with the missionaries, and all work together for the one great cause. We have enjoyed the Relief Society Magazine. I am happy to be back amongst you, and I wish to thank you for this opportunity of reporting. MISS OLITA MELVILLE Former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Societies I have been engaged in Relief Society work for the past two years only. The first year I was a member of the Boston Relief Society, and during the last year presided over the mission Relief Society. During that short period I have learned that it is an opportunity for every woman of the Church to be counted a member of the Relief Society. My experience in this work has impressed upon me more than ever the truth of the saying that it is more blessed to give than to receive. Last November there were 27 Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission. During the year we had the pleasure of organizing new ones at Syracuse, Oceanside and Palmyra; also in White Sulphur Springs and New Martinsville, West Virginia. The New York Relief Society was divided into three, adding two more to our total, which brought it up to 35, with a membership of approximately 500. Relief Society work in the Eastern States Mission, unlike that at home, has many different types of Societies. Some are com-
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ? 659
posed entirely of university women, who have a good understanding of the work, with splendid lessons. Others, composed of sisters who are converts from foreign countries, labor under great difficulty because of their handicap with the language; yet they have the spirit of their work at heart, and they are doing wonderfully well. In some of our remote districts the women walk miles to attend, and many of them never miss a meeting during the year. With some this is their only source of education, and they are learning to become better mothers and better wives. When people see what the sisters are doing, they desire to become affiliated with such an organization and become members. Then they study the lessons. As soon as they learn that the gospel has been restored, they are baptized. There is a divine plan in all things; I believe that we are sent to the place where we are most needed and are given means and abilities with which to uplift ourselves. During the last two months of my mission I had the opportunity of traveling with Sister Moyle, my successor. I learned to love her, and am happy that one so capable is to take the work over. When we think of the first organization, and the small number at that time, then look over this great gathering of women here today, we feel the words of the Prophet at the first meeting have been fulfilled: "And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society." I love this work because it comes nearest to the hearts of those in trouble, and not only gives relief, but also saves souls. MRS. HARRIET H. ALLRED Former President, Northcentral States Mission Relief Societies I rejoice this morning that I have the privilege of giving a brief outline of the Northcentral States Mission Relief Society. When I was called to undertake this task I scarcely knew where to begin; but with the help of the Lord, and of my husband, I was able, in some degree, to do this work. It has been a great joy? it has been my recreation; I have never considered it work. It entailed much activity, and the work of the mission president is a little different from that of the stake president, because there is more territory to cover. Our mission comprises part of what used to be the Canadian mission, that is, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, the Dakotas and Minneapolis, a tiny bit of Wisconsin, a small piece of Ontario, and the very slight eastern edge of Alberta. We had only one Relief Society in Canada?in Winnipeg, where we have a very fine branch. In Montana we have four branches?Billings, Belfry, Harlem, and Chinook. In the Montana districts we have women who had been in Relief Society work at home; so I feel that we were more than blessed in having such experience available. We
 
started with five organizations; when I left in July, there were nine and one district. We have other branches?one in St. Paul, one in Minneapolis, one in Grand Forks, South Dakota. We have one teachers' district, by way of experiment, in Bergland, Ontario, which is forty or fifty miles from Winnipeg. There are a few sisters living in Bergland who wished to do Relief Society work. Their numbers were too few for an organization, but they were eager and anxious for the privilege. We made a plan for them, which seemed to be working well when I left in July, whereby they function under the wing of the Winnipeg branch. We call them the Bergland District of the Winnipeg Relief Society. If this plan works out all right, probably there may be other districts organized. I met many wonderful women?many real Latter-day Saint women, who have the gospel and the welfare of each other at heart. We appreciated the assistance of the missionaries in the Relief Society work. They came and helped us with our meetings. Occasionally we had to ask one to be an officer. We prefer to use the local talent, but where that was not available, the lady missionaries were called to assume the responsibility. But the elders had to help with the organizing, and very often they would say: "Sister Allred, if we had known that we would have this phase of the work to do in our missionary labors, we would certainly have paid more attention to Relief Society work before we came here. We did not realize the importance of it, and the wonderful things that may be learned, and the help it may become to a community." The Minneapolis branch was the largest of the nine, and had about 45 members; St. Paul had 41. The lesson work, as a rule, worked out beautifully. Some of the sisters have said that the lessons just seemed to fit in, being just what they needed every time they came to study them. General Session PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We are especially happy to see so many of our dear sisters here on this day which had so beautiful a beginning. A call from President Grant said that he could not be with us, but asked me to give his love and blessings, with greetings from the First Presidency. This morning our own President Clarissa S. Williams extended her love and greetings to all of us. Sister Vilate R. Ivins, from the Hawaiian Islands, was instructed by the sisters there to bring greetings from them, not to the Relief Society of Scandinavia, or of the Southern or the Western States, but to the Relief Society of the entire Church. MRS. VILATE R. IVINS If I were standing before a group of Hawaiian people, I would say 'Aloha', and they would answer back, "Aloha." The
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 661
love this word conveys is greater than that of any other word you can think of. The Hawaiian women are big in body and in heart; full of "aloha" for the work of the Lord. At the head of our Relief Society in Hawaii is Sister Oliva S. Waddoups, a wonderfully fine woman, in charge also of the women's work in the Hawaiian Temple. Her two counselors are fine Hawaiian women; there may be some in the congregation who know Sister Fernandez?a life-long friend to the missionaries and still strong in the faith. As well as bringing the "Aloha" from the Hawaiian people, I bring it also from the Samoan, Japanese, and Tahitian people. In our meetings is the dearest old Japanese sister ? one of the first converts to the Church in Japan. Faithful in the work, she first went into the temple not understanding a word of English; yet she understood everything that was said to her. Our work in Hawaii is similar to that reported by mission presidents today. We follow the Relief Society Magazine ? the theology lessons, the testimony days, the work and business meetings. Our women make beautiful quilts, take care of the sick, bury the dead. Among the lady missionaries is a nurse, Sister Gedge, from Salt Lake City. Our enrollment is large; the mission includes five islands. At the present time they are having their conference in Hawaii, sometimes spoken of as the metropolis of the world, because of the different nationalities there. PRESIDING BISHOP SYLVESTER Q. CANNON This gathering is evidence to me of the interest that is manifest in Relief Society work. I was impressed in listening to the talks that were made this afternoon. I do not believe you really know how powerful your influence is; and if you do begin to appreciate how important it is, I am sure you will realize the care that should be exercised in all that you do in your official capacity. Outside people say, "If we could only get the Relief Society to help us, we should be sure of success." They have even said that the Relief Society is able to put over elections. We do not admit that to be true; but it shows that many people think that the Relief Society has political as well as moral influence. The Relief Society has various fields of activity from an educational, a moral and a spiritual standpoint. One of the important duties is the administration of relief. We have suggested to the bishoprics of all of the wards that they ought to place that work where it can be effectively carried out. The bishop can turn over to the Relief Society the investigation of charity cases, and can be assured of proper investigation; and recommendations for relief, if carried out by the Relief Society, will remedy the condition. When I speak of relief I do not mean financial
 
relief only, but other service that will enable every family and every part of a family to become self-sustaining and independent. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON A General Board member came back from one of the stakes where she had been for several days; some of the sisters had taken her to the train. When she came home she said, "I have resolved, after seeing what those wonderful ward presidents do, that I will do better work.' You do stimulate the General Board. This General Board representative said that what the ward president had done in the ward she had visited was almost unbelievable; and I think that is true of every one of our ward presidents. I pray that you will have health and strength, that you will have influence in your homes, that the Lord will bless you with your people, that you will know their needs, that no child will be neglected and that no person who is in your care will suffer. I thank you for coming out, I thank these busy men who have come to help us today. I thank Brother Tracy Y. Cannon who came and helped us with our music, and Sister Edward, and all who have helped to make our meeting a success.