[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Cicelia]
Cicelia Nelson Found a New Hobby at the Age of &ighty CICELIA Nelson of Smithfield, Utah, is now ninety-seven years old. Seventeen years ago she started the hobby of making quilts. She has made more than thirty beautiful quilts for members of her family. One of these received first prize at the county fair. Her quilting stitches are fine and even, and her designs and color harmonies reveal the craftsmanship of a true artist who does her part to make the world more beautiful and to make her family happy. Cicelia, who was born in Denmark, came to Utah at the age of five and has lived eighty-five years in Smithfield. She hopes to live at least three more years, so that she can reach the century mark. For many years she was a practical nurse, taking little or no pay for her devoted service. In young womanhood she became an expert seamstress and made many aprons, pillow tops, dresses, and blouses, as well as much embroidery and crochet work. She is still an excellent cook, and, although she lives with a daughter, she likes to make cakes and cookies to serve as a treat for the many friends who call to visit with her. Mrs. Nelson is the mother of five children, and she has sixty-six other descendants. She has been a widow for nineteen years, but her cheerfulness and courage have uplifted her own heart and have contributed to the happiness of generations of people in the Smithfield community. Page 452 April's Pennies Arlene D. Cloward PRIL sat up quickly at the A tread of Papa's heavy boot upon the loft ladder. Her eyes swept over her three little brothers sleeping peacefully on their blankets, nestled deep in the fragrant hay. The one thing, and the only thing that was pleasant about the night Mama gave birth to a baby was the fact that they could "sleep in the loft in the barn. Joey, Tim, and two-year-old Georgie had had great fun playing in the hay the night before; it had been she who had sat by the tiny loft window and prayed. Mama never had an easy time at best, she knew from the way Aunt Ella talked the next day. Papa's tired face and tousled black hair came up first over the edge, followed by his long arms and legs. His gray eyes were weary, but he smiled. "Mama?" she asked tensely, gripping the corner of her blanket. Papa grinned. "Mama is fine, and you now have a wonderful little baby." April caught her breath "... Sister!" "She flew into Papa's arms and squealed delightedly, "Oh, Papa, I never dreamed it would really be a girl! Oh, I love boys, of course," she added loyally, glancing with affection at her brothers, "but a sister!" Papa ruffled her golden red curls. "Wake up the boys and tell them. Wash them well at the pump, and then I reckon you can go on in and see your new sister... Mama, too, of course." April did his bidding excitedly, and the small family trouped in quietly. Mama smiled at them from her high bed, her auburn hair looking brighter than usual against her pale face and the white pillow. April hugged her and kissed the smooth cheek before she turned to look at the tiny little bundle Aunt Ella was holding up for her. She peeked down at the little round face, and her heart seemed to pound against her ribs. Very, very gently she touched the soft, fuzzy cheek and the little doubled fist. She giggled happily as she saw the downy black hair. "Oh, Mama, we finally baby with Papa's hair." Mama smiled, too, looking at the crop of red, brown, and yellow heads surrounding her and up at the beaming, dark father. Later, April ran up the narrow stairs to her tiny room tucked _ beneath the eaves and took out her little glass jar that was almost full of pennies. Yes, the Fast Sunday when the new little baby would be blessed and 'Timmy would be confirmed a member of the Church, she would wear a pretty new dress, the first really new dress of her ten years; all her others had been madeover ones. She looked at the shiny pennies she had saved so diligently from tending Mrs. Kinley's children — at last there were enough for her new dress. What could be so wonderful as to have a sweet sister and a pretty dress? She closed her eyes and pictured the frilly yelPage 453 got a 454 low dress with the full skirt in Tomkin's show window. 'Tomorrow, it would be hers. That evening the family sat around the table after the dishes were cleared away, and Mama looked on from the bed, smiling in deep contentment. Joey grinned, showing plainly the big gap where his two front teeth were missing. "What are we going to name little sister?" Papa's eyes crinkled at the corners. "What would you like, Joey?" "Daisy." "Daisy!" April exclaimed, "why?" OEY looked a little abashed, and Tim crowed, "Cause that's his cow's name." He began to giggle, but Papa stopped him with a stern glance. "Daisy is Joey's choice. What do you like, April?" "I think we should name her Katy after Mama." The boys all agreed eagerly, especially Joey, and Mama kissed each of them with starry eyes. So it was decided. April gazed at the tiny round face pillowed against Mama's breast and sighed, "She'll look so sweet in the new dress we're going to get for her to be blessed in." Papa laid his book down slowly. "Tm afraid we can't get the gown after all, honey, what with the doctor bills and all." Tim looked up and his eyes were bright. "No new suit for me either, Pa?" "I'm afraid not, son," Papa said softly, covering 'Tim's chubby hand with his large one. Tim gulped to keep back the tears, for it wasn't every day that a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 boy was confirmed a member of the Church. April thought of the suit that Tim would have to wear, the sleeves coming up above his wrists and the trousers much too short. She glanced at his face and felt tears coming close at the look of misery in his eyes, but she saw the brave smile that he flashed. "Oh, that's all right, Pa. It doesn't matter." But it did, very much, and April knew it. The following day April took her bottle of pennies and tucked it carefully in her big purse.. Today was the day that she could buy the pretty dress. Papa helped her up beside him on the wagon seat and clucked to the horses. He grinned down at her. "Well, honey, today is the day you ve been planning on for so long. You'll look real nice in a new dress." April smiled, but she wasn't as happy as she had anticipated. Papa left her at 'Tomkin's store. "Pll be back in about a half hour. Just take your time and look around." April waved after his broad back and stepped up before the big window. 'There was the dress! It looked even more beautiful than ever, and her heart pounded happily. It would really be hers. She hurried inside and started toward a clerk. Then she turned. It was only once in a small girl's lifetime that she saved 'so much money, and she might as well spend a little time carrying it around before she gave it all away. She walked through the aisles and felt very wealthy as she saw the different pretty things that she could APRIL'S PENNIES buy. There were silk scarves and bottles of perfume and _ jewelry and. She stopped, for there, spread out before her, was a beautiful, sheer white baby dress with a wide row of lace and a satin pink bow on the lace yoke. She caught her breath as she read the price. Why she could even buy that and have money left over. But she hurried away quickly, for she didn't have money for that and her dress, too. April decided that she didn't want to look around after all, and she started back to the clerk, when her eyes caught sight of a neat blue suit. She walked closer. It was just Tim's size. She closed her eyes tightly and ran to the smiling clerk's side. "IT I want the dress—the yellow one in the window," she said breathlessly. "THE clerk smiled. "It is pretty, isn't it? It's just the type for you." She chattered on, but April didn't hear her because she kept thinking of Tim's brave little face and _ his suit that looked like it was Joey's— and the sweet tiny baby pressed against Mama that would be wearing the slightly yellowed dress that Was so worn. "No, wait a minute. I've changed my mind. I'd like that pretty baby dress... And the blue suit, if I have enough money." She said it quickly, for once said, it could not be undone. The clerk sure?": April held up her head very straight, and her eyes sparkled as smiled. "Are you 455 she pictured her brother and sister in their new clothes. "Yes, very sure!" She had enough money, with a penny left over, and she held the big package tightly as she picked out a penny's worth of peppermints for Mama. 'Then, very slowly she took out the jar of pennies. Her heart pounded as she handed it to the clerk, and with each penny that she counted her dress was more and more impossible, until, at last the pennies were out of sight in the cash drawer. She closed her eyes tightly as she walked past the shop window and ran across to Papa quickly. "Did you get it?" he grinned as she flounced up beside him. She nodded. "Good," said Papa. "You certainly look happier than you did when we came." Aptil was a little amazed—but she was happier! When they arrived home Mama called to April, as she ran through the room. "April, dear, may I see this lovely dress you've talked so much about?" "Can I wait until Fast Sunday, Mama?" "Of course, dear, if you'd rather." April smiled and handed her the bag of peppermints. Mama's eyes twinkled as she thanked her. April dashed up the stairs and laid the package carefully on the bed and tore open the wrappings. She had fully expected to cry, but as she touched the rippling folds of the dress and held out the suit, she smiled instead. Putting them on hangers, she placed them in the closet beside her freshly-ironed, old, 456 best dress, the dress that would go to Church once again. FPARLY Fast Sunday morning, the eventful day, April awoke to the sunlight streaming in across the room and the delightful twitter of birds outside. She slipped quickly out of bed and dressed in her blue dress. 'Trembling with eagerness, she took the suit and the baby dress and ran down the stairs. Papa and Mama looked up expectantly, and astonishment flashed across their faces. "Why, darling! New dress?" April handed them the clothes, and they looked down at her with pride, love, and understanding shining in their eyes. Sitting on the bench in the chapel April looked happily at her proud parents holding Katy in her flowing white dress, with its perky bow. Her three brothers were scrubbed and shiny-faced, and 'Tim fairly beamed Where is your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 with happiness. Her own blue dress looked nice, and she would have been surprised at the many admiring glances turned her way—the smiles of approval. Her dress may have been seen before, but most of them had never seen a face so childishly peaceful. The speaker, his face calm and earnest, gazed down at the humble congregation. His sermon was interesting and stirring, but to April his last lines were the most important. "Each day you give up something —something precious—you're coming nearer to Jesus, our Savior, nearer to his example... To him who gave the greatest sacrifice of all!" Aptil listened as though he were talking to her alone. She had made a sacrifice—however small. It had been hard, but oh, how glad she was now! What could be a better way to be near Jesus than to make a small sacrifice? 'Tenderly she touched the blue pleats of her old dress. A - Summer Foothills Vesta N. Lukei The sun-fire bakes the hills to a golden crust Rich loaves of ripened grain, And sears the surface soil Brick red or rust. The long heat roasts The earth's deep ground And it becomes well-browned, Done overmuch. The hillocks toast, The wild weeds, the shallow-rooted, broil. Haycocks slowly burn To a gentle amber turn; Tree leaves cook crisp, and poison oak, Like creeping flame, Climbs the foothill slopes, And even pebbles sizzle to the touch. Green Willows CuaptTer 6 (Conclusion) Deone R. Sutherland wrote Pat almost every day while she had the mumps, but her mother said she wasn't very cheerful. I tried to tell her how surprised everybody in town was about Karen's engagement, and how really surprised everyone was when, just a few days later, Dr. 'Turner bought an engagement ring for Margaret. They might have a double reception after being married in the temple, people said, but Dr. Turner didn't want to wait until spring to marry Pat's Aunt Margaret. He thought they should be married at Christmas time. 'That would give the school board plenty of time to find another teacher for the last half year unless Margaret really insisted on finishing the year. Then the next summer they were going to take a real honeymoon to Europe. 'They were going to take Phil, too. Phil was crazy about Margaret. Everybody was, including me. I wrote Pat how dumb people were to be surprised. We knew all about it long ago. Or we thought we knew some things anyway. Pat had to stay in the house over two weeks. One side went down, and then she came down, or rather swelled up on the other side. "She's missing half the summer," I complained to Mother. It was almost three weeks before we were able to get out on our bikes again and sell Kold-ayde. The July heat was really going to be terrible for us to ride in, we decided; but it was awfully good for selling our product. We encouraged parents to buy Kold-ayde in order to make their own popsicles for the children at home. We did very well for a change. One package makes a terrific number of popsicles everyone had to agree. It was very late in the afternoon when we approached the hill that led to the Diffendorf home. "We really don't have to go up there today,' I told Pat. "We've made quite a profit already. We've only a few packages of raspberry left in the basket.": "I know," Pat said, "but it might be that they'd want some drinks. I'd like to stop in anyway." I looked at her in disbelief about their wanting any, but we got off our bikes and pushed them up the hill. "Anyway, the road's stopped shimmering," I said. "If we don't hurry, we're going to be late getting home to dinner." "We'll only stop a minute," Pat said. "Dr. Turner brought Aunt Margaret to see me last night, so Mama says I've seen them enough this week. We'll hurry." "Somebody's car is parked in front," I said to Pat. We climbed the hill slowly with our eyes on the car. We were almost to it before we recognized it to be Jens Oleson's, the postmastPage 457 458 er's car. We stopped to rest and looked at the car and then at each other. 'Another telegram?" Pat suggested. "Maybe," I said, "but the post office must be closed by now." Margaret was digging in the garden in front of the house. "Well, Pat and Lillian, hello." She stood up, brushing the dirt from her gloves and shaking her hair back a little. She wore a dark skirt and a thin yellow blouse. "Are you selling on this hot day? How's business?" "So good," I said, "that we really don't have to sell you anything today unless you really want it." "Oh," laughed Margaret, "TI think Agnes will probably need at least one package. I'll get my purse in just a moment." She sat back on her heels and looked at the garden where she'd been digging. She laid her gloves on the grass, and I saw the diamond Dr. Turner had given her sparkle in the sun. It looked very bright and light against her brown, thin hand. Pat and I lay down on the grass beside her. 'Did Mr. Oleson bring a telegram?" Pat asked. "No," said Margaret. "At least I don't think so. He's around in the kitchen talking to Agnes. She's making cream puffs." We hadn't realized how hungry we WEIe. MARGARET stood up, stretching. "She must be finished with them by now. Let's walk around, and you can have one to eat on the way home." She looked over the few remaining packages in our basRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 ket. "I suppose I'll have to take raspberry, but it isn't my favorite." We walked around the house. "Tll run right up and get my purse," Margaret said. "You girls go on into the kitchen for a cream puff." Jens Oleson was standing in the kitchen doorway. We hesitated in the hall. Pat's Aunt Agnes' voice was saying, "I appreciate your thoughtfulness, Jens, but I assure you with my whole heart that 'm quite content with my life the way it is and never have the slightest intention of changing it " "Yah, I know, Agnes," Jens said. "You were determined even as a little girl, I had no business to bother you, but I thought maybe you'd mellowed with the years. I won't mention this again ever, so there'll be no strain on you." Jens backed through the kitchen doorway. "Oh, there'll be no strain," Agnes said. "My word, I have to go on using the post office the rest of my life, I imagine. Here, take a cream puff with you. You've been eyeing them hungrily ever since you came in. "Thanks, Agnes — Miss Diffendorf. Youre a wonderful cook and no mistake. Yes, I'll take one more for my supper. Goodbye for now." He turned to go into the hall and saw us. "Ah, the girls are here, is it? I'll just go out the back door; no sense going through the whole house." He opened the back door with his elbow, holding the cream pufts warily. We went into the kitchen. Aunt Agnes greeted us absent-mindedly. "Take two," she said, nodding at GREEN WILLOWS the cream puffs. But we could only manage one on a bike, we explained. Margaret came into the room with her purse. "Margaret," Agnes asked, "are you buying the juice powder today?" "We only need one package," Margaret said. "Business has been very good for them all day. It's the hot weather, I expect." "That's what we tell the people," Pat said. Margaret searched in her coin purse for a nickel. "I'm sorry we've nothing left but raspberry," I said. "Oh, that's all right," Agnes said. "Did Jens go?" Margaret asked. "Is something wrong at the post office?" Agnes looked at Margaret and snorted. "You and Karen getting engaged has turned the town upside down, I guess. Or at least it gave our postmaster ideas." Margaret looked at Agnes; then she said slowly, "Well, why not? Jens is a fine man. A little old." GNES stood up, ""That's enough, Margaret. I don't intend to quit teaching, and I don't intend to take in a boarder. I expect it will be all over town, unless these girls can hold their tongues." "Yes, we can," Pat said. I nodded my head. "Jens is a good man, Margaret's right, and there's no need to hurt him. It's just the rumors going around, I expect, that made him lose his head for a minute. I'm happy the way things are. Margaret will be just across the street. Karen will be up near the university in 459 Orchard City. My cousin Harriet, who was widowed only a year ago, would be happy to move in should I ever feel the slightest tinge of loneliness. I love teaching. My life is already patterned. Some people are meant for some things, and some for others. It's a wise person who knows when he's well off." "Why, look how settled we were before." Margaret began. "Settled," said Agnes, "but not teally happy. Karen was too busy at the university and too young to know, but you had already begun to be an unhappy person. Look at the way you dashed around to keep busy every summer before this one. 'Those two years following Gwennie's death bothered you terribly when you thought people might think you were thinking of Mark again. It wasn't happy for me to see, Margaret."' "You're right, of course, AgHess Agnes interrupted Margaret again, "But me, Margaret, I've always been happy the way Iam. I'm not restless, and I'm not looking for anything. I'm content. I like reading papers, and looking at the children in the fall, feeling I'm about to discover them all over again for a wonderful year. My mistake was that I tried to impress that contentment onto you two girls. I wanted you to know what I'd found. But all of us are different. Some want more than others." Margaret said slowly, "But, Agnes, those years were hard ones after Mother died. She'd spent almost everything Father had left. You took over and sacrificed for all of? Us ° s. S 460 "Sacrificed!" Agnes exclaimed. "I loved it. I loved teaching and being able to help my family. I never did anything with the thought that any of you should someday feel that you should sacrifice any happiness in your own lives in order to repay me in any way " "I know that," Margaret said, "but all the same." "I've enacted the role of kin—of a sister, and that is all,' Agnes said shortly. "Let's drop it there. How could any of us be happier with what we have? Margaret, take this tray of cream puffs and put them in the icebox, will you?" Margaret held out her hand. Agnes held the tray for a moment, looking intently at the pastry. "That was funny about Jens, though, wasn't it?" she murmured. We hurried down the hill on our bikes. We went so fast that the wind tugged our hair and our feet couldn't keep up with the pedals. We held our feet straight out at our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 sides. 'Tonight we were really going to be late to dinner. "We'll catch it," we yelled at each other. Green Willows whirled by on each side as we cascaded down on our bikes. Suppose all our days when we are young here, go by that fast, I thought. My heart almost stopped with fear that they might. I wanted to yell the words out to Pat, but I couldn't find the nght ones. I looked at her quickly and saw that her smooth brown face looked as young as mine must be. These days will never end, I thought. They'll go on forever, or at least such a long time that I don't have to worry about it now. Besides, all of a sudden we were only a few blocks from home, and we had to quit coasting and start pedaling. We stood up on our bikes to pedal because that was faster. We could smell dinners cooking in the houses. All of Green Willows was getting ready for dinner. I could hardly wait to get home. Soday We Picked < Currant Crop Zara Sabin Today, we picked the currant crop— Two small brown hands out-cupped, held all The ruby-ripened loveliness Most carefully, lest one should drop. My mind raced back... When I was small, Grandmother, in a gingham dress, Had help from me. My unruly mop Of sun-browned curls was scarce as tall As the currant bush. That kept me there. It was not duress I was "her prop," "Her good right hand," she said, "her all." My heart beat high with happiness And childish pride. Time does not stop. Too soon our year is at the fall; Our days are few to serve and bless— Today we picked the currant crop! From The Field ee oO Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) PRESENTS WORD PICTURE OF THE CONSTITUTION "THIS IS FREEDOM," March 15, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Marlyn Hess, representing a housewife; Charlotte Clifford, an American citizen of today; Helen Henry, a citizen of tomorrow; Blanche Pusey, stake social science class leader, who gave the prologue and directed the program; Dorothy Villalobos, representing the armed forces; Elva Wright, representing the Relief Society. Standing, at the right, left to right: Josephine H. Madison, as the Constitution personified; Louine Cromar, President, Denver First Ward Relief Society, as a citizen of the past. Second row, standing, left to mght: Marjorie Whitman, organist; Reta R. Beck, stake chorister, who directed the music. Third row, standing, at the nght: Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society. Fourth row, standing at the right, nght to left: Mollie Richardson, First Counselor, Denver Stake Relief Society; Thelma Robinson, Second Counselor, Denver Stake Relief Society, who introduced the program. All the wards in Denver Stake participated in this program which was based on the word picture "This Is Freedom," by Alberta H. Christensen, a member of the general board of Relief Society. Page 461 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 463 Society; Verna Wright, former First Counselor, Nephi Second Ward Relief Society; Delta Yates, Second Counselor, Nephi Second Ward Relief Society; Martha C. Eagar, President, Juab Stake Relief Society; Edna J. Cazier, theology class leader, Juab Stake Relief Society; Leta Bryan; Ellen Greenhalgh. Second row, standing, left to right: Eva Powell; Florence H. Lunt; Arvilla Warren; Olive Broadhead; Mary Belliston; Emma Lunt; Delia Stanley; Louise Leavitt; Zelma Golden; Lizzie Black; Etta Latimer; LaRae Kendall; Hazel Bosh; Mildred Brown, First Counselor, Nephi Second. Ward Relief Society; Ida Memmott; Mildred Greenhalgh; Pearl Belliston; Thora Pace; Ethel S. Irons; Lua Stephenson; Ida Belliston. Photograph submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist SWEDISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT CONFERENCE Stockholm, April 10, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Marianne Ternstrom, President, Stockholm Branch Relief Society; Edith Nilsson, Stockholm District leader; Ethel E. Blomquist, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Svea Kinderstam, visiting teacher; Ulla Balck, President of the newly organized Stockholm Second Branch Relief Society. Sister Blomquist reports the enjoyable occasion of this conference which was held on Easter Sunday: ''Members of the Norwegian Choir and their families were honored guests during our conference, singing at our meetings and rendering a beautiful concert during their stay. A number of our Norwegian Relief Society members are in the picture. We were sorry that Sister Gunderson, Second Counselor in the Oslo Branch Relief Society, who gave such a lovely talk, somehow was out of the line of focus for the picture and so cannot be seen with the group." 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), NEWTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY DINNER, March 15, 1955 Vera R. Cantwell, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports that all the women in the Newton Ward received an invitation to this dinner, celebrating the 113th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842. — A Sribute to the Singing Mothers Ida L. Belnap ".. Yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D. & C. 25:12). Oh, Singing Mothers in Zion, a part of Israel's great throng, Wondrously sweet, harmonious, and clear, your voices carry on, The deep rich melodies we love, and messages of worth, To gladden, cheer, and brighten all this saddened earth. Yours is a worthy purpose, yours is a gift that is rare, That awakens in the human heart, a feeling akin to prayer. The music sweet revives the soul, new faith to us is given While reverently and joyously, we taste the peace of heaven. Sometimes you tell of David, sweet singer of olden times, And then again your voices blend in modern mystic rhymes; You take us to the utmost heights where holy temples rise, It seems we almost feel the warmth from the Master's eyes. Oh, mothers old and mothers young, we love you for what you are, Your courage, faith, and dignity in lands both near and far. The music of your song shall live in worlds that are to be, For you not only sing for time, but for eternity. Then sing, oh, Singing Mothers, sing an echo to your song As on the vast, ethereal waves, your voices float along. MIE DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 33—Review—The Book of Mormon Book of Ether and 1 Nephi through the Book of Alma Elder Leland H. Monson For Tuesday, October 4, 1955 Objective: To renew our understanding of the lives and teachings of The Book of Mormon prophets. The Book of Ether LOOKING back upon the history of the Jaredites and Nephites (so far as we have studied their history) as it is reflected in the lives of their great leaders, we recall a few who have marked milestones of progress in the history of that civilization. The Book of Ether, "The record of the Jaredites, taken from the twenty-four plates found by the people of Limhi in the days of king Mosiah," gives an account of Jared, the brother of Jared (by name Mahonri Moriancumer, as stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith), their families, and a few friends who came from the Tower of Babel at the time of the confusion of tongues. Mahonri Moriancumer, The Brother of Jared Mahonri. Moriancumer, known only as the brother of Jared in the Book of Ether, became the first great Jaredite leader. He was "' a large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord..." (Ether 1:34). The Jaredites through Moriancumer were directed by the Lord to cross the sea to the "land of promise." Great faith in the Lord was shown by their leader when he asked the Lord to touch the "molten" stones that they might give forth light. (See Ether 3:1-6.) The Lord heard the prayer and "... Stretched forth his hand and touched the stones one by one with his finger " (Ether 3:6). After the Lord had prepared the stones to give forth light, the brother of Jared placed one in the end of each barge, and they gave light to the vessels. So great was the faith of the brother of Jared, that he beheld the finger of the Lord. Struck with fear he fell to the ground. The Lord said to him:. Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood; and never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast; for were it not so ye could not have seen my finger. Page 465 466 Sawest thou more than this? (Ether 3:9). Then it was that the brother of Jared, in great faith, asked the Lord to show himself unto him. As the Savior showed himself to Mahonri Moriancumer, great truths were established. 'The brother of Jared was shown that the Lord lived as a personage in the spirit world before his advent into mortality. It proved to him that man is created in the image of God and that he, Jesus Christ, would come in the flesh to redeem his people (Ether 3:13-16). We also learn from the study of the life of the brother of Jared that faith brings an answer to prayer. The Jaredite people became a great and prosperous nation as long as they were governed by a righteous leader and heeded the word of the Lord. But during the reign of unrighteous kings, the people became wicked. Idolatry became common. The "secret combinations" of old were introduced and many were slain by those desiring power and wealth. Ether Near the end of the Jaredite civilization, Ether, one of the greatest prophets to the Jaredites, came forth in the days of the last king Coriantumr. Ether began to prophesy and warn the people of impending destruction, if they did not repent (Ether 12:1-5). For safety, Ether " hid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things which should come upon the people' (Ether 13:13). The two leaders Coriantumr and Shiz fought the final battle of swords. As Ether watched from a cavity in the rock, Shiz was slain. Thus the prophecy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 of Ether to Coriantumr, that Coriantumr would be the last of his people to live, was literally fulfilled. (Ether 13:20-21. See also Omni 20.22.) The Book of Mormon Lehi When we think of The Book of Mormon it is the more detailed history of the followers of Lehi whom we especially recall. Lehi, divinely directed, led his little colony composed of his wife Sariah and his sons and daughters, Ishmael and his family, and Zoram, from Jerusalem across the mighty waters to the promised land. 'There, as a patriarch and father, before his death he called them together and _ blessed and instructed them. For, behold, I have seen a vision, in which I know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also have perished. But, said he, notwithstanding our af.- flictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their LESSON DEPARTMENT sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever (2 Nephi 1:4-7). Disappointed and wearied over the wicked activities of Laman and Lemuel, and pleased with the willing obedience with which Nephi had responded to the good and the beautiful, Lehi passed to the great beyond. Nephi Nephi, under the immediate leadership of his patriarch father, had early learned to listen to the teachings of the still small voice. Showing obedience, faith, and courage, he had led his older brothers from the Red Sea back to Jerusalem for the Brass Plates, which he knew contained a genealogy of his forefathers. After two vain attempts, he had been successful in securing these records from Zoram, the servant of Laban. Only then was he willing to return to his father. We remember Nephi's inspirational statement.. I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I. Nephi 3:7). Subsequently, with these same brothers, he returned to Jerusalem to induce Ishmael and his family to join them in their migration to the land of promise, in order that they might intermarry. As a_ leader among his brothers, Nephi, resourceful and energetic, helped the family to overcome great difficulties—the problem of securing food in the desert after their bows were broken, 467 and the problem of building a ship to take them to the land of promise. After the death of his father in the promised land, Nephi found it necessary to separate from his disobedient and wayward brothers. In this new location, named the land of Nephi, he built an advanced civilization at a time when his brothers became a dark and loathsome people leading a nomadic life. Nephi built a temple and provided for the spiritual welfare of his _ people, which, of course, contributed more to their happiness and eternal life than the great material benefits which he showed them how to obtain. Before his death he made two sets of records, the Small Plates of Nephi, to be used for the religious history of his people, and the Large Plates of Nephi, to be used for the secular history of his people. He also instructed his people to keep future records of God's dealings with them. Jacob and Joseph Nephi's two younger brothers, Jacob and Joseph, born in the wilderness as the colony journeyed to the land of promise, became priests and teachers unto the people. Jacob stressed the need of spirituality and pointed to the value of material wealth as a means to the development of men and women, and not as an end in itself. Jacob instructed: But before ve seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:18-19). 468 The immediate successors to Jacob and Joseph taught the people that sin erodes happiness and peace from life, that the happy nation is the God-fearing nation. In the meantime the Nephites in the land of Nephi, under the leadership of King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, fled northward to escape from Lamanite domination. 'They discovered the Mulekites in the land of Zarahemla. 'These Mulekites had left Jerusalem a few years after Lehi and his colony had departed, and had come to the land of promise and settled north of the land of Nephi. 'They were a numerous people and had built up a civilization with Zarahemla as its central city (Book of Omni 15-23). The Nephites joined with the Mulekites in building a civilization there, which was henceforth known as a Nephite civilization. King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, was made king over the inhabitants of Zarahemla (Omni 19). Benjamin After Mosiah's death his son Benjamin became king over the united nations. "... King Benjamin was a holy man, and he did reign over his people in righteousness... (Words of Mormon 17). During Benjamin's reign there was "... A serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the Lamanites..." (Omni 24), [the Lamanites were living in the land of Nephi (Words of Mormon 13-14)] "... But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of the land of Zarahemla" (Omni 24). During the remainder of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 his days he had peace. Before his death he called his people together before the temple and announced to them that his son, Mosiah, should be their king and instructed them concerning the gospel (Mosiah 2:9). Among other things, he told them that he had labored with his own hands in order to avoid burdening them with taxes, and informed them that he wanted them to understand that "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). So it was that he urged them to serve one another. He also prophesied concerning the future appearance of Christ (Mosiah 3:5-12). He also taught them how to activate the gospel principles in their own lives, how to make their religion life-service rather than lip-service. And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. Perhaps thou shalt say: 'The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just— But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God (Mosiah 4:16-18). Benjamin concluded his address by admonishing the people to watch their thoughts, their words, and their actions, and to exercise faith in the future coming of Christ (Mosiah 4:30). He took the names LESSON DEPARTMENT of all people who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his commandments and take upon them the name of Christ. During his address, Benjamin named his son Mosiah to become their king. It was, perhaps, during Benjamin's reign that some of the Nephites in Zarahemla became restless and were "... Desirous to possess the land of their inheritance," the land of Nephi, then controlled by the Lamanites (Omni 21-30). After one unsuccessful attempt, Zenift led a group southward to the land of Nephi. This little colony made peace with the Lamanites in the land of Nephi but were ultimately taken into captivity by them (Mosiah 9:1-6). Mosiah Later, King Mosiah, son of King Benjamin, sent sixteen men under the leadership of Ammon back to the land of Nephi to locate Zeniff and his colony, who previously had gone there (Mosiah 7:2-6). They found the descendants of Zeniff and his followers in captivity because of wickedness. Previously, Alma the Elder had withdrawn with some righteous followers to the waters of Mormon. Alma had become converted through the teachings of Abinadi. (See Mosiah, chapter 17.) Alma's followers and the descendants of Zeniff returned safely to Zarahemla. (See Mosiah, chapters 22 and 24.) King Mosiah gave Alma authority over the Church. Before his death, the great King Mosiah established a democratic form of government among his people when his four sons refused to be king. (See Mosiah, chapter 29.) In the Western Hemisphere, then, 469 people were granted religious liberty at a time when monarchies held sway over the eastern world. Alma the Younger Alma, the Younger, son of Alma, was the first chief judge and high priest in this democracy, however recognizing the vital importance of sound religious practices, he resigned the judgeship so that he could devote his time to the ministry, and preach repentance among the people. Alma, the Younger, in his early life had been associated with the four sons of Mosiah in trying to destroy the work of God which Alma, the Elder, and King Mosiah had so zealously endeavored to build. After a miraculous conversion, however, Alma the Younger became one of the greatest missionaries in the thousand year period of Nephite history. He became a great doctrinal preacher and reformer. He started a reform movement in Zarahemla, trying to divest his people of their envy and pride by preaching the doctrine that Christ should come and redeem mankind. He taught them that Christ should be born of a virgin who should "conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost" and that Christ should redeem mankind from their sins, provided they would repent and come unto him. The reform movement, started in Zarahemla, spread to Melek, and Ammonihah. Alma was assisted in part of this missionary work by Amulek, who also was able to exercise the Priesthood with much power. Later, Alma and seven men, including his sons, carried on missionary activities among the Zoramites, whom they encouraged to follow 470 the true spirit of prayer, teaching of Christ and his power to redeem mankind. Soon after his return, Alma reproved his youngest son Corianton for his wayward conduct among the Zoramites, and commended his son Shiblon for his patience in adversity and instructed him to bridle all his passions, to work industriously, to be temperate in all things, and to set his life nght so that God could answer his prayers. Helaman Alma gave to his faithful son Helaman the sacred records and other sacred objects and impressed him with the magnitude of his responsibility as custodian of these sacred things. He taught Helaman to develop in the people an everlasting hatred against sin and iniquity, and to preach repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He instructed Helaman concerning his own welfare. He informed him that it would be wise to "... Learn wisdom in thy youth..." (Alma 37:35) and to counsel with God. It was Helaman, serving under Moroni, who led "'... His two thousand stripling soldiers " (Alma 53:22), faithful Lamanite sons of the people of Ammon. Not one of these "sons" of Helaman perished in the battles because: Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56:47-48). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Moroni When wars broke out between the Nephites and apostate Nephites and Lamanites, Moroni, a courageous, God-fearing, liberty-loving Nephite, was made chief captain of all the Nephite armies at the age of twenty-five. Using strategy and counseling with his Father in heavyen, he defeated the Lamanites who made an oath that they would never again come against the Nephites. When civil war threatened, Moroni rent his own coat and made a banner of liberty which he carried among the Nephites to enlist them in the preservation of their democracy. There is much we can learn from a study of the lives and teachings of these outstanding Book of Mormon characters. 'The examples they set us can be a source of strength to us in meeting our present-day problems. Let us always remember that these great men, in the face of unusual obstacles and adversities, remained staunch defenders of the truth and preservers of the liberties inherent in God's great plan. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What did the Lord say to Moriancumer concerning his faith? 2. What promises to Lehi about this land are vital to our country today? 3. Contrast the life of Nephi with the lives of Laman and Lemuel. 4. Discuss Jacob's statement on riches. 5. Name two principles of the gospel taught by King Benjamin. 6. What form of government did King Mosiah set up? 7. Discuss Alma's missionary activities, and his instructions and blessings to his sons. 8. Why was Moroni a great general? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 33—"For, If Ye Forgive Men Their Trespasses Your Heavenly Father Will Also Forgive You" (3 Nephi 13:14). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, October 4, 1955 Objective: To show that to obtain forgiveness from God entails our forgiving our fellow men. N the Savior's sermon to the Nephites one of the subjects that he spoke of was forgiveness. He placed great importance on this code of conduct. In fact, he gave it the status of a law which rules that certain actions on the part of an individual will bring certain rewards or punishments. In 3 Nephi, we are told that if we forgive men their trespasses, our Heavenly Father will forgive us ours. The reverse is also stated which is that we can expect no forgiveness from God unless we forgive our fellow men. This law is indeed a_ sobering thought and one which needs to be pondered. Upon often. In taking stock of our life's deportment, I wonder if any of us is free from mistakes, misunderstandings, and, perhaps, a bit of wilful or thoughtless disobedience to the laws of God or man. In moments of weakness, we may fall prey to transgression. We read in 1 John 1:8: If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. We are all subject to human frailties and, certainly, not invulnerable to temptation. So if we want the divine forgiveness of our God, we must do our part by forgiving our fellows of any acts of harm or unkindness they have done to us. Indeed, the Lord says: I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (D. & C. 64:10). Let us teach forgiveness in our homes. We can truly forgive if we have love for God and our brothers in our hearts. The holding of grudges engenders malice and bitterness which make for misery and canker the soul. 'This state of being can be completely wiped out by sincere forgiveness. 'The joy which comes with forgiveness assures us a buoyancy of spirit. 'The melting away of prejudice brings comfort and well-being. We are told to forgive " until seventy times seven" (Matt. 18:22), which is a lot of forgiving, but, by following this law of the Lord, happiness and contentment come into our lives. 471 Work IT lecting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Family Meal Service Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, October 11, 1955 Courtesy in the Home COURTESY and consideration of the rights of others are often regarded as synonymous. 'They are essential ingredients for complete happiness. Nowhere are they more important than at the table. (Behavior at the table, as well as at all other places, is an indication of refinement or the lack of it.) The teaching of table manners should be started as soon as a child is allowed to eat at the table and never stopped until they become a regular and natural practice. An Attractive Table Inspires Good Table Manners The homemaker can do much to set the stage for good manners at the table when she makes the table ready for a meal. Attractive table service is not dependent upon elaborateness and expensive table appointments. 'The simplest table cover and table service, if clean, well cared for, of harmonious colors, and arranged in an orderly manner, are attractive. Orderliness is essential. All table etiquette is based upon it. When a table is properly set and food is served according to approved practices, there is a minimum of disorder and confusion for all concerned. A low centerpiece of garden flowers, a small plant, or a bowl of fresh, colorful fruit, adds to the appearance of the table and the 472 importance of the occasion. All of these things encourage the practice of good table manners. Children often understand what good table manners are, but fail to practice them, especially when the family is alone. 'This could be the fault of the parents in emphasizing the importance of good manners when company comes, but giving little attention to them at other times. In an ideal family life, table service, table manners, and table conversation are essentially the same whether there is company or just the family group. The term casual is applied to meal service in the modern mode, but casual does not mean careless, nor does casual dining mean the omission of good taste and attractive table service. Never should meal service be so simplified as to lose the color, charm, and the satisfaction of some practices which exemplify courtesy. These may include the practice of father seating mother and brothers seating sisters, a particular manner observed by all of folding the arms before the blessing on the food is asked, or just a few words of appreciation to the one who has prepared the meal after it has been enjoyed. Value of Entire Family Being Present for at Least One Meal Wise parents will endeavor to LESSON DEPARTMENT make at least one meal each day a time for both refreshment and fellowship; a time when the whole family can eat unhurriedly and share pleasant conversation. One doctor believes that the cause of many of our physical and emotional ills can be traced to our manner of eating. He says, "Too many of us gulp down our food with no more refinement than is observed when the gas tanks of our cars are filled." A cheerful, happy, unhurried atmosphere at the table is the best aid to good digestion; even the best of pills are poor substitutes. King Solomon declared in one of his Proverbs, "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith" (Proverbs 15:17). Family mealtime should be so important that each family member gladly and without hesitation gives 473 the same consideration to his family dinner appointment as he does his appointments with non-family members. Some parents discourage the development of courteous mealtime habits by too willingly adjusting their plans and wishes to suit less important ones of their children. Make mealtime for your family one of the most important and pleasant parts of each day. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Parents are judged by the table manners of their children. 2. Importance of children helping to serve the meals. Suggested Activities for Class Leaders 1. Demonstrate the essentials of an attractive, orderly laid table service, using the kind and quality of cover and dishes ordinarily used. Jotora wae Nizeitne of England Lesson 49—Robert Louis Stevenson, Personality and Poet (1850-1894) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, I, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 874-881) For Tuesday, October 18, 1955 Objective: To understand Stevenson's life and mind, that we might more accurately relate his poetic writings to his personality. Acts may be forgiven; not even God can forgive the hanger-back (Stevenson). PERHAPS some English author of the late nineteenth century has written more than Stevenson; certainly none has been read more widely or has known more constantly increasing popularity from his own time to our own decade. But whether he is known to his readers through his writings alone or as he should be, through his writings as related to his heroic life-struggle, he is often regarded not merely as a writer but as a "teacher, tender, comrade, friend." 'To millions he has given enjoyment, largely because he had it to give in such cornucopian 474 abundance. Yet few authors have had less cause to rejoice at life's banquet than he. Stevenson, Writer or Man? As Emerson reminds us, "Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not." Yes, for each small blessing and crumb of joy we must indeed be grateful, and Stevenson's poems have enabled countless parents to carry the tranquilities of childhood with them through the years. A Child's Garden of Verses is indeed a classic of children's literature. But to presume an acquaintance with Stevenson after having known his poetry alone is somewhat like labeling Falstaff immortal because of his ponderous size. Particularly in studying this high pinnacle of human spirit, it is Stevenson the man whom we would know; his various writings are isolated fractions of the whole and seriously less than their creator. Stevenson himself referred to his published verse as "mere pithy talk in rhythm." When read in conjunction with his prose, his poetry is rightly seen as a tool whereby he disciplined himself to the careful use of words. Rarely does his poetry arouse deep emotion. It has charm and warmth, but it is not his most natural form of expression. To find the true stature of Stevenson, we are forced to his prose writings and letters. But first we should review the events and atmosphere of his life. Stevenson's character might be summed up as that of an ardent Scotch moral Bohemian who loved writing much, but people and life more. Born in 1850, he filled his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 forty-four years of fragile, intense living with the delicate charm and love of wood nymphs, the racy adventure and gallantry of Scotch border warfare and seaborn freedom, the modern psychologist's awareness of man's conflicting inner life versus outward appearance, and the purple fury of a self-exiled rebel who fought forever for his supreme values of loyalty, kindness, and fairness. The Young Rebel Louis' dark, delicately featured mother worshipped him, bequeathing to him his love of words as well as his profile. Huis childhood photographs show his long, narrow head and face, dark hair, fair skin, and protruding teeth that made his lips bulge. Plain, sensitive, spouting wisdom beyond his years and reared alone by "Cummy," his devoted but lonely and superstitious country-girl nurse, young Louis was "precocious, interesting, affected, and egregiously egotistic." As a youth he reacted violently against everything Victorian and proper and safe—everything his wealthy, respected parents stood for. Thomas Stevenson, his father, as his father before him, was one of Scotland's most eminent marine architects and engineers. Largeboned, imposing, with mutton-chop whiskers framing his stern mouth; broad nose, bushy brows, he knew without quibble the way his only child was to go. Young Louis was forced through engineering school, and won prizes for excellence; then he was prepared for the bar, but he had no heart for either. Partly as defiance, partly out of love for his real world, he dedicated himself LESSON DEPARTMENT while in his teens to a writing career., Father Stevenson' was _ stern, strong-willed and a devout Calvimistic Presbyterian; with family fervor his son countered his father's dogmatisms. During Louis' school days in his home town of Edinburgh, son and father had violent clashes— over theology, career, Louis' way of living, and adolescent determination to marry a low-born girl—which left scar tissue carried by both combatants throughout their lives. As young Louis wrote at the age of twenty-three: What a curse I am to my parents! As my father said "You have rendered my whole life a failure." As my mother said "This is the heaviest affliction that has ever befallen me."'" O Lord, what a pleasant thing it is to have [crushed] the happiness of (probably) the only two people who care anything about you in the world (Furnas, Voyage to Windward, page 66). The Bohemian Writer Not as a fad but as a testament of his faith Louis adopted the pose and attitude of a Bohemian playboy. He now began wearing the loosefitting, gaudy-colored velvet jackets, wide-lapelled, soft-collared _ shirts, and loose-knit wide-knotted _ ties which were his lifelong hallmark. His long, stringy, black moustache and his straight hair falling back uncut into a gentle curl atop his jacket collar helped create the pose of the literary man young Stevenson desired to be. And his desire to write was frightening in its fierceness, but it must be thus: he had chosen his career in defiance of his parents' wish, and he had to make good. Knowing full well at what price he had made his 475 A Perry Picture ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON (1850-1894) decision, he paid for it by as intense a discipline to his craft as modern literary history records. Always he carried with him two notebooks: one for descriptive writings, the other for plots, ideas, axioms. For weeks and months on end he was the "sedulous ape," imitating first the style of one great literary artist, then another, until he mastered one of the highest, most difficult arts; self-expression and communication through the written word. How well he succeeded has been best proved by the passage of time. Yet ten years of family scorn, poor health, wandering about Europe, feverish writing, and little acceptance made Louis' success as a writer anything but certain. He had perfected his craft, but he cast desperately hither and yon for a theme 476 —his lifelong problem in his writing. Constantly his father wavered between his love for Louis as a father and his duty to his religious conscience to take action toward anyone holding liberal theological views. Should he disinherit his son or subsidize him, a self-styled literary genius with so weak a chest that each day seemed a prize stolen from fate? Not without misgivings, the father continued to support Louis, and by the time Thomas died, his son, single and married, had cost him more than $50,000, a source of real concern to Louis as well as to his wife. Louis and Fanny: Lovers It was in 1876 in Paris that Louis first saw Fanny Vandegrift Osbourne, a most handsomely dark woman in her late thirties who had left her vagabond American husband to "study art" in France, accompanied by her two adolescent children. Already she had left her soldier - miner - speculator husband twice before and was now keeping company with Bob _ Stevenson, Louis' cousin, who introduced the two; their mutual attraction was both instant and violent. For two years Louis and Fanny met constantly. She nursed Louis through one of his hemorrhage attacks and correctly diagnosed his affliction as tuberculosis three years before doctors acknowledged it as such. Reared in Indiana, she had spent her married years in western mining camps, and after her return from France, she went back to Monterey, California, to ask for a divorce. Without adequate funds or parental knowledge, Louis followed _ her, traveling steerage and almost starvRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 ing in an Oakland garret during the winter of 1879-80. Again he nearly died; again she nursed him back to life, and after their marriage the two honeymooned at Calistoga, the lavish mountain resort established earlier by Sam Brannan. When funds ran short they spent the summer in Silverado, an abandoned California mining town. Poems of Peace Constantly Louis' ardent friends, Edmund Gosse, William Ernest Henley, Colvin, and others, badgered him to come home. When his father promised the couple 250 pounds annually and asked them to return to Edinburgh, they complied. From the beginning his parents liked Fanny immensely, and Louis knew peace and security within his family circle such as he had not known since childhood. It was in the glow of this renewed love and family approval that he wrote A Child's Garden of Verses, a book dedicated to his childhood nurse, and closed with a note to his beloved mother which stated that the book was written "for love of unforgotten times." 'Thus Stevenson the man re-created the childlike peace and the good world of his first happy years to express the new love and security which had now come to him. Louis Fights for Life During the next decade, 188o0- 1890, he and Fanny and her son Lloyd tried all possible places that might give Louis relief from the dreaded hemorrhaging in his lungs. Lloyd reported later that Davos, Switzerland, where they stayed for months, was the only place he ever LESSON DEPARTMENT saw Stevenson show any indications of "mental inertia," here where he was allowed to write only three hours daily, associating only with fellow consumptives in this bleak, wind-swept valley. 'They next lived in England, and when he was too ill to sit up in bed and write, he tinkered with the piano keys or moulded in clay. But he had long ago stated his great defiance to the world that "I was never bored in my life," and to the end he kept his vow to be vivacious and alive and cheerful until activity killed him. Which it did. They tried the British seacoast, then headed for Colorado, but instead spent the winter at Saranac Lake, New York, at the request of S. S. McClure, the magazine publisher, who appreciated Stevenson's talent and his world fame recently earned him by his Treasure Island (1883), Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde (1885), and his children's poetry. But physically and mentally Louis was not well at Saranac, and Fanny went to California where she located the Casco, a lovely yacht. McClure had offered Stevenson a goodly sum for a series of travel letters, so with money left from his father's estate, supplemented by his own earnings, he bought the yacht, chartered a captain and crew, and on June 28, 1888, a tug pulled the Casco out beyond the Golden Gate. Thus their leisurely cruise of the idyllic South Pacific began, to end in Samoa and four final years of peace and health before his death in 1894. "And where is Samoa?" Stevenson was asked. He replied, "Go out of the Golden Gate and take the first turn to the left." 477 He had a severe hemorrhage at Tahiti, his first in fifteen months, and was so near death that with his usual silent courage he called the captain to him and gave directions for completing the voyage and disposing of the vessel. Such strength of character won his captain over completely; he had started the voyage with biting contempt for literary folk and all their kin. Before they had sailed, so sallow a look did he see in Stevenson's face that he had made certain that all equipment was aboard for a burial at sea. Peace in the Pacific Stevenson loved the Pacific, since it gave him health. But more he loved its people, who were imaginative, kind, spontaneous, and loyal. He learned their language and was vitally concerned in local politics, advising both England and Germany to give up their imperialistic ambitions in the Pacific and allow the natives to govern themselves. And here, as always, he made loyal friends of the consuls, administrators, and natives. Here it was that he gave away his birthday to the daughter of the United States Land Commissioner of Samoa because hers fell on Christmas. From Vailima, his Samoan home, Louis kept up a vast correspondence with his many friends, never complaining of isolation, always rejoicing in his right to live, always realizing that his "soul is in the journey," and that man is "born for the struggle," tasting life only in effort and on the condition that he is opposed. For amusement he characterized Fanny: She runs the show.... Insane black eyes, boy's hands, tiny bare feet... 478 Hellish energy; relieved by fortnights of entire hibernation. Can make anything from a house to a row, all fine and large of their kind. Doctors everybody, will doctor you, cannot be doctored herself. A violent friend, a brimstone enemy. Is always either loathed or slavishly adored (Furnas, Voyage to Windward, page 410). The natives said she had eyes in the back of her head, was fifty places at once, and was to be feared and obeyed. Yet she was "good" for Louis, and she found her sense of life-accomplishment in that of her husband. Her native names were Aolele "flying cloud," and another, meaning Witch Woman of the Mountain. After Stevenson's death she moved to California, and there edited his letters. When she died in 1914, her daughter Belle fulfilled her wish by carrying her ashes to Mt. Vaea_ overlooking Vailima where she lies beneath the concrete slab which also covers Stevenson. Stevenson's Personality The natives named him 'Tusitala —teller of tales—but he translated it "Chief White Information." And his own self-description is delightful: Exceedingly Jean, black eyes, crowsfooted... Past eccentric... Present industrious, respectable and fatuously contented. Really knows a good deal but has lived so long with aforesaid family... That you might talk a week to him and never guess it... Name in family, The 'Tame Celebrity.... Hopelessly entangled in apron-strings. Drinks plenty. Curses some. Temper unstable. Manners purple on emergency, but lable to trances. Essentially the common old copy-book gentleman of commerce; if accused of cheating at cards would feel bound to blow out brains, little as he could like the job.. Given to explaining the Universe—Scotch, ait, Scotch (Furnas, Voyage to Waindward, pp. 410-411). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Regardless of other lacks or possessions, the life of Stevenson and everything he said or did radiates charm. His was a magic personality, and those who were closest to him found him most charming and lovable. When he married Fanny he married the entire family. While he had no children of his own, on several occasions he almost killed himself in his exertions to please children by washing their dolls, cavorting with them, carrying them piggyback. Never was he "Father" to Lloyd Osbourne, but "Louis," a loved and trusted friend, with whom he joked and teased. Married Love Best of all was his relation to Fanny who gave him fourteen years of happiness. Upon being asked his birthday Stevenson replied in dead seriousness, "May 10, 1880," (their marriage date) and no one smiled, for all realized how much she had brought to his life. As he lay in bed, forbidden to exert himself even by whispering, he penned poems to Fanny beginning ""I'o the bare brown feet of my wife and daughter dear," feet that had run his errands for thirteen years. Another note read, "Mr. Dumbleigh presents his compliments and praises God that he is sick so he has to be cared for by two tender loving fairies. Was ever man so blest?' All of us have grown up with the smoothly-turned lines, the gentle thymes, the delight of seeing the world forever through the eyes of a child as found in "Oh, how I love to go up in the swing," "I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me," "In winter I get up at LESSON DEPARTMENT night and dress by yellow candlelight," and "Every night my prayers I say, and get my dinner every day." In view of the events and patterns of his own life, his: The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings has particular power. All these poems have their counterpart in his stories and essays. While sometimes they seem to paint children in his world as too good to be true, they do catch for us the emotions and perspectives of children. Stevenson speaks to us as adults also, both in prose and in poetry. The close relationship between his prose and poetry is well illustrated by his comments on _ marriage. At Davos, Switzerland, eighteen months after his marriage, he wrote: Marriage is one long conversation, chequered by disputes. 'The disputes are valueless; they but ingrain the difference; the heroic heart of woman prompting her at once to nail her colours to the mast. But in the intervals, almost unconsciously and with no desire to shine, the whole material of life is turned over and over, ideas are struck out and shared, the two persons more and more adapt their notions one to suit the other, and in process of time, without sound of trumpet, they conduct each other into new worlds of thought (Furnas, Voyage to Wéindward, pp. 258-259). How wise and sane and true, stated in prose that is clean and straight. Now compare this with one of the many poems he wrote his wife, enclosed as the dedication of The Weir of Hermiston, the novel left unfinished at his death, but surely to have been his greatest work: 479 Take thou the writing; thine it is. For who Burnished the sword, blew on the drowsy coal, Held still the target higher, chary of praise And prodigal of counsel—who but thou? So now, in the end, if this the least be good, If any deed be done, if any fire Burn in the imperfect page, the praise be thine. If still a doubt lingers that the love of Louis and Fanny Stevenson was one of the great of all time, then read from his soul into yours his serene, confident love for his wife as found in "My Wife" (text, page 880): Teacher, tender, comrade, wife, A fellow-farer true through life, Heart-whole and soul-free The august father Gave to me. The Higliest Duty In his earlier years Louis remarked, "Death admires me even if the publishers do not." Yet with death his never distant, constant companion, he dared to find happiness and wonder and love within his short life span. Now we can end with his own thought, in which we find deeper overtones of meaning than before, "here is no duty that men under-rate so severely as the duty of being happy." May God rest such a soul. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why did Stevenson write A Child's Garden of Verses when he did? What relation do these poems have to his own life? 2. After examining his life in relation to his poems, discuss Stevenson as a "charming person." 3. What evidence can you present to prove the relationship of Louis and Fanny as one of the great loves of history? 480 4. Is Stevenson greater as a writer of prose or poetry? What is the strongest quality of his poems? 5. Discuss the importance in our lives RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 of the statement "There is no duty that men under-rate so severely as the duty of being happy.'"' How did Stevenson's life exemplify this? Oar Science =e Constitution of the United States Lesson 15—The Constitution Established Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, October 25, 1955 Objective: To emphasize the great importance of Washington's administration and how that administration laid the foundation upon which a successful constitutional Government was established. George Washington Elected First President HE fourth of March 1789 was designated as the historic date upon which the Government of the United States, under the Constitution, was to have its inception. Prior to that date presidential electors, chosen in elections held in January 1789, selected George Washington to be the President of the new Nation. Much against his will, and reluctantly leaving a retirement which he had so richly earned, Washington accepted once more the call of his country. It is not without reason that George Washington is referred to as the "father of his country." He had provided the leadership and inspiration during the long years of struggle for independence. At the conclusion of the war he had retired to his much beloved Mount Vernon hoping to spend his remaining years in managing his estates and living the life of a country gentleman of his time. He was summoned from this retirement when a crisis demanded his reputation and leadership to prevent the collapse of the infant Nation, hopelessly struggling to launch itself under the Articles of Confederation. His contribution to the Constitutional Convention was monumental. It is true that his contribution to the draftsmanship of the great document was not important, but the weight of his reputation and the universal love and respect in which he was held were decisive in holding the convention together. It is not an exaggeration to say that without the influence of Washingon, it is extremely doubtful that there would ever have been a Constitution. Now once more and,, for the last time, Washington was to lead his countrymen again. The choice of Washington was not only logical and sound, it was imperative. 'The Constitution was adopted only after a long and bitter struggle. It was not until 1790 that all of the states had ratified it. It is open to question that even a majority of the people favored its LESSON DEPARTMENT adoption. It will be remembered that it was not submitted to the direct vote of the people, but was ratified in conventions of delegates chosen by the people. In an atmosphere of distrust harbored by a very large segment of the population, the manner in which the new Government launched itself was all important. It required the leadership of the one of its citizens who would be accepted by all without question or dovbt. That man was George Washington. Events were to verify the wisdom of that choice. By the time Washington finished his second term of office, the Republic was on sound and solid footing. 'The struggles which followed the time of Washington's administration were never able to destroy the foundations which had been laid under his great leadership. Establishing the New Government 'The new Government was to assemble at its designated seat in New York on the day appointed. It is an interesting observation of the difficulty of travel and communication of that day that the appointed day came and went and no government was_ established. The difficulties of travel were enormous, and the members of the new Government were unable to assemble on time. During the interim which followed there was literally no National Government. The old government had dissolved itseif and the new one was not able to take over. Legislative Branch Organized By April 6, 1789 there were suf- 48] ficient members of Congress in New York to organize the Legislative Branch of the Government, but Washington was not inaugurated until the 30th of April. The President's journey from Mount Vernon was a continuous ovation. It must have warmed his heart and filled him with emotion to see the love and devotion of his countrymen. Executive Branch Formed Washington formed the Executive Branch of the Government with a Cabinet of four members to head the four departments of the Government created by Congress. Since political parties were non-existent, Washington was able to choose whom he pleased to fill the Cabinet posts. He was beholden to no party for favors and consequently owed political debts to no one. What an enviable position for a political figure to occupy! No other President was ever destined to hold office under such circumstances. The Cabinet The Constitution makes no provision for the President's Cabinet as such. The framers assumed that the Senate would attempt to fill the role of advisor to the President. But the first Senate was reluctant to advise President Washington, and the effort to consult the Senate before appointments were made, or even pre-consultation on treaties, was dropped and never revived. President Washington began to call department heads into consultation meetings, called "Cabinet meetings.' 'The Cabinet is today, as it began, an informal group without legal sanction, its personnel de- 482 termined by tradition and the will of the President. The Cabinet meets only at the request of the President, has only the authority he vests in it, and may be dissolved if the President wishes. In practice it plays an important part in determining policy and coordinating administrative work. (See Constitution, Article II, Section 2, Clause 1; See Y. R. C., pp. 126-129. ) Traditionally the heads of executive departments compose the Cabinet. 'These departments were established by Congress in the following order: State (originally Foreign Affairs) in 178 Post Office (Post Master General 1789) in 1872 War, 1789 (incorporated into Department of Defense in 1947) Treasury, 1789 Justice (Attorney General, 1789) 1870 Navy, 1789 (lost Cabinet status in 1947). Interior (originally Home) 1849 Agriculture, 1862 Commerce (originally Commerce and Labor) 1903 Labor, 1913 Defense (National Defense established) 1947 Health, Education, and Welfare, 1952. For his Secretary of State Washington selected Thomas Jefferson of Virginia. For Secretary of the 'Treasury he chose the young and very brilliant Alexander Hamilton of New York. General Knox of Massachusetts was named Secretary of War, and Edmund Randolph of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Virginia as Attorney General. Knox and Randolph were not to play important parts; but Hamilton and Jefferson were to become the exponents of opposite philosophies of government which have continued into our own day to exert strong and continuing influence. Jefferson was "the most conspicuous... Apostle of democracy and one of the great liberals of modern times." Hamilton feared lax government as reflected in events transpiring in Europe and stood for strong government; but Jefferson placed his trust in the individual, and became the idol of American democracy. 'They formed about themselves the two parties of Democrats and Federalists. In the beginning the influence of the new National Government was barely felt. It moved slowly. It was Hamilton, who, in implementing the fiscal policies of the new Government, gave it impetus and directicn. The direction in which Hamilton led collided squarely with the opposition of Jefferson and to these two great Americans must go the credit for laying the foundations of what developed into the American political system. Congress Enacts Judiciary Act Before going into more detail concerning Hamilton and his activities, it may be said, in passing, that Congress enacted a Judiciary Act, thus giving form to the Supreme Court. The part which the Judiciary was foreordained to play in our constitutional system will be reserved for a later lesson. Suffice it to say at this point, the influence of the court was soon to manifest itself LESSON DEPARTMENT under the great leadership of John Marshall, the third and our greatest Chief Justice. Bill of Rights Approved and Ratified It was during this first congressional session that Congress approved sixteen Amendments to the Constitution, ten of which were ratified by the states to form the Bill of Rights. Hamilton Establishes Credit of Government The most serious and_ pressing problem of the Government was financial. 'The country was at peace and our foreign relations were slight, but the public credit was at a low ebb. Into the problem of establishing the credit of the Government on a sound and firm basis, Hamilton threw himself with energy and enthusiasm. Hamilton was only thirty-two years of age when he became Secretary of the 'Treasury. He had been a close associate of Washington and had been his aide during the war. He was a lawyer and brilliant in his profession, a leader of the bar of New York. Hamilton had rendered outstanding service in the campaign to secure ratification of the Constitution. Some of the most profound and brilliant essays in the Federalist were the products of his pen. Hamilton believed in a_ strong central government. He conceived government in its ideal form to be that composed of the wealthy and educated class and was, by nature, aristocratic and suspicious of popular government. It was his philosophy that if he could establish a strong National Government, able 483 to bestow favors upon the influential citizens of the country and protect the value of property, such a government would remain strong and withstand the assaults of the groups who would, for private and selfish reasons, seek to destroy it. Plan for Supporting National Credit Hamilton's opportunity came almost immediately upon his appointment to the Cabinet, when Congress requested him to submit a plan for the support of the national credit. Within three months' time Hamilton was ready with his plan. It was a master stroke of financial genius. It was proposed by him, first of all, that the entire foreign debt of the National Government— amounting to nearly $12,000,000 including interest—should be paid in full. He next proposed to settle the domestic debt of some $42,000,000 by issuing Government bonds bearing interest. 'The money received from the sale of these bonds would be used to pay off the domestic indebtedness dollar for dollar. Finally, he recommended that the Federal Government should assume the debts of the state governments in the amount of $25,000,000. The latter two suggestions, relating to the domestic and state indebtedness, raised a storm of protest. For example, some of the states had all but paid off their indebtedness; and there was indignation in those states at the suggestion that their reward for frugality should be to be given the job of helping to pay the debts of their less thrifty neighbors. In the states where those debts were large, it may be assumed that Ham- 484 ilton's suggestion met with enthusiastic support. Hamilton's suggestion set off a wave of frantic speculation in the purchase of the badly depreciated currency and securities of the country, whose value had sunk to about one-fifth of their face value. Speculators sent agents throughout the country to buy up as much as could be purchased before the news became general that the Government was going to redeem dollar for dollar. In this way there is no denying that a few people reaped great profits from their inside knowledge of the Government's intentions. Nevertheless, Hamilton's plan was sound; and its adoption soon resulted in great benefit and strength to the new Government. The method of paying off current public indebtedness by issuing longterm bonds bearing interest had been developed and used in England by English financiers with great success. Hamilton demonstrated his ability to deal with such questions with as much wisdom and understanding as that possessed by any of the Old World financiers of his day. In fact, it may be said that Alexander Hamilton has never been surpassed in his performance of the duties of the head of the financial department of our Government. Hamilton's next proposal was to create a central Government bank patterned on the order of the Bank of. England. His purpose in proposing this bank was further to strengthen the control of the Government over its securities and finances, and to lend solidarity and strength to the moneyed interests of the country. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Over great opposition the bank was created; but not until the Supreme Court of the United States, in the celebrated case of McCullough vs. Maryland, upheld the creation of the bank as within the constitutional powers of the Government. Protection of Domestic Industry and Manufacture Hamilton next went to Congress with his Report on Manufactures by which he set forth his arguments in support of the protection of domestic industry and manufacture by a system of tariffs. 'This report touched off an argument which has lasted into our own day concerning the endless debate between protective tariffs as opposed to free trade. Avoidance of Foreign Alliances by Washington In its foreign relations the new Government assumed a position of strict neutrality. Washington advocated an independent course in world affairs which would involve the country in as little dispute with other nations as_ possible. He shunned alliances and becoming embroiled in the disputes between European nations. Often, even under great provocation, the Govern- - ment refused to become so involved. It was Washington's belief and philosophy that the new Nation needed time to establish itself and become strong, and, if sufficient time could be obtained, the day would come when America would be so strong that none would dare attack her. On the other hand, there were many who would have been glad to take sides in the European quarrels, usually on the side LESSON DEPARTMENT of France, our old friend and ally. (Washington's foreign policy will be discussed in detail in Lesson 20 for April 1956.) The great wisdom of Washington regarding foreign entanglements and the financial sagacity of Hamilton which so successfully implemented the credit and financial strength of the country, were major factors in the success of launching the United States under its new Constitution. Every American should remember with great gratitude the service to freedom which was rendered by the first administration of the Government under Washington. Questions on the Lesson 1. For what reasons could the selection of George Washington as our first President be regarded as providential? 2, What was Hamilton's great contribution to the National Government? 3. Why was Hamilton's work of such great importance? Who were the founders of the American political system? Se Walk Beside Me Josephine H. Beck My child, Walk out into the new day, In the shining sunlight; Watch the seagulls glide Gracefully in flight. My child, See the mountains stand in glory Against the eastern sky; Hear the lark call at dusktime, When the lane of the stars is high, My child, Walk beside me for a little time, Learn the wonders of the land, And bind faith upon your heart; I cannot always hold your hand. 485 Choral Collections For Ladies Three Part Choruses Choral-Time—Marks.. 75 Library Collection No. 1—Fox 85 Auditorium Collection No. 1—Harms...75 Auditorium Collection No. 2—Harms...75 Auditorium Collection—Remick 75 Auditorium Collection—Witmark 75 Let's All Sing!—Stone --- 85 Let There Be Song!—Ehret 85 Showtunes—Schirmer -------:-1.00 Showtime Choral Collection No. 1— Chappell 222i eee eect eecee ec eeeeeeee 75 Showtime Choral Collection No. 2— T. B. Harms 75 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. CL] On Approval CL) Charge L] Money Enclosed 4 } 45°47 SpUTH MAIN 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «2260 WASHINGTON BIVD, Rneel to Your Child Christie Lund Coles a of us have seen children reaching their arms to mothers or fathers, seeking to be near them, and the parent be too occupied to notice, to take the time to bend down and give the child what he desperately needs — love and approval, a moment's safety from life, terrifying to a small one in an enormous world. On the other hand, who has not seen a parent — or loved one — kneel down with outstretched arms to the seeking child? If there is a lovelier picture, I have failed to see it. The power of the act was brought to my attention recently. A neighbor's small daughter was going to have breakfast with me. Her brother, four, came to the door and asked if he might eat with us. The girl — who had a right to be there because she had slept with me — told him he could not until he had obtained permission from his parents. The mother was ill and the father had worked that previous night, so it seemed doubtful either would be awake. Yet, he came back, saying his father had said it was all nght. So, the three of us ate happily together. However, the next day, the two children were on the lawn, when I came out. The girl said, accusingly, "Now, you go tell her you lied to her yesterday." The boy's eyes were wide and frightened and very near to tears, as he ran toward me, trying to smile, his arms outstretched, saying, "I lied to you yesterday. Daddy didn't say I could come for breakfast." I knelt down suddenly to receive him into my arms. I managed a smile as I told him, "That's too bad. But I'm sure you will not do it again. We'll forgive you this time." He clung to me there for a moment, then, he whispered, "I love you." I repeated the words and I think both of us, as well as the day, were a little better because of it. In our rushing I think we sometimes forget how good children innately are, how pliable, how easily molded. They learn much of their unkindness and thoughtlessness from us. When my daughter was a child, one day I foolishly said to her, "If you do that I shan't like you." She looked at me out of her complete innocence to answer, "Maybe I could do something so you wouldn't like me, but nothing you could do would make me not like you." I went down on my knees to her, then, to hold her close. It was easy. But there were other times when it was more difficult, though always I found our problem solved if I could reach down to her, look into her eyes and let her know how I loved her. Jesus has taught us to solve our problems by love. In my opinion this is particularly needed in problems involving children. Someone wisely said, "Children need love, especially when they don't deserve it."