[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 24 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

Last evening when I sat down to read my May Relief Society Magazine, my eyes filled with tears when I read the article "Mother," written so nobly by Sister Elna P. Haymond about my dear mother and grandmother. How proud they would be to know that one of their posterity could express herself so beautifully as lovely Sister Haymond has done.
—Aletha Handy
Franklin, Idaho

It was through an aunt of mine, with a beautiful mind and a heart of gold, that I came to know of The Relief Society Magazine. It is being sent to me every month as a Christmas gift from her. In the March issue, page 146, two little verses are printed that were sent in by Mrs. Irene O. Clawson of Hyrum, Utah. Those verses describe just what I feel, too, about our Magazine,
—Gwenneth Elizabeth Curtis
Skegness, Lincolnshire, England

We of the Zeist Branch in Holland are very thankful for the opportunity that we have had in receiving and enjoying The Relief Society Magazine, which we have been regularly receiving since the first of this year. We enjoy reading it very much, and even though many of the thoughts are lost through our weakness in the English language, we still gain many inspiring thoughts and maybe we can improve our knowledge of that language by making a study of it through the Magazine.
—Zeist Branch Relief Society
A. E. Van Zoeren-Spies, President
J. E. Apeldoorn-Jonker, Secretary
Zeist, Holland

I have used much of the material from the Magazine for various occasions and enjoy so much my calling as theology teacher and the inspiring lessons which are prepared for us to present.
—Ruth Johnson Devereaux
Inglewood, California

I was thrilled to find my Frances' poem "Let Me Hear Laughter" in the April Magazine and one of mine ("Reflective Artistry") in the same issue. Frances is my youngest child — nineteen years old. The May Magazine cover is exquisite. So is the inside cover picture ("Lilacs") facing Alice Morrey Bailey's lovely poem "Where Lilacs Grew."
—Mabel Law Atkinson
Dayton, Idaho

I always enjoy the stories in The Relief Society Magazine, but I thought the one in the April issue, "Steak for Thursday," by Rosa Lee Lloyd was especially good and timely. It put over a wonderful message that all young married women should keep in mind and have brought before them.
—Mrs. K. T. Anderson
Moroni, Utah

I so thoroughly enjoyed "Steak for Thursday" by Rosa Lee Lloyd in the April issue of The Relief Society Magazine that I want to write and tell you. Also, many of my friends have remarked how very nice the story was. I have read other works of Mrs. Lloyd and always thoroughly enjoyed them.
—Mrs. Ray Stewart
Los Angeles, California

I have been sent The Relief Society Magazine by my friends Mr. and Mrs. Ted Van Buren, Provo, Utah. Ted was one of the elders sent to our city, and we will never forget our association with him. I want you to know how much I enjoy the Magazine, and I wish you the best of success.
—Mrs. C. L. Black
Beatrice, Nebraska

This is my first year of taking The Relief Society Magazine, and I have really enjoyed it very much. I hope not to miss an issue for the rest of my days.
—Rosetta Reynolds
Blanding, Utah