[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science: The Constitution Established Albert R. Bowen 480]
460  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1955 
''Sacrificed!''  Agnes  exclaimed.  ''I  sides.    Tonight  we  were  really  going 
loved  it.     I  loved  teaching  and  be-  to  be  late  to  dinner, 
ing  able  to  help  my  family.  I  never  ''We'll    catch   it/'   we   yelled   at 
did  anything  with  the  thought  that  each  other. 
any  of  you  should  someday  feel  that  Green    Willows    whirled   by    on 
you  should  sacrifice  any  happiness  each  side  as  we  cascaded  down  on 
in  your  own  lives  in  order  to  repay  our   bikes.     Suppose  all   our   days 
me  in  any  way  .  .  .  ."  when  we  are  young  here,  go  by  that 
"I    know    that,"    Margaret    said,  f^^t,  I  thought.     My  heart  ahiiost 
"but  all  the  same  .  .  .  ."  stopped  with  fear  that  they  might. 
I  wanted  to  yell  the  words  out  to 
"I've  enacted  the  role  of  kin-of  Y>at,  but  I  couldn't  find  the  right 
a  sister,  and  that  is  all,"  Agnes  said  ^^^^      i  \oo]^q^  at  her  quickly  and 
shortly.    "Let's  drop  it  there.    How  ^^^   ^hat  her   smooth   brown   face 
could  any  of  us  be  happier  with  lo^j^gd  as  young  as  mine  must  be. 
what  we  have?    Margaret,  take  this  ^hese    days    will     never    end,     I 
tray  of  cream  puffs  and  put  them  in  thought.    They'll  go  on  forever,  or 
the    icebox,   will   you?"      Margaret  at  least  such  a  long  time  that  I  don't 
held  out  her  hand.    Agnes  held  the  ^ave  to  worry  about  it  now.  Besides, 
tray  for  a  moment,  looking  intently  ^n  ^f  ^  ^^^^^^^^  ^^  were  only  a  few 
at    the    pastry.     "That    was   funny  blocks  from  home,  and  we  had  to 
about  Jens,  though,  wasn't  it?"  she  ^^-^  coasting  and  start  pedaling.  We 
murmured.  stood  up  on  our  bikes  to  pedal  be- 
We  hurried  down  the  hill  on  our  cause  that  was  faster.     We  could 
bikes.     We  went  so  fast  that  the  smell  dinners  cooking  in  the  houses, 
wind  tugged  our  hair  and  our  feet  All  of  Green  Willows  was  getting 
couldn't  keep  up  with  the  pedals,  ready  for  dinner.     I   could  hardly 
We  held  our  feet  straight  out  at  our  wait  to  get  home. 
I  o  ■ 
cfoaaii   V(/e  Lricked  the  (^arrant  L^rop 
Zara  Sabin 
Today,  we  picked  the  currant  crop — 
Two  small  brown  hands  out-cupped,  held  all 
The  ruby-ripened  loveliness 
Most  carefully,  lest  one  should  drop. 
My  mind  raced  back  .  .  .  when  I  was  small^ 
Grandmother,  in  a  gingham  dress, 
Had  help  from  me.     My  unruly  mop 
Of  sun-browned  curls  was  scarce  as  tall 
As  the  currant  bush.     It  was  not  duress 
That  kept  me  there.     I  was  "her  prop/' 
"Her  good  right  hand,"  she  said,  "her  all." 
My  heart  beat  high  with  happiness 
And  childish  pride.     Time  does  not  stop. 
Too  soon  our  year  is  at  the  fall; 
Our  days  are  few  to  serve  and  bless — 
Today  we  picked  the  currant  crop!

From  The  Field 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbooi:  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Delia  H.  Teeter 
DENVER  STAKE   (COLORADO)   PRESENTS  WORD  PICTURE  OF  THE 
CONSTITUTION  "THIS  IS  FREEDOM,"  March  15,  1955 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Marlyn  Hess,  representing  a  housewife;  Charlotte 
Clifford,  an  American  citizen  of  today;  Helen  Henry,  a  citizen  of  tomorrow;  Blanche 
Pusey,  stake  social  science  class  leader,  who  gave  the  prologue  and  directed  the  program; 
Dorothy  Villalobos,  representing  the  armed  forces;  Elva  Wright,  representing  the  Relief 
Society. 
Standing,  at  the  right^  left  to  right:  Josephine  H.  Madison,  as  the  Constitution 
personified;  Louine  Cromar,  President,  Denver  First  Ward  Relief  Society,  as  a  citizen 
of  the  past. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Marjorie  Whitman,  organist;  Reta  R.  Beck, 
stake  chorister,  who  directed  the  music. 
Third  row,  standing,  at  the  right:  Delia  H.  Teeter,  President,  Denver  Stake  Relief 
Society. 
Fourth  row,  standing  at  the  right,  right  to  left:  Mollie  Richardson,  First  Coun- 
selor, Denver  Stake  Relief  Society;  Thclma  Robinson,  Second  Counselor,  Denver  Stake 
Relief  Society,  who  introduced  the  program. 
All  the  wards  in  Denver  Stake  participated  in  this  program  which  was  based  on 
the  word  picture  "This  Is  Freedom,"  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen,  a  member  of  the 
general  board  of  Relief  Society. 
Page  461

462 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1955 
Photograph  submitted  by  Naomi  L.  Brimhall 
RICHLAND   STAKE    (WASHINGTON)    SINGING   MOTHERS   FURNISH 
MUSIC  FOR  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE,  February  27,  1955 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Iris  Smith,  pianist;  Helen  Madsen,  stake  Relief 
Society  organist;  Anita  McCartney,  stake  Relief  Society  chorister;  Aiidra  Ord;  Naomi 
Brimhall,  President,  Richland  Stake  Relief  Society;  Lela  Lott,  President,  Walla  Walla 
Ward  Relief  Society;  Helen  Allen,  President  Sunnyside  Ward  Relief  Society;  Ethel  And- 
erson, President,  Richland  Third  Ward  Relief  Society;  Florence  Sylvester,  President, 
Richland  Second  Ward  Rehef  Society;  Florence  Jensen,  President,  Richland  First  Ward 
Relief  Society. 
Also  in  the  group  are  several  former  presidents  of  ward  Relief  Societies. 
Sister  Brimhall  reports  that  "Richland  Stake  Singing  Mothers  were  honored  to 
furnish  the  music  for  the  morning  and  afternoon  sessions  of  stake  quarterly  conference, 
which  was  attended  by  Elder  Walter  Dansie  of  the  General  Church  Welfare  Commit- 
tee." 
Photograph  submitted   by  Martha  C.   Eagar 
JUAB  STAKE  (UTAH)    NEPHI  SECOND  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACHIEVES 
A  ONE  HUNDRED  PER  CENT  RECORD  IN  VISITING  TEACHING 
FOR  FOUR  YEARS 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Louise  Vickers;  Mary  G.  Jensen,  Second  Counselor, 
Juab  Stake  Rehef  Society;  Delia  P.  Belliston,  Secretary,  Nephi  Second  Ward  Relief

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
463 
Society;  Verna  Wright,  former  First  Counselor,  Ncphi  Second  Ward  Relief  Society; 
Delta  Yates,  Second  Counselor,  Nephi  Second  Ward  Relief  Society;  Martha  C.  Eagar, 
President,  Juab  Stake  Relief  Society;  Edna  J.  Cazier,  theology  class  leader,  Juab  Stake 
Relief  Society;  Leta  Bryan;  Ellen  Greenhalgh. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Eva  Powell;  Florence  H.  Lunt;  Arvilla  Warren; 
Olive  Broadhead;  Mary  Belliston;  Emma  Lunt;  Delia  Stanley;  Louise  Leavitt;  Zelma 
Golden;  Lizzie  Black;'  Etta  Latimer;  LaRae  Kendall;  Hazel  Bosh;  Mildred  Brown, 
First  Counselor,  Nephi  Second.  Ward  Relief  Society;  Ida  Memmott;  Mildred  Green- 
halgh; Pearl  BelHston;  Thora  Pace;  Ethel  S.  Irons;  Lua  Stephenson;  Ida  Bellisto.n. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ethel  E.  Blomquist 
SWEDISH   MISSION   RELIEF   SOCIETY   DISTRICT   CONFERENCE 
Stockholm,  April  lo,  1955 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Marianne  Ternstrom,  President,  Stockholm  Branch 
Relief  Society;  Edith  Nilsson,  Stockholm  District  leader;  Ethel  E.  Blomquist,  President, 
Swedish  Mission  Rehef  Society;  Svea  Kinderstam,  visiting  teacher;  Ulla  Balck,  President 
of  the  newly  organized  Stockholm  Second  Branch  Relief  Society. 
Sister  Blomquist  reports  the  enjo}able  occasion  of  this  conference  which  was  held 
on  Easter  Sunday:  "Members  of  the  Norwegian  Choir  and  their  families  were  honored 
guests  during  our  conference,  singing  at  our  meetings  and  rendering  a  beautiful  concert 
during  their  stay.  A  number  of  our  Norwegian  Relief  Society  members  are  in  the  pic- 
ture. We  were  sorry  that  Sister  Gunderson,  Second  Counselor  in  the  Oslo  Branch 
Relief  Society^  who  gave  such  a  lovely  talk,  somehow  was  out  of  the  line  of  focus  for 
the  picture  and  so  cannot  be  seen  with  the  group."

464 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1955 
Photogi^aph    submitted   by    Vera   R.    Cantwell 
SMITHFIELD  STAKE  (UTAH),  NEWTON  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
BIRTHDAY  DINNER,  March  15,  1955 
Vera  R.  Cantwell,  President,  Smithfield  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  that  all  the 
women  in   the  Newton   Ward  received   an   in^'itation  to   this   dinner,   celebrating  the 
113th  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  Relief  Society  in  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  March  17, 
1842. 
t/i  QJnbute  to  the  Singing    1 1  iothers 
Ida  L.  Belnap 
".  .  .  yea,  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall 
be  answered  with  a  blessing  upon  their  heads"   (D.  &  C.  25:12). 
Oh,  Singing  Mothers  in  Zion,  a  part  of  Israel's  great  throng, 
Wondrously  sweet,  harmonious,  and  clear,  your  voices  carry  on. 
The  deep  rich  melodies  we  lo\'e,  and  messages  of  worth, 
To  gladden,  cheer,  and  brighten  all  this  saddened  earth. 
Yours  is  a  worthy  purpose,  yours  is  a  gift  that  is  rare, 
That  awakens  in  the  human  heart,  a  feeling  akin  to  prayer. 
The  music  sweet  revives  the  soul,  new  faith  to  us  is  given 
While  reverently  and  joyously,  we  taste  the  peace  of  heaven. 
Sometimes  you  tell  of  David,  sweet  singer  of  olden  times, 
And  then  again  your  voices  blend  in  modern  mystic  rhymes; 
You  take  us  to  the  utmost  heights  where  holy  temples  rise. 
It  seems  we  almost  feel  the  warmth  from  the  Master's  eyes. 
Oh,  mothers  old  and  mothers  young,  we  love  you  for  what  you  are. 
Your  courage,  faith,  and  dignity  in  lands  both  near  and  far. 
The  music  of  your  song  shall  live  in  worlds  that  are  to  be,
