[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Red WilHams]
siah 2:9).  Among  other  things,  he 
told  them  that  he  had  labored  with 
his  own  hands  in  order  to  avoid 
burdening  them  with  taxes,  and  in- 
formed them  that  he  wanted  them 
to  understand  that  ".  .  .  when  ye  are 
in  the  service  of  your  fellow  beings 
ye  are  only  in  the  service  of  your 
God"  (Mosiah  2:17).  So  it  was 
that  he  urged  them  to  serve  one  an- 
other. He  also  prophesied  concern- 
ing the  future  appearance  of  Christ 
(Mosiah  3:5-12).  He  also  taught 
them  how  to  activate  the  gospel 
principles  in  their  own  lives,  how  to 
make  their  religion  life-service  rath- 
er than  lip-service. 
And  also,  ye  yourselves  will  succor 
those  that  stand  in  need  of  your  succor; 
ye  will  administer  of  your  substance  unto 
him  that  standeth  in  need;  and  ye  will 
not  suffer  that  the  beggar  putteth  up  his 
petition  to  you  in  vain,  and  turn  him  out 
to  perish. 
Perhaps  thou  shalt  say:  The  man  has 
brought  upon  himself  his  misery;  there- 
fore I  will  stay  my  hand,  and  will  not 
give  unto  him  of  my  food,  nor  impart 
unto  him  of  my  substance  that  he  may 
not  suffer,  for  his  punishments  are  just — 
But  I  say  unto  you,  O  man,  whosoever 
doeth  this  the  same  hath  great  cause  to 
repent;  and  except  he  repenteth  of  that 
which  he  hath  done  he  perisheth  fore\'er, 
and  hath  no  interest  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  (Mosiah  4:16-18). 
Benjamin  concluded  his  address 
by  admonishing  the  people  to  watch 
their  thoughts,  their  words,  and 
their  actions,  and  to  exercise  faith 
in  the  future  coming  of  Christ 
(Mosiah  4:30).  He  took  the  names

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  469 
of  all  people  who  had  entered  into  people  were  granted  religious  liberty 
a  covenant  with  God  to  keep  his  at   a   time   when   monarchies   held 
commandments     and     take     upon  sway  over  the  eastern  world, 
them  the  name  of  Christ. 
Durhig  his  address,  Benjamin  ^^"^a  ^^^^  Younger 
named  his  son  Mosiah  to  become  Alma,  the  Younger,  son  of  Alma, 
their  king.  It  was,  perhaps,  during  was  the  first  chief  judge  and  high 
Benjamin's  reign  that  some  of  the  priest  in  this  democracy,  however 
Nephites  in  Zarahemla  became  rest-  recognizing  the  vital  importance  of 
less  and  were  ".  .  .  desirous  to  pos-  sound  religious  practices,  he  re- 
sess  the  land  of  their  inheritance,''  signed  the  judgeship  so  that  he 
the  land  of  Nephi,  then  controlled  could  devote  his  time  to  the  min- 
by  the  Lamanites  (Omni  21-30).  istry,  and  preach  repentance  among 
After  one  unsuccessful  attempt,  the  people.  Alma,  the  Younger,  in 
Zeniff  led  a  group  southward  to  the  his  early  life  had  been  associated 
land  of  Nephi.  This  little  colony  with  the  four  sons  of  Mosiah  in  try- 
made  peace  with  the  Lamanites  in  ing  to  destroy  the  work  of  God 
the  land  of  Nephi  but  were  ulti-  which  Alma,  the  Elder,  and  King 
mately  taken  into  captivity  by  Mosiah  had  so  zealously  endeavored 
them  (Mosiah  9:1-6).  to  build.  After  a  miraculous  con- 
version, however,  Alma  the  Young- 
Mosiah  er  became  one  of  the  greatest  mis- 
Later,  King  Mosiah,  son  of  King  sionaries  in  the  thousand  year  pe- 
Benjamin,  sent  sixteen  men  under  riod  of  Nephite  history.  He  became 
the  leadership  of  Ammon  back  to  a  great  doctrinal  preacher  and  re- 
the  land  of  Nephi  to  locate  Zeniff  former.  He  started  a  reform  move- 
and  his  colony,  who  previously  had  ment  in  Zarahemla,  trying  to  divest 
gone  there  (Mosiah  7:2-6).  They  his  people  of  their  envy  and  pride 
found  the  descendants  of  Zeniff  and  by  preaching  the  doctrine  that 
his  followers  in  captivity  because  of  Christ  should  come  and  redeem 
wickedness.  Previously,  Alma  the  mankind.  He  taught  them  that 
Elder  had  withdrawn  with  some  Christ  should  be  born  of  a  virgin 
righteous  followers  to  the  waters  of  who  should  ''conceive  by  the  power 
Mormon.  Alma  had  become  con-  of  the  Holy  Ghost"  and  that  Christ 
verted  through  the  teachings  of  should  redeem  mankind  from  their 
Abinadi.  (See  Mosiah,  chapter  17.)  sins,  provided  they  would  repent 
Alma's  followers  and  the  descend-  and  come  unto  him.  The  reform 
ants  of  Zeniff  returned  safely  to  movement,  started  in  Zarahemla, 
Zarahemla.  (See  Mosiah,  chapters  spread  to  Melek,  and  Ammonihah. 
22  and  24.)  King  Mosiah  gave  Al-  Alma  was  assisted  in  part  of  this 
ma  authority  over  the  Church.  missionary  work  by  Amulek,  who 
Before  his  death,  the  great  King  also  was  able  to  exercise  the  Priest- 
Mosiah  established  a  democratic  hood  with  much  power, 
form  of  government  among  his  peo-  Later,  Alma  and  seven  men,  in- 
ple  when  his  four  sons  refused  to  eluding  his  sons,  carried  on  mission- 
be  king.  (See  Mosiah,  chapter  29.)  ary  activities  among  the  Zoramites, 
In  the  Western  Hemisphere,  then,  whom   they   encouraged   to   follow

470 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1955 
the  true  spirit  of  prayer,  teaching 
of  Christ  and  his  power  to  redeem 
mankind.  Soon  after  his  return, 
Ahiia  reproved  his  youngest  son 
Corianton  for  his  wayward  conduct 
among  the  Zoramites,  and  com- 
mended his  son  Shiblon  for  his  pa- 
tience in  adversity  and  instructed 
him  to  bridle  all  his  passions,  to 
work  industriously,  to  be  temperate 
in  all  things,  and  to  set  his  life  right 
so  that  God  could  answer  his 
prayers. 
HeJaman 
Alma  gave  to  his  faithful  son 
Helaman  the  sacred  records  and 
other  sacred  objects  and  impressed 
him  with  the  magnitude  of  his  re- 
sponsibility as  custodian  of  these 
sacred  things.  He  taught  Helaman 
to  develop  in  the  people  an  ever- 
lasting hatred  against  sin  and  in- 
iquity, and  to  preach  repentance  and 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He
