[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 247 | Poem | Unsaid Words | Zara Sabin]
[Unsaid Words Zara Sabin]

And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do. When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side... And say, The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon" (Judges 15-18). When Gideon and his hundred men did blow on the trumpets and break the pitchers, Correlation Brings Blessings so did all, and together they shouted, 'The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon." The outcome of that mighty battle is recorded in one short sentence: "And they stood every man in his place..." (Judges 7:21), and the victory was won. Today, we are encamped against the greatest array of sin, vice, and evil ever assembled before our eyes. Such formidable enemies may cause lesser hearts to shrink or shun the fight. But the battle plan whereby we fight to save the souls of men is not our own. It was provided to our leader, even President David O. McKay, by the inspiration and revelation of the Lord. Yes, I speak of that plan which will bring us victory, even the Correlation Program of the Church. And as we do battle against him who would thwart the purposes of God and degrade and destroy mankind, I pray that each of us will stand in his or her appointed place, that the battle for the souls of men will indeed be won; that when life's race has been run, we may hear the commendation of the Lord, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord" (Matt. 25:21). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The strength of the mountain surrounds me— BEYOND THE Its majesty, towering, grand, Entices me ever to conquer FARTHEST RIFT Gladys Hesser Burnham The rocks of that craggy land— Ah! Only in spirit I'm reaching, Searching for thoughts to uplift EY loftier beckoning vistas Beyond the farthest rift.