[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 314 | Lesson | Summer Months Sewing Course | Eleanor Jorgensen]
Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion 2—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1967 Southern Hemisphere: December 1967 Objective: To show several ways in which a waistband may be INTRODUCTION The waistline of a skirt is generally finished with a band of self-fabric, an inside belt, or a built-up top. Since the first two are more commonly used, the latter will be omitted in this lesson. Prior to finishing the waistline, the skirt is fitted and all seams are stitched, pressed, edges finished and zipped placket completed. If a separate lining is to be used, it, too, is finished and basted into place at the waistline seam. Waistband—Method A (For cotton skirts using self-fabric for interfacing) Preparation: 1. Cut on grain a lengthwise strip of fabric 4144" wide and 3" longer than waistline measurement. 2. Make a lengthwise fold (toward wrong side) 114" wide. Press. 3. Machine-stitch raw edge of folded section (Figure 1). Attaching to skirt: 1. Connect right side of band (unfolded edge) to wrong side of skirt, placing pin at center front and allowing band to extend from this point beyond front placket opening 1". 2. Divide waist measurement in half. Measure and mark this amount 314 made and applied to the skirt. On the band starting at center front. 3. Pin measured band to center back of skirt. Pin skirt and band at intervals between these two points, distributing skirt ease evenly. 4, Measure amount of band needed on second half of skirt by folding the loose end of band back to the side seam. Mark this amount on the band, then place marked band on seamline of zipper edge, skirt back. Distribute ease and pin at intervals. 5. Repeat step 4 for band and skirt. 6. Sew band to skirt, band side up. Trim and press seams. 7. Fold right sides of band together and stitch across ends. (Front band is stitched straight up from placket line, whereas back band extends one inch or more and is stitched across the end and lower edge of extension.) 8. Turn band right side out. Pin to right side of skirt, top-stitching lower edge to skirt seamline. 9. Press. Sew on hooks and eyes, or finish with a button and buttonhole (Figure 2). Waistband—Method B (For wool skirts, using another fabric for interfacing, such as grosgrain ribbon, hymo, pellon, or taffeta.) * Preparation: 1. Cut a lengthwise strip of fabric approximately 3" wide, with one edge being the selvage. The length should be 3" longer than the waist measurement. Fold -O —. Raw Edge Seam Edge i (Figure 1) (Figure 2) I beng Inside View Seam Allowance + clip. (Figure 4) Fold DINAMO OTT COD DOT. Selvage -O (Figure 3); oN Hand-stitch I _ (Figure 5) (Figure 6) Inside (Figure 7) Outside Outside 315 (Figure 8) (Figure 9) April 1967 2. Press lengthwise fold so that it will be equal to the width of the grosgrain ribbon (or other interfacing used) plus 4%"-—!4" away from selvage edge. The remaining width (54") will be the seam allowance for attaching band to skirt. 3. On selvage side of band, place grosgrain ribbon to wrong side of fabric against fold. Machine-stitch both edges of interfacing to band (Figure 3). An additional row of stitching may be placed-in center if desired. 4. Mark waist measurement along band. Stitch ends with right sides together. On extension end, continue stitching along waistline to point. Where band will be attached to skirt. Clip seam allowance (Figure 4). Front end of band may be _ stitched straight or pointed (Figure 5). Attaching to Skirt: 1. With right sides together, pin band to skirt, allowing the extension to fall in line with the placket on skirt back. 2. Place skirt side down on machine and stitch band to skirt. 3. Grade seam allowances (skirt 14", band 3%".) Press seams toward band. 4. Hand stitch selvage edge of band to stitched seamline, using inside hemming to conceal stitching. Inside Belt: Materials needed: 1 yd. Grosgrain ribbon—%," or 1" wide—pre-shrunk if used on washable fabric 1 yd. Woven edge seam tape—4" wide Preparation: 1. Cut grosgrain ribbon five inches longer than waistline measurement. 2. On one end and on the inside of grosgrain, turn under one inch twice to form a 114" overlap. Stitch into place. 3. Curve grosgrain ribbon to fit waistline, shape properly by steam pressing, taking small darts, or running a temporary ease stitch on top edge. (Optional) On Skirt: 1. Check position of waist seamline. This is approximately 14%" beyond stay-stitching which has already been made 14" from cut edge. 2. Clip down to seamline on skirt front about 1%" over from zipper placket line. Tuck in seam allowance and slip-stitch edges together (Figure 6). 3. Cut seam tape to fit waist measurement. This is to be used as a stay tape. Finishing Waistline: 1. On wrong side of skirt, lap and stitch edge of seam tape to stay-stitching line, easing in skirt fullness. Turn raw edges under at placket line (Figure 7). 2. On right side of skirt, lap top edge of grosgrain ribbon slightly over line where seam tape was stitched, allowing. On one end a 114" overlap at the back placket line and turning under the other end even with the clipped seam of the front placket line. This places the waistband seam allowance between the seam tape and grosgrain ribbon. 3. Baste and check fit, then machinestitch close to edge of grosgrain ribbon (Figure 8). 4. Trim seam allowance so that it doesn't show beyond lower edge of seam tape. 5. Turn belt to inside, rolling upper edge of grosgrain ribbon 3%" below seamline, which now forms the fold. Press. Fasten belt at darts and seams with a hand-stitch (Figure 9). 6. Sew on hooks and eyes. REFLECTION Alverna Manning Allender When I! Met her, I pictured her dressed in cotton, In a humble cotage, baking cookies for fat, rosy babies. Her smile was sunlight reflected on a running brook; The shine and shimmer spilling over into her eyes, The ripple invading her laughter. 316
