[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 294 | General Feature | The Patient Soul | Rose A. Openshaw]
Patient Soul Rose A. Openshaw w The patient, unhurried soul is the approachable one, the inspired and inspiring. '"Always," someone philosophizes, "the highest culture springs from the patient heart!" Calmness and composure carry the hallmarks of exalted beauty, ever they are idealized, looked up to, admired. But what returm does one ever derive from impatience? Many can attest to the weight it breeds in the heart, the heaviness and sorrow, the unending despair. Due to it, loved ones often become separated for life—too often, too, for eternity. Sharp and evil its barbs are. Under the baleful influence of impatience, individuals stumble and fall. Impatience paves the way for despondency and is the forerunner of tragedy. Comeliness of face, with love and hope, melt away before its presence, bankrupting security. It is far too expensive for any mortal to invest in. Wherever it exists, whether in old or young, it is proof that that individual has not yet attained to a full maturity. Impatience darkens the vision, narrows the horizon, and always is branded with the weakling stamp of the novice. As opposed to this, patience wears the decoration of myriad graces. Forbearance and kindness, with cheerfulness, charity, and the cherishing of ideals shine there; always present is wisdom. Finding a patient individual is like finding hyacinths in the desert, where only thorns flourish. Bequeathing patience through example is infinitely more to be desired than bequeathing gold and rubies. Patience will endure, passing itself down through time's corridor unto the latest and last generation; whereas wealth, too often, is squandered, lost, or may become a source of evil and regret. He who controls his tongue, declares James (James 3), in effect, can control the whole being, even as the body of a horse is controlled by so simple a device as a bit in its mouth. And how beautiful the personality that controls it! Patience is a golden, glistening halo that beautifies, ennobles, endears. Would that we all might wear it!