[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 295 | General Feature | Sense of Wonder Nancy | M. Armstrong]
Sense of Wonder Nancy M. Armstrong Children are always curious about the world they live in. Because of this curiosity, a child's world is fresh, new, beautiful, full of wonder and exhilaration. Why, as we grow older, do we allow ourselves to become so matter-of-fact, so take-it-for-granted, so unimaginative, so lacking in enthusiasm, when, to keep the world exciting, we need only to retain or recapture our sense of wonder? Lack of wonder diminishes life, and we come to believe we could find excitement and beauty in some distant or different place only to discover that what we bring we find. The wonder and beauty must come from within. A sense of wonder gives us a lasting love affair with life by enlarging it. It teaches us to reach for adventure by keeping us curious about life. It is a splendid antidote against boredom for it brings novélty to commonplace experiences and glamor to our immediate surroundings. Wonder contains elements of beauty, astonishment, and appreciation. We can live in a world of radiant freshness, filled with surprises and have our hearts full of gratitude to God for his creation by keeping alive our childlike sense of wonder. 295 } > 5 onl I AAIMAA hs TTAKANRT f LAURE aa Anna Molenaar N Napier, New Zealand BANANA STEAMED PUDDING 3 oz. Butter 14 tsp. Baking soda 3 oz. Sugar 1 tbsp. Boiling milk 1 egg 4 oz. Flour 1 banana, mashed 14 tsp. Baking powder Lemon Sauce Juice 1 lemon 1 c. Water 1 tbsp. Honey 1 dessert spoon cornflour 34, Cc. Sugar (cornstarch) Cream butter and sugar, add egg, mashed banana, the soda dissolved in boiling milk, lastly add flour and baking powder. Put into greased bowl. Cover, steam 114 hours. Sauce Heat lemon juice, sugar, honey, and water. Thicken with cornflour (cornstarch). Delicious. Serves 6. APRICOT CAKE 1 c. Dried apricots, cut in thin slices 3 eggs 1 c. Boiling water 8 oz. Flour 6 oz. Butter 34 tsp. Baking powder 6 oz. Sugar Pour boiling water over the apricots and let stand while mixing cake. Cream butter and