[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 241 | Article | Inviolate | Lael W. Hill]
4 Inviolate Lael W. Hill Who once has loved, shall be with love forever. Here is no sulking bird that will depart Leaving the sky unsounded, or the river Unvisited at dusk. Love in the heart Will murmur quiet comfort to the lover So long as time shall flow, or heaven wait, Telling in small sure echoes, over and over, Who once has loved shall live inviolate. Whom love has lifted to a while of soaring, However brief, is now no more alone; Companioned by what was, and softly hearing The words love made, of wind, or rain and stone, Who once has loved, whom love has held enchanted, Henceforth goes always beautifully haunted. The Cover: Blossoms at Calumet Farm, Lexington, Kentucky Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Early Blossoms, Santa Clara Valley, California Photograph by Don Knight Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far Great is the joy I feel in writing to you. I have been led to do so by reading so many letters from our sisters in different parts of the world. The Magazine has been a great help to me in fulfilling my responsibilities, and it has brought consolation to my heart when I have been discouraged. Once when I was discouraged about something to present in work meeting, I picked up the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (June 1966) and my eyes were attracted to the page displaying the little girl with her doll both very beautiful, the little girl's dress and the doll's dress matching. It was just what I needed. I realized that it was an answer to my prayer. Susana Donoso de Villalobos Santiago, Chile For more than a quarter of a century I have enjoyed the contents of the Magazine. The past few months I have appreciated it even more because we have a fine contributor from our home town Alda L. Brown. The Richmond Ward is so proud of her. Her poem "August" (August 1966) and "Tree House" (October 1966) with the accompanying picture by Dorothy J. Roberts, were exceptionally good. I have never read a publication that has so many choice articles as our Magazine. Leona H. Carlson Richmond, Utah For many years the women of Argentina have been waiting for the Magazine in Spanish, and now that we have it, we feel closer to Relief Society. When we receive it, we can see the change in the spirit of our sisters. To show you how thankful we are, we will try hard to do our best in using the material we receive through the Magazine. Maria de Abrea Buenos Aires, Argentina We are on a mission for the Church in Switzerland and enjoy it very much. Our daughter Elizabeth ordered the Magazine for us, and we enjoy getting it. When I was the representative for the Magazine many years ago in the Thirty-Third Ward, Salt Lake City, I always told the sisters "Find time to read it, because every article in it is very choice." Being a cook, I especially like the recipe section. Anna Fassman Burgdorf, Switzerland May I express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine. It has been such a blessing to us, especially here in the mission field. These dear Philippine sisters express to us their thanks for the help the Magazine gives them. They enjoy the special features and love to recount the inspirational remarks that President Belle S. Spafford gave to us at our June 5th, 1966 conference, when she and Sister Florence Jacobsen were here. Hazel C. Huntington Makati, Rizal Philippines Mother and I were pleased to discover Dorothy J. Roberts' fine article (in December) on Danish cookery. Those recipes, which have been so important to the many among our people who have a heritage from Denmark, should surely be preserved and used. Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah It was a great pleasure to us to see our "Tin-Can Tree" displayed in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. My daughter and I thank you very much. We have received letters from friends and relatives saying they had seen the pictures and description. Gertrude P. Terry San Francisco, California Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ When the Savior walked the dusty pathways of towns and villages which we now reverently call the Holy Land and taught his disciples by beautiful Galilee, he often spoke in parables, in language the people best understood. Frequently he referred to home building in relationship to the lives of those who listened. He declared: "... Every... House divided against itself shall not stand" (Matt. 12:25). And then, in this dispensation, he cautioned: "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). At Kirtland he said, "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God" (D&C 88:119). Today the blueprint for building such a house is the Correlation Program of the Church. 244 In every quarterly conference during 1966, the executive leadership of each stake heard President McKay describe the very aim and purpose of correlation as he quoted the words of the apostle Paul: "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ" (Eph. 4:11- 13). To assist the women of the Church to attain this very goal, members of the Adult Committee of the Correlation Program, men and women of faith, of experience, of wisdom, and called of God by inspiration, have, with the members of the General Relief Society Presidency and members of your General Board, met together, fasted together, prayed together, studied together, planned together, and diligently worked together in the preparation of your courses of study and the development of every aspect of your excellent program. Knowing the strength of President Spafford and her co-workers, we expected full and _ wholehearted cooperation. Our expectations were more than fully realized. Indeed, the successful pattern for such cooperative effort has provided the guide for other auxiliary organizations to similarly proceed. We look backward with pride. We look forward with confidence. We know the results of such teamwork will be blessings in abundance for the women in the kingdom of God. May I enumerate but a few of the blessings correlation brings: BLESSING NUMBER ONE— The Blessing of Purpose: Correlation brings more fully to proper perspective the overriding objective for each of us to strive to become the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. We learn to do the right things for the right reasons and to "walk uprightly before the Lord." To achieve this end, the curricula in which women of the Church are involved present the principles of the gospel in such a way as to bring personal meaning to the individual, that she might be motivated to apply these gospel principles in her own life. This blessing of proper purpose is as a beacon light to guide our footsteps along the pathway to eternal life.