[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 249 | Special Feature | Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board of | Relief Society]
Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board w Reba Olsen Carling, a devoted Relief Society worker and experienced leader in all of the women's auxiliaries of the Church, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of Oluf H. And Jemina Sorenson Olsen, she was born in Monroe, Utah, and was graduated from South Sevier High School. Her education was continued at the Latter-day Saints Business College in Salt Lake City, and at the University of Utah. In Church work, Sister Carling served as president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in Rupert, Idaho, and she worked with her husband in the New England Mission, where he was district president; she was a teacher in Primary and in Relief Society in Sunset Ward, San Francisco Stake, and in the Relief Society in Fillmore, Utah. In the Indian Hills Ward, Salt Lake City, she was a member of the MIA presidency, and in the Monument Park Ninth Ward she was theology class leader. In Monument Park Stake she served as Relief Society president, and was an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple at the time of her call to the Relief Society General Board. Sister Carling's business training has been an asset to her in several executive positions, particularly in her recent work as executive secretary and personnel manager of a chain of retail stores in the Salt Lake City area. She is the mother of two sons and a daughter: Richard J. Carling, presently a member of the Utah State Legislature; Michael G. Carling, serving in the British Mission; and DeeAnn (Mrs. J. Clark Robinson). Sister Carling's husband, Junius J. Carling, was killed in an airplane accident in 1962, and she has loyally continued their plans for the education and Church service of their children. The members of Relief Society, wherever they will be privileged to meet and associate with Sister Carling, will be blessed through her faith and enthusiasm and her buoyant personality. She comes to her new appointment with the love and admiration of many friends and a host of fellow workers in Relief Society, and in the Church.