[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 299 | Fiction |  | Hazel M. Thomson]
"We have seven children in the first grade, four in the third, and six in the fourth; five in each of the fifth and sixth, and three Hazel M. Thomson in the eighth grade. We don't have any second graders or any in the seventh this year. That's good, isn't it?" Yes, certainly, thought Nora. Six grades would be better than eight. But six grades! It was overwhelming. The textbook supply was much better than she had expected. Each of the older students had a reader, an arithmetic book, and a speller. History and geography books were scarce, only one copy of each on the teacher's desk. Her own books would come in handy when they arrived. She worked for a time on a tentative schedule, realizing that it would require a great deal of changing as she became acquainted with her students, their abilities, and achievements. She would have to feel her way into the classwork and discover which of the grades might be able to work together in some subjects. 

299 April 1967

 She gathered copies of the textbooks and began to make lesson plans. It was late in the afternoon before she put down her pencil, sat back, and looked at the room. The high,' narrow windows were somewhat unattractive. Flowers would help. Mrs. Shepherd might be able to spare some slips from her geraniums. In the meantime, Nora wondered whether she might find some decorative weeds which might be fashioned into a winter bouquet. She slipped on her boots and coat. There didn't seem to be much of anything growing in the schoolyard, but behind the building she could see some plants sticking out of the snow just beyond the fence a little way. She left Ellen busily cleaning blackboards. The weed was strange to her, but it had a lovely seed pod on it, and a little farther on was a bush with some orange-colored berries on it. She must have some of those. The branches were prickly, but she managed to break off several nice ones. She was about halfway back to the fence before she heard something coming up fast behind her. As she glimpsed it over her shoulder, she started to run. It was the biggest beast she had ever had so near to her. As she ran she saw, on the schoolhouse side of the fence, someone coming. He vaulted the fence and ran toward her, grabbing her hand, and almost dragging her to keep up with his long strides. He pulled her over the fence and down on the other side, just inches ahead of two very long, sharp horns. 300 "What's the matter with you?" cried the man, and Nora became aware of a pair of very blue eyes. He picked up his hat now, from where it had fallen as he jumped the fence, and placed it on his dark red hair. Suddenly Nora felt very weak. The man grabbed her shoulders, and she wasn't certain whether he meant to keep her from falling or whether he had half a notion to shake her. From his tone, it was most likely the latter. "Didn't anyone warn you not to go over that fence?" he asked. "No," said Nora faintly. "It was so near! That cow came so "Cow!" The man threw back his head and roared with laughter. ""Now Pete Johnson wouldn't like that. He wouldn't like that at all, him going to all the trouble and expense of making a trip to Sanpete County to get that prize bull." He stopped laughing as suddenly as he had begun. "By the way," he said, "I'm Jed Oliver—Ben's brother. Well, not really his brother, but just the same as." Nora looked at the tall, hand- some man before her, thinking it no wonder that Ben idolized him. "I don't know how to thank you" she said. "I guess you know that you saved my life." "TI wish I had come by sooner and stopped you before you crossed the fence, but you were already in the field before I rode past and, saw you. I wasn't right certain this horse would wait for me, when I didn't take time to tie him, but I knew I had to get to you as fast as I could." Nora noted a look of real concern in the blue eyes. It gave her an unusual tingling kind of feeling. Then, in a very brief moment, the expression had left his face, and Jed Oliver had become very matter-of-fact. "Yl be getting along, now. I had bishopric meeting last night and left Ben the chores. I don't want to leave all the milking to him again tonight." "Ben spoke of you during our drive from the station," Nora said. "He thinks you're rather wonderful." Jed seemed pleased at her statement, but at a loss for an answer. Nora continued, "I should meet all the students' parents as soon as I can. I suppose meeting you is the same as meeting Ben's father." "No," answered Jed slowly, "it's not the same. Not the same at all. Ben's father was the wisest, kindest, smartest—well, just the finest man I have ever known, and the best friend anyone could hope to have." "He'd probably be saying the same things about you," said Nora, "if the situation were reversed." The Golden Chain Jed Oliver shook his head. "No," he answered. "He couldn't and be honest, and he would never have been anything else. It seemed as though he knew everything, while I... I just...." He stopped, and Nora felt that he had already said more than he had intended. She did not pursue the subject. "YT truly want to thank you," she said, looking down at the little bundle of branches and weeds she still clutched in her hand, that had been the cause of her narrow escape. But Jed Oliver didn't answer. He seemed to have retreated to somewhere far within himself. Nora felt a curiously cold change in his manner. With scarcely a nod he left her and walked toward his horse. The animal had not moved, and stood patiently at the hitching post, perhaps thinking he was tied. Jed picked up the rein he had dropped in such haste a short time before, put a foot in the stirrup, and swung lightly to the horse's back. "TI suppose the bishop will be coming for you?" he asked, as he turned his horse to the south. "No. Oh, he offered to, but I wanted to walk back. I must get used to walking. I can't bother anyone to drive me to school every day. I want to find out how far it really is when I walk it." "Far enough, you'll find in this snow," said Jed. "You can be sure of that." His horse tossed its head, anxious to be going, but still held in check by the reins in Jed's hand. "Here," he said, moving as if to dismount. "I'd better walk and you can ride as far as the Shepherd's on Old Duke." 

301 April 1967

 Nora stopped him with a movement of her hand. "I couldn't think of it," she said. "You've done quite enough already, and besides, I'm not finished with the work I must get done before Monday morning. Besides, I have Ellen working inside. We will go together." Jed did not argue and, as he rode away, Nora turned and entered the schoolhouse. From inside she watched him take off on a slow lope. She noticed how his body moved with the movements of the horse as if the two were of one piece. The horse's hooves kicked up great swirls of snow, as both horse and rider disappeared from. Sight. Tu first day of school went well for Nora. And so did the second and the third. The days passed and _ lengthened into weeks, and she had never been happier and more contented in her life. True, she was tired by Friday, and glad for the two day respite, but by Saturday afternoon her head was buzzing with ideas and she was eager to get back to the classroom to try them out. Not that there weren't problems. There were plenty of them. Two of the most difficult ones being two of her three eighth graders. Ben was a delight to teach. Joe Pine and Ed Johnson were something else again, both in ability and attitude. Nora won- 'dered, on occasion, why either of them bothered to come. "Why do they keep on coming to school, Ben?" she asked one night, as Ben cleaned the boards before leaving for home. "I'm not sure, Miss Blake," he 302 had answered. Know." "Maybe it's to get out of working at home," said Nora. "They come here and don't choose to work here, either, so I assume that work is a thing that neither of them likes very much." Then, there was Trudy. Her problem was somewhat different from that of the two boys. No, there was nothing lazy about Trudy. She had energy enough and to spare, and did all that was required of her in classwork and always a little more. Nora found that the child had a wonderful talent in her art work, yet never did Trudy neglect her other subjects for her beloved drawing. But toward Nora, Trudy remained cool and, at times, almost hostile. When listening to a child read alone to her, Nora often found herself with an arm around the child's shoulders. Most of the younger children would move close to her and seem more relaxed as the reading continued. Not so with Trudy. If she so much as put her arm across the back of Trudy's chair, the child would wriggle and twist uncomfortably until Nora would remember and move the offending arm. Nora wracked her brain for ways to build a bond of friendship with Trudy, but her efforts seemed to all be doomed to failure. Then an opportunity came. Nora had attended meetings with the Shepherd family regularly since her arrival. On the Sunday before Thanksgiving, she dressed carefully in a blue velvet dress she had made just before coming West. It was a beautiful light color and perhaps the very loveliest dress she had, and "IT really don't Trudy's sense of the artistic did not fail to appreciate it. On this particular Sunday, the child was sitting between Nora and Mrs. Shepherd. During one of the lengthy sermons, Nora felt Trudy's hand sliding back and forth, back and forth, on the dress material, where it spread out on the bench between them. Nora kept her eyes determinedly on the speaker. Then, wishing that she hadn't, even as she did so, Nora allowed her eyes to glance over at Trudy. Quickly Trudy drew her hand away. Instantly Nora regretted having let Trudy know that she was aware of her feeling the dress material. It was one of the very few contacts between the two of them that Trudy had initiated, and again Nora felt that she had failed. I was at the supper table that evening that Bertha Shepherd mentioned the fact that she had been unable to get material enough to make both of her girls a new dress for the holidays. "There'll be enough for Ellen, and, after all, Trudy, she is the older. Ill get. A piece of goods for you just as soon as Brother Long gets some more yard goods in at his store over in Mountain View." Nora watched Trudy and saw the small chin quiver just a trifle. "I don't care!" Trudy declared. "I don't care! I just wish I was a boy!" And she jumped from her chair and ran from the room. Immediately, Nora knew what she must do. It meant sitting up late at nights after the children were in bed and treading Mrs. Shepherd's sewing machine until The Golden Chain a late hour. By Thanksgiving day, Nora had another blue dress, just as lovely as the other one had been, but in a somewhat smaller size. That morning, with delicious aromas following them all the way upstairs, Nora asked Trudy to come with her to her room. Nora took the dress from the closet and spread it out on the bed. Trudy moved close and stared. Then she reached out one hand and touched the dress as she had done in church. "I really brought too many dresses," said Nora. "If you'll move this one into your closet, mine won't be quite so crowded." Nora picked the dress up and placed it in Trudy's arms. "A girl needs a new dress with Thanksgiving and Christmas so near together. After all, you can't help it, that you're not a boy." Trudy stood there holding the dress, her dark eyes shining. "And you can't help it that you're not Miss Amy," she said. Snow had come early in November the day Nora arrived but it was not until the Monday following Thanksgiving that the big blizzard came. The snow swirled in from the northeast and beat against the schoolhouse windows until they were completely covered over. Nora felt a sudden chill in the room. Ben noticed it, too, and got up to put in a lump of coal, together with a stick or two of oak to hurry the slow burning coal along. The next few moments seemed a nightmare. At the time, Nora had no idea what caused it. Ben had filled the water pan on the back of the stove at noon, the 

303 April 1967

 one Mr. Shepherd had warned her several times about keeping full. There was a huge lid on top of the stovepipe where it curved to enter the north wall. Nora had watched it with some apprehension since the bishop first warned her that, under certain conditions, it could blow off. This was one of those occasions. The lid flew up and hit the ceiling and fell, banging onto the top of the stove and down onto the floor. Soot was blown into every corner of the room. Nora's desk, her dress, her hair, and her face were covered. Tae younger children began to whimper. That is, all except Trudy Shepherd. It would take more than a covering of soot to frighten Trudy. "Look, teacher!" she cried. "We're all black in the face!" Ben, as usual, was her comfort and support. He was at her side in a moment. "It's all right, now," he said. "Don't worry about it. 've seen this happen before." "What made it explode, Ben?" she asked. "That's just what I'm wondering," he said. He walked over and picked up the lid and looked at it a long moment. Nora followed him and saw that he was staring at a place on the edge of the lid that looked new and shiny as though the lid had been pried loose. She knew that both she and Ben were thinking of the two boys who were conspicuously absent on this particular day. Outside, the wind was rising, telling of an increase in the fury of the storm. "I'll drive the others home," 304 Ben said. "The storm is getting worse. Then I'll be back as soon as I can to help you clean up." "I'll manage, Ben," she said. "Take the children, but don't worry about coming back. You have your chores to do." There was a mad scramble for coats, mittens, scarves, and boots, while Ben went to hitch up his team. Nora stood at the door and watched the sleigh leave, the children sitting on the hay, tucked under blankets to keep off most of the falling, swirling snow. Nora shut the door against the chilly blast and turned to her desk to survey the damage. Her disappointment was keen. She had tried so hard to win the confidence of both Joe and Ed, and this practical joke was their answer. She dropped down in the chair at her desk, overwhelmed by the task before her. Jed Oliver's words from his sermon of a recent Sunday came to her mind. "What kind of pioneers would we have been?" he had asked. "Most of us here moved in after some houses were already built. We found farms already cleared, and water in the ditches, just waiting to be turned onto the land. I wonder about it, sometimes. Why, I rode in here and had a roof over my head that very first night. I didn't have to rough it, like those who came first. Yes, I wonder. What kind of pioneer I would have made." Suddenly, Nora began to laugh. She laughed until two big tears found their way down her cheeks through the soot. She wiped them away with a smear of her hand as she arose and took the broom from her closet. She had brushed off the desks and had the floor almost swept, when she heard sleigh bells. She thought to herself that Ben had made a quick trip. Now the two of them could finish up the scrubbing. She filled a pail with water from the reservoir on the back of the stove. She stood with her back toward the door as she wrung out a cloth in the soapy water. "You needn't have come back, Ben," she said. '"You have your chores to do." "That's right, Miss Blake," said a deep voice. "Ben has both his chores, and some other things to do. He said he'd be awhile before he could come. But he was so worried about things here at the school that I promised I'd come and see what I could do to help out." Nora's heart skipped a beat as she recognized the voice. As she turned, she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror above the — — eas Cee ee ectertaneremn ste ot IN EP alta ce Ostet cs m Ml The Golden Chain washstand. For the moment, she had forgotten what a sight she was, her face streaked with soot and tears, and her clothes covered. - He better not laugh, she told herself. He just better not! If he does, he'll get this whole bucket, right down on that handsome red head. Doesn't like schoolteachers! Well, here's one he may wish he'd never even seen. He couldn't have known her thoughts, but he came quickly and took the bucket in his own hand. "Let me take that," he said. "I'll wash off the desks while you get some water in the wash basin and do your face. You'll feel better, I'm certain. Then I'll scrub the floor." "Scrub the floor?' Nora did not attempt to conceal her amazement. Even Bishop Shepherd, who could change the baby, wash the dishes, and hang out the wash, had not, to her knowledge, ever scrubbed the floor. "Of course, scrub the floor," repeated Jed, bringing the big mop from the closet. "Who do you think scrubs our floor, mine and Ben's? You think he does everything?" Nora made herself as presentable as she could and helped finish wiping off the desks and seats. Then she helped clean the floor. They were almost finished before Ben returned. Ed Johnson and Joe Pine were with him. "Jed!" exclaimed Ben. "Gosh, I'm glad you made it. It took me longer than I planned. I saw Ed and Joe and we—they—well, we talked, and they decided to come along and help, too." "How thoughtful of you," said 

305 April 1967

 Nora to the boys, standing just inside the door and looking uncertainly at her. "Here, Ed, you are the tallest. You start on the top windows and Ben and Joe can work on the bottom ones. We'll have things fixed up in no time." Things did seem to be getting fixed up, more things than just the schoolroom. With a little good-natured joking going back and forth, Jed soon seemed to have the two boys actually enjoying their work. Under cover of their bit of fun, Nora motioned to Ben, and in the supply closet she whispered to him. "TY know you didn't find them volunteering to come and help clean up this mess. I know as well as you do who caused it. I wonder whether you ought to try and cover for them." Ben thought a moment. '"'Are you going to tell Bishop Shepherd?" he asked. ''He'd be the one, I guess, 'being President' of the Board,. If you think they have to know." "I'm not sure," answered Nora. "I don't think I will. At least not right away. Let's see how things work out." When the job was done, Nora thanked the boys and the three of them left together, in high spirits. Jed was ready soon after to follow them. As he passed Nora's desk, he paused and ran a big hand over. The row of books she kept on top. "Seems as if the school has more books than it used to have," he said. "These are my own," Nora replied. "And I have some others still in the boxes that Ben brought with the mail last week that I haven't had time to unpack yet. They're right here in the closet. I imagine you have a lot of time in the winter evenings to read. Would you like to borrow some of them?" "No! No! I... Just... That is... No!" He left hurriedly, and Nora, puzzled by his sudden strange behavior, remembered too late that she hadn't even thanked him for scrubbing the schoolroom floor. (To be continued)? GOING — UNAWARE Pearle M. Olsen Too often they go on ahead, alone, Without knowing. Our tardy thoughtfulness. They leave us smarting under pricks, unknown When we let good intention flower From the budding thought; when we profess Affection while they are sensitive To knowledge that someone they love will care When waning strength severs a tie to here And they go on alone, somewhere! Postponing of a timely word and visit Makes weightier the going——unaware! Yy 306 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.