[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 244 | Special Feature | Correlation Brings Blessings Thomas | S. Monson]
Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ When the Savior walked the dusty pathways of towns and villages which we now reverently call the Holy Land and taught his disciples by beautiful Galilee, he often spoke in parables, in language the people best understood. Frequently he referred to home building in relationship to the lives of those who listened. He declared: "... Every... House divided against itself shall not stand" (Matt. 12:25). And then, in this dispensation, he cautioned: "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). At Kirtland he said, "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God" (D&C 88:119). Today the blueprint for building such a house is the Correlation Program of the Church. 244 In every quarterly conference during 1966, the executive leadership of each stake heard President McKay describe the very aim and purpose of correlation as he quoted the words of the apostle Paul: "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ" (Eph. 4:11- 13). To assist the women of the Church to attain this very goal, members of the Adult Committee of the Correlation Program, men and women of faith, of experience, of wisdom, and called of God by inspiration, have, with the members of the General Relief Society Presidency and members of your General Board, met together, fasted together, prayed together, studied together, planned together, and diligently worked together in the preparation of your courses of study and the development of every aspect of your excellent program. Knowing the strength of President Spafford and her co-workers, we expected full and _ wholehearted cooperation. Our expectations were more than fully realized. Indeed, the successful pattern for such cooperative effort has provided the guide for other auxiliary organizations to similarly proceed. We look backward with pride. We look forward with confidence. We know the results of such teamwork will be blessings in abundance for the women in the kingdom of God. May I enumerate but a few of the blessings correlation brings: BLESSING NUMBER ONE— The Blessing of Purpose: Correlation brings more fully to proper perspective the overriding objective for each of us to strive to become the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. We learn to do the right things for the right reasons and to "walk uprightly before the Lord." To achieve this end, the curricula in which women of the Church are involved present the principles of the gospel in such a way as to bring personal meaning to the individual, that she might be motivated to apply these gospel principles in her own life. This blessing of proper purpose is as a beacon light to guide our footsteps along the pathway to eternal life.
Correlation Brings Blessings BLESSING NUMBER TWO— The Blessing of the Priesthood: Correlation teaches that the Priesthood is the central power in the Church and the authority through which the Church is administered. It is the means by which members of the Church can participate in saving ordinances. These truths form the thread from which the fabric of your curricula is woven. With our programs being Priesthood centered, and your courses of study correlated with those of the Priesthood and Family Home Evening Program, we eliminate the weakness of a woman or a man standing alone, and substitute, therefor, the strength of husband and wife walking hand in hand together. BLESSING NUMBER THREE— The Blessing of Home Emphasis: The First Presidency has often declared, "The home is the basis for the righteous life, and no other institution can take its place nor fulfill its essential functions." This inspired declaration is held uppermost in the minds and hearts of all who have a part in the preparation of your program. The curricula prepared for adult women open a new vision of the possibilities of a woman as homemaker. It has been said of mothers, "The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." In reality such hands do much more; for mother's hands, mother's heart, and mother's influence guide sons and daughters and assist their father and her husband to gain the cherished goal of exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, to live with him who not only ac- 

245 April 1967

 tually rules the world, but who created it in the first place. Family prayer, Family Home Evenings, coupled with the aid of effective home teaching from inspired and prepared home teachers, can bring the blessings of heaven to our homes here on earth. Such correlated activities teach family members to think of others first and self last. Indeed, we practice in our lives the principles taught by Robert Woodruff, an American business tycoon, and labeled by him as "A Capsule Course in Human Relations." He said: The five most important words in the English language are these: I AM PROUD OF YOU. The four most important words in the English language are these: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION? The three most important words in the language are: IF YOU PLEASE. The two most important words are: THANK YOU. The least important word is: I. BLESSING NUMBER FOUR— The Blessing of Balance: Correlation seeks to eliminate overlap and duplication of effort. All the curricula of the Church are so correlated that we are working together as members of a single team. The personal exaltation of the individual is paramount. Meetings become not an end in themselves, but the means to the desired end. Literature, art, and music are brought together in a way which permits them to complement the teaching of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And through it all 246 your noble field of compassionate service is not submerged. Rather, it is exalted. In the spirit of the Master you continue to—... Gladden the lonely, the dreary; Comfort the weeping, the weary; Scatter kind deeds on your way; Make the world brighter today! BLESSING NUMBER FIVE— The Blessing of Unity: Closely allied with the blessing of balance is the blessing of unity. Occasionally, destructive competition characterizes the work of our various organizations. Correlation transforms competition to cooperation. We are brought to the realization of the truth, "... If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). Though our objectives may at times appear unattainable, though the resources of that evil one loom overpowering, and though discouragement threatens, and weaknesses handicap, yet that blessing brought by correlation—even united effort— will bring us the victory we so much seek. We can take strength from the example of Gideon. You will remember how Gideon and his army faced the overwhelming strength of forces vastly superior in equipment and in number. The Holy Bible records that this united enemy, the Midianites and Amalekites, "lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude." Fear must have penetrated each heart among Gideon's followers. But their leader went to Almighty God for his strength. To his surprise, Gideon was advised by the Lord that his forces were too many in number for the Lord to deliver the enemy into their hands, lest they say: "Mine own hand hath saved me" (Judges 7:2). Gideon was instructed to proclaim to his people, '""Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand" (Judges 7:3). But the Lord said, "The people are yet too many..." (Judges 7:4). Through the test of drinking of the water, but three hundred men were selected to remain and fight the enemy. After again praying, Gideon said, "Arise; for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitche
