[Vol54 | April 1967 | Page 298 | General Feature | Flowers Inside and Out | ]
FLOWERS INSIDE AND OUT Sarah E. Allsworth Peterson, Sebastopol, California, is an artistic and experienced gardener. Her yard is a delight to friends and neighbors, with whom she willingly shares her plants and her extensive knowledge of growing things. Roses, fuchsias, chrysanthemums, violets, and many other flowers are a profusion of beauty and vigor in her garden, but there is not a spot for a single weed. Her patio is banked with flowers, where neighbors often gather, and where friends come to be uplifted spiritually and emotionally. Sister Peterson's home is an example of neatness and order. A guest never leaves without a jar of jam or jelly, a plant, a vegetable for dinner, and always with a lighter heart. She has worked in the Church all her life in various capacities, having been twice a ward Relief Society president. Now, in her eightieth year, she is still an effective and much-loved visiting teacher, after fifty-eight years in this calling. Last year, at the ward Relief Society bazaar, space was given to Sister Peterson for a plant bar. She made beautiful flower arrangements and unique plantings which added greatly to the interest and financial success of the bazaar. 298 Chapter 3 Synopsis: Nora Blake, having no family ties after the death of her mother, secures a_ schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. Ws Nora sat at the desk and tried to recall what she had learned at Normal College in regard to the first day of school, but her thoughts were in a turmoil. At the moment, she could not remember much of anything that had taken place in any of her classes. She hoped this was not going to be a permanent situation, and that as she actually got into teaching, her memory would furnish her with the things she would need. "Here is the roll book in the top drawer, Miss Blake," said Ellen.