The Home Science lessons will treat on conservation of food, taking up as subjects: Plain Facts about Food, Spring Vegetables, Economy and Methods of Preparation; Cereals: rice, v/hole wheat flour, rye and corn bread, and bread-making; Products and by-products of the Dairy; Review of Canning and Drying lesson; Beans, peas, lentils and meat; Conservation of Clothing; Textiles and Fabrics, Choice and Care; Shoes and Hose; Conservation of Health of Children: Health the Best Gift; Conservation of Peace within; Christmas and the Prophet's Birthday. Because of the pressure upon our time and energies through war activities, added to the regular heavy responsibilities of our Relief Society work, the Board has decided to relieve the situation somewhat by discontinuing for this year, at least, the study of Literature. We hope the result will justify our action. Very few books need be purchased in the lesson work for the corning year. All our people have the sacred history of the Nephites, and we trust that all of our members have in the home, George Reynolds' Story of will follow his work in some the Book of Mormon, as our detail. Lists of U. S. Bulletins lessons suitable for the Home Science lessons will be given to be distributed from the Washington office of Senator Reed Smoot. Our new surname book has grown to such proportions and 714 RELIEF SOCIETY* MAGAZINE. so many difficulties have had to be overcome, that we are unable to present it to you for a little time longer. However, students w ill find help for this year's lessons in any good general history. Encyclopedias and geographies will serve as text books for the Facial History lessons. May the Lord add his blessing to all our earnest students, class teachers, officers and members of the great Relief Society. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in January. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in January. RACE HISTORY. Disobedient Races Descended from Shem. Not all the descendants of Shem were obedient to his teachings and to the principles of the gospel. Many of them fell away from time to time and some became great nations. Therefore, in this lesson those ancient Semitic nations which might be called "gentile" nations in contradistinction to obedient Semites, afterwards called the Hebiews, we shall here consider. We must call the attention of the student to the fact that we will not be able in this racial history to carry along our studies in a general or world-history chronological order, for the nations which grew out of the three great racial divisions (Semites, Hamites, and Japhethites conquered and were conquered by each other at various times, and very often under similar circumstances. However, we shall take each race down chronologically, in the various lessons, as they developed into nations, and leave the student to join together the historical events in review questions and by the aid of maps and a study of general ancient history. Assyria. Up in the northern part of the Valley of the Tigris (2250 B. C. to 600 B. C.) were the Assyrians, descendants of Asshur son of Shem. Tiglath-Pileser I in 1130 B. C. conquered the southern provinces and visited the warring Assyrian tribes. Sardanapalus followed him, and then Tiglath-Pileser II conquered Babylon. Syria and Judea. The Assyrians had founded the great GUIDE LESSONS. 715 city of Ninevah, which for a long time was simply a province of Babylonia; but in 728 B. C, Babylonia was conquered by an Assyrian and passed under Assyrian control. The Assyrians had local deities, each city having its own patron god. They believed in magic rites and incantations, in astrology, and they were great astronomers also. The fame of the Chaldean scholars and astrologers spread throughout the ancient world. They were the most cultured of the very ancient races. They possessed great learning in astronomy and mathematics and also patronized art and literature. The enormous mounds on the Babylonian plains have been excavated during the last 50 years with wonderful results. The Temple Library  written on clay tablets, unearthed at Nippur has uncovered a new world for moderns. Sennacherib (705 B.C.) and Asshur-Bani-Pal in 668 B.C. were the greatest monarchs of Nineveh for six centuries. The Ninevite or Assyrian kings ruled the East from about 1100 B. C. on to 625 B. C.  but in 606 B. C. Nineveh was taken and sacked by the Medes and Babylonians. Two hundred years later (400 B. C.) Xenophon with his 10,000 Greeks passed the desolate spot of crumbling ruins and did not even learn at that time the name of the great city of Nineveh. The old Babylonian Empire, or Chaldea, was founded soon after the confusion of tongues, about 2200 B. C. This Chaldean empire declined and was incorporated in the Assyrian empire. Media and Chaldea or the old Babylonian kingdoms rebelled against the Assyrians and became an independent kingdom. Sargon II, who reigned 722 B. C, filled the whole earth with his glory. He claimed descent from the Semitic king Sargon I, king of Babylon. Babylon was again conquered by Cyrus the Persian in 538 B. C, riding into the fortified capital of Babylon and subduing it. The Persian Empire. The Persians are descendants of Shenvs son Elam. After the destruction of Nineveh, the Medes and Persians were amalgamated, rose rapidly and founded a world empire. Cyrus the Great, 558 to 529 B. C, built up the greatest empire of ancient times. Darius the First, 484 B. C, conquered northwestern India and then went over into Europe and undertook to conquer the Greeks who had just risen into greatness as a nation. Darius was defeated at the Battle of Marathon, 484 B. C, and died. His son Xerxes headed an immense army and attempted to cross the Hellespont and invade Greece. He too was defeated, and in 334 B. C, Alexander the Great crossed the Hellespont and conquered Asia. Raees in Babylon. Tt is puzzling to decide which race lesson 
 shall contain the history of such nations as Babylon and Egypt, tor the city of Babylon was most probably built up by Ofimrod, grandson of Mam. and the great Tower was erected under his direction. Yet later heavy invasions of Semite  they were the disobedient descendants of Shem  came into Babylonia and the first great king, Sargon, of whom history speaks, was called a Semitic king. Therefore, we shall include the brief history of Babylon in this chapter, reminding our students of the constant mixing" and intermarriage of these ancient peoples. The Hebrews were the only ancient people, who kept their racial strain at all free from surrounding nations. Ancient Babylonia. Like the Nile valley, the long stretch of country watered by the Tigris-Euphrates, is dependent upon those waters for life and population. The first records of Babylon are set by scholars about 5,
 lie was contemporary with Abraham and no doubt Mesopotanlian lands were then filled with city states like those later found in Greece and Italy. This chronology is not accepted by us, but we present it here because the books give it thus. Each city had its patron god and was ruled by a king. Again the mind turns to the records of Moses in the fifth chapter of Genesis where Cain himself built the first city and named it after his son Enoch. The first king named by these modern clay records is Sargon the Eirst, who is called a Semitic king of Agade (3.700 B. C). How a king could lie called by historians a Semitic king when Shem was not born until 24-10 B. C. is some thing of a mystery. Sargon built up a powerful state in Babylonia and extended his ruling to the Mediterranean. He was a patron of letters and established mammoth libraries of clay tablets which are the oldest and most valuable libraries of the ancient world. Hammurabi. How insignificant a reminder of Flam is the name  Hammurabi was a famous ruler who reigned about 2000 B. C. He was cotemporary with Abraham and no doubt received much of his inspiration from that great prince. He has been identified by some writers with Chedorlaomer who formed a confederacy with Abraham. Hammurabi promulgated a code of laws which in some respect is remarkably like the Mosaic code of the Hebrews. We affirm that his inspiration must have come from the Patriarch Abraham instead of Abraham receiving his from a pagan king to hand on down to his posterity. For 1500 wars after Hammmurabi Babylon continued to be a great political and commercial empire. The Arabians. The country which lay in that portion of western say lying south and east of Judea, was settled up  if one could call it settled by the Tshmaelites, descended through GUIDE LESSONS. 717 Abraham from Shem and by other tribes such as the people of Kedar, all of whom led a wandering life, having no cities or houses or fixed habitations, but living wholly in tents. These people are now called Bedouins. In Arabia, south, the Edomites, descendants of Esau, and the Amalakites and their branches of the house of Esau, dwelt in constant conflict. There are, according to native historians, two races of Arabs: those descended through Joktan through Eber, Salah, Arphaxad and Shem, and these who claim Ishmael as their ancestor. There were also in Arabia, descendants of Cush, son of Ham. Added to these tribes were some of the descendants of Lot through his two ill-begotten sons, Moab and Ammon. In ancient times the Arabs were idolators and star worshipers. A form of Christianity made some progress in the third century amongst these tribes. They are now, however, nominally Mohammedans, but their religion sits but lightly on them. Isolated from other nations, and with slight exceptions, free from all foreign control, their ancient customs and habits are still retained and their language is comparatively the same as it was in ancient times. Not until the year 622 A. D. was there very much history made by this people. Then came the great Arabian prophet Mohammed. His spectacular and magnificent history is familiar to students. He was 40 years old when he assumed the office of a prophet and teacher. He taught that both the Jewish and the Christian religions were of divine origin, yet that God had given to him "a clearer and more perfect revelation. Indeed, as he phrases it, "There is but one God and Mohammed is His prophet." He gave many revelations and prepared the Arabian Bible called the Koran. These revelations were diligently recorded by the prophet's disciples, on dried palm leaves and on the shoulder bones of mutton, and one of his wives kept the sacred chest in which they were preserved. At his death they were collected and published or written by command of his successor, and thus we have the Koran. Mohammed's tenet was a belief in fate. His heaven was a very personal one filled with beautiful women and idle men. Says the Koran: "The sword is the key of heaven and of hell. A drop of blood shed in the cause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail than two months of fasting and prayer. Whoever falls in battle, his sins are forgiven." Mohammed died in 632 A. D. and his tomb is still an object of sacred pilgrimage. In 636 the Saracens, as the mixed Arab race was called, then defeated the Persian armies and Assyria also capitulated. In the seventh and eighth centuries the Saracens conquered Palestine, Egypt, Antioch, Alexandria, Carthage, and practically all of Asia. In 709 the Moors or Barbers, were also subdued. The Visi-goths were defeated and all of Spain, ex- 
 cept small states in the Pyrennes, was controlled by the Mohammedans. They remained in Spain for several centuries. The Mohammedan empire extended, in the eighth century, from western India and the Turkish lands to the Atlantic south of the Mediterranean, including the Spanish peninsula in Europe, and through this immense region, the will of a single caliph was law for a brief period. At the close of this century the Turkish tribes, who are descendants of the Tartars and Mongols and are said to be of Hamitic origin, were pressing into the Arabian empire. The most illustrious Arabian caliph who reigned in Bagdad, was Karoun al Raschid of the Arabian Knights fame, who reigned from 781 A. D. to 805 A. D. Tie was a just monarch and was surnamed the Just. 1 le was also a great warrior and sought alliance with Charlemagne, sending him many presents. The ninth century was a brilliant one for the Mohammedans, but in the tenth century the Turks, who had been hired by the Arabs as soldiers, proved stronger than the luxury-corrupted Arabians. [n this century the Turks had conquered Persia and the Turks and Tartars soon conquered the Saracens and Arabs. In 1063 A. I)., the Turks had obtained control of Arabia and of Turkey in Asia and Europe. Jerusalem was also brought under the heel of the Turkish empire shortly after this period. The history of Turkey will be given in the lesson on the Hamites. In these lessons we have not considered the story of other descendants of Shem such as the Syrians and Lydians, for their history is soon absorbed by the other nations about them, and, therefore, will not occupy our attention. In the Arabian peninsula there still exists the descendants of Esau, of Ishmael, and of Lot. Most of them retain their ancient habits and customs, yet all are today controlled practically by the Turks who are descended from I lam. questions. Who were the Semites? What is a Gentile? What can you say of the Persians? Tell the story of the Babylonian empire. What difference is there between an Arab and a Turk? ( See encyclopedia, or a general history, for full answers to all these questions. High schools use good general histories and many towns have public libraries. Use any references available always remembering that much ancient history outside of the Bible is often largely conjecture and theory.