Relief Society Conference Minutes Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held a semi-annual conference of one day in Salt Lake City, October 4, 1923. Two sessions were held, an officers' meeting in the Bishop's building, and a general session in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. The officers' meeting, which consisted of stake officers and ward presidents was well attended, and at the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall, many people were turned away because of their inability to get seats.
The roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following results: 17 members of the General Board in attendance; there were 377 stake officers and 145 ward presidents; the missions were represented as follows: California mission, 2; Southern States mission, 1; and Western States mission, 1.
The ushers for the conference were furnished by the Ensign stake, and they were very attentive in seeing that the women at the meetings were comfortably seated. A special feature of the conference was the musical numbers, which were given under the direction of our general chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by Miss Edna Coray, organist. The selection, "The Little Bird," by Mr. James Astin, and the Relief Society choir, was entrancing, and the solo by Mrs. Eva Aird, and the choir numbers were beautifully and artistically rendered, as were also the organ numbers by Miss Edna Coray.
President Clarissa S. Williams presided at the meetings, and gave timely and important instruction to the women of the organization.
OFFICERS' MEETING 10 A. M.:
President Clarissa S. Williams, in greeting the Relief Society officers assembled, said: "Words are not adequate for me to express the joy I have in meeting and greeting you on this occasion. It is not possible for the General Board to express to you the joy and satisfaction which we have in the work which has been accomplished in your stakes and wards during the past six months since we met together. We are especially delighted, and give praise to our heavenly Father for the love and unity which exist among us. Word has come to us from about two-thirds of the stakes which have been visited, and we do appreciate your faithfulness and the harmony which exists throughout the organization, and the desire which is in your hearts
to do the work of this great Society in an acceptable manner to our heavenly Father.
"I want to give you this key: If we feel we are fully satisfied ourselves with the work which we have done, if we feel joy and consolation in our hearts that we have been able to do the work which has been given us to do, we may be assured that our heavenly Father is pleased with us, and our labors. The bond of love and unity which exists throughout the world in the Relief Society organization is one which gives us joy and satisfaction, and we praise our heavenly Father for his mercy and blessings to us, and for the desire which he has planted in our hearts to do his will and keep his commandments. May we always have this feeling and this desire, then our hearts will be filled with joy and with praise and with thanksgiving.
Words of greeting were also expressed by Counselors Jennie B. Knight, Louise Y. Robison, and General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman. They spoke of their great interest in Relief Society work, and of their joy in associating with the women of the organization.
TENTATIVE PLAN FOR MATERNITY CHESTS Mrs. Barbara H. Richards, Member of , iodine, medicine droppers, measuring glasses, thermometers, soap (both toilet and laundry), witch hazel, applicators (tooth picks wrapped with cotton); emergency supplies, all types of infant apparel, both used, repaired and new; mothers' apparel, underwear and gowns and bedding, both new and used.
Mrs. Richards emphasizes the importance of having the supplies cared for by a reliable person. It is advised, if possible, for a nurse to have charge, under the supervision of the presidency. In nearly every community in the Church, there is a nurse who will be able to care for the supplies and keep them properly sterilized. The various articles in the maternity bundle should be arranged in the order in which they will be used, the first article needed, on the top of the bundle, and so on. All nurses, during their term of hospital training, learn to prepare these bundles. The articles should be kept in clean, locked cupboards.
The pioneer stake Relief Society has an excellent cabinet arrangement, which consists of a number of drawers, each labelled with the contents, and the entire tier of drawers protected by two large doors, which are kept locked. This arrangement obviates the necessity of locking each drawer separately. This cabinet is kept in the Relief Society room of the Pioneer stake hall.
Some of the stakes and wards have already instituted plans for maternity chests and bundles in their communities. In one city, the two wards have four maternity bundles which were begun at a cost of $5. A charge of $1 is made for the use of each bundle, and it is expected that the articles in the bundle will be laundered and returned within thirty-six hours after confinement. These bundles are kept in the county hospital, and sterilized each time they are used. The doctors in this city like the arrangement very much, and whether it has been asked for or not, they take one of these bundles along when they are called to attend confinement cases.
In another stake, a beginning along this line has also been made. The stake Relief Society presidency has supplied each ward with a small box containing some of the essential articles, which are under the supervision of a nurse, who is a member of the stake board. In some places, the bundles are kept in the library, and are taken out much the same as books. In many cases, people are willing to pay for the articles needed, and are glad to know that they can be obtained from the Relief Society.
Mrs. Richards suggested that a ward might begin with two
bundles and a small loan chest. In a small town of two wards, the wards might unite in establishing and maintaining this service. It is felt that, due to the scattered condition in many stakes, it would not be expedient for such stakes to attempt to carry on this work as a stake activity. However, this may be done where the wards are in close proximity to each other, and the loan chest is centrally located in the stake hall, as in the case of the Pioneer stake where the loan chest is in direct charge of the stake board. Where the stake unit plan is followed, all the wards of the stake contribute to the supplies for the chest, and assist with its up-keep.
Mrs. Richards also suggested that officers of the wards, when beginning this work, explain to their dealers the purpose of the bundles and loan closets, and in all probability, the dealers will allow a discount on the necessities purchased for this purpose, realizing that the movement will be a benefit to the entire community.
It is the desire of the General Board that the annual interest on the wheat trust fund be used for maternity and health and that this money be used to institute and maintain maternity bundles and loan chests. If this is done, then the desire of the Board to have some special thing done with this money, will be achieved. The object of the Board in recommending the establishment of maternity bundles and loan chests is not to make money, but to help the mothers, and to see that they are provided with all the necessary things to bring their children into the world successfully, irrespective of any embarrassing financial condition. Many people prefer to go to the Relief Society for assistance and advice, rather than to any other agency.
The speaker mentioned the advisability, in wards where there is very little sewing to be done, of making layettes for sale. Mothers have learned that the important thing is not to dress the babies in elaborate clothing, but to make them comfortable and to keep them clean, with the least effort possible. Most nurses say now that all the baby needs is a shirt, band, slip, diaper, and blanket. In unheated homes, the baby would probably need a little extra clothing. Babies are not little dolls to be dressed up and exhibited. There is so much demanded of mothers now that they have not time to wash and iron the elaborate things they formerly used. Now we are being educated to think that babies are little human beings, and that the longer they can rest and sleep, and the less they are handled, the better they will grow, and the stronger they will be.
Mrs. Richards displayed a slip and a petticoat, each of which has a front closing, so that the petticoat can be placed inside the slip, and then the baby placed in the petticoat, and both articles of clothing fastened quickly, and without turning the baby. The bottom of the slip was also arranged for closing, the back section being a trifle longer than the front, and designed so that

it might be turned up on to the front section, and fastened, thus inclosing the baby's feet.
President Williams then opened a discussion of plans for maternity bundles and loan chests, and representatives of stakes which have had some experience with this activity, contributed helpful information, from which the following items were gleaned:
Mrs. Elfreda L. Jensen, president of Jordan stake Relief Society, reported that the stake board has furnished each ward with two emergency bundles. Each bundle consists of three sanitary packs, a yard of the best white oil cloth, a four-ounce bottle of olive oil, a small bottle of powdered boric acid, a bar of soap, and some safety pins. People desiring to purchase these bundles may do so by paying for them the actual cost price, which is in the neighborhood of $1.85 or $2.00 for each box. The wards in the Jordan stake are somewhat scattered, and some of them are a long way from doctors. The wards intend to install loan chests in the near future, in addition to the emergency boxes. The nurses on the stake board prepare the sanitary pads, which are made from cheesecloth. The ward presidents collect clean, white cloths, and these are prepared and sanitarily packed by the nurses for all the wards. The pads are wrapped first in a sanitary cloth, then in paper, and then packed in a box.
President Unity Chappell, of Juab stake, stated that in their plan the articles are not arranged in bundles, but that whatever things are called for in an emergency are provided from the supplies, which include sheets, pillow cases, layettes, gowns, sanitary pads, and a bundle and clean, white, sterilized cloths. This bundle of cloths seems to be very essential, and is often called for by the doctors. Two practical nurses, and one trained nurse are members of the stake board.
The president of Panguitch stake, Mrs. Elizabeth W. Henderson, reported that while the wards in this stake have not yet established maternity bundles, the two Relief Societies in Panguitch are arranging for a house, where the maternity bundles and loan chest supplies will be kept, and where they are planning to furnish a few beds, where maternity cases may receive care.
Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell, president of Tintic stake, stated that their social workers report cases where layettes and maternity bundles will be needed and the articles are then prepared and taken to the mothers before their confinement. Mrs. Boswell felt, however, that the plan of having maternity bundles and other supplies on hand was an improvement over the method which has been used in this stake.
President Mary M. Marsden, of Parowan stake, has found the maternity bundles very beneficial in her stake, where the plan
has been well received by the ward presidents, who have cooperated enthusiastically in carrying on the work.
President Mary A. Cutler, of the Pioneer stake, gave an interesting account of the emergency cabinet which was established in the stake seventeen years ago. In the beginning, a trained nurse and doctor were consulted, and the articles and supplies which they recommended were secured. The cabinet includes a medicine chest, which is locked separately from the main cabinet where the labelled drawers contain all the other supplies. The maternity bundles in this stake have always been kept in excellent condition. Some of the things which are called for most often, are kept separate from the regular maternity bundle. No charge is made for the bundles, which are given away, but the sheets and pillow slips are loaned with the understanding that they will be laundered and returned. In addition to the surgical supplies, the maternity bundles and infants' clothing, this stake also keeps on hand a supply of new underwear for children of all sizes, and for elderly people. Temple clothing for charity purposes also finds a place in the cabinet. All the quilts in the closet are made of unbleached muslin, so that they can be easily laundered. The articles most called for are: gowns, diapers, shirts, bands, and stockings. Each layette consists of two outing flannel gowns, two white outing flannel petticoats, two bands, two pair of stockings, and one pair of little bootees, a white dress and petticoat, head shawl, and large wrapping shawl, made of new outing flannel, and six diapers. The outing flannel gowns and night dresses are well liked, and it is not necessary to have the dress. The wards of the stake have given loyal support to this stake emergency cabinet, and the stake has been able to supply the necessary articles immediately, when needed, in any ward.
President Clarissa S. Williams spoke in appreciation of the beginnings which have already been made in establishing maternity loan chests, and recommended that other wards plan to establish this activity in their communities. Every ward in the Church which has a few dollars of wheat interest will be able to make a beginning along this line. It is regretted that in some instances the wheat money has been used for pavements, repairs on meetinghouses, and similar purposes. Emphasis was placed on the importance of the health and lives of the women and children, which should always be foremost in the plans of Relief Society workers everywhere. When maternity bundles and loan chests are established, Mrs. Williams recommended that a charge be made for the use of the articles, except in cases where it is advisable to give the supplies, without charge. Mrs. Williams expressed the opinion that most people would feel more free to ask for the use of the things, if they felt that they could pay a little for the service,

LITERATURE IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board
I am eager that the Spirit of the Lord may attend me this morning because I do desire to be of help to you. I shall read, first of all, a few sentences from a very illuminating book called The American Era, written by Mr. H. H. Powers, one of the foremost of our American scholars. He says: "We are witnessing the passing of Europe. Human eyes never looked upon so momentous an event. Almost since history began, the story of the nations has been the story of Europe. The political detachment of America, a mere surface fact, did not challenge European leadership or break the culture control of Europe over her transplanted peoples. Again, as in the days of Rome, the world was Europe and Europe was the world. It was in such a world that you and I were born. It is a very different world that we shall leave behind us when we go hence. The center of gravity of things human, always located within the confines of Europe from the time of Herodotus until now, has been displaced. Europe has lost world leadership forever. The main fact has been anticipated. The war has altered the status of America far more than that of the race as a whole. To put it in a word, the war has made us the leader of the Anglo-Saxon and thus in a sense the leader of the world."
Now, why is this fact significant? It is significant because everything that is American is more significant today than ever before in the history of the world. Consequently, American history and American literature takes on a significance that they have never had before, and they are being stressed as never before.
Many, no doubt, are acquainted with the Chautauqua courses. The Chautauqua people have been studying American literature this season, and in their prospectus they say this thing: "Nor could the education of any American be called complete or even adequate unless he is familiar with the works of the men and women who have, from the days of Franklin, been leaders of thought in our Republic." So if it is any consolation to you to know that you are "in style," let me tell you that you are strictly in style in your study of American literature.
The first suggestion I wish to make is that those who are choosing leaders for the literary work during the coming year, select persons who are enthusiastic over literature. You would never think of selecting a person to lead a choir who is not enthusiastic over music. The other day a lady said to me with her face beaming, "I am going to give the literature lessons in our Relief Society." She is one of our exceptional teachers. In the community where she lives, everybody talks about the literary lessons. There were sixty persons present when she gave her
first lesson, and the next time there were ninety, merely because of the way the lesson was presented. In one stake, which I visited, it was reported that in one ward the literary lesson was not successful; in another ward that same lesson was so successful that elderly women sat with tears streaming down their cheeks as they listened to their teacher read and explain the poetry. I think it is very evident that it was the presentation of the lesson that made the difference. One teacher felt it very keenly and knew how to adapt it—the other did not feel it and had no power of adaptation.
I am now going to discuss adaptation. You will realize in just a moment that in endeavoring to write lessons for our Relief Societies, we have a varied audience—an audience ranging from persons who have had little opportunity to know the literature of their country, to young people who are taking graduate courses in college at the present time. Now, it isn't an easy matter to adapt work to such a varied audience, still that is our task, and all of us who work at it must do it to the very best of our ability. It is a difficult but not an impossible task. The teacher must know her group and know how to present to that group the lesson which appears in the Magazine. Perhaps for your group you will need to choose one or two points which loom up and are most important. If you have a group of young college women who can take a good deal more than the lesson, then bring in additional books and additional work, but in any event, the lesson must be adapted to the group.
Just a word about the lesson on Cooper. There were three things emphasized in that lesson, which we would have been glad to have emphasized by those who presented it. America had her pioneer days just as we had them in this state. Cooper has incorporated in his novels the life of pioneer America—a life that has passed, but a life that is embalmed to us and to future generations, through his writings. Another matter of great interest in Cooper are his sea tales. Not many authors have portrayed the sea, yet the sea is very important in this life of ours. To pass to a third point, it takes a genius of pretty high order to create a character of such naturalness that we feel that a real human being has been brought into existence, one that we could mingle with and talk with. Cooper was successful in this. If these three points could have been made, we would have felt that the lesson had been successful. If even one or two of these points could have been brought out, the lesson would have been worth while. Shape the lesson to the group, and if one particular part of your lesson will be more interesting to your group than another, then play that up and get the benefit of it.
I want to say something about the questions. In the Cooper lesson, we had a question which read: "Mention a novel or a group of novels since the writing of Scott's Pirate and Cooper's

Pilot, that describes sea life?" In speaking to a group of workers, I said, "Suppose you had asked that question and had obtained no reply; would you consider the question a failure?" The answer was, "Yes." I said, "It would not be a failure in any sense." There would not be any particular difference between the group who could do it and the group who couldn't. I was asked if I did not feel that the class leader should know. I replied that she need not, necessarily, but the question might bring out some little woman somewhere who had never answered a question, but who could just remember having read a book which portrayed sea life. The intent of that particular question was not to get an immediate response, but to arouse interest so that in our future reading we would observe such things.
Mrs. Fairbanks, the artist, said to me one day, "Do you see that purple haze down that track?" I looked and couldn't see the purple haze, but I did not say it was not there, for I recalled the story of a student who rushed into an art studio and said. "I do not see the colors, in nature, which are portrayed in that canvas," and the painter replied, "Don't you wish you could?" What I did was to keep looking down the track, and one day I saw the purple haze, and I have seen it ever since.
Now, the matter of books. We are very grateful for the libraries that we have, where we can get books to read. However, there are some communities that have not such facilities. I have two suggestions to make. If you are in a community where you have not a single volume of Longfellow or Lowell or Holmes or Whittier, then I believe that this organization, that was organized for relief, should find some way to relieve the situation, even if they have to buy the books. On the other hand, I wonder if we are all aware how frequently we find these poems we are studying, in the school books. Where you have high school students in your homes, you will find that sometimes they are using books on American history and literature. Get hold of the books, borrow them from your children. You will also find that some of the books used in the elementary schools contain a good many of these poems. Do you know that in the pioneer days when the people had not much to eat or much to wear, the wonderful women who carried on the civilization of this community, somehow or other found things to eat and things to wear. Now, if your class leaders would go out with the same spirit that the women went out with when they had to find food and clothing, they would find a good many books that would answer the purpose. Let us do our best.
In conclusion I wish to say: Beauty is born of God just as religion is born of God. Art is one of the agents of religion; it is the voice of beauty. In a modern one-act play, one of the characters says, "I had two loaves; with one of them I bought a
hyacinth to feed my soul." Literature feeds the soul. Let us be as eager for the growth of the soul as we are for the growth of the body, and our development will be symmetrical and blessed.
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, of the General Board, who is a member of the Public Library Board, suggested that communities which have not good libraries, avail themselves of the opportunity offered by the Free, Public Library of Salt Lake City. Every month this library has a long list of discarded books—books which are not in good enough condition to circulate longer. These books will be sent, upon request, into towns where the people have not good books. With a very small amount of money, the books could be rebound or sewed in such a way that they could be used for a long period of time. Libraries in other large centers doubtless offer the same opportunity. Communities which have no libraries are urged to make application to the large libraries, and secure some of these discarded books for their towns.
WORK AND BUSINESS MEETING Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, Member of the General Board
Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde gave an interesting discussion of the value and possibilities of the work and business meeting. She stated that at a recent board meeting it was decided that in addition to the present plan for this meeting, a few moments be set aside at the beginning of the meeting for a discussion of the teachers' topic. In some stakes the teachers attend union meeting where the topic is discussed, but in other stakes there is not this opportunity. So instead of the second song, it is suggested that the teachers' topic be treated by some one well prepared.
Mrs. Hyde briefly outlined the order of business in the work and business meeting, which is as follows: Opening song, prayer, brief discussion of teachers' topic for following month, and separation into two groups, one for work and one for business. The business group consists of the president, secretary-treasurer and assistant, and the visiting teachers. As they are called to report, this group should be stationed apart from the meeting proper, either in the same room, or in an adjoining room. The reports of the visiting teachers should be received confidentially by the officers in charge of this group. After the reports have all been heard, this group should join the work group. The work group should be supervised by one of the counselors, and a chairman of sewing (sometimes the counselor herself is chairman of sewing).
Mrs. Hyde emphasized the importance of thorough preparation on the part of those in charge. Every detail should be carefully planned. It has been reported that in some communities the women are tired of the work and business meeting, and that the meeting is not

well attended. This is probably due to the fact that there is no innovation of any kind introduced into these meetings, and that month after month, the only activity is piecing quilts and sewing carpet rags. Of course, there are times when quilts are needed and when the women in the Societies will enjoy quilting; there are also times when carpet rags are needed, but these two activities should not be provided for every work meeting of the year.
The speaker strongly emphasized the value of introducing new work into the meeting. She called attention to the fact that there are in our communities but one or two women who know how to do the old fashioned netting, and perhaps one or two others who know how to do the old fancy Scotch knitting. These arts, as well as many others, equally beautiful and valuable, are becoming lost, because they are not taught to the younger women. An effort should be made to seek out the women who are able to make various kinds of handicraft and to bring them into the work meetings, where they can teach these old arts to the younger women. In this way, these fine types of handiwork will become known among the Relief Society women, and the old arts will be preserved which, with all the new art work and the lovely plain sewing, will bring life and renewed interest into the work and business meetings of the Relief Society.
The suggestion was made, also, that perhaps some women, who are not able to do regular work to earn a livelihood, will be able to make various articles for sale, if lessons in various kinds of handiwork are given in the Relief Society work meeting. The work meetings might also be made profitable and interesting by arranging for an exchange of cooking recipes, or of methods of doing various household tasks. Perhaps a milliner will be found in one ward, a dressmaker in another; bring them into the Relief Society, and have them teach the women at the work meeting how to renovate their old hats, and how to remodel their old clothing. In another ward, there may be found a woman who knows how to remove spots from clothing, and how to press clothing properly. In another community, there is perhaps a woman who knows how to make artificial flowers, or a woman who does basketry. Then there will be the woman who has house plants, and a garden full of flowers in summer time. She will be able to give them helpful advice regarding the care of flowers and shrubs, and what to do to rid them of the pests which attack them. In many instances, it will be found that women who are experienced in these various activities are not members of the Relief Society. Perhaps by inviting them to come to the meetings to teach the women there something of their respective specialties, they will eventually become members. Every woman in the Relief Society is able to do at least one thing better than any one else in the community can do that certain thing. Every woman in the
Relief Society, should, therefore, be able, at some time, to teach the other woman the thing she can do best. If the roll is called occasionally, with the request that each woman answer, telling what her hobby or specialty is, a valuable list will be obtained of the various things which the women in each Society will be able to teach one another.
It is also a good plan, occasionally, to invite the women to bring their own individual work to the work meeting. There is still another side to the work meeting. Time should be taken for social intercourse with one another, for an exchange of greetings, for a smile and handshake. This exchange of thought is a fine education, as is the mingling with one another, and the contact with other spirits than our own. Some wards turn the work and business meeting into a lesson meeting. This is not the intention of the meeting. The necessary business should be performed, and then the meeting turned into an exchange of thoughts and ideas and working plans.
INSTRUCTIONS President Clarissa S. Williams
Teachers Topics: Heretofore it has been optional with the stakes as to whether or not their teachers use the topics outlined in the Magazine monthly. The General Board requests that hereafter every stake instruct the teachers to discuss the teachers' topics in the homes they visit. It is therefore advisable, as Mrs. Hyde has already explained, that each month in the work and business meeting, during the period usually devoted to singing the second song, a ten or fifteen minute discussion of the teachers' topic for the following month, be given. It is hoped that the visiting teachers everywhere will make a special effort to attend the work and business meeting, in order to gain the benefit of the discussion of the teachers' topic, and also in order to make their reports, confidentially, in the business group.
Membership Dues: There has been some question as to whether a woman should pay membership dues, upon becoming a member of the Society, if she joins after the dues for the current year have been paid. President Williams ruled that whenever a woman joins the Relief Society, no matter what time during the year her name is placed on the roll, she should pay the 50c required as dues. The dues paid by a new member, at the time of enrollment, may be regarded as an initiation fee as well as dues. If an individual pays the dues as soon as she becomes enrolled, she will no doubt realize to a greater extent, the importance of membership in the Relief Society.
Instructions in Record and Teachers' Books: While the General Board is willing, at all times, to answer the questions which come in to the general office, still it is felt that much time

would be saved, if the stake and ward officers would read carefully the instructions which are printed in the covers of the stake and ward record books and in the teachers' books. Many of the questions brought to the general office are already answered explicitly in these instructions, and if the officers in the stakes and wards would refer to these instructions, much time would be saved and unnecessary effort avoided. It is very important that all officers should become acquainted with the rulings and instructions of the General Board. Stake and ward presidents should see that their counselors, secretary-treasurers, and other officers concerned, are conversant with the general instructions and recommendations of the General Board.
Circular Letters: It is hoped that all stake officers realize the importance of the circular letters which are sent to the stakes, as occasion requires. After the stake president has thoroughly studied a circular letter which has come to her, she should call together her officers, acquaint them with the contents of the circular, and explain the recommendations or instructions contained therein.
Records and Circulars Property of Relief Society: All circular letters, records and other books purchased by the Society for its use, are the property of the organization, and do not belong to any individual. Whenever a reorganization is affected, the retiring officers should turn over at once to the new officers, all the books, records, circulars, and property of every description, which belong to the Relief Society.
Attitude of Retiring Officers: President Williams entreated the officers, when they are released from their labors, to feel grateful for the opportunity they have had of assisting in the great Relief Society work, and of helping to lay its foundations, upon which the new officers may build. She urged the officers, upon their retirement, to lend assistance to their successors, and to encourage them in their new duties.
Charity Funds: The report has come to the General Board that in some wards, collections of charity funds are not made because the officers in these wards feel that they have no poor in their communities, and that there is no need for charity funds. Surely in every community there is need of charity funds. So long as there are mal-nourished children, sick people without health opportunity, people who can not have their teeth cared for, etc., etc., there is need of a charity fund. It is felt by the General Board that the people should realize that it is an honorable thing to give to an organization that is working for the upbuilding of the people in that community, and every ward should build up a substantial charity fund. Some stakes prefer that charity contributions should not be taken by the Relief Society visiting teachers. Wherever this is the case, the plan of appointing special visitors to
collect funds for charity purposes has been sanctioned by the Presiding Bishopric, and may be followed wherever desired. There is a need for charity funds. The people in the communities should be made to feel the importance of giving and the Relief Society surely should show to them the tangible fruits of their giving.
ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman reported the organizations and reorganizations which have been effected since the April conference. The list of changes is given herewith:
ORGANIZATIONS: Gunnison Stake, organized May 6, 1923, with Mrs. Ida Swalberg, president; Oquirrh Stake, organized June 3, 1923, with Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs, president.
REORGANIZATIONS: Salt River Stake, reorganized May 21, 1923, Mrs. Celia A. Harper, released; Mrs. Abbie C. Ottley, appointed president; Teton Stake, reorganized August 18, 1923, Mrs. Susie M. Wilson, released; Mrs. Mary A. Nelson, appointed president; Eastern States Mission, reorganized June, 1923, Miss Mabel Holmgren, released; Miss Marie Danielsen, appointed president; New Zealand Mission, reorganized July 8, 1923; Mrs. Ida A. Taylor, released; Mrs. Martha J. Wright, appointed president; Canadian Mission, reorganized April, 1923, Mrs. Margaret H. Jensen, released; Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, appointed president; Siar Valley Stake, reorganized September 23, 1923, Mrs. Martha Roberts, released; Mrs. Kitty D. Burton, appointed president; South Davis Stake, reorganized September 30, 1923, Mrs. Emma P. Walton, released; Mrs. Effie P. Eldredge, appointed president. Employment Bureau for Women and Girls: Mrs. Lyman reported that the Relief Society Employment Bureau is making every effort to place the women and girls who apply at the Bureau, in positions in good wholesome surroundings. Some items from the last monthly report of the Employment Bureau were read, showing that during the month of September, there had been applications at the Bureau from sixty-four employees, and from eighty-seven employers. During the month, forty-five women and girls were placed in suitable positions. There were five hundred thirteen telephone calls and eighty-one office interviews incident to the Bureau's work for the month. Attention was called to the fact the Relief Society is not trying to draw women and girls to the city, but when they do come, the Bureau makes every possible effort to find suitable employment for them. The request was made that the Relief Society women in the stakes and wards, direct those who are coming to the city for employment, to the Relief Society Employment Bureau, which will endeavor to find work for them