Oa Jacobs Cannon Appointed to the General Board Blanche Thomas Miner Oa Jacobs Cannon HE General Board of the Relief Society selected a person of high caliber in their appointment of Oa Cannon to their membership on February 6, 1963. Oa Jacobs Cannon was born in West Weber Utah, a daughter of the late Henry Chariton Jacobs and Emma Jacobs Williams, who now resides in Cardston, Alberta, Canada. She was educated at Weber Academy in Ogden, Utah, and at Brigham Young University, where she met and married Charles P. Lloyd. His untimely death left her with three small children: Norma, now Mrs. Ross E. Dean of Salt Lake City; Charlene, Mrs. Jack Mulkey of Corona Del Mar, California; and Charles P. Lloyd of Long Beach, California. Charles completed a mission and taught several years in New Zealand. He is now in the bishopric in a Long Beach ward and complet- 248 ing his education toward a doctorate. For eight years Oa taught in the Commerce Department at Brigham Young University, until her marriage in 1936 to Paul Bennion Cannon of Salt Lake City. Two daughters were born to them—Lynne, a University of Utah graduate, now serving on a mission in Ontario, Canada; and Kathryn, a junior at the University of Utah. For this important and responsible position on the General Board of Relief Society Oa Cannon possesses excellent qualifications. She has a thorough knowledge of the gospel obtained through participation in many Church organizations, particularly the M. I. A. And the Relief Society. She has served as first counselor in the presidency of the Holladay Ward Relief Society, and as President of the Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and as literature class leader in Holladay Ward, and in Monument Park Ninth Ward. For the past three years she has been a most enthusiastic and energetic genealogical worker. Sister Cannon has a capacity for work and the judgment to work effectively. Her education has been a continuing one, with frequent enrollment in University of Utah classes. While her executive and leadership ability will be appreciated and admired, she will be loved for her cheerful personality, her genuine interest in people, and her sympathetic understanding of their problems.