STRICTLY FOR SILENCE "Maybe he will remember and come back." "Not when he is in this mood. He will go without and be crosser than ever when he gets home." She whispered the words. ISH swallowed a quick remembrance. Hugh had had his moments during the early years of their married life. She had learned not to force an issue, and he had learned to give a little — only a little, to be honest about it, but they had had a wonderfully happy life. She started to tell the young wife, but stopped. She was not mixing in any family affair again. "Tm Tish Haworth," she said, "what is your name?" "Lola." That was all. Tish looked carefully at Lola. She had been and still could be a very lovely girl. Everything about her and the children was clean and neat. She wore a blue checked smock and a very blue skirt. 'Tish's resolve weakened. "T take it," she spoke casually, as She helped load the washers, "your husband was upset about something." Lola's mouth hardened. "He never thinks of anyone but himself." "So?" Tish glanced about. The soldier's washers had quit spinning, but there was no empty drier. The three married girls had left, and others had taken their places. One woman was putting a load in with one hand and reading a movie magazine held in the other hand. She neither spoke nor was spoken to. The young boy was screaming. "Push him back and forth, Darlene." Lola spoke softly to her little daughter. "Tl take him in a few minutes." She turned to Tish. "This is the way the days go. Carl takes the car to work, and I can't get outside the door without both babies tugging at me. Darlene isn't old enough to walk as far as the park. I'd like to hear something besides baby prattle for a change." "Will you have to wait for Carl to pick you up?" "No. Ill walk home. It isn't far, and he will pick up the clothes on his way home from work. Some day they are going to be stolen before he gets here." "I won't, I won't," Tish repeated under her breath. She took the soldier's clothes and set the basket down before a drier. 'The grayhaired woman had dried her quilt and was, of all things, pressing it on the mangle. 'Tish put the basket of clothes in the drier and then returned to Lola. She looked again at the woman with the quilt. "Why don't you take my car and take Carl's lunch to him?" OLA just stared, but a man across the row of washers turned to his wife, "Ginny, did you hear that? Offers her car to a stranger." "She must be a wonderful person, Ben," the wife answered softly. Tish heard and a warm glow washed over her body. She took her key ring from her purse and offered it to Lola. The girl shrank back. "Go on. It is the blue one," and Tish pointed to it through the window. "Oh, I wouldn't think of taking your car. You don't know me. Besides." She glanced at the 272 washers and then at the children. Her face came alive. "No." 'Tish stopped her words. "The babies will stay here with me." "Tll have your car, and you will have my babies." Lola tried to sound facetious. "Why should you be so good to me?" She wanted to protest, but wanted more to use the car. The cool indifference of the woman with the quilt might have had something to do with it, so might the trio of giggling girls, or any number of other things, but all Tish said was, "I know how men are when they are hungry." Lola hugged her and in a tone that had risen several octaves said, "T haven't been in a real car for so long I have forgotten when." Then, as swishingly as her shape allowed, she was gone. "Lady," Ben spoke up, "if you had made me that offer I would willingly have left you all these dirty clothes for collateral." Ginny looked across at the children. "If she doesn't come back you will have the best of the bargain." Tish noted the wistful look on Ginny's face. Ben reached and patted her awkwardly. "You will never see your car again,' another voice cried. Already Tish was feeling a little squeamish. Another of her wild impulses, Irene would say. But she had no time to worry. With three different washings and two children, she had her hands and mind full. For the next hour she filled driers, folded clothes, and tried to pacify children. HE children had cried when their mother left, but in a few minutes settled down to the joy of being entertained. 'Tish pushed the cart about as she moved from one machine to another. She tried to answer Darlene's questions and gave her all the small articles, sox, handkies, washcloths, to fold. Then, without warning, Mark was out of his cart and insisting on helping. Then, "I'm hungry," he announced. "Ym awful hungry,' Darlene added, "Mama always lets us eat." She started for the door, and 'Tish had to rush to catch her. Darlene tried to pull away and started to scream. Mark followed his sister's lead. A gitl laughed. Another one said, "You sure took on a job for yourself." "Do you know where they live?" Ginny asked. Tish shook her head. "TI haven't the faintest idea." She asked Darlene, and in one minute had received four different sets of directions. "Would you like me to go get some milk and crackers for them?" This from Ben. "Ts it far?'' "It is quite a way,' Ginny answered, "but he hasn't anything else to do." Tish tried to give Ben some coins but he pointedly ignored them. Darlene started running back and forth. Mark tried to keep up with her. They collided and Mark fell and hit his head a resounding whack on the floor. Tish took him in her arms and tried to comfort him, but he would have none of it. "Mama, STRICTLY FOR SILENCE 9 Mama," he wailed, and tried to push himself from Tish's arms. "Oh, dear." 'Tish began to wonder why the soldier didn't come back — and the store must be a long way from here. She tried pulling clothes from a drier with one hand while holding Mark with the other. Darlene reached in and dragged a sheet onto the floor. "Here you are." It was Ben with a quart of milk and a box of crackers. "I brought a cup, too. It is only plastic, but Ginny can sterilize it." ISH felt tears in her own eyes. She went to the bench and wedged her weight between two occupants. Darline took one drink of milk and then pushed the cup away. "I want some of this. It's pretty." She pointed to a soft drink dispenser. "Want pitty," Mark echoed. "IT want a_ cracker." Darlene reached for the box. Tish put the milk bottle in the window while she opened the cracker box. She gave them each one. "More," Darlene demanded. Tish gave them each three and then, putting Mark on the floor, she went back to unloading the drier. "Watch out!" someone shouted. Tish whirled in time to see Darlene grab the milk bottle. She couldn't hold it and the milk splashed over her face and dress. A watcher snatched the bottle before it was completely emptied. 'Tish took a towel from her own laundry and began to mop up the spilled milk. There was enough left in the bottle for each to have another good drink. Then Darlene began crumbling her crackers on the floor. Mark dropped his and began stomping on it. Tish had about had it. No wonder Lola had been so happy to get away. She took Mark and put him in his push cart. "Now you stay there," she commanded. Immediatelv he began to crv. "He don't want to be in that thing,' Darlene declared, "do you, Markie?" She tricd to lift him out, but his foot caught and the cart tipped over, landing both children on the floor. "Hey. What's all this noise about?" It was the soldier returned. "Now vou cut it out." The masculine voice carried authority. Both voices stopped abruptly. "I know what you want, Bud." From a pocket the soldier brought a sucker for each of them. Any other time 'Tish would have strongly objected, but she was so relieved she said nothing. "I saw my boy," the soldier explained, "and I couldn't help buying the suckers." He laughed awkwardly. "Of course, I didn't intend to give them to him right away." He thanked 'Tish profusely and picked up his basket of folded clothes. "Lady, vou are really a great guy." ISH found a broom and swept up the cracker crumbs. Her lame ankle ached, her head was dizzy, and her stomach empty. What could be keeping Lola? The clothes were all done and folded. Eventually, Tish succumbed 274 to buying a bottle of pink pop which was strictly against her ideas for feeding children. She took Mark in her arms and, finding room on the bench, rocked him back and forth until he went to sleep. "T want to go home," Darlene whined. She took hold of 'Tish's hand and tried to pull her toward the door. "I want to go home." "Let's wait a minute for Mama, shall we?" Tish coaxed as she laid Mark on the bench. She took a heavy towel from her own basket and folded it under his head. "Come on,' she said to Darlene, "we'll walk outside the window and [ll tell vou another story." "T don't want another story. I want Mama." She pulled and tugged. Tish thought of calling Irene. She could not hold out much longer — but she would never learn, and she didn't want Irene to know about this. She looked at the pay telephone on the wall. She would wait another fifteen minutes. She gave Darlene another cracker, then, sitting on the chair by the mangle, took the girl on her lap. Darlene soon went to sleep, too, her head hanging heavy on 'Tish's arm. Tish began to consider calling the police to find her car, but she would never hear the end of that. There was one relief — the people who had seen her give the car keys to Lola had gone home long since. One thing Tish promised herself, from here on out she would really mind her own business. She was always too ready to trust people. Mark woke up and he awakened Darlene. Immediately they began calling for Mama. It was past noon — something had to be done. Tish started for the telephone, but stopped short when her car eased to a stop in front of the big window. Lola swung herself out and came swiftly into the room. The children ran for her, crying and laughing at the same time. Lola stooped and cuddled them. "Tm hungry." Darlene clung to her mother. Lola was wearing a different skirt now, and she looked very chic and very happy. "Oh, Mrs. Haworth, I am so sorry I was so long. I didn't realize how fast the time was going. You'll never know what you have done for me." "T hope you never know what you have done to me," Tish said under her breath, then added, "the radiance of your face is all the thanks I want. Now we must get these children home. Ill drive you home." HEN they were in the car Lola spoke again, "Mrs. Haworth, as you have likely guessed, Wylie, my husband, and I haven't been exactly pleasant to each other lately. I have been feeling so abused and housebound, and he has been so worried about meeting expenses. Well, driving that car lifted my spirits. I went home and dressed STRICTLY FOR SILENCE up, then I took his lunch down to him. He was so upset about my having your car, but when I told him how it came about, it did something to him. He told me how sweet I looked and said for me to wait." "You are sweet. Where to go." Lola gave directions, then continued, "Anyway, neither of us had had breakfast, so we found a little place where we could eat and talk. We haven't shared our thoughts in this way for — oh, ages. We unburdened ourselves and fell in love all over again. Conditions won't seem so crushing now, and it is all because of you. We decided as long as there are people like you, all is well with the world and we can't get pouty." As Tish entered her own home the telephone was ringing. It was Irene. "Mother, where in the world have you been? I have called and called." "Oh, I went on a short excursion, to a washateria." "Washateria. Of all things. I think you should let me know when you leave. What if something should happen to you?" "Something did happen, and you know what? I've found I am sort of crazy, but there are two or three things about me I like." Now tell me wo Me OF BeCaAtse it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth. — Nancy M. Armstrong 275 Y, =". 7, KS aw. Pee BN |; S e R .. —. A ° aay Ruth G. Rothe NE fine summer day Mamma O packed some bushel baskets in the back of Thelma Perkins' pickup truck and sailed off with her to get some tomatoes. We had plenty of nice tomatoes in our garden for eating, but they were going to get canning tomatoes. Mamma says that any farm wife that doesn't have at least one hundred quarts of nice juicy tomatoes on her basement shelves for winter is a piker for sure.) They were laughing and visiting as they left our farm. Mamma had her blonde hair tied in a bright scarf that matched her blue-checked skirt and, beside Thelma, she looked like a teenager. Mamma isn't real skinny, but she is short and slender, and I think that's why Dad calls her doll sometimes. 'Thelma's on the heavy side, full of fun and easygoing about everything and everyone likes her. When they returned they weren't 276 laughing and visiting any more. Thelma had turned too short at a corer and the results hadn't been very good. They had both been shaken up, frightened, and excited, and Mamma had the beginning of a black eye! Most of all, she was just plain upset, and as she explained to the family later, "Thelma Perkins is the poorest driver in this county, the absolutely poorest excuse ever." We made tomato juice with the tomatoes that were left. When Mamma announced at the breakfast table next morning that she was going to start driving the car, I chuckled. 'The twins, Mary and Martha, gazed at Mamma's black eye and looked frightened as if they might start to cry. Jerry and Christine, the youngest of our family, just ate their cereal as if Mamma made this same announcement every morning. Tom looked at Mamma as if she really was going to have one of those nervous breakdowns she was always threatening to have, and said, "Why do you want to do that?" Dad looked a little bit uneasy and also a bit undecided about what to do or say before he said, ""There's no reason to learn to drive. Either Tom or I can take you where you want to go." "You've been real good about taking me places, [ll admit, and living where we do, some of my friends can pick me up on their way to town, but the more I think of it, lots of them aren't the best of drivers, either, and I've decided I want to be independent." Dad spoke up to say that, with all the accidents there were and the careless drivers like Thelma, maybe it was best not to have too many of the family driving. "Warren, the more I| think of it, I might have been killed yesterday. When I remember those lovely tomatoes bruised and broken all over the road, I think I have no alternative, I've just got to make the step." Tom smiled and said, "Gee, Mom, you act like it's just real easy or something. After all you've never even driven the tractor or anything." "Now don't try to stop me before I even start. Remember what Emerson said, 'Anything you persist in doing.'" Tom interrupted with a soft little laugh, but I could see, by the way Mamma looked, that she was determined to try it, and I guess the rest of the family saw it, too, because they soon quit trying to discourage her and talked about something else. Mamma hurried us a little so that IF AT FIRST she could get her work finished as soon as possible. She said that Aunt Betty was coming at ten to give her a driving lesson, so with something as definite as that, no one made much comment. HEN Aunt Betty arrived Dad and Tom were out in the field working, so she just parked her car in the shade, backed our car out of the garage and, with Mamma at her side, began explaining about the different levers, knobs, buttons, and such. Then they headed down the road, with Aunt Betty still at the wheel and Mamma watching carefully everything she did. They went up and down the road time after time, and Jerry and Christine waved and called, but Mamma didn't seem to take any notice of them. When I saw them coming again and spotted Mamma in the driver's seat, I cautioned the kids that they weren't to make one sound and make her nervous. She didn't go very fast, but she kept right on the road and seemed to be doing fine and I felt proud of her. Here, with only one lesson, she was already driving a car! After awhile Mamma drove into the yard and, with Aunt Betty's help, she stopped the car. The first lesson was over. Mamma looked shaky and upset when she got out of the car and seemed to be doubting if it had been such a good idea to try. Aunt Betty was offering encouragement, "Don't worry about it — you did fine for your first time." It wasn't until they were in the house starting dinner that Martha noticed the dent in the nght hand fender. Not a big, squashy, rumpled dent, but a big noticeable dent, and I began feeling sorry Mamma had tried such a thing. I made sure that I was outside when Dad and Tom came in to dinner. Not that I was going to tattle on Mamma, but I knew they'd notice it without any help. They weren't blind. Tom saw it first, whistled a sort of low wolf-call whistle and said, "Boy, things just aren't going to be the same around here again." Dad bent down, examined it and, shaking his head, said, "Maybe Jim Porter can hammer it out and do a touch-up job on it. [''d hate to buy a whole new fender this soon." Tom looked at it again and then toward the house. "It might be best to wait until she's through learning and try to get everything taken care of at once. It would be a shame to fix the fender maybe six, seven times — might be cheaper to just wait and buy a new one at that." I don't know what they had planned to say to Mamma, but she handled it real fine when she met them at the door. "I see you've noticed my handiwork. Well, there's just one thing I want everybody around this house to understand. If I recall what's happened in the past, I have quite a few dents and scratches and bumps coming before I catch up with you two, so let's not fret about it and let the dinner get cold." When I thought about what she " had said I decided she was night. The old car had been battle-scarred when Dad traded it in last month. But I saw, too, that Mamma hardly 278 touched her favorite casserole, and I knew that she felt real bad about putting the first dent in the new car. The rest of the day Mamma debated about what to do. Perhaps she should forget it, perhaps she was as stupid as Thelma about driving a car. I thought she was going to talk herself into forgetting the idea for sure, but when Aunt Betty tried to show how nice it would be to jump in the car and go to meetings, sales, and such by herself, she said she'd think it over again. NEST day Mamma announced that Pearl Healy down the road had suggested she practice in one of the fields. Dad considered a minute, then said she could go in the grain stubble back of the house. Mamma went to answer the phone. Tom speculated, "Dad and I will be up in the north field — you kids can stay by the house — the animals are all penned in — she's got five acres in that piece, so how could anything possibly happen?" The rest of us didn't think it was so funny, but Tom just liked to kid about things. Dad drove the car out to the field and went to haul hay. Part of the time we leaned on the fence and watched Mamma. She would go down the length of the field, make her signals, turn one way or the other, just as if she was on a busy highway. Then she decided to practice backing. She started out fine. Then she was going in circles. Big circles, little circles, middle-sized circles. Just circles, circles, circles, and I could tell by the look on her face that she didn't know just what to do. I began wondering if she would keep at it until she ran out of gas, but finally she stopped and just laid her head back on the seat and rested for awhile. Next day she practiced some more, and then I had to get the tractor and pull her out of the ditch. That's right! There was only one ditch in the whole field, right along the top and, like Tom said, five whole acres to drive in, but somehow Mamma had managed to do the impossible, and she couldn't get out. We got the tractor and the car both back where they belonged before Dad and Tom got home for dinner, and I warned the kids not to say a word. Mamma probably would have told Dad about it herself, but Tom Sikes came along to talk over some business with him and stayed for dinner. Mamma was really discouraged by now and, as we did the dishes, I asked her to tell me the rest of the words that Emerson had said. She looked sort of dreamy-eyed for a minute, then she said, with a little smile on her face, " "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased.'"' She looked sad then as she shook her head, "But Pm afraid that it doesn't apply to driving automobiles." She stopped washing the dishes and just let her hands rest on the sides of the yellow plastic dishpan, then she began to smile, "You know, Lilly, Emerson also said something else that might be well for me to think of now, 'Do the thing and thou shalt have the IF AT FIRST If you cannot do it, do it? 99 power. And then you can. A few days later Aunt Betty came again and sat beside Mamma as she went up the road and down the road. When they returned there were no scratches, bumps, or dents. I hadn't had to get the tractor out. Mamma was smiling, Aunt Betty was smiling, and I was sure that everything had gone fine. I was beginning to feel encouraged. But I was too early! Next day Mamma needed a pattern for the costumes the twins were to wear in the Harvest Festival and decided there was no need to get Dad in from work to take her to get it. She would drive down to Mildred Yates' and get it herself. She was gone only an hour or so, but when she came in the house she was crying. She went right to her room and shut the door. I wondered if she had killed somebody or wrecked the car, but on investigation the car looked fine. I was debating about whether to go get Dad or what to do when she came out. Her eyes were still red, and she was still upset, but she told me what was wrong. Mamma had received a ticket! When she showed it to Dad, he looked at it, put his arm around her shoulder, and asked, "What did you do, Hon?" "I didn't do anything. They were having a road blockade, and I didn't dare turn around and leave when the policeman held up his hand, so I just stopped, and he asked to see my driver's license. I tried to explain that I'm just learning and he said maybe the judge would take that into consideration." I thought she would start to cry again, but her lip just quivered and she blew her nose.... Golly, Mamma was really getting the experiences since she decided to try this new venture. Here in about a week, besides everything else, she had gone in a ditch, dented the fender, and become a criminal. What would she do next? NTIL she thought of the driving idea, Mamma had always read stories to us in the late afternoon, but not any more. 'The only reading she did now was in the little driving book. She would study what it said and go over and over each page, trying to pound in to her head what it meant so that she could pass the exam. The day that she went to pass the written test and get a learner's license, we were all worried that maybe Mamma wouldn't remember what was in the book, but she passed fine, and I reminded her that Emerson had been right. Two weeks later she and Dad left for the city. Today Mamma would take her driving test. When they came back Dad was driving. No amount of talking would convince Mamma that she would ever pass or for that matter ever drive again. She announced that the whole idea had been bad from the start, and that if anybody called her a quitter that was fine, because she would agree with them. She said the roads around our place weren't so bad but in the city, with all that traffic, it had scared her silly, and that the cross-looking officer made her knees shake just to think of him. She didn't touch the wheel again, and when even Aunt Betty failed to persuade her to try, we knew she meant it. She explained that when she saw so many, many cars coming toward her she felt like just hiding her head and that she was still too scared to pass even slow old tractors ahead of her. We tried to forget that she had ever started to drive and perhaps it would have ended there, but we had an emergency! Tom had gone on an outing for the day, and Dad got his hand caught in the bailer as he was repairing it. It was just one of those things that happen for no good reason, but all the same it happened. Dad couldn't think of driving, but he could tell Mamma what to do. She must drive him to the doctor in the city, and there was no time to waste. I thought Mamma might faint, she's squeamish about blood, but between us we got a bandage on his hand. As we started to town, I sat in the front seat between them in case I was needed. When Mamma looked like she was getting worried, Dad just encouraged her on. She passed other cars coming toward us without hiding her head. She even passed a truck that poked along ahead of us. Mamma did herself proud. Dad said, "You did just fine, doll. But if you don't go get a license tomorrow, I'll make you ride with Thelma Perkins every place you go." Mamma was smiling happily as she said, "No need to threaten, Warren, I think you're night, just as right as — well, just as right as Emerson." |