SPRAY IT WITH FLOWERS lightly with enamel, following instructions on manufacturer's label. For a truly porcelain or gilded look, apply paint in several thin coats, letting each coat dry thoroughly. Return mirror to frame and hang as a bedroom eye-catcher or a bathroom dazzler. The same principle of sprayed flowers can be applied to many other household castoffs, such as dressing-table lamp stands, picture frames, and bath salt bottles. For a "new" lamp, first select a new shade, or fabric to cover the old one. Then, in a harmonizing color, spray the entire lampstand to which flowers have been glued at the base. For decorating clear glass bottles, remove lid and spray (preferably gold). Spray also the flowers selected for decorating the bottle. The flowers should have stems and leaves removed before spraying. When thoroughly dry, glue flowers and leaves to bottle in an attractive arrangement. How 40 make 4 Drusilla Ferree | YARD OF BURLAP Materials: 3" HANDLES 1 yard any color BURLAP (36" 3" HANOLES wide) 1 linen-looking, plastic window shade (3' x 6') thread 30" BAe felt scraps glue The diagram shows five linings, one lining each for five bags. The. Diagram of material for the bags K— 18" —pl<—— 16" ——"} shows two bags cut from the 36- LINING 3/X 6' inch burlap. Three linings will be - (plus 14" hem) x left over. If these are used later, the approximate cost of each bag would be 70 cents. 13+ 3% EXCESS 163%" Ke Burlap and lining materials for each bag are cut in one piece and require no seam at the bottom. | There will be four extra 1" x 27" strips of lining for handles left over. 27" Procedure: xcESsS on Cut burlap down center. You will have 2 pieces 18" x 36". Now from each piece cut 2 handles for each bag 3" x 18". (You should have 2 bags 18" x 30", and 4 handles 3" x 18".) 27 " EXcESS Lining: From window shade cut 5 lin- 7" 7 ings and 10 handles (take out te bts 3' — stitched hem as you will need the entire shade). 302 | 5 VUUAY UAL CUI LUUA LUA Linings for bag 16%" x 27" Linings for Handles 1" x 27" ~ Cut lining handles (1" x 27") in half (now 2 pieces 1"x 13%"), ss reer --<| |--—-—-=e0 Cover handle lining with 3" x 18" burlap pieces and trim off excess burlap. The burlap will completely cover lining so no lining will show. Machine stitch both sides of handles. With right sides of material together (lining centered in middle of burlap) and handles between lining and burlap with inside edge of handles 12" from center of bag, sew lining, burlap, and handles at the ends. Turn bag and sew approximately | %"" from top edge of burlap. You WW will note that lining is shorter and narrower than the burlap, and so you will have approximately %" burlap top edge, in- (>) side the bag. Fold bag and stitch on right side of material approximately 1%" from outside edge. Now fringe outside edges approximately %" wide. Un sag LANL Decorate by gluing felt-designed flowers, animals, birds, geometric designs, etc., or make yarn designs, or decorate in. Any manner you desire. Ww