[Vol12 | July 1925 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Lula Greene Richards Frontispiece]
7 The Pioneer Woman Editor of the Church Lula Greene Richards, pioneer woman editor of the Church and of Utah, is now seventy-six years of age.

The following account of the beginning of women in journalism was written by her.?Editors.

When a quarter of a century had passed, after the notable entrance of the Mormon Pioneers into the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had grown sufficiently strong and powerful to justify the founding of a publication to be owned and conducted by the first auxiliary organization of the Church, the Woman's Relief Society.

The Society had come to realize the necessity of such help as should be obtained from the circulation of a periodical especially adapted to the development of their interests impaled in its broad and ever increasing activities.

There were many reasons why the women of Utah should consider the issuance of a paper of their own a warrantable enterprise.

The editorial in the first number of the paper set forth in a few words that although the women of Utah had been in possession of the ballot for two years, which at the time appeared to be the principal privilege for which women in many places were struggling, there was still ample work to be done in which their paper would prove of great service.

There were truths to be disseminated, errors to be combated, intelligence to be communicated, the right to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be corrected.

A clause in the prospectus of the paper reads, "Who are so well able to represent the women of Utah as the women of Utah themselves?

And is it not better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others?" The establishment of a woman's paper in Utah meant the entering of a new field, one altogether untried in the west except by Mrs. Duniway, who had just previously started the New North-West, in Portland, Oregon.
