[Vol12 | July 1925 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Family Budgets Rena B. Maycock]

Family Budgets and the Rural Home Mrs. Rena B. Maycock Women in rural communities have shown unusual interest recently in discussions of family Standards of Living and Home Budgets. Budget interest among rural women is in itself unusual for it has been found in the past that farm women particularly have quite a positive notion that the "Family Budget is all right for ? the city woman, with a regular cash income, but it doesn't work on the farm." This is a budget age. The budget conscience is already active in governmental affairs, state and national; industrial and commercial organizations, great and small, recognize that their stability and growth is fundamentally dependent upon a carefully planned budget. The business of the home, the greatest business in the world, has far greater need of the budget than any other organization 
  The rural home in ratio of responsibilities has even greater need of a budget than the urban home. It has a more compelling natural obligation to civilization. All other industries draw upon agriculture as the source of supplies, human as well as material. The most vital interests of the nation operate through the rural home not only in providing raw materials but in determining national character. "The character of its rural people, their intelligence and dependability, is the first factor in determining the strength and endurance of a nation and its ultimate fitness for democracy." The Home Budget is fundamentally a character builder. The first character responsibility of the "civilized" home is to socialize its members by bringing them into a consciousness of the interdependencies of life through the family circle. This cannot begin too early. The small child can be led from animal selfishness into sympathetic service. It requires, however, intelligent guidance?the willingness to pay the price in time, in thought, and in methodical action. Intelligent guidance depends upon clearness of vision, the definiteness with which objectives are measured. Objectives can be measured only in specific terms. Ideas and ideals must be made very concrete to a child. He must be led to visualize relationships and be taught to see what there is to do about securing, a desired end. The family budget is a very specific thing. It sets up standards for family living in a very concrete way. Limitations and expansions can be pointed out objectively, and relationships can be clearly demonstrated. The family income, large or small, is a very specific thing and its intelligent distribution is still more "specific. The matter of income seems to be one of the baffling snags in budget making by the farm family. Because the farm income is not definitely cash and regular, it is likely to be regarded as not tangible and therefore not concretely applicable. It must be admitted that mere mathematical computation may be easier with a regular cash income?but the ease of cash may lose some of the finest values in the budget. The person with salary or wage may have a regular cash income but he may be cramped and hindered in resources and advancements, Individual ability and initiative are less likely to operate at their best if the systems which absorb them are commercial or political machines which in their greedy grinding use men as wheels rather than as humans. The farm affords more resources for income for the entire family, more freedom for individual adjustments, and better opportunity for distribution of responsibilities among its family members than does the city. The lack of individual responsibility in family life is said to be the greatest disintegrating influence in FAMILY BUDGETS 361 3 the American home today. If the outcome of an income is to be in terms of character rather than of cash here is a national challenge to the rural home with its helpful environment. The modern family budget is not to be confused with the old-fashioned keeping of accounts, the main purposes of which were to list petty money transactions in orderly columns and to redline monthly and yearly summaries into neat balances for "final rest in darkened files of futility." Rightly interpreted the budget is more concerned with character than with cash. It becomes decisive in its relation to immediate problems of family health, education, advancement, and welfare, also an indicator of possibilities for future growth and development. The budget works in character development only by common consent?participation by all members of the family. There must be no one family accountant. The mother must not assume account keeping as her special task. She must reserve her energies for direction and supervision which are far more important than account keeping. A fundamental rule of the family budget is that all members of the family shall know the family income and shall assist in determining its distribution. This makes necessary the establishment of a family council, the council to meet at regular intervals to do business jointly for the material, the mental and the spiritual welfare of the family, to make divisions of labor and assignment of responsibilities and to give proper moral and financial support to each assignment. It is important that each member be given a stewardship of some division of the budget with accountability to the family in council sessions. Recent contacts with about 1,300 rural high school girls showed through personal inquiry that only six of these girls could claim with any confidence that they knew their own family income and its distribution, and sensed their own relationships and responsibilities with regard to it. Less than one third of 1,200 farm housewives could claim to know definitely the total income of their farms, the amount of farm produce consumed by the family and the distribution of the cash expenditures. A class of fifteen high school girls planned personal clothing budgets ranging in cost from $85 to $335 per girl per year. Not one of them knew the family income nor what might rightfully be her own share of the income for her own clothing. Yet each girl confidently expected to get all the clothing included in her plan. One mother in discussing the incident said, "Well, girls these days certainly expect to get what they want! Now, my daughter, for instance, insisted she must have a new party dress for the Junior Prom?all the other girls were having them. When her father and I protested she went into such a tantrum and made it so dis. 
 agreeable for the whole family that?that?well, what else could we do?" Some one has humorously said that "the average home is the most despotic institution in the world, and is ruled by the worst disposition in it." How could the girl whose personal budget plans called for twelve pairs of silk hose for the year at an average of two dollars a pair sense her relationship to the family and its income and see virtue beyond a selfish satisfaction, when to her the only price of ownership meant a vigorous display of temper? Intelligent, sympathetic co-operation of children in the family can be enjoyed only when the children understand the true family status and participate in the thought and judgments which decide what is best to be retained, what best to be given up, what to extend or expand according to the financial and other resources of the family. It is said that "the faults of men have their deepest origin in the home." Does this not apply to virtues also? No experience could be more enlightening to the high-school daughter of the family than to plan the clothing for the entire family. Her special stewardship contribution to the group might be the responsibility of taking inventory of all clothing on hand, making estimates of necessary expenditures for each member of the family and reporting her findings to the family council for discussions and decisions. She might be assigned the responsibility of purchasing the clothing within the budget as determined by the family. Wisely guided, the experience is an opportunity for the individual to see her relationship to the group, to change selfishness into service. Intelligent guidance will help her also to understand that home activities and expenditures have a wider relationship than immediate problems of the family, that community and national conditions are interdependent with the home. For instance, a certain town in Utah, typical of the rural village, has a population of about 4,000. It is estimated that the average annual income per family in this town does not exceed $1,200. An approximate budget percentage for clothing expenditures on so small an income could not possibly exceed 20% of the total without detrimental curtailment of other needs. Twenty per cent of $1,200 is $240, the total amount which may be spent for clothing for the entire family, or $48 each if the family consists of five members. The inconsistency of one family member spending $24 for silk hose in one year is evident. Even if the mother is willing to be self-sacrificing and give her share for daughter's pleasure, and small sister releases her share by wearing made-overs, three times $48 will not buy coats at $70, gowns at $40, hose at $20, shoes at $10, and a supply of novelty accessories such as adolescent girls are demanding in "social eligibility." Could the family as a group be taught to appreciate the fact that 75% of our entire American families are compelled to live FAMILY BUDGETS 363 on an annual income of less than $1,200? Has any girl the moral right, no matter how legitimately large her own purse may be, to flaunt personal finery among her community associates and cause envy and strained competition and disagreeable chafings in the homes of average finances? Can the family as a group be taught to appreciate the fact that 75% of our entire American families are compelled to live on an annual income of less than $1,200; that if the total $60,000,000,000 annual income of the United States could be redistributed equally among the 120,000,000 population no one family would have more than $2,500.00 as a yearly income; that any family having an income of this amount or above has a democratic call to look into the distresses of the masses and aid in constructive re-adjustments? Each phase of the family budget offers similar experiences for each member of the family with varying activities according to age and ability, but always with the sense of accountability of the family group. Even the tiny three year old may be taught to participate in the family council if only to the extent of seeing sister write in his column on the account sheet the price paid for his little shoes and to show him that the milk column in the food account includes the quantity which is his share to make him big and strong. A budget is commonly thought to be a system of percentage for expenditures predetermined by some remote authority and in some ideal way applicable to all incomes. In a general way the average cost of adequate food, shelter, clothing, etc., for individual or family existence may be estimated in dollars and cents. The war time thrift series gives a ratio in simple budget divisions for the expenditure of one dollar, one hundred, or one thousand dollars as follows: 5 tenths for food. 2 tenths for shelter. 1 tenth for clothing. 1 tenth for operating expenses. 1 tenth for saving and advancement. An economic law operates, however, to this effect: the smaller the income the larger is the proportion used for food and other physical necessities; the larger the income the smaller the proportions needed for physical necessities. Most of our budget estimates are made from comparative studies of group types such as the laboring class and professional (teaching) class. Very little investigation has been made of standards and cost of living for rural or farm families. Recent studies (1923-24) in Ohio show that the cost of food, rent and fuel for family consumption on the farm is about one half the city cost, the total average per family being $578.59 at country value while 
 the same material in the same quantity averages $1,203.97 at city value.: If this is generally true, then the average farm family has the advantage of the use of a larger proportion of their income for comfort and advancement than the average city family. No statistical data is available concerning farm living costs in Utah, but it is safe to say that Utah would not suffer in comparison with Ohio. With the difference in the cost of necessities the budget percentages based on urban conditions are even less applicable to farm living than has been supposed. But the family budget cannot be arbitrarily estimated in percentages. It is really a very intimate family affair and can be determined only by the family itself, for in the end it is an expression of the intelligence, the ambitions, and the ideals of the group and a record of their co-operative achievements. That it takes a $50,000 woman to rear a family worthily om a $500 income is a statement full of meaning. Adequate living means the application of the laws of physical, mental and moral development ?the intelligent use of information concerning food, shelter, clothing, cleanliness, recreation, rest and all that pertains to physical welfare, the appreciation of intellectual advancement which brings balanced mental attitudes and leads to moral poise and spiritual expression. The family budget is a visualized plan by which all of these may function through the routine of family activities. Complete understanding, agreement in purposes, and unity in action, through frequent counseling, are keys to a satisfying home life. The greatest difficulty in establishing a family council in the average home is the embarrassing struggle it causes parents in loosening up age-old customs of autocratic control and in breaking through self-protective aloofness which prohibits free, frank discussions of problems as they really are with the family as a whole. One conscientious, forward-looking father confessed that in making investigations preparatory to family adjustments which were necessary to the security of their happiness he found his greatest struggle in the "de-throning of Dad." The conviction grew upon him that abdication was a possible solution, so he courageously proceeded to strip himself of autocratic rule and to seek sympathetic understanding in the family group. "Each step from the throne," said he, "brings me nearer the hearts of my family and we are learning to pull together." Thus co-operative achievement builds democratic character. It opens the doors to understanding and confidence, loyalty, fairness and tolerance, honesty and dependability, sympathy and service, and it operates just as well on an income of $1,000 a year on the farm as on $10,000 a year in the city?perhaps better.
