[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 4 | Fiction | Throw Down the | Gauntlet Chapter]
[Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter]

January 1967

Dr. George had said about a regression, but she could not break her promise to him. Instead, she asked, "Did you know he sent for Carolyn Bridges? Wally is to meet her plane at noon."

"Well, no, I didn't know that. But I'm glad. We'd better put that old couch on the veranda in Isabelle's room. Carolyn can sleep there beside her. That way we'll know she's watched over. Wally will have to cut a pile of wood for the stove in there, or it gets cold at night. I imagine Isabelle and Carolyn will hit it off together. They're about the same age."

"Oh, yes," Julie murmured. "What kind of fruit or juice do we have, Aunt Cleo? Betz always likes fruit for breakfast."

Cleo swung around from the stove. "You tell her Royal Highness to get out here and pitch in. We've dried apricots and dried apples that she can soak and stew."

"But isn't there some tinned fruit?" Julie persisted.

"I packed it all for the men," Cleo said. "It gets blistering hot out there. They need every little luxury I sent along. Wally can bring some things from the township this morning."

"What about Aunt Isabelle? I promised Dr. George that she would have the very best. Fresh meat, too."

Cleo nodded. "I've thought of that. You and I will go after some fresh meat this very day. We'll leave as soon as the nurse gets here. We'll take one of the old jeeps out where the sheep are grazing. How would you like a leg of lamb? Ummm. Smackin' good!"

"Perfect," Julie agreed. "Lamb is my very favorite."

"Mine, too. That way we'll have some bones for Casey Jones."

"Where is that kelpie?" Julie asked. "I've fixed his plate."

"Beats me." Cleo shook her head. "He is a bit off lately. He's always been the smartest dog in this bush. Uncle Rufe said he could bring in a flock of sheep all by himself. It's not often a dog can do that!"

"He's eight years old," Julie said. "Grandfather knows how Ron loves him. That's why he sent him here to the station, so Ron could see him often when he came up from Perth."

Julie bit her lip. "I hope he didn't follow the men, Aunt Cleo. He could get lost if they didn't see him."

"He might have gone," she answered. "All I know for sure is that he's mighty troubled. He knows something's happened to Ron. Kelpies are gentle and peaceful unless something goes wrong. Then they go plumb daffy about it."

During the morning the station house hummed with activity. Cleo had a job for everyone except Isabelle, and even she insisted on hemming a few flour sacks for tea towels.

"Wally!" she called after him when he followed Betz out to the veranda. "We need heaps of wood cut. And Betz! There are piles of rugs to sweep out. Get busy, you two."

"I was only telling her . . ." Wally began.

Cleo looked at him, her hands on her hips. "I know what you

48

Tell Me of Love

were telling her. Wally Ridge-haven. Now, get going."

Wally shrugged, rolling his eyes heavenward. "You should've been a drover," he said. But he went outside to chop the wood.

"That adorable rascal," Cleo said to Julie, who was washing the dishes. "We love him to pieces, but we can't let him run us around. He reminds me of my Kip—red hair and tipsy smile. Gee, I'm lonely for those little pikers of mine."

"Aunt Tricia will take good care of them," Julie assured her.

"I know," Cleo said petulantly. "They won't even miss me."

"You're their mother," Julie said. "No one, not even wonderful Aunt Tricia, can take your place."

CLEO looked at Julie. There were stars in her eyes. "Righto!" she said, with a sort of glory in her voice. "I'm their mother." She looked around briskly. "Now, let's see. We've got to get a hustle on. I'll start the bread while you mix up the biscuits. Call your friend Betz, and I will show her how to fix this dried fruit. Those men will be plain starved when they get back here. They'll be sick of tinned stuff."

At eleven o'clock Wally and Betz started for the township to meet Carolyn.

Cleo and Julie stood on the veranda and watched them ride off together, their red and gold hair bright and beautiful in the midday sunshine.

"Can't stop the whirlwind," Cleo said. "Say! Look up the road. I think that moving spot might be Casey Jones!"

It was. He was limping toward them, so weak and trembly he could hardly drag his feet.

Julie ran toward him. She knelt down in the dust beside him. He was soaking wet with sweat, breathless and gaunt, and there was a dripping scarlet wound on his shoulder.

"He's been in a fight," Cleo said. "Probably with a dingo who's out there after our sheep! I'll get the wheelbarrow."

They lugged him into the kitchen. Julie sat on the floor cradling his head in her lap. She bathed the wound with an antiseptic Aunt Cleo mixed up, then she coaxed him to swallow a bite or two of dog biscuit soaked in tinned milk.

His brown eyes followed every move she made, pleading with her. He whimpered, trying to get up again.

"What does he want, Aunt Cleo?" Julie asked. "I know he's begging me for something."

"I'm a bush woman, Julie. That gash on his shoulder was made by a dingo. And a big one. He wants us to follow him out there and shoot that dingo before he gets our sheep."

"We'll go," Julie said. "As soon as Carolyn gets here to stay with Aunt Isabelle."

After they had lunched, Julie hurried to her room to put on her high boots as a protection against poisonous snakes.

"Why can't Wally go, too?" Betz asked. "He really wants to go. Cleo promised to show him how to shoot better."

"He is needed here. Betz, Aunt Isabelle might need something from the township. And we'll need more wood for the stove."

49

January 1967

"Then let me go with you," Betz kept on.
Julie shook her head.
"Aunt Cleo has your work planned. You have to watch the bread dough. When it rises, knead it down again. Let it rise the second time, then put it in the oven. Don't let it get too brown. In the meantime, scrub out the cooler with hot water and bicarbonate of soda. We'll have meat and things to store there."
"Is that all?" Betz flared out. "I'm just another Cinderella!"
"You have to pay a price for your Prince Charming," Julie said. "Life on a Ridgehaven property is no picnic, Betz. Remember, Grandfather warned you. Is it worth it?"

A little smile curved Betz' mouth. "It is!" she said. "Where is the scrub bucket?"
"Same place we keep the broom," Julie answered.
Carolyn Bridges came in as Betz went out. Her eyes had wonder in them.
"I can hardly believe it," she said, sitting on the edge of Julie's bunk. "Simply delighted. Your Aunt Isabelle is a different woman. I keep pinching myself to see if I'm really awake!"
"I know," Julie smiled. "I feel the same way. Did Dr. George tell you what he hopes has happened?"
"He wasn't very explicit in his wire," she answered. "But he did say it is either a regression or the results of cobalt treatments. We aren't ready to tell it yet. It will cause much comment."
"I haven't told a soul," Julie said. Then she added to herself: Maybe the prayers of the Ridge-

havens and Dr. George's love had something to do with it. But this idea was only for her secret heart.
"Guess I'm ready," she said, putting her rifle under her arm and slinging it down.
"Take care," Carolyn said. "I wonder if I'll ever outgrow being afraid of guns?"
"It's being used to them," Julie told her. "My father taught me to use a rifle before I was nine years old. We lived way out in the Dead Heart country. A rifle was part of our way of life. Now prepare Aunt Isabelle and all of you for a beaut dinner."
"I'll do that," Carolyn laughed, as she got to her feet. "We'll be ready for a beaut dinner."
Casey Jones leaped to his feet the minute he saw Julie and Cleo ready to leave. He whirled and whimpered, pawing at the door. Then he pulled at Julie's boots.
"We'll take him," Cleo said, flatly. "I've a hunch he can lead us to that dingo. We've got to get him. One dingo means murder for our sheep. You have your grandfather's rifle, so I'll take Geoffrey's. It's the very latest, newer than John's. Now let's check. We have our water bags filled, plenty of bullets, and extra petrol."
Aunt Isabelle came to the doorway, looking radiant in her sky-blue dressing gown.
She hugged each of them. "Good luck, dear ones," she said in her gentle, cultured voice.
Casey Jones settled down on the floor of the jeep, dozing contentedly for several miles.
Julie saw the fields of everlasting flowers before Cleo did. They were a rainbow of color and

50

Tell Me of Love

beauty that stabbed her heart.
"Let's stop, Aunt Cleo," she coaxed. "Ron told me of these flowers in his last letter. I want a bouquet."
"So do I," Cleo said. "We pass Uncle Rufe's grave. I'd like to stop there and leave them on it."
Casey Jones stayed in the jeep while they picked armfuls of the

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with dark hair holding flowers]

flowers. He barked several times as though impatient at the delay, but when they returned he lay down contentedly again.
"Good kelpie," Julie crooned to him.
A few miles farther on, they stopped near the roadside and Cleo trudged through the dust and bush to a rock-covered grave with an elaborate bronze headstone. Julie could not read the inscription from where she sat in the jeep.
"He was the only parent I ever knew," Cleo said when she took the wheel again. "My parents died in a willie-willie. Uncle Rufe was kind, courageous, and the best sheepman in the country. He worked as boss of the shearing sheds for your grandfather for forty years. Every drover and every shearer in all this area wanted to work for him. I used to go with him at shearing time and

cook for the men. I met John at the station back there. One look between us, and we were lost to each other. John knew he couldn't consult his father about our marriage. He would have said no—that his son could not marry the station cook. So John and I went down to Perth and were married. Now we have been through the New Zealand Temple."
"What did your Uncle Rufe say?" Julie wanted to know.
"Very little," Cleo answered, her mouth twisting. "He knew it could mean his job with your grandfather. But he sat there in the kitchen that night that I told him and his eyes had a dreamy, faraway look as if he was thinking of someone I knew nothing about."
"If it means your happiness," he said, "then marry him. You'll be a fine wife. I'd say John Ridgehaven, Junior, is a lucky boy to have your love. That's all I'll ever say to his father. If he gives me the sack for that—well—there are other sheep ranches in Australia. He doesn't own them all. Not quite!"
"He didn't give Uncle Rufe the sack, and when he was killed in another willie-willie that hit out here five years ago, your grandfather came all the way from Sydney for the funeral. He brought that headstone you see engraved in bronze letters: 'Rufe Riley Quinn, for loyal and outstanding service'. Look, now we turn off at the next cattle guard. The sheep are out there about twenty miles."
"There it is!" Julie said a few seconds later.
When Cleo turned the jeep,

51
