[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Experience Lucy May Green]

Experience. By Lucy May Green. The knittingneedles clicked merrily in the hands of the dozen or more women gathered in the comfortable sitting room of Sister Burton of Alvon ward. The occasion was a special meeting of the Relief Society Red Cross workers and the tongues vvagg-ed briskly as the busy fingers plied their needles. In one corner of the room a bright, veracious woman was relating some funny experience and the work was interrupted by peals of m.erry laughter. Another group were discussing recent events in their neighward officers. borhood, and I'm sorry to relate, were criticizing some of their "This will never do," thought President Hunter, "in a moment or two we shall be g'ossiping.''' "Sisters," she called aloud, "let us have a song. We will sing, 'Count Your Blessings.' " A hush fell over the gathering, then a chord was.sounded, and the voices mingled in the familiar hymn of gratitude. "We have many blessings," began the president as the song concluded, "so many that we cannot count them all, some we seldom think of, others we do not use at all. Take for instance, the use of consecrated oil in the home. Many of our people do not even keep a bottle of oil on hand, and if illness comes, and the Priesthood is called to administer the healing ordinance, it has to be done with borrowed oil, or delayed until some can be purchased and consecrated. A bottle of oil occupies first place in my medicine cabinet," she continued, "I could not keep house without it." "That is true," answered Sister Larsen, "we do not half appreciate itsvalue. The last time I visited my 'block' I called at the home of one of our good sisters, and found it all confusion. A two-year-old youngster was screaming lustily in the arms of his mother who was walking the floor in a vain attempt to comfort him. 'Whatever's wrong?' I enquired. 'Why,' she returned, 'my boy is ruptured, and the friction caused by his truss has chafed him badly, and I have no salve or ointment left,' she concluded lamely. " 'Have you any consecrated oil?' said I. " 'Yes, but I would not dare use it myself; that is only for the Priesthood to use,' said she. " 'What an idea!' I replied; 'isn't it to be used in the house- 
 hold of faith? Do you think I'd let my child suffer when a few applications of healing oil would soothe and relieve? And if you would use enough faith, without doubt, it would effect a cure.' But she would not be convinced, and as I left she was planning to send to the drug store for vaseline." "Sisters," said President Hunter, "this is an interesting topic for discussion. Let us have your experiences." "When I came over from England," spoke up Sister Rose, "I brought along a bottle of consecrated oil in my dressing case, and when on board ship, the company of Elders and Saints began to get seasick. Aly oil was kept in constant us for the healing ordinance; in fact, it was the only bottle of oil on board. One faithful old sister became very ill, and was administered to frequently. She died on the overland journey, but I often think of her faith, and the comfort brought about through the administrations of the Priesthood, and my bottle of oil." "My sister Lou," began Sister Bruer. "always takes some consecrated oil when we go on our canyon trips. I used to laiigh at her, but on one occasion, when we all got poisoned through eating some bottled beans, we found it very useful. Tliat was a dreadful recollection.experience," and she shuddered as if to shut out the "Some have faith to heal, others have faith to be healed. The latter has been my especial gift," began Sister Stevens. "PYom my childhood up I have always desired to be administered to whenever I was sick. If no Elders were available, I used the holy oil myself. I have great faith in the blessings pronounced on it when it is consecrated by the Priesthood. I have used it for neuralg'a, for earache, headache and for burns." "That renninds me," observed Sister Mayne. ''Just recently I received a distinct impression to get a new bottle, as mine was almost gone. I did so, and a few days later I was washing and the boiler bubbled over, severely scalding my feet. My folks wanted me to send for the doctor, but I used plenty of gauze soaked in consecrated oil, was also administered to, and in less than two weeks my burns were completely healed, and scarcely 3ny scar remains. It was an additional testimony of the blessings of the gospel," she concluded. "Five o'clock, and time to dismiss," called President Hunter. "We have heard some wonderful experiences; let us profit by them and in counting our many blessings let us return our thanks to our Father in heaven, that he has restored the Priesthood to earth, and the gifts of the gospel, among which is the healing ordinance and the use of the holy consecrated oil."