[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Our New Board Member, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler]

Our New Board Member. MRS. DONNETTE SMITH KESLER. The new member of our Board is the daughter of President Joseph F. Smith and his wife Julina L. Smith, First Counselor of this Board. Her noble parentage did not altogether qualify her for this responsible position, but rather the intelligent use she has made of all her gifts and inheritances. She is a college graduate, a long-time teacher, a loyal daughter, a fond wife, and a devoted and wise mother. She will occupy a most useful yet modest and unassuming place in our active Board membership. She was born in 1872, in Salt Lake City. A thorough student, she graduated from the L. D. S. U. in 1892, and for two years thereafter acted as lady superintendent of that institution. in 1896 she went to the Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, New York, taking up kindergarten work, graduating from that institution with high honors "in 1898. She taught kindergarten work in the University of Utah from 1898 to 1900 P.as Kesler, one of their first specialists. She was married to Alonzo December 26, 1900, who had just returned from the presidency of the Eastern States mission. They were a handsome and striking couple and qualifiedKesler well Sister to assume life's marital responsibilities. still continued in her kindergarten teaching, until 1905, giving special summer courses, not only in Salt Lake City, but in Logan, Ogden and Manti. These courses were the outgrowth of the excellent plans prepared by Sister Kesler for 
 the General Board of the Sunday School Union, and constituted model Sunday School training courses. She therefore laid the foundation for the subsequent kindergarten Sunday School work of the Church. She was one of the first workers in the Salt Lake Temple, was president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the Sixteenth ward for six years, and was on the Salt Lake Stake M. L A. Board under Sister Nellie C. Taylor, until the death of Mrs. Taylor. In later years, Mrs. Kesler has devoted her whole attention to the rearing of her family. She is the mother of six children — three sons and three daughters — the oldest a daughter now 16, the youngest a boy of 6. Two years ago she entered the Forest Dale ward Relief Society, after which she was called to act as superintendent of the genealogical work; and this temple and genealogical labor has engaged all of her spare time in public service since that time. She has worked with her mother in the Temple Clothes Committee work since it was begun, and has been a member of the Surname Book Committee of the General Board, as well as class teacher of the Genealogical Class, held under the charge of the chairman of the committee during the past season in the genealogical class room of the new Church office building. On the 4th of February last, Alonzo P. Kesler died suddenly, leaving his grief-stricken but brave wife to finish her life-work alone. Elder Kesler was at one time president of the Eastern States mission and was always interested in public policies and in the building up of waste places. His death will be keenly felt by his bereaved family. Yet, like a saint, his wife has gathered up her burden cheerfully, not abating one iota of her public or private labors, but meeting all with the serene courage, born of faith and pure integrity. She is a noble representative of her noble and exalted line. From this brief record it will be seen that there is a wide field of labor for Mrs. Kesler on our Board, and she is amply qualified to fill every requirement. She is a fine speaker and natural logician, gifted with patience and tact, a wise counselor, and is a conservative, loyal Latter-day Saint, through and through. We welcome her upon the Board. INSECTS OF THE HOME GARDEN. ^3' Professor JJ\ IT. Henderson, Utah Agricitltural College. There are so many injurious insects which ravage garden crops that it is impossible, and perhaps undesirable in a short article to consider any but those from which we are most likely to suffer injury in our State. We will, therefore, mention only a few of the most flagrant. Many insects feed at night and hide during the day in the recesses of various plants or elsewhere. They are usually protectively colored also, and are not readily seen even when they are doing damage, until they become very numerous. The gardener should therefore keep a watchful eye for the insect intruder. The plants usually show the presence of the enemies by presenting a dwarfed, ragged or discolored appearance. When this occurs, it is high time to look for the offenders. The following insecticides, used in control, can be made up by anyone without previous experience if judgment and care are used in the process: Arsenate of Lead. Mix 3 tablespoonfuls (not heaping) of powdered arsenate of lead into a small quantity of water, making it into a thin paste. Add this to one gallon of water. Keep it stirred when spraying. Poison Bran Mash. Mix 1 ounce of powdered arsenate of lead with 1 pound of bran, juice from half a lemon, a small quantity of syrup or molasses to sweeten, and water enough to dampen. P.ozvdered Lead Arsenate. Mix 1 part of dry arsenate of lead with 3 parts of flour. Use cheese cloth bag or fine spice shaker for.dusting the plants. Soap Solution. Dissolve ^4 pound of laundry soap in 1 gallon of water. Tobacco Solution. Mix 1 teaspoonful of nicotine sulphate in 3 gallons of water in which has been dissolved 2 ounces of laundry soap. Great caution is urged in making up and using insecticides. Lead arsenate and nicotine sulphate as well as the insecticides made from them are very poisonous and extreme care must be taken to keep them out of reach of small children and away from poultry or other domestic animals. •O «: '% eo en u. nts the by of quantities arsenate lead with spray or arsenate lead in pla ej ej attacked being plants u. ce! O cng o mash >> w 03 rt-O a; O +-) (U.2 ■ o o cI-. small bran u <u < a o >. cen ly poison XI '> "a out > C Dip Set ■M (U CO bfl c en '3 C.2 en •« §^ ej en — H S C ej ^^ en s W s> C ^^ Ul -d J3 W O oregon |iSg. « set,tin out uti IS sol bef <u O <u o cbe < H _C "E W 'Si en 1) Ul ^ 0en S be> bfi bfi en be H U o U biO '5 W Q 3.S O Cmr% u. "o eu oJ is -S H c c >> en <u o<u' Ul P Q ^'' O eu ■^ be > Ul V < en.SlU <u m rt o ^ H U CO wen b ej bfl c en ej C e u ej ■'-' -^ £ "3 0 t '^ en en OJ u en O o > C., a en §■£ s be X) en Ul o u > O > O C > CO eu HCO W^ W p en p p t« W OJ Q bfiiC c c03 O c o en rt > en en en (L> ^■^ 1^ (U 4L OJ (U H O O O c3 _C < oT,- C ^2:=;.S'0 en en Ph 0 u X<U o 6 n!