[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 757 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Something Special for the Party | Zola McGhie]
, then in finely chopped peppermint stick candy, then in powdered sugar. Place in refrigerator to chill. SUNSET PUNCH 2 pkgs. Lemon sherbet mix 3 pts. Cranberry juice 2 no. 2 cans (5 c.) grapefruit juice juice of 3 limes 2 12 oz. Cans frozen orange juice red food coloring (dilute as directed) 2 qts. Dry gingerale Prepare and freeze sherbet as directed on package. Combine chilled juices. Add gingerale and lemon sherbet. Tint to desired color. Pour in punch bowl or glasses. May use hollowed-out watermelon for punch bowl.

an, bree tumb g through the young hild; or wisi 3 dancing with yc ad s. The son who f i 8 Q a 5 Ve nu. 1, m for the Party y (\ Zola McGhie W) (a) Member, General Board of Relief Society \) + <0 tt +t? —_— _ —_-—t_ ~~ —t-—~ Gaaaaaaaaa\ }} "<< a a a> a a a a <— «<< Se I >. A aa OAHU FRAPPE 14 c. Sugar 1 c. Orange juice 14 c. Syrup (white or brown) 2 c. Pineapple juice 14 c. Water gingerale, as desired grated rind of 1 orange Simmer sugar, syrup, water, and grated orange rind for 5 minutes. Cool and add orange juice and pineapple juice. Freeze to mush. Fill glasses three-fourths full.

[The Home Inside and Out Something Special for the Party Zola McGhie]

SUGGESTIONS Make punch extra festive by freezing ice into star shapes and floating them in the punch bowl. Use small candy canes as stir sticks in hot punch. Ca Self-Imposed Mending Iris W. Schow I was a teen-ager, just through the tenth grade, when my only sister was born. Grandma stayed with us during Mother's absence, so the excellent cooking to which we were accustomed went right on, except for a few dessert disasters concocted by me. But three lively younger brothers had many needs, and Grandma was lame. Our tall farmhouse, with its hallways and pantry, demanded much housekeeping. The cream separator had thirty-five numbered disks to be washed separately twice daily. Altogether, I had plenty to do. Besides, I had two important projects: to finish Mother's interrupted house cleaning, and to complete my pink dress, the unfinished masterpiece of my school sewing course. Grandma's discovery of Mother's cache of all the materials for a pretty patchwork quilt, set together with sky-blue sateen, must have stirred some memory of things she had done without while rearing her own ten children. She promptly resolved to finish the quilt before Mother's return. So up went the quilting frames, and we were off, regardless of my teenage resentment at the delay to my own plans. One day when Grandma asked for the embroidery scissors, I slid them across that quilt so violently that their points pierced right through the blue sateen, making a nasty little hole. Grandma gave me an inquiring look, but said nothing. Getting Mother's sewing basket, I compared cotton embroidery flosses until the blue sateen was matched perfectly. I put my heart into my-mending. It had to be good. That hole was a product of temper. The mending had to be so good that nobody could say it was anything but good. As I worked, I kept thinking. Losing one's temper always necessitates mending, including apology and restitution. While I tried in my mind various wordings for an apology, I made an important decision.