[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 740 | Special Feature | The Maguey Story Leanor | J. Brown]
The Maguey Story Leanor J. Brown]

Maguey plants near the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotichuacdn Central Mexico At the left may be seen tall cactus plants, interspersed with small desert flowers plies. The Mexican farmer cuts the center of the plant and, with a long, brown, hollow gourd draws off a liquid called "agua miel," or honey water. The average yield is about five quarts a day for as long as six months. When the honey water is first drawn out it is very nutritious, but it ferments rapidly and, after twenty-four hours, becomes alcoholic. After this takes place the liquid is called "'pulque"' —the drink that contributed to the destruction of the great Toltec Empire in the twelfth century A. D. It is a sad commentary on human nature that of all the things this unusual plant offers mankind, he seeks most the only one that lends itself to destructive use.

I remember having several vivid impressions while watching the demonstration of the maguey plant. I thought how many different analogies could be drawn between this plant and our lives. As we were being enlightened on one after another of its uses, I found myself wondering how I would stand up under such scrutiny. If all eyes were suddenly turned in my direction, waiting to see what I had to offer, could I stand as erect as the majestic maguey, knowing I had developed the gifts within me? How will it be, I thought, when the Master of all looks at my offering? To pass by this plant—merely to look at it—one would never imagine it had so rich an offering. In like manner, we seldom know the richness of another's soul. We see only what is obvious to the eye. Tied to convention and the ritual of routine, we suppress the desire to step beyond the familiar pattern, and yet we live our years longing for "'a sense of oneness with our kind... Thirsting to know and understand." The story of the maguey plant is a story of life. The good and the bad are present in all men and in all nature. In us, as in the '"'sacred plant" of the Aztecs, are special gifts with which to build or destroy, but, unlike the maguey plant, we have the power to choose how these gifts are to be used. 741 Helen Hinckley Jones "Lah-lah me," Sean begs when he is bathed and in his sleepers. "TLah-lah me, Daddy." His father takes the tiny boy in his arms, holds him against his left shoulder, puts his cheek against the little head nestled in his neck, and dances and sings. There aren't words to this special vesper song — just lah-lah. After the song, there is a story, a prayer, and a goodnight kiss. The final sentence is spoken softly but firmly. "That's all. Good night, Sean." Craig, who is four, has been allowed to "visit with Momie," while two-year-old Sean is lahlahed. Now it is his turn with his father; the same loving arms, the same song, the same dance, a more complicated story, a prayer with which he doesn't need help, the same gentle kiss, and the same firm sentence, '"That's all. Good night, Craig." After this evening ceremony, there is no calling out for another drink, no hopping in and out of bed, no fussing around.