[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 793 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "Patience and Forbearance" Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Lesson 3—''Patience and Forbearance" Elder Robert K. Thomas "In your patience possess ye your souls.''-—New Testament (Luke 21:19) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show that a woman who lets patience turn into resignation is substituting endurance for forbearance. (Note to Class Leader: This lesson will include the musical selection Brahms, Symphony No. 1, 2d Movement, from the Relief Society teaching aid kit.) INTRODUCTION It is appropriate that a section concerning patience should follow the two preceding lessons discussing cheerfulness and honesty, for patience often carries needlessly bleak connotations and, occasionally, is surrounded by illusions. When Henry David Thoreau insisted that resignation was "confirmed desperation," he was 

793 October 1967

 hoping to jar his readers into an awareness that some of the accepted Christian virtues were in danger of being weakened by alignment with their slightly more passive counterparts. For example, determination may become mere doggedness. Prudence turns into caution; and patience becomes resignation. The distinctions here may seem minor, hardly recognized by the dictionary, but, in practice, they have made an immense difference. For they have led many people to accept a less demanding standard under the impression that one was the equivalent of another. When resignation, for instance, is used as a synonym for patience, active effort does not seem to be quite so rigorously demanded. There is a suggestion of merely "hanging-on" in resignation. Patience should not be confused with such a state. The stereotype of the patient man is Job. Afflicted with boils, derided by many of his associates, he sits among ashes in tormented, passive resignation to the apparent will of God. The first two chapters of the book of Job suggest such a picture, but, beginning with chapter three, we have thirty-nine chapters which should deepen our understanding of Job's special difficulty and the general problem of patience. He is not resigned to his state, and in dialogue with the friends who come to comfort him, he tries his best to understand what has happened. It is the so-called comforters who exhort him simply to accept. Lest we assume that this is what the Lord wants in this case, we need to remember his explicit statement to the comforters 794 in the final chapter:.. My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath (Job 42:7). SONNET 19 "ON H! S BLINDNESS" BY JOHN MILTON Milton's celebrated sonnet on his blindness makes just the right discriminations: When I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He returning chide; "Doth God exact day-labor, light denied?" I fondly ask. But patience, to prevent That murmur, soon replies, "God doth not need. Either man's work or his own gifts. Who best Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. His state Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed, And post o'er land and ocean without rest; They also serve who only stand and wait." This poem helps establish perspective. The Lord doesn't depend on the work of man, and the most frustrating part of our devotion to him may well stem from the fact that some of the obvious ways to serve may be denied us. "Day-labor"' is easy to understand and easy to give. The parable of the talents which is here referred to appears to support this idea of active effort.

It needs to be remembered that the final line does not refute the concept of work as Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT ~ CLASS LEADERS.. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.- Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12', 33Y3 rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send_ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 ALSO AVAILABLE FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY AND B. Y. U. ADULT EDUCATION CENTERS Tour-ific! MEXICO Monthly HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 ROSE PARADE For all travel and ticketing arrangements ARET liad ney 110 East 2nd South _ Salt Lake City, Utah ].. 2h 571-03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245.6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Lesson Department service; it only suggests that we are not always allowed to set the conditions under which we serve. As we prepare ourselves to receive counsel at the Lord's hand, the result is dynamic. Waiting is not an end in itself but the prelude to something we have yet to envision. Few poems are more successful than this in establishing a fresh look at patience. The problem is not whether one can endure calamity; the real test is whether one can persist and grow. Although there has been some discussion by critics concerning the precise date of this poem, it is generally agreed that it was probably written between 1652 and 1655 while Milton was Secretary for Foreign Tongues to the Council of State. Apparently he was totally blind by 1652 at the age of forty-four, although the exact cause of his blindness has never been discovered. There is no question but that Milton was overwhelmed by his loss, and his usual self-confidence appears to have been dealt a crushing blow. But there is little justification in citing this poem as one of total abnegation, for Milton has made peace with his fate. He is saying that his own deeds and genius are of less value than personal integrity. He is prepared to receive counsel at the-Lord's hand. For Discussion What danger is there in using the final line of Sonnet 19 without seeing it in its poetic context? "AND NOW TO LIVE AGAIN" We see a very courageous young woman persist and grow in Betsey Barton's And Now to Live Again. Confined to a wheelchair 

795 October 1967

 from her youth as the result of an automobile accident, Miss Barton lets us see her beginning despondency and final triumph. When she finally sets down an account of her private Gethsemane, however, she has been able to transmute pain and despair into insight and understanding. In so doing she details the process by which we may all turn from the apparently hopeless to the clearly hopeful. Not the least of Miss Barton's accomplishment is persuading her readers that expectation of recovery need not underlie patience. In fact, the full meaning of patience is lost on the person who finds in it only the discipline of waiting for his pain to cease or his difficulties to vanish. In reading Miss Barton's account we begin to appreciate the statement of the apostle Paul. In 2 Corinthians 12: 7-10, he tells us that he "'besought the Lord thrice" that his "thorn in the flesh" might be taken from him. When it was not, he learned not only to accept it but to glory "in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities." Such a positive approach rescues patience from its too easy identification with mere endurance. For Discussion To be patient usually suggests waiting for a positive result after a period of distress. Why is patience still meaningful to someone in Miss Barton's condition? POEMS BY WANG WEI! Besides being a major poet, Wang Wei (699-759) was a fine painter and musician. In addition he was known as a _ physician. When he was in his early thirties, 796 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper maché jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Phone 486-1017 THINKING ABOUT GE NE. LoGy? LET US HELP YOU! Competent Professional Research at prices You can afford VAIL RESEARCH FOUNDATION Box 581 Salt Lake City, Utah MEXICO WHERE THE SUNSHINE AND FLOWERS SPEND THE WINTER FIESTA TOUR February 3-18 Fully Escorted ONLY $250 (double occupancy) Includes all Ist class hotels, transportation, sightseeing, 12 meals VISIT ELEVEN ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES Leaving from and returning to El Paso, Texas, by train—first class, immaculate private bedrooms, club car and diner ERMA WHITE 15 years experience taking tours to Mexico Call: 484-9752 Write: 1795 East 3170 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 SPACE LIMITED! Make reservations immediately Mountain West's first an printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inzine is in a mee y bound cover. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound struction of each month's Relief Society Mages The finest bindery and to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5. Yearly Index Included 25 Advance payment must accompony all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... Zone 3...........60 Zone 7.......-..51. Zone 4...........65 Zone 8..........1. Zone 5 80 Lesson Department his wife died, and he retired from government activity to devote himself to poetry and religion. As a young man, Wang Wei had become a proficient narrative poet, but the poems we remember him best for today are the short, intuitive lyrics which catch the essence of his Taoist-Buddhist devotion. The poetry of Wang Wei introduces us to Oriental serenity. Such serenity may appear to be unusually attractive when contrasted with Western activity. Thousands of years and myriad lives seem to support the quiet passivity of these Chinese lyrics. The mood of calm acceptance in such work lays a gentle hand on the merely frenetic. Even the most specific references do not compromise the universal quality of these poems. Note how the following lines transcend their local setting: At the little dock by the willow trees people are embarking on journeys— I know that the boatman will bring you safe to your destination. When the fresh colors of Spring return I will think of you, Whether you travel South or North, my thoughts will follow you. This little poem escapes the stultifying lassitude which characterizes much Oriental poetry. Consider the following poem which suggests that if we set too long a perspective, all individual effort seems futile: There are many new houses in Nanshu; Old trees are gone but the willows remain. One does not know who of the coming generation will visit here. No matter—in the same way did the last generation conjecture. 

797 October 1967

 If the unending cycle of life and death is given such emphasis here that the reflections of a single person seem of little moment, a final poem by Wang Wei catches just the right combination of graceful adaptation to the inevitable: Daily man grows old without the hope of youth's return, Though Springtime yearly fades to reappear again. Therefore drink with tranquil hearts, And grieve not for the falling petals of Spring flowers. For Discussion Is the kind of life we glimpse in the poetry of Wang Wei possible today? MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS AURELIUS If the stoicism of Marcus Aurelius is not quite so passive (at least in practice) as the Taoist position of Wang Wei, yet there is more than a superficial resemblance between these philosophies. Both stress a world order which is set. Man must find his place in such an order, and any attempt to make a place rather than find it can only result in frustration and unhappiness. The following excerpt from Book III of the Meditations is typical: III, 16. If many qualities are held in common, there remains that which is peculiar to the good man. His distinction lies in being pleased and content with what happens, and with the thread that is spun for him.... And if all men refuse to believe that he lives a simple, modest, and contented life, he is neither angry with any of them, nor does he deviate from the way which leads to the end of life, to which a man ought to come pure, tranquil, ready to depart, and perfectly reconciled to his fate. 798 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 841711 Dept. R. M. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 14-29 e ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco December 26 through January 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 As attractive as this sounds, the Roman Stoic too often became so preoccupied with self-discipline that he lost touch with humanity, divesting himself of responsibility toward his fellow men. Patience and forbearance may be lonely states, but they are not meaningfully achieved by isolation from the world. For Discussion What are the special difficulties of using a Stoic philosophy to direct a nation? What is least attractive about the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius? A NOISELESS, PATIENT SPIDER The final selection for this month, is Walt Whitman's "A Noiseless, Patient Spider," one of his most successful efforts: A noiseless, patient spider, I mark'd where, on a little promontory, it stood, isolated; Mark'd how, to explore the vacant, vast surrounding, It launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself; Ever unreeling them—ever tirelessly speeding them. Lesson Department And you, O my soul, where you stand, Surrounded, surrounded, in measureless oceans of space, Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throw- —ing,—seeking the spheres, to connect them; Till the bridge you will need, be form'd —till the ductile anchor hold; Till the gossamer thread you fling, catch somewhere, O my soul. In this lovely poem all human and divine aspirations are effectively caught. We must reach outside ourselves for both temporal and spiritual satisfaction. Without fanfare but in untiring persistence, we must attempt to establish the realities of our life. The final line carries just the right tone. It is not if "the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere," but "till." Patience is finally rewarded. For Discussion Why is a spider spinning a good image for man's attempt to find reality? After checking its dictionary meaning, why is "ductile" such a good choice in the next-to-last line in "A Noiseless, Patient Spider'?