The Relief Society Magazine - October 1967, Vol. 54, No. 10

OCTOBER 1967, VOL. 54, NO. 10

At Half-Past Autumn Peggy Tangren The year is measured by a shadow's length And now it is half-past autumn. Behind small weirs of sodden maple leaves Rain waters deepen into little lakes; The cradling nest has emptied To a sky wedge of swift wings. Two months ago this forest reeled And roared defiance In wars with storm and wind And held its roots. But now, at half-past autumn, A soughing fills the pauses in the woods' deep breathing. October, tremulous and slow, Descends the mountain Down from cliff and canyon To the drowsing hills, Then waits, as an aging patriarch Who, seeing beyond his sightless eyes, A vision of resurgence, and its keeping, Stands waiting with the waiting land.

The Cover: Sun and Shadow in Zion Canyon, Utah Transparency by Willard Luce Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Fish Lake on the High Plateau, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

I am twenty-one years of age and a student nurse. I have been a member of the Church for nine months and many times the Magazine has been a great encouragement in strengthening my faith. I love the stories and lessons, and the poetry has a special appeal.

Margery Miller Dublin, Ireland

I have had to ask to be released as Magazine representative for Baldwin Park Ward, West Covina Stake, as my eighty-two years have, perhaps, rebelled at all the running around I have so very much enjoyed doing. No doubt I will still "guide" some of the subscribers to our new representative, Sister Kole.

Mabel C. Ridley Baldwin Park, California

We are living in La Paz, Bolivia, where my husband is working as a cereal advisor with a contract team from Utah State University. We enjoy the Magazine possibly even more here than at home, where so much is taken for granted. The Magazine is more beautiful all the time.

Jayne D. Van Epps La Paz, Bolivia

The Magazine is a real source of spiritual nourishment to myself and family. (When my daughter, who is eighteen, left for work this morning, she took a Magazine with her for reading at lunch time.) I always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and have my own index on stories, poems, articles, recipes, gospel doctrine, etc. that I find pertinent to my needs and disposition. The poetry is especially lovely. It is usually delicate and sensitive pastel colors of exquisite expression.

Wanda F. Hilton Walnut Creek, California

722

I received the June 1967 issue of the Magazine today, and felt excited and happy to see the note on the From Near and Far page from Nita Olsen, as she has been my friend for more than twenty years. We once lived in the same branch in Australia, and we still correspond to this day. She married and settled in Ogden eight years ago and has two children. I am married to an Aussie and have four children. My husband and I were on a building mission to New Zealand for two years and our first two sons were born there. I learned to make over clothes for my family and attended Relief Society regularly. I am thankful for the good and uplifting messages in the Magazine the stories and the lessons. I am enthused over the "Mix-and-Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June Magazine. I love to learn and am grateful for the development one can obtain from Relief Society and from the Magazine.

Elaine Troy Beal Wood North Parramatta N. S. W. Australia

I love The Relief Society Magazine and can never throw any of the numbers away. I especially enjoy the poetry. "Wind Lullaby," by Beulah Huish Sadleir in the April issue is just right for this spring. I hope sometime to see one of her poems as a frontispiece.

Maxine Lind Salt Lake City, Utah

I am most grateful for The Relief Society Magazine, and also to be able to be a member of the Relief Society, the privilege of baptism, and becoming a member of the Church in 1966.

Norma Gill Park Alhambra, California

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.