[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 745 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
"a, Woman's. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Martha Elizabeth Peterson, who grew up on a farm near Salina, Kansas, is the new president of Barnard College, New York. She succeeds Rosemary Park (Anastos) who has been appointed vicepresident for educational planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. Miss Peterson is leaving the University of Wisconsin, where she was dean of student affairs. She has a doctorate in educational psychology and a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Kansas. Elizabeth Allen, eighty-three, Kent, England, is a maker of ''quilt-pictures,'' which have been exhibited by Crane Kalman in his London galleries. Her small, neat, mystical designs, made of scraps of silk and satin, have been compared in luminosity to the paintings of Klee and Picasso. Others have compared her to ''Grandma Moses," yet, instead of being happy pastoral recollections of childhood scenes, such as Grandma Moses presented, the work of Elizabeth Allen is imaginative and portrays events and scenes evanescent and unreal. Dorothy McGinnis is executive secretary of the American Association of School Librarians. She is responsible for keeping up-to-date and selecting books for school libraries. Nurses are now more than ever needed in many posts of service throughout the world. In the United States at least 62,000 more registered nurses are needed. 745 and Thy Mother" Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Exodus 20:12). Like all great commandments, the fifth commandment is as glorious and far-reaching in its implications today as it was in that time when Moses came down from Sinai ''and builded an altar... And the Lord said unto Moses... I will give thee tablets of stone, and a law, and commandments... That thou mayest teach them... And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai..." In all the time of man during the eras of the gospel, the ''patriarchal commandment," as it is sometimes called, has strengthened the generations which have observed obedience to its requirements. On the hill of Calvary, Jesus remembered his mother and honored her. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother.... When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman behold thy son! Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her into his own home (John 19:25-27). Counsel regarding the relationship of parents and children is abundantly given in The Book of Mormon, in the Doctrine and Covenants, and in the words of present-day prophets. If parents would be honored as their children pass through the various stages of reaching emotional and spiritual maturity, they will need to begin early to train their children in habits of industry, responsibility, and generosity. Often the most permissive parents reap the greatest indifference, rebellion, and disobedience from their children. An early realization that one must be able and willing to give as well as to receive is essential training for a child. (\ Volume 54 October 1967 Number 10 M@ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ME Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor M@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer 746 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. WilkinsonIrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C.