[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 746 | General Feature | Editorial "Honour Thy Father and Thy Mother" | Vesta P. Crawford]
EDITORIAL "Honour Thy Father How can the grownup children, those in homes of their own, honor their living parents? By helping to fulfill the needs of older parents— whether the needs be financial, emotional, or spiritual. Many grandparents wish to have a '"'share'"' in the grandchildren who are carrying into a new generation the heritage-and ideals of the family. The sharing may consist of visits, letters, small and intimate gifts of remembrance. Much more than a span of earth life is pertinent to the commandment—''Honour thy father and thy mother,'' for the precept includes the families through time and eternity. Books of Remembrance, genealogical work, family records, are all a part of family love and union, and, most certainly, a way of honoring the fathers and mothers—back through the previous eras upon the earth—and a way of protecting the beloved family circle into the eternities. A young man thought of this eternal blessing while serving a mission in England. Once, as he traveled to a district conference, he was privileged to visit the ancestral cottage of his great-grandfather. His thoughts were profound, and they became a part of his later life: Here I am in Harlow, Essex, in this lovely land. These ancient hedges my ancestor trimmed; he walked these stone paths; he loved this green and rainy land. Because of him and his spiritual yearnings, I was born under the gospel covenant, for he heard the message of the restored gospel in this village. Our fathers and mothers, near to us and more distant in the generations, can be honored by our remembrance of their precepts. The teachings that made them strong and valiant can help us to meet with wisdom and courage our own ever-present problems. Let us glean also from their journals, their letters, their family records—from the memory of their spoken words. A dear grandmother whose footsteps faltered and whose hands were crippled and weak, realizing that her earth-life was near its end, wrote a farewell letter to a sixteen-year-old granddaughter who lived far away, offering words of love and wisdom. Be patient, honest, endure, remember the eyes of the Heavenly Father are upon you—live nobly, and await the glorious eternities. Then she added a few lines of poetry: When my aged head is laid to rest, And my girl is a woman grown— And the worries of life surround her, May the Grandmother's prayers be known.... That letter is still like a banner before the eyes of the granddaughter —who remembers. Thus may the fathers and the mothers—and all of those of the tree of life be honored throughout the generations. What person anywhere can achieve his greatest possibility without a legacy from the knowledge and wisdom proved over the ages? The family tree has roots and branches and twigs and a bowery of singing leaves. Where is the tree which can grow without roots—what tree can blossom without its lovely branches? —V. P. C.