[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 763 | Fiction | At the End of a Pilgrimage Marilyn | McMeen Miller]
At the End of a Pilgrimage at Green River. I accepted it. At least we did not have to set up camp and build fires. The motel room we took at seven o'clock was equipped with running water and heat. I was more than grateful to shed my wet clothing and take a warm shower. The children finally sank into sleep, and Mother and I listened to the lull of the rain far into the evening. "Marcia, I am so glad you decided to come to Zion. It is where you belong. We'll reach Paul tomorrow, and as the song says, 'All is well!'"? She smiled and reached for her handkerchief. A slight case of sniffles had caught her in this afternoon's episode. Sleep was more than precious to me. In the morning, I felt renewed, and as if I needed to take life a little more easily all along. I saw the sun rise on a dim, yet fresh world, and I felt ashamed that I had been in such a hurry for the future without looking about me and noticing the beauty of life along the way. In the quiet hush of dawn, I looked at the small face of my mother-in-law, delicate on the pillow. I regretted having counted the days and hours I was to have been in the valley with Paul again when I could have more eagerly lived each moment I had been with his mother, learning from her wisdom. When the children were awake, and we had breakfasted, we set out again on the highway, relaxed and eager to reach the destination which now, in reality, lay just ahead of us. We talked about the temple, the organiza- 

765 October 1967

 tion of the Church, the Relief Society. "It's all something which I have been very blessed to share with others all my life,' Mother said. She had begun to cough. I was afraid she had caught cold, and told her to bundle up more carefully. We turned up the heat in the car. "Oh, don't worry about me. 'm all right," she said over and over again. I cannot explain my feeling at seeing the spires of the temple rise up in the city. Truly, I had reached the end of my journey. I trembled with excitement. Paul had given me the address of his new office. We were earlier than he expected, so we would surprise him. In the rush of afternoon traffic, we could find only a small parking spot on a side street. Pioneer women had never had this problem to contend with, I murmured, as I swung the steering wheel from one extreme to the other, trying to fit the big car into the small space. I finally succeeded. My mother-in-law and I gathered the children and walked up to the office. It was an old building, remodeled luxuriously. I was so proud of Paul, my heart was nearly bursting. '"He's not here at this moment, Ma'am, but I'm sure he'll be back shortly, if you would like to wait a while," a dark-haired girl at the desk told us. We could have gone to Uncle Fred's where Paul was staying now, but I. Did not want to rush in on their busy family at this time. And, besides, I was too impatient to see my husband. So 766 we decided to wait. We waited for two solid hours until Paul returned from looking at some prospective property. "Marcia!" he exclaimed, amazed to see us so soon. He had not expected that we could make the trip so hard and fast. "Paul!" I cried, rushing at him. I must have looked weary beneath my stringy, straight hair. But Paul was happy to see me. "You must have driven like wildfire!" he said. "TI didn't want to stop at all. I missed you." I nearly choked on the words. Paul looked at his mother. She stifled a cough, and her eyes were twinkling, yet calm. "You've got a cold, Mother. We'd better take care of that." Then, taking the children, he led the way out of the office as it was now past closing time. "I'm really so glad to see all of you. I hope you got here safely without any accidents." He had chosen a house for us, but the tenants would not be out of it for two days. "It was the best deal our office had going," he said excitedly. When we drove by it, I thought it looked like a dream home. It was my Zion. I had come, safely, to the end of my journey. We were warmly welcomed at Uncle Fred's house, and we talked eagerly about going to the temple. We planned to go the next morning with Uncle Fred and his wife Etty. I felt such a thrill of gratitude. By the next morning, however, Mother registered a high fever. Her forehead was flushed and hot and she did not feel like getting out of bed. So we had to leave her. She urged us to go and we said morning prayers at her bedside before we left. As we drove along through the morning traffic we discussed the great growth of the magnificent city which was built on the dreams of a few hardy people. Tall buildings were etched against the blue sky. The pioneers had found their destination here— their resting place—the end of their journey, as I had found it. I felt a peace. At last I had completed my journey. I could say "All is well!" Our marriage in the temple was something too beautiful to try to describe in words. The peace and patience of the Lord descended into our lives from that moment as we had never before felt
