Bazaar Sewing — Multi-Purpose Bag Jean R. Jennings AZAARS! — Bazaars! — Bazaars! What shall we do about bazaars? Everyone has them. The big problem is "How can we improve them?" 'That is, how can women spend less time in making more profit and eliminate wasted effort? Obviously, this would involve bazaar items that have a small initial cost and take a minimum of time to make. 'Too frequently women spend precious time making fussy things that bring only a small revyenue. Some thought should also be given to the possible usefulness of the articles to the buyer. This bag is useful, appealing, and involves a very minimum of expense to make. In addition, it ls simple enough even for beginning sewers and takes little time. This is a bag designed as a travel case for jewelry. It could also be turned into a party bag for teenagers and young women. Enlarged, and made of sturdier material, it would serve as a tote-bag and double for carrying handwork. Make this bag as lovely or elegant as you can from scraps of material left over from dressy and formal dresses. If you don't have pieces, collect some from friends and neighbors who have made brocaded or embroidered gowns. Fabrics with silver or gold threads woven through are effective to use. Line the bags with gay pieces of contrasting or blending satins, taffetas, or crepes that you may have bundled up and saved. For large-sized tote bags, unearth drapery or upholstery remnants, or pieces of decorative denim or chintz. Page 450 Line these with the same fabric or pieces of gingham, muslin, or polished cotton. For the jewelry-size or party-size bags you will need circles of cloth as follows: One circle each of fabric and lining 12 inches in diameter. One circle each of fabric and lining 9 inches in diameter. One circle of cardboard 3% inches in diameter. In addition, the bag calls for 1% yards of cord or narrow ribbon for drawstrings and 4o inches of beading or open braid to serve as casing for draw-strings. Small rings may be sewed on the edge in place of braid. If so, 16 will be needed. O make the bag, begin by sewing the circles of lining to the circles of fabric, right sides together. Take % inch seams and leave three inches unsewed to allow for turning. Then turn circles right side out, slip stitch together unstitched portions of the edges, and baste and press seams flat. Next center the cardboard circle on the lining side of the large circle of fabric. Place the smaller circle over it with the lining against the cardboard. Baste in place and then stitch around the cardboard on the machine as close as possible. See illustration. Now make pockets to hold earrings or small jeweled pins by stitching on the machine as shown in the illustration. If the bag is to be used as a party purse, pockets may be made in sizes to fit comb, compact, lipstick, etc. 'The center section of BAZAAR SEWING RINGS FOR ORAW STRINGS {2"CIRCLE OF LINED CLOTH - oe a or N 451 Y~ START ONE DRAW =) STRING HERE RCLE OF D CLOTH 32" CIRCLE OF ann —————-4 CARDBOARD-SEWED \ BETWEEN 2 LARGER } CIRCLES wee 1. STITCHING LINE FOR POCKETS Ts, START ONE DRAW C) STRING HERE wav the bag, made either way, will hold larger articles. Sew beading or braid to the edge of the larger circle, cut ribbon or cord in half and thread through for drawstrings. 'Tie ends of each together. If rings are used, sew them to the edge, spacing them evenly. A casing may be made for drawstrings by sewing the lining to the outside, making a channel all around the edge. If this is done, the large circles should be cut an inch wider to allow for it. A few beads or sequins, placed attractively, can do much to dress up the bag made to carry for formal parties. It would be unwise to spend a great deal of time doing this, as it may not add enough value to warrant the time and energy used. When this pattern is enlarged and used for a sturdier bag, remember to use firmer cardboard for the bottom. When enlarging the circles, be sure they keep the proportions approximately the same. Pockets may be stitched in sizes to fit the purpose for which the bag is made. Rings are better to hold the strings on larger bags, since the circle is too large to close with beading on the edge. Bone and metal rings are available in drapery departments or at notion counters.