Vork ITleeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson | — Safeguarding the Health of Your Family Maria Johnson For Tuesday, October 11, 1960 Objective: To help each one to become more alert to the need for applying simple, well-established principles for the prevention of disease and for safeguarding the health of the family. New Frontiers of Health Just as we are learning more of nature's laws in the exploration of outer space, so we are discovering more of nature's laws for the development and health of man. As the frontiers of health expand, these new and exciting discoveries bring new challenges. What we need to stress today, our health authorities tell us, is the application of the health knowledge we already have. Knowledge does not insure health. It is how we apply this knowledge that counts. Sanitation is important. It began with the disposal of body wastes and filth, and then with providing safe water supplies. With the invention of the microscope, man found that he was surrounded by living organisms so small they could not be seen with the naked eye. Many of them were found to be our friends; others, our cnemies and responsible for communicable or catching diseases and infections. 'The next great discovery was immunization. Programs of sanitation and immunization have made remarkable achievement since the turn of the century and make possible the control of all but a very few of our communicable diseases. If these programs were done away with, epidemics of all these diseases would soon reappear. Modern public health agencies are carrying on immunization proPage 478 grams and a_ never-ending battle against the spread of disease-producing germs. The programs have to do with safe drinking water, safe milk supplies, garbage and sewage disposal, inspection of meat and public eating places, and insect and rodent control, to name but a few. The effectiveness of these programs depends upon the understanding and co-operation of the citizens of each State and community. Failure to support these programs comes not from lack of knowledge, but lack of a feeling of one's personal responsibility. Even today, with all our knowledge, much unnecessary sickness exists. Accidents in the home are also the cause of many preventable disabilities. Most of these accidents would not happen if each home applied the safety rules such as were discussed in the safety lessons presented in Relief Society last year.