Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 8 — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part I: Concepts of God Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, October 25, 1960 Objective: To discover how our concepts of God influence our potentialities for spiritual living. Introduction HE meaning and focus which spiritual living has for us depend significantly upon many factors, among which are included our concept of divinity, our concept of man, our understanding of the purpose of life, and the value we 488 place upon people. The concept which we have of God determines the type of relationship which we establish with him. Since relationships with God and others form the core of spiritual living, the type of relationships we establish must, of necessity, be of major concern to persons seeking the spiritual life. Importance of Learning About and Worshiping God There would be little controversy, if any, among Latter-day Saints regarding the importance of worshiping God and seeking to keep his commandments. Such passages of scripture as, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37); and "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3) are commonly known and subscribed to by all of us. But what does it really mean to love God, to know God? Man cannot begin to know all there is to know about God. In fact, what we presently know is probably a minute part of all there is to know and that we may some day come to understand. Nevertheless, all of us have certain basic beliefs and feelings about God. We have obtained and developed these beliefs and feelings from many different sources and many different experiences. Even though we worship the same God and have been taught from many common sources, it ls quite probable that the nature of God and our relationship to him takes on a slightly different meaning for each of us. We would now hike to explore some general ways of looking at God and consider the influence of these concepts and beliefs upon us and our behavior. Nature of God God is far greater than we can adequately describe. His whole nature and character are beyond our comprehension. Learning to know him, therefore, becomes a major challenge to us. It behooves us to be cognizant of the many factors which color the interpretation and concept which we have of God. 'The difference between what God is and our view of him is indicated in the following scriptures: Seck ve the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near: Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts (Isaiah 55:6-9). Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend (Mosiah 4:9). It is impossible in our present state of being to know the nature of God fully, but it is important for us to take a careful look at the concept of God which we have and the influence this has upon our perceived relationship with God and, in turn, the influence which our