together make a structure which cannot help but impress anyone who sees it. This favorite queen of Shah Jahan was a real companion to him, and shared his work. She was with him on one of his GLIMPSES OF THE TAJ MAHAL 215 The Taj Mahal looking north from the main entrance. Campaigns, when she died at the time of the birth of her fourteenth child. Out of love for her the Emperor devoted the. Years following her death in building a tomb that would be worthy of her. Everything else in his life was made secondary to this supreme expression of his love for the wife of his heart. Another of the structures here which is beautiful beyond description is the Tomb of I'timad-ud-daula, which is a structure expressing love for parents and appreciation of them. It is the mausoleum of Mirza Ghiyas Berg, a Persian, who was grandfather of the lady of the Taj. It was built by Nur Jahan in honor of her father and mother, who when they came from Persia suffered many privations for her sake. Later when she became the queen of the son of the great Akbar she built this lovely structure as a final resting place for their bodies. Thus we have these lovely structures, one expressing the love of husband for wife, the other the love and respect of daughter for parents who had sacrificed for her. _ My first near view of the Taj Mahal was had just at sunset. I went to see it in company with some friends from San Francisco. We sat at sunset and watched the effect on the great dome of the fading light of day, then we remained in the garden till the full moon melted away the sunset shadow on the east and made a softened shadow of its own on the west. As we looked at it from one angle someone would remark that it looked like ivory; again 
 Photo by F. S. Harris Tower of Tomb of IJ'timad-ud-daula Agra. Built of the same material as the Taj Mahal. The white marble of the main structure is from Jaipau, the black marble is from Tibet and the buff from Ceyton. All designs are inlaid in - marble. It would give the feeling that it was made of satin; but most often the subdued light on the rich marble reminded us of soft velvet. I have had to go back and see it again and again, to explore its GLIMPSES OF THE TAJ MAHAL 217 avery detail and to get new vistas of it through trees, or to see its reflection in some of the fountain ponds. This morning I arose early and went to see it in the freshness of the morning. I stood in a rose garden where roses of many hues were in bloom and around which great poinsettia plants made a brilliant fringe which connected stately cypresses with broad-spreading banyan trees. As I stood enchanted at the beauty of the scene, peacocks and small birds of many colors passed before me as if they were wanting to add their beauty to complete the picture. From early morning till long past noon I went aboyt as one intoxicated by the quintessence of pure loveliness which I have not the language to express; it is an intoxication which must be felt to be understood. To the First Mother By Linda S. Fletcher Eve! Brave first-mother of the race of men, Too little honor has been done to thee, Greatest of all the heroines of Earth! Thou, clothed in beauty and the freedom sweet Of immortality, came with thy chosen mate To multiply, replenish and subdue At God's behest. *Twas not the coward's part That made thee first partaker of that fruit Which would within thy fair 'and lovely form The germs of suffering and death implant. No!. Rather 'twas thy courage, noble, high— Thy love for God, thy mother-heart, Prompted the sacrifice! Falling, that Man might be, How much of reverence should we pay to thee! To leave the joys of Eden's garden, fair, To struggle on amid disharmony, In agony the sons of men to bear— Ah, where a greater Mother, Eve, than thee! All hail, thee, then, the Queen of all the Earth, Our hearts o'erflow with gratitude to thee, Whose brave renunciation gave us birth, Helped on our souls to immortality! THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never* Faileth.  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor:: - - - - CraRissA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - -: - - - AuxiceE Louise REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown LyMan Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  Vol. XIV MAY, 1927 No. 5 EDITORIAL Mother A book that is being widely read at the present time is one entitled You Can't Win, by John Black. Mr. Black is one of the boys who, deprived of his mother at a very early age, ran away from home. He fell into a camp of thieves. Stealing was his business for many years. He tells a story of entering the Temple Block with a companion, having in mind stealing the silverware used for the Sacrament service. He was arrested in many states cf the west, broke jail several times and served sentences in state prisons both in Canada and the United States. Finally, after concluding a six year sentence he had to answer another charge. The judge assumed a kindly attitude. Sentencing him to only one year in prison when he expected many years. After this year was ended he settled down to a normal, respectable life and is now working on the staff of a library in California. He writes his story in great detail, the whole point of which is to prove that the criminal plays a losing game from practically every standpoint. We are not particularly interested in this story for an editorial for a Mother's Day issue of the Magazine. What we are interested EDITORIAL 219 in is the fact that the author says in his introduction that if he had had a mother he thinks he never would have "picked up" with the life he followed. He tells how deeply he has been thrilled at all times when other boys and other men have introduced him to their mothers. He says in so many words, "I do not know how it seems to the boy who says to his companion, 'John, this is my mother', but to me, having a mother seems the most worth while thing in life." There is an old adage that good things often come in small parcels. It is equally true that the subtle influences of life are often the most potent. A mother's influence is a subtle influence. It is restraining, comforting, encouraging. And ennobling. In these days when it is practically impossible to pick up a daily paper without reading of crimes of indescribable horror, it is cer- _ tainly comforting to realize what a deterrent to crime the love of a good mother is. There is no work nobler or of greater importance in the world than the work of the mother. The home is the foundation of society, and a mother's place in the home, in the event of a father's death, is always the most important. It may be the most important under other circumstances, but in an ideai home she stands side by side with her husband, making her own feminine contribution that cannot be duplicated by another. In proof of this last statement, we include a poem of this year written by Theodore E. Curtis: "What is home without a mother"— Moulder of our destinies? Read the answer, pensive brother, In this group of similes: It is like a shattered token, Like a sky of after-glows; Like a memory, heart-broken, Like a June without a rose. We trust that at this time when ideas are being turned over and examined from many angles that mothers are not undervaluing their real worth in the home., The Good Book tells us to prove all things and hold fast to that which is good. We think it needs no argument to prove that the mother's influence in the home is a good influence. Let us see to it that we hold fast to it. Mother's Day in Vienna Two years ago we spent Mothers' Day in the City of Vienna with the Church branch there. We call to mind that the hall was tastefully decorated for the occasion with mottos complimentary to motherhood. A pleasing program was arranged which brought s 
 to the fore children who could sing and recite, and who, using song and verse as a medium for the expression of their love and devotion, paid tribute to the mothers of that branch. At the conclusion of the program flowers were presented to the grand-. Mothers and mothers in the audience. It was a day filled with pleasure and one that those of us who saw the countenances of mothers and grandmothers brighten will not soon forget. It was important because it is one of the things that mark a departure from the rule. America has enjoyed much that Vienna has contributed. The "Strauss Waltzes" that have given us the "Blue Danube," such light opera as the "Merry Widow" and the "Chocolate Soldier' had birth in that city. Now comes our turn to make a contribution. Mothers' Day is an American idea, one that we are putting over to the rest of the world and one that the Viennese Saints seemed greatly to appreciate. Charlotte Perkins Gilman Charlotte Perkins Gilman was the guest of Mrs. Susa Young Gates during the third week in March. On March 18, Mrs. Gates entertained for Mrs. Gilman at the home of her daughter,