LEST YE REGRET 235 part, these yearnings had come too late to be satisfied. Her early married life had been so completely engrossed in a tireless effort to keep herself and her financially successful but socially unresponsive husband in the sphere of social recognition that there had been little time for anything else. In more recent years, if occasions for reflection perhaps convinced her that the prize she had won was not worth the price she had paid, she made no murmur, but stoically set herself to the task of vindicating the course she had taken. Now, as she reread Mattie's letter, a gratifying opportunity suggested itself. The Woman's Welfare Club of which she was president, was about to hold a much advertised convention at which Senator Hillard, a brilliant young senator from the West, was to speak on the subject: "Woman and Her Mission." These 'conventions were always colorful and with the added attraction of Senator Hillard as the speaker of the day, its success in the present instance was more than assured. Now if Mattie could only be there to see it all—_Mattie whom she now pictured as being drab, wrinkled, and careworn after years of hardships incident to rearing a family in a little obscure town—it 'would surely be interesting to contrast their positions and achievements. She could imagine her shrinking into the shadows to hide herself from the smartly dressed people of importance who would be in attendance. She could picture her amazement as she saw her old friend, Cora, presiding over stich an assembly and introducing the distinguished Senator Hillard. Surely an experience So flattering to herself would be too good to let slip; therefore, she decided to extend to her friend a special invitation. Going to her desk she carefully penned a brief letter addressing it to the room of the hotel where Mattie was staying. Then she lay back well pleased with he:- self and the world generally. Two days later as Mrs. Van Devener arose before a large assembly to give a short address introducing the speaker, she felt a real thrill of triumph. There was, however, one cloud on the horizon, for as yet she had failed to locate her one-time friend in the audience. Even after Senator Hillard commenced his discourse and the vast audience was paying him the profound compiment of almost breathless attention, she continued to search the sea of faces before her until convinced that such a search was fruitless. Then, and not until then, did she allow her interest to be transferred to the Senator's alluring address. But here again she was disappointed, for his remarks, particularly in closing, seemed to be aimed directly at her. He said emphatically: "The crowning glory of any woman, the glory before which all else dims into insignificance, is motherhood. Our reason, based upon the history of the race as well as the revealed word of God, bears ample testimony of this. The one who cheer fully accepts the responsibility of bringing healthy, intelligent children 236 RELIEF SOCIETY (MAGAZINE into the world, children who are given every advantage of training and education to fit them for lives of dependability and service, has done more toward the perpetuation of the race, the advancement of civilization, and the maintenance. Of our sacred institutions than she could possibly have done in any other way. Surely 'the hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that sways the world.' Our future citizens, from high degree to low estate, are ininfluenced by them more than any other. What a contrast between the joys and hope experienced by the real mother, on the one hand, and the woman who deliberately shirks the duty of motherhood, on the other. True, the latter, like a bubble, may float about brilliantly and self-sufficiently for a time, but in the end she leaves no one behind who is in duty-bound to perpetuate her name or enrich her memory. Not so the other who is blessed with the love and devotion of innocent children and, as they grow older, by their manly and womanly virtues and accomplishments. Her name will be held in sacred trust by her posterity down to the end of time, and the achievements of her children and her children's children will serve as an everlasting benediction to her. I say, God bless the Mothers!": He sat down amid a roar of applause and as it continued he arose again stretching out a hand for silence: '""My dear friends," he said, "you do me an honor that is not justly mine. If I have said anything that has impressed you today it has come as a result of the constant inspiration given me from childhood by one who now sits among you. Friends, I desire to present to you my mother." A hush fell upon ithe listeners as he strode from the stand down the aisle to where a plainly, though neatly and fashionably dressed lady sat, cheeks aglow—eyes glistening with tears. Taking her by the arm he led her to the stand. All eyes were turned upon the proud, happy mother of so fine a son, As she came up the steps she smiled and nodded to Mrs. Van Devener who sat completely nonplused; unable to determine where she had met Mrs. Hillard and why she seemed so familiar. A mighty applause greeted the two as they faced the audience standing side by' side, and with it came the realization to Mrs. Van Devener that this cultured, refined and fashionable convention was rendering distinct honor to her old friend Mattie; one whom she had thought to impress upon this occasion with her own importance. But she did not wonder at it. The unbounded love and pride existing between 'this simple mother and her distinguished son was one of the most beautiful and inspiring sights she had ever seen. "Oh for such a son!" she exclaimed almost audibly as she joined in the applause. Then unable to control her feeling longer, she covered her face with her handkerchief—and wept.