[Utah Gulls in Spring by Richard F. Armknecht]

Utah Gulls in Spring Richard F. Armknecht A regiment of gulls is on parade In single line along the furrow's lip.
They break before the tractor's fusillade And form again behind the gang-plow ship.
They skirmish briefly as the new-turned loam Reveals its flotsam—shining grub and worm.
They dip strong beaks in stubborn, sandy foam And then resume their line, unruffled, firm.
These gulls have never waited by a shore Nor followed vessels out of sight of land.
Their lake is flat and sterile, but the lore Of waves is in their blood.
They understand The ancient curling things.
Long years from now These Utah gulls will. Know, when spring is waking, The harvest to be had behind a plow, With the brown waves breaking. Josef MucHeh Ghoswontel Petals in the Spring Bertha A. Kleinman  I do not mind the years that come and go, That winter strews her silver in my hair; I do not mind the snow, For this 1 know— The promise of the spring is cradled there. I do not mind the autumn's falling leaves, Nor do I pine the summers that are gone; I love the harvest with its ripened sheaves, The friendly rain, The twilight coming on. I do not mind the growing elderly, For every day unfolds some precious thing— With friends like you to walk apace with me, I live in showered petals of the spring.
Page 238

Who Laughs Last
Olive W. Burt
ANNABELL glanced impatiently at the clock. It was getting late and she ought to be home. That was the worst of teaching! Everyone said, "Banker's hours! Getting out of work before four, you have plenty of time to get home before Clay.
You've certainly worked things out right!"
What they didn't know was that very often, like today, she had to stay to see students about their work, had to stay, whether she wanted to or not.
This fellow now, that she was waiting for when she ought to be home starting Clay's dinner, getting Libby ready to meet her daddy
—what did she care about his problems, really? But as vocational consultant she had to seem to care, had to appear interested, but calm, though she was quivering with impatience to get away. Thank heavens there was only one more week of school this year!
It was past five when she finally stood up behind her big desk and said, smiling warmly, "You'll be all right now, Mr. Graham. Now that you've recognized your problem,
I'm sure you can handle it successfully. You're adult and sensible. But, if you have difficulty, don't hesitate to come to me again."
She was thinking, "Please hurry! I've got a hot-headed husband coming home in an hour, and a child to pick up, and some marketing to do!"
As soon as the door closed behind Graham, Annabell grabbed her hat and coat and ran down the hall and across to the parking lot.
She swung her car violently out of its place and headed toward town.
She glanced at her wrist watch and thought impatiently, I'd better not stop for Libby. Mother can just keep her till after dinner, then
Clay and I can drive down and pick her up. And I'll not stop at the market, either. I'll get by with what I've got on hand. It makes
Clay furious when I'm not there— and I don't want him to be furious, or even ruffled, till after I sign my contract for next year. Then
I don't care so much!
That contract and her foolish promise to Clay. When he gave his consent to her teaching this year— taking a position to help the university in its emergency of returned veterans and depleted faculty—he had made her promise she would not sign up for another year without his express consent.
"I don't like it," he said from the first. "Oh, I know they need help, but so do I, and so does
Libby. Libby, most of all. Isn't that right, Mother Lewis?" He'd appealed to her mother.
Her mother had answered reasonably, "You children must figure this out for yourselves. Don't bring me into it." Then she had added as an afterthought, "Of course,
Annabell is the only available person with the right training and Page 239

240 qualifications— and after all, it is what she had planned to do."
"I thought she changed her plans when she married me," Clay had replied bitterly. "Apparently I was wrong. But what about Libby?
There's no decent help ..-.."
"Well, I can help there," Libby's grandmother smiled her most disarming smile.- 'Til be glad to take
Libby during the day till you do find a housekeeper."
A NNABELL grinned wryly, maneuvering the car expertly through the traffic. Her mother had certainly got more than she had bargained for. They'd had girls, of course, from time to time, but not one of them had lasted very long, and then it had been back to mother with Libby. Annabell had rather fancied her mother was getting just a little weary of the arrangement, but since it had been her suggestion, she couldn't very well make a fuss.
Annabell left the car in the driveway, since they'd have to go for Libby later, and dashed into the house.
As she opened the door the fragrance of roast meat and apples cooking with sugar and cinnamon greeted her nostrils, and her hurry subsided into an immense relief.
Mother had brought Libby home and started dinner.
She went into the living room and there sat Clay, his slippered feet high, his paper at a comfortable angle as he scanned the sports page.
"Hello, darling!" Annabell lilted, happy that everything was under control.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1951
Clay dropped his paper, came and took hold of her arms, bending his long body to kiss her.
"Where's Libby?" he asked casually.
Annabell's eyes widened. "Isn't she— didn't Mother bring her?" she asked.
Clay shook his head. "Haven't seen your mother. If she came, it must have been before I got home."
Annabell motioned toward the kitchen. "Then who . . .?"
"Oh," Clay smiled, "that's Martha Dennis, our new housekeeper."
Annabell started toward the kitchen impulsively. Then she stopped and turned to face her husband.
"What is this, Clay?" she asked.
He was suspiciously casual. "The greatest stroke of luck, darling.
Bill Dixon, you know Bill, has been sent to Europe for a year. Couldn't take Martha with him, so he lent her to us. He wants her back again when he returns, of course.
But I grabbed at the chance. You seemed set on signing the contract for next year, and this seemed the solutio n. Libby and_I will have a real home life, anyway—and you, too, darling. Come and meet her, | and you'll see." ~ Annabell tried to collect her thoughts. 'There was something strange about this. Clay had never tried to hire household help before, had always left it up to her. And his whole manner—sort of smug... A cat-that's-swallowed-the-canary sort of look. They went into the kitchen. _ "Martha," Clay said, "this is Mrs. Patrick." _ 3 WHO LAUGHS LAST Annabell stiffened. Clay had introduced her to the servant. Oh, he probably didn't mean anything by it, but in her mother's proper household she had been trained to expect correct introductions. Martha came forward. GHE doesn't look like a servant! Annabell thought swiftly, ing in the refined, almost beautiful face; the neat gray hair, the motherly smile with which Martha greeted her. Annabell felt that "- was staring, but she couldn't help it, and she found that her surprise at this housekeeper was making her tongue stumble over what should have been easy words of greeting. What was wrong? Surely she Should be as glad as anyone that Clay had found such a housekeepett Finally she said cooly, ats Sinise. Room. "Yes, Mrs. Patrick," Martha answered, quietly. Clay interrupted, "Make it six fifteen, Martha. Then I'll have time to dash down and get Libby. I want her to get acquainted with Martha. They're going to be great friends, I know." He didn't wait for an answer or a remonstrance, but hurried out to the car, whistling. He hadn't whistled for months. Annabell went into her bedroom and threw her hat and coat across the bed. She stared at herself in the mirror, at her straight black "We eat and turned to leave the hair in its dignified coil at the nape © of her neck; at her hazel-flecked eyes and her straight, set chin. Takkitchen, Libby 241
Why, I look like. A sour old woman, she thought bitterly, and then wondered why this idea had crossed her mind. "'Maybe it's because that—that woman looks so comfortable!" she muttered. "But in my job you can't look motherly.
Everyone would weep on your shoulder. You have to look efficient; you have to inspire confidence and self respect. You can't baby grown men." "Or can you?" a tiny voice seemed to whisper. Well, if Clay wanted mothering, he could have it, she decided crossly.. She pulled the pins furiously from her hair and brushed the thick, dark curls back loosely, watching the mirror for a miracle.
Annabell did not go out until she heard Clay and Libby come noisily in. As she stepped into the hall she. Saw them go into the crowing from her Daddy's Shoulder, where she rode triumphantly. "Martha!"
Clay cried. "Here's Libby—here's the little queen herself!" "Hello, Libby!" Martha's voice was cheerful and friendly. "I've made cinnamon apples for you.
Your daddy said they're your favorite!"' Annabell couldn't help thinking, Well, how could I make cinnamon apples when I don't get home till five and after!
Libby was crowing, "Pretty, pretty Martha!' and all three were laughing. "She'll be bossing you, Martha, if you don't watch out," Clay chuckled. "She can boss with a vel- 242 \ vet hand, but it's bossing, just the same. And with her mother away, she'll be the one you'll be trying to please." Oh, yeah?
Annabell thought Slangily. She'd better please me, too.
Libby bossing, indeed! How foolish could Clay be? JHEN she met her husband and daughter in the dining room, the color in her cheeks was not due to rouge. The dinner was good, but Annabell couldn't eat it. Clay's appetite, on the other hand, was excellent, as were his humor and wit.
Annabell was reminded of the way Clay showed off when they had important guests to dinner, and since he never displayed this charm for her alone—not for nearly a year, anyway—it gave to the presence of the new housekeeper a significance it didn't merit. Or did it? When Libby was ready for bed she cried suddenly, "Want to kiss Martha good night!
Want to kiss Martha good night." She eluded Annabell's hands and ran down the hall shrieking, "Martha! Martha!"
Annabell caught her lower lip between her teeth. How stupid to be jealous of a stranger! She thought. Then, I'm not jealous! I'm just bewildered.
Clay was saying casually, "She's the funniest child to take to certain people. I suppose it's because she's had so many people take care of her. She doesn't have a chance to form the silly inhibitions that make other children cling to one person." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Oh, Clay, that's cruel!
Annabell thought, and turned her face swiftly away so that he might not see her hurt. It was a terrible evening, with Clay making frequent trips kitchenward for ice water or a snack or merely to see whether the screen was fastened.
Every time he went, Annabell found herself tensed into listening to the cheery remarks that passed between him and the busy housekeeper. Her head was aching when she went to bed, but she couldn't sleep. She lay there thinking of the evening and trying to lay her finger on just what had disturbed her so. It wasn't anything in Martha, herself, she had to admit. The woman had been perfect in her attitude.
Annabell sighed. No, it was in Clay and Libby. It was their evident joy in the new housekeeper, their turning to her all the time, almost as if Annabell were not there. When Annabell awoke the next — morning, she found that Clay. Had already risen. She started to dress, and then remembered that she didn't have to hurry quite so fast— she didn't have to rush a breakfast on the table, get clothes onto Libby, and dash away. It was with a feeling of relief that she smelled the bacon frying while she dressed. But the relief vanished when she went into the kitchen and found Libby already at the table, bright and sweet in her red-checked pinafore. Martha's cheerful good morning did nothing _ to make Annabell happier.
Clay came into the kitchen with a handful of roses which he handed to WHO LAUGHS LAST ~ Martha as he came to give Annabell his: morning kiss. "This is something like it!" he beamed, taking the table, charmingly set with a low bowl of spring flowers in the center, and sliced oranges arranged in a cherry-topped circle on each blue plate. "Home was never like this," he added unnecessarily. "My, you are all up early!"
Annabell remarked tartly. "Oh," Clay answered, "I knew Martha would have a good breakfast for us, so I worked in the garden, so I could do it justice." "Well, darling!" she put her arms about Libby, "you look very nice this morning. All ready to go to grandmother's?" HE had made up her mind, and Clay might as well know it. "Daddy says I can stay here with Martha," Libby answered, over a mouthful of buttered toast. "Martha is going to make sugar cookies." "But, darling, what will Grandmother think?" Before Libby could answer the phone rang, and Annabell turned to take the receiver from the cradle. It was her mother. "Oh, Annabell, darling!" she crooned, "Clay told me about your wonderful luck. Isn't it fortunate? And I'm so glad." "But, Mother!"
Annabell interrupted determinedly, "it isn't at all demmite. Imean." "Oh, yes it is, dear.
Clay told me all the details. I guess you were so relieved you didn't bother—and it came at such a fortunate moment. I was going to tell you last night when you picked up Libby, only you didn't. 243
But I've been named to the library board—and I've got a great deal of work to do. I don't know what you'd have done if Clay hadn't." "Mother!"
Annabell forced her voice into the stream of words. "Mother, do you mean you can't take Libby today?" "Not today or for some time, I'm afraid, dear. You see, it's the library board. We've got to." "Sorry, Mother, I can't talk now. I'm coming down on my way to school.
Tell me then." She cradled the receiver and rose from the © table. She picked Libby up from her half-finished meal, wiped her mouth on her napkin, handed her another piece of toast, and carried her out to the car.
Clay came to the door. "What's the idea?" he' cried. "Why not leave Libby here?
Martha doesn't mind, and it's better for the child."
That last phrase settled it.
Annabell wasn't going to leave Libby there to be taken in completely by Martha's "motherliness." Phooey! She thought. Mother's _ spoiled Libby badly enough, but then she is her grandmother, and that's what grandmothers are for. But a housekeeper, beaming on the child like that, doing everything to please her! The child would be ruined in no time. As Annabell drove furiously along, her analytical mind insisted on checking over her reasons for her unreasonable behavior.
Smiling a little ruefully, she had to admit that it wasn't so much fear of Libby's being spoiled as it was fear that Martha, a mere servant, would 244 swiftly replace Annabell in the child's affection. She hadn't really worried about that with her mother, because her mother was like Annabell, calm and efficient, and not given to spoiling anyone. "Annabell, didn't you~ understand me?" her mother asked, showing her exasperation and annoyance when she saw her daughter and grandchild. "Of course I understood you, Mother. But you didn't understand me. I don't know how to explain it, but I know that woman isn't a regular housekeeper. Oh, maybe she kept house for Bill Dixon—but I'll bet she was his aunt, or something. And look how spoiled Bill was!
Have everything just so. Mother, she's the kind of person that men and children just adore." "Well, what's wrong about being that kind of woman, Annabell? Surely," her mother's eyes crinkled at the corners, "you're not jealous?
Clay said she was an elderly person." "Oh, that's not it," Annabell retorted, "I'm not jealous of her exactly. But if you'd seen how Clay and Libby looked at her, as if she were—were—well, they don't look at me like that!" she ended lamely, almost in tears. "No?" her mother asked, "do you give them reason to, Annabell? You know I've found that people are like mirrors—remember that silly story you used to read tha t pointed that moral very clearly? But it's true, nevertheless. If you took time to look at Clay and Libby as if they were something special— took time to spoil them— maybe . . . ."
"I don't have time—" Annabell began, and then stopped. "Well,
Mother, can't you help me out just once more— can't you keep Libby just one more day?"
OER mother shook her head. "I don't see how, darling. When
Clay told me you had such a treasure of a housekeeper I called up
Mrs. Wilson and Lou Adams and told them I'd meet them at ten.
I'll have to rush as it is." She looked impatiently at the clock.
"Okay," Annabell said. "It's all right. Thanks for tending her so much."
She was holding Libby by the hand when she entered the president's office.
"I'm sorry, Miss Gleason," she told the president's secretary. "I can't be in my office today. Nor at all this next week. It will be a little inconvenient, I guess, but if you'll just post a notice that appointments will have to be kept at my home— I believe we can manage since there is just a week left."
Miss Gleason's eyebrows were high.
"He will ask me for the reason,
Mrs. Patrick."
"A personal emergency," Annabell answered shortly. "Oh, and give him this, please." She handed the girl a long envelope and turned to go.
"Your contract!" Miss Gleason beamed again. "You'll be with us next year, then?"
"No," Annabell said, "'it isn'tsigned."
She went out of the door and drove home.

WHO LAUGHS LAST 245
Martha was singing in the kitch- "Yes, she does, Mommy. Martha en. Annabell stood and looked at and Daddy and Granny had a parher a moment. Then she said, ty. I woke up and came downmaking her voice as calm as pos- stairs and they gave me ice cream." sible, "I'm sorry, Martha, but I Annabell stared at her daughter, won't be needing you any longer. "Are you sure, darling? When did
If you will tell me what Mr. Pat- they have the party?" rick agreed- to pay you, I will give "Last day when I was at Granyou a check for two weeks pay and ny's." you may go." Anger flowed through Annabell.
Martha looked up, surprised, but She had been right. Martha was no cool. "Mr. Patrick hired me, Mrs. ordinary housekeeper. They had Patrick," she said. "I'm afraid I made it up between them— that was can't leave without his consent." why she was all sweetness and "Oh, yes you can!" Annabell's light! Of course no housekeeper voice was really calm now. "You would put herself out like that! can complain to Mr. Patrick if you Her mother and Clay had schemed wish, but I simply won't need you. this just because they didn't want
There's not enough work here to her to teach; her mother didn't want require a maid. A taxi will be here to be tied down with Libby any for you in half an hour." m0re. How childish of them! Why hadn't they simply told her? No,
TT was as easy as that. When they had gone into this childish
Martha was gone, Annabell took plot and she had let them get by off her school dress and slipped in- with it! to a red and white pinafore just Well, it wasn't too late— she like Libby's. She pulled the pins could get back her contract and from her hair and tied her dark sign it. She could .... curls back with a red ribbon. But it might have been real, she
"So you want sugar cookies, thought in panic again. I was more darling?" she asked. "Do you want scared than I dared admit, even to to help Mommy make them?" myself— Oh, Clay, Clay! I couldn't
"Oh, Mommy! Mommy!" Libby bear it for you and Libby to grow danced up and down. "Can I? Can away from me!
I?" She looked at Libby, busily cut-
"Of course, pet. Here, pull up ting stars from a piece of smudgy a chair and I'll show you, And then dough. Suddenly Annabell laughed we'll make some strawberry tarts and caught her daughter close, kissfor daddy. He loves them." ing the flour-daubed cheeks.
They were cutting funny shapes "I'm glad!" she cried, "glad it from the soft dough when Libby was a frame-up! I'll never let them asked, "Where's Martha? Did she know I found out!" go back to Granny's?" Libby leaned against her mother
"No, pet. Martha doesn't know and laughed, too.
Granny," Annabell answered ab- "I'm glad!" she echoed. "I'm sently. glad, too, Mommy!"

44
Now Is the Time'
Carol Read Flake
THE elaborate cutwork design on the pillow case blurred before Martha Lane's eyes and she lowered the hoops to her lap, blinking back the tears that had flowed too freely all day to be easily checked now in her husband's presence. Not that he was apt to notice! Half hidden by the evening paper, Harvey sprawled comfortably in the big chair, his long legs crossed on the ottoman, completely oblivious of his wife's unhappiness. Resentment stirred in her, deepening the hurt, the disappointment that had lain like a stone on her heart all this bright spring day.
May second, their daughter's wedding day. Tall, vivacious Dianne had been married that morning in the Idaho Falls Temple to Arthur
Rowell. They had been accompanied by the groom's parents, but not by the bride's. Martha bit her lip and resolutely returned to her needlework.

"Well, Mother dear," Harvey exclaimed on the end of a noisy yawn, as he folded the paper, "how does it seem to have the first of our flock leave the nest?" He watched as she deftly brought the thread around and drew the needle through the cloth. "Still on those pillow slips of Dianne's?"

Martha pursed her lips and made no reply. How could he be so insensitive to her mood? How could he sit there, relaxed and complacent, feeling no twinge of conscience?

Reaching up, he switched off the lamp and settled back in his chair with another prodigious yawn. "Lovely warm evening for this time of year. Hope it's this nice in the Park. The kids'll have a great time. When'd you say they're coming home?"

"Saturday," she answered shortly. "Arthur has to be on the job Monday morning."

"Fine steady boy, that Art. Oh, say, I ran into Bishop Jenkins this morning. He was all praise for our Dianne; and said we'd done a splendid job rearing her. I told him, by jing, it wasn't any of my doings, that all the credit went to her mother. And you know what he said? He said, 'Harv, your wife is one of the finest, most faithful women in the ward.'"

Martha turned quickly for the floss that lay on the davenport, although her needle was full. She thought with something near hysteria, Why can't he stop? Why doesn't he just go on to bed and leave me alone?

"You seem sorta quiet tonight, Mother," he observed after a moment. "I'd think you'd be real happy, having your oldest girl married to a fine young fellow, and in the temple the way you've always wanted for her."

And the way I've always wanted for myself, she thought bitterly. But there was no point in mentioning that. Not after twenty-two years.

"Phyllis out tonight?" He had risen and gone to peer out the screen door.

"No, she's in bed." Martha's gray eyes clouded at thought of their sixteen-year-old. "We may not receive congratulations on Phyllis," she remarked quietly.

Her husband turned. "Phyllis? Oh, she's all right. Just in that mixed-up adolescent age."

"She wasn't very mixed-up in her scorn and ridicule of Dianne for not having a smart church wedding like Amy Hanford. She says there'll be none of this for her."

Harvey's laugh rang out. "That sounds like her, little monkey. She has a rebellious streak, but you can take it out of her."

"I?" she queried. "Is it my exclusive job to rear this family? And the boys," she went on, her voice rising, "you know how they are beginning to balk at going to Primary—even Sunday School. And Jimmy will be twelve next month." She stopped to let that sink in.

HARVEY was back in his chair, but he no longer looked comfortable. "I know it's a problem, Martha. I've left these things to you because—well, I don't set much of an example in the way of attendance and such." He leaned forward, elbows on knees, and studied his clasped hands thoughtfully. "I don't know—I guess I got started off wrong, with my dad so careless-like. And then my work . . . ." His voice trailed off.

Martha glanced up, needle poised. "Harvey Lane, you can't use your work as an excuse any longer. You've been off the road and right here in the home office for almost a year. Besides, lots of men who travel find time for Church activity."

A car door slammed nearby and their eyes met questioningly. There was the sound of voices and footsteps on the walk. Martha laid aside her work and went to the door.

"Why, Kate Rowell," she cried eagerly, holding the door wide. "And Leslie. I didn't dream you were coming back today."

"I told Les I couldn't relax any place but home. Oh, what a day!" Kate laughed, letting her shoulders droop and her arms dangle at her side to show how weary she was.

"Leslie, old man!" Harvey strode forward to shake hands with her husband. "What does this make us — brothers-in-law? Come in, come in and tell us all about it."

"This makes fathers-in-law of us, Harry," Leslie smiled his warm, friendly smile as he laid an arm across Harvey's shoulder. "All I can say is you should have been there, you and Martha. It would have made you glow all over to see what a beautiful bride your Dianne made. Our Dianne," he corrected, his smile broadening. "And, Martha, I've never seen her when she looked more like you."

"Did she?" Martha flushed, her eyes glistening. "Oh, I wanted to be there. You'll never know. Kate, tell me," she hurried on in a cascade of words, "was everything all right? Did she seem very flustered?"

Kate threw up her hands in protest. "Wait, Martha—slow down," she laughed. "Sit down here by me and I'll tell you all about it. Oh, I wish you could have seen your daughter." She closed her eyes