[Two Sunsets by Juliaetta B. Jensen]

Two Sunsets Juliaetta B. Jensen THE CRUCIFIXION I saw a sunset from my hill So dark and drear, foreboding, All my heart with fear was still, Black clouds frowning from beneath, above, 'Shut out all hope of peace and love, One thin, red streak as if of blood, _ Was all I saw in that dull, dark, western sky, ' One moment, and even that was gone. My path blacked out, and with a bitter cry, I fell upon the shaking earth, and wept alone. THE RESURRECTION The next night, I saw another sunset From my hill, so different My heart was still, and lifted up With joy and hope and peace. It was as if some artist from on high Had dipped his brush into the rainbow dew And painted all the western sky With pastel colors of every hue; That shouted to the heavens about, above, Of One who gave his all for love That you and I might never die. For the Strength of the Hills
Chapter 3
Mabel Haimei
Synopsis: Camilla Fen ton, an orphan from California, is the new schoolteacher in Crandall, Idaho. She becomes interested in Stanley Rodgers, a young farmer.
During the first big snowstorm Camilla walks home with one of her students and is caught in a blizzard. Stanley rescues her. That night he tells her that they always keep the red-headed schoolteachers in Crandall.
CAMILLA had written blithely to her aunt that she was marrying Stan as soon as school was out, and that, because of his work, they would have to wait until winter to come down to California. Then they would come down for a nice, long visit. She ended by saying, "You'll be simply crazy about Stan. Everyone is."
She really believed that it was so.
Not even Aunt Lillian, she thought, could be proof against his charm.
Her aunt replied with a note of congratulations and wishes for her happiness, which Camilla was sure she had tried very hard to write sincerely, even if she had failed.
She also sent a set of sterling silver, which Stan remarked might come in handy to pawn if the crops failed.
'Indeed we won't pawn it," she retorted. "We're going to have things as nice in our home as if it were located on Malibu Beach, and there'll be much nicer people living in it," she ended, smiling.
After their marriage they spent a week at Sun Valley, where it was rather quiet because of being in between seasons, and where they rode horseback, swam in the lovely pool, took long hikes over the hills, and learned with new surprise each day how completely in love they were.
"It's been a wonderful week," said Camilla, with a sigh, as she sat back in the car to begin the ride home. "Imagine! my one and only honeymoon, and it's ended."
"Well, I should hope so," replied her new husband. "I mean your one and only honeymoon. You don't really think it's ended, do you?"
"Of course not," she agreed snuggling down against his shoulder.
"Our marriage is really going to be different. I know that a million other girls have said that, but not one of them married you."
When, at the end of the ride, they drove up to the farm that Stan had bought— "or rather made a down payment on the chicken coops," as he put it, she looked at the big, ugly house that she had never been inside of, and thanked her stars that she was indeed very much in love.
"Gay old castle, isn't it?" asked
Stan lightly, as if reading her thoughts. "But we can do something with it. How about painting it pink? Don't they do that in California?"
"Sometimes, but this house isn't quite the type," grinned Camilla.
"But it would look rather nice painted white, with red roof and shutters."
Page 263

264
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— APRIL 1951
"Okay, Mrs. Rodgers. We'll start in the morning. Right now we'd best see where Mom has put our doodads and if Mickey has let the stock starve to death/'
The "doodads" were their wedding gifts, which his folks had promised to bring over and place in the house. Camilla hoped wildly that, the inside would be better than the out but, as she stood in the front room after Stan had gallantly carried her in, she had all she could do to keep back her dismay.
The ceilings were high, the woodwork plentiful and old-fashioned.
The paper on the walls a nondescript brown. The only redeeming feature was a huge fireplace, with really good, simple lines.
"Did anyone ever live here— with walls looking like this?" she asked.
"Sure. Lived, loved, and probably liked them this way," he answered airily. "How about making the inside pink, if you won't consider it for the outside?"
He went back to the car for their bags, and Camilla slumped down onto the bumpy gray sofa that had come with the place.
"Patience, my girl," she said against her rising dismay. "You can change all this. You can even have big windows cut to open up a view of the mountains."
CHE got up and walked over to the east window. "There is nothing wrong here that I can't change," she said to the distant peaks. "I can be strong, too."
Having thrown out her challenge, she turned and went into the bedroom to change to a house dress.
She supposed that Stan was out looking over the place to see how things had fared under his young brother, so she went on into the kitchen to prepare supper.
Here was a fresh shock.