[Garden Riches by Jeanette P. Parry]

garden space, And riches for my tall, blue vase. Miracle Marian Schroder Crothers He plowed the land; The warm earth lay in brown furrows In suppliant waiting.
From work-worn hands he scattered Back into the ground The seeds from last year's crop.
Then patiently, he waited for The miracle of growth again.
Tleals of Our Sime Sara Mills In this year of 1951 housewives are particularly interested in preparing thrifty, attractive, and nutritious meals. The following menus are relatively inexpensive, they have an appetizing appearance, and provide vitamins, minerals, and calories. MENU ONE Spanish beans Apple pie or fresh fruit and cheese Tossed green salad with avocado Hot chocolate or fruit punch Hot corn bread or French bread This menu is an inspired one for an outdoor gathering of friends or family, and it tastes just as good indoors any season. SPANISH BEANS c. Red kidney beans 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 small ham hock 2 small cans tomato hot sauce 2 onions sliced 2-3 tsp.
Chili powder 1 large bell pepper | salt to taste Wash the beans and soak them overnight in two quarts of warm water.
Heat in the same water until the water boils.
Drain off the water and add all the other ingredients, with enough fresh water for simmering. Let simmer gently for several hours until the beans are very tender.
Shortly before the beans are to be served, remove the ham hock and any surface fat.
Shred the ham and return it to the beans. For variation, place the beans in a casserole, sprinkle with your favorite grated cheese, and place in the oven until the cheese bubbles. MENU TWO Chicken tamale Tossed green salad Fresh summer squash or other — Dinner rolls green vegetable _ Fresh fruit compote This recipe came to me from a farm wife. It will serve a goodly number and is particularly appropriate for a potluck supper. If children are to be served, the amount of red pepper and chili powder should be reduced CHICKEN TAMALE 1 large chicken, cooked until tender 1 tbsp.
Chili powder 1 quart chicken broth, 1 tbsp. Butter 1 c.
Corn meal salt to taste Add the corm meal, chili powder, butter, and salt to the broth and steam in a double boiler about one hour.
While this mixture is steaming proceed with the sauce. SAUCE FOR CHICKEN TAMALE % c.
Butter or cooking oil 1 tbsp.
Chili powder 1 onion, sliced thin, "A tsp.
Cayenne pepper 2 cloves garlic 1 small can sliced, ripe olives % c. Flour 4 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 1 can tomatoes (size 2% ) 1 can com: