Relief Society _- Magazine Volume 53 Number § MAY 1966 _—_ Li <> * Marilyn McMeen Miller One grasps more than a century In this grove. The trees are tall, for the years have sung ages un has tumbled down measures of gold on a spring day e—the Prophet boy his: knees, far from the desert confusion: quench a fervent ~ SOme* spot of quiet sun In St a world-heart mat Int is grove. If there is peace, it x.. All-nourishing essence of | From thi Tall, > i i. In the _. A Ss woot pranks. F grace, ty ioe". - - * > - at. E —- eS oir wi" "The Cover: j Coral Morning off Mount Olympus, Utah; arenc' f Dorothy J. Roberts Color by Deseret Ne "Grove, ewafork ourtes: Church Info Service | have been reading our wonderful Magazine for seventeen years, and love every issue. Now | am a ward representative and take great pleasure in ordering and placing the Magazine in as many homes as possible. | so much enjoyed reading the conference address by President Belle S. Spafford, ''The Blessings of Experience'' (November 1965); and ''Teaching the Gospel,'' by President Joseph Fielding Smith (January 1966). These addresses are so uplifting to us all in these troubled times. Margaret L. Dickinson Oroville,. California Every time | pick up a copy of our choice Magazine and read the beautiful and wholesome contents, | thank God for my heritage. What a blessing to be able to read, to have at my fingertips words of comfort, inspiration, strength, and encouragement. But this is not all. The short stories and poems feed that part of my soul which yearns for expression and understanding. | am thankful for the Magazine. | am_= in love with it. Phillis L. Grayson. Hunter, Utah | am thankful to have had the pleasure of receiving The Relief Society Magazine, which has been ordered as a gift to me three times by the mother of the missionary who converted and baptized me four and a half years ago. The Magazine has been a great help to me in many ways, in my callings as literature class leader, first counselor, and secretary-treasurer in our branch. The Magazine has helped me to understand and live the gospel better. It has helped me to read and speak English. It thrilled me when | saw a picture from Switzerland on the cover and one inside the Magazine. Margrit Stauffer Kuhn Baldwin Park, California (formerly of Solothurn, Switzerland) 322 | must teil you how much | appreci the Magazine, especially now that are 7,000 miles away from home, e our only contact with the Church is mail. There are three families of us and since the other two sisters we have invited them to join with me t Sunday evenings a month to study Relief Society lessons. It might s difficult for Statesiders to unders how we hunger for the gospel, and have been on Saipan only t months. My husband reads The C dren's Friend from cover to cover, well as The Relief Society Maga Reading Dorothy Roberts' poem " ple Spires'' in the February Mage made me come into the bedroom a lock the door so our maid wouldn't me cry. It still remains a thrill to something | have written published. Love Mary Scopes' illustrations. Janet E Mariana Isla | would like to express my apprecie for The Relief Society Magazine. | just finished reading the Dece Magazine (with lessons for Ma from cover to cover. | have been te ing school for the past eight ye and so have been unable to a Relief Society meetings, but meetings are being held for the ing sisters on Sunday morning, the Priesthood meetings are bh held. Eloise Mc Blackfoot, Id | had occasion to lend four issues The Relief Society Magazine to soi nonmember friends. The man emergency surgery, and | thought wife would like something to while she waited. Both the husb and the wife commented on the derful stories, poems, color pict and how the lesson material had g them a new insight concerning Le day Saint beliefs. ' Mrs. Dorothy Eri Mt. Carroll, Ili the Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 May 1966 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 324 Three Women Celestia J. Taylor 329 Literary Contest Announcements' 1966 338 Resembling Mother Pearle M. Olsen 341 Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother Leah Green 342 A Letter: To Daughter From Mother Lydia Parker 374 Magazine Honor Roll for 1965 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 332 The Old Stove Lael J. Littke 346 Washday Blues Frances C. Yost 366 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 5 Margery S. Stewart General Features 322 343 344 387 400 From Near and Far Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Young Women in Relief Society Louise W. Madsen Notes From 'the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 351 353 356 358 360 363 364 365 386 Freezer Time Means Free Time Joyce B. Bailey Look for the Small Clues Kaye T. Roberts Bulletin June F. Krambule Much of Worth—The Relief Society Magazine Mabel L. Anderson Cousins Genevieve Van Wagenen A Pod Full of Peas Helen Hinckley Jones Spring Dream Salad Dressing Ida A. Isaacson Ismilda England—Expert With Crochet Hook and Quilting Needle Time of Farewell Leora Larsen Lesson Department 394 Work Meeting—Clothing Care Adds to Wear Margaret P. Childs Poetry 321 Place of Prayer Marilyn McMeen Miller Memories, Catherine B. Bowles, 328; My Neighbor, Dorothy J. Roberts, 331; A Garden, Vera R. Holden, 331; Claim for Mercy, Christie Lund Coles, 337; Journal of Marriage, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 339; Susquehanna River Valley, Alice Morrey Bailey, 340; The Matchless Role, Bertha A. Kleinman, 349; Meadow Flowers, Norma A. Wrathall, 350; Afterglow, Zara Sabin, 352; Unto Others, Maude O. Cook, 355; To One Away, Enola Chamberlin, 359; Memories in May, Annie Atkin Tanner, 373; Blossomtime, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 386; From the Sea to the Shell, Bernice Ames, 396; Seasonal, Gayla Ann Larsen, 397; SisterTalk, Rowena Jensen Bills, 397; Sunlit Canyon, Ethel Jacobson, 398. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Three Women @ Fortunate is the child who is reared under the guidance of a good mother; doubly fortunate is one who also comes under the influence of a noble grandmother; but even more blessed is one who has the wise guidance of a second loving, wonderful grandmother. The realization that my life has been thus blessed has filled me with a deep sense of responsibility for a debt that can never be fully paid. I acknowledge this debt in gratitude and humility and with a feeling of joy and pride in the heritage which is responsible for it. In retrospect, the measure of the influence of my mother and my two grandmothers upon my life has been infinite. Each one has exerted particular forces in certain individual ways which have worked to my benefit. A brief, but candid, glimpse into the lives of each of the three may reveal something of the meaning and depth of the debt which each of us, as women, owes to those who have nurtured us and en- 324 Celestia J. Taylor Membe General Board dowed us with the true virtues 0 womanhood. In some ways, in the memorie of my very early childhood, m Grandmother Nash—"Grandma" always to me—stands out eve more vividly than does my mother. I can explain this perhaps best by saying that becau Mother was always there to be with and to come home to, I mus have just taken her for granted; though I know now that without her through all my life, I would have been lost. In order to place my Grandmother Nash in a proper perspective, it is necessary that I give some of the essential facts of her life as they were written down by her eldest daughter: In Nashville, Tennessee, in the year 1842, Rhoda Young McNicol was born to Alexander and Mary Ann Vance McNicol, the youngest child of four. She was reared in an environment almost inconceivable to her posterity —amid an ease of living and luxurious surroundings.... There was no memory of the father who died during the infancy of thi child, and the mother and her family of four small girls were taken to the home of the dear Grandfather, Lewis Vance, a wealthy plantation owner, where they remained a number of years. Then the gospel found them, and the entire family was converted to Mormonism. Lewis Vance sold his beautiful plantation. They said goodbye to the old home and started westward to join the saints. The journey was suspended at Council Bluffs, and the winter brought the terrible scourge of cholera among the travelers, taking a toll of two from this party. Lewis Vance and a daughter succumbed to the disease, and were left by the wayside. In 1852, the survivors resumed the long trek westward. Rhoda, the youngest, was too small to walk the entire distance and was permitted to take turns riding on the back of the family cow at the rear of the company, which was commanded by Captain John Tidwell, who led his band of faithful followers into the beautiful valley of the Great Salt Lake, in 1852. Later, the family moved to Alpine, Utah County, then known as Mountainville, where they made a permanent residence. On September 23, 1863, Rhoda was married to Ephraim Nash and a year later they received their endowments and were sealed in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. I can hardly think of Grandma Nash without thinking of her home, which she loved so dearly. It was a brick structure of typical Victorian style, three stories high, and comprising sixteen rooms all furnished richly and completely with every comfort and luxury which was available at that time. How I loved that house of Grandma's. I knew every corner of it more intimately than I knew our own Alpine home. Grandma was an immaculate housekeeper; there was order not only in every room in her house but also on every shelf and in every drawer. It seems to me THREE WOMEN now, as I look back in nostalgic remembrance, that her home was a haven of perfection and peace. This, I know, is partly a romantic projection growing out of my childhood impressions, but, nevertheless, a very real one to me. Something I can never forget was her sitting room just off her bedroom, where she did her handwork. A glimpse into the drawers of her cabinets revealed rows and rows of variegated assortments of thread, embroidery floss, and yarn, all arranged in graduated color schemes from the palest tints to the deepest hues. To me, as a child, they were a fascinating sight. And her needlework was something to see. Her beautiful handmade quilts, rugs, and afghans; her exquisite hand embroidery; her peerless knitting and crocheting; her intricate patterns of featherstitching and piecework; her handloomed carpets and fabrics—all these and more testified of her talent as an artist in these skills. Although Grandma was far more than domestic in her tastes and inclinations, in her kitchen she was perfection itself. I can still see her drawing from the oven a batch of fragrant bread or a pan of yeast biscuits, high and incredibly light; or see her rolling out the dough for her pies which, except for those my mother baked from the same recipe and method, have never been equaled in my experience. Her wonderful breads, pies, and cakes often found their way into the homes of her neighbors and friends in need. Hardly a day went by that did not see her taking something to someone. IT never saw her at work in her 325 MAY 1966 kitchen when she was not singing; in fact, I can hardly think of her without hearing her singing. Sometimes a note of sadness emanated from her songs, but whatever her mood, she expressed it in some kind of singing. Sometimes she merely hummed, but always I remember her with music in her heart. She knew from memory and dearly loved all the favorite Church hymns, and it was from hearing her sing them that-I learned most of them myself. Her voice had a low, vibrant quality that had a penetrating effect upon my senses. Whenever I hear the words of King Lear in Shakespeare's great tragedy, ""Her voice was ever soft, /Gentle, and low—-; an excellent thing in woman," I always think of my Grandmother Nash. I think it must have been her gift of song which lent a buoyancy to her spirit to lift it up in spite of sorrows which could easily have destroyed a less indomitable character. Not from her did I hear the story of the loss of five beautiful children—four daughters and one son—within the space of six months from diphtheria. And not from her did I know that the sorrow was hers of having a young, talented, handsome son turn to the enticements of drink and literally destroy himself. These and many other trials seemed to have made her the stronger in the bearing of them. There was never any wavering in her faith. She was possessed of a strong, personal testimony which kept her close to the Church and true to its principles as long as she lived. My association with my Grandmother Johnson was not so in- 326 timate, nor did it extend over so long a period as with my Grandmother Nash, but what time I did spend with her was no less rewarding in many ways. I think that probably no two women were less alike than they were, and yet, each in her own way, was endowed with the highest qualities of intellect and character. I never thought to compare them. I loved them both, and they loved each other. Both lived at varying times in our home, and several times they were there together, and at such times their sincere affection and respect for each other were evident. According to family records: Susan Adeline Holman was the fifth child of James Sawyer and Naomi Roxannia LeBaron Holman. She was born on the 7th of October, 1841, at Nauvoo, Illinois. Her parents were early-day members of the Church. They were living in Nauvoo when the Prophet was martyred, and to escape further trouble moved to Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, where the father stayed long enough to... Get his family settled, and then left his wife and small children there in the summer of 1847 as he started out with a herd of sheep, the first to cross the plains and reach Salt Lake. He walked the entire way, assisted only by a small boy who rode a horse. In the summer of 1848... Susan's mother prepared to start with the Saints to cross the plains, with a thirteen-year-old son to drive their three yoke of cattle. Susan was seven years old that summer. Her father came to meet them and they arrived in Salt Lake in October, safe and well, despite the many hardships. Then came the real test for Susan as she and her young brother herded their father's sheep over the hills in their bare feet, glad to have a supper of sego roots when they got home. She never forgot seeing her father go off to work to be gone all day with only a cup of milk to do him until he returned at night; and seeing her mother treading up and down on her spinning wheel all day and often into the night with tears streaming down her face. About the year 1850, Susan's father.. Joined his interests to those of Benjamin Franklyn Johnson... A [former] close friend and intimate associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the beginning of a close association between the Holman and Johnson families.... Susan was married to Benjamin Johnson. Their son was my father. I well remember Grandmother Johnson—her sweetness, her gentleness; I remember her insatiable curiosity about life and her zest for it. I remember her quaint but penetrating sense of humor, which made every association with her a time of fun. I never knew her in her own home, but I do know that she always brought much pleasure to ours. She was an avid genealogist, and much of her time when she was in Utah was spent doing work in the Salt Lake Temple. A feeling of warmth and tenderness wells up in me whenever I think of my dear, sweet Grandma Johnson. How can I begin to describe my mother, Deseret (Dessie) Nash Johnson— the dearest to me of these three women who have played so great a part in my life? Though she has been gone from us for over seven years, the memory of her is so strongly imprinted upon my heart and mind that I feel her presence in a very real sense. The passing years, somehow, cannot diminish the vibrance of her spirit. Maybe because of this very fact, it is difficult for me to put her into words —to interpret for others the real person that she was. That realness began and ended in the indomitable but simple THREE WOMEN faith which pervaded every part of her life. She loved her Heavenly Father and she communed with him. Whenever she wanted something, she prayed for it, and accepted the answer—her implicit faith was as uncomplicated as that. She loved the Presidents of the Church, in turn, as she knew them, and she evidenced her devotion by her continuous activity in the various organizations of the Church from her early childhood to the end of her life. She served her community almost as well as she did her Church, but never to the detriment of her family. My mother was a wonderful cook. I never tasted anything in my life that she fixed for us that I didn't like. Nothing in my ex- | perience has diminished my belief that she was the best cook in the world. My mother was also an excellent seamstress. She made nearly everything that my sisters and I wore, and we always felt that we were as well-dressed as any of our friends. Her taste, her originality, her ability to achieve the special effect we wanted, made us dissatisfied with anything else. Her fine traits of character— including her complete honesty, her courage in meeting any problem or adverse situation, her unconcern for wordly pursuits or social prestige, except where she could be of service to her friends and her community, her unpretentiousness, her dislike for sham, pretense or any pettiness—where these might be abstract generalities in some, in her they were concrete and genuine qualities. She had a great love for the out-of-doors, and she made a a7 MAY 1966 garden spot wherever she made her home. Even in her late seventies, she spent many hours planting and transplanting her choice shrubs and flowers. Her houseplants she cherished all her life, and some of them she dated back to her own mother's collection, kept alive by succeeding cuttings and transplantings. My mother was a natural storyteller, and she loved to sit with us, her children, and tell stories—some which she made up for us out of a vivid imagination and many which were fragments out of her own life. "Once upon a time..." I first heard these words intoned by her so long ago that they are beyond the point of recollection, but the magic of these four little words has cast a spell over my life and I still can project myself into that wonderful world of enchantment with nostalgic delight and yearning. My mother was all these things and more to me; and yet I know MEMORIES Catherine B. Bowles A radiant light still glows Along the byways as | roam— A narrow winding pathway That leads me back to home. That she, like all of us, was no perfection. She would be the las one to gloss over her faults o magnify her goodness. But eve her weaknesses, and her recognition of them, became a source strength to me. These are three women in t background of my life wh qualities of courage and strengt I can only attempt to approximate, but it is my duty and m responsibility to try to make t attempt. My background is no unique; it is duplicated in t lives of many other Latter-da Saint women. Every woman, she takes her place in each succeeding generation, has a responsibility to those who follow her. The only way any of us can ful fill this great responsibility an acknowledge the great debt owe is to pattern our lives so th our own children and grandchildren may, in turn, receive t benefits and blessings which a their rightful heritage. With bowed heads by the table Sat my parents old and worn, Giving thanks for all their blessings— For the children they had borne. Father's hands were scarred and shaky, Gently placed upon my head— Then all aches and pains would vanish As he stood beside my bed. Now those memories linger, And though | journey late, | feel protective counsel To make my pathway straight. 328 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest @ The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1966. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize 0 02222222-2---$40 Second prize | 22.0.-.-$30 Third prize 00000000 00.02.002..$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4, The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That is has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. A9 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she' is again eligible to enter the contest. 329 MAY 1966 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax ane 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1966. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Relief Society Short Story Contest @ The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1966 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1966. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prige - --.-.-2-----------.$75 Second prize - -..2-.-----$60 'Gird prime ---.-$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 330 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against: loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition: published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submit- ted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be LITERARY CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS 1966 submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1966. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. MY NEIGHBOR Dorothy J. Roberts Each spring | fear no furrow May stripe his field again, Age let the ground lie fallow, Spring be a stranger, then. Each spring | scan his garden— Where the fall was neatly burned— Praying his palms may harden And a furrow again be turned, Knowing that sometime winter Will walk a wanton way, And the striving seed of summer No longer line the day. Then | see fresh earth toppling, White gulls a queue on wing, And on his plow, triumphant, My harbinger of spring! A GARDEN Vera R. Holden Reddish, Stockport, Cheshire, England lf | had just a tiny plot, I'd make a lovely bower. I'd plant it with forget-me-nots, And every modest flower. Kind hearts should bloom upon the trees; Much laughter | would sow With happy thoughts borne on the breeze, And nothing sad could grow. And as | gathered—everywhere I'd scatter loving seeds, For these would be my roses rare, And unkind things the weeds. 331 ~. @iIs that all there is to it? Thought Martha, gazing at the papers spread in front of her on the kitchen table. You put your signature on a few official-looking documents, and then the land you'd lived on and worked and loved for so many years was no longer yours. By a few scribbles of a pen she had transferred to someone else a house, most of which they had built themselves, a house in which they had brought up the family, a house whose every corner was full of memories. "T believe I understand everything now, Bert,' she said to the man who stood by the table. Her voice was calm in spite of the thoughts which tore at her heart. "The lawyer explained everything pretty well the other day when we signed these papers."' Bert Randall nodded. "I guess that's all then, Mrs. Nelson. Those are your papers. I've got mine at home." Bert looked around Martha's big kitchen, bare now except for the table at which she sat, four chairs, her sewing machine in its place by 332 The —, Old Stove ") Lael J. Littke the big windows, and the old black coal range. "Dorothy and I are going to enjoy this place, Mrs. Nelson," he said. "Seems as if we've been crammed into little places ever since we were married. And the kids will love the farm." "I'm sure they will.'"' Martha wished he would go. She didn't want to think about someone else living in her home. Bert glanced once more around the room. "This kitchen seems so homey," he said. "Guess it's the old stove there."' Martha said nothing. Bert shuffled his feet. "Id better get along. Best of everything to you, Mrs. Nelson. Must be hard to sell your place." He went out, and the kitchen door squeaked shut behind him. I've got to oil that hinge again, thought Martha automatically. Then she remembered that she wouldn't be around to hear it squeak any more. The farm was sold. Sold. What a hard, chilly word. How could it be sold, something that seemed so much a part of herself? How could you sell the view of the mountains? What was the value of the gullies where her boys had pursued imaginary Indians, or the apple tree under which her daughters had tended their families of dolls? What price would you place on the fortythree years of toil and hope and tears and happiness she and Jim had put into the land? Her thoughts were interrupted by commotion on the stairs. "Be careful," she heard Rick caution. "This old bureau has been safe up there for at least half a century. Let's not ruin it now." She heard Jeff laugh. "It's my leg that's about to be ruined," he said. "It may not be as old as this bureau, but I'm quite attached to it." Both of her sons laughed, then resumed their hazardous trip down the stairs. Soon they appeared at the bottom, their faces red and perspiring as they carried the unwieldy bureau, which had been part of Martha's first bedroom set, out to the waiting truck. "They sure built things solid in the early days, Mother," Jeff puffed. Beth and Laura came downstairs carrying boxes loaded with dolls and other childhood treasures. "My younger children will have a regular celebration when I bring these things home," said Laura. "Even the older ones may be interested. They have all loved to play with these things when they visited Grandma." Beth put down her box and pulled out a doll with an oldfashioned, brightly painted china face and stiffly neat hair. THE OLD STOVE "T don't think I'll give Flora to my girls," she said. "I think I'll save her for my grandchildren." MilartHA smiled, remembering Beth as a romantic-minded little girl whose dearest possession had been Flora, the doll which her own grandmother had given her. "T'd better stop being lazy and come up and help," Martha said. Laura shook her head. 'You stay here, Mother. We have to get everything all sorted and just have to carry it down. Then there is this kitchen stuff and we're all finished."' Martha dutifully sat down. As a matter of fact, she was tired. For the past two days she and her sons and daughters had been cleaning out closets and sorting through the collected treasures of forty-three years. Today they had brought the truck to carry away what couldn't be hauled in their cars. Today was the last day on the old place. She was glad that her children could come to help. They had arranged to leave their jobs and their families for a few days and gather for the last time at the old house to help her move. Martha knew she couldn't have faced it alone, either the physical labor or the emotional strain. It didn't seem to bother her children. They seemed so cheerful, as if this were some sort of lark. They had laughed their way through old school papers and pictures and had unemotionally discarded mementos of their childhoods. But then they were grown people now. Jeff was an engineer and Rick a journalist. 333 MAY 1966 Beth and Laura were both married to successful businessmen. They all had homes and families of their own and didn't need their old things. Martha looked around her sunny kitchen. The windows were bare without the bright geraniums which had always bloomed there. They were now in the city, crowded onto the sill of the small kitchen windows of her new little apartment, all jammed together where they didn't fit, just as she soon would be also transplanted to a strange place. Her glance continued around the room, lingering on the dear old treadle-type sewing machine which had stitched patches on 'so many overalls and marched along countless yards of material transforming it into dresses, or quilt tops, or rag rugs. She almost dreaded to look at the old cookstove because of the rush of memories it would bring and the thoughts of leaving it behind, for it was too big and ungainly to move. Besides, she wouldn't need it in the all-electric kitchen of her new apartment. The old stove had stood there in the kitchen for all of Martha's married life, not a sleek, lovely appliance like the modern stoves, but a looming, big, black, friendly monster, with warming ovens rising above its cooking surface, and a reservoir for heating water appended to its side, an essentially unattractive object, yet beautiful in its utility. It had six lids, and numerous little doors tucked here and there for the removal of ashes and soot. There were levers to adjust the draft and a small slot in its side for poking up the coals. The capa- 334 cious oven had turned out countless meals, and the oven door had often served as a place on which to sit to warm oneself. Bert Randall said it was the stove which made the kitchen look homey, and he was right. Just as the big comfortable kitchen was the heart of the house, so the old stove was the heart of the kitchen. Around it the family had gathered after evening chores were done and supper over to listen to the radio, or just to talk. She could almost see Jim sitting there as he had done so many years ago, holding a child on his lap while he read to the whole family. Where had the years gone? It seemed such a short time since she and Jim, newly married, had started building this house. Now Jim was gone, and the house, and farm, and the stove were being left behind. It was so hard without Jim. But then, in a way, she was glad he had been the first to go. Why, what would he have done without her to trim his hair and cook his meals and tell him not to work so hard? Martha wiped a hint of moisture from her eyes and gazed again at the old stove. Hirschvogel, the children had named it after Jim had read them the fairytale about the old Niirnberg Stove. Old Hirschvogel. It had been the first thing she and Jim purchased after their marriage. They had never had much besides the bare necessities, but they had gone ahead and been happy and reared a family with what they had. They had filled their children full of love and homemade bread and sent them out to face the big world. These farm-bred, mountain children had met the challenges and had made places for themselves in the outside world, but they always returned whenever they could, to sit by the old stove and talk of their adventures. Fragments of a phrase from an old radio program came to Martha's mind. Something about a stage on which were played a thousand dramas daily. "Grand Central Station," she recalled. Well, there had been a good many 'family dramas enacted right there in the kitchen in front of the old stove. It was by the stove's warm side she and Jim had sat through the long night after the telegram came saying Jeff was wounded in a battle halfway around the world. And it was around the stove that the family gathered the day he returned, pale and weak after several months in the hospital, but oh, so very much alive. Laura's first baby had his first bath in a pan on the kitchen table close to the warmth of the stove, just as his mother before had been bathed. It was by the old stove that Beth sat the night before her wedding and spoke reminiscently of her childhood on the farm, of her love for her horses, for the chuckling creek, for the meadows and mountains. She had lingered there, softly closing the door on her girlhood, and then the next morning had stood in the same spot, radiant and happy, speaking only of her love for her Bob. Rick had leaned against the old stove, troubled and uncertain, on the day he had decided to risk the operation which would improve his vision or make him forTHE OLD STOVE ever sightless. It was one of the first things he had looked at when he returned home after a successful operation. THE stove was just too much a part of her life. It wasn't a thing she could part with any more than she could uproot and tear out all her memories of the past. She was going to take old black Hirschvogel with her! Perhaps she could crowd it into the tiny kitchen of the city apartment. She didn't think there was a chimney to which to connect it, but at least it would be there. Or perhaps Jeff would store it in his garage. She didn't know what Jeff and the others would say. Certainly they would try to talk her out of it. How could they be expected to understand why an aging woman wanted an old black monstrosity of a stove? There was no place in their busy lives and shining modern homes for an old — relic like that. But she was going to take it with her somehow. It wasn't only the big things she remembered about the stove —it was the little things, too. Such as the way it made the kitchen feel on a brisk autumn morning. Or how the children popped corn on it, pushing the old mesh popper back and forth and then laughing when the corn exploded inside. Who could count the baby chicks who lived through the first precarious days of their lives in a box by the warm stove? Then there was the dog, Old Sport, and the way he used to sneak into the house in the winter and slide across the floor on his belly to hide behind the stove, craftily believing he had escaped detection. 305 MAY 1966 Martha's thoughts were interrupted by the tramping of feet on the stairs. "That's everything upstairs, Mother," Laura said, as she and the others appeared, each loaded with boxes. "We'll be back in a jiffy and get this kitchen stuff," said Rick, "then we'll be off for the city." As they trooped out, Martha wondered how she should tell them about the stove. The best way was just to state she was taking it and then stand firm against their arguments to the contrary, just as she had had to stand firm when they were children. She watched as they returned and carried out the table, chairs, and sewing machine. Then they stood by the side of the truck talking—probably giving her a chance to say goodbye to the empty house. She went to stand in front of the stove when she saw them coming into the house. It would give her strength to stand by her old friend. Her four children filed back into the kitchen and stood in a line in front of her. As she looked at them Martha was reminded of the children they once had been, and the way they used to come and line up like that when they needed her to help solve some problem. Laura cleared her throat. '"Mother,'"' she said, ''you'll probably think we are out of our minds." The others grinned sheepishly. "Mother," Laura continued, "It's like this. We all want Old Hirschvogel." They wanted the old stove! Before Laura could go on, Beth 336 spoke up. "It seems so much a part of our childhood that we can't leave it. I could probably find a place for it in my family room. Then my children could pop corn on it, and I could read to them by it as you used to do." But it wouldn't mean the same to them as it does to you, Martha wanted to say. They haven't grown up with it. They have their own memories. "I could use it in my basement," Laura said. "I'd have to take off the reservoir and also the warming oven, but I would surely like to have it." Take off the reservoir and the warming oven? It wouldn't be the same stove without them. It was Jeff's turn to speak. "T'd even be willing to store it in my garage, just to keep it in the family." "Or maybe you'd like to have it in your apartment," Rick said. "We could probably figure out some way to connect it to a chimney.". Miartua looked at her children. How could she have thought moving out of the old home was just a lark to them? They were adults now, but their world had begun here within these walls, and it was as if that particular part of the world was ending when they had to remove a whole lifetime of possessions from the house. They were clinging to the old stove as an anchor to the past just as she was. She smiled at them, lined up there in front of her. Funny. She had never noticed before how the last vestiges of childhood clung to them, apparent in the vulnerable curve of Jeff's cheek, in the springiness of Laura's still pretty black hair, the wonder in Beth's blue eyes, and in Rick's angelimp grin. It was almost as if they were children again, asking for her guidance through a problem. Martha's eyes misted over for a moment and then her vision cleared. They weren't children any longer, any more than she was the young wife and mother who had reigned over this particular little domain for so long. "No," she said briskly, ''the stove belongs here with the house. It has a job to do helping to bring up another family. We'll take it along, all right, but only in memories, just as we'll take along your father, the house, the apple tree, the mountains, and the good times we had here together. Just as I'll take along the little children who once lived here. That old stove wouldn't be the same anywhere else. It would just sit around decaying, reminding us of how it used to be. We're going to live in the present, and we're going to let Old Hirschvogel do the same."' The four people before her looked at her silently for a moment, then they smiled. "You're right, Mother," Jeff said. He patted the door of the warming oven. "You know, I envy those Randall kids, growing up here." THE OLD STOVE _ Each one of them rubbed some part of the old stove before going out. Martha was the last to leave. "Goodbye," she whispered. She looked all around the empty, yet memory-filled room and let her gaze linger for just a moment on the old stove. '""Goodbye, Hirschvogel."" She turned and walked rapidly through the door, closing it squeakily behind her. "You noisy old hinge," she said under her breath. '"That's no way to welcome a new family."' She snatched an oil can from a box of things she was leaving for Bert Randall, and oiled the complaining hinge. "There," she said, opening and closing the now silent door. Then she walked down the path to where her children waited for her. "Let's go," she said. '""The lady who lives in the apartment next to mine said the other day that I should come and have dinner with her when I got back, and I don't want to be too late." CLAIM FOR MERCY Christie Lund Coles This is my claim for mercy, Lord, And mercy needs must be i have loved many children And they, me. 337 Resembling Mother Pearle M. Olsen @ When I called on my elderly uncle recently, my heart was made glad as he said, "I've been thinking about why you always give me a lift and make me happier whenever you come to see me. I always feel so much better after you come. And do you know what I decided? It's because you are so much like your mother was! There was something about her that was good for a person—she was wonderful! You must recall something about her, don't you?" No, I do not remember my mother, for she died when I was twenty-two months old, but throughout my life I have heard only good about her. Often I have tried reaching back into early recollections with the hope that I could bring her image to mind, but always, the photographs we have of her come uppermost, and I have had to be satisfied with them. I do cling to my earliest memory in life, which is brief as a flash. I asked family members if they had ever told me of this happening but none had, so [I like to think it was a reality, and I treasure it as a possible whisper of a memory of my mother.. I remember I was sitting in what must have been a high chair, and I enjoyed the swishing sound of someone's skirts, swaying as she walked about the room. Sometimes she stooped to pick up the things I dropped and gave them to me. She caressed my head, sometimes with a kiss, and I felt warm and happy. Even though I cannot see her clearly in my mind's eye, I do think it must have been Mama. RESEMBLING MOTHER Many who knew her well have told me how much [ looked like her, and I was always pleased to hear that. My father used to tell me I resembled her in numerous ways. He has been gone now for twenty-four years, and almost everyone who knew Mama is gone, too. She was only in her twenty-third year when she died. I must have been hungry to have her mentioned by someone again, for my heart sang as I welcomed the fine tribute my uncle paid to her. He had known her very well, and I ccnsidered his words a real compliment. There were surely times in my life when I thoughtlessly stepped from my role of resembling my mother. Fortunately, I repented and made an effort to be more what I knew she would want me to be. Considering the fact that I did not know her, nor have her love and training during my childhood, I must have had many of her attributes, inborn and potential, to have had so many remark on the resemblances. My earlier years were full of turmoil and family sorrows, but along with memories of various housekeepers and girls caring for me, I have more happy ones of my mother's sisters who took care of me for intervals. They loved me and must have resembled my mother, also, in many ways. My father married one of them when I was eleven, and she became the only mother I remember, and I owe much of my happiness to her. During my mature years, I have known pride in having so many people tell me I resemble my mother, and I have had a fervent desire to do all I possibly could to make her proud of me, also, and of my resemblance to her. Coupled with that desire, has been another one, dear to my heart, in hoping my own daughters and granddaughters may, in some way and degree, feel that same pride and joy in resemblances to mother. JOURNAL OF MARRIAGE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Bound by the sterling clasp of time, This journal keeps remembrances These living lines Of joys and sorrows, Are memories of marriage years The proof that loves grows strong to meet In shared designs. Unknown tomorrows. The lengthening inheritance Unwritten are the years ahead. Fills leaf on leaf, These pages hold Recorded wisdom, strength, and faith The final truths that only time In treasured sheaf. And God unfold. 339 ~ —S we = Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother = Leah Green w As I look down into the faces of my beloved children, I am consumed with the great responsibility of being the kind of wife and mother I should be. I want to be a helpmate to my husband in every way, sympathetic and understanding of the great responsibility he has in providing for us and to help build his confidence in himself. I hope never to make demands above his power to provide, never to be envious of those who have more in a material way, but rather, to be eternally grateful for what is mine. I shall try to make the most of each day. It has been truly said: "It isn't the house, it's how you live in it that counts." A happy home filled with the spirit of love and understanding can be envied by the millionaire, for sometimes the most elegant of homes, filled with priceless possessions, can house the most unhappy people. President McKay has said: "Our homes should be little outposts of heaven.'"' May mine be a refuge of happiness in this troubled world. May I be guided in the training of these precious spirits that have been entrusted to my care. May I know and understand their many problems. I ask the Heavenly Father to bless me with patience and wisdom in helping them face their lives with courage. May I have power to plant righteous convictions so deep that sin and temptations may have no power to penetrate their lives. May my manners, my speech, and my thoughts be as I would have my children speak, think, and act, for I know that every day I shall be setting a pattern for them to follow in their own lives. I pray for a positive attitude, and not one of self-pity, faultfinding, or an envious one. I pray for constructive ideas that I may grow in faith and wisdom so that I may have the guidance of the Holy Spirit in this sacred calling of being a good wife and mother. 341 A Letter: lo Daughter From Mother Lydia Parker DearM: While your marriage is young, your heart tender toward your husband, his toward you, and both entwined with that precious baby, may the following inspire you to hold tenderness dearly. (This, no doubt, will seem negative, but using the photographers' method, a negative makes a positive picture.) Swords are used to cut down the enemy. Words are too often used to cut up loved ones. Daggers pierce the heart; at the hand of the enemy they are fatal. When resorted to by a loved one, the heart bleeds, but will heal—will heal with a callous. After a maximum of needless, callous healings, that vital organ becomes toughened with scar tissue and can no longer be reached. — Divorce courts are filled with calloused hearts. Homes are plagued with children whose hearts are calloused by resentment of angry words that have cut deep. The saddest moments in parents' lives are when they realize they can no longer find tenderness in their children's hearts. It may take a little more time, but no wasted energy to take a child by the hand. Parents are mirrored in the eyes of their children. Eyes of love reflect eyes of love. Children will wear their parents' expression. Just a little more effort often saves the day. Anger and impatience may stem from negligence that crowds one's time. As an aid to being a peacemaker—be ready to take blame. Darling, please understand—it would be too late to say, "I could have told you," so I am writing this letter now. Lovingly, Mom 342 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Evelyn Wood, a Latter-day Saint woman, in 1959, established in Washington, D. C., the first ''Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics _ Institute."" Today she manages fifty-nine institutes in the United States and Canada. She has traveled in many countries speaking on the importance of reading, giving demonstrations, opening institutes, and directing schoolteachers in the application of her methods. Her new technique for rapid reading has been featured in many national magazines, and she is the author of a textbook 'Reading Skills."' Patricia Gilroy, a student at the University of Washington, is an expert figure skater. She has won two United States gold medals, and is a demonstrator of techniques relative to her ''art,'' as well as a lecturer on the subject. Katharine McBride, President of Bryn Mawr, ranks high among college presidents in the United States. She probably belongs to more key groups than any single male president. Among these organizations are the National Institute of Health and the National Science Foundation. She has served as president of the American Council on Education, and the College Entrance Examination Board. A noted psychologist, she has led Bryn Mawr for twentythree years. Mrs. Hattie Anderson, eighty-two, Leamington, Millard County, Utah, is still "'in business.'"' She is representative of storekeepers in rural areas, who dispense country hospitality and comforting words, along with horseshoes, rakes, hoes, canned goods, wearing apparel, yard goods, household supplies, and notions. Kathy Kusner has been acclaimed top horsewoman of the United States. She entered her first horse show at the age of twelve; scored her first win at fourteen; and at eighteen she set a woman's high jumping record of seven feet, three inches, a record which still stands. At twenty-one she made the United States Equestrian Team and was chosen '"'Horsewoman of the Year." Now, at twenty-five, she is making plans to participate in the 1967 PanAmerican Games, and the 1968 Olympics. Laura H. Fisher, a member of the Cheyenne Stake Relief Society Board, has recently had her second novel for children published, ''You Were Princess Last Time'' (Holt, Rinehart, and Winston). Mrs. Fisher's first book ''Amy and the Sorrel Summer" appeared in 1964. She is the wife of Dr. Roger Fisher, a professor at the University of Wyoming, and they have three children. Mrs. Margaret Durrance (Miggs Jennings) was a member of the 1948 United States Olympic Ski Team. Now she travels the world around writing articles on skiing and illustrating them with her own excellent photography. She is a specially appointed photographer. For the ''National Geographic Magazine." Mrs. Dorothy K. Haslam, mother of five children, who makes her home in Utah, is a member of the Museum of Ceremonial Art in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and is a well-known collector of Indian artifacts and a lecturer. She is an authority on sand painting and weaving, pottery, and jewelry. 343 344 EDITORIAL Volume 53 May 1966 Number 5 belie S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Young Women in Relief Society Most young women are motivated by a desire to make something beautiful of their lives. Many realize the need for help beyond themselves for fullest achievement. Some know and others need to be assured that Relief Society offers a way for fulfillment of their goals, that for each desire, Relief Society membership and activity have a reward. Young women who have found themselves in Relief Society have responded to its. Programs with eager acceptance. The more than 6500 members of University campus Relief Societies are among the most ardent of sisters. They bear testimony of their joy in continuing spiritual and cultural education. Dedicated and selfless compassionate service is being given on campuses by the young married sisters. Loving kindness is their watchword. To no women are their homes more precious, their husbands more honored, their children more cherished. Relief Society needs the youthful vigor and enthusiasm, the strength and _ willingness, the knowledge and_ dedication of the young women in addition to the graces and strengths of the mature women. Young women need the guiding influence, the steadying hand, the inspirational teaching, the heaven-inspired leadership of Relief Society. DESIRES Desire to accept what the Lord has provided. Desire to give full expression to her innate urge to worship and serve the Lord. Desire for growth as a person. Desire for continuing education. Desire to know her religion. Desire for leadership opportunities. Hood. Desire to achieve refinement. Desire to be a worthy wife. Desire to be a noble mother. Desire to be a competent homemaker. Desire to have her capabilities recognized. Desire to overcome weaknesses. Desire to make friends. Desire for social experiences. Desire to give volunteer service. ) f REWARDS Relief Society is a divine gift to women. The programs of Relief Society give impetus to worship and provide ways to serve. Relief Society encourages and provides intellectual stimulation. Courses of study enlighten spiritually, culturally, mentally, and add to her store of knowledge. _ The doctrines and principles of the gospel are taught through Priesthood approved lessons. Sisters may hold executive, administrative, committee, and class leader responsibilities, thus receiving leader- _ ship training. Desire for poise, for gracious woman- | The security of knowing what is right to do is gained by participation in the _ many-faceted Relief Society program. Relief Society exerts a refining influence by teaching the best, the most uplifting ideals. Relief Society teaches her to understand the sharing of the blessings of ' her husband's Priesthood. Lessons are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons so that husband and wife may be united in gospel understanding. No goal is more desirable and Relief Society leads the way. Skills and techniques are taught to increase her abilities. Relief Society makes use of her talents and helps her discover new talents. Strength is gained by association with wise and spiritual sisters and by profiting from the experiences of others. Friendships so lasting are formed in Relief Society that the Prophet's mother stated that we may all sit down in heaven together. Relief Society has delightful socials where sisters are given incentives to have happy association with others. _ Opportunities to let her compassionate nature be enlarged are abundant in Relief Society. —I|. W. M. 345 a mw Arlene McHugh was making every minute count as she hurried with her washing. Little Clair and Carl were still asleep, but that wouldn't last for long. She gathered up the colored batch and put it in the conventional washer. Then, taking the white batch in the big basket, she went outside to hang the clothes on the line. As Arlene hung her sparkling white wash, she crooned a little overture. She looked at the blue, blue sky, with puffs of clouds arranged artistically. They reminded her of her billowy wash. Indoor clothes dryers were a housewife's best friend on rainy or winter days. But outdoor clotheslines were made for summer. Hanging clothes was such a wonderful time to think and count one's blessings. One blessing was the fact that her husband Barney had a good paying summer job. Which was a mighty fine thing, as Bamey tried to make enough in summers to tide them over winters, while he went to college. That 346 Washday Blues Frances C. Yost =_ 7 4 made it so they had to budget very carefully the year around. Even though they lived in a little modest house, the rent came around like a merry-go-round. And even though Arlene made all her bread and every pie and cake they consumed; even though they used dry milk and economy spreads and_ stretched every grocery dollar to the limit, there just never was money for entertainment of any kind. That was why she and Barney started going to the concerts in the park. That was why they took the'boys to the wading pool and watched them frisk a bit. That was why they started taking nature hikes, and other walking sight-seeing "expeditions. Who was it had said the best things in life were free? That was true to some extent. Yes, she and Barney had learned to laugh about what they called "the family squeeze." Arlene had remodeled hand-down clothes from both sides of the family. Barney had once said it was too bad Arlene couldn't make shoes, she was so handy at making every other item of clothing. Well, she had sewed up shoes more than once. And she had made dresses and shirts, and well everything, really. She had retailored Barney's suit—when the legs were baggy, and the coat was double breasted. It was a mighty good job, too. Even Mrs. Coombs, who altered at the Bon Ton, said she couldn't have done better herself. Arlene had the whole batch hanging on the line, and it hadn't taken a minute, because her mind had been so active and so blissfully happy. Now Arlene had all her wash out, and was cleaning up the washer. She felt something hard and round and she brought it up out of the water. It was a quarter. Arlene smiled and said: '"Barney's left change in his pocket again. I've told him 'losers weepers, finders keepers.' "' Then Arlene spied a half dollar. Seventy-five cents! Wow! Now I can buy that tube of lipstick I've wanted. It's so much fun on washday! When she was first married to Bamey, washday had seemed such a chore. The very thought of washday gave her the ''washday blues." And then one day something had happened. She would always remember that certain washday Barney had come home from the sand crusher job, his clothes covered with grease. "I'm glad you haven't emptied your wash water, Arlene. Will you run these coveralls through?" Barney was jerking them off. Arlene, watching, could feel her WASHDAY BLUES nose wrinkling slightly. 'Throw them in yourself, Bamey, I hate to touch dirty duds." Later, when Arlene drained the tubs, there had been two dimes in the bottom. "Losers weepers, finders keepers," she teased. -'"Tt was worth much more than twenty cents to have the coveralls washed. Go buy yourself a milk shake, honey." "T need some crochet thread, Barney. Finding money is so exciting!" She had laughed as if the sky had suddenly started sprinkling dimes as raindrops. ARLENE was brought back to the present. This was today. A day wrapped up in the summer of nineteen sixty-five. Arlene just couldn't remember a _ washday since then that she hadn't found a nickel or a dime or a handful of pennies in the washer when she cleaned it out. She knew it was a little game Barney was playing with her—to take away the blues. Well, it did add interest to what might be a dull day. But today's haul made Arlene think. Seventy-five cents left carelessly in work clothes. Perhaps Barney was careless with money. Perhaps she was the only one who was skimping and making over and making do. When Barney had started working on this particular job he said the fellows always bought dinner at the job cafeteria. He said he could get a nice meal for for seventy-five cents. Arlene liked the idea, too. It cost to put up a nice lunch, and this way she wouldn't need to bother. And it would be more fun for Barney eating with the fellows, and en- 347 MAY 1966 joying their chit-chat. Yes, it was a good feeling knowing Barney was eating lunches with the fellows in the cafeteria. Then she remembered this morning. Barney had taken the latest copy of The Improvement Era with him. Barney didn't have time to read. They just had a half hour for lunch. Arlene glanced at the clock. It was six P. M. Just any time after six she and the boys could start looking for their father to come home. This was a happy time of the day. The boys welcomed him home daily with the same joy they welcomed Santa Claus. And there he was climbing out of Bill 'Rice's car, and coming up the walk. "Daddy! Daddy!" The boys were out of the door and scampering to meet him. Arlene watched them with her heart full of joy. Dirty clothes didn't ever stand in the way of a child's love and the need to express it. Barney was coming through the kitchen door. He ducked low with a boy on each shoulder. He winked at Arlene. ''What's for supper? I'm starved." "Hamburger delight." "My favorite."' Now he had pitched off the boys and was taking off his coveralls and work shoes in the utility room. "T'll hurry and bathe and be with you in a second." This was routine, but the next sentence was edged with hunger. "I could go for one of your pies the round uncut kind." Arlene raised her voice to be heard above the bath water flow. "Will you settle for graham cracker pudding?" 348 "My favorite." Supper was funtime at the McHughs. The boys always had lots to tell Daddy. Barney always had happenings at the plant, a joke or two the fellows had related. And sometimes something clever one of the fellows told about their children. Barney liked his work, and the men he worked with. Tonight, Barney seemed to be enjoying his food especially well. He emptied his plate and took seconds all around. He looked over at Arlene and smiled affectionately. "I sure do like my wife's cooking." AFTER supper the boys played in their room, and Barney dried the dishes while Arlene washed them. "What was the special at the cafeteria, Barney?" "Huh? Oh, same old thing." "Did you read the article written by President McKay in the Era?" "Yes, how did you know?" -"One can do a lot of reading in a half hour. That article was so good it would sort of take a man's mind off the fact that he was hungry... Maybe." "What do you mean, honey girl?" "My dear, darling, lovable, generous husband doesn't have lunch money, because he leaves the cost of his dinner in his coveralls so that his wife will be surprised, and will find money to buy lipstick, or some other extravagance that the small budget doesn't allow. Oh, Barney darling! This isn't the first time you have done this. I've been a dummy and didn't figure it out until today. I'm so ashamed."' Bamey put his arms around Arlene. ""Come now. Tears are for funerals and weddings." "Don't ever.. Don't ever leave money where I'll find it in the washer." "And run the risk of my pretty wife getting the washday blues? Not on your life." "But not at the cost of going hungry. Not ever again, Barney. Promise me."' "Don't make me promise, because I've had a lot of fun seeing you wash out my dirty silver. Too much of it has been filthy copper. But I have a medium of exchange that will make your eyes sparkle. How about this?" Barney pulled out an envelope from his shirt pocket. He withWASHDAY BLUES drew a check and handed it to Arlene. "Twenty dollars! For what!" "The boss made me a sort of foreman. With the job, goes a twenty dollar raise a week. Maybe we can take in a show occasionally. Why I might even hire a sitter and take my girl friend dancing." Barney was smiling one of his nicest smiles now... All crinkly and laughing and fun. "We can stay on the college fund budget and do a few things extra, in a small way, of course." "And eat on washday."' Barmey's arms encircled her. Arlene felt warm and protected and comfortable as he held her close. Washday can have so many hues, she thought. THE MATCHLESS ROLE Bertha A. Kleinman (Dedicated to Vida D. Brinton, Arizona Mother of the Year) You may not paint the sunset's amber glow, or sculpture as did Michelangelo, You may not be a nightingale to sing your strophe to the wakening of spring, You may not write a Proverb or a Psalm, or author odes and epics wrested from The genius such as Dante could invoke, or Keats, or Shelley with their master stroke. Leave them enframed within their ivoried towers—life must go on in this space age of ours, And there you are as timeless as the race, a rock of ages nothing can efface, Like sentried hills that watch the sleeping plain, with arms outstretched to shelter and sustain. Your footprints down the aisles of dynasties, indent the annals of the centuries, Inured to pain, endurance, and decree, fettered or free, unawed of destiny; A sculptress in the Maker's mighty plan, copartner in the miracle of man, To still bear on the world's vast multitude— Such is the matchless role af motherhood! 349 MEADOW FLOWERS Norma A. Wrathall Now it's May, my truant thoughts are wandering, And we have climbed a tree-lined fence, our quest Star flowers hiding ankle-deep in marsh grass Where meadowlarks call joy from nest to nest. Soft clumps of pull aparts are pungent islands For nimble feet where quiet waters seep, While sun and white-puff clouds trail endless patterns Along our pink starred paths till shadows creep. The dreaming sky, the scents of earth and flo Rise from my heart, but wander where |! Will, | searc in vain. For rosy fields, and listen Across. 'the silence for the lark's sweet trill. Freezer Time Means Free Time Joyce B. Bailey Company coming? You would love to sit down and visit with Cousin Cora and Uncle Bill, but someone has to feed the crowd, and. Time out for the new baby? Hubby is all thumbs in the kitchen, and piles of dishes are making him frown. Or you just want to take the afternoon off from kitchen patrol and rest a moment, but. If you have a home freezer, a few careful minutes of planning can save you hours over the week. There is no better way to insure that fix-ahead foods are health-giving and retain the vitamins and minerals so important for your family than to freeze them. Are you in a baking mood? Bake an extra batch of your family's favorite cookies and freeze them in individual bags for lunches. Do you dread daily shopping? Shop less often and let your freezer help you save both time and money as you select the best foods when seasonally abundant. THREE-WAY OATMEAL COOKIES (Basic Dough) 114 c. Soft shortening 2 tsp. Flavoring 2 c. Raw or brown sugar 2 c. Self-rising flour or; 1 c. Granulated sugar 2 c. Sifted flour, 2 tsp. Salt, 1 tsp soda 2 eggs 6 c. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 14 c. Water Mix in order listed and divide dough into three parts. To one part add 2 c. Chocolate chips; to the second part add 2 c. Butterscotch bits; and to the third add 1 c. Raisins and 1 c. Chopped nuts. Spoon onto baking sheets. Bake at 350° for 12 minutes. Cool. Place in polyethylene freezer bags and freeze. Cookies will thaw in just a few minutes, as fresh as when you baked them. 351 MAY 1966 MEAT AND MUSHROOM LOAF 114 Ibs. Ground beef _ Y% package onion soup mix 14, lb. Ground sausage 1 can condensed mushroom soup 1 c. Rolled oats canned sliced mushrooms 14, c. Tomato catsup Mix ingredients, except mushrooms and catsup, and press into loaf pan or casserole dish lined with foil. Garnish with the mushrooms and top with catsup. Cover with foil and freeze. Before baking, allow to thaw 114 hrs. Place in 350° oven for 114 hrs. Serve with Parmesan baked potatoes. PARMESAN BAKED POTATOES Select potatoes the desired size, using a mealy variety. Wash, bake 1 hour at 350°. Slice potatoes lengthwise, sccop out center, saving shells. Mash, then whip until light and fluffy with milk, Sutter, salt, and pepper. Heap into shells and allow to cool. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, wrap individually in foil and freeze. To serve, defrost for 114 hrs. At room temperature; then bake for 40 minutes at 350°. SPINACH DELIGHT Cook 2 packages of frozen spinach according to directions on label. Drain. Add 1 can condensed mushroom soup. Heat and serve. STRAWBERRY SALAD Crush 2 c. Fresh or frozen strawberries, combine with 14 c. Heavy cream, 12 oz. Cream cheese or 114 c. Cottage cheese. Freeze in individual paper cups, uncovered. When frozen, wrap in foil. To serve, thaw at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Serve immediately. ICE-CREAM CLOWNS Arrange 12 crisp cookies on a tray. Place a scoop of ice cream on each cookie. Use chocolate chips for eyes and strips of maraschino cherry for mouth and nose. Place an ice cream cone on each scoop for a hat. A real party pleaser! AFTERGLOW Zara Sabin Firelight fingered your face as we Sat silent before its waning glow— My head soft-cushioned on your knee, Our hands close-clasped. No Words were needed, for we were both Savoring the joys of plighted troth. Firelight fingers your face tonight— The hearth is the same and the fire low. | smile as | watch the kindly light Soften your features, till long ago Is yesterday, or so it appears. 352 @ Unfortunately our hours do not coincide. In the morning I leave for work at seven-thirty, and my sixteen-year-old son Steve leaves for school at eight. As I rush from the bedroom, dressed, ready to prepare breakfast, Steve scurries from his room, dressed, also, and ready to eat. As he pours the milk and I scramble the eggs, there are only a few minutes for idle conversation. For instance: who won the track meet, and why the coach didn't put him in the hurdles... Which girl he would like to ask to the junior prom, and, again why doesn't the English teacher give out the assignments more than once to any one student? Suddenly, it is time to grab my purse and hurry to the corner Kaye T. Roberts before the bus slides by without me. As I rush down the steps in a starting rain, I wonder what it was I forgot to mention to my son. Always, it seems, there was something important I forgot to say. As a rule, he is home from school by four and off to his parttime job at the market before I step off the bus at five-thirty. Moving like quicksilver, he comes and goes, and I am left with small clues detecting his whereabouts. Tonight, in a hard downpour, I climb the steps and wonder if Steve has been home and gone... The unclosed door provides the answer. In any season, come wind or rain, the front door is left from an inch to wide open. In 353 MAY 1966 his mad rush he forgets to close it tightly., Inside, I close my umbrella and wonder, has he eaten? Removing my wet raincoat I walk toward the kitchen. Rain has brought early darkness and I switch on the lights. If the cupboard and refrigerator doors are closed and the sink clear, then I expect to find a note saying he is planning to eat out. Normally though, he has left his clues; on the sinkboard an opened jar of mayonnaise, a jar of peanut butter, an empty soup can, a loaf of opened bread, a half-sliced onion, a greasy skillet. Tonight, the refrigerator door is ajar and a bit of meat is left in the skillet on the stove. Like Hansel and Gretel, he has trailed crumbs from the kitchen, through the hallway, and into his bedroom. In his bedroom, I look around for his slicker. Is it on his back, or will he come in later drenched to the skin? I figure this out by subtraction and deduction. His tan school pants are on the chair, and his shoes are upside down and his socks inside out on the green throw rug beside his bed. A brown belt is flung over the top of his dresser and his blue work pants are missing. Thus, I presume he has been in, changed, and gone to work. His slicker isn't draped over the chair back or thrown on his desk, so I hope it is on his back. And, yes, he has showered. The wet towel has been carried in and dropped on the bedspread, and the washcloth drips from the edge of the wash basin. Leaving the room, I pick up 354 an empty milk bottle, this morning's sports section, orange peels, a pair of soiled socks, and used notepaper that has missed the waste paper basket by a mile. I straighten the shades and hang up his pajamas. A lamp falls from a stack of magazines that are piled on his night stand. The lamp and magazines hit a pile of records, and they all strike the floor! All right, this is it! Starting tonight, I'm turning over a new leaf. We're going to improve this room. Completely discouraged, I size up Steve's room. Where have I failed? Tonight I'll be ready with a lecture. When he comes whistling in the door I'll be ready. How can this sixteen-year-old son of mine high jump, swing a tennis racket until it is a thing of beauty, play such a dreamy clarinet, and still be so thoroughly careless? How can he slip out of the door looking so clean-cut and leave this total mess behind? As I lift my hand to turn off the light, I see the report card that has slipped under his bed. Reading it, I want to cry. Four solids are only mediocre grades. I was so in hopes he'd make at least one accelerated class. I walk back to the kitchen, tired both in mind and body. Self-pity, that I so often hold in check, sweeps over me again. I've missed so much, not being home perhaps at the important moment, not being able to eat our meals together. Not being home when he opens the door, not being here to call goodbye when he walks out. In the service porch, something wet and dripping strikes me full in the face. I quickly flash on the switch and find three pairs of gym socks and two gym shirts hanging on a make-shift line to dry. The clorox is stifling. Sickly, I remember. I had forgotten to wash his gym clothes the night before. I enter the kitchen, ready to prepare a rather thin, lonely meal. There among the dirty dishes I find a note I had missed earlier. Steve had hurriedly written on a scrap of notebook paper: I just remembered that you might not get your check cashed. Here is three bucks... Go out and get yourself a good meal, Mom. P. S. You forgot to leave a note for the milkman. I'll bring two quarts of milk home from the store. Steve. Time for a lecture? I sink down on a kitchen chair. Forgive me, son, I think to myself. So you forgot to shut the door, hang up your clothes, and tidy your room. You had thought about me. You washed your gym clothes, and cloroxed them, bless you, right in my kitchen sink. At least you had tackled the job. In your own sixteen-year-old way, you had prepared your own food. Slipping my hand into my dress pocket, I bring out the report card. This time I read the THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT note from the teacher about an inquiry I had made about Steve's citizenship grades. "Steve is very cooperative," he wrote, '"'courteous, gets along well with others, appears to be welladjusted, and respects the rights of others. However, he needs to improve upon neatness on his homework assignments. He could make better use of his class time." I stand up straight and carefully fold the paper. On second thought, I'm not as fatigued as { first thought. My appetite is climbing. Just for tonight, I'll count my blessings, and forget about the lecture. Instead, I want to think of a rather clever note to leave upon the clean kitchen table, so Steve will be sure to see it when he takes the milk to the kitchen, later, when he comes from work. Something about thanking him for being so sweet and leaving me the three dollars. It would — take a bit of thinking, for sixteenyear-old boys don't like to be told they're sweet. I pick up the greasy skillet and put it to soak. In a short time, I think to myself, humming, while my own dinner cooks, the right words will come. UNTO OTHERS Maude O. Cook Be generous with praise and slow to censure, For oftentimes a kind word heals the heart, While condemnation freezes good intention, And leaves a wound as deep as would a dart. 355 Photographs by John R. Shupe PINK AND WHITE flowers decorate this bulletin board made for a girl's room. A perfect organizer for all those things she likes to collect. IDEAL for a narrow wall space is this slender bulletin board measuring 13" x 36". Telephone messages, shopping lists, and must-do's for the day find their way to this strategically located hanging. LEO THE LION cut of felt parks firmly on the bulletin board of this grade-schooler. Any number of designs might grace this kind of board, made from composition board and covered with burlap. Bulletin June F. Krambule A practical gift for adult or child; ideal organizer for a busy mother; instant-reminder to a forgetful teenager; attractive wall decoration, costing about a dollar—these describe a simple-to-make, easy-to-use bulletin board that can be completed in an afternoon. It was devised by Mrs. Barbara Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, who made several for her children, who were great collectors of this-and-that. To construct one of these bulletin boards, first obtain a piece of composition board, approximately 17" x 26" (costing about fifty cents), or in any shape you may prefer. Cover with burlap in your choice of color, requiring not more than two-thirds yard, and costing about forty cents. Stretch the material smoothly over the board, keeping the grain of the fabric straight. Glue in back and tack or staple securely. Corners should be carefully clipped and mitered, making them as flat as possible. Now, decorate and trim to your heart's desire with lions, flowers, fruits, bees, parasols, butterflies, fish, or trees! Bits of colored felt to match your decor are ideal for this. Apply a stick-on wall hanger, provide push-pins, or those with glass heads—then use well and often. 357 Much of Worth - The Relief Society Magazine Mabel L. Anderson m'"That surely must be a good Magazine,' Mark said, as he took his grandmother's picture. ""You are always reading it." "Tt is, the best in the world,' Grandma Violet Nielsen answered as she continued to peruse The Relief Society Magazine. That she was always reading it, was not quite accurate. When one saw the mountains of sewing she did, of cross-stitched aprons, pillows, quilt tops, crocheting, and items for the bazaars and trousseaux for granddaughters; when one tasted her good home cooking, and visited her neat little home, one knew that her hands were indeed busy. But when leisure moments came to her, when she must stop to rest, the litthe Magazine she loved was right at hand, by her rocker or easy chair, or bedside table. As soon as the postman delivered it, matters of less urgency were dropped ''just to glance through it." Sister Nielsen, as thousands of Relief Society women throughout the world, has found much of worth in the Magazine. Through it she can keep up with the lessons, whether she is able always to be at the meetings or not. Through it she becomes vicariously acquainted with people in other lands, in other walks of life, and yet keeps in touch with her own people at home. In its pages she comes in contact with the thoughts, with the minds of great men and women of the Church, of the world. From it her testimony of the gospel gains strength. 358 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Within it she often finds expressions of her own thoughts for which she has never quite found the words. For relaxation, she enjoys the interesting, homey stories, and likes to try one of the recipes now and then, or a new pattern for handwork is always a delight and a challenge to her. Someone said that books are like people—that they have a soul. Then our little Magazine is surely a friendly soul and shares with its readers pleasures, dreams, hopes, revelation, offers words of comfort in sorrow, is a wise counselor for problems. It is a friend one likes to have in one's home, at one's fireside, by one's easy chair, as it is with Sister Nielsen. Although we do meet many of the great of the world there, most of them are the folksy folks like you and me and Grandma Nielsen who talk to us in words we know and can understand. Yes, women look forward to the Magazine with pleasure, with anticipation. It speaks to us of the modern world in which we live, of a future world that is coming, but to many of us who are approaching the twilight years we often find much in it of memory, of recognition, and it gives to the younger women an occasional backward look to other, older ways, and makes for understanding. An old adage says a man (or woman) is known by the company he keeps. What gentle, kindly company Grandma Nielsen keeps. After a session in her easy chair with her little Magazine, her mind and body are refreshed. TO ONE AWAY Enola Chamberlin There is remembering in my heart tonight— Not just of spring as winter winds blow cold; Not just of summer with its warmth and light, Nor of the autumn with its bronze and gold. But recalling in my heart of other days When other winters lay along the land; Exploring feet were walking other ways, And to my hand there clung another hand. You are not lost completely but the miles Are long and far that keep our hands apart, And loneliness like wind-blown snowdrifts piles Its bitter cold around my yearning heart. And though ahead | see a beam of light, There is remembering in my heart tonight. 359 360 Genevieve Van Wagenen m As youngsters we romped together, sat on the back porch at grandma's, and ate jam on homemade bread which she had baked. We laughed at our jam-smudged faces, appointed a committee of one, to ask for "seconds" for us all. Together, we peeked into the silent parlor (which was usually off limits), admired the red plush chairs and spun glass flowers grandma prized so highly. Disregarded the cautions and warnings and slid down the banister, walked the picket fence, climbed the apple tree, ate our fill of | ' green apples. Caught pollywogs and water skaters under the bridge. Popped corn, we helped grandpa shell, by rubbing two cobs together. Tested skill, as we jumped on the hay in grandpa's bam. Acted as good Samaritans by removing the itchy straw we'd tumbled into, from each others shirts and necks and hair. Drank water from grandpa's sparkling flowing well. Made yards and yards of dandelion chains. Played train in the old wooden swing, each taking his turn being the conductor, collecting tickets, calling stations, and letting passengers on and off. We shared birthday parties and valentines, Thanksgiving Days and Christmas. Carved jack-o'- lanterns. Treasured the willow whistles grandpa taught us how to make—how carefully he selected the willow! How gently he tapped the bark with his pocket knife, to loosen it; then slipped it off and made that all-important notch in the wood, then slid the bark back on again. Each owner tested his out for sound. When each one had a whistle, we formed a band. Our enthusiasm would have made John Philip Sousa envious. Together we waited (during what seemed the longest time in our lives) while the adults ate their dinner. We watched the steaming bowls of vegetables passed about. The meat disappearing. Smelled the fragrant, tantalizing aromas that made us impatient. Listened to the adults' joyous conversation that droned on endlessly. At last someone remembered us. The dishes were cleared away, the table reset, the bowls refilled. After what had seemed an eternity, we were all seated around the table. Yes, our hopes and prayers had been answered, there was still some chocolate cake left, and homemade ice cream, enough to make the rounds—but not enough to satisfy our appetites. (Could it ever?) We were often together on Sunday evenings. We sang hymns together and knelt in our family prayer as grandpa prayed for one and all. We waved or called goodbye as each family separated and trudged home. So much we shared together of fun and love, of learning and comradeship. The sidewalk wasn't broad enough to hold us all, as we walked with arms locked - around each other's necks. Yes, there were favorites among our group. We tolerated the younger "tag-alongs" and "tattle tales" and made plans to "get even" with youthful informers—plans that had never materialized, for THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT grandfather, as patriarch, meted out justice to both accused and accuser and taught a Christian lesson to both. We were a happy, carefree group of youngsters. Tall and short, blond and brunette, blue eyes and brown, curly hair and straight, but somewhere _intermingled in all our differences was a similarity. We bore the trademark of our sturdy pioneer ancestors—you could tell we "'belonged." THEN industry and _ transfers scattered our families. No longer was distance measured by blocks and miles. We were separated by states and hundreds of miles, even thousands of miles. Years parted us. Rarely did we share together the warmth of grandpa's stove, or gather round the organ grandma played. When we were there—others were not. No time seemed convenient for all. We heard of "doings," achievements, and tragedies. Grandma kept in touch with all. Then. Grandma passed away. Then grandpa. That was the last time we were all together. The communication lines never again operated as efficiently as when grandma was in charge. Procrastination, neglect, responsibilities —life itself, almost severed the lines of communication. Aunt Mary, the family genealogist is our main source of information, now. Recently we have been returning—returning at rather frequent intervals. Not to grandpa's home, for it has long ago been sold. Not to our childhood homes; for years they have housed strangers. We have returned with bowed and 361 MAY 1966 reverent heads, with loved ones, to the quiet, hallowed family plots. To pay last respects to a beloved parent, a favorite uncle, or a thoughtful loving aunt. We look around. At first glance, there are strangers in our midst, but they are strangers only momentarily. A smile, a softly spoken childhood nickname, a_ peculiar little chuckle, erases the camouflage of years and reveals—our cousins! What memories crowd around! What joys abound! What surprises! Little blond curlyheaded Georgie, whom we've remembered through the years as being such a doll, is a tall, distinguished, gray-haired lawyer, now. Tom, who once could jump the farthest in the hay loft, has continued to make great strides— he is a big executive in the East. Skinny Mildred has changed so much—she is well-padded, now. We never would have recognized her, if she hadn't been with Aunt Mill. Just think, we who once were pals, could have passed on the street without knowing one another! The handshakes are firm, the hugs and kisses plentiful. We feel the family's eternal tie. Lapy luck has leaned heavily on some. Other cousins, she has snubbed. Tragedy has trudged the path with some. Success has followed others all the way. Talent has mingled freely with them all. Some have clung to the "iron rod," others relinquished their grasp and habits now seem to have pushed it beyond their reach. But wait! There is hope! They were wiping their eyes after the dedicatory prayer. The solemnity of life has made an im- 362 pact upon them. Faith has been fanned into a spark. Its light reflects in their eyes. Resolve is felt in their grip and voice. Grandma will be pleased. The cemetery is a sacred spot for us. Grandfather and grandmother are buried here, and their parents before them—our courageous, God-fearing pioneers. Grandfather was sexton at the cemetery for a number of years. As youngsters, we knew the cemetery well. There were old familiar headstones and _ wellknown family names that caught our quick attention. The towering granite shaft of the wealthiest man in town stands high above all others. There is the "weeping woman" carved in whitest marble, sitting with bowed head. She has kept a silent vigil through all these years. "Over there is another familiar stone," said cousin Beth, motioning southward. Yes, there was the huge gravessize slab of pinkish brown marble. It is two feet thick. In the center rests a large highly polished ball of matching marble. The ball is all of three feet high. ""Do you remember how that bothered us? We worried how that poor man would ever get out on resurrection day, with all that weight on him." So we reminisced, happy in our reunion. Sorrowing that only a funeral could bring us together. Mindful of the fact that once goodbyes were said, and each went his separate way, we might not meet again in this life. Such is life, and time. But we are thankful for our rich heritage, our common bond, and the joyous happy years of youth we spent together as cousins. A Pod Full of Peas Helen Hinckley Jones R Like other American housewives, I have learned to do things the easy way. I have a ready thumbnail for the breakfast food box or the quick mix, a flexible wrist for opening cans and emptying their contents into a bowl or saucepan. But every time I drop a frozen mass of green peas into the required boiling salted water and hear the "klop," I remember the beautiful music fresh peas make as they ping into a pan. Peas don't play bravura music. Even with as rapid a "sheller'"" as my mother was, there is a delicate one-note-at-a-time sort of music. "Helen, would you like to help me shell the peas for dinner?" Mother would ask, and the two ef us would sit down with the peas on a paper between us, each with a bowl on her lap. An extra special atmosphere of oneness would settle upon us as we commenced to pop open the pods and drop the peas into our pans. I'd eat all of the little underdeveloped ones as they came from the pod, and we would talk. We were shelling peas when Mother told me about the "olden times" when she was a little girl and knew such great men as Brother Maeser, the first President of Brigham Young University. Sdmetimes, she told me of how she met Daddy and fell in love with him and how they were married in the Manti Temple. Sometimes, she talked of the even more ancient time when her mother, my quiet little grandmother, was a lively girl in England, or of how her father crossed the plains with the Gold Rush, but saw Grandma in a Great Salt Lake City kitchen and never completed his journey. We were shelling peas when I asked her, a little awkwardly, perhaps, about how babies come into the world. And she, looking at her fast moving hands instead of into my eager face, because even with her own little girl she was a bit reticent, told me about what it means to be a woman, a wife, a mother. 363 MAY 1966 We were shelling peas when I told her about my sixth grade "crush" and my ninth grade "heartbreak," and still later of my adolescent plans and aspirations. Nowadays mothers say that they can't "get through" to their daughters. Girls who have confided in me say that they wish they could talk with their own mothers. Because of this lack of communication, mothers and daughters, too, go through the days and weeks and years never understanding each other, never really discovering how to make their lives touch. Because they cannot tolerate this distance between them, or because things go wrong, mothers and daughters, too, seek family counselors, psychologists, analyists, psychiatrists. Perhaps all of this expensive counseling is helpful, perhaps, sometimes, it is necessary. But maybe what mothers and daughters need is a quiet hour with three pounds of garden-fresh green peas that need four hands to do the shelling. 14 c. Vegetable oil 14 ¢. Light vinegar 14 c. Sugar dash paprika sprinkle of pepper 1 green pepper (medium sized, finely 1 can tomato soup cut) 1 tsp. Salt (or less for individual taste) 1 onion (size of small egg), minced 1 tsp. Mustard (prepared) 1% c. Finely cut celery Blend in your blender or mixmaster, or shake well in a bottle, all ingredients except the green pepper, onion, and celery. When the other ingredients are blended, toss in the cut green pepper, the minced onion, and the cut celery. Keep in a covered jar in the refrigerator. This wonderful dressing is delicious with lettuce and sliced tomatoes, or lettuce alone. Any combination of salad vegetables is delectable with this dressing. 364 Pc we Ory gg raewtt oot: Suyyywrt Oe: Ismilda England - Expert With Crochet Hook and Quilting Needle Ismilda Thueson Dorchues England, Ogden, Utah, throughout her long life, and during her many years as a homemaker, has found that her handicraft skills have helped to beautify her home, and the homes of her friends and relatives. She is an expert with the crochet hook, and makes many of her own patterns. She is currently busy making exquisite edgings on ~illowslips for her ward bazaar. She has made hundreds of quilts, and the homes of her six children, her grandchildren, and most of her great-grandchildren are adorned with beautifully designed and carefully stitched quilts. Ismilda Thueson Dorchues was married to William England in 1891, and they are said to be one of the longest married couples in the United States. Sister England has been a Relief Society class leader, a visiting teacher for more than fifty years, and she served as Relief Society president of Plain City (Utah) Ward for ten years. She is skilled in all household arts, and, in addition to her handicraft skills, she is noted for her cooking and baking. For Ismilda England, life has been ''busy, buoyant, and beautiful." 365 Wheat for the Wise Chapter 5. Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, has received his permission for the family to participate in Church activities for a trial period of one year. Jennie feels that through her work in teaching a Trekker class in Primary, and the" children's active interest in their assignments, their home is gaining a spirit of love, cooperation, and a willingness to become part of a larger purpose. M@ Jennie tried to make her voice very bright, 'Guess what?" "What?" asked the Trekkers suspiciously. ""We've been asked to be on the program for the Christmas party." The Trekkers, as one man, fell off their chairs and lay about the room groaning. "Enough," Jennie said sternly, "quite, quite enough. Every man in place." Still groaning, they climbed back. They looked at her gloomily, "What do they want us to do?" "'We can choose," said Jennie, still striving for enthusiasm. "Tsn't that wonderful! We can do a play or sing or make a pageant.... We can be amusing or inspiring. It's up to us. What do you want to do?" 366 "Nothing!" they cried in shrill accord. Then they settled down to the business of deciding which would be the most startling innovation ever to grace the stage. Jennie listened with a very real interest. It never failed to fascinate her, the barbarism of the ten-year-old mind. "But we want to make the people happy," she said. "We want to give them something beautiful to remember." "We can't ever please them," Billy said, 'nobody can't please anybody that's over twelve years old." The others nodded in solemn unison. Jennie secretly agreed with them, in part. It was pretty difficult to be male and ten. Little girls had it better, they were born with an instinctive grace and knowledge of the way to the _ Z grown-up heart, but ten-year-old males might as well be equipped with cactus needles. She looked at their doleful faces. She had herself unexpectedly and irrevocably fallen in love with the lot of them. She no longer smelled peanut butter or sneakers, she no more noticed the tumbling and never-ending battle for supremacy. To her, they had become founts of unexpected profundity, isles of laughter, pools of innocence. They fought to sit by ''our teacher," she would have been brokenhearted if they were taken away. "We have to do it," she said to them now, "they expect it of us, and they don't expect us to be too good, that's where we'll have to surprise them." "Let's do the play," Billy suggested. "I know a real dinger... It seems this cowboy." "No," said Jennie firmly. She studied them. '"'Let's try a carol," She said. "How about 'Silent -Night'?" She gave them the key and | they sang. Jennie stopped singing and listened. They were quite | good, really, Their voices, espe- | cially Billy's, were high and true, iclear and appealing. In class, away from the wrath of injured neighbors, they were not afraid to sing out. "Very good." She passed around songbooks and told them the page. "Now... Let's try it / again second verse this time." But the second verse was con- ' Spicuous by the absence of Billy's voice. "Come on, Billy." He tossed the book down. "Don't want to." "But we need your voice." WHEAT FOR THE WISE "It makes my throat ache." "Nonsense... You didn't ache on the first verse." "Well, I'm aching on the second one real hard." She turned to the class. "All right... We'll try it again without Billy." The class pealed forth and, to her bewilderment, Billy joined in again after the first few words. He sang happily, his eyes open and inward turned, all of him listening to the new-found splendor of his own voice. "Third verse." "T'm tired," Billy said. Finally, she put the book down. "Enough for today, we'll go on to our lesson. But I would like all of you to come to my house for practice, every Friday afternoon, until the party. We'll have something delicious to eat, waiting for you." "T can't come," Billy said. "But we especially need you." Jennie meant it. His voice was exceptionally sweet. Billy tucked his chin in his tattered shirt and was silent and mutinous. On the way out of class he reverted to the behavior he had shown when she first came, gagging the other Trekkers, running through the halls. He sat beside her, however, at the closing exercises. Suspicion of the truth had begun to gnaw at Jennie. She held fast to his elbow. "I want to talk to you, Billy." " T gotta run. Mom will be expecting me." "Just one minute or wait Tl drive you home." She scrambled him into the car with her own children. But 367 MAY 1966 when they reached Billy's house she commanded them to wait in the car. She waited for Billy to get out of the car and walked along the sidewalk with him. "Billy? What grade are you in?" "Fifth." 'How is it that you can't read, and you're in the fifth grade?" He grinned impishly, 'I memorize fast." She thought of the speed with which he had committed the second verse to memory. "But Billy! You're brilliant!" He shook his head. "I've got. A block in my head. The doctor told my mother. I can't never read." When Jennie reached home, Rex was already there. He was eating a slice of leftover pumpkin pie and drinking some of the children's chocolate milk. 'Don't quote calories!'' he warned. She told him about Billy. He shrugged. "It happens." He took another drink of the milk. "The headlines awhile back were rich with the tidings that Johnny could not read. I thought they'd gone underground." Jennie went to the telephone. Rex looked up, alarmed. "Are you going to call his teacher?" "No, his mother."' She dialed the number, wondering how to broach so delicate a subject. Rex listened openly and with unfeigned interest. "Mrs. Wentworth, this is Jennie Starr yes, Billy's Primary teacher. Why, thank you! Did he really say that?" "Flattery will get you nowhere," Rex teased. She turned away. "I think Billy is one of the finest boys in our ward. Yes, I do." 368 Mrs. Wentworth went at once — to the heart of the trouble. "You have discovered Billy can't read." Her voice was low and weary. Jennie, taken aback, swallowed, unable to think of anything to say except the obvious. Mrs. Wentworth sighed. "I have four other children and a job. We've had a lot of family trouble. But I did take Billy to the school psychologist... On recommendation from the principal." "What did he say?" "He said Billy had a block. About reading...." WYENNIE looked about her beautiful, shining kitchen. She remembered the run-down little house that was Billy's. She had a swift picture of a determined, overworked mother, who simply had no time. Just that, no time. "Would you let me try, Mrs. Wentworth...?" Rex shook his head and looked at her in wonder and compassion as the telephone conversation lengthened. "She'll let me," Jennie said in triumph, when she hung up the telephone. Rex watched her as she slid wearily into the chair across from him. "Don't you feel crowded inside?" "No. Should I?" "TI wonder sometimes, all the people you take to your bosom. Billy Budd isn't yours." "He's my Trekker." She tilted her chin. "What kind of relationship is that?" She rested her chin on her palm. "It's a teacher-student relationship. That's one of the best kinds."' She leaned across the table. "Did you ever stop to think of all the relationships there are in the world?" "Yes," said Rex quickly. "You told me before."' He regarded her thoughtfully. ""You're really putting a lot of yourself into this class." Was she, then, trying too hard? Doing too much? Was he disappointed... Was she neglecting some other facet of their lives? "Please tell me," she said, "if you would rather I didn't. Remember, you are the important one to me." Rex stood up. "What kind of a heel would I be to stand in the way of Billy Budd, or the others. And besides, have you any idea how beautiful you have grown lately?" In true feminine fashion, Jennie ran to a mirror to evaluate herself. She came back dejectedly, "I can't see any difference. I think I'm getting fat." "T can see the difference,'' Rex said, "and you are not getting fat just different." Billy came twice a week to sit in Jennie's kitchen and study words. He came on Saturday afternoons and Monday "after school. Jennie had armed herself with word cards and books and a larger blackboard. Billy sat gingerly at the kitchen table. He munched the apple she had offered him and was immovable. '"'A is for apple." he snorted, "kid stuff!" He was scornful, but he could not read "apple" on the card she held up. "B is for ball." Billy looked longingly out the window where Lance was rolling snow. "I can't read," he said, WHEAT FOR THE WISE "everybody's tried to make me. I can't. I have a block in my head."' The baby woke up from his nap and shrieked for attention. Jennie left the book for Billy to study and ran upstairs to attend to Johnny's wants. The baby provided for, she knelt and prayed briefly and with fervor. "Let me not be one more failure in Billy's life... One more hope disintegrating under his fingers." SHE picked Johnny up and went downstairs and put him in his play pen in the family room. She stopped and listened to the sound of voices, Sabra's and Billy's. On tiptoe she went down the hall to the kitchen. Sabra, chin in hand, was admiring Billy from the vantage point of the high stool. "... But when you really won the game for us, was when you pitched against Joe Stevens... He could not hit a single ball.'' She continued with childish candor, "'Are you always that wonderful?" "Yeah," said Billy confidently, "sometimes I'm better than that time. ['ll be on the Yanks when I grow up." "You sure will,' said Sabra, adoring the thought with him. "You'll probably be on all the football teams and the baseball teams of the United States of America." "Yeah." said Billy. "I'l] probably be real rich, but I won't change. I'll still be real good to people like you and your mother." Jennie watched as Sabra got down and went over to peer at the cards. "What are these for?" Billy squirmed. "Your mother 369 MAY 1966 wants me to do it... I'm doing it for her." "Oh." Sabra picked up a card. "T'll hold them up for you. The way I learned to read was over and over and over on the same word until it stuck. Some words stick easy and some words stick hard."" She held up a card, 66 A-p-p-l-e." Billy leaned his face on his hands and began to perspire, "A is for apple." Sabra held up another. "B is for ball," Billy said scornfully. Sabra nodded sagely, "What did I tell you! Ball is an easy sticker."' Jennie went quietly into the living room and sat down with a magazine. After some twenty minutes she went back to the kitchen. Billy was on "M is for Mother." She took over the cards and reviewed him. He could read. She told him that. "You really know how.... It's just getting the words through." Billy said, '""Sometimes it's easy and sometimes I forget.' No, she told him silently to herself, I believe that sometimes you are with an adult, who is a reminder of the terrifying world.. And sometimes you are with someone like Sabra, who instinctively knows how to put you in the climate of receptivity. "Enough for one day," she told 370 him. "Come on out," Billy offered largely to Sabra. "Ill show you how fast I can build a snowman." Jennie watched them from the kitchen window. Sabra, the remote, Sabra, the withdrawn, being chased by a boy, having her face washed, screaming with fury and delight. Jennie turned to the task of peeling onions. She pushed back the hair from her forehead with the back of her hand. "People! Youngsters! Who could ever figure them out!" Christmas crowded closer. Jennie had never been so busy all the usual holiday parties, Billy's lessons, the Trekkers' rehearsals ate up the hours. She bought presents in crowded moments. She rehearsed the boys with last-minute knitting cupped under her arm. She taught Billy while she sewed. Sabra's teacher, Miss Myers, came to call. Jennie fed her lemonade and fresh cookies. Miss Myers was a tall woman with a thin, sensitive face and long, bony fingers tipped with unpolished nails. "Sabra is an unusual child, Mrs. Starr." "'We've wondered about her ourselves." Jennie smoothed her skirt. "We don't always understand her." "Her poetry is remarkable." "Poetry?" asked Jennie. "Oh, my, yes." Miss Myers nodded vigorously. "I've never read anything like it." Jennie bent her head. She could not say, I have not seen — Sabra's poetry. She was silent. "T came to ask," said Miss Myers, after a pause, "if I might submit it." "Submit it?" asked Jennie, puzzled. "Yes. 1 would like to very much there is a place that I thought might find room for it." "If you like," said Jennie stiffly. She sat very straight against the back of the chair. Why had not Sabra ever shown her the poems? Why did the child lead so solitary and quiet a life, shunning the parties and finding an apparent delight in solitude. Except for the inexplicable, to Jennie, friendship with Billy Wentworth, Sabra walked alone. Miss Myers rose; relief and anticipation made her face glisten. "Tt's been lovely. You know I feel as though Sabra were my own child. I don't suppose you know that feeling... Not being a teacher." "T know the feeling," said Jennie definitely, but without enthusiasm. She closed the door on Miss Myers and went back to her knitting. It was all very well for her to feel that the Trekkers were her own, still, the thought of Miss Myers claiming Sabra, made the green envy rise like a tide. Not only that, but tears were splashing on the red yarn in her lap. She wiped them away with her fingertips and regarded the moisture curiously. Now why? It was the poetry... The secret of her child that belonged to another woman. Jennie jabbed the needles through the yarn and tossed the ball into the basket. She would have stew tonight. That wouid serve them right! Children! She hadn't intended to tell Rex, but then, when could she ever keep anything from him? WHEAT FOR THE WISE Anyway he guessed. "Stew!" He put the lid down unhappily. "Who is in the doghouse?" "Nobody. We have to economize sometimes." He came to her and lifted her chin. "Give!" he demanded. She told him about Miss Myers and the visit. He released Jennie and went to the windows. He stood with his back to her, but Jennie knew he was as upset as she. "Read the poems... Just get them and read them." "No." "Why not?" WHEN she groped around in her mind for a good reason why not, she could find only one reason, "Brigham Young said a child had as much right to his privacy as a grownup... That they should have a chest to keep their treasures in and a key besides. I guess he meant they had to have a comer of themselves for themselves." Rex turned angrily. "This is my house," he said, ''bring me the poems."' Jennie shook her head. "I can't. You'll have to get them." "T'll order Sabra to bring them to me," he said firmly. "Parents have a right to know what their children are thinking and doing." But that's the letter of the law, not the _ spirit, Jennie thought, it's like going into a secret garden and tearing up the ground to see what your child has planted. Jennie went to Rex and took his arm. It was her fault. Her manner of telling it 'had made Rex angry and confused. "'Let's wait just a little longer." 371 MAY 1966 He did not want to wait. "T'll think about it,'' he said. He went out to help Lora put her sled in the garage, his parting shot, "But no more Brigham Young, if you don't mind." Jennie shivered. The year was going by so swiftly, and she was pushing all the wrong buttons. Christmas, for Jennie, that year, was to be forever remembered by two events. One was the surprising success of the Trekker chorus. Not only were they the hit of the Christmas party, but they were asked to repeat their performance for Sunday night sacrament service and for three other wards during the holidays. Jennie and Rex, hurrying the boys here and there in the two cars, found themselves again and again the center of congratulatory groups. "They make me feel such a heel," said Rex. "And in the first place I had nothing to do with i Jennie hugged him briefly. "But we couldn't even get to these places without you to drive us, and I couldn't handle them, without you to help me." Rex put his arm around her and drove home more slowly. "I still don't see how you did it the voices, I mean." Jennie yawned sleepily. "The voices were theirs... The discipline was only acres of chocolate cake." "Wasn't that bribery?" She snuggled against him. "Is not heaven bribery?" she said quickly, "I really didn't mean that the way it sounded only people think that if you give children something to sweeten the task at hand it's wrong 372... But it's these glimpses I've had of heaven, that make me put my shoulder more firmly to the wheel when lots of times I'd rather not." Rex kissed her. '"What's your heaven, my dear?" She looked at him soberly. "You are my heaven... Laugh if you like... But without you I can't get where I want to go nor take my children with me." But Rex was mutinous, though he understood. THE second thing that happened was Christmas morning. She had gone down early, she and Rex, to be sure, they told each other, that nothing had happened to the gifts overnight. But, in reality, to be there when the first eager footstep was heard. The living room gleamed with tinsel and holly and glittering baubles. The tree towered green and silver and pink. Underneath the laden branches were the overflowing piles of gifts. "Nobody in the world has as many uncles and aunts as we have," Rex said ruefully. "Uncles and aunts are thoroughly legal. At least we can say that we didn't spoil the children by ourselves." Rex leaned down to examine the gifts the children had left. He picked up one package and peered at it. It was flat and very smooth. "A game?" He rattled it under his ear. Jennie came close to look. "It's from Sabra to us. It must be a game, but such a flat game.'' She took it away from him and then smoothed the paper wrapping. "TI think I'll open it." He looked at her reprovingly. "Before any of the rest of them get here?" "Yes." She was shaking with a sudden knowledge. She tore it open. It was a handmade book, cardboard covers holding securely the neatly typed contents. The title of the book was, 'Poems for My Father and Mother," by Sabra Starr. Jennie and Rex looked long at each other until the mist of their tears obscured their sight. "Tt was for uS..- the secret _,." said Rex, "that was why she didn't tell us... OF show us." Jennie said, "I feel sick..- - suppose we had insisted she show us " WHEAT FOR THE WISE He took the book from her and opened the cover. My father comes in from the evening With love in his arms like a basset.. CIn it we are gathered like apples, I and my brothers. My father has stars on his forehead, But he does not know this.. - - He has singing inside him, But he does not know the words. Jennie wept, great bouncing tears. Rex stood grimly in silence for a long time. Then he said sruffly, "You can ask Brigham Young to dinner any time." They were still laughing when the children began their Christmas descent. (To be continued) MEMORIES IN MAY Annie Atkin Tanner | never feel a May b reeze touch my face But | see apple blossoms Pink and fragrant, Leaning on a brown and aging fence. In memory | see 2 pear tree standing With all its pristine whiteness Veiled in moonlight, And on its topmost Singing joyously, As if the whole wor branch a mocking bird id heard 'his song. | never listen to a spring wind Shake the branches by my window, But | see a lilac bush With heart-shaped leaves And purple sprays of blossoms, Drooping in the evening rain. Then all the years between are gone And | am young and home again. 373 @ The spirit of Relief Society — that of service — is exemplified in the faithful performance of the callings of stake and ward Relief Society magazine representatives. The stake Magazine representatives give guidance, direction, and stimulation. The ward Magazine representative may walk through rain, she may carefully pick her way on icy paths, she may return a second and third time to procure a subscription. The service she renders, however, is not confined to one time, twice, or to three times. The service extends itself over a twelve-month period and beyond. The joy and inspiration which a Magazine representative brings are expressed by the following: The Magazine has been a great comfort to me. It also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. No college student should be without the Magazine. I wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from the Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy, and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. I love the warmth and friendship the Magazine brings to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but I value most the spiritual growth the Magazine gives me. Multiply benefits such as these over two hundred thousand Counselor Marianne C. Sharp r times, and one begins to realize the influence that the calling of a Magazine representative carries. The General Board extends to every devoted, faithful Magazine representative its heartfelt thanks and appreciation. The value of The Relief Society Magazine to the Relief Society itself and its members is incalculable. The General Board also thanks stake and ward presidencies for the support they give to their Magazine representatives. Sometimes the difference between one stake having over 100% subscriptions and another under 75% is largely dependent upon the attitude of the respective presidencies. A stake which takes for granted that each ward will be over 100% in subscriptions establishes a warm momentum, and carries along any newcomers in the confident assurance of success. There were 353 stakes on the Honor Roll and 164 stakes had over 100%. There were 19 missions on the Honor Roll and 81 mission districts. For the nineteenth year, South Los Angeles Stake led the Church with 217%, one per cent higher than last year. The North Central States Mission led the missions with 119%. The number of subscriptions has increased by 9,344 over 1964, from 231,933 to 241,277. The General Board extends heartfelt gratitude to everyone who had a part in this excellent increase. 375 Honors for Highest Ratings. Magazine Representative — Dona Osborn 217 South Los Angeles Dona Osborn 166 Huntington Park Mary L. Hebner; 136 Phoenix West Dianne D. Johns WARD South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 347% 133 6Glendele = Coe Magazine Representative — Marcella Carruth 126 = San Jose West Lettie G Stephens 127 ~Florida Vera Williams 126 San DiegoEast Annie C. Tenney 124 Burley RuthS. Lyons 123. Las Vegas Fannie H. Bloxham MISSION North Central States Mission — 119% 121 Long Beach = Erma Halls Mission Magazine Representative — Margaret Abbott MISSIONS ACHIEVING TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES. | — 119 North Central States Margaret Abbott MISSION DISTRICT South Dakota District, North Central States Mission — 184% 114 oo ene B. Aan Magazine Representative — Nora Johnson 112 Alaskan-Canadian Leola G. Durrant 112 California. Ruth Jensen 105 Canadian Elva M. Adamson 105 Western States Carroll Thorpe 99 __—s Eastern Atlantic States C Helen Hatch MISSION BRANCH Barron Branch — 293% 94 Central States Nancy Jones Lake District, North Central States Mission 94 Texas Willetta E. Mansell Magazine Representative — Ina Kuhnley 92 Western Canadian Leah Collett MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 376 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1546 1405 1194 1144 1086 1085'% 1075 1068%% 1034% 1022 South Los Angeles Glendale Mesa Huntington Park Twin Falls 1266 1076 872 792 749 Bonneville Rigby Ensign Nampa San Diego East Central States New England Eastern Atlantic States Northwestern States North Central States TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 659 634 629 628 621 Northern States Canadian Florida Southern States Alaskan-Canadian STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER *& Ammon Zola Ricks *R Bannock Clara C. Christensen * Bonneville Grace B. Larsen R Boston Shirley J. Blomberg R Burley Ruth S. Lyons *R Canoga Park Jeanine D. Hansen *R East Sharon Lucile M. Weenig R Ensign Pearl L. Whitney *R Fullerton Betty Jordan * Huntington Park Mary L. Hebner * Kansas City Venna T. Witbeck *R Las Vegas Fannie H. Bloxham * Las Vegas East Ruth Shumway *R Long Beach Erma Halls R Malad Maude Y. Jensen *R Millcreek Martha J. H. Matern %& Moapa Frances J. Bohler *& Monument Park Ruth B. Parkinson * Mount Olympus Shelley H. Hodson % Mount Rubidoux Mary U. Tiffany %R Napa, LaVaun L. Allen %* North Davis Helen W. Barber * Oakland-Berkeley.. LaVon B. Johnson % Oquirrh ww.. Evelyn Wadsworth %& Palomar Amaretta H. Graves *% Parleys i. Lucille Taylor % Phoenix North Pearl T. Jacobson * Phoenix West Dianne E. Johns *% Pocatello Alice Brandt *%& Pomona Nora Perdue R Rigby Ora Stallings *R Riverdale Aneta H. Olson *% St. Joseph Ruth Marshall *% San Diego East Annie C. Tenney * San Diego South Ethel M. Burningham * San Fernando Noriene W. Kerr * Scottsdale Anna Lee N. Gooch *R Sevier Manetta Hansen *R Sharon Arvilla J. Bradshaw %* South Bear River Meda P. Hupp * South Cottonwood Anna V. L. Lindman * South Idaho Falls Alice Moss * South Los Angeles Dona Osborn * South Salt Lake Hanna Dietrich R UtahFaye Christensen R Wilford Lou Jean Allred MAY 1966 377 217 166 136 133 128 127 126 124 123 121 121 121 121 120 119 119 119 119 119 119 118 South Los Angeles Huntington Park Phoenix West Glendale San Jose West Florida San Diego East Burley Las Vegas Long Beach East Los Angeles Norwalk Las Vegas East Rexburg Rigby Boston Wichita Mojave Cumorah Kansas City Chicago 118 118 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 1 115 Iii 115 114 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 Honor Roll Stakes by Percentages 1965 Santa Rosa North Boise Oakland-Berkeley Palomar San Diego Phoenix North Moapa St. Joseph South Idaho Falis Ammon Pocatello Las Vegas North Nyssa Mt. Rubidoux Cheyenne Modesto San Jose Zion Park Bonneville Fullerton Ensign 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 109 Maricopa Whittier Monument Park Oquirrh East Pomona Twin Falls Great Falls Holladay Sydney North Seattle San Diego South San Joaquin Canoga Park Philadelphia Santa Monica Liberty Woodruff Minidoka Napa North Tooele San Fernando 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 (107 107 107 107 107 Southern Arizona Wells Snowflake. Phoenix Inglewood Alaska East Idaho Falls Mount Olympus Garden Grove South Bear River Idaho Falls Scottsdale Potomac American Falls Granite West Boise North Box Elder Anaheim East Mesa Grant New Jersey 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 Grand Junction Malad Bannock Concord East Long Beach Klamath Shelley Brigham City Los Angeles Utah Alameda Lost River Mesa Big Horn Monterey Bay Milicreek Parleys South Salt Lake Mount Graham Palmyra Boise MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 \ 378 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 Lake View East Sharon Sharon West Utah Bear River Grand Coulee Nampa North Columbia River Oquirrh Tucson Milwaukee Reno Taylor Torrance Franklin Kolob North Pocatello Sevier Toronto Yuma Auckland Mount Logan Portland Casper Monument Park West Box Elder North Davis Taber 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 Mount Ogden Sandy West Covina Denver Granite Park - Murray San Mateo Uvada North Rexburg Springville Pasadena Panguitch Reno North Oneida El Paso Santa Maria Uintah Yellowstone Olympus Roy — San Juan San Leandro New York Edmonton Puget Sound Cassia North Idaho Falls Riverton 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 90 90 90 90 Rose Park Valley View Washington Farr West Tooele Millard Beaver East Ogden Craig West Jordan Butte Covina Logan Roosevelt American River Young Deseret Raft River Denver West South Davis Walnut Creek Riverside Moroni South Blackfoot Hayward Montpelier American Fork Reseda 87 87 87 87 87 87 87 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 85 85 85 85 85 85 85 85 84 84 84 84 Temple View Bear Lake Willamette Butler Lyman Salem San Luis Wasatch Norfolk Salt Lake 'Weiser Brisbane Hillside Kanab Redwood Alberta Tempe Columbus Cottonwood Smithfield Mesa South Alpine Teton Morgan Summit Hattiesburg Orem West Orlando 80 80 80 80 80 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 77 77 77 77 77 76 South Sevier Richland Medford Atlanta Wind River Benson Houston Kaysville Layton Yakima Cincinnati Davis Grantsville Fort Wayne Bountiful North Minnesota Gunnison Portland West Salmon River Clearfield South Ogden Greensboro Washington Terrace Cleveland Glasgow Lake Mead Shreveport Corpus Christi MAY 1966 Union Highland St. Louis Granger Wilford Provo West Sharon West Pocatello East Rigby St. George Riverdale South Cottonwood Taylorsville West Cedar Macon Calgary East Phoenix San Francisco Star Valley Santa Ana Mount Jordan Burbank Cannon Idaho South Summit South Box Elder East Jordan Ashley Blackfoot Timpanogos Sacramento Emigration Portneuf Santa Barbara St. George East Spanish Fork Humboldt Sugar House Weber Heights Nebo Park San Bernardino St. Johns Nevada Pikes Peak Ogden Bountiful East Denver South North Jordan Seattle East Gridley Columbia River Kearns North Virginia Dallas Murray South Seattle Tacoma Chicago South North Weber Palo Alto Missoula Gooding Canyon Rim East Provo Winder North Carbon North Sacramento Bakersfield East Cache C Billings Detroit East Millcreek Granger North Redondo Cache Duchesne Oklahoma Bountiful Tulsa Pioneer Spokane University West Hyrum Lansing Cedar West Weber Santaquin-Tintic Fresno East Raleigh Fresno Parowan Lehi Lethbridge Memphis Bountiful South Corvallis North Sevier Orem East Pocatello Albuquerque London San Luis Obispo Cascade Carbon North Carolina Hunter Lorin Farr North Sanpete Redding Wayne | Ben Lomond — South Sanpete New Orleans Coeur d'Alene Midvale Taylorsville 76 76 75 75 75 74 74 74 73 73 73 72 72 71 69 67 66 66 66 66 65 64 62 62 61 56 49 48 40 34 Garfield South Carolina Vancouver Jackson Ben Lomond South Juarez Kearns Emery Sandy East Blaine Hlinois Melbourne Beaumont Flagstaff Winter Quarters Hamilton Lewiston Tampa Manchester Indianapolis Leicester Miami San Antonio South Carolina Leeds Pearl Harbor Oahu Wellington Hawkes Bay Sunderland MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Enrollment 494 297 812 670 723 417 663 923 568 530 605 312 464 648 356 518 537 558 817 626 673 885 368 735 602 958 320 773 481 756 792 No. 525 321 695 552 613 448 596 847 653 568 607 248 481 574 381 449% 565 517 659 466% 534 938 S20 7a? 635 1085' 381 678 455% 592 658 Stakes on Honor Roil — 1965 Subscriptions Pet. 106 108 86 82 85 107 90 92 115 107 100 80 104 89 107 87 105 93 81 75 79 106 88 100 106 113 119 88 95 78 83 Magazine Representative Rosalie N. Taylor Miriam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Joan Cornwall Behunin Eloise C. Ferguson Erminnie Johnson Mayme J. Baker Norma R. Pezely Zola Ricks Atlas Coker Alice T. Wall Algerene D. Sauls Catherine M. Douglas Ruby Woolsey Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Daisy Gillins Marelda H. Cutler Martha S. Dillon Ariene A. Kupfer Jennette F. Buhler Maud J. DeVore Janet C. Wray Genevieve Creswell Grace B. Larsen Shirley J. Blomberg Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Columbia L. Argyle Colleen C. Poulsen Relief Society Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Florida Fort Wayne Franklin Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Enrollment 760 450 488 569 735 582 410 1072 614 535 743 811 642 680 829 628 645 692 '661 843 442 512 625 945 756 674 287 808 489 443 429 Subscriptions No. 600 452 461 518 EF 2 514 360 949 663 537 793 979 688 600 767 638 JS 615 678 888% 433 506 608 1068% 702 857 225 841 410 372 486 Pct. 79 100 95 91 113 Magazine Representative MAY 1966 Wilma G. Miller Katherina Belmain Margaret Smith Pricilla Anderson Erma E. Cropper Marlene Klaphaak Thelda M. Halstead Venice S. Hill Emma S. Jensen LaVenna S. Clark Marian Y. Morgan Fairie Session Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Jerri Sanders Eva J. Slick Norma Rounds Lucile M. Weenig Verna E. Law Maud T. Bentley Reva B. Holt Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Vera Williams Alice M. Green Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stokes Ruth Johnson Betty Jordan 381 Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Cincinnati Clearfield Cleveland Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christi Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas 483 531 273 697 784 711 599 719 628 586 458 964 784 371 250 422 449 560 391 373 429 431 742 386 323 623 382 516 144 266 550 668 264 367 690 500 565 106 234 86 704 #101 973, 124 616% 87 551 92 631 88 639 102 562 10) 502 110 857 89 641% 82 304 82 259 +3104 412 98 458 102 488 87 447 114 44] 118 385 90 341 79 578 78 298 77 260 81 584 94 325 85 s62 #86107 110. 76 221 83 468 85 614 92 244 92 400 119 645 94 Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth June A. Gardner Ruth S. Lyons Gladys R. Loveless Afton Lassen Whiteworth Norma J. Thompson Lenore Heninger Elsie Duehlmeier Jeanine D. Hansen Ruth Rushforth Gertrude M. McCourt Mabel M. Collins Donna R. Thatcher Emma C. Payne Lottie J. Bladen Irene L. Sevy Hazel Parker Vilda Page Doris H. Grott Barbara V. English Thelma Haslam Nelda M. Center Dorothy L. Bennett Agnes G. Hill Diane S. Sexton M. Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Colleen C. Boman Dawna Wardell Margaret G. Stoner Dorothy Fobes Garden Grove Garfield Glasgow Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville ' Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison Hattiesburg Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Houston Humboldt Hunter Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Jackson Juab Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns North 604 651 108 Ruth W. Hoffman 303 122 1056 687 705 506 478 606 646 697 900 628 381 356 853 441 230 637 623 1119 914 458 277 475 688 814 486 606 668 - 184 545 530 585 735 592 321 94 1405 614% 741 542 493 534% 694 694 965 494 422 276 803 345 194 574 643 959 1013 363 268 385 1144 710% 491 652 723 138 564% 454 693 583 554% 76 77 133 89 105 107 103 88 107 100 107 79 111 78 94 78 84 90. 103 86 111 79 97 81 166 87 101 108 108 75 104 86 119 79 94 Melba Gates Jane McGibbons Edythe M. Fairbanks Hazel Gines Margie Barrus Josephine Prinster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Lythia Street Claudine J. Despain Abbie K. Paskett Glenna MacDonald Ruth Alice Brewer Vera Allred Katie P. Larson Bobbye Anderson Patricia A. Stowell Auline N. Peterson Ruby S. Ockey Arline F. Dean Eileen M. Riedland Aliene N. Bloxham Norma H. Scott Mary L. Hebner Elsie B. Poppleton Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Edith Peru Mamie Cronin Selma Tranter Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Witbeck Adelia H. Rushforth LaVeigh T. Atwood MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 382 Relief Society Klamath Fails Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan London Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Malad Maricopa Medford Memphis Mesa Mesa South Midvale Millard Millcreek Milwaukee Minidoka Enrollment 245 673 635 477 432 620 418 819 1072 740 666 766 630 188 668 859 548 320 563 265 590 752 492 256 1123 629 946 635 592 367 754 Stakes on Hor Subscriptions No. 261 700 488 503 377 761 503% 938 850 619 557 838 579 155 807 696 583 340 488 270 632 845 392 213 1194 534 761 589 627 383 823 Pct. 107 104 77 106 87 123 121 115 79 Magazine Representative Beverly Ellis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter lsora Almstead A. Lucille Ranney Fannie H. Bloxham Ruth Shumway Vaun S. Klingonsmith Bernice S. Earl Rosa Ashton Beulah Manser Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Cissie Simmonds Erma Halls Marva N. Ralph Isabel B. Meilstrup Ethel L. Summers Vera Hutchison Beeda R. Ward Maude Y. Jensen Olive Wallace Marion Sander Reta Berry Julia Kerby Rae Lemmon Martha L. Andersen Leah D. Wood Martha J. H. Matern Carol Ann Jack Lova Taylor ror Roll — 1865 Relief Society North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 324 337 #"&3104 699 698 100 688 610 89 707 "=63We 81 531 584% 110 471 391 83 486 530 109 669 600 90 656 791% 121 517. 600 115 770 = 901 117 779 "=7S8 95 401 352 88 599 590 99 651 644 99 488 512 105 278 309% 111 S16 "@yor 83 741 625 84 402 339 84 731 773 #106 728 653 #90 401 470% 117 485 481 99 774 744 96 560 593 106 402 337 84 897. 891% 99 396 434 110 674 730 108 536 623 116 Magazine Representative Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Zelda B. Winkler Ruby T. Hansen Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Betty S. Johnson Marvel W. Barrow Lois Sunderberg Fay S. Munn LaVon Johnson Edna H. Roghaar Grace G. Cullimore Dorothy P. Swafford Verneta H. Larson Evelyn Wadsworth Alice Haslam Florence B. Gray Grace T. Lowry Burnice Munns Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Ola W. Fox Pearl E. Rohde Lucille Taylor Dott D. Smith Rose N. Simper Pauline G. Bishop Francelle Decker Pearl T. Jacobson MAY 1966 Minnesota Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Modesto Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Olympus Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York Norfolk North Boise North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan 498. "390278 Jeanette Jesse 583 335 683 283 449 856 602 719 396 377 776 602 843 728 529 730 673 1022 985 570 694 442 474 408 618 335 507 481 582 421 345 863 826 631 522 372 813 300 512 770 675 745 335 341 820 609% 874 730 571 835 672 955 1034% 622 667 422 508 329 606 289 596 516 516 343 362 892% 805 595 103 98 94 Betty Jean Stahl Frances J. Bohler Wilda N. Andrejcik Lilly B. Lovejoy Virginia Ballard Jean C. Keetch Ruth B. Parkinson Donna A. Anderson Barbara Thurston Betty A. Cook Flora John Ruth Andrus Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Shelley H. Hodson Mary U. Tiffany Liecel Barthel Lois Madsen Louise S. Tobler LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch i Lu Atkin ' Sharon C. Johnson Cleora Williams Margaret Bruns Lorna H. McPherson Anna T. Scott Sue F. Kapp Lue Twiddell Katherine L. Bailey Sarah M. Williams Helen W. Barber Nellie C. Bate Virginia B. Latimer Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem 478 = 136 Dianne E. Johns 541 573 668 538 548 612 560 599 202 244 405 627 273 569 463 754 740 822 900 506 659 507 570 906 668 782 586. 600 542 615 376 353 621 638 693 420% 533 658 577 587 184 205 328 563 234 594 459 678 885 657 1075 518 697 494% 524 844 657 762 - 548 582 518 713 388 306 115 111 104 78 97 108 103 98 91 84 81 88 102 116 103 Maxine Healey Rura J. Woodall Alice Brandt Nora Perdue Alice D. Shepard Arilie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Emilie M. Packer Deseret Bullock Selena Fern Burbidge Beth K. Thompson Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Darlene J. Johnson Minnie W. Herrin Martha Hendrix Armeda S. Carlsen Helen T. Nichalls Mary Welker | Beulah M. Page Carey Ora Stallings Aneta H. Olson lona N. Whitehead Blanche B. Densley Leora Zupko Beverly L. Lundstrom Dorothy F. Oleson Irene J. Koplin Sylva Schow Graf Ruby Iverson Mae H. Wiltbank Ruth Marshall Margaretha Evans Mary B. Wall MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 384 Relief Society Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield Enrollment 209 757 946 878 430 510 638 750 434 412 500 571 766 486 585 227 690 608 598 244 813 Tz2 418 460 561 382 869° 613 857 425 824 Stakes on Ho Subscriptions No. 163 651% 907 1022 542 561 640 818 441 452 568 728 753 477 507 187 690 616 582 241 890% 850 352 495 524 360 904 646 913 327 700% Pct. 78 86 96 116 126 110 100 109 102 110 114 128 98 98 87 82 100 101 97 99 110 118 84 108 93 94 104 105 107 i, 85 Magazine Representative Sarah Heist Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Carol L. Barrett Kay Calder Annie C. Tenney Ethel M. Burningham Louise R. Neff Noriene W. Carr Rita M. Heaton Mildred E. White Cleone H. Parker Lettie G. Stephens Lea Hurst Elfonda Barker Viola Clarke Kathleen S. Howard Ruby Elwood Abigail S. Millett Cecile H. Richards Edith G. Swonger Helen G. Hanson Grace M. Gosling Ella H. Sandstrom Anna Lee N. Gooch Dorothy C. Newman Erma Kenyon Manetta Hansen Arvilla J. Bradshaw June L. Walton Bertie F. Sentilles Ruby J. Thornley =>, an aS eyte pe ss i 1665 % Relief Society Sydney Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Torrance Toronto Tucson Tulsa ' Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weber State College Enrollment 418 425 524 701 490 297 671 554 1014 569 606 572 651 302 868 510 630 769 622 320 747 357 348 498 815 681 461 359 720 693 10 Subscriptions No. 463 439 489 732 394 304 583 525 989 528% 632 595 681 265 1086 503 650% 673 661% 320 596 268 326 451% 704 634 357 Pet. 111 103 93 104 80 102 87 95 98 93 104 104 105 88 111 99 103 88 106 100 93 75 94 91 86 93 77 81 87 97 80 Magazine Representative Catherine Jean Jeffree Betty M. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Gloria O. Torres Ruby Hogan Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ivy R. Higdon Ruth Florence Rennie Myrna J. Goodman Virginia R. Jacobson La Vella Pace Erma B. Taylor MarJean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Faye Christensen Mae Hall Grace R. Engh Edna M. Mitchell Ethel T. Sweet Beverly Tichenor Emily Conrad Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodiliffe Vonda Williams Gonda DeBoer Alma M. Peterson Eunice Sagendors MAY 1966 385 Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central States Cumorah East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Florida Gulf States 855 931% 109 Lucilia S. Peterson 745 838 466 251 Joo 776 561 714 646 486 843 464 438 428 746 569 783 717 932 405 Enrollment 555 344 605 598 409 1487 880 775 256 803 758 469 191 607 704% 648 1546 503 514 680 371 442 467 723 498 779 728 900% 342 Subscriptions No. 621 384 634 564 467 1266 872 629 226 108 Meda P. Hupp 91 Agnes D. Cox 101 Nila J. Stucki 76 "Vivian Black 102 Anna V. L. Lindman 91 Naomi B. Stanbridge 116 Alice Moss 217 Dona Osborn 78 Stella Beutler 106 Hannah Dietrich 81 Iris D. Anderson 80 Betty G. Hansen 101 Martha A. Lambert 109 Maud Post 97 Dora L. Otten 88 Beulah Edwards 100 Gwen A. Tippetts 102 Leta Coffman 97 Nellie J. Ehlers 84 Clara C. Copley Magazine Representative Pct. E P 112 Leola G. Durant 112 Ruth Jensen 105 Elva M. Adamson 94 Nancy Jones. 114 Lorraine B. Carlson 85 Nyla H. Morgan 99 Helen Hatch 81 Moneta Oates 88 Beatrice D. Pinkston Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States Enrollment 1207 632 719 863 667 291 568 307 419 578 988% 502% 781% 660 630 598 817 643 280 719% 511 174 594 785 260 891 626 387 465 86 109 107 100 92 103 103 105 112 119 103 87 80 89 109 79 99 92 104 113 Subscriptions No. 1076 749 659 792 579 272 513 282 439 Pct. 89 119 92 92 87 94 90 92 105 a Roma L. Alder Gertrude S. Fullmer Clea R. Nelson Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta K. Holmes Ramona A. Davis Beth W. Baker Beulah Mickel M. Marcella Meador LouJean Allred Myrtle Powell Myrl Bray Ruth L. Perkins Gladys Groll LaVern G. Jackson Leola Beddes Faye J. Glach Effie Nowland Isabel DeMille Magazine Representative Naomi B. Cranney Margaret Abbott Ira Mae C. Palmer Eva Mertlick Florence M. Carthew Willetta E. Mansell Lois Montayue Leah Collett Carrell N. Thorpe _ MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 LOO | - How beautiful upon the hills are shown Time of Farewell Leora Larsen Brenda Jean wasn't even a year old when her mother left her with me for two weeks. For a long time afterward, when she came with her parents to visit me, and it was time to go, her tears were copious. She refused to kiss me goodbye because she hated to go. Then, tonight I saw her waving and smiling, as their car drove away. Such a smile! Almost as if she knew her return would be soon and home was a fine place to be going. Little girl, tonight you taught me something. Life is like this. We approach it with quiet fear, Learn that it is wondrous good and, when all its Splendor is yet warm, we must learn to smile and Wave goodbye. If our cry is loud, if fear for The end makes us frantic, we must still learn to Smile and wave goodbye. JS BLOSSOMTIME ~~ Eva Willes Wangsgaard WN TMTM, Along the highway, mile on mile of these Rich hanging gardens flaunt their coral bloom; Pink clouds of fragrance over russet trees, Blue skies for contrast, all the hills for room. Once these were desert hills where rabbitbrush And greasewood held their stubborn, bitter way, In flowering gold or gray-green in the hush JOf snow's receding from the lengthening day. 4 Great was the faith of men who set trees here Channeled the life-rich silver of the streams, Visioned a harvest in some future year, Joyed in the challenge to their strength and dreams. Their footprints cast in petal, fruit, and stone. Li. Qa Sa (wr, \ FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Nineteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present | Music for Many Occasions Front row: At the left, Judy Bennett, accompanist; fourth from the left, Marie Armitage, President, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; at the right, Hazel Christiansen, chorister. Second row: Fourth from the left, Joyce Hanks, social science class leader; sixth from the left, Alice Ingebretsen, work meeting leader; at the right, Eleda Stacy, Work Counselor. Third row: At the left, Irene Yarger, Secretary-Treasurer, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; Erma Thornock, Education Counselor; fifth from the left, Hazel Bolingbroke, visiting teacher message leader; at the right, Marilyn Armstrong, theology class leader. Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Pocatello Nineteenth Ward have been most outstanding in their chorus activities. They have an enrollment of eighty-three. Recently, when I attended the literature meeting, there were fifty-three sisters in attendance. They have two nurseries, with fifteen or more in each section. The Singing Mothers practice each Thursday from nine to ten in the morning, at which time Relief Society meetings start. They sing for sacrament meetings and special programs and present concerts regularly for the two rest homes in Pocatello. They have also presented music for meetings in other wards, and for funerals. They also sing each year for the stake preparation meeting. All the members of the presidency are Singing Mothers, as are most of the class leaders." Toe a 387 MAY 1966 San Diego East Stake (California) Magazine Representatives Honored at a Luncheon February 4, 1966 Left to right: Annie Tenney, stake Magazine representative; Helen Stevens, Lakeside Ward; Wilda Fowles, LaMesa Ward; Ida Brown, LaMesa Second Ward; Hannah Brown, El Cajon Third Ward; Clara Mosteller, El Cajon Second Ward; Bettey Miller, called as stake Magazine representative to replace Sister Tenney. Lydia Wilkensen, El Cajon Ward, was not present at the time the picture was taken. Reha Gale, President, San Diego East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a luncheon honoring the ward Magazine representatives, following the leadership meeting. The theme of the luncheon was "The Magazine—Heart of Relief Society.' The tables were beautifully decorated with red hearts and roses, with the Magazine as center of each heart. "A lovely afternoon was spent with the stake board, the ward presidents, and ward Magazine representives. Each of the Magazine representatives was presented with a lovely handmade handkerchief for selling over 100 per cent subscriptions in each ward. Each sister accepted the challenge to place "The Heart of Relief Society' in each home." South Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert December 4, 1965 Elizabeth M. Perry, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society, reports: "'Approximately 100 singers participated in this concert. Our chapel was beautifully decorated with Christmas flowers. The sisters made a lovely picture with their white blouses, black skirts, and red Christmas corsages. This was our first Singing Mothers concert, with twelve out of fourteen wards and branches participating. Our sisters traveled many miles and spent many hours practicing. We were delighted with the response to this concert, and feel that it was well worth the effort. The officers of South Carolina Stake Relief Society are: President Elizabeth M. Perry, First Counselor Lottie Joyner, Second Counselor Vern Fagan, and Secretary-Treasurer Norma Grice." Glaaate Stake (California) Yuletide Festival December 17, 1965 Left to right, stake leaders: Edythe Fairbanks, Magazine representative, as "Mrs. Santa"; Florence Dalton, Work Counselor; Virgie Fischbeck, theology class leader. Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our 'Mrs. Santa's Kitchen,' featuring 'The Best Cooks This Side of Heaven,' thrilled all those who attended the Glendale Stake Yuletide Festival. ""Members and nonmembers were delighted with displays and demonstrations of Christmas decorations. An excellent original play 'Our Gift to God,' written by Education Counselor Leah Frandsen, with the theme of Family Night, climaxed a most outstanding evening. LaCanada Ward choir furnished beautiful Christmas music. "This most successful fund-raising event was made possible by the combined efforts of the members of the stake board, in addition to the sisters in the picture: Ruth Gough, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Scott, work meeting leader; Joyce Swainston, chorister; Ola Davis, organist; Jessie Schade, visiting teacher message leader; Jody Acton, social science class leader; and Barbara Moffat, literature class leader."' 388 MAY 1966 North British Mission, Grimsby District Presidency Christmas Party November 27, 1965 Left to right: Elizabeth Hickman, President, Grimsby District Relief Society; Blanche E. Payne, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society; Patricia Rogers, First Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Ann Eley, Secretary-Treasurer, North British Mission Relief Society; Stephanie Hill, District Secretary-Treasurer; Norma Sepp, Mission Assistant; Betty Browne, Second Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Marjorie R. Jenner, Second Counselor, North British Mission Relief Society. Alice A. Hughes, President of the North British Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Grimsby District Relief Society Presidency held a Christmas party, to which all the sisters of the district, and their husbands, were invited. This was one of the first large social gatherings to be held in the beautiful new Scunthorpe chapel. Many investigators and inactive members participated. It was a spiritual and enjoyable evening. There were party games, old-time and modern dancing. After supper, each sister received a small gift presented by 'Father Christmas' from his sleigh. The evening's entertainment ended with three short plays presented by a local dramatic society." Central British Mission, Worcester District Relief Society Song Festival February 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: Olive Corbin, Second Counselor; Audrey Wharrad, First Counselor; Gwendalyn Smart, chorister; Edna Byrne, President. Back row, standing, at the left: Gillian Brown-Lee, Secretary-Treasurer. Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, reports: '"'All the sisters wore colorful 'old-time' costumes, as they presented a beautiful song festival with 'Testimonies of Joy,' as the theme for the occasion. The composers and authors of Church music and words were brought back to life by the enactment of one outstanding feature taken from each individual life. At the close of the festival, two young flower girls handed a bouquet to the chorister, and a Victorian Posy to the pianist, and every sister in the hall was presented with a spray." Provo Stake (Utah) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting January 21, 1966 Front row, left to right: Deseret Bullock, stake Magazine representative; Kathrine Smith, Seventh Ward representative; Verena Decker, President, Seventh Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right, Magazine representatives: Bonnie Wright, Sixteenth Ward; Viola Henderson, Fifth Ward; Fanny Harrison, First Ward; Elsie Moffitt, Manavu Ward; Orrissia Liddiard, Tenth Ward. Jane M. Call, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Provo Stake was organized in February 1938. Since that time the Provo Stake Relief Society has been on the Magazine Honor Roll every year except one. This year the stake Relief Society offered a lovely floral arrangement to the ward which could get the most new subscriptions to the Magazine, from October 1965 to January 1966. The floral arrangement was made at a leadership meeting in the work department and displayed for all the sisters to see. "On January 21, 1966, at leadership meeting, all of the Magazine representatives were honored for their outstanding work. Due to the drive, there was a total of 154 new subscriptions to the Magazine. The floral arrangement was presented to the Seventh Ward for having forty-three new subscriptions. Kathrine Smith, the Magazine representative for the Seventh Ward, was eighty years old in February 1966. She has recently learned how to knit, so that she will have something to do in her old age." 390 * es a oe The Man on the Street Maria A. Zickbauer @The man stood on the street. Hour after hour, the people passed by | going in different directions. The young with zest, and the old with care. Some aspired laboriously to the heights—others rushed along carefree. He spoke to each with outstretched hand, he displayed the precious gift to the quick glances of the people, to whom he offered the small valuable, with a smile on his face. Most of them had hardly time to glance at him or at his offer. All were very much in a hurry to arrive some place; many threw him halting and despondent looks. Every once in awhile one would come to stop; perhaps, only in order to recover his breath, and to risk a cautious glimpse. Several asked the price. One—where one could buy this wonderful work. It was a small watch, in extraordinarily fine setting. It appeared to be made from choice material. The answer was always the same: "It is a present for you— it cannot be bought. Take it and guard it carefully." Distrust was predominant. Yes, even malicious accusations. Evening came, and the man still had his gift—which no one was willing to accept. 392 : I was also on a street and very much like the others. I was in a hurry, _despondent and restless. Hunting for happiness; searching for peace. I was also accosted by a quiet voice and I glanced at the outstretched hand, but I was not conscious of the present. A friendly smile in the eyes "appeared to pierce my searching heart. Where had I known this singular feeling. Where had I heard this voice before? "Purchase gold from me for nothing!" Perhaps I did not want to decline or offend that friendly smile, but before I knew what had transpired, the precious gift was in my hands. My fearful questions '""Where and how can I hide it with care?' "Place it in thy heart." Then I was alone, but not really alone! Never again! Soon I was to experience the manner of the gold that I had obtained | through obedience. It was and is a new light in my eyes, a sweet melody to _ my ear, knowledge and wisdom to my thoughts. Joy and peace to my heart; health to my body, the precious decoration to the children of God—the Good News. I recognized the giver—the Great Master and knew that he was the goal of my constant search and yearning. Praise be to his love! Thanks to the man on the street. TO MOTHER Leone O. Jacobs | love you, Mother dear, more than | have before, Now that | am older, more mature. | see your noble character in clearer light today, The more, sad truth, since you have slipped away. You taught me faith, and all my doubts erased, You taught me work, its dignity and grace. You taught me gratitude for common things, The satisfaction willing service brings. | understand you, Mother dear, more than | have before, Traveling the selfsame road as you in days of yore. | too my progeny have reared, | know the problems and the pitfalls that you feared. Thank you, dear God, for Mother, For all she represents, And would that | might be to mine Of equal consequence. 393 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Margaret P. Childs Chairman, Clothing and Textiles Department Brigham Young University CLOTHING CARE ADDS TO WEAR Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1966 Southern Hemisphere: January 1967 Objective: To show how to extend wear-life of clothing INTRODUCTION The sense of well-being and adequacy which homemakers enjoy when they can provide clean and appropriate clothing for each member of the family to wear in all of their various activities, is well worth striving for. Unfortunately, many of us never reach that goal. In the mistaken idea that more clothes are needed, we tend to acquire an ever-increasing wardrobe and, thereby, further complicate the problem. An oversupply of clothes takes a toll of time, money, and energy for handling, care, and storage out of all proportion to its usefulness. Wise choice of each wardrobe item, then, is the first step in clothing care. But for the purpose 394 by systematic, good care. Of this discussion, we are concerned with. The actual "care techniques" which extend the wear-life of clothing. The working tools of clothing care are a systematic routine, some good technical skills, and a basic understanding of the factors involved in clothing care. When the laundry or ironing piles up or clothes are not wearable because a seam has to be restitched or a strap mended, we might as well not own the clothes. They are only useful when they are in wearable condition. Mother should not try to do all the work herself and deprive the family of a chance to learn and to share the work. Children appreciate their possessions more ~_s 4 when they are responsible for them. LAUNDERING The most effective laundry procedures, regardless of the kind of equipment used, will be based upon these factors: 1. Pre-spot bad soil and stains. 2. Sort clothes for color, soil, and fiber content. Wash dark and light colors separately. Do not wash badly soiled articles with lightly soiled ones. Never wash white synthetics with colored clothes. 3. Pre-soak soiled clothing in cool water for 10 to 15 minutes to loosen and float away some of the soil that hot water would set in the clothes. Some soap or detergent may be added to make the soak period more effective. A chlorine bleach, in measured amounts, will aid soil, stain and bacteria removal. Do not overbleach. 4. Wash in very hot (soft or conditioned) water to which a proper amount of soap or detergent has been added. Prolonged washing may damage fabric, and a too-short period of agitation will not remove all the soil. Too much or too little soap is equally ineffective. 5. Rinse thoroughly to remove all detergent, bleach, and remaining soil. Use fabric softeners only occasionally. Starch clothes that require body, or that will resist soiling better when they are smoother or stiffer. 6. Dry in sunlight or dry in tumble dryers to the just-dry state, as overdrying damages fabrics. Some colors, and all nylons, silks, and wools, are best dried out of sunlight which will deteriorate them. The _ brighteners used in many detergents on the market to brighten colors and whiten whites also deteriorate and become ineffective in sunlight. However, sunlight has a bleaching and sanitizing effect. Cottons smell fresher when sun-dried. Heat-sensitive fibers and wash-wear cottons are permanently wrinkled by high temperature and overdrying. Read labels on clothing for instructions on proper care. Freezing helps bleach cotton, but frozen fabrics are easily damaged by handling. Boiling also bleaches, but weakLESSON DEPARTMENT ens fabrics, and high temperatures speed the damage of bleaches and strong soaps. IRONING Good ironing requires: 1. Uniform dampening and ironing within twelve hours after dampening. Mildew forms quickly in warm temperatures and even when the odor and color can be removed, mildew damage is permanent. 2. Iron with temperature adjusted to the fabric and fabric finish. Scorch is permanent damage, even when the color is bleached away. 3. A well-padded, clean, smooth ironing surface on a board of comfortable height. Soiled ironing surfaces give up scorch and soil to damp clean fabrics. 4, Skill in the use of the iron. Ironing with fabric grain, and ironing the underside of thick areas first are helpful techniques. 5. Careful folding or hanging of ironed garments. PRESSING To press successfully: 1. Thoroughly brush away lint and dirt which damage color and fiber. 2. Choose the right press cloth— tissue paper for sheer fabrics, wool or canvas for woolens and worsteds. Always use the same side down. 3. Dampen uniformly with a sponge avoiding excess moisture. 4. Suit the iron temperature to the fabric. 5. Press, do not iron. Steam alone will relax most wrinkles which can then be brushed away or pressed with the hand. 6. Shape different areas with rolled towels, - press cushions, or sleeve boards. SPOTTING Some types of soil permanently bond to fabrics if not removed immediately. In general, wash fabrics can be treated by home methods, and dry-clean fabrics are best cleaned by professional cleaners, but there are exceptions. 395 MAY 1966 It is best not to try to remove anything from non-washable fabrics that will not come out with clear cool water. Clothes should be cleaned before becoming too badly soiled. Tell the cleaner what caused the spots and what you did, if anything, to remove them. For wash fabrics, pre-treat blood, egg, meat, catsup, ink, and similar stains with cool water. Rub detergent into soil caused by body oils, grass, tar, cosmetics, oil, greasy foods, and perspiration. Then rinse with clear water. Harden gum and candle wax with ice and pick off the fabric. Pour boiling water from a_height (about elbow height) through fruit juice stains. Grass and ballpoint pen ink can be removed by soaking in alcohol, but it may damage colors. A helpful bulletin for home use is the U. S. Department of Agriculture bulletin "Removing Spots and Stains from Fabrics."' (Suggest your own national government sources.) STORAGE Seasonal clothes should be stored when not in use to protect from dust, mildew, strong light, and insects. Moth and carpet beetles feed on wool, silk, hair, and feathers. While cedar chests and moth balls help some, the best insurance is airtight storage of thoroughly cleaned and brushed garments. Silver fish eat rayons and other cellulose fibers. These insects breed in damp cracks and sometimes require fumigation to rid a home from their damage. Dust destroys colors and wears fibers. Store clothes where they cannot collect dust. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Techniques described herein could well be demonstrated, such as: Laundering helps, correct ironing procedures, pressing a man's or woman's suit, spotting techniques for various fabrics, or storage facilities. Some demonstrations of the care of the new "wash and wear" fabrics may also be helpful. FROM THE SEA TO THE SHELL Bernice Ames The two-minded sea Advances, retreats Breaks on shore to run whole again. Mollusks in the shifting green hammock Away in currents that fling them Against rock Opening a way for escape. Empty periwinkle and moon shell, Empty scallop and cowry Tumble in the lottery of water Rolled to the beach, Holding only an echo of life Given And taken By the sea. 396 Plan a Murdock Tour Now! The following personally-escorted, all-expense-paid tours all include the highest quality carriers and accommodations at surprisingly low cost: 1 L. D. S. Temples Tour 11 days Leaves April 18th (Oakland, L. A., St. George, Manti) 2 Hawaii Tour 12 days Leaves May 14th 3 European Highlights 21 days Leaves June 9th 4 Temples & Lake Louise 12 days (bus) Leaves July 11th (Cardston, Idaho, Logan) 5 Scandinavian Vikings Tour 21 days Leaves July 12th 6 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 15th 7 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 8 days (air) Leaves July 26th 8 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 29th 9 Yellowstone, Passion Play Mt. Rushmore 8 days Leaves August 13th 10 Hawaii Tour 10 days Leaves September 10th SSOHSOSHSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSesSeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseede Murdock Travel Inc., 14 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send information on tour no. MURDOCK TRAVEL R. S. May '66 SOSHSSHOSHSSHSSSHSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSHSHSHSSSSSSSSSSHSEOSSESOSSESOELE SEASONAL Gayla Ann Larsen Spring is your smile, Summer, your kiss, Autumn, your silence; Winter is parting like this. SISTER-TALK Rowena Jensen Bills The little things we talk about— Bits of this and that, How charming was the poem she read And color of her hat, The dinner menu, the baby's teeth, And did the headache dast? Superficial gaieties P Of future and of past.. Yet deep affection, trusting love, In every carefree phrase. Sister-talk, friendship-talk, Fulfillment of joyous days. 397 SUNLIT CANYON Ethel Jacobson Dazzle lies On leaf and stream— A dancing brilliance, A quicksilver gleam. Wherever the live oak Canopy parts, The sun's massed archers Loose their darts To splinter on eddy, Stone, and stem, Making a shattered Mirror of them, Reflecting each other Diamond-bright, A fluid, Shimmering bedight Landscape less of land Than light. WORDS Armoral Kent Words are such hasty things, Yet they may mean All that can ever be, All that has been. Words are such little things, Yet they may make Destinies totter, Centuries shake. Words are so uniform, Yet they may be Anything, everything, To you and me. COOK ELEC? RIC 4e3 Pots and pans stay "'white glove'' clean Hf its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 21 New England—Canadian Fall Tour September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 398 Tour Europe first class for less than *17 a day! A 22-day "Priceless" escorted tour of 11 countries costs as little as $368. Includes first-class hotels, most meals, air-conditioned motor coaches, sightseeing. Murdock Travel, Inc. 14 South Main St. / Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 328-3161 Gentlemen: Please send me full particulars on your MURDOCK _ Address __ TRAVEL; City BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Soclety Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 one 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 DESERET [RPEws PRESS — $17-a-day tour of Europe. __State R. S. May '66° weeeeeoeoonoeeeeeeevneenveeenod ___Zip HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways CANADIAN AND NEW ENGLAND STATES TOUR September eae ALASKA PAGEANT TOURS Ask us about our European Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 - 467-5763 - 485-2444 399 102 96 a2 Mrs. Mary Adelia Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Miller Chapman San Francisco, California Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Julia Angell Knudsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Loa, Utah Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb St. Hubert Quebec, Canada Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menan, Idaho Mrs. Lucy Sharp Parker Richards Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Henrietta Watson Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Bakersfield, California Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie =. Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Cervilla Winget Magleby Monroe, Utah Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo, California Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Magrath Alberta, Canada Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen Logan, Utah Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Logan, Utah Mrs. Emma Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah Mrs Elizabeth Scott Lyman Parowan, Utah Mrs. Rebecca A. Carson Miller Parowan, Utah Mrs. Stena Sorensen Anderson Central, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ottelia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Miranda Kelley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Inza Houtz Russon Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ninadell Klepper Shelby, Montana Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Jean Coleman Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Sarah Morse Williams Renton, Washington Mrs. Ellen Susanna Jorgensen Christensen Provo, Utah 4 Mrs. Elizabeth Josephine Bawden Morgan Logan, Utah Mrs. Ellen Swenson Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Phoebe Tenny Gardner Tucson, Arizona —-i ame, Especially recommended for wives and mothers OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock $4.50 "'Today's Family'' Editor has produced a delightful book that is more than just a collection of recipes it is a daily guide to happier more effective service as a wife and mother. WITH SUGAR 'N SPICE by Daryl V. Hoole and Donette V. Ockey $3.95 Helpful supplement to enhance Family Home Evenings. Flip charts and lesson-stories for children that are memorable and effective. Ee SS SS ——— ee SF I Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA SS —— eS SSHHHOHSHSHSHSHSHSHSHSSHSHSHSSHSHSHHHSHHHSHSHHSSHSHSHSHHSHSHSHHSHSHHSHHHSHSHHSSHHSHSHHHHHHHOHHHHHHHSOHHOHSEOS ORDER NOW Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. 84111 Please send me copies of OF FOOD AND THOUGHT $4.00 each Please send me copies of SUGAR 'N SPICE $3.95 each PM oan cc cee tees eee NN ee nnn ce cece cece ee eeceeeeee State Enclosed is a check/money order for the total cost of my re OR, | have an account..., bill me. Residents of Utah will include 3Y2% tax. Residents of Calif. Who order through the Deseret Book Store at 777 South Main in Orange should add 4% Calif. Tax. May Relief Society 66 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah It toc 5) years to build A man-made mountain of pure food energy Since starting operations at Lehi, Utah, in 1891, U and I Sugar factories in Utah, Idaho, Washington, and other western states have produced a 16-billion-pound mountain of pure U and I Sugar! Hard to comprehend? Then try it this way: that's enough sugar to provide a five-pound bag for every man, woman, and child on the earth — all three billion of them! During this same seventy-five years, U and I Sugar has built an industry valued totally in all operating areas at approximately eighty million dollars. It provides a stable cash crop for farmers, and a multi-million-dollar annual local labor payroll. Each year U and I purchases in each operating area millions of dollars' worth of goods and services (ranging from fuel coke and limerock to building materials and office supplies) and pays more millions of dollars for transportation services and taxes (which help build schools and highways and support various government services). Nature's pure food energy, sugar gives you the vitalit, you need to stay active helps you burn up calories instead of storing them as fat. Its only aftertaste is the energy you feel. U and I Sugar is the West's source of this pure food energy It's your home sugar — locally grown and refined. Doesn't it war waren? Make sense to always buy U and I