DECEMBER 1966 Volume 53 Number 12 BEYOND JUDAEA'S BOUNDARIES Vesta P. Crawford " for we have come to worship him." Across the eastern land, it lies, the Magian path; Lost to memory, in midnight and in dawn; The shadows of the Wise Men vanished, Their footsteps in the sand forever gone. Unmarked upon the rocks, unknown to realm and sphere, Their star-bright journey and their marveling; And all the storied altars where they passed, The towers broken and the pillared cities lost. And yet the ancient quest, forever new returning, Shall mark a pathway for this present year, As eagerly we seek the lumined way of old, Beyond the wilderness, beyond the path of stone— As seekers for the Prince of David's house, Rejoicing in the promise, nor longer walk alone. The light that glowed upon the fallen citadels, Heralding the journey and the manger birth, Has shed its radiance on eternal hills And as a timeless star illumines all the earth. Oh, glorious light among the galaxies, Tell the men of earth—take his word to them— Come, let us worship altogether Within the gates of Bethlehem! The Cover: (Detail from 'Adoration of the Shepherds,'' by Murillo Transparency by Three Lions; Inc. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret New Press Frontispiece: M§''Forever New Returning," Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts. Art Layout: §§ Dick Scopes INustrations: Bi Mary Scopes — a it makes me happy to read and see all kinds of things that are made by the sisters from different places—all the interesting articles in the Magazine. | am Navajo from Gallup, New Mexico, Toh-la-Kai Trading Post. We have two little girls, one eight months and the other four years old—such a wonderful family. Now | am moving to another place. Mrs. Stella Mae Platero Fort Worth, Texas How proud we are in Afghanistan to see our branch on the list of Relief Society organizations in the June issue of the Magazine. Though halfway around the world, and though our membership varies with the constant comings and goings of Government personnel, we are grateful for the lessons and for the beautiful Magazine that brings them to us. Leah Y. Bryson USAID/TB Afghanistan Our family appreciated the little story "Bird Dramas" written by Rose A. Openshaw, in the September issue of the Magazine. It expressed in an in: formative way the many interesting things that go on around us when we pause to observe. We thought it was especially well written and delightfully descriptive. The Potts Family Mesa, Arizona What a masterpiece! It is a masterpiece—the birthday congratulations "The Testimony of a Prophet,'' which you dear Relief Society officers have expressed in behalf of every member. Thank you sincerely for saying it for me. In addition, it is my testimony that not only is he a prophet, but President McKay is a great leader inspired of God for the present day. Lilly Engle Huntington, Utah 882 | have enjoyed The Relief Society azine for years in English, and now we have it in Spanish, | know the many more sisters will be blessed. Had in our home a few months < a young girl who was recuperating f surgery, and who had been stud the gospel with our Spanish-spez missionaries. She read The Relief § ciety Magazine from cover to cover 2 then expressed a desire to become member of Relief Society. She was E tized into the Church at the end of week. We can already see the fruit the Magazine in Spanish. Louisa Ont Houston, T: in the August Relief Society Magazi | was particularly impressed with article '"'Are We Seekers?'"' by H Hinckley Jones, perhaps because know the author, having had the p ilege of being her student for past three years. This brilliant, m talented, and delightful woman is fine example of one who cons seeks. Then, besides imparting to she teaches, both in Church class and at Pasadena City College, the wisdom and understanding she has found, she also stimulates others to seek, and guides them in their quest. Lael J. Li Monterey Park, California Since the missionaries have provic me with a monthly copy of The Re Society Magazine, | have become even more aware that the Church provides for growth in important aspects of b this mortal life and in our eternal life. | will marry a fine Latter-day Saint in a few months, and so | particula enjoy the timely household hints t experienced mothers in the Church e sharing with the other sisters. Stories have inspired me at the time they have helped me to pra using the English language. Marion C Diisseldorf, 

The Relief Society wagazine Volume 53 December 1966 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 884 Keeping the Commandments of Our Eternal Father Joseph Fielding Smith 890 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda P. Young 904 The Breath of Life Fiction 892 Across the River Dorothy Clapp Robinson 898 A Star's Slim Light Alice Morrey Bailey 908 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 6 Rosa Lee Lloyd 932 A Gift for My Love Myrtle Stowell Call General Features 882 From Near and Far 905 Woman's Sphere Ramona W.. Cannon 906 Editorial: The 136th Semi-Annual Church Conference 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Pictures Made From Christmas Cards, Anna Peck 914; Keep the Christmas Cards, Helen M. Peterson 915; Tin-Can Christmas Tree, Gertrude and Gail Terry 916; A Heritage of Danish Cookery, Dorothy J. Roberts 917; Winter Wonderland in Fullerton Stake, 918; Beaded Packages, Joy N. Hulme 920; El Paso Stake Relief Society Remembers Christmas with "The Perfect Gift," 922; The Home Decorated with a Christmas Welcome, 924; The Wise and Foolish Virgins, William Blake 928; Commentary on Painting, Floyd E. Breinholt 929; Quilting Is a Pleasure, 934. Lesson Department 935 Spiritual Living... Discipleship Roy W. Doxey 941 Visiting Teacher Message "For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness " Alice Colton Smith 942 Homemaking Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Celestia J. Taylor 944 Social Relations... "Follow Thou Me" Alberta H. Christensen 951 Cultural Refinement Diligence Ennobles Work Robert K. Thomas Poetry 881 Beyond Judza's Boundaries Vesta P. Crawford Lullaby For Jesus, Mabel Jones Gabbott 888; Flake and Star, Ethel Jacobson 891; Christmas Eve, Christie Lund Coles 904; For a New Home, Iris W. Schow 931; How Far? Rowena Jensen Bills 931; Returning, Eva Willes Wangsgaard 940; Only One Song, Alda L. Brown 950; Part of the Sequence, Bertha A. Kleinman 955; Remembering Faith, Enola Chamberlin 958; Late Born, Lael W. Hill 959. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c - a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be sup-' plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

President Joseph Fielding Smith Of The First Presidency XXXXX KAAA ti ve mitt JUUUL Hdd JUUU heeping the Commandments of Qur Eternal Father [ Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] a My dear sisters, it is a privilege for me to speak to you at this conference, and I appreciate President McKay assigning me to this session. This is certainly a wonderful sight to think that you good sisters have come from all parts of the world to attend this conference. I congratulate you for your faith and your integrity and I want to say to you, we pray for you constantly. You are doing a wonderful work, and the Prophet certainly was inspired by the Spirit of the Lord to have such an organization as the Relief Society given to the Church. You have a great work to perform. We want you to know that the work you are performing BB4 is fully appreciated by the brethren of the Authorities of the Church. There is not a home in any part of the world where the Bible should not be found. There is not a home in which The Book of Mormon should not be found. I am _ speaking of Latter-day Saint homes. There is no home where the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price should not be. Don't keep them on the shelves or in the cupboard, but opened where they can easily be reached, that the members of the family might find access to them and sit down and read and study the principles of the gospel for themselves. KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER I feel that many Latter-day Saints—our sisters as well as our brethren, are under condemnation before the Lord because he has given us so much pertaining to our present needs and our salvation, and yet the great majority of us, if I have the right understanding, don't study, and we don't hunt for these things and we don't know about them, and sO we are in danger—danger of being led astray. We ought to live the truth, that is, the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That ought to be the choicest thing in all the world, and why not? These words are so beautiful here: 'More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb" (Psalms 19:10). How many of us feel that way? Are they sweet to us like that? Well, sisters, if they are not, we have nobody to blame but ourselves. I will ask you this question, and you can answer it for yourselves. Who should have a better understanding of the fundamental principles of the gospel than the mother in the home? Well, I don't know of anybody. Why? Because she is with those little children of hers more than the father, if she is doing her duty as she ought to do, and they come to her with their questions. They come to her knee, and that is why she ought to instruct them. She could make a _ far better job of it than the father, and I am not excusing the father. It is as much his responsibility to see that the children are reared in light and truth as the Lord has said. The Lord has placed that responsibility upon us. He has made it so definite, and he also gave us a warning that it is the fathers and mothers of children who will have to answer if their children go wrong, if they have neglected these responsibilities. I said something about this in the Relief Society Conference in 1962, but it will not hurt to repeat some of it. Teach your children. Now, you good mothers, C you should teach your children virtue, chastity, and they should be taught from their early childhood. And they should be made aware of the pitfalls and the dangers that are so prevalent throughout the world. We are living in a wicked world. When you read your newspapers you can discover that, and they give us but a small fraction of what goes on. Wickedness prevails. One of my good brethren who had the right to speak some years ago said: "Chastity is dead." I hope that isn't true of virtue. The tendency of the times is toward evil. I deplore, and I know my brethren do, the tendency in the world which Latterday Saints imitate and copy, as far as women are concerned, at least in their dress. You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, thinking that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the 885 DECEMBER 1966 world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and our minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do? I am not finding fault with any of you good sisters here, and what I am saying maybe doesn't apply to a single one of you, because you are the women who are active. You are the women who are teaching and directing. I am not talking to you particularly, but to the sisters of all of the Church and to the fathers of all of the Church for that matter. When you go into the homes to visit, can't you do something to encourage the mothers to teach their children, to read the scriptures to them and bring them up as the Lord has said, in light and truth? You sisters have a_ glorious work to do laboring with the sisters of the Church and teaching them to keep the commandments of our Eternal Father. The Savior said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14: 15). Never in the history of the world has the need of keeping the commandments of the Lord been made manifest more than today. Now you good sisters are playing your part in-this great undertaking of bringing to pass righteousness and truth and a love of God in the hearts of the members of the Church. We ought to be grateful that we live in this day, notwithstanding all the fears and the troubles and the anxiety which come upon us because of conditions that prevail in the world. Our sisters are entitled just as much to the inspiration for their needs of the Holy Spirit as are the men. They are entitled to the gift of prophecy concerning matters that would be essential for them to know as it is for the men. When they pray, they should pray earnestly, expecting to have an answer to their prayers. The Lord will hear them, if they are earnest, true, just as well as he will the brethren. The women have a voice in the government of the Church. When someone is appointed to an office, we do not ask the men only to vote, but we ask the whole congregation. The women have a right to raise their hands. They have a right to speak. And it was by the inspiration of the Almighty that the Relief Society came into existence. When the Lord said that no person could be saved in ignorance, I think he meant women as well as he did men, and I think the women of the Church are under the obligation of studying the scriptures just as well as are the men. We are living in a day of turmoil, strife, and contention, I think nearly as bad as the world has ever seen. There may have been times worse, but I don't know of any other or reading of anything worse than what we are getting today—the violation of law, the selfishness of men, the greed, the ambitions, the turning away from faith in God. I think we are getting today, speaking of the world, in a very serious condition in relation to matters of that kind. Now it is my opinion, and I KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER have a very strong opinion of that to that effect, that this world is rapidly reaching the point when the cup of iniquity will be full. I think that day of wickedness is rapidly drawing upon us. We need the help of our sisters, you good sisters of the Relief Society, to help us teach the principles of eternal truth just as well as we do the elders of the Church. You can teach it in your organizations. Our sisters need to be taught, many of them, just as well as do our brethren. We have sisters in the Church who are losing their faith. We have sisters who love the world more than they do the kingdom of God. There is plenty of work to do for the sisters of the Relief Society. Today there is a condition existing in this country among our youth, and something ought to be done as far as we are concerned to see if we can't keep them on the path of "light and truth [and] forsake that evil one." I hope that our good sisters of the Relief Society will join us in this effort, instead of going out to join clubs to play cards and waste their time while their children, perhaps, roam the streets. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God. We should remember that. But here is our trouble... That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the traditions of their fathers (D&C 93:39). But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth (D&C 93:40). This is the commandment to the members of the Church. Now our sisters of the Relief Society can help in this matter, as can the other organizations, to see that the children of the Latterday Saints obey counsel, understand the truth, walk in its light, are taught to pray, and have a love for their fellow men. We don't want our sisters, because of responsibilities given to them in the organizations of the Church, to have to neglect their families. We don't want any sister in the Relief Society to have to attend her meetings and at the same time leave her children to run the streets. If her Church duties require her attention, then she should see to it that some provision is made to care for her children, if she has children, that they might be protected and taught to pray and be faithful and true, and brought up in light and truth. That is our responsibility. No, we do not want any sister to neglect her responsibility, but we do not want her to have to do it at the sacrifice of children by neglect, leaving them to find bad company or to be idle. Let us see to it that our children, if we are called into the ministry in this regard, are provided for, that they have protection. We are in a wicked world. I know there are good people in the world, yes. But the Lord says it is wicked, and if he says it is wicked, I think maybe I can, too, and [ think it is getting more so every day. We have many responsibilities, but none of them to cause us to neglect our homes. Now, you sisters, when you go home, teach your good sisters in stakes and wards to have a little more interest in revelations the 887 DECEMBER 1966 Lord has given us pertaining to our exaltation, and may the Lord bless you. I am grateful for you and for the work you are doing and for your loyalty, and for the integrity of these good sisters who preside and who direct you in your labors. The Lord has called this organization, as you all know, by prophecy, into existence for the building up and strengthening of his kingdom, along with the other organizations. I am sure your good brethren, I being among them, love you for the great work eS LULLABY FOR JESUS Mabel Jones Gabbott Sway more gently, cedar trees. Catch the almond-scented breeze That carries heavenly song to earth Of peace, good will, the Savior's birth. All bright stars that shine tonight Lend your brilliance to his light That guides the shepherds, say to them: "The Babe is born in Bethlehem." Cradled in a manger, Gentled by the hay, He is softly sleeping. It is Christmas day. Wrapped in swaddling clothes In the stable there, Look, the mother Mary Has sunshine in her hair. Warmed by oxen's breathing On this most blessed morn, Unto all men everywhere The holy Child is born. Waken, buds on olive boughs, And springtime blossoms open now. Let all nature smile and say, "Christ is born to earth today." you are doing and the integri of your hearts. We pray for yo we uphold you, we want you walk in the light and the unde standing of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that President McKay would want me to leave his bl ing with you, along with min that the Lord will continue bless you good sisters in all y do, and may he bless you wi health and strength to carry this great Relief Society work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Sister Jesse Evans Smith; President Joseph Fielding Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; Elder Spencer W. Kimball; Elder S. Dilworth Young. The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer ain a spirit of rejoicing and dedication Relief Society leaders from near and far assembled in Salt Lake City for sessions of the Relief Society Annual General Conference on Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. Included among them were devoted and able representatives from "the lands down under" of Australia, New Zealand, and Tonga, and from the first stake created in South America at Sao Paulo, Brazil; from the northlands of Norway, and from Germany; from Mexico and from most of the States in the United States, including Hawaii and Alaska. Special facilities provided simultaneous translation into the Spanish, Norwegian, Samoan, and German languages. For the first time a part of the conference was broadcast internationally via the Church-owned shortwave station in New York— WNYW. Portions of the Tabernacle sessions were aired in English and Spanish. These same broadcasts were also heard on KSL Radio beginning at midnight on October 9. Prior to the formal opening of the conference on Wednesday, 889 DECEMBER 1966 stake and mission Relief Society presidencies and their homemaking leaders viewed from early morning until in the evening Tuesday, displays of practical, useful, and beautiful homemaking articles, and attractive, economical items of clothing. The opening session of the conference was on Wednesday morning at 9:30 in the Tabernacle on Temple Square, at which inspiring music was presented by the San Juan Stake Singing Mothers from Southern Utah. President Belle S. Spafford, who conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions, gave the opening message of the conference, which was the report of the status of Relief Society based on the 1965 annual reports from stakes and missons, together with pertinent instructions, guidelines, and cautions regarding the conduct of the work of the organization. Moving messages were then heard from Irma Helena Arduino, the Portuguese-speaking Relief Society President of the new Sao Paulo Stake in Brazil, and Vola O. Mauger, Relief Society President of the new Adelaide Stake in Australia. Inspiring and significant counsel and direction were given to the stake and mission leaders assembled by Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of Twelve, Chairman of the Adult Correlation Committee, and by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve who is an Adviser to Relief Society. On Wednesday afternoon, a capacity crowd filled the Tabernacle and overflowed into the Assembly Hall for the 2 o'clock session for Relief Society members and the general public. The 890 principal speaker at this session was President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency and long-time Adviser to Relief Society. President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, also addressed this session. Sister Mary R. Young, represented the General Board in a talk. A large combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Cascade, North Seattle, Puget Sound, Seattle, Seattle East, Tacoma, and Vancouver Stakes sang gloriously at this session. Stake and mission leaders were warmly received at a _ coglorful reception Wednesday evening in the Relief Society Building by General Board members. President Spafford received the guests in a beautiful Korean gown which had been presented to her by the Relief Society sisters at the time of her recent visit to Korea. On Thursday morning, separate departmental sessions were held at various locations in the city for presidencies, secretarytreasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, homemaking leaders, and_ spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement stake and mission leaders. In each of these sessions valuable specific help was given regarding the responsibilities of the respective callings through impressive dramatizations, verbal instruction, demonstrations, and other types of teaching presentations. The concluding session of the conference was held in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, at which Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE delivered a moving address, followed by a delightful presentation, 'Speaking of Malinda," written by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. The concluding talk of the conference was by Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of Twelve, also an Adviser to Relief Society. His powerful and heartwarming message together with the other inspired messages of the conference, implanted in the hearts of the sisters a feeling of gratitude for the blessings and privileges that are theirs, and a greater resolve to use their time and talents even more productively in discharging their leadership responsibilities, in strengthening their own homes, and in helping, more effectively, in the work of building the kingdom. Immediately following the last session of the conference, Relief Society members and the general public were invited to remain in the Tabernacle and attend a special brief service commemorating the completion of the Relief Society Centennial Memorial, which had been initiated a quarter of a century ago under the leadership of General Relief Society President Amy Brown Lyman and her Board. President Spafford related the history and significance of the memorial, a campanile housing the so-called Nauvoo Temple Bell, to honor the founding of Relief. Society and in recognition of the honored position of women in the gospel plan. President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency spoke briefly. Then, with the tones of the historic bell resounding over Temple Square, those assembled retired to the site of the bell tower between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall in a colorful autumnal setting where the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Northwest rendered a selection, and a closing prayer was offered by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and Chairman of the Temple Square Committee. (The Report and Official Instructions and the talks given by the General Presidency were carried in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine. - President Joseph Fielding Smith's talk in this issue, and the addresses by Elders Harold B. Lee, Marion G. Romney, Gordon B. Hinckley, and Thomas S. Monson, and Sister Mary R. Young will appear in early issues in 1967.) By FLAKE AND STAR Ethel Jacobson This evanescent flake, i This crystal avatar Spiraling to earth, a Is flawless as a star— Miraculously wrought As infinitudes of spheres Dancing celestial sarabands Through frosty light-years. 891 Across the River mw Macy was drawing a reindeer on the blackboard. She stopped abruptly. ""Are—are you sure?" "How come you didn't know? Didn't you know that my father and Owen Collin were pulled from the river last evening more dead than alive?" Bruce, a fourteen-year-old pupil, became more excited with each word. "You think anyone else is stupid enough to try crossing when my father can't do it?" Macy Bowman was teacher for the one-room school in District #214. Bruce Fraser had been kept in to finish his work. Instead, he was chewing his pencil and wrecking her plans. She dropped to a chair by her desk. She glanced to the windows where, after a brief pause, rain u92 Dorothy Clapp Robinson was playing paddle-ballagainst the panes. "What about the men who went for the tree, how will they get back?" "Didn't go. It is thirty miles to the hills—and no one around here does things ahead of time. - It can't be helped. Rain's still falling; Gila's still raising...." "Rising," Macy corrected. ",. And," Bruce ignored the interruption, "if the rain stopped now we couldn't cross the river for a spell." "But the tree? I ordered candles and decorations for it, and they are certainly waiting at the post office." "Oh, getting the tree isn't going to count much one way or the other." And that, Macy thought, was the very reason she must have a beautiful Christmas tree. Beauty was a thing apart from the lives of these children. Some of them could not remember ever having had a Christmas tree. She must give them an evening for memories of something beautiful. A mere three miles separated her from the fulfillment of her plans. Three miles and an ugly river. Both the post office and store were east across the river. Everything was across the river, except this small community of scorched houses. There were no lawns, no shade trees, no public buildings, except this room which also served as a church. The people lived by the whims of the river. Macy returned to the conversation about the river. "Can't anything be done to make sure there will be a crossing?" "Why, my father has been trying for years to get a dam built at the gooseneck where there is a natural reservoir." "How would that help? We would still have to cross." "Tt won't stop all flooding, but it would hold most of the water for the crops. Should have gone Saturday. It was raining then, but the river could be crossed," Bruce explained. "Yes, but who would have known rain would be coming down in sheets on Monday?" "Anyone who lives here could have guessed it." The rain was still slewing fast and hard when Macy left the schoolroom. She bent her head against the force of it. Her thoughts darted crazily about. There must be some way of getting a tree and her packages from ACROSS THE RIVER the post office. Besides candles and. Decorations, she had ordered a small present for each pupil. She spoke to Lucia Egbert, her landlady's daughter, about it. "What Jud can't do, no one can do. Better put your party off until the river is down." "How long will that be?" Macy asked. "Who knows? Something will come up, and the children will forget all about it. Just have the program you have planned." "T don't want them to forget about it. I promised them a tree, and I must get one for them." If faith could move mountains, Macy thought, why could it not provide her with a tree, or means of getting one? ALL night the rain continued to fall, sometimes in house-shaking gusts, then thinned to a drizzle. Morning struggled hard to announce its arrival. Macy splashed through water and mud to reach the schoolhouse. The paths had been washed away. The room smelled damp and musty. She built a small fire in the seldom-used stove. The fire would help to kill the musty odor and dry the pupils' caps and coats. During the noon recess, Macy heard the older pupils discussing the flood in comparison with the other floods they remembered. "This is a lot worse than the one the year Mama died," Bruce remembered, ''and she died because they couldn't get her to a doctor before it was too late."' When dismissal time came, Macy knew she had to make a decision. If the residents did not know of a way, certainly she could not think of one. 893 DECEMBER 1966 "I'm sorry," she began, hurrying lest she lose -control of her emotions, "we cannot have our party as planned. You all know why." "You promised." Little Angie Oliver laid her head on her desk and started to sob. "You promised," the phrase became a chorus. '"What's the matter with you kids?" Bob Richen tried to be heard. "You expect her to fly across the river? She is not magic." Then, clear and most emphatic above the other voices, came the voice of Bruce Fraser. "I thought you were different. You talk big about doing things, but you are like all the others. When the going gets tough you quit." He snatched his coat and went out, slaraming the door behind him. Awed by such insolence, the pupils sat rigid. They avoided Macy's eyes. The damp air that came through the opened door made her shiver. Some of the children rose to leave. "Wait." The pupils resumed their seats. Macy looked to the windows. The view was anything but encouraging. Yet "Bruce was right," she began slowly, "I have been teaching you that circumstances can be conquered...." "But you didn't know about the Gila." Helva Justensen spoke in her defense. 'We know. Why, I've never seen an electric light." Macy waited for silence. "Tm going to stay by my promise. We will have a tree. You are dismissed." The pupils went quietly to the door, but once outside, they whooped with glee. When the last sound had died away, Macy 894 dropped to her chair. Her desperation was too deep for tears. She must find some way of performing a miracle. Jud Fraser had said the community would prosper when the men learned to pull together and use the means that nature had provided. What was she overlooking? Miorninc. Came, and Mrs. Egbert reported the Watkins family had moved to higher ground. That blotted out every chink of light Macy had seen yesterday. Bruce was waiting on the schoolhouse steps. "T came to apologize," he told her, then, "where are you going to get a tree?" "There must be a way—there just must be."' A gleam lighted the boy's eyes. "Tf I get a tree, can you get the other things?" A click of warning startled Macy. "Bruce, don't you try crossing the river." ""No, Ma'am. I told you it can't be done." "Then where will you get a Christmas tree?" "TI — I have an idea. Do you say yes?" "Yes, if your father approves." Instantly; the boy was on his way, running and splashing mud all over the legs of his overalls. He had his idea for getting the tree. Now she must have one for getting the "other things." And suddenly there it was. If she used Bruce to produce a tree why not use — the parents? Have the men make presents for the boys, the women for the girls. This was Tuesday, and the Christmas party was to be Friday evening. Not much time, but it must be done. She went directly to the home of the president of the school board. Oh, no. No. No. The time was much too short and some of the men were not handy with their hands. Macy would not argue. "Unless a man wants his son to be the only one not receiving a present he had. Better get busy. Help each other. Have them at the schoolhouse tomorrow forenoon. Belts, tool chests, bows and arrows, anything." The women were more easily persuaded. They were accustomed to meeting such demands. "Our resourees are at rock bottom,' Mrs. Hunter told her, "but we will find something." She looked critically at Macy. 'Since you have none of your own, suppose you provide a present for little Angie Oliver and the two Watkins girls." She laughed outright at the surprised look on Macy's face. "'Angie's mother is ill, and the Watkins family - has just had to move to _ higher ground, so they are disorganized. Mrs. Watkins can't sew anyway. Who is going to furnish the Santa Claus suit?" "Surely, someone has one." Macy hadn't thought that far. "No, Susie Fraser used to have one, but it was old and Jud burned it after she died. There has been no occasion to use one since then. But Mandy Collin has just dyed some flour sacks for quilt linings. You might get her to use them for a Santa suit instead." With dragging feet, Macy walked the mile and a half to the Collin home, but she found that Mandy was adamant. "T need them for my quilts. I sell my quilts to the miners. I am not interested in any Christmas ACROSS THE RIVER parties, anyway. I have no children, you know."' Macy answered thoughtfully. "Santa Claus will leave a lovely memory with the children." But Macy had to admit defeat. The way back to Mrs. Hunter's was endless. She was cold, tired, and her head throbbed. "Don't give up," Mrs. Hunter told her. "I will talk to Mandy, but she doesn't often give in." At her boarding house, Lucia Egbert met her at the door. "Come in, for pity's sake. You look like a thoroughly drowned angel. Where in the world have you been in this downpour?" "Hunting the Christmas spirit, and you are to supply a generous portion of it." "The only way I can create the Christmas spirit is to have it first myself, and the only way to give me the Christmas spirit is to give me Jud Fraser — as a present." In spite of the lightness of her words they held undertones of despair. WELL," she went on, as Macy stared at her, "why do you think I am hanging around here when I could be teaching in a place where a river doesn't call the turns? It may be if you pull this party off. Successfully, the men will realize they can do other things together, like agreeing with Jud and the engineers who have planned the dam." "IT wish I had the power," Macy answered, "but right now the district needs your help. Get some older girls to help you and make cookies and candy." "Just like that! Where do we get the sugar? I doubt if there are five pounds in the entire town." 895 DECEMBER 1966 "Use honey or molasses." Macy hurried to her room. She was not going to listen to logic. The entire party would fall through if she did. Her head was whirling, and she wanted nothing so much as to lie down and forget Christmas and everything connected with it, but she must be sure of presents for little Angie and the Watkins girls. To choose for Angie was easy. Angie had never had a new pencil. Where she got the stubs that cramped her little fingers, Macy did not know. Luckily, Macy had two new ones. She tied a blue ribbon around one for Angie. She went through her possessions, but found nothing appropriate for the two little girls. In despair, she took a ribbon sash that belonged to her formal and cut two lengths from it. She tied them in hair bows, labeled them, and _ laid them on her dresser. Then, weary beyond words, she prepared to go to bed. Macy went to sleep almost immediately, but an hour later she awakened, and the events of the day, the problems she faced, though reduced by the promises she had exacted, raced over and over through her mind. Many times as the night lingered on, she dropped to her knees, and her tears and prayers mingled. Toward morning Macy fell into a troubled sleep. She dreamed the water was lapping at the schoolhouse steps, and she was trying to sweep it back with a broom. Out in the current, Bruce was swimming toward her. In one hand he. Clutched a small fir tree; then, just as he was about to reach her outstretched hands, an undertow of the stream caught and swept him and the tree away. B96 Macy awakened — suddenly, hearing herself calling his name. Could the dream mean he had failed to find a tree? She could hear the wind and the rain beating about the house. She tried to get up, but she was too weak. Later, Mrs. Egbert came in with a steaming cup of ginger tea. "If you drink enough of this and stay covered, we might break your fever so you can go to the Christmas program." Then she added, 'If there is one." "T must get up and help." "Lucia is handling the children, and if anyone can get work out of the men, Jud Fraser can —that is why he isn't liked, he is too much of a pusher — but don't take that for a promise. Just resign yourself to the fact that you have done everything you can." FripAy morning, Macy awakened to see the sun shining. She was so excited she sprang out of bed and rushed to the window, but her legs were made of rubber. When Mrs. Egbert brought her breakfast she was in bed, but sitting up. "How are things going? What have the...?" "All we can do now is wait and see. It is a beautiful day, and that should mean something. Jud is coming in his buggy to take us to the party." The day was endless, but the fact that she was powerless to change anything, gave Macy a great respect and understanding for the people of the community. When defeat met them on every hand, it was inevitable that they should become apathetic. When Jud came for her and Mrs. Egbert, he said Lucia had everything in hand, and in the schoolroom there was standing room only. For the first time in weeks, the sky was clear. From a patch of deep blue, the evening star shone with soft brilliance, dimming the light of stars clustered behind it. There was a silence, too, a hush of nature that was broken only by the muffled roar of the river. Macy was overwhelmed with a tingling spirit of worship. Christmas was in the air, here, as well as across the river. A lighted lantern had been hung on each side of the schoolroom door, and a lighted lantern hung in each window. The soft light laid a hint of mystery over the room. As soon as Macy and Mrs. Egbert had taken their seats, Lucia gave a signal, and all the parents and all the children united in singing "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear.'"' There were so "many strong voices, and they sang with such unfeigned devotion, a listener would think they hadn't a care in the world. After the prayer, the curtains which had been strung across the front of the room parted, and Macy gasped with relief. There were exclamations of surprise and delight from all parts of the room; a boy whistled, and two little girls danced up and down. Even the grownups were moved by the enchanting sight. "Where did Bruce get the tree?" Macy whispered. "Mesquite."' Mrs. Egbert's eyes twinkled. It couldn't be — it just could not be. No mesquite ever grew in-the shape of an evergreen. She looked about for Bruce. His back ACROSS THE RIVER was turned, but Bob smiled at her. His grin gave her a clue, and she looked more closely at the tree. It was tied, she decided, in the shape of a cone, but she could not see a rope. She could not see a leaf of mesquite. Every limb, every twig, every strand of rope was covered with rich clusters of mistletoe. The white —how could she have overlooked the impact of the white berries, but then she had never seen such clusters of them. No candles, no tinsel, nothing in the packages in the post office across the river could add one iota of beauty to the tree. What work they had put into the making! Boys, with an imagination that produced that tree, would never be stopped by a mere river. Macy knew she would never again see a Christmas tree half so beautiful. Not to detract from the beauty of the tree, presents, brought by the parents, were exhibited on desks at each side of the tree. Macy had prayed for the power to create this glorious experience, but the parents and the children had outdone her wildest dreams. When Santa came in, flaunting his red suit, Mandy Collin turned and looked at her with a flushed smile. She saw little Angie reach for her pencil and hug it close against her face. The song "Silent Night" and the fervent prayer of thanks lifted each person into full fellowship with the words of Jesus when he said "'Love one another, as I have loved you." It was reflected on the face of each child and each adult. A miracle had been brought to pass; and Bruce —would receive his thanks later. 897 ¢ Alice Morrey Bailey @ Luke McKean knew the situation was of his own making, and a part of the large folly which had dogged him intermittently for the fourteen years he had been a foreign correspondent for Life—going home for Christmas. Well, here he was, right in the middle of Christmas tree land, with the Christmas landscape covered by the snow. Which bogged down his rent-a-car and shut him off in the wilds of the mountains between Wyoming and Utah. He had been warned in Denver, where his plane was grounded, and again in Cheyenne, but he had pushed stubbornly on, his urge to get to Salt Lake City his only companion. He had come too near his goal to give up now, even though it was far into the afternoon toward Christmas Eve. He got out of the car again, scooped snow, pulled sagebrush, and tore at the rocks with his 898 heels. He tried again and again, rocking the car, finally, in desperation, gunning it until the wheels spun, but it was no use; he was hopelessly stuck. He could run out of gas and then not be able to heat the car. He could run the battery down by playing the radio for storm warnings. It was irony to come so near and not make it; it was folly to try, because there was no home to go to for Christmas. He could go only to the little house where he used to live with all his hope for the future—little David and the promise of many more like him, and Mary, his wife, who had waited out the war there, both of them cut off in one blinding second of slippery ice, crashing metal, and splintering glass, with himself the only anguished survivor. He could go back only to the memories he had run from these fourteen years, the bitterness of all that was lost, not to the warmth of holding Mary in his arms, the joy of companionship with a small boy. It was silly. What could he do when he got there? Walk up to a strange house where he used to live and knock? Then what? Suppose it were vacant, or torn down? If someone came to the door what could he say? They might think him crazy, even call the police. For a grown man who could surely consider himself a cosmopolite after his wanderings about the globe, a newsman stripped of illusions, to be the victim of his own emotions was outlandish, but there it was. Too well he knew the craving would return again and again in some strange land across the world. This was the only way to, at last, lay an old ghost. If he didn't make it, so what? It was not his birthplace; in reality not even his home. Mary had come to Kearns with him during his soldiering days and he had hopped off from there, leaving her to wait in Salt Lake City while he covered the European arena with his camera after a promotion through Stars and Stripes, the serviceman's newspaper. When he got back Mary was sold on the place. "T like the people and the climate, and it's the place where I want to rear our children,'' she had said. "You going to be a Mormon?" Luke had teased, but she had answered him soberly. "IT think I am, and I want David to be one, too." One place was as good as another to Luke, who had no family ties—no religious ones, either. He was a photographer, and surely the vicinity offered an endless A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT parade of subjects. Luke had thought seriously of opening a studio. The loss of his wife and son in such a cruelly short time had catapulted him into his present occupation. His present assignment was "Native Son Rediscovers America,' but it had not been like coming back to the America of Washington and Lincoln, the California Gold Rush, the covered wagon and sage brush, nor even of the war years. It was like coming to a new land, even a new planet—the coming true of the science fiction of his boyhood. Luke had traveled east and west and north and south, 11,000 miles in the last three months. When he had come home from the war he had draped himself over the shiprail and watched the Old Girl rise slowly out of the horizon, and he had _ blubbered like a baby, not alone, either. This time he left Scotland by jet in the dawn, had lunch comfortably in New York. He could have seen the sun set in Denver, slept in San Francisco. He had gone through his assignment in excitement and wideeyed wonder. He had been awed by dams and dynamos, automation and communications, electronics and nucleonics. He had been amused by gadgets, amazed by the surrealist nightmare of freeways in downtown Los Angeles, where four layers of traffic sped in diverse directions. He had used striped tooth-paste and taken "helicabs" from hotel to airport, used vending machines that changed folding money, and tuned his TV by push-button from across his hotel rooms. But what about the people? 899 DECEMBER 1966 Luke was still not satisfied. He had talked to literally hundreds of them, but only superficially, in spite of his penetrating newsman's questions. You can't talk to people on the run, and that was what Americans were—even as he had been throughout the last three months. Whole families were driven by schedules, from the tiniest tot with her dancing classes to the busy executive with split-second appointments. The clock was the most important instrument in the nation. Luke had seen the physical and the intellectual America, but he hadn't yet been fully exposed to its spirit and its heart. Were the critics right? Was it true that America was materialistic, in pursuit of money, possessions, instead of values, fun, instead of joy? What were the young Americans really like? Luke had a personal stake in his quest. If his son had lived, what would he be like? Luke was almost afraid to know. How long he pondered he did not know, but, all at once, bobbing up from behind rises, disappearing in the low places, a coming toward him car Was 900 through the storm, its lights on, although it was not yet dark. Luke got out and stood beside the road. He thought amusedly that if he were a modern wise man in pursuit of a nebulous dream, here, at least, was a modern star. The youth who unfolded himself from the Volkswagen was as tall as Luke himself, and Luke was a tall man. "You stuck, sir? Can I give you a hand?" "You surely can," said Luke gratefully. They worked for half an hour to get Luke's car out, but it was no use, the young man applying himself as if he were personally involved, and not giving up until Luke finally said: "I'd better go into town, if you'll give me a ride, and have a tow car out tomorrow. My name's Luke McKean." "And I'm Peter Brent," the young man responded, quickly stripping off a wet glove to shake hands. Once inside the car Luke had time to study the youth in the faint light from the dashboard in the growing dark, to watch his skillful manipulations of the car through the storm on the slippery road. He had features as classic as those on the head of a coin, a bright, intelligent, open countenance. Luke had to fight down a growing feeling of kinship with the boy, to keep objective, because here was his probable last chance before a new assignment, a captive specimen at his disposal for probably two hours. "What brings you out on a night like this?" he began. "My girl. She's a college student at the Brigham Young University, lives in Evanston. I took her home for the holidays. What brings you out, sir?" "Something as elusive as the Holy Grail,' Luke answered eva-. Sively. He had no intention of being the interviewee, or of tipping his hand, and it wasn't his habit to lie. "I have been trying to figure out how old you are." '"'Nineteen."' "TI would have guessed a year or two older," Luke said. Nineteen! Just the age David would have been. If he had lived what would he have been doing now? It was a little shock to realize he had always thought of David as a small boy. "What do you do—work, go to school?" he asked, trying to hide his growing eagerness. "T'm in my second year of college." "Aren't you a little young for that?" "Maybe. I was lucky. One of the few who went into college instead of my last year of high school. It's an experiment. Gave me a lift on my major." "Which is?" "Science, of course," he said, as if it were all one word of a foregone conclusion. "T hear the graduates in scientific fields can go to work at top salary when they graduate." "That's a point," admitted the boy. Probably the most important point, Luke thought, if the critics were right. "You'll be out of college by the time you're twenty-one." "Not exactly," said Peter. 'I have a call to go on a mission for my Church. I'm leaving as soon as school's out in June—be gone two years." "Then you're a Mormon. Don't you resent having your school A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT broken into? Is it mandatory? Don't you dare disobey? Would it not be better to wait until you are through college?' Luke had met briefly a few missionaries from the Latter-day Saints Church in his travels; he had attended a soul-stirring concert of the Tabernacle Choir when it toured Europe, and he was conversant with the tenets from his brief stay after the war. He had never met the question head-on, remembering Mary's early desire, nor had he cast it from his mind. "You have the wrong slant, Mister," Peter said, a little nettled. "I want to go. I've long planned on it. My only worry was that I might not be called. It just so happens it fits in with my plans for school—my lower division behind me. When I get back I want to go all out and not stop until I get my Ph. D." "Well, then, you are a young man with a direction," Luke said, and added as a goad, "if it is the right direction. How do you know it is?" QUESTIONING was Luke's business; he was past master at separating information from individuals, and he had more than a small smattering of science, philosophy, and comparative religion. He questioned Peter through the skies and around the globe, parrying him at the edge of sword-sharp wit, and backing him into verbal corners. He had the young man at the rapier point of logic many times, but always Peter acquitted himself, sometimes sending the weapon flying from Luke's hand. He didn't always have the proof, but he knew the basic principles, and he warmed to the fight, thought 501 DECEMBER 1966 through each question with deliberation and logic. Peter's God was as big as the universe, with creation unlimited, love unbounded, yet he had certain definite characteristics, and Peter knew he lived with a passion Luke thought had died with the last apostle. There were conviction and authority in his voice. "We have the answer to all the troubles in the world." Luke frankly envied him. On other matters he was just as sure. No, Russia would never conquer America. No other nation ever would, so long as it was a Christian nation and held fast to its principles of freedom. It was a chosen land, a promised land, even the Garden of Eden. Science was wonderful, as far as it went. Scientists were on the way, faster now than ever, and when they learned everything there was to know they would know the vast laws of God. Luke could not disagree. By the time they came to Parley's Canyon, with the city spread before them like a lap of multi-colored jewels from the mountains to the lake, Luke was satisfied about Peter, but there were still some riddles. Of what was he a product? "You'd better drop me off at a convenient hotel," he said, dreading the thought of another Christmas Day in a hotel. "Not a chance," said Peter. "My family would never forgive me—a stranger alone on Christmas." They drove to a large, comfortable looking home, not in the most deluxe district, nor yet in the less-than-average, and Luke told himself this was good; it 902 would further his research. In truth, he had to know more about Peter, not lose touch with him. If David had lived would he think as Peter thought, live as Peter lived? The house was blazing light from every window in true, outgoing Christmas spirit, and Luke was aware of a_ sudden little feeling of dread. Could it be jealousy? They had talked of everything under the sun_ except Peter's parents. Somehow Luke had avoided the subject. Was it because he was identifying this boy with David, and himself as Peter's father? At least, at the door, there was a brief reprieve. "T've brought home one of the wise men," the boy told the flushed, motherly woman who came to the door. "Aunt Mel— Uncle Dick, is it all right if Mr. McKean spends Christmas with us?" "More like one of the stupid men," amended Luke, not giving them a chance to say no. "Are you sure I'm not putting you out —a stranger on a holiday?" "You won't be a stranger long, not with this bunch. Peter, put Mr. McKean in the little bedroom, and then come to the table, both of you. I haven't time for introductions. The gravy's boiling over." Luke was overwhelmed. If this was the real heart of America, it was a pulsing one—a big family, pretty girls, another grown boy putting chairs around the dining table, steaming food being brought from the kitchen. It was a kaleidograph of sparkle and movement—a lighted Christmas tree which touched the ceiling, flashing with light and color, the floor underneath heaped with gaily wrapped packages. Oh, this was the kind of Christmas of which Luke had dreamed! By the time they were all seated, he had slipped into the family so easily he knew all of them—Aunt Mel, Uncle Dick, Peter's cousins, Sue and Virginia and Mary Ellen, and Richard, who was Peter's age. Where exactly did Peter fit into this household? ''Where's Mother?" Peter said. "She went to give her 'Star' lecture,' Aunt Mel answered. "By the way, she was worried about you." "Don't kid me," said Peter callously. 'She never worried about me a minute in her life." Well, here it is, thought Luke. No family loyalty—perhaps divorce. "Good reason," Aunt Mel said complacently. '""You never gave her cause." "Speaking of angels," someone said. The door opened and a shower of parcels dropped from the hands of the smartly dressed, slim woman at the door. Peter jumped to help her. There was no doubt it was his mother—the same feminine counterpart of his classic features, the same bright intelligent face. "You're just in time, Jennifer. Virginia, get Aunt Jen's plate from the oven." It was some time later, after all the introductions and explanations had been made, the dishes A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT done and the children gone— Richard to see his girl, Sue and Peter caroling, and the other two subbing-for-Santa, that Luke was able to make his way to Jennifer's side before the fireplace. "T'm impressed with your son. Is he a special dispensation?" "No, run of the mill. It's hard to tell him and his friends apart at this age. They dress the same, have the same goals, talk the same." "Really?'' marveled Luke. "I have been wondering about his father."" Luke couldn't refrain from the question. "His father was killed in the war. Peter never knew him, but he is surprisingly like him. Mel and Dick took me in when I was so broken up, and somehow we just stayed. It has been a marvelous arrangement—Peter got the normal background of a large family life, and I was able to be part father and mother to him. Now, what about you? What brings you to Salt Lake City?" Luke told her everything without reserve, because she was the kind of listening, perceiving woman to whom a man could talk. "And the house?" she queried. "When are you going up and 'knock on that door?" Luke pondered. Where had the desire gone? "T know now what it was," he said at last. "And it wasn't so silly after all. I wanted to know what David would be like if he grew up as his mother wanted him to grow. I found out, talking to your son. That was the door. I have already found it. I have already knocked!" He looked into Jennifer's eyes, and the door swung wide and wider. 903 The Breath of Life The National Tuberculosis Association (United States of America) aut d = ) — ' AS as 2 pt 7 ~ > GY? MN ah b GQ. "GREETINGS SP Holidays have a way of catching you off guard. It sometimes seems that before you even finish your Fourth of July celebration, you're busy making your Christmas shopping list. That's just the way time seems to fly for those who work and play hard 365 days of the year. But the year goes much slower for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. They can't play or work hard because they suffer from tuberculosis or another one of the serious respiratory diseases that threaten the life and breath of us all. Emphysema and chronic bronchitis are lung diseases that are increasing in alarming, epidemic proportions in the United States. Deaths from these diseases have doubled in the last five years. Emphysema has grown to be the second leading cause of disability in the nation. It has medical scientists worried because the cause and cure of emphysema are not known. There is some progress, however, in rehabilitating those who have the disease, particularly in the early stages. Your annual Christmas Seal Campaign is an important source of funds that support tuberculosis case finding and treatment, and the health education and research needed to combat these breath-robbing illnesses. When you get your Christmas Seal letter, please answer it immediately, and then be generous also in using Christmas Seals on all the greeting cards, letters, and gift packages that you mail out. It is all right if the holidays sneak up on you, but don't let crippling respiratory diseases catch you off guard. Remember Christmas Seals and protect your breath of life. ——-) CHRISTMAS EVE Christie Lund Coles | change the linen on the bed | see the tinsel's silver strings And think of him And hear again the tale Who had no place Of glorious night, To lay his head. Of ancient things. | trim the tree with baubles bright | kneel at last on bended knee And think of her To whisper that Who saw the star | think of him Pristine and bright, With sanctity. 904 Mrs. J. R. Hoag, a Latter-day Saint of Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, has recently been appointed a member of the Canadian Housing Design Council. She will also be the National Councjl of Women representative. For the past eleven years Mrs. Hoag has been chairman of the Regina city planning commission, and has held other positions of civic responsibility, including vicechairman of the provincial zoning appeal board and a member of the Regina local housing authority. She is also president of the Pioneer Village corporation and chairman of the Young Women's Christian Association building committee. Lvamae Applegate, Ph. D., is president of the National Education Association of the United States. Dr. Applegate, reared on a North Dakota farm, has been described as ''a homemaker, seamstress, journalist, avid reader, author, and optimist.'' She received her Ph. D. Degree from the University of Minnesota, and is currently dean of the School of Education at St. Cloud (Minnesota) State College, the only woman dean of education in the United States. Edna Snow Cannon (Mrs. Douglas Q. Cannon) was elected mayor of Circleville, Utah in 1965, for a term of four years. Her Honor was born in the mountain village of Pine Valley, Utah. She attended Brigham Young University, and received her Ph. D. From the University of Chicago. She is a Fellow in the Utah Academy of Sciences and is vice-president of the State Board of Education. Ramona W. Cannon Anni Albers has written a delightful and beautifully illustrated book "On Weaving'' (Wesleyan University Press). Hand weaving, the use of various looms, the basic weaves, and the history of weaving are discussed. ''Simplicity,'' Mrs. Albers comments, "is not simpleness but clarified vision.... An orderliness that is too obvious cannot become meaningful in this superior sense that is art. The organization of forms, their relatedness, the proportions, must have a quality of mystery." Alice Phillips (Mrs. John Alton Phillips) is a member of the Mississippi State Legislature. A former junior editor of a leading fashion magazine in New York City, she is a graduate of the New York Academy of Fashion. One of her favorite hobbies is painting and sketching landscapes. Nurses, both registered and practical, are in short supply throughout the world, and thousands more are needed. The average number of _ registered nurses in the United States is 261 for each 100,000 population. Stephanie Lee McCandless, in her position as director of Hawaii's extra-curricular high school program on world affairs, superintends the program of fifty-two high schools on six different islands. She was born in St. Louis, Missouri, but members of the McCandless family, her near relatives, were instrumental in launching the pineapple and sugar industries in the islands. This background, Miss McCandles declares, was one of the factors drawing her to Hawaii, where she has lived for eight busy years. 905 EDITORIAL Volume 53 December 1966 Number 12 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Wi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Tayior Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West M@ The 136th Semi-Annual General Conference was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 31 and October 1, and 2, 1966. The proceedings were broadcast in four languages to the world over nearly two hundred radio and television stations, carrying afar to many nations the message of the everlasting gospel. The theme of the conference, vital to this and all generations, was the everlasting commandments and covenants revealed through the restoration of the gospel. For the first time, five members of the First Presidency attended Conference, and each of them, except President Thorpe B. Isaacson, who is_ recuperating from an illness, addressed the assemblage. President David O. McKay, in his ninety-fourth year, keynoted the opening session and declared the gospel of Jesus Christ and the observance of its responsibilities and requirements as the only effective solution of the problems of a perilous world: Today, in the midst of the world's perplexity, there should be no question in the mind of any true Latterday Saint as to what we shall preach. The answer is as clear as the noonday sun in a cloudless sky.... This is the Word which we should preach— the gospel plan of salvation.... Proclaim that God lives, and that his Beloved Son is the Redeemer and Savior of mankind; that he stands at the head of his Church that bears his name.... These eternal verities are applicable in the year 1966 as they were when Jesus first promulgated them. President Hugh B. Brown appealed to Latter-day Saint parents throughout the world to bring up their children in light and truth, and thus to establish the fundamental patterns of virtue, obedience, and responsibility:. God help us and all the world to sense the reality that the gospel of Jesus Christ is established among men, and that through obedience to it, the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man may be realities to every mother and father, every son and daughter. God hasten the day when that testimony will be real in every heart. Parents are charged with the responsibility of teaching the undoubted truth—that there is no principle more widely seen in all nature and more sternly enforced from the infinitismal electron to the incomprehensible galaxies in outer space, than this: ''Not only liberty but law prevails."' President N. Eldon Tanner spoke of the strength and serenity, the power and effectiveness, given unto those who observe the principles of the gospel:. Men who live righteous lives and lose themselves in the service of the Lord meet the problems of the world with greater serenity and assurance.... We as leaders and members of the Church have a heavy responsibility to help our youth to know and understand that the Bible and The Book of Mormon which were written on opposite sides of the world, are the records of God's dealings with his people on these two hemispheres. They are... Testimonies of many righteous men whose integrity cannot be questioned.... These testimonies have been handed down to us by the prophets. President Joseph Fielding Smith called upon the saints to remember their covenants and promises, and to live above the pitfalls of worldly influences:. Repentance from sin is extremely essential throughout the world today. There has seldom been a time in the history of mankind when sin was not prevalent and the violation of the divine commandments was almost, if not entirely universal... The Father permitted Lucifer to come here so that he could tempt us and test our faith. It is a divine decree, and one that is evidently essential that we have this mortal probation, and we are in it to be tested and proved to see if we can keep the commandments in the face of temptation or trial.... This mortal life is part of eternal life. At the concluding session of the conference in a message delivered by his son Robert, President McKay blessed the members of the Church throughout the world, encouraging them, and inspiring them to seek always the path of truth and to observe the commandments. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, is in very deed in every way, the power of God unto salvation. It gives to every man the perfect life here, and through obedience of gospel principles, it gives us eternal life. To know God and his Son is eternal life. There is the key. Eternal life is what | desire... Life eternal, for me and mine, for you, and for all the world. 907 Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 6 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, who has been attending college in California, is called back to her home in Sydney, Australia, because her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. Julie's friend Betz Condon has accompanied her to Australia, and the girls go with members of the Ridgehaven family on an expedition to search for Ron. Also in the party are Aunt Isabelle, who had once promised to marry Dr. George; and Wally Ridgehaven, Julie's cousin, who has become interested in Betz. The women take over the housekeeping duties at the Ridgehaven station in the bush, and the men set out in search of Ron. @ Julie lay on the straw mattress in the bunk across from Betz, weeping silently into her pillow. Everything in her world was a threatening black cloud. 908 Knowing how Betz felt about Wally was almost more than she could bear. Grandfather and all the family would blame her for bringing Betz to Australia. Aunt Isabelle would be disturbed, and Julie wanted every happiness for her now that she had found Dr. George again. She looked so much improved; she had even eaten a fairly good dinner. Where is Ron? Her heart repeated over and over. The only answer always terrified her. In the daytime she was able to control her thoughts, but here in the darkness they tumbled relentlessly across her mind. Ron was out in that vast wilderness alone, maybe hungry or dying of thirst and exposure; fighting with dingos or poisonous snakes or— her breath sig'ied in fear—-maybe down in some old mine hole, try- ing to climb up, slipping down again, down, down, down! "Oh, no!" she cried out, frantically. ""No! No! No!" Betz sat up, calling to her: "Julie, listen, dear. Try not to think about it. It hurts too much. Let's say our prayer again. Remember Big Dan told us we must have prayerful faith in their success." "T know," Julie answered. "Oh, Betz, I pray every minute, all day, all night." Betz got out of bed and knelt beside her. "Julie,'"' she whispered. "You know something? You're tops in my book. I loye everything about you. I really want to be like you are, courageous and lovable and full of music. Don't give up, Julie. None of us could take it if you broke down. Wally said today...."" Her voice stopped suddenly. "Go on," Julie prodded her. "What did that redhead say about me? Tell me," she demanded. Betz wet her lips. "Well," she went on. 'He said you are really Grandfather Ridgehaven's very favorite. The apple of his eye. He holds you way up there on a pedestal, sort of a pattern for his grandchildren to follow." ""How—how real crazy!" Julie said, but a little warm feeling beat in her heart. ''Grandfather loves each of us just the same." Something bumped against the door, whimpering and pawing at it. "Casey Jones! Let him in, Betz. He's been gone ever since we met the plane. He can sleep on the foot of my bunk." Casey Jones would not lie down. He whirled and pulled at TELL ME OF LOVE Julie's bed covers. Then he growled and ran back to the door again, pawing against it. "Tt's the screeching cockatoos that make him act this way. Did you ever hear such a_ hideous racket?" Both girls went to the window. The big white-trunked gum tree was outlined in the moonlight. Its branches were swinging with the screeching cockatoos. "The Aborigines call them demented souls," Julie told Betz. "Sometimes they carry on this way for hours. Let's put wool in our ears and try to sleep. Tomorrow is a big day. Here, Casey, come up on my bed." He barked and growled, running to the door again. Then he came back looking up at Julie. "Let him out," Betz coaxed. "You put his dinner on the porch. Maybe he's hungry. He seems frantic to get out. Only he wants you to go with him." "The cockatoos upset him,' Julie said. ""Maybe a run in the yard will soothe him." Julie opened the door, and Casey Jones bolted out into the night, barking at the cockatoos. She leaned back against the wall hoping she had done the right thing. She didn't want anything to happen to Ron's dog. "Ta ta for now," Betz said, imitating Wally, as she climbed into her bunk. "Ta ta for now," Julie repeated. But she could not sleep. Casey Jones should be right here on the foot of her bed, safe from harm. She arose, stepped into her slippers, shouldered into her dressing gown, and went out into the night determined to bring him back with her.? 909 DECEMBER 1966 The cockatoos had _ stopped their wild screeching, the only sound was the faraway sighing of the wind through the bush. The moon was a bright crystal ball in the sky; its light brightened the house, chased out shadows from the yards and silvered the grayish shearing sheds. This place had been a part of her life, Julie thought. Grandfather thought each one of his family should come to one of his stations at least once a year, so they would appreciate the work and hardship that made _ the Ridgehaven money. He was so right, she thought. She couldn't be wasteful when she remembered how precious the smallest luxury was out here. A_ bright piece of ribbon would make Geena happy for days, and a bright plaid skirt was a valued possession, kept for special celebrations in the township. And water! Julie could never waste water. Not the tiniest drop! A chiming laugh came to her on the night breeze. She tiptoed toward the verandah. Dr. George and Aunt Isabelle were seated on the steps in the moonlight. Their heads were close together. They were making up for all those long, lost years. Julie could hardly breathe as she went back to her room. They would have so little time together, she thought. There was so much to be said and remembered. Before she closed the door, she whistled softly for Casey Jones, but he did not come to her. Where had he gone? She wondered with a worried frown. She lay back in her bunk wondering if she would ever sleep 910 peacefully again. Once, when she had been so excited about the closing day of school, she had told Grannie she could not sleep at night. Grannie had patted her head, answering in her whimsical way. "Then don't be afraid to stay awake. Listen to what the night has to tell you." Grannie must have had her problems, too, Julie thought. She drifted off into restless sleep, when a knock on the door brought her bouncing awake. She hurried to answer, so Betz would not be disturbed. Dr. George stood there smiling his big, warm smile. "Can we talk, Julie?"' he asked, in a low voice. She shut the door behind her and followed him outside to the verandah. "We won't disturb anyone out here," he said. "Now that those cockatoos have gone, we can hear each other." "Have you seen Casey Jones?" she questioned. "Say! That dog ran down the road barking at the cockatoos. Haven't seen a sign of him since. Dogs like to get out at night." "T wish he'd come back," she said, wistfully. "He's Ron's dog. Grandfather gave him to Ron on his fourteenth birthday." "T remember," Dr. George said. "IT remember so many things about the Ridgehavens, Julie. They have really been my family, too, ever since I was in the University." Neither spoke for a moment, and yet there were so many things to be said. She knew Dr. George had something important to tell her about Aunt Isabelle. He was leaving at dawn with Big Dan, Uncle Geoffrey, and Uncle John. He would want her to know Isabelle's condition. Her heart rebelled against it. She did not want him to tell her the cold, hard, medical facts. She wanted to hold on to hope and faith and all of life for her. And yet, she must know so she could help her. She had to face it. She shivered with cold. The night breeze, as always in the bush, had a misty chill as if the wind had gathered moisture from the faraway ocean or unknown billabongs and sprinkled the air at night. It offered compensation for the daytime heat. The moonlight came brightly through the branches of the big gum tree where the cockatoos had been. "Why do they screech that way?" she asked. "Nobody knows," he answered. "Maybe the Aborigines' are right." His face was uplifted, etched against the moonlight. Julie noticed his broad forehead, his heavy dark hair, graying at the temples, and his strong, generous mouth. He looks peaceful, she thought, incredulously. Even happy. What has happened to make him reconciled to all this? "Dr. George,' her voice faltered, but she went on determinedly. "Tell me—about Aunt Isabelle. She seems so much improved — almost herself again since she has been here with you. I couldn't understand why Grandfather had her come with us, but I believe I do now." Dr. George nodded. "Your grandfather is a very wise man, Julie. He has lived a long time and knows much about life. Sometimes it's difficult for you TELL ME OF LOVE young people to agree with his decisions, but he always has your happiness in mind. John Robert Ridgehaven is the kind of man who will admit his mistake, if he makes one." WULIE's dark brows worried together. "I think he has made one with Wally," she told him. 'Have you not noticed how he and Betz have found something special in each other?" "T noticed," he said, simply. "Who could help it? There is magic in the air between them." "Did Aunt Isabelle notice it?" she persisted.. "She did." | "Did it worry her?" Julie went on. "Was she angry because I had brought Betz from America?" "On the contrary,'"' Dr. George laughed. "She simply made the remark that Wally had met his match at last. She realizes that Wally is a fun-loving clown who hasn't made up his mind what he wants to do or be." "So is Betz," Julie said. "She wants every new thing that comes along. Now she wants to marry Wally, and he's engaged to Sue Ellen." Dr. George thought this over carefully. ""Well—that will work out, Julie. Don't let it worry you." "But it does, Dr. George!" Her voice rose tearfully. "I'm so disturbed. About everything. And everybody!" "IT know," he said. "That's understandable. We're all on edge, Julie. That's why I wanted to talk to you. Don't hesitate to tell me how you feel. It will help to let it out." "You know what Ron means 911 DECEMBER 1966 to me," she said, her voice breaking. "I have never loved anyone but him, never wanted anyone but him. I'll just die— if you don't bring him back to me. [ll just die, too." The smile faded from Dr. George's face. He straightened his shoulders, folding his arms across his chest. In a flash he was the sober, professional doctor again. "No, you won't die, Julie. People don't die merely because they want to. You are a Ridgehaven. They don't give up that easily." His eyes were very kind. "T hadn't planned to tell you this at this time, but maybe I should. It will give you hope and courage and something to cling to. Sometimes patients in Aunt Isabelle's condition have what we call remissions, or regressions, in medical terms. The disease simply fades away and the patient is well. There is no explanation for it. I have reason to believe this might be happening to Isabelle."' Julie could hardly breathe as she looked up at Dr. George. The bleak despair in her eyes disappeared. They were luminous with hope. "Oh, Dr. George!'' she whispered. "Thank you for telling me." "We must wait to know for certain,' he added cautiously. "Do not discuss it with her nor anyone else. We must watch her constantly. That is why I have been to the township and sent a telegram to Carolyn Bridges asking her to come here and take charge of Isabelle while I am away. Have Wally meet her plane at noon tomorrow." "T will, Dr. George. We'll all be happy to have Carolyn here. I met her on the jet coming over." "She gets around a lot. I just hope she is in Perth to receive the cablegram. Don't tell Isabelle anything to disturb her," he continued. "'See that she has good, nourishing food. Did you notice that she ate her dinner tonight?" "Oh, I did. Everybody did. She's been so thin—almost starving." Dr. George nodded. "She told me she was hungry for the first time in months. That is a good sign and one reason for my hope. She should have some fresh meat. Maybe you and Cleo can figure that out." "How would mound turkey be? You know, the wild ones that are plentiful in the bush?" "Red meat is better," he said. "But we can't be choosers out here. The sheep are forty miles away. Lamb or mutton stew would nourish her." '"'We'll have meat, Dr. George," Julie promised, "if I have to shoot a kangaroo. We can go out to the sheep in one of our jeeps. Miles don't mean a thing out here, Dr. George." "Quite right," he said. "Miles don't mean a thing if you're helping someone you love. Take care of her for me, Julie. And I will do everything in my power to bring Ron back to you." (To be continued) Opposite page: Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, at Christmas 1965 912 Transparency by Hal Rumel West Boise Stake, Boise, Idaho Mary E. Zurcher, President >, | res Made From Christmas Cards Colorful pictures of beauty and significance can be made by combining appropriate motifs from Christmas cards into a montage for framing. Such subjects as the journey of the Magi, the field of shepherds, the star above Bethlehem, or "the Babe lying in a manger" can be arranged through combining selected suitable elements from landscapes, figures, and designs which adorn your favorite cards. The making of the montage (or even a large mural) can be a family project. First, the subject should be selected, and the size of the picture determined. The separate motifs, carefully cut, are glued on a piece of cardboard, attached only at the bottom of the motif, leaving the top free, to give a three-dimensional effect. Start at the skyline, blending in the colors and patterns as you move downward on the cardboard, taking care to place the "point of interest" cutouts effectively in the design. For happy and illuminating "paper work," let the children cut and paste and make their very own pictures. 914 heep the Cards Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Suggestions by Helen M. Peterson The Christmas bells, the prancing, reindeer, the holly wreaths, and the poinsettia flowers that adorn our Christmas cards are much too beautiful to be discarded. The week after Christmas can be the beginning of a colorful handicraft activity in preparation for next holiday season. Collect the cards and sort them, saving the most decorative for making cutouts. For the following purposes, and for many others which will likely come to mind, the separate motifs can be cut directly from the Christmas cards: 1. Save for decorating Christmas packages. 2. Cut into sizes and designs appropriate for name tags for gifts, making a hole in each for the insertion of ribbon or cord for attaching to the parcels. 3. Use for making a mosaic under glass or cellophane for a child's dressing table, or paste on the top of doll furniture. Some of the motifs can be used for "stand-up" or '"hanging-down"' decorative features. For these purposes, cut the motifs from the cards in squares or triangles, or whatever shape seems to accommodate the motifs. Then paste the cut-outs on a sheet of gold or silver or iridescent foil, and cut the details through both card and foil. Uses for the motifs, thus reenforced, may be: 1. For hanging on the Christmas tree (by making a hole and inserting a hook or piece of string or ribbon). 2. Use as placecards for Christmas dinner or holiday parties (by pasting or gluing a narrow piece of cardboard on the back of the motif to make a standup support). 3. Decorate the mantel or use in arranging a table centerpiece (using a standup support). 915 Tin-[, all Chr ist tndas "Gan Francisco Stake, San Francisco, California ia) Collect fifteen 1% inch x 314 inch diameter cans. Remove tops and bottoms. Be sure the cans are coated on the inside with the goldcolored lining.. Cover the outside of each can with green felt (or any color desired) and, using an ice pick or punch, puncture one hole in each can along the seam. With heavy thread stitch through felt into hole in can and suspend ornament of your desire (bells, cones, or colored balls). Use a board 4 x 114 x 141% inches long for base, covered in the same color as the cans. Glue five cans to 916 Tree Gertrude and Gail Terry this as the start of a pyramid. Stack the remainder. Place the cans so the ornaments hang straight down and secure into position by gluing with strong glue on points of contact.. Trim the outside edges of the pyramid with some type of decorative braid (preferably metallic gold to match the lining of the cans).. For base of tree (tree trunk) take a 4 oz. Can and fill-with sand. Cover with brown felt or any color desired and attach with strong glue to baseboard of the pyramid.. Upon completion, glue a top ornament to the apex can of the pyramid. Lillian L, Collett, President of Danish Cookery A Herilage Dorothy J. Roberts May we share the dishes of a Danish heritage with you—for all to enjoy? Food is a link between the generations—steaming and _— savory, associated with childhood and _ the pleasant memories of beloved families, cousins, aunts, uncles, and grandparents. From mother to daughter, and mother to daughter again, the recipes have been passed, "even to the third and fourth generations." It is heartwarming to learn of great-granddaughters still serving the dumpling soup their great-grandmother cooked for a Transparencies by the author. Model Joy Ann Christensen Danish Queen. I remember my own mother's deft hands forming the little "suinea''-shaped dumplings with the precision of a machine. And what Dane can hear the words "sweet-soup," "'redmush," or "'frikadellar" without experiencing a flood of poignant memories? And then there was the "Sister Cake," so named because it was served to the visiting Relief Society sisters. Let us collect old recipes, cherish our memories, and keep alive our family ties and cultural heritage by occasionally serving the delectable dishes of the past and reviving old tales and old times. As our "living links" leave us, let them not be forgotten. Let their lives of strength, integrity, and sacrifice be ever with us in our gatherings. (Continued on page 930) 917 Winter Wonderland in Fullerton Stake (California ) Lillie T. Garrett, President A "Winter Wonderland" brought Christmas to the Third Ward Relief Society of Fullerton Stake for an early visit in November 1965. Each of twelve attractive booths was designed to look like a little house—a decorative unit of Santa's Village. The supervisor of each booth was dressed to represent the theme of her display. Included were Candy Palace, Ye Olde Bake Shop, Boutique Shop, Magicland Toys, House Beautiful, the Gift Box, The Doll House, the Clothes Cart, the Pinafore House, Stardust House, Bag of Bargains, and Ye Old Money Taker. The pictures reproduced in Christmas colors here are representative of the other outstanding displays.. The Candy Palace - The wide variety of candy featured fudge, divinity, pralines, penuche, candied popcorn, gift-wrapped popcorn, popcorn trees, and a _ bright and beautiful candy house. Christmas and Thanksgiving centerpieces reflected an artistic glow upon the display booth. Chairman Iva Dell Anderson ~ vw {wre "Beauiitul Ot AD A mE House Beautiful - Here in a scene of exquisite design were featured resin grapes, feather flowers, dried flow- -ers, oil paintings, decorated horns of plenty, gold-leafed figurines, felt pictures, crepe paper flowers, Thanksgiving and Christmas center- * pieces, glass grape cluster pictures, and a still life and | fruit picture. Chairman, Carol Whipple Officers of Fullerton Third Ward Relief Society who planned and conducted the bazaar: Lucille Adams, President; Darlene Thornburg, Counselor, who served as chairman of the bazaar; Marilyn Petersen, homemaking leader. The Doll House - This was +:--~ the elegant home of beautiful dolls and everyday dolls and wild and tame stuffed animals. There were "Tammy" and "Barbie" — doll sets and baby dolls with their dainty wardrobes; "Raggedy Ann" and, "Raggedy Andy"; playmate dolls and pixie dolls. The menagerie was inhabited by camels, lions, tigers, ele- _ phants, rabbits, leopards,, and Teddy bears. Tote bags, made especially for children, and small purses and bags for dolls represented "accessories" for very small ladies. Chairman, Gloria Harris Stardust House - The house was decorated with stars & and gold stardust pouring from a gold dipper. The star canopy above the house? Was festooned with hanging jewels, and bells and snowflakes added a shining luster to the scene. On display were felt skirts trimmed with velvet ribbon and jewels; jeweled stockings to hang at the fireplace; decorated candle balls; a gold ° centerpiece, and a metal wreath; candy cane ponies, little-girl corsages, crowns for the Wise Men, Christmas calendars, jeweled trees; a laughing Santa Claus, satin balls ornately encrusted with brilliant gems; and colorful gift tags and gift wrappings. Chairman, Sandra Farrell et Beaded Packages 920 Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts It is as quick as pop! Pop! Pop! To make pretty packages with plain colored wrapping paper, plastic flowers, and pop beads. Besides being attractive, these wrappings are especially sturdy for mailing or using again. More often than not, the plastic flowers are too bulky to be used whole, so they are taken apart and the pieces used separately. This should be kept in mind when the flowers are being purchased. Also, it is desirable that these pieces will fit comparatively flat against the package. It is a good idea to have pop beads in a variety of colors so they may be used to accent or blend with the shades of the flowers. It is best, but not necessary, to cover and decorate the lid of the box separately from the bottom. Pretty gift boxes can be used without covering. The color of the BEADED PACKAGES spots on the lid where the pop beads will go. 921 A narrative of Christmas through the ages—"The Perfect Gift"—was presented by El Paso Stake Relief Society for Christmas 1965. Organ music, a chorus, narration, and colorful slides illustrated the prophecies foretelling the birth of the Christ, his coming to the earth in mortality, his message, and his sacred mission. The appearance of the Christ to the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere was dramatically presented, with words from The Book of Mormon repeating the glory that came upon the Promised Land. Through song and background music, the restoration of the gospel was portrayed, and the observance of Christmas through the years, with the applied significance of "The Perfect Gift," was detailed in tableau and portrait arrangements. The picture at the top of the page represents the illumined journey of the Wise Men, and the lower picture illustrates the packaged gifts for children of the present generation. Lavinia B. Jackson is president of El Paso Stake Relief Society. The dramatization was written and directed by Barbara Johnson and Aleen Rowley. The Home llecaraied y ith a Christmas Welcome Homes in Salt Lake City, Utah Transparencies by J. M. Heslop A Christmas tree for children, decorated with popcorn chains, cookies, and Santa Claus. Vernon and Victoria Cooley in the Vernon Cooley home. 924 | ~~ <@, " a * & 5. "Ae "hs "A" Ve <9" 4 >< 4 ae ay 7 ' aq ra A iiiigtmas =" come at the J. A. Hale home Roses, tassels, and crystal prisms make a radiant tree. Lydia Kalt waiting for Christmas in the Ronald N. Kalt home. Santa Claus, red tassels, and snowdrifts on a Christmas tree, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah A brilliant and glowing Christmas tree above the city lights, Mervyn S. Bennion home. A tree adorned in red and gold, Z. C. M. I. Aisle of Christmas Trees, Salt Lake City, Utah Christmas comes to the Mervyn S. Bennion home— Michael, seated, admires the decorated stockings made by his mother. "The Wise and Foolish Virgins' by William Blake (1775-1827), English (Metropolitan Museum, New York City, Rogers Fund, 1914) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6— "Virtue Nourishes the Soul'' (for April 1967) Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University William Blake's watercolor of ""The Wise and Foolish Virgins" visually portrays in beautifully rhythmic lines and forms the message of Matthew 25:1-9. "Then shall the Kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, anl five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves." Virtue prepares one so that when the trump is sounded he is ready. As Thoreau said, '""Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open." William Blake, the great English visionary poet and artist, like most artists, made it possible for us to see his inner thoughts and convictions. These did not coincide with the thinking of other leaders of his time, and so he was not accepted and his fame has come in more reecnt years. All great art is an expression of the human spirit. It is a record of the artist's experience with life and his environment. Blake was a devout Christian and claims that his paintings and poetry are results of inspiration, almost as if they were gifts forced upon him. He said that the fine arts are essentially religious, and that they interpret the world and life in language of the soul. He implies that they are windows into the transcendental, invisible world, invisible to mortal sight, but presenting wider prospects, a vision of beauty in closest correspondence with the aspirations and efforts of mankind. Most of Blake's paintings and prints have a poetic, unreal quality in the rhythmic movement of the forms which he drew almost intuitively. He used no models for his figures, and invented his own devices which he used over and over as symbols. 929 DECEMBER 1966 A Heritage of Danish Cookery (continued from page 917) The recipes which follow have been modified and changed by different families and by modern conveniences and supplies. DUMPLING SOUP Combine beef broth and chicken broth, cooked separately, from 2 good-sized pieces of brisket and a shin or knuckle bone, added to broth from one hen or rooster, each flavored with one onion and a bunch of celery leaves, parsley stems, and green onion tops tied into a tight bundle with thread and dropped into the soup the last two hours, and removed with the meat and bones. Broth should be skimmed of nearly all the floating fat. Add, and simmer until tender: 114 qts. Raw, sliced carrots 1 sliced parsnip, raw 1/4 tsp. Ginger. Add the dumplings to the simmering soup. DUMPLINGS Put into a heavy fry pan: 2 slices bread, white or wheat, half-andhalf 2 c. Milk, poured over bread 14, tsp. Nutmeg, and mash bread well into milk. Add: 1 cube (14 lb.) butter Bring all to boil, stirring well Add all at once: 1144 cup flour, and stir well, and continue folding and stirring until it is done, and forms a ball. Remove into a bowl and cool. Add: 2 eggs, one at a time, stirring well. Y4, tsp. Salt. Form into little dumplings, round in the center, with pointed ends; do this with a teaspoon by pressing the dough against the side of the bowl, being sure to dip the spoon into the hot soup for each dumpling. Drop them into the simmering soup and cook till they rise to the top. Add, just before serving: finely cut parsley sprinkled over the soup. 930 GREEN KALE SOUP (Gronkaal) 5 or 6 cups stock from 2 ham hocks boiled with an onion and skimmed of fat. Add: 1 heaping tablespoon of rice and cook 14 hour. Add: 2 diced raw carrots 1 diced raw potato Simmer till tender. Add: 2 cups finely chopped kale 34, cup finely chopped onion tops or chives Boil 5 minutes Add: 14 cup finely chopped parsley. Remove from heat. Add: 4 cup cream or canned milk, and serve. FRIKADELLER 2 slices bread, white or wheat, soaked in 14 cup water. Stir well. Add: 1/4, teaspoon nutmeg 2 tablespoons chopped onion or green onion tops 1% teaspoon allspice 14 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon salt 2 rounded tablespoons flour 1 egg 114 lb. Ground chuck (the 14 lb. May be pork sausage). Form into small, round cakes and fry in 2 tablespoons butter, lightly till barely done. SISTER CAKE 14 cup milk; or canned milk diluted with equal amount of water 114 teaspoon cardamom, preferably pounded from the whole spice Scald the mixture and add: 1 cube butter (14 lb.) 14 cup sugar 34, teaspoon salt Stir and cool and add: I dry yeast cake soaked in 4% cup water. Stir. Add: 1 cup flour 2 eggs beaten one at a time 2 cups flour. Beat until smooth. Add: 1% cup currants Let rise to double, punch down twice. Put into 2 loaf pans. Brush tops with beaten egg white. Sprinkle with 14 cup sugar and 1% cup slivered almonds or raisins. Let rise to double. Bake at 375 degrees for about l% hour. SWEET SOUP 1 cup dried prunes 34, cup raisins 14, cup currants Soak a day and a night in the refrigerator in a bottle with water to cover well. Pour into a pan. Add: 1 package frozen raspberries 1 tablespoon minute tapicoa 114 cups water A HERITAGE OF DANISH COOKERY 2 or 3 tablespoons sugar. Let stand till berries thaw. Bring to a boil and boil 1 minute or 2. Drop a stick of cinnamon into the mixture and let stand for ten minutes. Stir. Remove the cinnamon stick, wash, and dry to use again. Serve either warm or boil and boil one or two minutes. RED MUSH 1 pk. Frozen rhubarb 4 Santa Rosa deep red plums, cut from stones and stewed until tender in water to cover, with 3 tablespoons sugar added. Add rhubarb, and stir well or blend in blender. There should be about 244 cups of sauce. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and 44 cup minute tapioca. Let stand a few minutes. Then bring to a boil, stirring, and boil 2 minutes. Remove and cool. Serve with cream. Most any combination of fruits or juices may be used for this Red Mush. FOR A NEW HOME Iris W. Schow We shall not miss the old house much, because We'll make the new home all the old home was; The beacon light of home forever gleams In well-loved faces and familiar dreams. HOW FAR? Rowena Jensen Bills How far is it to Bethlehem, And can | find my way Through tinseled street, a blatant horn And merry-maker's play, Through the jostling, weary crowd, The din of music played; Past shop window's neon glare — (The Christmas we have made!) Past all the false and frenzied flourish To a manger where The Christ Child waits for us if we But seek for him through prayer? 931 @ The war years were over and the world had settled into an uneasy peace. The children were still scattered across the land. Christmas came and Doctor and I were alone. This was the first time since we were married that some of the children would not be with us. We felt rather lonely but were determined that we would keep the usual Christmas spirit. Doctor put up the greens and a large Christmas tree before the front window. We decorated it with care and we thought it was the loveliest tree we had ever 932 Myrtle Stowell Call had. The room looked very gay, and the gifts under the tree added charm and color with their bright wrappings and gay ribbons. I had always wanted to give Doctor a special gift at Christmas time, a gift that would endure and be a reminder of my love and devotion. The year before, on the day after Christmas,. I went to Edgley's jewelry store. I chose a man's ring with a beautiful diamond in a lovely setting. I had Mr. Edgley put it away, and I Yer ey ou So Sn So" SS arranged to make payments on it every month. Finally, it was paid for, and a few days before Christmas I went to the store to pick it up. The jeweler put it in a beautiful blue velvet box, wrapped it in bright paper, and decked it with ribbons. Later I put the box in a larger box nested in tissue paper. Then I put beautiful wrappings on it. Christmas Eve came. Friends dropped in. Helene and Vaun each called long distance to wish us a happy Christmas. Finally, we were alone. We knew that all was well. As the stillness, which is a part of Christmas Eve, settled over the house, we decided to break an old custom. On Christmas morning the family had _ always gathered around the tree and had opened our presents together. Tonight, we would open the special presents, our gifts to each other. We went to the tree for our packages and returned to our chairs before the dying embers in the fireplace. I laid my gift on Doctor's knees, and in my hand he put a small box. He shook his box. "Is it a shirt or a sweater?" he asked. "You can never guess," I assured him, "so you might as well open it." I watched breathlessly as he removed the wrappings. At last he drew out the velvet box. His interest increased. He opened it carefully and the sparkle of the stone matched that in his eyes. "How on earth did you manage this?" he exclaimed. "What a beauty!" I told him the story of how I had put it away and paid for it over the past year. He had a twinkle in his eyes when he asked, "'Aren't you going to open your present now?' "T can hardly wait," I said, as I began to remove the wrappings. As they fell away, a lovely blue velvet box lay in my hand. With trembling fingers, I lifted the lid. Inside was a beautiful diamond ring. We looked at each other and laughed. Doctor had chosen it right after the last Christmas. We had both been paying on diamond rings. "T'll bet Mr. Edgley got a lot of laughs over this," said Doctor, "he knew both of our secrets." He then took my hand and drew from my finger the ring he had given me more than thirty years before. It was frail and worn. He took the new ring from the box. "'This is the kind of diamond I wanted to give you then," he said. As he placed the ring on my finger, he spoke gently the same words he had said so long ago, "T love you, I need you, together we cannot fail."' 933 Ps _ Se ey QUILTING IS A PLEASURE Lydia Lovell Evans, Delta, Utah, learned to quilt at the age of nine and became an expert in washing and carding wool. Her quilts adorn many homes throughout the West and have won a number of prizes at county fairs. She keeps several on hand for presenting as gifts to the needy. An excellent cook, she makes regulat visits to the sick and homebound, taking samples of her cooking and baking as gifts. Mother of six children, she is blessed with fourteen grandchildren and twentyseven great-grandchildren who reflect in their lives the talents and artistry of their beloved grandmother and great-grandmother. Sister Evans has served Relief Society in many capacities since her membership in young womanhood. Elsie Clegg, Downey, Idaho, regards quilting as a handicraft worthy of her skill and her ideals of beauty in design and craftsmanship. She calls herself ''a saver and a piecer,'' utilizing small scraps of beautifully colored materials to make her sunburst patterns and her intricately patterned ''blocks'"' of pleasing harmony. Her applique quilts reflect the lovely colors and shapes of natural flowers and leaves, with the added effectiveness of artistic arrangement. Sister Clegg loves to serve in Relief Society. She is devoted to her daughter, her six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren, remembering them with gifts of handicraft and homemade candy. sson Department (E SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 78 — Discipleship (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 100) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is comforted to know that all things work together for good for those who are righteous, which strengthens ZION SHALL BE REDEEMED Because of the knowledge of Zion's greatness revealed by earlier prophets and because of the revelations he himself had received, the Prophet Joseph was deeply concerned with the establishment of Zion. (Ether 13:2-12; D&C 58:2-14.) This heartening message was received from the Lord: And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season (D&C 100: 13). In the due time of the Lord, the center place of Zion or the New Jerusalem will yet stand upon the land of America. Her as a disciple of the Lord. THE LORD PRESERVES HIS FAITHFUL SERVANTS When persecution broke out in Jackson County, the brethren sent Oliver Cowdery to Kirtland to report to the First Presidency. Soon thereafter, Orson Hyde, who later became an apostle, and John Gould were sent to Jackson County with instructions from the First Presidency. While the Prophet and his party were in Canada, the Lord revealed that these two brethren were in his hands, and that if they kept the commandments they would be saved. (D&C 100:14.) From the following we learn the experience of servants of the Lord as they endeavor to serve him: 935 DECEMBER 1966 During the entire history of the Latter-day Saints, the Lord has preserved His faithful servants, often miraculously, in danger on land and sea, among enemies and false friends, until their mission was completed (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 634). PROMISES AND PROPHECIES The last three verses of Section 100 contain some promises and prophecies regarding the saints and the Lord's work. Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the Church. For I will raise up unto myself a pure people, that will serve me in righteousness; And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his commandments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen (verses 15-17). This lesson is concerned with the promises and prophecies in those verses: (1) All things shall work together for the good of the sanctified who will find rich blessings; (2) Those who keep the commandments will be saved; and (3) The Lord will raise up a people who will serve him. Class Discussion How may we find comfort through the gospel? "BE COMFORTED" In time of worry, concern, and tribulation, the member of The Church of Jesus Christ may be blessed by the Comforter, who is the Holy Ghost. (John 14:26; 15:26.) One may receive the witness of the truth which the Lord bestows upon the sincere seeker with that Spirit. Peace in this world, rest, and comfort are the blessings of 936 obedience. (SMITH, JOSEPH F-.: Gospel Doctrine, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1956 edition, pp. 125-127.) Comfort comes to all those who seek for that blessing. Missionaries find comfort amid difficulties and discouragements. The sons. Of Mosiah rejoiced with Alma as they related their missionary experiences among the Lamanites. Because they had prepared themselves by prayer and fasting,... It came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his Spirit, and said unto them: Be comforted. And they were comforted (Alma 17:10). It is also written that those who mourn will find comfort. (Matt. 5:4; 3 Nephi 12:4.) To those mourning for loved ones who have departed this life, the knowledge of conscious existence after death continues to be a bulwark of strength. Faithful, devoted service in this life brings its rewards. (D&C 59:2; 63:49.) Every Latter-day Saint finds comfort in the many prophecies regarding the ultimate victory of the Lord's work. The Spirit testifies to this truth bringing joy and happiness. Moroni, who was the last Nephite historian, was fearful lest the readers of The Book of Mormon in the last days might not heed his message because he was not mighty in writing. The Lord's answer was that if men will come unto him in faith he will make them mighty, and the Lord will show the people that faith, hope, and charity will bring them to him in the last days. When Moroni heard these words his fears left, for he was comforted. (Ether 12:24-30.) In the promises to the saints of our times, the Lord makes known that "all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly"' (D&C 100:15). To walk uprightly is to keep the commandments. If the member of the Church is salvation oriented, he will walk uprightly before the Lord, and he will acknowledge that this life is purposeful. His acceptance of trials, tribulations, sorrow caused by death of loved ones, and all other vicissitudes through which he may pass in life, will be accepted as a part of the total experience, and therefore, good. (Ibid., 122:5-8.) Only he, however, who keeps the commandents can understand that knowledge, peace, and comfort give rest and understanding. SANCTIFICATION OF THE CHURCH To become sanctified is the goal of every knowledgeable Latter-day Saint. (D&C 88:67-68.) Elder Marion G. Romney has told us that through the gate of baptism and the ordinance of confirmation into the Church we have begun this process.... Through these principles and ordinances we were cleansed and purified. Having thus washed our garments in the blood of Christ, we entered through the straight gate and stood redeemed on the narrow way which leads to life eternal. It should have then been, and it should now be, the controlling desire of every Church member, and it is the desire of every member who is on the way to eternal life always to retain this redeemed status (Conference Report, October 1956, page 17). To be born again by the Holy Ghost is a step to sanctification or the state of holiness, by changing from the carnal to _ the spiritual state. (Moroni 10:32- 33; 3 Nephi 27:19-21.) Sometimes this admonition is stated LESSON DEPARTMENT in terms of seeking perfection. (3 Nephi 12:48.) Throughout the change, one is to apply the principle of repentance. The prophetic statement that the Church will become sanctified is a requisite to the eventual building up of Zion upon the Americail Continent. The Lord's army in that day will constitute a large number, greater than that which existed in 1834, when the saints were expelled from Jackson County, Missouri. (D&C 105: 31.) Although the number of those who will be sanctified will be great, there is no assurance that this will include all who are members of the Church. Sanctification in this life and enduring to the end will warrant receiving the celestial kingdom. (D&C 88:2, 116.) As members of the Church follow the admonition of the Lord to sanctify themselves, so much nearer is brought the day when Zion shall be redeemed. (D&C 43:9, 11, 16; 133:4.) A PURE PEOPLE Closely associated with the building of Zion is the need for the people to become pure in heart. Class Discussion What does it mean to you to be "pure in heart''? The Lord says that his people will be pure in heart for they will serve him in righteousness. (D&C 100:16.) Zion is the pure in heart. (D&C 97: 21.) This thought is in harmony with the definition of a saint given by the Prophet Benjamin: "For the natural man is an enemy of God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the 937 DECEMBER 1966 Lord, and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father" (Mosiah 3:19). We are to become saints in very deed, or pure in heart; that is, we are to change from the natural man to the spiritual man who has. Been' born again. (Mosiah 5:7.) The pure in heart, Jesus said, would see God. (Matt. 5:8.) Class Discussion Can one be eligible for the celestial kingdom without purity of heart? STEPS TO DISCIPLESHIP To become sanctified by purifying one's heart demands complete and full allegiance to the teachings of Jesus Christ. This idea of discipleship is discipline of self to surrender completely one's life as a follower. How may one be a follower of the Master in this sense? Here are some guidelines that will, if applied, bring success: (1) Cleave to the truth by study; (2) Prayer; (3) Righteous conduct; (4) Obey the prophets; (5) Church service. 1. Cleave to the Truth by Study Without knowledge there is no salvation. (D&C 131:6.) Gospel knowledge, if applied, will increase faith. One of the principal reasons for lack of interest in the gospel and the resultant inactivity in Church work is the lack of understanding of gospel principles. Elder John A. Widstoe concludes that applied knowledge brings strong faith. Knowledge tested and tried is the beginning of faith. For that reason "'it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." The extent of a per- 938 son's faith depends in part on the amount of his knowledge. The more knowledge he gathers, the more extensive becomes his field of faith. The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge, but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge. Thus a man of great knowledge may have weak faith, while one of limited information may have strong faith (Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1957, page 163). If faith is to be enlarged to bring about salvation, it must be placed in truth. (Alma 2:21.) As the certainty of knowledge also increases, the ability to discern truth is augmented because truth is discernible to the faithful. (Ibid., verse 35.). In a world beset with false doctrines, theories, and ideologies inconsistent with the teachings of the gospel, it is now increasingly necessary that Latter-day Saints be able to discern between truth and error. The Lord told his ancient disciples that, in order to keep from being deceived, they should treasure up his word. And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather the remainder of his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:37). 2. Prayer In Section 100 (D&C), the Lord promises salvation to all who keep his commandments. The importance of prayer in the keeping of the commandments is indicated in his promise, as follows: And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his command- ments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen (D&C 100:17). Only those who have enjoyed the influence of family and secret prayer can truly understand the relationship of prayer to salvation. Even in the beginning Adam was counseled to "call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:8). From then to the present dispensation, considerable emphasis has been placed upon this important principle. The place of prayer in one's life was stated by Nephi: ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul (2 Nephi 32:9). The Latter-day Saint who strives to keep the commandments, increasing in knowledge, learns an important principle of prayer given in a modern revelation, as follows: Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you; And if ye ask anything that is not expedient for you, it shall turn unto your condemnation (D&C 88:63-65). In a day when many efforts are made to deceive both young and old, it is essential that families follow the injunction of the Lord to hold family prayer. Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed (3 Nephi 18:21). The counsel is "Watch and pray that ye enter not into tempLESSON DEPARTMENT tation" (Matt. 26:41; D&C 10:5). 3. Righteous Conduct There is probably nothing that will keep a person from praying and seeking to follow the Lord's instruction more than does sin. He who treasures his membership in the Church will repent speedily of those things that will take him away from the Lord's Spirit and communion with the saints. 4. Obey the Prophets It is safe to say that no one can be a successful Latter-day Saint and disregard the teachings of the prophets who live today. To court disfavor of the Lord by rejecting his servants is to lose one's exaltation (D&C 84:35-38; 49-53). And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place. But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them (D&C 124:45-46). 5. Church Service Class Discussion Wherein does Church service pring salvation to us? If we serve the Lord devotedly we must also serve our fellow men. Participation gives communion with fellow Church members and thus the desire to keep the commandments is increased and faith is enlarged. The development of talents and gifts is possible through service to others. President George F. Richerds expressed it this way: "One might ask: Why all the activity we see in the Church, in the min- 939 DECEMBER 1966 istry abroad, in the ministry at home, in the stakes and wards, in the priesthood quorums and auxiliary associations, in genealogy and temple work, in Church school and seminary work, etc.? The answer might be _ briefly given thus: The salvation of man depends upon it. It is the work and glory of God to accomplish the salvation of his children, by the plan of the Gospel which he has revealed. The religious activities seen in the Church and in which we are engaged are for the purpose, and are assisting the Lord in the noblest work, the most important service in which man may be engaged" (Conference Report, April 1936, page 79). It is wisdom to understand this principle, said the Prophet Benjamin. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17). CONCLUSION The Lord has made specific promises to his followers that if they walk uprightly before him, seeking to sanctify themselves and, thereby, to sanctify the Church, they shall be comforted. The Lord says that he will raise up a people who are the pure in heart. For us, the wise decision is to be one of those who shall have an opportunity to build Zion upon the earth and to be one with the sanctified to inherit the richest blessings the Lord bestows upon his faithful children. For Consideration Do you believe that a discussion with your family on the steps in becoming a disciple of the Lord emphasizing why it is so important for each one to become a disciple would help them? RETURNING Eva Willes Wangsgaard Home had remained the same—the lighted church, The winding country road, the singing wires, Snow-whitened hills seen through a leafless birch, And dormant fir trees decked with glassed in fires. The sky was blue as any Christmas card And clear as | remembered long ago, Arched by a Milky Way and duly starred To blue the shadows on unsullied snow. Yet it was still—no jingling bell or sleigh Sent out a merry not of welcoming— The silence was estranged from yesterday, No falling snowflake spread a crystal wing. Then into solitude a great plane flew And. Even home was linked with change, | knew. 540 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 78 — ''For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as | am in the Father" (D&C 93:20). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To realize that through obedience the promises When our budget is stretched to its limits or the actions of our children seem unbearable, or our teenager has just announced his freedom from _responsibility— when moments of despair or frustration come—have we not asked ourselves, "Is it worth it? Am I succeeding in the things that are really important?" After such a day of personal frustration, when nearly everything seems to have gone wrong, how many times have we—you and I—walked out into the cool of the night and looked up at the stars? Billions of light years away, their radiance winking at us, God's creations are flung like powdered jewels across the sky. This awesome sight helps us gain a degree of tranquility and strength. We are reminded through almost every form of communication — newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and conversation—that many in the world lack high standards and values. What is it that men seek? Many seem to strive all their lives for power, dominion, wealth, possessions, prestige, and _ privilege. What do we seek? To what do of God to man are limitless. We give our time and talents? Do we hunger for knowledge and strive to gain it? Do we seek truth? Do we long to have our plans come to fruition? Are we helping to further the Lord's work by keeping his commandments? For those who do, the Lord has said, "They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things. All things are theirs"? (D&C 76:55, 59). One need not look only to the hereafter for blessings for having obeyed the commandments. Listen to the Lord: 'Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27); "... The fulness of the earth is yours" (D&C 59:16). The promise to the worthy faithful is that they may "dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever' (D&C 76:62). A time will come when "'nothing shall be withheld all... Shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ" (D&C 121:28-29). 941 HOMEMAKING MEETING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but that it can be a hazard to family happiness Note: if over-extended. The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Latter-day Saints are counseled by Church leaders to stay out of debt. They are reminded of the serious problems and unhappiness caused by debt. Credit buying involves spending income before it is realized and, unless families use credit or installment buying wisely, they may find themselves in serious financial straits. No matter how carefully a family works out its financial management plan, there are times when it becomes necessary to use some form of credit. The very nature of modern economic structures, not only in America but in some other countries as well, is based on a system of credit. Monthly bills for telephone and utilities are standard practice, and many other services depend almost entirely on the policy of credit which is established between businesses and their customers. The ordinary commercial bank is organized primarily to give commercial credit as well as other services to their customers. Credit is used to establish con- 942 fidence in the ability, reputation, and character of an individual or a family. This is termed '"'credit rating," and it is essential to have in modern business practice. The self-supporting and selfsufficient family can use credit in emergencies and do so with a feeling of confidence and selfrespect. Yet for the greatest amount of satisfaction and peace of mind, credit, if necessary, should be used wisely as a tool in strengthening a family's ecoomic future rather than as a crutch to bolster an already overburdened financial structure. THE USE OF CREDIT Understanding the use of credit is essential if it is to be beneficial. Credit, when used, should be looked upon as a part of the whole family business plan determined by wise choices and decisions and harmonized to agree with the best reasoning of the group. Although the use of credit increases the purchasing power and thus makes possible the pr: - vision of added goods or services, repayment for the amount bor- rowed or credit extended, together with interest for its use, must eventually be made. Credit is simply deferred payment and a payment which generally involves extra costs. For example: a refrigerator may be priced $219.00. If purchased on the installment plan the dealer may require a $20.00 down payment and $10.00 monthly payments for 24 months. Total credit cost 0 0 $260.00 Cash price --.--.---..---.--------- 219.00 Difference __ -.--.-.--2. E eee 41.00 The saving of $41.00 could be a significant factor in determining to save the money beforehand, and pay cash for the refrigerator. To use credit intelligently, the consumer must be sure that he is fully aware of the terms of the contract and that the satisfaction derived from its use is worth the price. The credit load should never be so heavy as to cause tension in the family during the repayment period. A_ thorough analysis of available types of credit or installment buying is necessary in order to choose the source that offers the best buy with the least hazard of extras: fees, penalties, salary assignments or possibilities of repossession of goods or property. In some instances there are no "carrying charges" or interest payments for credit extended for a year or less. It would be wise to contract for payments which will complete the purchase in less than a year. Many people do not know what credit costs; they only know how much the payments are per month. Learning to use credit in ways that contribute to individual and family happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only real justification for its use. WHEN IS CREDIT JUSTIFIED The use of credit is never justified if repayments exceed the ability to pay. The ease of obtaining credit seems to make it difficult for some families to keep their spending consistent with their income. Many families who manage their finances well use credit for the purchase of necessary commodities and profit by doing so, while others are caught in a_ continual round of debt which they cannot control. What should be bought on credit — a house, a car, furniture? Is the desire to possess some commodity sufficient justification for its purchase? Discuss the dangers involved. One valid reason for using credit is to make possible additional earning power. Education, including training ln special fields and professions, is increasingly being financed by credit plans. The purchase of equipment for the carrying on of a profession or occupation would also be included in this category. To Discuss There are certain questions a family should be concerned about which, if answered honestly and realistically, can guide in making intelligent decisions about the use of credit. 1. Is the use of this credit worth the added cost to the family? 2. Can the family budget justly assume the credit loan? Can it meet the loan payments completely and on time? 3. Will this transaction be a good thing for the family as a whole? 4. Does the credit add a needed and essential utility or satisfaction? 5. Are the terms of the contract completely understood so that the transaction is free from unexpected penalties or hazards? 943 DECEMBER 1966 If the family cannot answer all of these questions in the affirmative, they may be sure that they are treading on dangerous ground and that it would be well for them to refrain from jeopardizing their future by the contracting of unjustifiable debt. Elder Thorpe B. Isaacson gave the following advice in an address delivered in General Conference, April 1963: It would be well if a man and his wife could sit down and go over their finances together, particularly pertaining to their indebtedness, and plan to get out of debt and not go in any deeper, unless they know there is a way in which they can repay their obligations. Women would do well to know more about their husbands' finances and to make sure that they have a sound fiscal policy in their own family. They would do well if they could save a little for the future, practice the law of thrift, not be extravagant and wasteful, and save a little of what they make and not spend it all. It would be well if a family could go without some things until they can afford them. List the Disadvantages and Advantages of credit buying. DISADVANTAGES You will be in debt! Cost of article is increased. Over-buying and extravagance are encouraged. Buyers sometimes feel less responsibility to the payment of their obligations when not paying cash. 5. Unforeseen emergencies may make repayment difficult. ~ ~ See ADVANTAGES 1. Buyer has use of article while paying for it. 2. Installment buying may encourage thrift in persons who do not save unless obligated to meet payments. 3. Some things may be acquired that otherwise would not be possible. SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3—"'Follow Thou Me" (2 Nephi 31:10) Reference: ''On Earth and in Heaven,'' Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 20 and 21) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To assist Latter-day Saint women in understanding the ordinance of baptism and to point out the individual responsibilities involved in this everlasting covenant. FOLLOW-UP Have a class member relate the reaction of a child, or of an adult in relation to a_ special blessing as a guiding influence. 944 INTRODUCTION Baptism as a word and as a religious rite has become so familiar to us that often we may lose awareness of those aspects which give it significance as an essential gospel ordinance. Perhaps we may not know the specific answers to such questions as (1) Who and how was the first person on earth baptized? (2) Were the prophets of old baptized? (3) Were baptisms performed anciently on the American Conti-- nent? (4) Why is immersion the approved method of baptism? (5) What symbolism is involved in the ordinance of baptism? (6) Why was Jesus, the Christ, he who was without sin, baptized? This lesson will give consideration to these questions, correlating closely with lessons 20 and 21 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual. BAPTISM IN ANCIENT TIMES That Adam, our first mortal father, was baptized, is recorded in the following words: And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever (Moses 6:64-66). That baptisms were performed in the days of the Old Testament patriarchs and prophets is indicated in the following scripture: Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. The Son of God, even as our LESSON DEPARTMENT fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost... (Moses 8:24). IN ANCIENT AMERICA That baptism as an_ ordinance essential to salvation was well known to Israel's prophets anciently, has ample scriptural support. Baptisms were also' performed anciently upon the American Continent. Hundreds of years before the advent of the Savior, inspired men foretold the coming of the Messiah, in the meridian of time, and taught the principles of the gospel, including the significance and _ the blessing of baptism. Consequently, numerous baptisms were performed before the birth of the Savior, as is evidenced in the following scripture: And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the Lamanites with such great power and authority, for they had power and authority given unto them that they might speak, and they also had what they should speak given unto them— Therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment of the Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were eight thousand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zarahemla and round about baptized unto repentance, and were convinced of the wickedness of the traditions of their fathers (Helaman. 5:18-19). Nearly six hundred years before the voice of John was heard in the wilderness of Judaea, crying, '"Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight" (Matt. 3:3), the prophet Lehi, upon the American Continent, spoke prophetically of the coming of the Messiah, of the preparatory mission of John who would baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan, and that he "should baptize with water; even that he 945 DECEMBER 1966 should baptize the Messiah with water" (1 Nephi 10:9). Lehi foretold that after the baptism of Jesus with water that he (John) should behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. At the time the risen Lord visited the Nephites upon the American Continent, he spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come forth. ' And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the Lord and did kiss his feet. And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he arose and stood before him. And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven. And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave them power to baptize. And he said unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among you. Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them (3 Nephi 11: 18-23). "TO FULFIL ALL RIGHTEOUSNESS" During the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Emperor of Rome, the people in the vicinity of Jerusalem were aroused by the strange preaching of one called John, son of Zacharias, later to be known as John the Baptist. The burden of his message was repentance and baptism for the remission of sin. "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matt. 3:2) came from the voice in the wilder- 946 ness. Those who professed faith, and confessed their sins, he baptized by immersion in water, proclaiming, "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire' (Matt. 3:11). To this same prophet preacher, Jesus came journeying from his home in Galilee to Jordan to be baptized of him. But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:14-17). The prophet Nephi saw in vision the events surrounding the baptism of Jesus and received by revelation knowledge as to why the Savior, who was without sin and had no need for repentance, should be baptized. And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even by water! And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by water? Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments. Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove. And again, it showeth unto the children of men the straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by which they should enter, he having set the example before them. And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father? And the Father said: Repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son. And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things which ye have seen me do (2 Nephi 31:5-12). For Discussion The foregoing scripture points out several ways by which the baptism of Jesus might "fulfil all righteousness": 1. Setting an example to all men as to the method (immersion) and importance of the ordinance of baptism, his admonition being "Follow thou me... And do the things which ye have seen me do" (2 Nephi 31: 10, 12). 2. Witnessing to the Father that he would be obedient unto him in all things. 3. Evidencing that he was willing to humble himself before the Father. Would the following reasons for man's being baptized apply to the baptism of Jesus? Discuss. 1. For the remission of sin. 2. As a precedent to receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost. 3. To gain salvation. 4. To get on the straight and narrow path that leads to the celestial kingdom. 5. To gain membership in the kingdom of God on earth (the Church). LESSON DEPARTMENT WHAT IS BAPTISM? Baptism is an ordinance of salvation, admitting men to membership in the earthly Church and making it possible for them to enter and progress in the celestial kingdom of the Father.... Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. A man may be saved, after the judgment, in the terrestrial kingdom, or in the telestial kingdom, but he can never see the celestial kingdom of God, without being born of water and the Spirit. He may receive a glory like unto the moon, [i. E. Of which the light of the moon is typical], or a star, [ie. Of which the light of the stars is typical], but he can never come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels; to the general assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant, unless he becomes as a little child, and is taught by the Spirit of God (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 12; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 20). Baptism is spoken of as a "new and everlasting covenant" in modern scripture (D&C 22:1). It is new in that it has been revealed anew in this day and everlasting since it was inaugurated in the beginning as being essential to salvation and will continue to be required of men as long as the earth stands. In lesson 20 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, are these succinct statements: Salvation is offered to man by covenant. That is, man enters into a contractual agreement with the Lord whereby man may be saved in the 947 DECEMBER 1966 kingdom of God on certain terms and conditions. The gospel itself is the everlasting covenant by which salvation is offered, and man accepts the provisions of the gospel covenant by being baptized. Baptism is in effect the signing of the gospel covenant by man.. In ancient America a goodly number of Nephites had assembled at the waters of Mormon, and Alma "'did preach unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord" (Mosiah 18: 7). And it came to pass that Alma said unto them: as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life— Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10); 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 20). Class Activity In the foregoing scripture, Alma speaks of baptism as a covenant and enumerates a number of things that man must be willing to do in order that he shall have in return: 1. The Spirit of the Lord, that is, receive the gift and companionship of the Holy Ghost. 948 2. Be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, and have eternal life. What are the seven terms and conditions of the baptismal covenant, as summarized by Alma, at the waters of Mormon? BY WAY OF COMMANDMENT Baptism is not merely an invitation for men to come and partake of the blessings of the gospel. Having instituted it as an essential to salvation, the Father desires all who will comply with this saving ordinance to have the benefits to be derived therefrom. It is given to man by way of commandment, as is attested by the following words of the Savior, spoken to the Nephites: Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. And now behold, these are the words ye shall say, calling them by name, saying: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one. And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize (3 Nephi 11: 23-28). "BAPTISM REQUIRED IN ALL AGES" The Prophet Joseph Smith stated that, { In the former ages of the world, before the Saviour came in the flesh, "the saints" were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ to come, because there never was any other name whereby man could be saved; and after he came in the flesh and was crucified, then the saints were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, crucified, risen from the dead and ascended into heaven, that they might be buried in baptism like him, and be raised in glory like him, that as there was but one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and one God and Father of us all, even so there was but one door to the mansions of (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 266). IN SIMILITUDE "All ordinances of the gospel are ordained in such a way as to teach and symbolize eternal gospel truths" (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 21). The sacramental bread and water which are in remembrance of the Savior's sacrifice of flesh and blood, is an example. Symbolism is likewise involved in the ordinance of baptism by immersion; symbolizing the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. The ordinance is performed by an authorized bearer of the Priesthood and consists of immersion in water and the recitation of the following prescribed baptismal prayer: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of a Holy Ghost. Amen (3 Nephi 11: 25). For definite reasons, immersion of the body in water is the only approved mode of baptism. The example set by Jesus, who was baptized of John, confirms this statement. It is of interest bliss. LESSON DEPARTMENT to note that "Sprinkling or pouring did not come into vogue until two or three centuries after Christ, and such a practice was not universal until about the 13th century, A. D." (SmitH, JoSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 323). President Joseph Fielding Smith further states: Baptism cannot be by any other means than immersion of the entire body in water, for the following reason: 1. It is in the similitude of the death, burial, and _ resurrection of Jesus Christ, and of all others who have received the resurrection. 2. Baptism is also a birth and is performed in the similitude of the birth of a child into this world. 3. Baptism is not only a figure of the resurrection, but also is literally a transplanting or resurrection from one life to another—from the life of sin to the life of spiritual life (Ibid., pages 323-324). Further clarification of reason number 2 is found in Moses 6: 58-60, as follows: Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these' things freely unto your children, saying: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten, that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory. For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified. Class Activity 1. What does it mean "to teach 949 DECEMBER 1966 these things freely unto your children''? 2. Need a mother wait to do this until a child nears the time for baptism? If not, how may she prepare him for this ordinance at a younger age? 3. Following are some of the aspects of baptism important for the child to know. Discuss as time permits: a. Baptism is a commandment of the Lord. B. Baptism admits to membership in the Church. C. Baptism is the pattern set by Jesus. D. Baptism is by immersion. E. Baptism brings a remission of sin. F. After baptism one is accountable for his own actions. If there is a recently baptized member in the class, have her relate very briefly her change of attitude after baptism. CONSIDER THE JUSTICE Since baptism is an ordinance of salvation essential to man's exaltation; since no accountable individual can enter the celestial kingdom without benefit of baptism; and since baptism is an ordinance to be performed upon earth, the justice of divine law requires that provision be made for all those who have died without having an opportunity, to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ and by authority of the Holy Priesthood. Vicarious baptism for the dead is that provision. It is an important evidence that the Lord's house is a house of order and that divine justice operates in both the kingdom of heaven and in the kingdom of earth. FOR HOME DOING Implement the class discussion by checking through the commitments involved in the covenant of baptism. Check on your own performance to see if they are a directing force in your life. If there are children in the home, help them to see that baptism involves individual responsibility. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS In presenting this lesson emphasize in the discussion how these ordinances directly affect each sister's life and, in turn, the lives of those who live with her. (See Lesson Helps.) ONLY ONE SONG Alda L. Brown For this brief moment He was her Child... Newborn and soft and warm Against 'her breast. Outside the world could wait To claim this infant King.... But for this brief time He was Mary's Child! Let the star falter in the sky! Let the Wise Men pause in their journey! Let the heavenly angels hush their singing, "All Hail, the newborn King!" For in Mary's heart There was only one song. A silent lullaby That only mothers sing.... 950 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 5 — Diligence Ennobles Work "All things are won by diligence."' Menander (Textbook: ''Out of the Best Books" Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: In her own diligence a woman can help others appreciate The selections in this month's lesson do not attempt to glamorize work, for no superficial makeup hides honest perspiration very long. What the stories, essays, and letters in this section do hope to accomplish is to present a fresh examination of a necessity that has been taken for granted so long that it usually excites little thought. Work, in some form, is part of our lives from their very beginning. In infancy, the simplest physical coordination must be worked at. As we grow, mental and spiritual development requires constant effort. At some point in our lives, many of us work for money. If no life is free from work, why are some forms of toil so much less pleasant than others? One theme that is shared by the diverse accounts in this section, is that our attitudes toward work are crucial. "THE REVOLT OF MOTHER" In this story by Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, Sarah Penn's revolt is less an assertion of indithe virtues which ennoble work. Viduality than it is a plea for fairness, yet her success does not come from insisting on her rights. It comes from serving so unselfishly and consistently that even Adoniram's work-hardened exterior is broken through. Sarah's arguments fall on ears which have little disposition to hear, but her actions present an unanswerable case. She doesn't threaten to stop making the pies her husband loves to eat between meals. And even his shock at finding his family moved into the new barn, is quickly tempered by the fine meal he is promptly served in it. Adoniram may be a bit dazed by all that has happened, but the author has us note that he "ate well." Both the strengths and weaknesses of work as habit can be seen in this story. Hard, habitual work can be a great source of solace in time of distress. After pleading with her husband unsuccessfully for the house he had promised her, and which he can now well afford to build, she cries only briefly. Soon Sarah is at 95] DECEMBER 1966 work, planning and piecing the shirts she is making for him. Yet it is quite possible that her work goes virtually unappreciated because it seems more a reflex action than a conscious effort. It takes the shock of an abrupt change in their generally uneventful lives for the Penns to see one another freshly. Adoniram suddenly realizes how much Sarah has wanted a new house, and Sarah comes to know how much her taciturn husband really cares for her. Class Discussion In the light of Sarah Penn's situation, how might she have avoided being taken for granted? What are the strengths and weaknesses of habitual diligence? Does this story give you fresh insight into your own life situation? "ECONOMY" This essay by Henry David Thoreau warns us about work that loses its significance because it fails to provide for growth. Thoreau insists on aspiration as a part of diligence. We must see to it that our work—whatever its nature—is uplifting. It isn't what one does so much as unthinking acceptance of one's supposed lot that degrades men. The challenge that Thoreau's words present to women everywhere is the opportunity to make daily tasks significant as_ well as routinely necessary. Are the daughters who grow up in your homes going to be "resigned" to housework? Remember Thoreau's insistence that "resignation is confirmed desperation.' Are the sons, whose prime example is their mother, going to think that motherhood is synonymous with drudgery? If doing dishes is only 952 preparation for another meal, the cycle of our lives can indeed become a vicious one. But if doing dishes can be seen in terms of establishing patterns of order and cleanliness, if routine tasks can be viewed as essential discipline for more creative effort, the diligence of a wife and mother can set a tone toward work that will bless the lives of all who know her. Class Discussion: Why do you think Thoreau feels so strongly about "resignation"? Can any type of work be made more significant? Discuss Thoreau's famous line "As if you could kill time without injuring eternity.' How does this harmonize with Latter-day Saint belief? LABOR Thomas Carlyle's identification of work with religion in the essay, which is printed in our text, from his book Past and Present, should be particularly appealing to members of the Church. His insistence that "Labor, wide as the Earth, has its summit in Heaven" attempts to ennoble work by showing its divine attributes. In stating that "Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness,' we must not infer that having an occupation which one enjoys is enough. In the lines which follow this assertion Carlyle lets us see how wide-ranging his concept of work is. For to do our very best in any positive endeavor is to align us with "all nobleness." There is also a sobering reminder of the necessity of proving our beliefs by acting upon them: "Doubt, of whatever kind, can be ended by action alone." Carlyle's special message to women might well be that all order is the result of work. Yet order is not to be achieved merely for its own sake. Such order can become so mechanical that it keeps us from seeing that all earthly order is a reflection of heavenly order. If we can inspire those for whom we are responsible—including ourselves—with a proper attitude toward work, our diligence will be just one more expression of our religious faith. Class Discussion In your own experience, what task has let you see the religious nature. Of work best? "THE APARTMENT HOUSE" The Apartment House Severe against the pleasant arc of sky The great stone box is cruelly displayed. The street becomes more dreary from its shade, And vagrant breezes touch its walls and die. Here sullen convicts in their chains might lie, Or slaves toil dumbly at some dreary trade. How worse than folly is their labour made Who cleft the rocks that this might rise on high. Yet, as I look, I see a woman's face Gleam from a window far above the street. This is a house of homes, a sacred place, By human passion made divinely sweet. How all the building thrills with sudden grace Beneath the magic of Love's golden feet! —Joyce Kilmer (1886-1918) (From Trees and Other Poems, Copyright 1914 by George H. Doran Company, published by Doubleday and Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission. ) LESSON DEPARTMENT Class Discussion In the opening lines to '""The Apartment House," Joyce Kilmer presents a harsh picture of modern city living, but he implies that any dwelling can become a "sacred place" if it is infused with loving service. How much is such service dependent upon wife and mother? Can members of a family be truly served if they do not serve in return? "THE WOMAN" In "The Woman" by Zona Gale, we see the result of doing one's "utmost" to be happy by making others feel our confidence and support. No work is more creative than that which inspires growth in others. Again and again, Bellard tries to become what he thinks his wife expects of him, and in such constant effort he can't help but develop. Class Discussion We may be so struck by Lucile in "The Woman" that we fail to appreciate what the husband becomes. What does Lucile see in Bellard that makes her effort worthwhile? "LETTERS FROM ABIGAIL TO JOHN ADAMS" In these letters we meet a woman who combines many of the qualities of diligence which other authors have stressed. She has Sarah Penn's consistency, Thoreau's sensitivity to what is significant, and Carlyle's religious orientation. Only one woman in American history has been both a wife and a mother of a President. That woman was Abigail Smith Adams (1744-1818). If there is something of accident in such a distinction, the more one reads of Abigail Adams' life the less one is prompted to credit happenstance. Especially in the letters 953 DECEMBER 1966 which she wrote to her husband do we see a woman tirelessly working to become the kind of wife an emerging statesman needs, and the mother of a son who will be prepared for great things. Space will permit the printing of only one letter. Others may be read in the text. The time was preliminary to the American Revolutionary War. Braintree, 19 August, 1774. The great distance between us makes the time appear very long to me. It seems already a month since you left me. The great anxiety I feel for my country, for you, and for our family renders the day tedious and the night unpleasant. The rocks and quicksands appear upon every side. What course you can or will take is all wrapped up in the bosom of futurity. Uncertainty and expectation leave the mind great scope. Did ever any kingdom or state regain its liberty, when once it was invaded, without bloodshed? I cannot think of it without horror. Yet we are told that all the misfortunes of Sparta were occasioned by their too great solicitude for present tranquility, and, from an excessive love of peace, they neglected the means of making it sure and lasting. They ought to have reflected, says Polybius, that, 'as there is nothing more desirable or advantageous than peace, when founded in justice and honor, so there is nothing more shameful, and at the same time more pernicious, when attained by bad measures and purchased at the price of liberty." I have received a most. Charming letter from our friend Mrs. Warren. She desires me to tell you that her best wishes attend you through your journey, both as a friend and a patriot—hopes you will have no uncommon difficulties to surmount, or hostile movements to impede _ you, but, if the Locrians should interrupt you, she hopes that you will beware, that no future annals may say you chose an ambitious Philip for your leader, who subverted the noble order of the American Amphictyons, and 954 built up a monarchy on the ruins of the happy institution. I have taken a very great fondness for reading Rollin's Ancient History since you left me. I am determined to go through it, if possible, in these my days of solitude. I find great pleasure and entertainment from it, and I have persuaded Johnny to read me a page or two every day, and hope he will, from his desire to oblige me, entertain a fondness for it. We have had a charming rain, which lasted twelve hours and has greatly revived the dying fruits of the earth. I want much to hear from you. I long impatiently to have you upon the stage of action. The first of September, or the month of September, perhaps, may be of as much importance to Great Britain as the Ides of March were to Caesar. I wish you every public as well as_ private blessing, and that wisdom which is profitable both for instruction and edification, to conduct you in this difficult day. The little flock remember papa, and kindly wish to see him; so does your most affectionate Abigail Adams. Although she was denied a formal education because of delicate health, young Abigail read widely in the libraries of her father and grandfather. Too often, such informal reading results in vague awareness but not precise understanding. One need only note the allusions in her letter of August 19, 1774, to realize how completely the young Mrs. Adams has been assimilating her reading. What is more impressive is her determination to keep reading the kind of material which will enlarge her horizons. Most impressive of all is the approach she is using to get her young son to develop a liking for demanding study. With an inspiring mother like Abigail, it is not too surprising that young John Quincy Adams was able to accompany the American Min- ister to Russia as private secretary at the age of fourteen! Not only does Abigail Adams pursue her education diligently; she is equally determined to take as active a part as possible in the stirring events of her time. Despite the anxiety she feels for her husband's safety and the cares of running the family farm, she is eager "to receive and entertain, in the best manner I am capable, the gentlemen who have so generously proffered their service in our army." As battles actually approach her home, she does not flinch at the discomforts of siege nor the terrors of family illness. She can still quote spritely lines from Poor Richard's Almanac and conclude that "if we can obtain the Divine aid by our own virtue, fortitude, and perseverance, we may be sure of relief.'"" When two members of her immediate family die within weeks of one another she is brokenhearted, but not broken in spirit. Long weeks without a husband intensify her LESSON DEPARTMENT loneliness but increase her appreciation of the blessings she still enjoys. Her faith in God never wavers. For Abigail Adams work was never partial. Her diligence combined mental resources, physical effort, and religious sanction. In the wholeness of her life there were support and direction for her immediate relatives and inspiration for those who continue to feel her dynamic, tender strength in the family letters which now belong to the world. Class Discussion In the light of her letters, what qualities in Abigail Adams do you think her children would remember longest? If self-discipline is evident in almost every letter, what evidence do we have that this state had to be achieved and constantly worked at? Note to Class Leaders Class leaders should not try to use all of the literary selections discussed in this lesson but should choose the one or more best suited for the members of the class. (SoD PART OF THE SEQUENCE Bertha A. Kleinman The lights of the past are shifting, the beacon fires A Y have gone out, The theories of old are drifting, rudderless, fogged in doubt. The facts of yesterday's proving are quandaries tomorrow must solve, The stars that were fixed stars are moving, the glories of heaven evolve. And |! Who am part of the sequence must grow into chaster design, Perfecting and pledging allegiance to blend with the pattern divine. 955 Christmas Gifts Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the "ike th 7h Passover and a valuable addition Li I Mhisck te to any home library. $2.00 $1, Fthens Prastannt History of Relief Society bs Reta oi. 144 pages, illustrated (see page 957 in this issue). $4.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons For Relief Society Women Everywhere @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, ~ INinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Off the press January 16, 1967. Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 957 REMEMBERING FAITH Enola Chamberlin | remember seeing faith In my mother's eyes As, following my father's dreams, She looked at alien skies. | remember seeing faith In smiles with which she met The hardships of a dusty road, The children's tired fret. | remember seeing faith In her busy hands, As she set dear plants to grow In strange and unknown lands. | remember hearing faith, No matter drought or blight, in her voice when she knelt down To say her prayers at night. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, 'Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 8 enl.20 Zone 5 a Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 27 HAWAIIAN TOURS December 21 Ask about our Mexican Tour Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 958 Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR. NAME MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL ——————— LATE BORN ROSE PARADE TOUR Lael W. Hill Via San Francisco To Abraham, Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 Isaac; to Zacharias, John— =~ each having many years before he held a son; strange are the answers ROSE PARADE TOUR given some to know f ' after long desiring Via San Diego and the dream let go. Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 (Young men, bold men, easy in your minds, can you equal this joy a later father finds?) —After unbelieving, the blessed promise done:: James Tr avel Tours to Abraham, 460 7th Avenue Ilsaac— to Zacharias, Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 John. Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 959 107 100 ° 7 96 95 960 Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson. Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Hannah Axelina Johnson Nyquist Weiser, Idaho Mrs. Mary Evans Newman Tooele, Utah Mrs. Louis Rappleye Hunter Nelson. Orem, Utah Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Hancy Broadbent Ogden, Utah Mrs. Katie Holliday Cragun Portland, Oregon Mrs. Lily Munk Livingston Manti, Utah Mrs. Hannah Christine Nelson Osborne Ashton, Idaho Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Wilson Haynie Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lavinia Mae Winter Woods Fullerton, California Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Crum Carnes Safford, Arizona Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho 92 Dirthdy Congratulations Mrs. Maria Parkinson Darley Red Bluff, California Mrs. Armitta Peterson Clark Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ninadell Klepper Shelby, Montana _ Mrs. Emily Ritchie Po "es Roy, Utah ~*~ Mrs. Susan Parker Beus Hooper, Utah eae Miss Clay Allred Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Betsy Harding — Christensen Harris r Orem, Utah Mrs. Anne Marie Andersen J et Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Riedel Wagr Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lillian Yates Evans Plymouth, California Mrs. Mae Peterson Brown Safford, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Pearcey Gladwell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Elizabeth Sims Tucker Pasadena, California Mrs. Martha Cornelia Payne Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Susan Hayes Gilmore Ogden, Utah Miss Mary Frances Duncan West Covina, California Mrs. May Hulse Monson Millville, Utah Mrs. Ellice Madsen Moffitt Manti, Utah i | Books are a long-remembered gift —_{ give a hook from Deseret Book this Christmas WHY THE RELIGIOUS LIFE by Mark E. Petersen $3.95 Elder Petersen gives us a vivid explanation of exactly why the "religious" life is so desirable why it leads to true happiness here and exaltation in the hereafter. Testifying that man's destiny is to become like God, he counsels us that obedience to gospel principles and activity in the Church are the first necessary steps. TEACH ME by Dorthea C. Murdock $3.50 Created originally to meet the need for nursery activity during Relief Society, this fine book will find a wider use in the home and by all teachers of the very young. TEACH ME is full of delightful things for little folks stories, make-it projects, fingerplays, games, etc. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 2 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 An essential aid for Relief Society cultural refinement lessons. Exciting and pertinent extracts from the best literature in the English language. Use for Relief Society, or for sheer personal reading pleasure. Ample quantities of this book are now available. Order this L. D. S. Best seller now! Toy Mail soon for Christmas delivery. = OSS = 2 SSS = —— | Order from: Deseret 0 Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake COMPANY City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92669 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Send me 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA A Cj WHY THE RELIGIOUS LIFE [} TEACH ME {_] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 2 Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 312% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. RS. Dec. 66 OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Have an old-time Send for Cynthia Scott free folder, "World of Holiday Sugar Fun." Tells how you can easily make these unusual holiday decorations and g* many others. Funfor % C the whole family! Q (* Home economist ford Uand I Sugar) CSO PaRAIN | Our way J of wishing you a very =\\ Merry Christmas: Jee mene seswawwew senna esses ses eee eeesses ek U and I Sugar Company P. O. Box 2010 Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Please send me Cynthia Scott's folder, "World of Holiday Sugar Fun."