Dorothy J. Roberts: As winds of spring walk over the hill again - —— ' Bringing "a. Strange, snew summer, a ~ ~ f whom your tongue had taught eo. | " 'With iridescent syllables," C. _~- Must dearn and "Unlearn, \4 ~ <2" All things*dimmed and shucked.' + r And winnowed of your 'word—=, a. Of trees unleaved and tumbled; cloud,.- - And rain's pale ri of cNsiowec in every pool; ' - Of places unadorne. *. Vacuum sand, vacant * of your wart ~~ "AM wakoted wonder of the waterfall: " 'Sealed and Silent, ~~. Throat of thrush without the bright ' Cadenza of. Reply; dsmust speak in honest tones, Not' murmured in the starry meadows of the night, Not maiden-shy, but unabashed ' * Im Summer and the light. R Though "torn to cling around the margin of your name, The shimmering substance of a phrase recalled, The continent your faith had formed for me, Without*your. Eyes, to see, your tone, to guide; 1_mitist wale where words abide, not yours, "And Y into the rustle of new fields Wa dwith unfamiliar furrows of response. Upil Of your power,.| must stand Until the Breen grows high around me, pt ~ ol Tasseled: 'withe the henwest of. Reply, a And glean, " * = — % When the bending heatisTM are swollen, ° Y _With the ripened kernel of new sound, i. * As Ruth, the alien summer from the ground. 7 ' ' >. *) Nee get Cover: Mountain Scene in Argentina.. A Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild bi s Lithographed in Full. Color by Deseret News Press "C: ap Frontispiece: —jCovered Bridge and Tree-Lined Brook ' wi o Photograph by Harold M. Lambert f. — Art" Layout: Dick Scopes ' peace Mary Scopes ad. 'i. Aes }. >. '; _ ee oe: ~~ " '. 4 QO | want to express my appreciation for the spiritual uplift that | receive from The Relief Society Magazine. | teach home economics and use the ideas for projects and crafts in my classes. We are still permitted to have devotions in our school. | always use the visiting teacher message when it is my turn to present devotion to the student body. There are always compliments on our devotion, and | tell the students and faculty ''That was Mormon devotions" taken from The Relief Society Magazine. | am the only member of the faculty, and the only member of my family who has joined the Church. Julia R. Clark Tracy City, Tennessee We sisters of the Chandler Spanish Branch want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the privilege of having The Relief Society Magazine translated into the Spanish language. We feel it is another great milestone for the Spanish-speaking people. Mrs. Marva B. Tarwater President, Spanish Branch Chandler, Arizona The first prize-winning story 'For Barbara, With Love"' (by Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, January 1966) was very good. | think | have never read a story on conversion that was handled so tactfully—for, of course, the conversion was the theme of the story. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah | want you to know how much | enjoyed the beautiful frontispiece poem of the May issue ''Place of Prayer,'' by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is so inspirational, and being accompanied by those lovely photographs makes the poem all the more effective. Mrs. Peter Hansen Tempe, Arizona 562 hom Near aul Str On page 363 of the lovely May is appears a very choice article "A Pod Full of Peas,'"' by Helen Hinckley Jones. Helen and | were in school togett at Weber High in Ogden, Utah. Tt inspirational and interesting artic which appear in every issue of Magazine make it a ''must" in ou home. Dr. Russell B. F Provo, Ut | would like to state that the st "To Barbara, With Love'' (First Story, January 1966) is one of most wonderful stories | have read. Sister Vesterfelt has done a derful work in composing that sto was telling one of the young missic aries about it, and he borrowed copy to read. The Relief Society azine is one of the very best inv ments | ever made. Mrs. Alverna Manning Al West Panama City Beach, Flo | very much enjoyed reading the sto "That Certain Sparkle' (April 1966) by Frances Carter Yost who is my cousin. My daughter is fast becomi acquainted with the stories and recip in the Magazine. | feel that the tents of the Magazine can fill a gre need in her life, as well as in t lives of other young people who will be the homemakers of tomorrow. Beverly H. Isr Salt Lake Citv. U | must write and tell you the enjoy | have received from the story " for the Wise'' (serial by Margery $ Stewart). Something from_ reality feel! Please, we must have more stc of this type by this author. Fay S. Pe Blackfoot, | the Relief Society weczzine 

Volume 53 Number 8 August 1966 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 How to Preserve Freedom Bruce R. McConkie 569 Are We Seekers? Helen Hinckley Jones 583 Summer Morning on the Temple Grounds Olive D. Twiddy 584 Songs for Relief Society Singing Mothers Choruses F'lorence J. Madsen Fiction 570 Run Away Home Jody Shields 576 With These Hands Veronica Blagrove 586 A Place to Retire Frances Carter Yost 604 'Tell Me of Love—Chapter 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 562 From Near and Far 579 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 580 Editorial: ""Behold, There Are Many Called, But Few Are Chosen" Louise W. Madsen 582 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 610 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Serving Apple Dumpling—Favorite Dessert, Asel B. Brodt, 592; Recipes From New Zealand, Ngaio A. Hughes, 594; "Quickie" Recipes and Cooking Hints, Bernice Broderick, 596; Gay Luncheon Cloths, Shirley Thulin, 598; Oh, What a Beautiful Day, Amy G. Bond, 601; Marjorie B. Silver—Maker of Fruit Cakes, 602; Surface Cleaning, Dorothy C. Little, 603. Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living—Pre-Earth Life Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message—"Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted. " Alice Colton Smith 625 Homemaking—Extending Homey Hospitality Hazel S. Cannon 627 Social Relations—The Sensitive Line Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement—Refinement Creates Beauty Bruce B. Clark Poetry 561 Alien Summer Dorothy J. Roberts Summer Song, Zara Sabin, 567; Brief Tenure, Alice Morrey Bailey, 568; Requiem, Vera R. Holden, 575; For Those Who See, Rose Thomas Graham, 575; Her Hands, May Swenson, 578; Back to the House, Christie Lund Coles, 582; Here With a Tiny Daughter, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 590; Sparks of Creativity, Pearle M. Olsen, 591; August, Alda L. Brown, 593; Cliffs of Tumurru, Elizabeth M. Lauritzen, 609; Bee Myrtle, Ethel Jacobson, 623; At Conference, Sarah Heron, 638. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in secti6n 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

How to Preserve Freedom Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of The First Council of Seventy @ "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?" So spake Paul to the centurion as the soldiers bound the apostle with thongs and prepared him for the persecutor's lash. Then said the centurion to the chief captain, "Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman." "Art thou a Roman?" the chief captain asked Paul. "Yea,'"' said the apostle. "With a great sum obtained I this freedom," said the chief captain. But Paul said, "I was free born" (Acts 22:25-28). Free born! Born to freedom! Born to be free! Paul, a Roman— born heir to the freedom of Roman citizenship, claiming his rights and privileges under the law! The chief captain—envious that he had not always been so blessed, yet rejoicing that he was an adopted citizen of the empire, entitled also to enjoy the protection of its laws and the freedom of its established way of life! How like this illustration is the case with the citizens of God's earthly kingdom—some born in the Church, and others adopted through the cleansing waters of baptism, but all inheritors of a freedom, a liberty found nowhere else on earth. God deals in freedom; his gospel is the law of liberty; and it is through the free use of his divinely bestowed gift 564 of agency that his saints inherit the blessings of his kingdom. In the pre-mortal life all of the spirit children of God were endowed with agency—the freedom of choice, the liberty which, if used wisely, would enable them to progress and become like their Father. When the Father presented his plan of salvation to his spirit children, he asked, in effect: ""Whom shall I send to be my Son, through whose ministry and infinite atonement the terms and. Conditions of the plan of salvation shall be put in force?" There were two _ volunteers. Jesus, the Firstborn, stepped forward and in thought content said: "Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy Son; I will accept thy plan of agency; and Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." But Lucifer, a son of the morning, "sought to destroy the agency of man," by proposing: 'Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that not one soul shall be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor." Thereupon the Lord said, "I will send the first''; Lucifer rebelled; ''there was war in heaven"; and those spirits who feared the testings and trials of an agency-centered mortal probation were cast out of heaven. And here on earth they continue the war that began in heaven, the HOW TO PRESERVE FREEDOM liberty 20 advancement, proone thing to expound on the general subject of freedom, and show how for all es freedom is the man his gospel. Definition and in its nature, is "the perfec law.95). Those who receive |, tem which, 1 P c "J will walk a, " (Psalm Rather Ss inherent 10) c es. Because spiritual. In fact, when jn terms of freedom, they norion to If there were no e mally ium their attenti political and governmental fields, 1 overlooking the reugh | habitants thereof y 565 AUGUST 1966 including members of the Church, to know what trumpet to heed. In the very nature of things, most members of the Church desire to pursue that course which will preserve their freedom and enable them to worship God in such a way as to work out their salvation. But the question is one of how to go about it, what course to pursue, what group to support, what leaders to follow. How are we to apply the principles of freedom, not only in the strictly religious field, but in civic and governmental concerns? Difficult as the problem may seem on the surface, perhaps the real answer is found in a simple recurrence to fundamental principles. Perhaps the problem is not one of determining what political cause to espouse, but of expending our strength and influence in furthering those gospel principles out of which freedom and liberty grow. Asked how he governed so great and diverse a people as the Latter-day Saints, Joseph Smith replied that he taught them correct principles and they governed themselves. Nothing guides men as well as a knowledge of true principles. Speaking in the April 1966, General Conference of the Church, Elder Harold B. Lee counseled Church officers and members to devote their strength and talents to sustaining the gospel cause as a means of preserving freedom. We should all learn that the fundamentals of gospel teachings are the Lord's weapon against evil and sins of all kinds whether they be _ political dangers, immorality, or threatened family disaster, or any other sinister affliction among us. 566 Then Elder Lee quoted these words from President David O. McKay, words which President McKay uttered in the 1962 October General Conference: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and the necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Only thus will mankind find peace and happiness (Church News, April 16, 1966). In other words, there is nothing a member of the Church can do to preserve and strengthen the cause of freedom which will compare in importance with strengthening and preserving the gospel cause. The gospel brings freedom; it begets liberty in the hearts and lives of its adherents; and only when all men are converted to and live in harmony with gospel principles will perfect liberty prevail among all peoples. Others may render their best services in less important fields, but where members of the Church are concerned, the cause of freedom is the cause of the gospel, and the spread of the gospel will bring to pass the triumph of liberty. Those who believe and obey the gospel teachings are freed from the bondage of sin. Jesus said, "Tf ye continue in my word," that is, if you keep the faith after re- ~ ceiving it, "then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free."" Why? Because, he said, "Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin'"' (John 8: 31-34). Our concern, thus, should be less on political principles and more on personal righteousness, less on strengthening this or that group, which from our finite viewpoint is one that furthers freedom, and more on _ sustaining those higher spiritual principles which God has said must be accepted if liberty is to live. This does not mean we have no civic responsibilities or that we leave the solution of governmental problems to others. What is involved is a matter of emphasis and perspective, a matter of putting first in one's life the things of God's kingdom, and of letting strictly political considerations step down to a secondary station. God's promise, made of old, was to "set up a free people by the power of the Father," on the American continent. (3 Nephi 21:4.) This he did by establishing the Constitution, "by the hands of wise men," who were "raised up unto this very purpose." This was done, he said, "That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment" (D&C 101: 77-80). Those freedoms which are guaranteed by the United States Constitution are in fact the inalienable rights of "all mankind," SUMMER SONG Zara Sabin HOW TO PRESERVE FREEDOM the Lord says, not just of people who live in America. Accordingly, the Lord expects his saints everywhere, in all nations, to use their influence for good in selecting wise and honest men to serve in all governmental capacities. (D&C 98:4-10). But neither the American nor any other governmental system is perfect. All present systems of government will be replaced during the millennium. The Lord has promised to make 'a full end of all nations" (D&C 87:6), and that men "shall have no laws but my laws when I come...." (D&C 38:22). In conclusion, then, though the saints are expected to let their power and influence be felt for good in all governmental fields, thereby aiding the cause of freedom from a civic standpoint, by far their greatest commission and obligation lies in the spiritual realm. For, in the final analysis, the way to preserve freedom is to preach the gospel, to persuade men to live by gospel standards, for such are the standards of freedom and liberty. Only when the day comes that all men are free born, through the gospel, in the full spiritual sense, will all be free. We can preserve and sustain the cause of freedom by spreading the gospel and making it a living thing in the lives of men. Hear them, the gentle wind-fingers, Caressing the treetops, singing to the night. Even the nightingale, poised high for his trilling, Pauses to listen, his lullaby silenced, And the cicala, hidden in grasses, Tones his shrill cadence until it has ended— The soft summer song in the treetops. 567 Seene in Kamas Valley, Utah BRIEF TENURE Alice Morrey Bailey Outward, banished in rebuke, they went From that lush fruit, that beauty, that lost place, Fleeing wrath, the flaming sword, but bent Against the cold and dreary world's dark face. And each remembering generation seeks Utopia, paradise, but serpentiess, From tropic islands to the timbered peaks Throughout the length and breadth of wilderness. And some have held brief tenure on the soil, Found beauty in a cloud, a river's bend, Reclaimed a garden spot—with trust and toil, Gained weary peace beyond the stern day's end, With fragile fence against the wild, a plough To plant the earth, to fend the weed, Brought forth their daily bread by sweat of brow— Created Eden from an apple seed. - —_ so @ 'if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things.'' With these words the Prophet Joseph ended the Articles of Faith. He envisioned our gospel as not being confined within a limited creed, but as embracing everything of value. He envisioned the saints as ''seekers'' who would obey the admonition to read the best books and to study languages and sciences and all other branches of knowledge. Are we ''seekers''? The Church has sought after the virtuous, lovely, and praiseworthy. Our choirs sing superbly the world's best music; our youth program introduces our young people to all branches of culture; our educational system offers opportunity for everyone to seek knowledge; our Relief Society program offers courses comparable, in a limited way, to college instruction. But what about us individual members? When did you last visit a museum of natural history, an art gallery, a planetarium, a botanical garden, a zoo, even a library? When did you last take your child to one of these places? When did you hear a concert, see a play, listen to a lecture? When did you complete one of the adult education courses that are available in most every area? When did you last read, and share with someone else, a good book? We aren't too busy to be ''seekers.'' The Prophet Joseph wasn't too busy to organize a school for adult men with professors from nearby Hyrum College. He wasn't too busy, with all of his responsibilities, to be the most apt student in the school. Notice that, busy as he was, he didn't put this seeking sometime in the future. He didn't write ''We shall seek after these things''; he used the present tense, we seek. We aren't too busy to be seekers after the virtuous, lovely, and praiseworthy things. We just think we are. 569 I don't remember now what caused the hurt feelings. It was the summer before I started school and I had just turned six. The day was gloomy and rain dropped steadily from low-hanging, black clouds. Perhaps the dreariness of the weather was partly responsible. (Rainy days are rough when you have to stay indoors and there are five children between the ages of twelve and six.) What I do remember is that I was absolutely certain that no one loved me and that no one wanted me anymore. So I put on my coat and stormed out of the house into the rain. I walked along the side of the house, vowing in my heart that I would never set foot inside the door again. (Well, maybe. Long years from now I would return, a beautiful, rich princess. Like Joseph in the Bible story, I 570 Run Away Home Jody Shields would forgive everyone for driving me out into the rain so long ago.) I opened the gate that separated the yard from the pasture. This was hard for me to do because of my limited size and strength. While I was working on the gate, I heard Mother shout at me from the back door. She had interrupted her housework long enough to follow me. "If you stay out in that rain until you catch a cold, I'll punish you." But I was running away for good. She didn't need to worry if I caught cold or anything. In fact, she needn't worry about me ever again. I walked on through the pasture, past the granary, and across the canal bridge. The path was well worn as we made at least four trips daily going to and from the barn for milking. The gate to the barnyard was something I had not yet been able to master, so I climbed the rail fence and crossed the stackyard. When I reached the barn, I paused and leaned against its rough, gray siding. I stood there, well out of sight of the house, should anyone be searching for me through a window, and contemplated my future. It was obvious that I had to have some place to go—and soon. My hair was already beginning to hang in wet strands against my cheeks, and I could feel rain dripping from the ends. First thing, I must have shelter. I considered the barn, then rejected it and the granary and the calf pens, too, because they were all too close to the house. Then I remembered the little house my sister and I had built between the hills at the far side of the farm. We five children had _ been herding the cows on the hills and had decided we needed something to shade us from the hot sun. The boys built a lean-to with poles which they lashed together with rope and fence wire. They covered it with leaf-filled branches and wove them in and out to make a dense canopy of shade. We little girls had thought it was beautiful, but, with the natural contrariness of young manhood, they refused to let us inside. In fact, they sent us off to turn the cows while they basked in the shade, talking and whittling with their pocket knives. We grumbled briefly, then Marcia said, "Let's make our own house and leave them to herd the cows." RUN AWAY HOME "Where would we find any poles, or rope, or wire?" I wanted to know. "Over there," she said, pointing to a row of trees growing along the fence that separated our farm from the _ neighbors. "We should be able to find everything we need," she stated confidently. We turned the cows and trudged back to the _ lean-to. "Since you won't let us have any shade," Marcia told the boys, "'we're going to do something about it." Then we circled the hills so the boys would really think we had gone and wouldn't come and make us turn the cows anymore. Tue hollow she had _ pointed out was almost choked with weeds and dead branches that scratched our bare legs as we searched along the tree line. We found no poles, but we did find a limb that had broken from one of the trees. It had caught in the forks several feet above the ground. The branches of the limb spread out across the ground, their leaves still green and fresh. "We'll use this," Marcia announced. We parted the branches closest to the trunk and looked around. It looked just fine to me. Of course we would need to break off some branches that hung down inside, but it was _ practically a ready-made house as it stood. We set to work and soon had cleared out the excess twigs. These we wove into the remaining branches, imitating as nearly as we could the way we had seen our brothers weave their roof. 571 AUGUST 1966 We had to gather a_ few branches from the other trees to finish it. That was hard work for 'two little girls without even a knife; but at last our shelter was finished. More, I think, as a result of exhaustion than from actually having assumed _ the status of lean-to. But, at least, it was shady, and it was ours. We spent the rest of the afternoon there, talking and dreaming about when we would be grown up, while magpies chattered and screeched above our heads. Thinking of the little house now, with the rain soaking through my old coat, I decided it would be just the place to go while I plotted my next move. I jumped down from the top rail and walked along the side of the pond. I passed the calf pens and tool sheds and walked across the end of the calf pasture to the first hill. This was the highest hill on a farm that was about all hills and hollows dotted with four ponds. There were a few acres of tillable land on the place. At the top of the hill, I paused and looked as far as I could see in every direction. I recalled a conversation Wayne had started last school year about a man named Columbus proving that the world was round. I had asked if he meant round like a pancake and he had said, ''No, round like a ball." Now, standing on this highest hill, with my world spread out before me, everything looked basically flat. There stood the mountains far away in the distant purple west, and behind me the Wasatch Range rose towering in the east. Nothing that I could 572 see indicated any sloping sides like a ball. It seemed to me those big old mountains would slide off if they were perched on the side of a ball, so I concluded as I walked down the other side of the hill that he must have been mixed up. He probably meant round like a pancake, after all. I would remember to ask my teacher about it when I went to school this fall. Then I realized that I probably wouldn't be able to go to school, having run away from home and all. That was what my mother would have called "Cutting off my nose to spite my face." I wasn't quite sure what she meant by that, but thinking of her made me almost feel sad that I had run away for good. "She'll probably miss me," I told myself. My coat caught on the barbs as I climbed through the fence to the hay field. I tore it loose and clapped my hand over my mouth as I thought of what Mom would say when she saw the holes that were made. I knew Father would punish 'me if I crossed through his lucerne this near to mowing time, so I skirted the hay field to reach the irrigation ditch that ran along the foot of the next hill. There I had to decide if I should try to jump the ditch or follow it to where a plank bridge crossed it. I was beginning to feel rather cold, so decided to jump. There was just a little water in the bottom, but it was a deep ditch and its sides were steep. I half slid, half fell into the water. = The water was cold and it soaked me through. I stood up carefully, half fearing that I had broken an arm or leg, or something. I climbed up the bank, slipping once or twice in the soft mud. Just over the hill and across the hollow and I would be "home." Thinking of the cozy, green-thatched little house revived my spirits and I trudged on up the hill. From the top I could see the hollow and the trees, and I tried to pick out the one where my run-away home nestled at the bottom of its trunk. Being this near, I began to think about other things which I would need. My wet clothes were growing increasingly uncomfortable, and I began to realize I would need more to wear than what I had on. I planned to wait until dark. After everyone had gone to sleep I would sneak back to the house and get the rest of my clothes. I might even get a box to keep them in. And food. I would have to have food. I wouldn't take much, though. I knew we weren't very rich and Mom couldn't spare much food to feed a little runaway child. Just some crackers and a jar of jelly, I decided, as I reached the weed-filled hollow. I was tired and my legs were beginning to ache with the cold. I began to chant, "Not much farther... We're almost there.. - Not much farther... We're almost there," as mother often had us do, when we got tired walking to Sunday School. I reached the broken branch lean-to and found, to my dismay, that the leaves were withered RUN AWAY HOME and dead. Most of the branches had sagged or caved to the ground. Inside was a rubble of dead leaves and twigs. I set right to work, clearing out the inside and removing all the dead and wilted branches and leaves. Then I began to tear new branches from other trees to mend the roof. It was harder working by myself and not nearly as much fun. I began to wish I had asked Marcia to run away with me. It wouldn't be nearly as lonesome out here if she were along.. Bi stay > 7 (— 2 CA " I was tired and cold, and my arms and legs were aching so I sat down inside my hut to rest. It was then I began to think of some of the things I hadn't considered before. Like the coyotes we heard howling on the hills after dark, and the dog packs daddy and the boys talked about that roamed the fields at night. "In a pack like that," daddy had once said, "those dogs will do almost anything." I shivered, wondering if they would eat little hermit girls. I remembered the mosquitoes. We had slept out in the back yard one night when it was too hot inside and had about been eaten up with bites. Daddy said they breed in the ponds and there was a pond right over the hill. Wayne had said one night when he was camping with the scouts, he woke up and heard two of them talking. One said, 'Shall 573 AUGUST 1966 we eat him here or take him home with us?" and the other had replied, "'Let's eat him here. If we take him home, the big ones will take him away from us." We had all laughed, knowing it was a joke, but somehow, thinking about it now, it didn't seem funny. Before I quite realized what I was doing, and without actually deciding to do it, I found myself returning along the trail I had taken earlier. Only this time I went across the planks instead of through the ditch; and I went through the hay field instead of around it; and I crawled under the barbed wire fence instead of through it. I ran across the calf pasture to the barnyard. There, in the shelter of the tool shed, was my brother Fred, waiting for me. "Where have you been?" he asked. "Out walking," I answered, trying to sound casual, and not at all cold. "Oh, sure, well, Mom is mad at you." That scared me. I guessed maybe I had been right in the first place. She really didn't want me, after all.. I mean... If she was just mad and not at all worried. "Then I won't go in." I shrugged, trying not to show how I felt. "You want me to tell her that?" he asked, sounding as if he didn't care, either. "No!" I exclaimed "Just tell her you didn't even see me." He shrugged and started back to the house. I leaned against the wall of the shed and thought 574 about drowning myself in the pond or canal. Instead, I started to follow Fred. I stayed what I felt to be a safe distance behind. I didn't know if he would tell on me and yet in a way, I wished he would. If I could have thought of a way to go in and still save face, I would have followed him right into the house. But, I was stuck. I crawled into a sheltered place between the chicken coop and the granary to wait and think. It wasn't long before I heard the door slam, and around the corner of the house came mother. She was buttoning her coat as she walked and her head was bare. That was unusual, because Mom never went out into the rain without a scarf. My heart began to beat faster. I was afraid she was coming after me, but as she drew nearer, I could see the worry lines creasing her forehead. I started to call out to her, then some impulse stopped me. She walked right past me toward the barnyard. I crept along the side of the granary until I could see her again. I watched her walk along the canal bank outside the barnyard fence toward the tool shed. So, he did tell on me, I thought. But, then, instead of stopping by the calf pens or at the tool shed, she went on across the pasture. I watched her as she moved rapidly across the wet grass and up the sage-covered hill. I watched her until she was out of sight and then watched her in my mind as she climbed the barbed wire fence. I saw her as she skirted the hayfield, followed the ditch, crossed the plank bridge, climbed over the other hills. I could see her searching the hollows and around the reed-choked pond. In my mind, I could see her as she returned across the farm that wasn't much good for farming, but was a good place to rear children. When I did see her again, her head was bowed and her shoulders drooped tiredly. I wished and wished that I had called out and had taken a scolding or whatever she might have done to punish me. I thought of her hair getting wet and stringy and of her old coat, worn and threadbare, and RUN AWAY HOME not keeping out the cold. I knew, then, that no matter what else, I loved her. I wanted to be good to her and never to hurt her or cause her discomfort or worry again. Suddenly, I realized what I should have known all along what I should never have doubted. My mother loved me, too. I knew, also, that for the rest of my life, no matter if I couldn't always agree with what she said, or things she did, we would always have this love between us. I left my hiding place and walked slowly out to meet her. REQUIEM Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England Beyond my fence a line of poplars grew, Majestic, stately, reaching to the sky. Their beauty gave enhancement to the view, Invited notice; one could not pass by Without a thought for God who all trees made, To shelter man within their friendly shade. In summer suns they dreamed away the hours, Green sentinels, like soldiers in a row, As though they guarded all the garden flowers. | saw them planted, watched them thrive and grow, Aristocrats of every living tree, That's how the poplars always looked to me. A clumsy human, with ungentle hand, One autumn came before the leaves were brown; What motive | shall never understand, Had prompted him to cut the poplars down. | mourn their passing—miss their lofty grace, They gave so much, yet asked so little space. FOR THOSE WHO SEE Rose Thomas Graham | cannot scale the mountain tops, Nor touch a single star. My foot would falter in the climb, My hand not reach so far. But, oh! | have a grateful heart For these far-seeing eyes, That rocket to the highest peak, Encompass all the skies. 575 With These Hands Veronica Blagrove Headington, Oxford, England @ Sarah waved goodbye as the blue car slid silently away from the end of her driveway. She watched as Lucy swung the steering wheel dextrously to turn into the main road, and then walked through to the front door. They had spent the afternoon visiting three sisters who had recently moved into town. I'm so glad that we went to see them, she thought, they ll seemed genuinely pleased to meet us. As she let herself into the. House, all was strangely quiet, and she smiled as she remembered the children's exclamations of glee when they had heard that they were sleeping at Grandma Harris' house that night. Joe's mother had been adamant, '"You are going out to celebrate your 576 anniversary this year, and that is final! A present from Dad and me." Out to dinner! It was a long time since Sarah and Joe Harris had spent an evening out together. With three growing children to feed and clothe, Joe's salary just did not stretch to such luxuries. The clock in the hall made Sarah start slightly as it chimed four o'clock. Three hours and Joe would be home. They planned to leave at eight, and it might well be past midnight when they returned. I think I'll wear my blue dress. Joe likes that best of all. She smiled to herself again, then said aloud, ""Take hold of yourself, Sarah Harris, you're a grown woman with three children, and here you are behaving like a teenager!" She took oif her coat and seated herself at the table where she had left her sewing when Lucy had called to take her visiting teaching. I hope these gathers will lie flat around Cathy's waist, she thought. Her eyes softened as she thought of her chubby four-yearold whose wide-eyed innocence could melt anyone's heart when she said, "It did it by itself!" in response to. Inquiries regarding the breakage of a favorite dish or plate. Sarah's small fingers worked swiftly as she spread the fullness of the skirt evenly around the bodice, pinning, tacking, and finally, the whirr of the machine, and the seam was done. Guiding the material from beneath the foot with one hand, and reaching for her scissors with the other, her fingernail caught the edge of the table. Snap! Ruefully Sarah surveyed the damage —yes—another broken nail. Shall I ever have nails like Lucy's? She wondered. Her hands always look soft and white, and her nails are all the same length. I felt so ashamed of my hands when we visited those sisters today. And my fingers are so short, too! Lucy's long, slender fingers fascinated Sarah, and she remembered the effortless, graceful movement of her hands as she swung the car in and out of the heavy traffic as they had driven through town earlier that day. The clock brought Sarah back to the present as it chimed again. Five o'clock, and I haven't tidied the boys' room yet! Quickly she smoothed the rough edges of her broken nail, collected her sewing together, and packed it away in the box in the corner behind Great-grandpa's rocking chair. As she climbed the stairs, she squared her shoulders in preparation for the expected chaos of the twins' retreat. "Will they ever be WITH THESE HANDS tidy?" she mused, as she regained her balance after stepping on a model jeep. Bob's bed was littered with books, while Ben had some odd-shaped pieces of wood and an assortment of nails spread far and wide. "I wondered how he had managed to spend all of his birthday money so soon. I hope it turns out to be something I can recognize when I see the finished article!"' she said to herself. Sarah picked the nails up carefully, then stacked the pieces of wood neatly against the wall. The few odd toys from here and there were soon stowed away with the rest in the toy box, and all that remained were the books. Library books, coloring books, storybooks he had had for his recent birthday, and two school exercise books. These last two should not be here, thought Sarah. I'll take them downstairs. Her task completed, she went down to the living room. The young mother's fingers idly flicked over the pages of one book which supported on_ its cover, in bold boyish print, "Robert Harris, English Essay." One page fell open and the heading, "My Mother' caught her eye. She smiled as she read her description as "short, not too thin, with a jolly face." I sound like a peg doll, she 577 AUGUST 1966 thought, amused, but her eyes sobered as she read the next few lines. 'What I like best about my Mother are her hands. They are always busy cleaning, washing, cooking, and making new dresses for my sister because she grows so fast. When I was sick she sat by my bed at night and held my hand, and I felt much better. When we fall down, she bandages our knees and she does lots more things with her hands." Sarah's eyes were misty, she could read no more. Hadn't she read somewhere 'Out of the mouths of babes..."'? Bob was not quite eight. She bowed her head and said silently, "Dear Heavenly Father, I thank thee that I have the hands that my dear ones need. Please forgive me for being ungrateful." Drying her eyes on the corner of her apron, Sarah climbed the stairs to fetch her dress to press, and hummed softly a song she remembered from her own Primary days, "I have two little hands." Then her husband's photograph smiled at her from the bedside table, and she thought, maybe I won't tell Joe or anybody about reading Bob's book, I'll just try to do all I can with these hands. HER HANDS May Swenson The hands that set wisdom into books, Or capture beauty with a brush Are not so eloquent by far As a mother's fingers are. For it is wonderful to think Her hands must leave their work Of wash and cook and mend for ten, To get the ink and hunt the pen. The hands that still the babe to sleep, That knead the bread, that turn the seam, That rest at night upon the quilt The wedding ring agleam; The hands so veined and creased with toil, Now raised in joy, now clenched in fear, Now shadowing the eyes to pray— These hands took up the pen today And wrote ''Dear Daughter'' on a page. They made a masterpiece of love, More memorial, more supreme, Than any artist's dream. 578 Ramona W. Cannon Jacqueline du Pre, cellist with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Sir Malcolm Sargent, is considered a performer of ''artistic individuality, as well as technical virtuosity.'' She was introduced to Carnegie Hall (New York) audiences as cellist in the Elgar concerto. Hedy West, Cartersville, Georgia, is today acclaimed in both the United States and Europe as one of the finest singers of country music. She is particularly effective in her singing of the folk music of the Georgia hill country. Her great-grandmother was a collector of the old familiar songs of the South, and Hedy finds a deep meaning in her heritage. She plays the piano, flute, and banjo, and is a student of musical composition. Sally Katzen, twenty-three, is the first woman ever to be elected editor-inchief of the University of Michigan Law ~ Review, a scholarly journal frequently cited in litigants' briefs and court decisions, which ranks among the top such publications in the United States. In this position, Miss Katzen directs a staff of eight assistants, all men, and supervises the work of twenty-four other staff members. She is a secondyear law student at the university. Mrs. Marianne Bell McConnaughey, widow of Robert K. McConnaughey, Commissioner of the United States Court of Claims, has been named to the five-member Board of Immigration Appeals. She is a lawyer and has worked for the Government since 1938. Dr. Helen Heffernan, formerly chief of the California Bureau of Elementary Education, is an international authority on teaching methods. She has visited schools and conducted education programs in twenty countries. An author of many monographs on education, she is in demand as a lecturer, and has recently addressed university faculties throughout the United States on the subject of ''Pressures on Children and Youth." Hope Sawyer Buyukmihci, daughter of Edmund J. Sawyer, bird artist and naturalist, is herself a well-known animal artist, photographer, and nature writer. She and her husband own and operate a wild-life refuge of 250 acres near Franklinville, New Jersey, U. S. A. Her children are blessed to have such a playground and such playmates. Her writing about animals shows not only excellent craftsmanship but also a rare and beautiful nature. Women in the Federal Service is the title of a United States Government bulletin which lists and describes the types of positions held by women, the salaries paid, and the opportunities for advancement. It discusses job locations, employment trends and_ standards, semiprofessional and professional occupations, as well as administrative positions in many fields, such as health and welfare, forestry and wild life services, social services, statistical work, library opportunities, and requirements for teaching positions in other countries. 579 Volume 53 August 1966 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Cou @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson 580 Lenore C. Gu Marjorie C. Dariene C. A i ue: Ht;; "Behold, there a w Many are called to do the work of the Father here on earth. The opportunities are plentiful. Provision is made for the service he would have his children give as part of their mortal -experience and as evidence of their love of him and their desire to follow his commandments. Response to calls to service is of great importance, but far more is required than mere acceptance. One who responds as the Savior responded, for the glory of the Father, is both called and chosen. Only those who fulfill their callings, 'sincerely endeavoring to do so righteously, are chosen of the - Lord. Some of those who are called, however, are not chosen. 'And why are they not chosen?' (D&C 121:34) The Doctrine and Covenants lists several reasons: (1) ''Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world' (D&C 121:35). As the poet has said, ''The world is too much with us.'' The pressures of life lead some to begrudge the time necessary to fulfill their callings in the Church to the fullest extent of their talents and powers. (2) Because they ''aspire to the Many called, but fey are Chosen " one's downfall. Servi (4) €Cause t | a member of Called and Chosen. 581 — ee — to the Field _\ WK ee OF) 3 The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 28, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 28, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 29, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 28, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. BACK TO THE HOUSE Christie Lund Coles You went back to the house, you say? In its rough unpaintedness now, Could you envision what it once was, What it still is, remembering-wise, (Remembering as only the heart does)? Did you think of my young feet climbing The crab apple tree by the door? See me picking lilacs by the gate? (Do their bright plumes bloom there anymore?) Did you see the colored windows in the wall, Where the world took on a rainbow hue For me and my young imaginings, (Imagining as only children do)? Oh, | would have gone backward with you, As the mind goes to the walk, to the street, To the swing, and the picket fence Where reality and memory meet. Yes, | would go backward to the bee humming, And the orchard's fragrant beauty. | would forget the city's tedious rush, And the day's unending duty. | would go backward, with hands seeking, With feet uncovered and young, running Back to the river and to the hills, And the house beneath the sky's sunning. 582 n Nearer nt walking in the Cautifu|; Pea " NOt anot huma being jn Sight, and ripping from € trees to break the tillness. After a Sho While Singing and flying from tree to tree, that Moment Go Opened m eyes that Might see and a rful things he had Created, | It such j t Seeing two youn th &rass, WO squirr, Is ca Slowly d from a tree, and Ser to the they Curried fo Cover. Two horses in an adjoin ly over to Where | Od. Th Y both Put their €ads over the "Good Orning," ven felt JOy at see a ter vole, jn uns alongside th temple. The beautif,! Flower eds, the es, the &rass, al Ooked different alked jn the wet fact that | ad Only a Pair of Open Sandals on my feet wet.: Me in my life | sa e W how beautify) God's €arth really js. Bridge Over the Stream. It was quiet and Peacefu), and | ather jn heaven.! Stood there 4nd thank d him Or the won. D - | Prayeg right there, that | Might always be as at oment. Ime is right that | Shall g0 through the On the Outside, T, temple, for | have - The feeling Of pe that Carly sum ace, happiness Comfort, Mer Morning, will, | Pray ars to come, " Stay in my 583 Issued March by General Board of Relief Society 1966 This list of sacred and secular songs will augment the list that is printed in the book Music Leadership in Relief Societies. These songs are appropriate either for Church services or for Singing Mothers concerts. Title Composer Publisher The First Star (m) (Violin may play melody with piano) Come Unto Me (m) This Day Is Mine (d) Prayerful Hour (m) Give to the World, Thy Peace (m) | May Never Pass This Way Again (m) Come, Come Ye Saints (m) Andalucia (d) Teach Me, O Lord (m) Scene and Prayer (Cavallerio) (d) Recessional (m) The Silent Sea (m) When Children Pray (m) Create in Me a Clean Heart (m) He Watching Over Israel (d) Eye Hath Not Seen (m) Rubinstein-Wilson (No. 6080) Tschaikowsky-Riegger Ware-Stickles (No. 3086) Chopin-Durocher (No. 45,629) Moliter-Grant Wizell-Melsher Arr. By Florence J. Madsen (No. 2123) Leouona-Ellan (323) Hamblen Mascagni-Nilson (2-W2536) DeKoven (No. 322-35019) Neidlinger (7185) Fenner Mueller (9501) Mendelssohn (10086) Gaul-Bliss (312-20293) Lorenz, Dayton, Ohio Flammer, N. Y. Boston Music Raymond Hoffman Co., Wichita, Kansas Belwin, Inc. Long Island, New York Shawnee Press, Penn. Belwin, Inc. Ed. B. Marks Music Corp., N. Y. Chappell Witmark & Sons, N. Y. John Church Co., N. Y. G. Schirmer Shattinger G. Schirmer G. Schirmer Presser Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa. 585 Prairie Lullaby (m) O My Father (m) Younger Than Springtime (m) (from South Pacific) Still As the Night (m) Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring (m) He That Keepeth Israel (m) Sheep and Lambs May Safely Graze (d) The Heavens Are Telling (m-d) The Omnipotence (d) Thanks Be to Thee (m-e) The Lord Is My Light (d) Worthy Is the Lamb That Was Slain (d) The King of Glory (m) My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice (d) Onward Christian Soldiers (m-d) The Twenty-third Psalm (d) (The Lord Is My Shepherd) My Soul Is Athirst for God (m) Dawn (d) My Heart Is a Silent Violin (m) Evening Brings Us Home (m-e) Code Gladys Rich (1006) Arr. By Luacine C. Fox Hammerstein-Rodgers Bohm-Oliver Ditson (14093) Bach-Treharne Schloesser-Parks (1233) Bach-Treharne (9529) Haydn-Read (PT 2658) Schubert (1093) Handel-Lefebure Allitsen-Samuelson Handel-Deis J. A. Parks Saint Saens (10688) Sullivan-Simeon Schubert-Saar (CM 5106) Stickles Stickles Curran (7040) Fox-Andrews (CM 5217) Moore (1788) m-medium e-easy Pioneer Music Co., 975 S. West Temple, SLC Luacine C. Fox Williamson Music Co., New York Presser Co. G. Schirmer Kjos Music Co., Park Ridge, Ill. G. Schirmer Carl Fischer, N. Y. G. Schirmer, Boston Galaxy Music Corp., N. Y. Boosey-Hawkes G. Schirmer Kjos Music Company Presser Co. Shawnee Press Carl Fischer Schroeder & Gunther G. Schirmer Carl Fischer A. J. Paris or Kjos Co. D-difficult A Place to Retire & "The trouble with most of us is that we are brought up to believe that happiness is a goal, like a motel at the end of a vacation drive. Like a luscious dessert after a skimpy dinner. Life isn't that way at all, Sadie." "T guess you're night, Vic." Vic McGuire was driving the car. Sadie, his dear little wife, age sixty-five, was seated beside him. It has been a long drive. Vic knew he had driven too far for a man of his age, with no one to take a turn at the wheel. All day he had had a wishful thought that perhaps he could make their destination tonight. Now he realized it was asking too much of nerve and sinew to push on It seemed to Vic that they had been traveling for six months. 586 Frances Carter Yost True, they had started last fall when the leaves turned yellow and red, and the crystal wind whirled _ through their _little orchard. Friends had begged them to come and make their home close to them and enjoy the fruits of city living. It had been rather enjoyable. There was something always exciting going on, that was for sure. He and Sadie had had some most interesting experiences, he couldn't deny that. "What do you Say we stop at the next cosy little motel that has a vacancy sign out, Sadie?" "T'm sure it would be wise. You are probably very tired. I had hoped we would get there, but there's always tomorrow." Sadie smiled up at him affectionately. "Yes, there's always tomorrow," Vic murmured. Then he started wondering about their tomorrows. He wondered how many tomorrows there really were ahead to count on. Someone had said to stop trying to carry the past around on your shoulders. The past is set clay, nothing can change it. We don't need our yesterdays. And who would want a clean slate of yesterdays, even if things did work that way? Here and now is where to start, one can't go back. Look ahead and plug along as best you can. A person retired as I am, Vic McGuire thought, no daily job to work on or worry about, has a lot of time on his hands. Yet time is what life is made of. If you don't have time you don't have anything. Vic started thinking about their friends, Martha and Harvey Slater. "You're kind of quiet, Vic. You're not getting drowsy at the wheel, are you?" "T was just thinking about Martha and Harvey, Sadie."' "Tt was mighty nice of them to invite us to come and be neighbors, to renew our friendship and live close by, Vic." "Yes, it is mighty nice of them. Can't think of anyone I'd rather be near than the Slaters. How would you like city life, Sadie?" "Well, it's as Martha said. They can go to the best theater, and see live stage plays. They have advantages living close to the university. But, somehow, it isn't for me." "That fighting traffic isn't for me. I prefer an easy drive to Church on a Sunday morning and live close enough to walk if." "If I am not able to go to Church."' Sadie laughed. ''You're always so thoughtful. If you are A PLACE TO RETIRE going to Priesthood meeting, you walk, but if I'm going anywhere you get the car out." "A fellow needs the exercise and the fresh air, Sadie."' As they traveled along, the sky turned gold, then silver-blue. And the moon came up behind the black trees. The McGuires were driving on a lonely road now. Vic knew he should have stopped at the last city; but when a person is headed someplace, it seems sort of natural to push ahead. That is what he had done all his life... Push ahead. Ir was hard to remember now, just to meander with no real purpose. Too bad they couldn't have had a big family, like most folks. But that was something he didn't even mention. Sadie couldn't help the fact that she could never be a mother. There wasn't any use dwelling on that. He wouldn't trade Sadie for any mother that he had ever seen. Vic wondered if... Perhaps in eternity... They might be parents have a family? But one must not think that far ahead. "This life is the time to prepare to meet God." Scripture was so much a part of his life that even in his daily thoughts... Scripture seemed to pop into his mind. "Vic, I'm afraid that you are overly tired. We should have stopped back at the other town. Do you think it would be wise to pull off the road for awhile?" "Perhaps I should, Sadie, just for a moment. My eyes are tired." Vic knew it wasn't a safe idea to stop along the wayside, especially in a dark, unknown area. But 587 AUGUST 1966 there wasn't any need to worry have to fight traffic to get to Sadie by mentioning that. Church as much as Martha and "Just a moment of shut-eye, Harvey back east. And when a and then we'll drive on. Ho person gets too old to drive, peohum." ple in the city probably wouldn't Vic McGuire stretched out his be interested in helping elderly legs and slumped under the folks get around." steering wheel. But thoughts still "I thought of that, too, Vic." kept going through his mind. "Well, I believe I have rested He recalled the visit they had my eyes. It's better if we move made to their other best friends, on and get to a town where we John and Emily Kunz who had can put up for the night," chosen to retire on the coast. "T'm rather tired, Vic. A good They had accompanied them to bed will be welcome." Mexico City for the bull fights Vic started the motor, drove and swimming at Acapulco. Why, the car back on the highway, and from their front-room window, _ started humming a tune: "Tumthey could watch the surfing. Te-tum-te-tum-te-tum-te." They also went deep sea fishing "Oh, Vic, there's the Shady frequently. Vic liked that. Rea] Rest Motel. It looks inviting. Sport. He smiled. Shall we stop there?" John had purchased a little "Good idea, Sadie, and there's motor boat and taken a few saila little cafe right next door. Hope ing lessons. Vic wondered if sailthey have a little cook that can ing was wise at their age. He and cook half as well as my Sadie Emily out there in a bay alone. Girl."' f a wind should come up sud- "Oh, Vic, you say the sweetest denly, they could be washed out things."' to sea, and no on would miss It was eight o'clock the next them until it was too late. Morning when Vic folded himself Vic turned restlessly, again in the driver's Seat, with "You're not sleeping, Vic. Sadie at his side. Penny for your thoughts." "With luck, we should make it "Oh huh? I was thinking in good time today, Sadie." about John and Emily." "Tl be glad to get there, Vic. "It was nice of them to invite The trip has been quite exhaustus to their lovely seaside home." ing." "Yes, it was nice of them, They traveled along for someSadie. But the traffic is heavy time, with only the bridge of there, too. Why, John and Emily sound between them. Off to the a " oy. -. * ~ Se ey RP pane he i wah ee 588 north Sadie saw a faint cloud of dust that marked the progress of sheep. "Do you Suppose those sheep are looking for greener pastures, Vic?" "Could be, Sadie. Could be. Then, too,. They might be headed home."' The tires going round and round ate up the road before them. And as the wheels turned, Vic kept humming the song which was always on his mind. "Look, Sadie, there's a retirement village. How would you like to take a look inside and see the set up? Perhaps that is just what we might like. You know, friends right under the same roof. Church within walking distance... Village shopping center." "But." "Let's take a look. I need to stretch my legs anyway." "In that Case, Vic, we surely Should look around." It was a half hour later when the McGuires came back to the car and started down the road again. "Well, what did you think of the rest home, Sadie?" "Tt was nice, Vic, but." "They had nurses and doctors right there, if a person should need them." "Yes, they did, Vic, but." "And the food looked mighty tasty there in the kitchen." "Yes, the food did look good. But I'm used to just looking at you over the table, Vic. All those older people. 'm Sure they are kind and lovely persons, but they looked lonely, even among other folks." "Well, here we are wending our way onward. Look at the sun A PLACE TO RETIRE shining like a brand new tendollar gold piece. Did you ever see a _ ten-dollar gold piece, Sadie?" "Why, yes, my father had one when I was a child." "There wasn't any money like that in our family." Vic chuckled. "I stem from poor, but honest folks." They traveled along in silence for a time, sharing a lovely view here and a point of interest there. Vic found himself thanking God privately that money, or he should say, the lack of money, wasn't too much of a problem to them. He had seen to it that they had enough money put away to keep the wolf from getting past the doorman. Vic started whistling the same tune he had had on his mind for the past three days. "That's one of my favorite songs, Vic. I love the words, they are so meaningful. Difference where I wander, any place that I may roam. When the golden sun sinks in the west, then I think of home." "Very pretty, Sadie. ] always did say you had a good enough voice you could have gone far in opera." "Flattery will get you nowhere, Vic." But he could see that she was pleased. "Well, what do you know! We're almost there! I could shut my eyes and drive it the rest of the way." "Victor McGuire, don't you dare shut your eyes, while you're driving," Sadie chided. "Don't believe I will. Too much to see." 589 AUGUST 1966 "Oh, Vic, look at the climbing roses. They've never been so beautiful!" "Sadie, someone has watered and mowed our lawn while we've been gone. Can you beat that?" Vic McGuire turned into the driveway so automatically anyone watching would know he had done it hundreds of times before. As he did so, people came out of the houses up and down the street. Vic brought the car to a stop and unfolded himself and got out. "Mr. And Mrs. McGuire, you're back! We missed you!"' "Can we help you with your luggage?"' The children gathered closely around Vic, and he stooped down to listen to each one. "The wheel broke on my bicycle and Dad's to busy to help." "Bring it over in the morning, Jerry." ' "Look, Mr. McGuire, I painted my wagon. Do you like the color?" "Fire-engine red is my favorite color, Billy." "Mr. McGuire, I want to help you prune the apple trees again this year." "It's rather late, but better late than never, Dicky boy." "You weren't here to plant a garden, Mr. McGuire, so I planted three extra rows special for you and Mrs. McGuire." "Why, that's mighty thoughtful of you, Tom." At last Vic and Sadie were in the house. Each piece of furniture seemed like an old friend. When their things were put away, they sat down in the comfortable chairs in the living room. It was far too warm for a cosy fire in the fireplace, but still the same cosy warmth of enjoyment was there for them. "God has been good to us, Vic, guiding us home. Home is the best place to be when old age sets in. Here among good friends and neighbors.... Among familiar trees and flowers." "Kast or west, home's best," Vic said. Then he added: 'Only the future can be to our shaping, and now we know for sure we want to shape that future right here on Elm Street." HERE WITH A TINY DAUGHTER Mabel Jones Gabbott It is not very far from where I've been: Out in the playhouse playing with dolls, Under a pear tree reading a book Or at the neighbors throwing balls. It doesn't seem long, but it took some time To climb through digits, quotients, and sums, To run around predicates and proper nouns, And investigate land maps and why the bee hums. It is not very far, from primping and proms, From balancing toe shoes and basking in sun, From looking at moons with star-dusted eyes And falling in love with dozens—then one. It is not very far from where I've been, But now you are here, we can do it again. 590 Garden House _ - _——- si ee od 5 the Home | inside and out Y - a = —_ - —_—'> nn Y pi sah woe Photograph by Don Knight SPARKS OF CREATIVITY Pearle M. Olsen Fine sparks of creativity, expressed in various ways, Exist in all — to some degree When we stop to appraise. Not only on a paper, canvas, screen or on a stage— Or through an instrument or voice Do artists best engage. More often with a salad, or fashioning a dress— In managing a loving home Real artists find success. The neighbor who rejoices or grieves along with you Releases sparks and sometimes flames of love— Creating, too! In all human relationships, artistic skill of some Will kindle charity of heart For many years to come! 591 excess dough. Put the dumpling into a cloth bag, keeping it right side up. Leave room for expansion, and tie the bag tight. Place into deep boiling water for 45 minutes. Then take it from the water, remove the bag, and place dumpling on a platter. (If the oven happens to be hot, slip the dumpling in for a few: minutes to dry. If not, serve as it is.) A modern method of cooking this dumpling is to place it in a greased bowl or shallow can, cover tightly, and place in a pan or kettle of boiling water. Boil for 45 minutes, being sure to keep the water boiling and about half way up the side of the bowl. The dumpling can also be baked in a 375° oven for 45 minutes. SAUCE NO. 1 Melt 1 cup sugar in a heavy pan, then add 234 cups cold water. Stir until it boils and the sugar is dissolved. Add a dash of salt and 2 tbsp. Flour to 14 cup water and blend until smooth, then stir into the boiling sugar-water mixture and cook for two or three minutes. Add a walnut-sized lump of butter and flavor with lemon extract or juice. Serve hot over the apple dumpling. SAUCE NO. 2 Dissolve one-half cup sugar in two cups warm milk. Flavor with vanilla and a dash of nutmeg. Serve on apple dumpling or other puddings. AUGUST Alda L. Brown THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT MACAROON CAKE 4 ozs. Butter 6 ozs. Flour 4 ozs. Sugar pinch of salt 3 egg yolks 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla 5 ozs. Milk Method: Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and vanilla, beat well. Add sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Spread in a greased shallow tin and cover with the following macaroon mixture: Macaroon Mixture: 3 egg whites, 4 ozs. Sugar, and 10 ozs. Coconut. Beat egg whites until quite stiff, fold in sugar and coconut. Bake about 1 hour at 400°F. CHOCOLATE BUTTER ICING Use amounts of powdered sugar according to thickness of icing desired for cake. For each cup (8 ounces) of powdered sugar, add two level tbsp. Softened butter, and 4 level tbsp. Melted unsweetened dark chocolate or 4 level tbsp. Unsweetened cocoa. Mix to desired consistency with canned milk or fresh cream. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla flavoring to mixture for each 1 cup of sugar. Variations in amounts of butter and chocolate may be made as desired. AFGHANS 7 ozs. Butter 1 oz. Cocoa 3 ozs. Sugar 2 ozs. Cornflakes 6 ozs. Flour Method: Soften butter, add sugar and beat to a cream, add flour, cocoa, and lastly, cornflakes. Put teaspoonfuls on a greased oven tray and bake about 15 minutes at 350° F. When cold, ice with chocolate icing and put walnuts on top. VANILLA WAFER CAKE Alice Best 1 c. Butter —: if 1 c. Chopped pecans (more if 1 c. Sugar - desired) 6 eggs — ial 1 c. Raisins (seedless or ground) 1 12 oz. Box of vanilla wafers 1% tsp. Allspice 1%, c. Milk Po (if desired) 1 17 oz. Pkg. Flaked coconu Cream butter, add sugar and beat well. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla wafers, which have been crushed, alternately with milk. Bake in a tube cake pan at 275° F. For 114 hours. After cake has cooked enough to hold cherries or other candied fruit you may decorate the top. 595 Quickie Recipes and Cooking Hints Bernice Broderick We mothers who must cook for families are always on the alert for new and tasty dishes. When there's an especially good lunch served at Relief Society work meetings, naturally we want the recipes. The cooking committee in our ward often uses the recipes from The Relief Society Magazine, and they tell us in which issue the recipes can be found. They are generous with other recipes, too. One of our cooks gave me the recipe for 'Porcupines," explaining that it has been in her family for years. PORCUPINES (We call them Porkypines) 1 Ib. Hamburger 14 c. Rice (uncooked) onion, as desired 1 can tomato soup (grated or chopped) 34, can water garlic salt, oregano, sage I use my own home-canned tomato juice instead of the soup and water. I add garlic salt, oregano, and sage. Mix hamburger, rice, and onion to form balls the size of walnuts. Place in a skillet large enough to avoid crowding. Pour soup and water over the balls, and cook over medium heat for 45-60 minutes, or until rice is tender. Occasionally turn the meat balls carefully, during the cooking, so the meat will not scorch. Be prepared to double or triple the recipe, for your family will love these Porcupines. I improvised a dish one time from sheer necessity. I was out of bread and had very little hamburger. I reasoned that I would have to do something with the meat to stretch it, and provide some kind of bread to go with it. Result: Burger and Dumplings. BURGER AND DUMPLINGS Use the same recipe as for Porcupines, but omit the rice, and add extra moisture. Brown hamburger, add onions, seasonings, and liquid. Simmer for a few minutes, then drop in dumplings from your favorite recipe. Steam about 10 minutes. Delicious! For an extra-special taste treat, try adding oregano and Parmesan cheese to the dumplings. Superb! If your family is onion-shy, try grating the onion, but be careful with it. It seems to go farther that way. 596 QUICKIE RECIPES AND COOKING HINTS Here's a recipe to adapt to your own needs. SKILLET DINNER Peel enough potatoes for your family, and cut into cubes. Add chopped onion, salt, and other seasonings to taste, and enough water to half-way cover. Steam until potatoes are tender. Add cubed bologna, ham, or canned lunch meat, and enough canned milk to make the dish creamy. Allow to stand for several minutes before serving. Grated cheese enhances the flavor and nutrition. Or, fry some bacon and add potatoes and corn for a delicious meal in a skillet. TRICKS WITH INSTANT PUDDINGS Try serving instant pudding in an ice-cream cone for a children's surprise. Banana flavor is especially good with sliced bananas. Sprinkle with nuts, cake candies, coconut, or top with a cherry. If you have a blender, use it to good advantage. Prepare your instant pudding according to directions, then freeze in your ice tray. When ready to use, spoon the frozen pudding into your blender. Add sugar, flavoring, a little milk (whole, canned, or skim, depending on how calorie-conscious you are) and blend to desired consistency. USING YOUR BLENDER Speaking of blenders, don't let yours sit idle, especially if you have a freezer, too. I prepare powdered milk as for drinking, then freeze several trays. The frozen milk is then ready for milk shakes at a moment's notice. Half a tray will make a blenderful. Add about 14 c. Sugar, 1% c. Fluid milk, bananas, frozen peaches, strawberries, raspberries, cantaloupe, and flavoring. Vanilla is good, but for something special, try orange or some other fruit flavor. Canned fruits can be used, too. Use the same recipe, substituting canned fruits for the frozen fruits. FREEZING FRESH FRUITS If you are in an area where fresh fruits are easily available, freeze your own fruits. Add sugar as desired to crushed strawberries, peaches, apricots, raspberries, etc., and freeze in plastic bags or milk cartons. Frozen peaches will turn brown when thawing, so use them immediately. Did you know that you can freeze rhubarb with no preparation but cutting it in pieces? When ready to use, prepare as for fresh rhubarb. SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING PRESERVES When I make preserves, I cook plums, apricots, peaches, in a small amount of water (after pitting), and cook until tender. I pour off all the juice I can, then mash the fruit with a potato masher. Usually it is necessary to pour off the juice again. Then I continue with the jam in the usual manner, but I seldom use pectin because the fruit is so free from juice. I don't use as much sugar as the recipe calls for, which gives the jam more of a fresh fruit flavor. But I don't waste the juice. Oh, no! I sweeten it and bottle it for use in fruit punch. For extra flavor and to help it set, add flavored gelatin to jam. USE OF THE HOME FREEZER Don't let your freezer sit idle during the canning season. Many kinds of vegetables can be frozen very well. I have successfully frozen asparagus, beet greens, chard, beets, corn-on-the-cob, and corn cut off the cob, as well as other foods. During the hot weather, I freeze my bread to keep it fresh. Also, other baked goods freeze well and are like freshly baked products when they are thawed. Freezing leftovers is a good economy procedure, and will provide meals when you don't have time to cook. 597 Shirley Thulin. Aes tree "eo d ry) * ".. U:. - > +- ' - pe ths * peiten., | bet Fees, ' bg 54 P" - -:. Test 4; ad:> 5: shes. - os 4 — ~=ZS al te - - > ome | " -- —% i - ~~?. -—- = - > *~.,; "— oL): +P < dee 7 ) Pane: a> a' 47 = i= oe -. + > * - died - " ny ¢.; Lay o-" ~ ~, y @ Here's a new recipe! Not a food recipe, but one for two smart luncheon cloths with napkins to match, that are almost pretty enough to eat. They are so fresh looking and eye pleasing, you will want to invite your neighbors in for an impromptu luncheon to show them off. The first one has realistic fruit appliqued in each corner of a gaily | checked cloth. The material needed is just 114 yards of any good cotton check, 36 inches wide. | Make the cloth 36 inches square and make four napkins from the | remaining half yard. If you don't have bits of plain colored material from which to cut the fruit, get a fourth yard of each of the following: yellow for the pears, red for the cherries, green for the leaves, and lavender for the grapes. Cut your patterns from paper first. Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4, will give you the general shape to enlarge. When tracing them on your material, be sure to leave a small margin all around each piece to turn under. It is best to press the edges under and baste them on in place before stitching to the cloth. If you have a zigzag machine, you can applique the brightly colored fruit on in a jiffy. Be sure to baste in place and use matching thread. Then just zigzag all around each piece. If you have the stitches close together, it will never fray no matter how much washing it undergoes. — You may want to make big red apples or oranges in place of the fruit suggested. Now, to finish, pull the threads to make a fringe about an inch wide on all four edges of the napkins and cloth. Run a machine stitch close to the edge to insure against further unraveling. 598 I (figure 1) Pear |: (figure 2) Cherries, (figure 4) Grapes (figure 3) Leaves The second cloth is even easier. It takes a yard and a half of rayon burlap. If the burlap is wider than 36 inches, get another half yard, making two yards in all. This will let you have a larger cloth. Make the cloth square, and use the remainder for napkins. You will also need some six-strand embroidery thread. You can make beautiful color combinations. The rayon fabric comes in beautiful shades of tan, orange, greens... Then choose thread to contrast. Bright orange thread looks so pretty on a tan fabric. You are going to use three or four rows of stitching, So use different colors, such as two rows of orange, and one of light green. To make the cloth, first cut off both selvage edges all along each side. Then pull a thread near the top edge to show you where to cut off the uneven part. Now measure down so the cloth will be square, and 599 AUGUST 1966 pull another thread. This ensures your cutting evenly. Fringe the cloth and napkins all around and machine stitch with matching thread close to the fringe so threads will not pull out. For running stitches, take three strands of brightly-colored embroidery thread and without breaking and knotting the end, make a running stitch by hand in a design all around the cloth about 6 inches from the edge. (fig.5) You can be as fancy or as plain with the design as you wish. Keep pulling the thread through so that there is one continuous thread all around with only one starting or stopping place. Do not use yarn, because it will shrink and pull or may fade when the cloth is laundered. Run another color of thread near the first one, and then a third and fourth one if desired. All stitching could be the same color, or all different, as you want. Make the napkins to match. (figure 5) Running stitches at edge of cloth GARDENER'S NOTE Enid F. Woolley Judbury, Huon, Tasmania Australia Love is a precious plant which needs the sunshine of humor to keep it constantly in bloom. It also needs the weeds of selfishness to be continually cleared from its roots, lest the gentle watering of forgiveness cannot moisten the soil sufficiently to permit new shoots to burst through. Regularly mix and apply equal measures of the fertilizers of trust and loyalty each time you spray the leaves with tolerance. This treatment, along with the careful pruning of any branches of self-pity, will ensure lifelong joy in the growth of your plants and endless delight in the beauty of their blooms and the perfume they send forth. 600 Vhat a Beautiful Day '=a & my G. Bond. "!. = + =.. ~ " # -. - eee Oe. Mw It was the first time since my illness I felt I could walk the one block from our home to the chapel. As I returned home from Relief Society several of the sisters offered me a ride, but I kindly refused. I just wanted to take in the beauty of the day and reflect on the soulstirring lessons and testimonies we had just heard. The sky was blue, with not one cloud, and the air was balmy. I stopped to watch three jets as they maneuvered high above the earth. The white streams made a lacy pattern against the azure sky. It made me think of ruffled lace. How thankful I was that I had eyes to take in all this beauty, and ears to hear the songs of the birds. The very air breathed "Wake up and live." There is so much beauty all around us, yet we are usually in too much haste really to enjoy the things we take for granted. How grateful I am to be alive and able to enjoy these wonderful things around me. As I continued on my way I thought of the things that could give me happiness and didn't cost much except a little effort. Some women need a new hat to make them happy, but I need only to have the windows of my home washed so I can really see the beauty outside and inside, too. Yes, inside. Everything looks brighter inside and outside when our windows are clean. This suggests to me that we should also keep the windows of our souls washed clean so we can truly see the beauties of the gospel. If these windows are clean, the light of the gospel can shine through from the outside in, as well as from the inside out, and fill our lives with all its radiance. Let us take a few minutes each day to enjoy the beauty around us, keeping our windows bright and shining to appreciate and magnify the beauties of the gospel and of life. Let us thank our Father in heaven for the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and the opportunities it gives us for development and service. 601 AUGUST 1966 MARJORIE B. SILVER — MAKER OF FRUIT CAKES Marjorie Blake Silver, Newark, California, is an expert at making — fruit cakes. It all began thirteen years ago, when the Centerville Ward was in need of funds for building a chapel. Sister Silver was given five dollars ''to develop her talents.'' Thus began a baking career. Sister Silver made the cakes from an old recipe brought from Scotland, her native country. From the sale of the first cakes she received several hundred dollars for the chapel building fund. Then the Centerville ward was divided, and in the new ward, Sister Silver repeated her previously successful project. In October she again began making fruit cakes, and before Christmas she had used over 150 pounds each of sugar and flour, 100 pounds of walnuts, seventy-five pounds of margerine, and large amounts of raisins, glazed fruits, and spices. She made 1,098 fruit cakes in 1965, and donated $1,000 to the building fund for the Newark Chapel. Many of her cakes were sent to faraway places, including Florida, France, and Germany. This project occupied the mornings of her busy days. Four afternoons of each week she spent in the Oakland Temple. 602 surface Cleaning Dorothy C. Little @ It's not your uncleaned house that makes you nervous, nor is it your noisy children. It's the clutter. So get rid of the clutter! It takes about ten minutes to each room. Here is the way to surface-clean your house. First stack the breakfast dishes in the sink and let them soak in hot, soapy water. Then make the beds. Carry with you from room to room a large paper sack, a duster, and a damp rag. Into the sack put papers and things to be thrown away. Dust, wipe away children's finger marks, and you're ready if someone drops by. Now, wash the dishes. Never tackle any project like sewing or vanning, until the house has been surface-cleaned. If toys and papers are picked up and the rugs are straight, you can feel pretty good about things! Every woman needs a "miscellaneous drawer," and the bigger the better! Whether you have a harvest crew trooping in for dinner, or you just saw Aunt Matilda and her family drive into the yard, your miscellaneous drawer will come to your rescue. Just scoop up the coloring books, crayons, and peanut butter sandwich crusts all in one armful and dump them into the drawer. You will usually be able to cram it shut before anybody sees you. Plenty of time to sort things out later! One smart housewife uses her miscellaneous drawer for everything her family forgets to put away. Whenever a member of the family leaves an article in the living room, and it comes up missing, he always knows where to look for it without asking Mom. Blessed miscellaneous drawer! About that harvest crew again—if you ever find yourself at the stroke of twelve with no dinner ready, just hurry and set the table, including the milk and bread. No one will complain as they wait in the living room and you will have about fifteen minutes in which to get something together. (Don't try this very often!) If dinner happens to be every bit ready on the stove, keeping hot, but the table is not set, someone is likely to ask if he has time to grease the tractor before he eats. Believe me, it's a good idea to set the table as soon as the potatoes are peeled! 603 Tell Me of Love Chapter 2 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle asking her to fly home at once due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon goes with her. While traveling, they meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. Gw The heat was stifling and heavy, even at five o'clock in the morning, as they edged through the crowd at the airport on Fiji. "Oh, look at my feet!" Betz moaned. "They are swollen twice the size of my shoes." "You can expect that," Miss Bridges explained. "We have dropped down to a low altitude. But it is extra warm here for September. This is the beginning of our springtime." "But Julie's feet aren't swollen," Betz said. "Neither are yours. Why mine?" 604 Rosa Lee Lloyd "Sometimes mine swell,' Miss Bridges told her. "There's no rule. Maybe we can buy some straw sandals somewhere." "T'll need a size twelve!" Betz laughed. "Look, the big bus is crowded." "There's an old jeep with a 'for hire' sign on it," Julie pointed out. "The driver looks real elegant, with his white trousers and red sash." "Would you rather ride a bicycle?" Julie suggested, pointing to a rack of them nearby. "Let's do it!" Betz agreed. Then they both looked at Miss Bridges. "Pll take my chances in the old jeep," she said, smiling. "We'll go ahead up the trail. Follow closely so you won't get lost. I want you to meet someone I know at a fruit stand." The trail was a dirt road leading upward through lush tropical plants six feet high on either side. The sun beat down mercilessly on their heads. Flies and _ insects buzzed around them. Julie pedaled in a slow, steady rhythm, but Betz raced off ahead of her. When Julie finally caught up with her she had thrown herself on the side of the path in an exhausted heap. "Oh, Julie!" she wailed. 'I can't go on. I'll wait here for you." "Not here!" Julie said. ""You're in an ant bed." She pulled her up and brushed her off, but she was already burning with bites. "Let's go back to the plane," Betz demanded. "This heat is ghastly." "Would you like a nice cool drink of pineapple juice?" Julie asked, gently. "Sure, I would. You get it for me, Julie. You haven't been in an ant bed." "Righto," Julie agreed. "You look like a painted clown. But now, you look at me. My head is ready to pop. My eyes hurt with the glare, but I know we've got to go on if we get that pineapple juice. So—let's get on with it." "T can't make it up there, Julie," Betz said. Julie gave her a push. Little glints were in her eyes. "You can make it," she said. "Tf you're going around the world you better start right now to prove you can take it." Betz bit her lip. "I didn't know you could be so—so utterly." "So utterly what?' Julie laughed. 'You know I love you, Betz, but quit acting like a baby. TELL ME OF LOVE We're just wasting time. Maybe they'll have some eucalyptus oil for those bites." Reluctantly, Betz got on her bicycle again. Five minutes later they saw the old jeep parked beside a thatched hut. There was a wide counter holding huge containers of pineapple juice. Dozens of people were quenching their thirst with the luscious drink. Miss Bridges was talking to a sweet-faced woman her own age and an older man, very tall, with a sandy-colored beard. "Well, hello!" Miss Bridges greeted them. The tall man handed them gay mugs of the fruit juice. "Drink well, girls,' he said with a true Australian accent. Julie was sure she had seen him somewhere before. | "This is my friend, Lucile Clark,' Miss Bridges explained, "and her uncle, Dan Fargo."' "They call me Big Dan," he said with a grin that showed his fine white teeth. "That is what you both shall call me." 'He is a real character,' Betz whispered back. "I'll bet he knew Captain Kid and Long John Silver." "Did you ever taste such juice?" Miss Bridges asked them. "Umm!" Betz smacked her lips. 'Now, if I can buy some eucalyptus oil I'll be okay. Look at these bites!" "You are a sight." "We might have a drop or two left,' Big Dan said. "We've nearly hit the bottom of the barrel I sent over from Australia. Those are just little ant bites. They come and go like ripples on the sea. Shall we tip the barrel?" 605 AUGUST 1966 Big Dan said to Lucile as they disappeared inside the hut. Miss Bridges said quickly: "I wanted you to meet these wonderful people. I didn't know Big Dan was here so this is a privilege. He is always in demand somewhere as he is an expert on water conditions in Australia. He is a self-taught man, but his opinions and experience are sought after by top engineers. He has just had a message to retum to Australia, so he will be on the plane with us." "Then he can ride my bicycle back down the hill," Betz said. "T']l go in the jeep with you." "Shall we wait and see?" Miss Bridges asked. "We can trust Big Dan." "T would like to know your friends better," Julie said, hoping Miss Bridges would overlook Betz's suggestion. "Big Dan has been a father to Lucile and her three sons," Miss Bridges went on. "Her husband was killed in a willie-willie out in Carnarvon twenty years ago. Big Dan brought them here to Fiji. He owned this property and the boys worked hard with the pineapples. Lucile took care of this fruit stand. Now the boys are in the University at Sydney. As soon as they are graduated and earning their own living, Lucile will return home. She is very proud of her three sons." "Three sons!" Julie repeated. "How wonderful." "Yes, isn't it?" Miss Bridges answered with a lonesomeness in her voice. "It wasn't easy for any of them way out here. I always stop every trip so I can keep in touch. Lucile and I went to school together in Perth." 606 "I'm sure she's glad to see you," Betz said. "You've traveled all over the world and can keep her up-to-date." "Tucile gives me more than I give her," Miss Bridges answered quietly. 'True, I have been all over the world, but the world has come to Lucile Clark. Her life has been one of fulfillment in spite of hardship. Sometimes:.. I almost envy Lucile." Big Dan came out of the hut with a battered old suitcase and his guitar slung over his shoulder. Lucile hurried to serve the new customers. Big Dan handed Betz a tiny bottle of oil. Betz dabbed the oil on swollen bites. "Oh, it really does help," breathed gratefully. Big Dan put his suitcase and guitar in the back of the jeep and came back to the stand. He wore a colored plaid shirt and a big hat almost like an American cowboy. "PII ride one bicycle and wheel the other," he said. "The girls can ride back with you, Carolyn. There's only twenty minutes till take-off." the she Miss Bridges looked at Betz with a significant smile. "He is a real gentleman," she murmured. Betz smiled, too. She's really a good sport, Julie thought. Then Betz said, "Why don't we call you Carolyn, Miss Bridges? Let's not be so stuffy." Julie caught her breath. Lucile held a glass of juice in mid-air as she looked at Carolyn Bridges who drew herself up straight and tall and every inch the hospital matron, for a long, silent moment. Big Dan lifted one eyebrow a half inch above the other one, waiting for Carolyn's answer. ArT last a smile edged her lips, and she put her hand on Betz's shoulders. "Quite right!" she said. ''Let's not be stuffy. You may call me Carolyn from now on."' Julie relaxed. The words ''quite right" instead of "righto" kept Carolyn up on a pedestal with Grandfather and Aunt Isabelle. "Time to go!"' Big Dan called out. He patted Lucile and pinched her cheek. "Take it easy," he said. ''I'll be back when the job is finished."' Then he was off down the hill with the bicycles. "Goodbye Fiji Islands," Betz sang out as they crowded into the jeep. "The paradise of the Pacific." Carolyn laughed. "They say that about every island we pass. But each one is a little paradise. Goodbye, Lucile," she waved again. "See you next trip." Breakfast was served ten minutes after they took off from Fiji. Julie was hungry and, in spite of her anxiety, she enjoyed a thick TELL ME OF LOVE slice of ham, sweet rolls, milk, and a banana. They were flying high now, far above great cotton-puff clouds. Julie took Ron's last letter from her purse and read it dreamily. Grandfather considered one letter a month enough. This letter was dated August seventeenth, a month ago. Julie, My Love: The first year at the University is almost over. I am glad that Grandfather will be pleased when he sees my number in the paper. Being separated from you is beyond measure in loneliness and yearning. Last week end I went up north into the bush with a group of hydraulic engineers from school. As you know, it has always been my dream to help make this wilderness green and productive, so people like our own parents can live in comfort. The ride up the coast in Bob Stouffer's old car was very cold and miserable. We nearly froze at night, although we wore our socks and kept a fire burning. As you know, Western Australia has only two seasons, winter and summer. Our winter came in April, and now it is August, and spring is just breaking through without much success. The scenery was a lonely stretch, mile after mile. I was depressed and lonely and resentful because we are forced to be separated. I can quit school, I thought, and go to the United States where Julie is. I was tired of the bush without you there. And then, just before we reached Dongarra, and about ten miles from Grandfather's station, we unexpectedly came upon fields of flowers— pink and blue and yellow. I have never seen such gorgeous color. It was like driving through the rainbow. Bob and I knew they were the "Everlastings.' The petals were crisp and transparent. It was a 607 AUGUST 1966 feast of beauty. I wished you were there with me. I decided to ride the ten miles to our station. Anyway, I wanted to see my kelpie, Casey Jones. I love that old sheep dog and it's always a big day for him when I can get up there. But that's ahead of my story. As I stood there in that field of flowers, I decided again that I would give up school and hit out for the United States. No one can keep me from Julie, I thought. Then, as though someone touched my shoulder, I felt the presence of Grannie, and something she had said to me during her last illness came back to me. What courage she had, Julie. What faith in spite of her pain. I was eighteen again. I had come from the tennis tournament dragging my feet because I had lost. As usual, I went upstairs to say goodnight to Grannie and to tell her about the game. "I know," she said. "Tt is hard to lose when you have worked so hard to win; but the work and the striving are never lost. That effort is always yours, and takes you one step upward on the stairway of life. Learn this, my boy, and remember it always—to live is to know both bitter and sweet. No one, rich or poor, escapes that. The wise ones cherish the sweet. And the bitter fades away." "Grannie,"' I asked her, "are you reminding me to count my _ blessings?" "IT am, indeed," she smiled back. So, right there, in that field of flowers, I thanked our Heavenly Father for beauty and life. I filled my heart with gratitude for all the years of our childhood together with the Ridgehaven family. I asked him for courage and intelligence to carry out Grandfather's demands. Peace came to me, Julie, and strength to carry on toward completing my course at the University. So we must wait patiently for that golden day when we will be to- 605 gether again. Always remember that my love for you ts a field of everlasting flowers, brightening the long, lonely road. Love always, Ron P. S. Yes, I saw Casey Jones and had a beaut of a time to make him stay on the ranch. Next month we are going further inland to inspect some sites for possible development of underground water. It should be interesting and instructive. WULIE folded the letter and put it back in her purse. Grannie was right. You had to cherish the sweet in this world. Big Dan, seated beside Julie, looked down at her and said, "The sea looks as vast and lonely as the Australian bush." "Yes," Julie said, "I remember." "You have lived in the bush country?" he asked. "T lived out there until I was nine years old," Julie told him. "My mother taught me to sing and play the banjo. She said every girl should carry her own music with her."' Julie pointed to the banjo. ""The man I am going to marry plays the guitar, so we will have our own music. He is out in Perth learning to be an hydraulic engineer. Someday we will live in the bush, because Ron's work will be there." The smile faded from Big Dan's lips. A deep frown puckered his brows together. "Ron? The boy's name is Ron?" he questioned. "Why, yes!" Julie beamed. "Do you know him? His name is Ron McLaren." Big Dan looked at Carolyn. Their eyes caught and held, and a message passed between them. Seeeroas FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Edmonton Stake (Alberta, Canada) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "April 29th was a thrilling evening for 130 Singing Mothers of Edmonton Stake, as they presented 'Magic of Melody.' Under the direction of Beulah Doney, chorister, accompanied by June Holden, organist, the Singing Mothers sang sacred and secular music to an audience of 900 people. Six of the wards each sang one number, and the combined chorus delighted all with five selections. Ilean Begieneman was the narrator for the evening. Three guest artists: Anne Harris (soprano), Heather Sills (flutist), and Donna Lowry (organist) added variety and enjoyment to the recital. This was the first Singing Mothers recital attempted in Edmonton Stake, and was very successful. It was an effective missionary tool for Relief Society, as well as stimulating the interest of many nonmembers in attendance." San Fernando Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: "In honor of the anniversary of Relief Society, and to share in the missionary effort that is being accelerated in this stake, approximately eighty-five Relief Society sisters from the eleven wards presented a concert under the able direction of Alta Hansen, chorister, and Hazel Holmes, organist. "Lucille Pack, Education Counselor, was in charge of the program, which inchided an original narration written by Tamara Burnham and Delilah Outram, portraying the story of the organization of Relief Society and its place in the life of a Latter-day Saint mother. All sisters who participated felt a sense of achievement and joy from this experience, and were not only thrilled with being able to share it with their families and friends in the Church, but with the added opportunity for teaching the gospel to nonmember friends who were in attendance." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 14, 1966 Front row, left to right: Wilmirth Simmons; Selma Hyde and Ellen Allgood (twins); Sadie McGuire;. Ethel Kemp; Lovina Harrison. Back row, standing, left to right: Matilda Smith; Ruth Davidson; Emily Blair; Annie Smith; Louise Riska; Mina S. Mickelsen; Melissa Smith. LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: ""Eaeh of the departments of Relief Society, including the nursery, was featured at the convention. Following a program, for which the stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, a fashion show was held. The sisters who had taken basic sewing courses in each of the wards modeled the dresses they had made. "Special recognition was accorded the visiting teachers. Honored guests were the sisters who were eighty years of age, or older, or who had given forty-five years or more of service in visiting teaching. The number of years of visiting teaching of the eighteen sisters in this group totals over seven hundred years. Many of the sisters are still serving." 610 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.; AUGUST 1966 Spanish-American Mission, Llano Branch (Pefiasco, New Mexico) Bazaar and Luncheon, March 17, 1966 Elizabeth D. Matthews, Supervisor, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society, reports: ''To commemorate the birthday of Relief Society, the sisters of the Llano Branch held a bazaar and enchilada luncheon. They sold hand-embroidered dish towels, table covers, aprons, pillow cases, and hat-shaped pincushions. Many people came from far away to attend the celebration, even from as far away as Taos. The delicious enchilada luncheon was pleasing to everyone. "The sisters here are very excited to know that The Relief Society Magazine will be printed in Spanish (beginning in June 1966). None of the sisters reads English, and now they will have the benefits of this wonderful Magazine each month." Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Presents Awards in Poetry Writing Contest March 17, 1966 Left to right: Marjorie E. V. Snyder, first place winner; other winners: Joanne B. Doxey, Philinda K. Naegle, and Peggy Ihrke. Fern A. Merrill, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Realizing that there is much creative talent among our stake membership, and with the desire to keep Relief Society interest high during the summer months, last summer we decided to sponsor a poetry contest open to all our membership, with the deadline set for November 30, 1965. To stimulate and encourage the timid, we offered help through a poetry clinic conducted by a competent sister. The response received from all age levels was most gratifying. We were thrilled with the quality and beauty of expression in the poems. Three categories of poetry were submitted: serious, light, and poetry for children. "All the entrants were honored during the proceedings of our combined March leadership meeting and Relief Society anniversary brunch. Each entrant was given a lovely corsage, and the winners were also given copies of books of poems." Juab Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show for Anniversary Observance March 16, 1966 Blanche B. Brough, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, reports: "A spring fashion show and Relief Society anniversary was held at the stake center, Nephi, Utah. The fashion show was under the direction of Counselor Jean D. Westring and work meeting leader Georgia P. Carter. The theme was 'Home Sewing Can Be Easy, Fun, and Profitable.' Each ward held sewing classes under the direction of the work leaders. "There were 158 sisters who sewed articles for themselves and their children. Suits, coats, best dresses, house dresses, formal evening dresses, and nightwear were modeled, and a number of articles were attractively displayed in the foyer. This project was started after the Christmas holidays. There were over two hundred articles completed. The building was attractively decorated with spring flowers and ornamental trees. It looked very festive and refreshing after winter's drabness. The Singing Mothers from two wards furnished appropriate music. Prizes were presented to the wards having the greatest percentage of members participating, with each ward being recognized for its efforts. "Light refreshments were served to over 400 in attendance. There was much enthusiasm created throughout the stake, and many learned new skills and that sewing can be easy, fun, and profitable. The picture does not show all of the participants, since all could not be included in one picture." 612 - = NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1966 Torrance Stake (California), Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society Conducts Anniversary Essay Contest, March 29, 1966 Dorothy S. Keith, Education Counselor, is shown presenting a Relief Society bracelet to Joyce G. Potter, Secretary-Treasurer, who won the essay contest. Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, reports: "The contest was held so that the sisters could express and share their feeling about Relief Society in conjunction with the 124th birthday of the Society. The subject was 'What Relief Society Means to Me,' and many sisters participated. Excerpts from all the essays were read, after which the winning essay was read in full, and the award made to Mrs. Potter. Stake board members Mary Jane Rahlf, President; Donna Powers, Education Counselor; and Peggy Puffer, literature class leader, served as judges for the essays. Mary A. Huyck, President, Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society, conducted the meeting, at which Nadine Newland, Work Counselor, gave a very interesting talk on the Relief Society emblem, and the history of the sego lily. "A skit was presented, featuring Sister Just Moved In, Sister Just Too Tired, Sister Much Too Busy, Sister Full of Joy, and Sister Happy Life. The Rolling Hills Singing Mothers presented 'Why a Singing Mother Sings,' and 'I Whistle a Happy Tune.' A delicious luncheon was served at tables decorated in Relief Society colors. The occasion was one of our most wonderful events. The message and spirit of Relief Society reached many, many sisters this day." East St. George Stake (Utah), Fifth Ward Relief Society Presents Pioneer Theme Birthday Party, March 15, 1966 Left to right, former presidents: Fern Musser; Leila Atkin; Emma McArthur; Wanda Snow; Mae Nielson; Roma Esplin; Mildred Heaton; Annette Foremaster; Leila Sullivan; Virginia Knell, now serving as ward Relief Society president. Seated in front, in pioneer costumes: Dianne Jennings, chorister (left); and Arline Huber. Mildred Heaton, President, East St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pictured are nine of the ten past presidents of the Fifth Ward Relief Society. All of them were honored and a special tribute was paid to each one. Corrine Bowler, the other former president, could not attend the social or be in the picture. Sister Atkin and Sister Esplin have served, also, as stake Relief Society presidents, and Sister Heaton is now the stake president. A pioneer theme was carried out for the social both in refreshments and in table decorations. Pioneer relics and furniture were displayed." South Bear River Stake (Utah) Three Generations of Relief Society Presidents Carry on the Tradition of Devotion to Relief Society Gene to right: Joan Francom Smith; Angie Cottle Francom; Zina Garner ottle. Ruth J. Hunsaker, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A young Relief Society president is following in the footsteps of her mother and grandmother in that activity. All three have been members of the Elwood Ward in South Bear River Stake. The youngest president is Joan Francom Smith, President of Tacoma Sixth Ward Relief Society, Tacoma, Washington, who served 1964-65. Her mother Angie Cottle Francom is presently serving as president of Elwood Ward Relief Society. The grandmother Zina Garner Cottle was president of Hooper First Ward Relief Society in Lakeview Stake, Utah, from 1952-1955." 614 NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1966 North Davis Stake (Utah), Sunset Ward Holds Annual Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Sixth and seventh from the left in the front row: Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Ward Relief Society; and Secretary-Treasurer Ann Marie Hirschi; Education Counselor Kathryn Shelton stands at the right in the back row; Work Counselor Patricia Perkins stands at the left in the back row. Lillian W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: "These four sisters (the officers) are mothers of nineteen children, ranging in age from five weeks to twelve years. The young mothers of this ward certainly have the Relief Society spirit, as they gather each Wednesday morning at ten A. M., to receive the spiritual guidance which comes from Relief Society meetings. In addition to the thirty-seven sisters and twenty-six children in the picture, there were twenty-seven pre-school children present in the nursery when this picture was taken. The large attendance of babies and children at a Relief Society meeting is typical of many of the wards in North Davis Stake, which have a majority membership of young families. "At the annual Relief Society birthday party, Sylvia Smith, fourth from the right in the front row, was presented a corsage and honored with a program of music and narration depicting her life and service in Relief Society. Sister Smith was a counselor in the presidency of the first Relief Society in Sunset Ward, then became the second president, and was again president at a later date, having a total of fourteen years service as Relief Society president. She has been a visiting teacher for thirty years, and is still active in this calling. She is a faithful member and an inspiration to all. "The sister in the front row in the wheel chair has five boys and a little girl. She has taught the social science lessons for several years, and has taught the theology lessons for the past two years. Her cheerfulness, faith, and testimony are an inspiration to all the members." 616 Lesson Department \ SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 74 — Pre-Earth Life (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. FAITH IN CHRIST In the Christian world many theologians teach that Jesus Christ was not literally the Son of God, that he was only mortal —not divine, that his excellence was only in his teachings. This false teaching regarding Jesus seems to be increasing in a Christian world committed by the Bible to the acceptance of Jesus as the literal Son of God. (John 3:16, 18; Matt. 28:16-18.) In a comprehensive survey conducted a few years ago, it was indicated that despite the acknowledged belief in God by over ninety-six per cent of the people in the United States, there was little real vitality in their belief. Three leading theologians of the Jewish, Protestant, and Catholic faiths who analyzed the data of the survey revealed that most Americans regarded religion as "a private, painless pathway to heaven"; that about three quarters of them did not consider God as being related to their daily living; that a similar number did not associate their ideas of religion with their attitudes toward right and wrong. This survey also disclosed that students in higher education receive "adult" training in secular fields but "infant" education in religion. Class Discussion: In a world without a true knowledge of Jesus Christ and of his divinity, what does the contribution of the Doctrine and Covenants regarding this knowledge mean to you? 617 AUGUST 1966 Suggestion: Have a dialogue in which one sister (could be a convert) tells what the Christian world, in general, teaches about the Godhead, and a second sister representing the Church tells of our true knowledge of the Godhead. In the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, purposes for the restoration of the true Church and gospel are given. An important reason for the restoration of the gospel is that faith shall increase in the hearts of men. (D&C 1:21.) Fundamentally, this is to be accomplished by an awakening of the spirit within man to recognize the truth as taught in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Without the true knowledge of the Godhead, consisting of the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to come to the faith that saves mankind. (John 17:3; I Cor. 2:14.) Class Discussion: How does the true knowledge of the members of the Godhead and of other restored teachings kindle faith in you as a Latterday Saint? Elder Orson F. Whitney eloquently expresses an answer to this question, using Latter-day Saint pioneers as an example: There is no more eloquent preaching than when men and women will forsake their native land, their homes, their parents, their children, their material possessions—every earthly thing, and cross the stormy ocean, the heated plains, the frosty mountains, many of them laying down their lives, to be buried in lonely graves by the wayside; pulling hand carts, wading rivers, crossing deserts, climbing mountains, and settling in a barren waste—all for what. Was 618 it for gold and silver, houses and land, flocks and herds, and the betterment of their temporal condition? Was it for the honors of men and the applause of the world that they did these things? No, it was because they loved God and wanted to build His kingdom. They had heard the voice of the Shepherd; they were His sheep, and a stranger they would not follow. [John 10:1-5] There is no more eloquent preaching of the gospel than is found in their toils and privations, in their struggles and achievements (Conference Report, April 1915, page 101). Class Discussion: How do faith and love for Christ encourage one to be righteous? If you are a convert, relate the power that faith in Christ had on your conversion. If you were born under the covenant, relate how faith in Christ has helped you overcome temptations contrary to Church principles. (It might be the Word of Wisdom, speaking evil of others, etc.) In last month's lesson we learned several reasons why we should worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God. What further knowledge is available to you in the modern revelations to increase faith in Christ and to give meaning to the earth-life? JESUS THE FIRSTBORN Jesus Christ is proclaimed by the prophets, ancient and modern, as the literal Son of God in the spirit and, also, in the flesh. Jesus is the Firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God. And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn (D&C 93:21; see also Col. 1:15). Because he was the Firstborn, we know the Savior as our Elder Brother. The First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles, on June 30, 1916, expressed a word of caution to the members of the Church concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother. It is as follows: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind. That He is by spiritual birth Brother to the rest of us is indicated in Hebrews: "Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliations for the sins of the people." (Hebrews 2:17.) Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others, by reason (1) of His seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of His unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glorified, Father; (3) of His selection and foreordination as the one and only Redeemer and Savior of the race; and (4) of His transcendent sinlessness (Talmage, James E.: The Articles of Faith, pages 472-473). In order that none might be mistaken in his understanding of the relationship of Jesus to us mortals, The First Presidency continued: Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim (Ibid., p. 473). The important truth is given that only through Jesus Christ may one be a partaker of the glories of the eternities. The expression "through Jesus Christ" is significant in its meaning, for to understand this, is the key to eternal life. One must be begotten through him. (D&C 93:22.) To LESSON DEPARTMENT be born of Christ, is this sense of begetting which is to accept him literally as one's Savior and follow him devotedly. (Mosiah 27: 23-27.) This acceptance must be total, unqualified, as stated in the following by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.: Jesus is the Messiah, he is the Savior of the world. Through his atoning blood, his sufferings, his death and his resurrection, we may become perfect beings, and in no other way and by no other means. That is the great truth which permeates everything which God has said to his children on this earth. Without that we would be as dead bodies and dead spirits, shut off from true salvation, from exaltation, from eternal progression, the great new truth of modern revelation. We must never forget that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. There is no escape from this.. Turn, twist, philosophize, mass sophistries as we will, this truth remains (Conference Report, April 1934, page 93). YE WERE IN THE BEGINNING In Section 93, there are two verses that reveal a doctrine which has tremendous meaning for Latter-day Saints. They are: Ye were also in the beginning with the Father.... Man was also in the beginning with God (Verses 23, 29). In this message about man, an entire vista of information is revealed. The written information about man's pre-earth life is found in the Pearl of Great Price. (Abraham 3:22-23; Moses 3:5.) Upon the basis of the modern scriptures, the prophets of this dispensation have provided sufficient information about preearth life to clarify its principles and implications for the earthlife. 619 AUGUST 1966 Basic to an understanding of the plan of salvation is man's relationship to God. Concerning man, we learn that he is a dual being consisting of a physical body and a spirit entity. (D&C 88:15.) Paul the apostle taught that we are the offspring of God. (Acts 17:27-28.) Old Testament prophets referred to the relationship of man and God by saying that he is '"'the God of the spirits of all flesh'? (Numbers 16:22; see also 27:16). The writer of Hebrews speaks of the "Father of spirits'? (Hebrews 12: 9). Class Discussion: Why is the doctrine of the Fatherhood of God important to you? (1) The highest measure of salvation, exaltation or godhood, is possible because of the divine birth which man received as the Father's child—the child may attain the heights of the Father; (2) the concern for the well-being of the child by earthly parents is many times magnified with our Heavenly Father; (3) greater meaning is attached to prayer and the assurance of its being answered; (4) knowing the Father's plan and the meaning of life's experiences, give us security. MAN'S CREATION Man's origin is clarified in the following statement by the First Presidency, composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund: Adam, our great progenitor, "the first man," was, like Christ, a preexistent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, and so became a "living soul." The doctrine of the preexistence, — revealed so plainly, par- 620 ticularly in the latter-days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's origin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, basing its belief on divine revelation, ancient and modern, proclaims man to be the direct and lineal offspring of Deity ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, XIII, pp. 80-81). MAN'S SPIRIT The spirit of man is in the likeness of his earthly body. In an explanation concerning a passage of scripture, the Lord revealed to the Prophet that "the spirit of man [is] in the likeness of his person" (D&C 77:2). The fact that the body conforms to the pre-existent spirit is also made known in The Book of Mormon. It should be understood, however, that certain disfigurements of the flesh in mortality would not be inherited from the spirit. In a wonderful revelation to the brother of Jared, whose faith permitted him to behold the preexistent Jesus Christ, the Son of God said: Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ.... Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear | unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3:14-16). MAN IS ETERNAL We have learned that man was in the beginning with God. Latter-day Saint theology also teaches that man is eternal. If there was a beginning to man in spirit form, and man is eternal, without beginning or end, then, how is this possible? The spirit form of man had a beginning, but not as to conscious existence. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught, in this manner, the truth that man is eternal: I have another subject to dwell upon, which is calculated to exalt man the soul—the mind of man— the immortal spirit. Where did it come from? All learned men and doctors of divinity say that God created it in the beginning; but it is not so: the very idea lessens man in my estimation. I do not believe the doctrine; I know better. Hear it, all ye ends of the world; for God has told me so; and if you don't believe me, it will not make the truth without effect. We say. That God himself is a selfexistent being.... Man does exist upon the same principles.... The mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal (co-eternal) with God himself. I am dwelling on the immortality of the spirit of man. Is it logical to say that the intelligence of spirits is immortal, and yet that it has a beginning? The intelligence of spirits had no beginning, neither will it have an end. There never was a time when there were not spirits; for they are co-equal (co-eternal) with our Father in heaven (DHC VI:310-311). From what source did _ the Prophet receive his information on the eternal nature of man? From the same source—revelation—that Abraham received his knowledge of man's eternity. (Abraham 3:17-18.) Section 93 points out that, LESSON DEPARTMENT. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be.... For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and the spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy (verses 29, 33, 34). These passages suggest the same idea expressed by the Prophet when he used the expression "the intelligence of spirits" in the above quotation; that is, the spirit of man consists of spirit and intelligence, the uncreatable substance. Also President Joseph Fielding Smith of The First Presidency once wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit which is an entity begotten of God (The Progress of Man, page 11). FOREORDINATION Without the knowledge of the pre-earth life, Latter-day Saints would be unable to understand many phases of this life. One's place in the eternal plan is better known. Because of planning in the councils in the heavens before the foundation of the earth was laid, chance is ruled out of coming to this life. (Moses 4:1-4.) To realize that while in this life one is fulfilling a purpose, holds 621 AUGUST 1966 tremendous value in_ shaping one's life. Class Discussion: Discuss what foreordination and the knowledge of pre-existence mean to you as an individual. The life in the premortal world has conditioned us in this life. Elder James E. Talmage wrote: In the antemortal eternities we developed with individual differences and varied capacities. So far as we can peer into the past by the aid of revealed light we see that there was always gradation of intelligence, and consequently of ability, among the spirits, precisely as such differences exist amongst us mortals Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle.... The spirit lived as an organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due _ to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. This is in analogy with the recognized laws of physical operation—every force acting upon a body produces its definite effect whether it acts alone or with other and even opposing forces (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, page 232). There were among the spirit children of our Father many who had excelled in that world. One who was recognized as among his "rulers" was Abraham. (Abraham 3:23.) Others who were foreordained to positions of respon- 622 sibility in this life were: Adam (2 Nephi 2:22-26); Jeremiah (Jer. 1:4-5); John the Revelator (1 Nephi 14:18-27); and Joseph Smith (2 Nephi 3:14-15; D&C 124:1). Our Father's knowledge about these servants and all of his children was such that he could "'see the end of their earthly career even from the first" (The Articles of Faith, page 191). Elder James E. Talmage also stated that, "Everyone of us was known by name and character to the Father, who is 'the God of the spirits of all flesh' (Numbers 16:22; 27:16), in our antemortal or primeval childhood; and from among the hosts of his unembodied children God chose for special service on earth such as were best suited to the accomplishment of His purposes" (The Vitality of Mormonism, page 229). The foreknowledge of God does not hold that people are designated for glory or condemnation or demerit. Elder Talmage wrote that "God's knowledge of spiritual and of human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet that knowledge is not of compelling force upon the creature" (The Articles of Faith, page 191). We are thus able to see that the Lord is directing the affairs of men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before the world was (DHC, VI:364). The mission of Columbus was foreknown. (I Nephi 13:12.) The Lord also raised up men to write the Constitution of the United States. (D&C 101: 79-80.) It will be remembered that unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob (Israel) the promise was given that their posterity would have special privileges in holding the Priesthood and being custodians of the gospel through the ages. These values and others afford Latter-day Saints considerable advantage in understanding not only their own place in this life but also the Lord's purposes for all men. The doctrine of premortality sheds a flood of light upon many questions which confront us in life. SUMMARY We have learned that in a "Christian" world that has generally departed from faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, modern revelation has given Latter-day Saints the following concepts: (1) Christ is the literal Son of LESSON DEPARTMENT God in the spirit and in the flesh; (2) Christ was the Firstborn of all the spirit sons of God; (3) all men lived before birth into this life; (4) man is eternal as to his nature because of the uncreatable intelligence which is a part of his spirit entity. Many benefits are received by man in this life by knowing of this relationship to God. The knowledge of this relationship provides the Latter-day Saint with the motivation to become exalted in the celestial kingdom. To attain this blessing demands full obedience. And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:27-28). FOR CONSIDERATION Consider thoughtfully your conviction that one can do whatever one is called to do in the Church, if one has sufficient faith in the Lord. Relate this to the principle of foreordination. BEE MYRTLE Ethel Jacobson Like foam Cresting this grassy sea, Are whitecaps of bee myrtle. Petal spray trembles And tumbles against undulant green Ruffied by wind That has a thousand miles to go To reach that other sea, The restless Gulf, To mingle with its briny tang The memory of bee myrtle, Fragrant On a sun-washed inland plain. 623 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 74 — "Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; Yea, Rejoice Evermore, and in Everything Give Thanks" (D&C 98:1). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To be joyful and cultivate gratitude and courage. @ In August 1833 the threat of persecution hung over the saints like a summer thundercloud. The air was full of foreboding. Yet in spite of the disaster that autumn would bring, the Lord called on the saints to rejoice and give thanks. Repeatedly during that year of heavy trial and, often, of death, the Lord called the saints his friends and said to them, "Be comforted." He revealed to them that he had heard their prayers and that if they would endure to the end, all would be well with them. It must have been an amazing experience to them to be called "friends" by the Lord whom they worshipped. To be a friend implies a confidence, a companionship, a respect, and an intimacy that one does not ordinarily associate with one's relationship to Deity. "TI will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me'"' (D&C 93:45). In the face of trouble, one can indeed be comforted and courageous if one thinks of the Lord not only as the 624 Master of the universe but as one's personal friend, sustaining and loving. While at supper on that fateful night before his crucifixion, Jesus said to another band of saints that was to know persecution, "Let not your heart be troubled.... Peace I leave with you" (John 14:1 and 27). The year that the Church was organized through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery testified of their knowledge, "'that there is a God in heaven" (D&C 20:17). The saints, then as now, were to rejoice. They were to look beyond the troubled present toward a glorious fulfillment. God has a great plan for man on this earth. Although man knows evil and evil befalls him, yet, through it all, one has the assurance of God's love and compassion as stated in the scripture message: "Fear not, let your hearts be comforted; yea, rejoice evermore, and in everything give thanks." So, in the midst of peril, of trouble, of grief, or death, one should give thanks for life, for the earth, for man's eternal soul, and for God's great plan. We should be comforted by the assurance that God hears our LESSON DEPARTMENT prayers. We should rejoice and be thankful and take courage in the knowledge that we may have an inheritance with our Lord and that he is our friend. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show INTRODUCTION Hospitality, be it ever so simple, is one of the creative joys of life, and Aeschylus, ''Father of Greek Tragedy," gave us a true reason for entertaining when he said, '"'Pleasantest of all ties is the tie of host and guest." Customs in hospitality vary in different countries. Some adaptation of this discussion to suit different customs or foods may be necessary. TRUE HOSPITALITY Our pioneer grandmothers and great-grandmothers wore an aura of true hospitality with distinction. Though food preparation was laborious, the savory stew, the plump wheaty loaves, the hoarded dessert (so called because the table was "deserted" of everything else) were shared often. They found entertaining exciting and adventurous and satisfying, the role of food in entertaining. And a chance to be together. To share the heart of the home with no thought of "keeping up with the Joneses" was their pattern. How often you have heard: "My house is too small for entertaining; I'll ask the bishopric over for homemade ice cream when we can afford to redecorate," or '"'I'd like to let Stephen invite his teenage friends to our house, but I don't have the energy for preparing all that food."' Let your heart speak! Sharing with others should be part of your family's training. Give your house a shiny, clean face and forget that which you cannot do. Ten years from now those bidden to your home will not remember the faded wallpaper, but. They will remember with unforgettable delight the good food and the fun they had in a relaxed atmosphere. Hospitality does not mean spending next week's food budget in 625 AUGUST 1966 one fell swoop, upsetting the household unduly, or completely exhausting the homemaker. The goal of the hostess is to have each guest enjoy the warmth of companionship, the shared interests, and the congeniality of refreshment. TO DISCUSS 1. What kinds of homey hospitality might families who are living in small apartments extend to their friends? Stipulate the occasion, the service, and the food to be served. (One young couple seats their friends on huge cushions on the floor and on homemade hassocks.) 2. What kinds of enjoyable entertainment might you plan for teenagers in your home? State ways in which you might simplify the food and the serving of it (be sure it is appealing to young people and that there is enough). HOSPITALITY HINTS 1. Do not invite guests to your home merely to repay an obligation. Someone has said, "Your motive will show." Duty is never compatible with true hospitality. 2. Food need not be expensive to be delicious. On cold winter nights one family serves a hearty corn chowder, ladled from a cherished old bowl, a crisp tossed salad, crusty homemade bread sticks, and for dessert they pass big bowls of caramel corn and fruit. One of their guests exclaimed, "It is far more interesting than filet mignon." 3. Do let guests feel that they are worth extra effort and consideration, but try to let them feel also that it was accomplished easily. 4. Do stock a little corner for entertaining on your pantry shelf, buying items a few at a time when the food budget is not strained. 5. Do prepare food sometimes when you are lonely or depressed. It will not only lift your spirits, but it is said that food prepared at these times is sure to have those "tastetingling ingredients" of true hospitality. 626 6. Do not apologize for the food, the service, or your home. Chances are that the things which bother you pass unnoticed by your guests. TO DISCUSS Case study—Jean and John are entertaining John's manager and his wife at dinner. The guests have arrived and the meal is ready to be served. While Jean answers a call from her two young children, who are supposed to be asleep, her featherlight rolls, her pride and joy, have become too brown—edible and not burned, but certainly not up to her usual standard. Which of the following should Jean do? (Justify your answer.) A. Quickly make muffins or baking powder biscuits. B. Send John to the little store a few blocks away for brown and serve rolls. C. Serve the overly-brown rolls; say nothing. D. Serve the rolls; casually mention that they are over-baked. MENU REMINDERS 1. Menus are very personal and the right menu depends upon many factors; create your own' individual food patterns, suited to your needs and the occasion, provide flavor zest and eye appeal without the menu's being bizarre. 2. Do you have a food specialty, one dish which you prepare easily and can depend upon every time? One hostess makes an excellent chicken casserole; another prepares delightful lasagne; another bakes salmon to a gourmet perfection. Capitalize on that which you do best. Build your menu around it. You don't have a specialty? Then find one; it will be fun and rewarding. 3. Do not experiment with a new dish for your party. Some pitfalls may lurk in that foolproof recipe that looks so glamorous in the picture. 4. Do not undertake too elaborate menus or foods requiring much lastminute attention. A made-the-day-before dessert and left resposing in the refrigerator may be far more desirable to serve than a baked Alaska. 5. Do-ahead foods are an undiluted joy, and ease the work of entertaining —the succulent meat dish ready to be popped into the oven, the quivery fruit mold waiting to be released on its enhancing bed of greens, the icebox rolls, pleading to be shaped by deft fingers. Especially if you do everything yourself, plan a number of quick-fix and day-before foods. 6. Plan your menu with the things you have tc do with in mind. SUMMARY There are no hard and fast rules for extending homey hospitality—no definite party foods. If the hostess sighs with relief as the last guest departs, you can ke quite certain that her guest is doing the same thing. The relaxed hostess who loves people, plans well, executes her plans, and does not undertake too much, will remain the 'hostess with the mostest." She will find the tie that binds host and guest stimuLESSON DEPARTMENT lating and fun and a made-formemory time. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. The little touches and garnishes can transform your old favorites into conversation pieces. Try to create or use others' ideas for garnishing food, excluding maraschino cherries and parsley. One member of the class or a committee might display some simple garnishes they have made. Something as simple as an autumn leaf on a plate with a cup of soup is attractive. Garden flowers or leaves also add a piquant touch. 2. Study your own cookbooks and recipes. Begin a menu file for different occasions and seasons. Create menus with an eye to your budget, advance preparation, ease of preparation, and fine points of menu making. Market orders and even recipes may be attached. SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series) — The Sensitive Line Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons — 1966: Lesson 25) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband and in being sensitive to other human relationships. FOLLOW-UP—LESSON 6 In rereading the conference addresses of President Hugh B. Brown and the General Relief Society Presidency, what spiritual truths did you discover anew and apply in your daily living? Discuss briefly. Cite any of the teaching methods Jesus used that you found effective in teaching in the home. INTRODUCTION An important goal of the Relief Society lessons entitled '"Teaching the Gospel in the Home" is the improvement of family relationships. Many of these lessons bring to our attention home-problem situations. Though these are often small, they may be irritating, and build barriers and cause misunderstandings. The lessons 627 AUGUST 1966 offer suggestions and ideas which may diminish, remove, or, even, prevent such undesirable situations. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lessons likewise aim to better family _ relationships. Special emphasis, in some areas of these lessons, is placed upon the husband-wife — relationship. The husband has been offered suggestions for helping him understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife. Assignments have been made to implement these suggestions, such as being more helpful in the home, restraining criticism and showing affection and. Appreciation for his wife's efforts to make their home a happy place in which to live.. It is the objective of this lesson to remind the wife that she shares equal responsibility in making their marriage union a satisfying and rewarding one. The lesson will also suggest some ways and occasions where her feminine sensitivity may lead to a gracious acceptance of his increased consideration, and motivate her to reciprocate with increased consideration for his particular problems and emotional needs. WHAT DOTH IT PROFIT? For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift. The foregoing quotation is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, 88:33. When in context, it refers to the glories of eternity which are gifts from our Heavenly Father to those who, by their 628 righteous living, are willing to receive these blessings. The underlying truth of this scripture is universal in its application. It applies not only to the spiritual blessings which our Heavenly Father offers us, but may apply to small and mundane details of everyday-living. Note how applicable it is to a city, as indicated in the words of the Savior, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem,... How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Matt. 23:37). This basic principle seems particularly applicable to this lesson, for it is of no profit to a woman to receive a gift from a child, husband, or friend, if she receive not that gift. To make us aware of this fact and to stimulate us to make constructive use of an increased sensitivity, is the goal of this lesson. THE UNEXPECTED GIFT Discuss the following contrasting reactions to unexpected gifts, small though they be: Woman A: Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday to surprise ~me, but I don't like where he put some things and I told him so. Woman B: Without any suggestion from me, Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday. It looks neat as a pin. While some things aren't in the most convenient places for me, he beamed all over when I _ told him what a wonderful surprise it was. Woman No. 1: John doesn't often buy gifts for people, but recently he purchased something for me as a surprise. It was a very pretty red scarf. I think blue is a better color for me, but I'll enjoy wearing it because of the love that prompted his thoughtfulness. Woman No. 2: John rarely buys a gift for me, but recently he saw a very pretty red scarf in the store and purchased it for a surprise. I seldom wear red, so I said, "For goodness sakes, John, while you were at it, why didn't you get a blue one instead?" ITIl probably never wear this red one. Discuss the probable reactions of Fred and John. FRIEND TO FRIEND Neighbor No. 1: I'm driving to the grocery store this morning, is there anything you'd like me to purchase for you and save you making the trip? Neighbor No. 2: No, I don't think so. I need a few things but I wouldn't like to bother you. Might Neighbor No. 2 have a valid (although unexpressed) reason for not wishing her neighbor to make a purchase for her? If, however, her reason for declining her neighbor's sincere offer is merely a false pride in being independent, is she not denying herself a relationship enrichment which a proffered service might have brought her? Discuss briefly. Suggest and discuss other examples. Today we hear much about empathy — that ability to put oneself into the position of another, to know his feelings and point of view. Empathy is thus the result of a developed sensitivity. If we are sensitive to the point of view of another person, we will be sensitive to his effort to please us, and we should show gratitude for that effort. When this sensitivity is reciprocal, the relationship is a more satisfying and rewarding one. Class Activity 1. Comment on the rewards which come to married children who assist their parents even in such small services as a. Frequent telephone calls or letters to see that the parents are all right. LESSON DEPARTMENT b. Driving the car on a stormy day for mother or elderly relative. Name other situations. 2. Comment on the efforts of parents to assist their married children in— a. Emergencies in housing, etc., b. Times of illness, c. Caring for grandchildren. Name other situations. SUNDAY EPISODE The following Sunday morning episode appears in Lesson 25 of the Melchizedek Priesthood lesson manual for 1965. It is reprinted here in essence. Charles K. Is a counselor in the elders' quorum presidency. He is a full tithe payer, keeps the standards of the Church, is active in all his assignments, and is also quite a successful business man. Linda is the mother of several small children. She is active in both Primary and Relief Society. She has some difficulty in budgeting her time and welcomes constructive suggestions. Coming home from Priesthood meeting one Sunday, Charles found that his wife and children were still not ready for Sunday School. Walking into the house, he was greeted by his two youngest children still in their underclothes. "Hi, Daddy," they said. "Aren't you kids ready yet?" Then looking for his wife, he found her combing their oldest daughter's hair. ''What's the deal —aren't you ready yet?" "No, I'm not ready yet," replied his wife. "You wouldn't be ready either if you'd had my problems this morning."' "It seems to me that your whole problem is -that you're never organized," said Charles. 629 AUGUST 1966 "'We're always late for Church. It never fails!" "Not always, Charles, and if you'd come home and help instead of just standing there, we might be able to make it on time," retorted Linda. "If I ran my business the way you run this home, we'd have been broke long ago." Linda's eyes were now filled with anger. "If I ran the home like your business is run—" She couldn't finish as the tears came. Exasperated, she finally blurted out, "I've had it! I've just had it. All you have done lately is complain about things you don't see done or lecture on things you think should be important to me. You never notice the nice things I do. Do you ever stop to consider the kind of morning I've had? No —you don't notice how clean the children are! — Especially after spilling shoe dye all over themselves. Do you ever notice when we are on time to Church? No." At that she was cut off by Charles: "All right, all right, Linda. I'm sorry. You've made your point now. You don't need to nag."' "When you complain you think it's constructive criticism," she said. "When I complain you call it nagging." Charles didn't say any more as he hustled the children out to the car. Finally, Linda joined her husband and family. As_ they walked in the Church together, they were greeted by the Sunday School superintendent. "Made it," said Charles. "Tf all the families in the Church were like yours, Charlie, we wouldn't have any worries," the superintendent replied. If 630 only he knew, Linda thought as she sat down, if he only knew. CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION A It is evident that both Charles and Linda are responsible for this increasingly unpleasant Sunday morning episode. Aside from the fact that there is value in Linda's knowing how Charles feels about being prompt for Church functions, and about her need for improving her organization practices, let us consider the episode from the viewpoint of personal reactions. 1. Could Linda have reduced the tension by responding in a different manner, even though Charles made essentially the same statements? How? 2. How could the shoe dying incident have been avoided? 3. Even if the shoes had been polished the night before, would that have guaranteed a peaceful and happy atmosphere? 4. Would a sense of humor have been materially helpful? If so, how? When? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION B Suppose Charles, through discussion in his quorum meetings, had decided that he would be more considerate in his attitude, courteous in his speech, and more helpful to Linda. Although he feels strongly about being at Church on time, he does not want her to be humiliated, especially before the children. He wants her to feel secure in her role as wife and mother, and to know that he appreciates her. When he returns from Priesthood meeting on a Sunday morning to take the family to Sunday School, he finds that they are not ready. (The situation is thus the same as given in Situation A—the youngest children are still in their underclothes. Linda also reacts essentially as she did in Situation A. Only the response of Charles is different.) Charles is about to make a critical remark about being late, which Linda really anticipates, but he restrains himself. Instead, he says, "I see you're not ready yet, honey, and we haven't much time. Is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles stands silently for a moment and then asks again, "Is there anything I can do to help?" Linda, being unhappy that interruptions have thwarted her plans to be ready on time, but apparently insensitive to Charles' unexpected offer to help, says, "No, I'm not ready yet, and if you'd had my problems this morning you wouldn't be ready either. I know what you are thinking and that you'd like to say— we are never on time, but don't say it, don't. I'll get ready as fast as I can." His offer to help ignored, rather than graciously received, Charles, in disappointment, says, "Well, all right, but don't dally. We're almost late now." What doth it profit a man [woman] if a gift is bestowed upon him and he receive not the gift? QUESTION Will Charles be as likely to proffer his help should a similar incident take place on a following Sunday? What might he do? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION C Linda, having been an interested participant in the discussions in Relief Society as to how to better family relationships, has been made aware that all members of a relationship share in the responsibility to make that relationship rewarding. She has come to realize the value of organizing her time wisely and of planning ahead. Consequently, the children's shoes have been polished on Saturday night. The older children have been given specific assignments, such as dressing the younger children early. All family members aim to be ready when Daddy gets home from Priesthood meeting. All has gone smothly until the unexpected happens. The twins, LESSON DEPARTMENT having decided to feed the kitten, overturn a dish of grape jelly in their attempt to get the bottle of milk from the refrigerator, spilling both on their Sunday clothes. Linda has rushed to the kitchen disaster just as Charles enters the house. "Everybody ready?" he calls. No answer. Quickly he surveys the crying scene. Linda, disciplining her emotions, says, ""We thought we were, dear. We really tried, didn't we, children?" She manages some light laughter, and Charles, too, cannot resist the humor of the situation. Their laughter relieves the tension, as Linda adds, '"The unexpected is sure to happen." "Well, is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles asks. "There certainly is something you can do. You are the 'stitch in time that saves nine,'" Linda replies gratefully. "If you will sponge out George's hair and take off his suit, Nancy will get him another one. I think I can quickly spot Margie's dress so it won't need to be changed." Within a few minutes all are in the car and Charles, surveying his happy family, says "You did a fine job, children, helping mother. I think we'll make it on time in spite of the milk and the jelly." And Linda, relieved, says "Thanks for your attitude and your help, Charles, we might not have made it otherwise. You're a dear." * * * * * This is cooperation, resulting from the correlation lessons being taught the husband in Priesthood meetings and the wife in Relief Society. SUMMARY In order to maintain a satisfying relationship, both husband and wife need to learn to communicate understandingly _ together. The woman should strive to develop an awareness of her husband's needs and point of 631 AUGUST 1966 view. She should be sensitive to and grateful for his efforts to improve their relationship and to meet her needs and problems. While the major episode (case study) discussed in this lesson involves a home where there are small children, the basic principle is equally applicable in homes of middle years where the children are married or where there are no children. This is not a lesson for young mothers only. It is for all Relief Society women. DISCUSSION 1. Questions that appear in the lesson. 2. Make full use of discussion: possibilities calling for additional examples applicable to 'Friend to Friend" relationship, and the unexpected gift. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Evaluate your own reaction to some difficult situation in the home to see if a more sensitive approach to the other person's point of view and needs might improve the situation. 2. Profit by this evaluation. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Lesson 2 — Refinement Creates Beauty 'Refinement creates beauty everywhere." William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: Refinement gives to a woman the desire for creating beauty in WOMAN'S GOAL OF CULTURAL REFINEMENT Cultural refinement should be one of the goals for all Latter-day Saints, as individuals and as members of a family. To achieve this refinement a woman will conscientiously try to be wellgroomed, creative, genteel. She will be sensitive to the individual temperaments of other people so that she does not offend. She will cultivate a pleasing personality and good taste in all that she says and does, as well as in the clothes that she wears. Finally, 632 her marriage and family relationships. She will be aware of the loveliness of beauty and will strive to grace herself and also her home with beauty, not just physical beauty, but also beauty in language, in action, and, above all, in character. From the beginning the Church has encouraged participation in the creative arts—the reading of good books, the singing and playing of lovely music, the participation in artistic drama, the enjoyment of graceful dancing, etc. We need great literature, great music, great painting within the Church, and those women who desire to be creative should do everything possible to allow time for the expression of their creative interests. It is important, however, to remember that highquality thinking and characterbuilding are also beautifully creative. As President McKay has often reminded us, the greatest creative role available to women is motherhood. In all of these creative activities, and including motherhood, good taste and refinement need to be emphasized —the cultivation of gentleness and mature mellowness. LITERARY SELECTIONS The lesson for this month centers attention on two poems, Elizabeth Barrett Browning's "Sonnets from the Portuguese"' and John Keats's "The Eve of St. Agnes," and two short stories, Katherine Mansfield's ''Marriage & La Mode" and Willa Cather's "The Sculptor's Funeral''—all of which are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Two of Volume II of Out of the Best Books. Class leaders and Relief Society sisters who have access to the text should study the selections there because space permits only very brief treatment in this Magazine lesson. Also, class leaders should realize that the selections are too long for all four to be covered in one lesson. Therefore, each leader should choose those selections she feels will be most valuable for her group. Many leaders will undoubtedly decide that Mrs. Browning's poem and the Mansfield story combine to make an excellent lesson in_ contrast; others will probably prefer to concentrate on the Keats poem or on the Cather story. LESSON DEPARTMENT (Note to class leaders: The two short stories are still under copyright and should not be re-copied without special permission from the original publishers. The two poems, however, are out of copyright and may be recopied without special permission.) Sonnets From the Portuguese: The first selection and the one to which we are giving principal emphasis in this lesson, is Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets from the Portuguese. We have chosen this selection for emphasis because it reflects a love and marriage that are beautiful in their tenderness, genteel purity, and spirituality. To understand the sonnets, we need to know something about Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. In real life, as in their poems and letters to each other, theirs was a truly beautiful courtship and marriage in spite of the fact that she was six years older than he. (She was forty years old, he thirty-four when they married.) They were deeply and permanently devoted to each other, and their marriage was rooted in all the enduring bonds of emotional, social, physical, intellectual, and spiritual harmony that combine to make an ideal companionship. In fact, their romance is more beautiful than most fictional love stories. In her own lifetime Elizabeth Barrett (1806-1861) was generally regarded as England's greatest poetess and one of the world's truly great poets. Now, a hundred years after her death, most of her poetry is forgotten. But she is still remembered as the wife of the great Robert Browning, and her letters and poems to him are still lovely in their devotion, especially the forty-four poems 633 AUGUST 1966 in Sonnets From the Portuguese. We also need to know a little about the childhood and family life of the young Elizabeth. As a result of a spine injury, weakened lungs, and various other ailments, from her fifteenth year onward she was in delicate health and in-- creasingly withdrew from _ the world, spending most of her hours reading and writing in_ her darkened room, a pale, fragile, and famous semi-invalid poet. Her father was wealthy and domineering, which encouraged this most sensitive of his daughters to lead a life of pampered seclusion. Then, because he had read and admired her poetry, the robust exuberant Robert Browning came into her life. For several months before they met they exchanged admiring letters. Finally they met. From that day Browning's visits were regular, at first weekly, then semi-weekly. Gradually his attentive devotion and his energetic masculinity transformed her life. Even her health improved so that she could lead a more normal existence. Within a year they acknowledged their love; within two years they were married. Browning was, in fact, in love from the beginning; but Elizabeth was slow to hope that romance could enter her middle-aged life and especially reluctant to burden her poetlover with the care of a semiinvalid. Browning and love won, however, and fifteen years of idyllic marriage followed, spent mostly in Italy, until her death in 1861. "Robert and I are deep in the fourth month of wedlock; there has not been a shadow between us," she wrote to one of her close friends, and similar letters 634 were written to other friends indicating the growth of their love during all the years that remained. She even recovered her health sufficiently to bear two sons. Although her early life is reflected in the sonnets, and her years of happy marriage are anticipated, all forty-four of the sonnets were actually written in the secrecy of her bedroom, during the sixteen months of courtship prior to their marriage on 12 September 1846. They are extremely personal poems, intended at the time for no one to see, not even Browning. It wasn't until three years after their marriage that anyone knew she had written the sonnets. Then one day she timidly gave them to Browning, telling him she had written them in secret before their marriage, and suggesting that he might destroy them if he found them unworthy. Instead, with her hesitant consent, he published them as a record to the world of their love, thinly disguising their personal nature under the deliberately misleading title Sonnets From the Portuguese. Written as they were in secret, the sonnets record Elizabeth's varying moods and feelings as she gradually moves through courtship towards marriage, at times terribly afraid and apprehensive, at other times feeling that she is completely unworthy of Browning's love, and, at still other times, caught up in the ecstasy and rapture and glory of love that is fully given and fully returned. As poetry the sonnets have weaknesses. Some of them, especially the early ones, are marred with tinges of sentimentality and self-pity, and others are somewhat "arty" and artificially overrhetorical in their wording. Also, at times there is in them an intimate piety that makes a modern reader somewhat embarrassed and ill at ease. — But, in spite of these weaknesses, throughout the poems one senses a love and faith that are genuine, spiritual, enduring, and, above all, refined. They will undoubtedly seem rather oldfashioned both in their wording and in their sentiment; but they have much to say about the nature of wholesome, refined, faithfilled love that modern readers should hear. Especially is this true of the best of them—Sonnets 1, 3, 14, 22, 25, and 35. In this mid-twentieth-century world of broken marriages, earthly realism, and cynical despair surrounding us on all sides, we can profit from reviewing a love story as spiritual and idealized as this one reflected in Mrs. Browning's sonnets. As samples of these sonnets we here print as many as space allows: 14 If thou must love me, let it be for naught Except for love's sake only. Do not say "I love her for her smile—her look— her way. Of speaking gently—for a trick of thought That falls in well with mine, and certes brought A sense of pleasant ease on such a day" — For these things in themselves, Beloved, may Be changed, or change for thee—and love, so wrought, May be unwrought so. Neither love me for LESSON DEPARTMENT Thine own dear pity's wiping my cheeks dry— A creature might forget to weep, who bore Thy comfort long, and lose thy love thereby! But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayst love on, through love's eternity. 22 When our two souls stand up erect and strong, Face to face, silent, drawing nigh and nigher, ay the lengthening wings break into ire At either curved point—what bitter wrong Can the earth do to us, that we should not long Be here contented? Think. In mounting higher, The angels would press on us and aspire To drop some golden orb of perfect song Into our deep, dear silence. Let us stay Rather on earth; Beloved—where the unfit Contrarious moods of men recoil away And isolate pure spirits, and permit A place to stand and love in for a day, With darkness and the death-hour rounding it. This sonnet (No. 22) is perhaps the strongest poetically of the entire 44. In the vigor of its imagery and thought it stands above all the others as an expression of the enduring power of their love, which is both earthly and heavenly. 43 How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight For the ends of Being and ideal Grace. I love thee to the level of everyday's 635 AUGUST 1966 Most quiet need, by sun and candlelight. I love thee freely, as men strive for Right; I love thee purely, as they turn from Praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints—I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. To round out the beautiful, refined love story in the life and poetry of the Brownings, we need to be aware that Robert Browning loved his wife as deeply and permanently as she loved him. He was more reluctant to express his personal feelings in poetry, however. Even so, there are a few little poems and pieces of poems which, scattered throughout his long career, let us inside his heart to witness the deep, beautiful, enduring love he felt for his wife, both before their marriage, during the fifteen years of marriage, and for long years after her death—poems such as "A Woman's Last Word," "My Star," "By the Fireside," "O Lyric Love," and several others. Browning believed with unwavering confidence not only that life continues beyond death but also that married couples may reunite in love after death, to find a fulfillment more glorious than any earthly relationship. His most robust expression of this confidence appears at the end of "Prospice." In this poem, written shortly after Mrs. Browning's death, he vigorously looks beyond death to an eternal companionship with his wife, assert- 636 ing "O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, and with God be the rest!"" Because "Prospice" was printed and discussed in Volume I (pp. 459-460), it will not be repeated here, but readers are invited to review the earlier discussion because the poem is surely a clear, beautiful, and powerful expression of the eternal union lovers may have in marriage. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion: 1. In what specific ways do these sonnets reflect refinement in love and language? 2. How does a study of these sonnets help to show that love at its best is rooted in religious faith? Notes on Other Selections: The three remaining selections for this lesson are as important as Mrs. Browning's poem and will be preferred by some leaders, but space does not permit more than a brief mention of them here. Class leaders who wish to teach these selections will need to study them in the text, where they are printed in full, with detailed comments and questions for discussion. In contrast to the refined love of Sonnets From the Portuguese, Mansfield's 'Marriage a La Mode" presents a love and marriage that are unwholesome and frivolously pleasure-filled, heading for disaster. This _ selection should be used only as a contrasting story to the Browning sonnets. Keats's, "The Eve of St. Agnes," is one of the most beautiful poems ever written. In its refinement and exquisite loveliness of language we have pure artistry, and in its idyllic narrative we have one of the tenderest, most beautiful love stories ever told. The poem is culturally rich from beginning to end, not only in its musical language but also in its vivid descriptions, like the paintings of a great artist. A beautiful hour could be spent with this poem alone. The final selection is another short story, "The Sculptor's Funeral" by Willa Cather. Here we see the conflict between those who appreciate artistic culture and those who are insensitive to it as well as to refined understanding in human relations. All of the cultural arts are intimately related to the extent that sensitivity in one usually accompanies The New Magna-Vu Glass! B4.95 plus 32 cents postage. Y%&A little marvel for reading. Crocheting, and knitting... %& Hangs around your neck and sits on your chest comfortably. %& Leaves the hands free for working. %& Comes in a viny!] case. % Magnifies a large area beautifully... Ideal for fine work and for looking at detail. Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Enclosed is $5.27 in money order, account, please charge. Mee. Wk ee ee ee Address SS ee — SZ Deseret Boo LESSON DEPARTMENT sensitivity in all. Sensitivity in art usually encourages sensitivity in spiritual values as well as in human relationships. Again, a rewarding hour can be _ spent studying this story for those groups who feel it will be especially valuable and appropriate for their needs. MUSIC ENRICHMENT In connection with the literature in this lesson, designated music from the recording should be heard to give emphasis to the refinement which a woman receives from an awareness and appreciation of music. —————_ SS COMPANY 4 EAST SO. TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY en a LL check _.. L have an 637 SACRED MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES (SSA) __ ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen - -.25 _ COME, COME, YE SAINTS —Madsen __ 22-.--eoeeeeeeee 25 _ GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.30 2 HEAVENS ARE TELLING SMG 1 We--22---- oe ennonne 25.. LORD BLESS AND KEEP THEE—Madsen_ 00--.--.25 nesa=repNO MAN IS AN ISLAND Ringwald 0 2..-.0000-- 25 aPRAYERFUL HOUR—Chopin...25 ==OH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen.20 aONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Simeone -.30 | I | | |! I | l | | I I l l | l | I | I l l l 1 1 1 | aTHIS DAY IS MINE—Ware.20 | [] Money Enclosed | | | | | | I | | I | | | | | | | | I | | | I l | | Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC CO. | 1 { 1! T ' i! 145 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 | | Please send the music indicated above:! [] On Approval [] Charge {-] Money Enclosed! \ i! T { I ' \ | '; 1 |! T ' oe = Qo. A. =. C a a The totally new "fa L435 J 145 South State PARK FREE in the spacious lot just east of our new I store or in any of the downtown lots. [ WE VALIDATE AT CONFERENCE Sarah Heron Paisley, Scotland The Cannon girls look wonderful, White blouse and black, black hair. Their faces are so radiant! No beauty can compare. Their eyes so dark, but full of light, A picture to behold, As their lips, they part in song, Make sounds like tinkling gold. All our girls are beautiful— Each one without compare; Heather Macrae with auburn hair, Smiling face with radiant glow; Two rows of snow white blouses! Adorned our girls so pure! It makes one think of heaven With light of a bright azure. A Few Reservations Available on PAGEANT TOURS Bus: July 16—18—23 Air: July 19 — Start $245.00 SEE UTAH CANYON LAND TOURS (Labor Day Holiday) MEXICO — $99.00 ALASKA — $280.00 HAWAII — From $399.00 Depart July 12 — Aug. 12 — Sept. 3 Oct. 15 — Nov. 18 ORIENT HOLIDAY Summer and Fall — WEST INDIES Fall and Winter — CARIBBEAN AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS Europe Auto—Europe COLORAMA — NEW ENGLAND 35 Days DON'T FORGET ROSE PARADE TOUR! Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 SEE THE Holyl — — WITH Cleon Skousen ** OCT. 11 DEPARTURE Se ee Nee et eee MURDOCK TRAVEL JNC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR NAME MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL Gus STATE BLACK HILLS ee PASSION PLAY TOUR sin i al August 21 DURABLE SOUTHERN PARKS A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inLabor Day Tour mea tal Sel dserely heii neces te September 3 Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. NEW ENGLANDin Mall or pring ite editions pou. Wish Pound to CANADIAN FALL TOUR e Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 H AW All AN Yearly Index Included. Advance payment must accompany all orders. ALOHA TOUR Please include postage according to table listed October 15 below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah ROSE PARADE TOURS Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone6 90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 December 27 Zone 4 65 Zone8 1.20 Zone 5 80 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue =~ DESERET J PEews PRESS Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 " I 639 Mhday Congratulations 100 Mrs. Annie Erickson Benson Logan, Utah Mrs.. Needa Johnson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle Glendale, California 99 Mrs. Sarah Francis Hendon Wd Warren, Arkansas 98 Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah Of Mrs. Chelnecha Damron Barron 3 inkom,! Tdaho 9 Mrs. Anne Kerstena Nielson Busk Monroe, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Rigby Jacobs Williams | Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ~Lauretta Mattison Borup Layton, Utah Mrs. Mary Francis Robinson Kirtland, New Mexico 640 93 Mrs. Louie Burt Evans Y Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Ammar Elizabeth Pi Burley, Idaho )Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Montebello, California 9] Mrs. Mary Ann Mitchell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam St. George, Utah Mrs. Carola J. Wurzbach Fullerton, California TI Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Mountain View, Wyoming Mrs. Lorena Mahoney Oates Paradise, California Mrs. Irene Smith Merrill Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Spring Gessel Logan, Utah Mrs. Harriet E. Butler Pulsipher Eagar, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Kap Hansen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Daisy Burt Reeder Brigham City, Utah INSPIRING REACING TAKE HEED TO YOURSELVES $4.95 Gospel Discourses of PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Deseret Book is proud to present this significant new volume as part of the 90th birthday anniversary celebration of President Smith. A choice compilation of sermons and writings, this book includes the warning voice that President Smith has raised to members of the Church during his 56 years as a General Authority. PLEASE TELL ME $2.95 By Elizabeth and Stanley Schoenfeld Contrary to the old statement, today's children seem to be heard as much as they are seen, and they ask a lot of questions. Here is a book by parents, written for parents and teachers alike, to help answer many of the Gospel questions which children constantly ask. Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, Or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me [] TAKE HEED TO YOURSELVES [] PLEASE TELL ME I enclose a check/money order to cover cost of purchases. Total cost to include 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store, Or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange Store. Or, I have an account — please charge me. =F == Os Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA = = RS. AUG. 66 Pn a a ww we ow ww ww ew en oe en en nn ee en nnn cere ert mn rene mane sewer ne etme meee tee e ssn war aceresenae Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Birthdays are fun and this is our 75th! Yes, U and I Sugar built its first factory in Lehi, Utah, in 1891 — 75 years ago. And to help celebrate our anniversary, we had Cynthia Scott, our U and I home economist, create a U and I Sugar 75th BIRTHDAY CAKE especially for you. Here's the recipe: Uand I 75th Birthday Cake 4 egg yolks Ya cup buttermilk 242 cups flour, sifted 1 teaspoon vanilla Y% teaspoon salt 4 egg whites, beaten until stiff % cup buttermilk %4 cup sliced almonds 2 cups granulated 1 pkg. German sweet chocolate = [ U AND | SUGAR % cup boiling water 1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda Cream sugar and butter until light and fluffy, add egg yolks one at a time and beat well after the addition of each. Add flour and salt alternately with % cup buttermilk. Melt chocolate in boiling water, dissolve soda in % cup buttermilk and mix these two until smooth. Add PURE vanilla. Fold into creamed mixture. Fold in beaten egg Fi whites. Pour into three 9" layer cake pans or a set of NE GRANULATED tiered cake pans, greased and floured on bottom. Sprinkle the tops of two layers with sliced almonds. Bake ina moderate oven (350 degrees) 25 to 30 minutes. Cool. Use your favorite frosting and filling.
