Katherine F. Larsen... Low hills, lovely with green, fresh green, and ever-recurring green, Merging into hills gentled under soft blue haze, Dreaming ancient dreams, as in an old country How you rise and lead the jaded eye, soothing it, Out of the straight hot teeming streets and highways Hard and fast over the abiding countryside. And there, there in your soft hills folded, the old Strong trees preside, and hover protectingly over The nestling houses, the small homes, the rooftrees Harboring hearts and hopes as ever. Hearts and hopes—old, gentle words, forgotten, or Almost forgotten, as the byways that still wind upward Into the softened contours of the old hills.... Who now has time to wander, to wonder, to reach Downward to roots, back to the times and a time when Hills, homes, hearts, hopes were a balm And love a word one could rest upon? The Cover: Tulip Time, Transparency by Camera Clix Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Folded Hills of the Wasatch, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: | Dick Scopes Illustrations: ' Mary Scopes TOM The Magazine has been a great comfort to me while being on a Church Building Mission. | have been in Helsinki, Finland, for two years, and in Bergen, Norway, for a year and a half. When | was in Finland, | would take my Magazine with me to Relief Society and sit and read the lessons in English while the sisters were enjoying them in Finnish. The Magazine also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The little Haaga Branch in Helsinki, Finland, has one of the best organized Relief Societies that | have attended in the mission field. The group was small, but made of humble, loving sisters. But now they have a new chapel and a beautiful room and they are proud of it. | hope the sisters in Bergen will enjoy their new chapel and room when the building is finished. The sisters in Bergen are busy knitting Norwegian style sweaters for their building fund. They do beautiful work. Mildred Johanson Bergen, Norway | feel | must write and say thank you for the Relief Society Magazine which | sincerely appreciate and enjoy reading each month. | am always enraptured with the lovely pictures of trees, mountains, and lakes used as cover pictures, for | love all the things of nature that God has given for our enjoyment. | see his touch in everything, and, regardless of what man is doing, it will always be a_ beautiful world to me. Ella Palmer Westmead New South Wales Australia Our Magazine is one of so few that | keep. We don't have much room to keep things, but this is one |! Will keep. A woman gave me some of her Magazines, and these | keep with mine. How she could give away the Magazine is beyond me, with ail the helps and spiritual, uplifting material in it. Mrs. Sherri Jonte San Pablo, California 162 ae Just a word to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. | have used back issues, as well as each current issue, over and over again in the mission, for work projects, talk topics, and personal inspiration. Our Indian sisters love the Magazine, too. Many of them have expressed their appreciation, especially for the poetry and the lov. Color illustrations. The conference dress, ''Love, the Measuring Rod," Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (in t November 1965 issue) must have b written for my particular benefit. Estella L. Far Relief Society Supervi Northern Indian Missi Rapid City, South Da | agree with Mrs. Openshaw's comm (in the January issue of the Magazi about Dorothy Roberts' poem "Ye day's Gold."' It haunts me, too. Y ago, Dorothy, Margery S. Stewart, 1, and our three little daughters s a day together in an autumn can | can see the very gold-and-sh spot of which she speaks. And | th her words were for all of us. | proud to have these talented a beautiful women among my friends enjoyed all the poetry written by contest winners in the January M zine. The photography in the M zine is exquisite. Christie Lund Provo, U For several years now my dear cou Mrs. Vera Pettit of Layton, Utah, kindly been sending my family T Relief Society Magazine. As my h band and | prepare talks and less for Sunday services, with the child all taking part, we have on m occasions used messages and poe from the Magazine. The color pho graphs are wonderful. We have two missionaries call on us. They wonderful young men. Long may t Magazine send out its truths. Barbara Ki -. 

March Volume 5, Number 3
Relief Society Nee NT: - — a Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 164 Relief Society and Home Teaching Marion G. Romney 170 The Importance of the Family Home Evening in a Latter-day Saint Home Elna P. Haymond 178 Appropriate Music Materials Cleone R. Eccles 189 You Can Help, Too Emil Henderson- 191 The White Sands of New Mexico -Claire Noall 216 Visit of Queen Kapiolani to the Relief Society Jane Elizabeth Molen Fiction 172 The Search for Katie Third Prize Story Lael J. Littke 181 Little Ducks Can Swim Evelyn Fijeldsted 211 The Portrait Changes Diane Whitelock 220 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 3 Margery S. Stewart General Features 162 From Near and Far 186 Editorial: The Sustaining Power of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp 188 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 190 Embroidery Adorns Her Quilts 196 A Present for Grandma Celia Luce 198 Divinity Easter Eggs 200 A Golden Harvest of Knitting 202 Blue and Yellow Springtime Table Florence C. Williams 203 Quilting—Old As Ancient Yesterday—New As Today Louise W. Madsen 218 My Priority List Winnifred C. Jardine Lessons for May 233 Work Meeting—Simplify the Job Hazel S. Cannon Poetry 161 "From Whence... My Strength" Katherine F. Larsen The Gospel, Iris W. Schow, 169; The Year the Yuccas Bloomed, Ethel Jacobson, 185; On Limitations of Mortality, Lael W. Hill, 189; Flowers of Tomorrow, Dorothy J. Roberts, 201; A Quilter, Caroll Orton, 210; Returning March, Elizabeth Cottam Walker, 217; On the Mountain, Melba S. Payne, 225; Growing Accustomed, Kathryn Kay, 232; My Mother's Country, Christie Lund Coles, 235; For a New Stepdaughter, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 236. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew -. Promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. wl

 know this has been a long day for you, sisters, and, coming at the end of the session as it does, after this delightful presentation, what I have to say to you may be a bit dry. The subject I have in mind to discuss was suggested by the Relief Society Presidency. You might, therefore, have in mind an experience of a friend of mine who said that when he was a young man on the western frontier giving one of his first talks, he noticed in the far end of the hall a couple of restless cowboys who didn't seem to be very satisfied with his performance. At the conclusion of his remarks, they came up the aisle, one hand on their pistols, in the other their lariats. Taking note of his extreme nervousness, they said, "Young man, don't you worry. We know you did the best 164 Relief Society and Home Teaching Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of The Twelve { Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965.] you could. What we're looking for is the fellow who brought you here." The subject I was asked to discuss is 'Relief Society and Home Teaching." As background, let us keep in mind as we consider it, the fundamental truth that a knowledge of and conformance to the gospel of Jesus Christ are indispensable to a successful mortal life. Because it is so important that men be taught and encouraged to live the gospel, the Lord himself has set up a pattern by which this is to be done. Essential aspects of his pattern include five steps: 1. God's revealing the gospel to his prophets. 2. The prophets testifying thereof.. Teaching of children by parents. Support of the Priesthood. Ore oo Assistance by the auxiliaries. This pattern has been followed from the beginning. God the Father in the Garden of Eden personally taught Adam and Eve. After they had been banished from his immediate presence, they still "heard the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden" (Moses 5:4). As a reward for Adam's obedience to the Lord's commandments, an angel was sent to teach him the gospel. Mormon refers to this pattern as an established practice. He says that God himself, and angels sent by him, declare "the words of Christ"? Unto "chosen vessels of the Lord'"' — prophets — that they may bear testimony of him. And by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the way that the residue of men may have faith... That the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts... And after this manner bringeth to pass. The Father, the covenants which he hath made unto the children of men (Moroni 7:31, 32). Having taught Adam, the Lord instructed him to teach his children "... I give unto you [he said] a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children..." (Moses 6:58). "And Adam and Eve made all things known unto their sons and their daughters'"' (Moses 5: 12). The scriptures indicate that like instruction to parents has been given in all dispensations. Speaking of Abraham, the Lord said: ''... I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord " (Gen. 18:19). "... Teach" the words of God "diligently unto thy children," said Moses to Israel, "talk of RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up" (Deut. 6:7). The Book of Mormon is filled with references to such teachings. Nephi spoke of his parents as being "goodly" because they taught him "in all the learning of" his father. Enos judged his father to be a "Just man" because "he taught me in his language, and also in the nurture and admonition of 'the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it" (Enos 1). King Mosiah instructed his people that if they believed they would teach their children "... To walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another' (Mos. 4:15). Other scriptures reveal the fact that God's teaching plan requires that his Priesthood and other Church organizations supplement parents' teaching. Both the Old and the New Testaments speak of Priesthood and auxiliary organizations. Like facilities and congregations were common among the Nephites. King Benjamin's great farewell address was delivered to an immense gathering. (Mosiah, Chapters 2-4.) When Jesus ministered among the Nephites, he spoke of their "synagogues, or places of worship" (3 Nephi 18:32), and said unto them "behold, ye shall meet together oft'? (3 Nephi 18: 22). Mormon says they did meet "together oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord" (4 Nephi 1:12). 165 MARCH 1966 Moroni winds up the Nephite record on this matter by saying, And the church did meet together oft, to fast and to pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls. And they did meet together oft to partake of bread and wine, in remembrance of the Lord Jesus (Moroni 6:5-6). This ancient teaching pattern is still in force. As in the beginning, so in this dispensation, the Lord has revealed the gospel to chosen vessels by personal visitation, by the words of his own mouth, and by the ministering of angels. The prophets have borne testimony of the truth revealed. Many men have, by the power of the Holy Ghost, understood and accepted it. Again, parents have been directed to teach their children. In harmony with his ancient pattern, the Lord has, in this day, also, called his Church with its Priesthood and _ auxiliaries to supplement parents' teaching. As early as 1831 he inaugurated the sacrament meeting when he said, "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (D&C 59:9). We could trace through the organization of the Priesthood quorums, their functions and required meetings, as well as the various auxiliary organizations— Reiief Society, Sunday School, Mutuals, and Primary, the Genealogical Society, Church schools, Project Temple, Firesides, and other teaching and training programs—but this is not the time or place. Suffice it to say that 166 pursuant to the foundation revelations and the continued inspiration of the Lord, there are now available to Latter-day Saints under Church supervision sufficient revealed knowledge, knowhow, and facilities to teach every member of the Church the gospel of Jesus Christ. Presently, the leadership of the Church is engaged in a major effort to correlate all Church teaching, both doctrine and activities, to the end that with balanced emphasis, and without undue repetition or omissions, every child, youth, and adult in the Church may, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, be taught in the home and in Church organizations the gospel of Jesus Christ. In this correlated program both the Priesthood and the women in Relief Society have a great role to play. To accomplish our objectives will require parents; Priesthood bearers; and quorum, auxiliary, school, and other organization leaders to learn their "duty, and to act in the office in which" they are "appointed, in all diligence' (D&C 107:99). All these organizations are represented on the Church Correlation Committee, which views them all together as a composite, home-centered Priesthood Teaching Program. In harmony with the revelations, the first and basic objective of Church Correlation was to place the Priesthood and the home in their proper place. To this purpose much time and effort have been devoted. A major portion of the Priesthood's_ responsibility is to be carried out through Home Teaching. The primary place of the home is being emphasized in the program for teaching the gospel in the home in the weekly Home Evening. In the Lord's teaching pattern the work assigned to the Relief Society ranks high in the service required of the Church through its auxiliary organizations. You, of course, know that the Relief Society is the only auxiliary organized by the Prophet Joseph. You also know that some of its main functions are: To manifest benevolence, irrespec- - tive of creed or nationality; To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; To minister where death reigns; To assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; To raise human life to its highest level: To elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions; To foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement; To develop faith; To save souls; To study and teach the gospel. You are aware, too, that the Relief Society organization is calculated to serve and bless every woman in the Church. In pursuit of this objective, we need to make some real improvement in two services: (1) In soliciting new membership enrollments and (2) In increasing attendance of members at Relief Society. Relief Society and the Home Teaching should cooperate and get these jobs done. To this end there is much that you can do. I feel certain that you are striving to make your meetings and other activities so interesting and worthwhile that those who attend once will desire to return and RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING make their attendance regular. Your Relief Society visiting teachers can, of course, encourage the members they visit to attend Relief Society, and all members can invite their personal friends to enroll and attend. Official Church enlistment service, however, is the divine assignment of the Priesthood. The Lord so designated it at the time the Church was organized. In the same revelation in which he advised the Prophet Joseph Smith the exact day on which to organize the Church, the Lord told him that the calling of Melchizedek Priesthood bearers is, among other things, to "watch over the church" (D&C 20:42), and that "The priest's duty is to visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties" (D&C 20: 46-47). "The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them. And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty" (D&C 20:53, 55). The foregoing assignments include getting women to Relief Society as well as getting Church members to Sacrament meetings, to the temple, Priesthood meetings and all other Priesthood and auxiliary functions. Priesthood Home Teaching is the Church's official program through which men of the Priesthood are, in part, to magnify their callings in the Priesthood as set out in the 20th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Home Teaching is not limited in its function to a particular area of Church activity, such as teaching 167 MARCH 1966 the gospel in the home, missionary service, genealogical, or Church Welfare work, Seminary, Institute, or specialized auxiliary assignments. Its obligation is, rather, to support all these programs and activities and to encourage, motivate, and inspire the membership of the Church to perfect their lives by availing themselves of the gospel teaching and training provided in all these activities, including the Relief Society. If you sisters can grasp this concept and keep it in mind, you can perform a great service in helping to get it over to your husbands. The duty to perform the service of a home teacher is inherent in the acceptance of ordination to the Melchizedek Priesthood, and to the office of priest and teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood. I cannot see how a Priesthood bearer can willfully refuse to do Home Teaching without violating the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood, and which every Melchizedek Priesthood bearer takes upon himself. Home Teaching is one of the services by which Priesthood bearers magnify their calling and qualify for the great promise that "... Whoso is faithful unto magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies," and become members of "the church and kingdom, and the elect of God" (D&C 84:33-34). In the Home Teaching Program, under the supervision and direction of the bishop, a pair of Priesthood home teachers are assigned to each family. So far as help to Relief Society is concerned, they are, with an intimate knowledge of the total family 168 situation, in an official Priesthood position, to encourage, challenge, and inspire every prospective Relief Society member to enroll and every member to attend Relief Society. This they will do when properly motivated by their Priesthood leaders. Their Priesthood leaders will properly motivate them when they are properly instructed and challenged by the bishop. As Relief Society officers, your job — and it is indeed a very important one — is to keep the bishop up against his responsibility in this matter. If your enrollment or attendance has been falling off, or not increasing as it should, you will probably find you have not been doing this. Perhaps you have not known how to do it. Acting on this assumption, I will give you some suggestions. At least once a month the bishop is to hold a ward council C meeting at a suitable time and place. It should be held when all members of the council can attend, and adequate time should be allowed to transact the necessary business. Members of the council include: The three members of the bishopric, the Priesthood leaders who, under direction of the bishop, direct the home teachers— normally there are at least five of these Priesthood leaders—and executives of all ward auxiliary organizations, including, of course, and of first importance for these remarks, the president of the ward Relief Society. The Ward Relief Society president should have with her at this council meeting, specific, up-todate information concerning each woman in the ward whom she wants home teachers to motivate to activity in Relief Society. This ward council is the clearing house. It is the time and place where Home Teaching and Relief Society come together. It is an action meeting. If you don't make it function, the wheels of your membership enlistment and attendance programs cease to turn. Your responsibility in this meeting is to see that the Priesthood leadership is made aware of the help you need from them in your Relief Society assignment. Preliminary to this meeting, the ward Relief Society president should advise herself, through contact with the department heads of her ward organization, in a formal meeting or otherwise, concerning the women who are not receiving the blessing and privileges of Relief Society membership and whom she wants to activate. At the council meeting, the alert bishop will have already received reports concerning these women from the home teachers, through their Priesthood leaders. RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING With this information and that given him by the Relief Society president, he can wisely counsel the Priesthood leader of each pair of teachers who will visit these women, how to proceed to get them active in Relief Society. If the home teachers should need the help of a Relief Society officer or teacher in working with any of these women, the Relief Society president can be so advised by the bishop in the council meeting. Then, with this program _ efficiently working, no Latter-day Saint woman who should be in Relief Society need miss _ its benefits. Such is the relationship between Priesthood Home Teaching and Relief Society. Organized by the Prophet. Led by earth's noblest women. Sustained by the faith and works of the whole body of the Priesthood, you cannot fail. God speed you on your divine assignment to help teach and train the women of the earth in the ways of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I humbly pray in his name, Amen. THE GOSPEL Iris W. Schow The gospel is a flaxen tent Upon the desert of the earth; It is a purse whose contents, shared, Retain their undiminished worth. The gospel is a sparkling spring Whence living waters ever flow; A box of spikenard which has been Prepared against the hour of woe. The gospel is a fertile field; White for the harvesting it lies; And all who reap its sheaves of truth Shall see mankind through quickened eyes. 169 The Importance of the Family Home Evening in a Latterday Saint Home @ As I face this great audience of Relief Society workers, it comes most forcibly to me the tremendous potential power for good you sisters have in developing testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God in the minds and hearts of the members. Of the family. To enable us to accomplish this, the General Authorities have provided for us a course of study, known as the Family Home Evening, where we can gather our children around us and teach them the gospel. This is to be a Priesthood supervised evening, wherein the father is to take his place as patriarch and head of his family; where the mother takes her place at his side, that they may work together. Of what importance is_ the home organization? Where did it originate and what is its purpose? The late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in his inspiring talk on "Our Homes" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802), said, "To the Latter-day Saint, the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens. Thus we came from a celestial home to this earth; we shall return to a celestial home when we leave this world,' — when all God's laws have been obeyed. 170 Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society [Talk Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965. ] This clearly states that we all belonged to a heavenly home where heavenly parents taught eternal truths, guided, inspired, and loved the children of that home. Does this inspire us to do the same, to accept the program as given to us, to work out a way whereby all families—large or small, old or young, few or many —can meet and follow the program? President Clark further states that great laws have been given the Latter-day Saint family and by obedience to them and only to them will parents be enabled so to teach their children in righteousness that families will again return to the celestial home. Special Relief Society lessons provide us subject material which is closely correlated with the Priesthood lessons and tie in with the outlined course to be given in the home. From these studies we are reminded of the place and position the father holds in his family. We are retold that in the Latter-day Saint home, the patriarchal order continues as it was ordained in the heavens. The father is the presiding authority in matters pertaining to the family organization, "The Priesthood-born home is the loftiest spiritual organism of which we know" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802). Having learned this. Great truth, it will be easier for the wife to give this recognition to the husband during the teaching of the Family Home Evening. Here the children will learn respect for the father, for the Priesthood, and will learn to honor both the father and the mother. Upon the father, as patriarch of the family, rests the responsibility for the training and conduct of members of the family. With this knowledge of the origin, purpose, and destiny of the home, with its attending blessings, all effort should be made to create the proper atmosphere and | conditions in the home prior to the appointed time for the family to meet. Friction, confusion, outside duties, or any other disturbing influence should - be screened out in order that the father may have the spirit of the Lord to accompany the opening prayer. Plans for the program and assignments are to be made in advance. This will give the children a sense of belonging and of sponsoring the program. Since the mother spends so many hours in the home with her children, she becomes the principal disciplinarian in early child life. Her discipline and influence, her example, determine in a great measure the ability of the children to live good, clean, moral lives, to take an active place in the Church, in the state, and in their own future homes. In order to fill this assignment, a special night is designated in each stake and ward so that outside influences and appointments will not interfere. By divine authority, then, the evening may THE IMPORTANCE OF FAMILY HOME EVENING become a sacred time for the family. God will not hold guiltless parents who fail to do the most they have power to do to meet these responsibilities (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808). The Lord has not turned the training of the family in spiritual and moral truths over to the school, nor wholly to the Church. These truths are basic and must be started at the cradle in the home. To take her place, as a "'helpmate" to her husband, a mother in Israel is given the choice, the - favored, the divine injunction to ~ train her children that she may -prepare them for exaltation. We have been given a golden ' opportunity, in the Family Home _Evening, to teach them that: All this shall come to those who, obedient to God's law, shall be united together in the House of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God. All this can come to them through no other cause (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 810). President Clark tells us that we must decide the place we shall hold in God's household, in God's family, in our Heavenly Father's eternal home, whether it shall be in the inner family circle or outside in the halls and anterooms. This depends wholly upon what we ourselves do here, and upon what we teach our children. Much of this may be decided in the Family Home Evening. I would like to leave my love with you all and ask the blessings of the Lord on all of your righteous desires. It is my testimony that Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior is the Son of the living God. 171 Lael J. Littke @ The mailman brought two letters on the day Kathryn Carlson realized that she was no longer a person. One of them was addressed to her, a short note from her mother saying that Grandma Ames was failing fast and that it would be well if Kathryn could come right away. The other letter was for fiveyear-old Mimi. It was merely a form letter from a children's book club, but Mimi was enchanted. ""Mama," she marveled, gazing in wonderment at her own name on the envelope. "Mama, somebody knows I'm a person." Kathryn put aside, for the moment, her somber thoughts of Grandma Ames. She smiled at the little girl who had just discovered that she was an individual and that someone in the wide world beyond her home recognized her as such. What could ever equal this discovery of self? "T'm a person," repeated Mimi, 172 The Search for Katie THIRD PRIZE WINNING STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest clutching the envelope tightly. C "Just like Daddy's a person." "What about me?" Kathryn asked. ""Am I not a person?" '"You're a mother,'"' Mimi said. She looked again at her letter, clasped it to her small chest, and skipped off to her room to meditate about herself and the world. Kathryn laughed softly to herself. So now she wasn't a person. Walking back to the sink to resume the dishwashing which had been interrupted by the arrival of the mailman, Kathryn suddenly felt her scalp prickle with something akin to fright. Was she a person? How long had it been since she had thought of herself as a person, an individual personality, a self? She was in the habit of thinking of herself as a wife, a mother, a Sunday School teacher, P. T. A. President, cook, gardener, chauffeur, seamstress, scrub woman, comforter when knees were skinned or feel- "You're a mother," Mimi said. Ings bruised, dispenser of answers to questions ranging from John's early morning "Where are my socks?" to Mimi's_ unending "Why?" She was a chameleoncreature, changing from one role to another as necessity demanded. She was many things. But a person? An entity with needs and desires to be satisfied? Somewhere that self had been split up into so many fragments that it no longer existed. She was a forty-one-year-old mother of four children. But what had happened to the person she had once been? Kathryn stared at her hands, submerged in the _ dishwater. Grandma would know what had happened to her. They had always understood each other, the aging woman and the blithe young girl Kathryn had been before she went away to school and marriage. She had been called Katie then. Kathryn thoughtfully sloshed the dishcloth across a plate, remembering how she had run to Grandma when her parents couldn't understand why she wanted to go to an art school in another state. After all, the college right there in town had an art department. Why did she want to leave home and go off somewhere so many miles away? "Some folks are homebodies," Grandma had said. "They figure the moonlight looks just the same on their side of the mountain as it does on the other side, so why go see? But some of us have to go away from all that's familiar to find out more about ourselves and sharpen up our perception. Sort of hone ourselves on the whetstone of the world, you might say.'"' Grandma had smiled at Katie, the young, eager Katie, so impatient to be off to discover herself. ""You're so much like me, Katie. I wanted to go away, too, 173 MARCH 1966 when I was young. I could sing a little, and I wanted to study for a concert career. But then I met Will Ames at a Church picnic and settled for a career that suited me just as well." Grandma patted her granddaughter's hand. ''After all, the nicest part of going away is coming home again," she said. After Grandma had talked to Katie's parents, they agreed to let her go to the art school she wanted. She had gone away and "honed" herself, and had been pleased by the new interests and talents she found within herself. THEN she met John Carlson and married him, settling down in that city over a thousand miles from her family. She had been happy, so happy that she didn't even remember when the eager, independent young Katie had disappeared to be replaced by a middle-aged woman, a little overweight, a little tired and harassed, a little gray. A woman who scarcely ever thought of herself any more. A woman called Kathryn. Kathryn's reverie was broken by a tug at her skirt. It was one of the many small people who passed through the house all day long. One of Mimi's friends. "Mimi's mother," said the timid sprite, "where is Mimi?" "T think she's in her room, Mimi's friend," Kathryn said. So we're even, she chuckled to herself. Neither of us has an identity. She watched the solemn little girl walk from the room. I'm just Mimi's mother to her, she thought. To Joann's friends I'm Joann's mother. I'm also Diane's mother. And Bob's. I'm 174 John's wife. But-who am I really? She didn't tell her family that evening about not being a person. The children, from sixteen-yearold Joann to five-year-old Mimi, would just be puzzled. And John? Was she a person to John? Or was she just someone who was always there? She decided not to mention it to him, either. It was something she needed to find out for herself. Mimi showed the rest of the family her letter, slightly dogeared by that time. Everyone laughed indulgently when Mimi refused to let anyone else so much as touch the precious envelope. Bob recalled how when he was a little kid (exactly two years ago) he had received a letter from Grandma Ames. He had been so proud, he said, and still had it in his treasure box. Kathryn brought out the letter from her mother and read it to John and the children. Although none of them had seen Grandma more than four or five times, they were all sorry that she was ill. They agreed that Kathryn should go to her bedside as soon as possible. Of course they could get along while she was gone. She knew they were trying to make it easier for her to leave, but in her present touchy frame of mind she wondered if they would even miss her, except as a convenience. Thinking about it later, after she was in bed, Kathryn decided the trip would serve several purposes, besides permitting her to pay her love and respect to the little grandmother who meant so much to her. She could, as Grandma had said years ago, once more remove herself from her familiar surroundings and perhaps rediscover who she was. Perhaps she could find out what had happened to Katie Ames, wey =< once been a person.: Granpma looked tiny and fragile in her enormous bed. She was ninety-two, but Kathryn still found it almost incomprehensible to think of her so quiet, Grandma who had always been so filled with vitality, who had scampered about fixing dinner for ten people even so recently as three years ago when Kathryn had last seen her. "She's not in any pain," her mother whispered into Kathryn's ear as they stood looking at Grandma. "It's as if she just wore out all of a sudden." Kathryn squeezed back the tears and walked toward the bed. Her mother put a hand on her arm. "She may not know you," she cautioned.. "Sometimes she's a little vague. Sometimes she says she doesn't know who she is." Kathryn nodded and walked. To the bedside. She picked up the hand which lay inertly on the white coverlet. "Grandma," Kathryn." Grandma opened her eyes slowly, as if she were very tired. "Kathryn?" Her voice was like the tinkle of a tiny silvery bell. She gazed at Kathryn through the blue, blue eyes which had been the envy of all of her granddaughters. "Kathryn." She sighed, a sound like the flutter of a bird's wing. "I don't know who I am any more."' she said. "It's THE SEARCH FOR KATIE Mrs. Ames gave Kathryn a ""'see-what-I-mean"' look. "Grandma," she said, "'you'd better sleep now." Grandma _§ shifted _ restlessly. "Grandma," she whispered. ""Who is Grandma?" The frail hand picked at the coverlet. "If Will were here he would know who I am." "We'd better go now," Kathryn's mother said. "She shouldn't get upset."' "Let me stay just a few minutes, Mother," Kathryn whispered. Her mother tiptoed from the room. Kathryn looked at Grandma again. Couldn't they see what she needed? Was it only because she, Kathryn, was so much like Grandma that she could understand? Was there no one else who could think of her as someone other than Grandma? "Of course you know who you are,' Kathryn said _ softly. "Melissa Mary Bartlett, the prettiest girl in town." The blue eyes looked questioningly: at her. "Melissa Mary, with the crow's wing hair. Melissa Mary, with the summer sky eyes and the tiniest feet this side of the Rockies. Melissa Mary with the voice of an angel." A faraway look crept into Grandma's eyes. "I could hit D above high C,"' she whispered. | She smiled. "Selina Courtney couldn't do that. She got to A, once." Kathryn stroked the hair which was as soft and white as the down from the cottonwoods. Outside. '"'Remember, Melissa Mary, when you wore the cornflower blue dress at the Church picnic and saw your Will for the first time?" 175 Grandma had told her so many times the story of the picnic. "T knew how I looked in that dress," Grandma said. "Selina Courtney didn't have a chance." She_closed her eyes and smiled to herself, remembering. Kathryn thought she had gone to sleep. Then the blue eyes opened again. "Kathryn." The soft voice was barely audible. Grandma smiled and closed her eyes, and in repose her face was peaceful. "I wasn't always Grandma," she whispered, just before she drifted off to sleep. "I know," said Kathryn. "I know." She stroked the tiny hand she held until she was sure Grandma slept. "Goodbye, Melissa Mary," she whispered as she tiptoed from the room. Grandma died quietly in her sleep that night. Much as Kathryn would miss her, she was glad Grandma had gone on to rejoin her Will with the memory of herself as the singing, blue-eyed girl Will had first seen and loved. She knew Melissa Mary's homecoming had been a happy one. Kathryn thought a lot about herself and Grandma in the few days she stayed after the funeral. She had come hoping that Grandma could help her one more time, 176 but, instead, she had been able to help Grandma, for which she felt uplifted and rewarded. Perhaps this was part of the puzzle. When you were young you concentrated on taking whatever would help you identify yourself as a person. As you grew older and became wiser and more mature, you began giving of yourself and in doing so forgot yourself. But did this make you less of a person? Was not the giving of oneself even better than the discovery of self, more fulfilling than the indulging of self? Did it not indicate that you had become a bigger and better person, possessing qualities and capabilities you had not dreamed you possessed? Kathryn had not completely solved her problem by the time she boarded the train for her trip home, but she found it being pushed to the back of her mind by the prospects of seeing her family again. THEY were waiting for her on the platform of the train station. John managed to look dignified despite his eager grin. Bob and Mimi waved joyfully, and Joann smiled dreamily at the train as it slowed and stopped. Why, she's like I used to be, Kathryn thought. Dreaming of the time she can board a train or plane and be off to see the world. And Diane, who stood there trying to be grownup but wanting to shout with joy like the younger children—Diane's black hair was just like Katie's had been once, and like Melissa Mary's must have been. Young Katie is gone, Kathryn thought, whisked away by time, yet she is preserved in my chil- dren. Here, then, was another part of the puzzle. She scarcely had a chance to step from the train before the children swarmed over her, laughing, kissing her, welcoming her back. "Mom," said Bob, "It's no fun at home without you there." Mimi handed her the tattered remnants of her letter, the symbol of her discovery that she was a person. "I want you to have this,' she whispered. Kathryn's heart was full as she listened to the happy chatter of their adventures in her absence. - She-could never doubt again but that she was a person, a Very Important Person, in their eyes. If Katie was gone, if she had been sacrificed to the needs of a growing family, then the compensations were well worth the loss. But was she gone? What was she really, except an attitude, a state of mind, a fresh and eager and searching outlook on life? Could she not be recaptured, as Grandma after such a full life had recaptured a memory of a former identity just before she went on to meet her Will? Surely that old zest for seeking and learning must exist somewhere, mingled in with the busy wife, mother, Sunday School teacher, P. T. A. President, person, who was Kathryn. The years that the children are dependent on you are so very brief, Kathryn thought. You brought them into the world and then were caught up in teaching and guiding and caring for them. Before you realized it they were going to school and then soon were off to seek their own places THE SEARCH FOR KATIE in the world, leaving you wondering what to do with this person who had been so happy and absorbed in the role of mother and all it involved, that she almost forgot there was any other way of life. Miimt would be starting school in another month. Would not this, then, be a splendid time to rekindle Katie's old interest in art, indulge in a few special classes, work a morning or two in her friend Clara's interior decorating shop? She would have time to cater to John's tastes in food, too, as. She had done when they were first married, before they were involved in the _ peanutbutter world. Perhaps she and John could. Even take that dreamed-of trip, to see if the moonlight on the rooftops of Paris was as exciting as_ it sounded. Life was wonderful, Kathryn decided. The past had been busy and happy, and the years ahead were filled with promise, just as they had seemed to Katie so long ago. Nothing then, really, had happened to Katie, except that she had grown up. John had been standing quietly to one side, waiting for the children to finish their greetings. Now he came _ forward and handed her a single red rose, just like the first flower he had ever given her. "Welcome home, Katie," he said, smiling down at her. As she looked into his eyes and smiled back, Kathryn knew what Grandma meant when she said her Will would know who she was. For biographical sketch of Sister Littke, see page 210. 177 Appropriate Miusie Materials @ Music is old and music is new. It has always existed. Reference to its use as an expression of praise and rejoicing in the preexistent life is given in the scriptures, when the Lord asked Job: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundation of the earth?... When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" (Job 38:4, 7). It is reported that there are 1,325 references directly or indirectly to music in the Bible. Christ set the pattern for the singing of hymns at the time of the Last Supper, before he and the apostles went into the Garden of Gethsemane. Matthew recorded: "And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives" (Matt. 26:30). The importance of music has again been emphasized in this last dispensation. Soon after the organization of the Church, the Lord gave a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith in which he directed Emma Smith as follows: And it shall be given thee; also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song 178 Cleone R. Eccles Member, General Board of Relief Society {Excerpts from a talk delivered in the Music Departmental Meeting, of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D&C 25:11-12). The Relief Society recognized the great spiritual power of music when it organized the first Singing Mothers chorus in 1914. The June 1965 Relief Society Magazine reports that there are now 43,711 Singing Mothers in 3,113 choruses or an increase over last year of 211 choruses. We hope that these choruses will continue to increase until there is a Singing Mothers chorus in every ward and stake in the Church. Sister Florence Madsen has said, "Every ward should have a Singing Mothers chorus whether large or small. If there are but two members, find a director and start rehearsing. Others will soon become interested."" As many women as possible should become affiliated and enjoy the social and cultural experiences a chorus provides. For some women this is the only opportunity they have for self-expression. I have never heard a poor Singing Mothers chorus. True, some have been better than others, and some have been exceptional. The choice of music usually has geen good. The conventional white blouse and dark skirt adopted by the Relief Society, are attractive and lend a unified appearance. Care should be used in the seating of the chorus, placing the taller and larger women in the back rows and the smaller ones in front. If the music program for the year is planned early in the season, it will create enthusiasm and stimulate interest in rehearsals. An active Singing Mothers chorus is a great strength to Relief Society, as the sisters are ready to sing when needed. They are prepared to sing for ward functions and can readily be assembled into a large stake chorus for conferences and concerts. It is important to have stake and ward librarians catalogue all music owned by the organizations, and to know at all times where it is. If the stake chorister knows what music is available in the wards, it may save buying music for a stake concert. Encourage the sisters to take music home with them to study. If they will do this it will take much less time to learn a song. But keep a careful list of who has the music. Some singers may have diffi- "culty reading music, so the dif-— ferent parts should be rehearsed separately. If this is not done with the more difficult songs, the altos and second sopranos will always feel insecure in their parts. When choosing music, leaders should make sure that the songs are appropriate for the occasion, as to text and music. Use songs that express our Latter-day Saint philosophy. Avoid songs that bring Deity down to man's level. APPROPRIATE MUSIC MATERIALS Dr. Stanley Armstrong Hunter said that words have a far reach, and yet there are tremendous regions beyond. Music carries words to far places, where they can never go alone. Music gives life and soul to words. All great music has a great and lofty text. During an interview, Caruso, the world's greatest operatic tenor, was asked, "Where do you locate the source of expression in singing?'"' His answer was: "I find it in the words always. For unless I give my listeners what is in the text, what can I give them?" In building a repertoire, choose songs of such worth that they can be sung over and over again, and still present some challenge and joy to the singers. You will find a splendid listing of sacred and secular songs in "Music Leadership in the Relief Society," by Florence J. Madsen, graded Easy, Medium, and Difficult, in two and three part arrangements. Singing Mothers programs may be built around a subject chosen from the scriptures, or from the works of composers and poets. Correlating musical numbers may consist of solos, duets, organ, strings, etc., as well as the spoken word. You may find instrumentalists in your wards and stakes who are waiting for just such an opportunity to revive and use their talents. Frequent use should also be made of the hymns in the back of the hymn book that are arranged for women's voices. There are also program suggestions in Chapter 10 of this same little book of Sister Madsen's. To name a few: 179 MARCH 1966 Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns Stories of other Christian hymns Music as a Missionary Seasonal programs, such as Christmas, Easter, Spring, etc. I have heard Sister Florence Madsen say that one of the great benefits of Singing Mothers concerts is to have the husbands and the families of the singers present to see and hear what their wives and mothers have accomplished, and why it has been necessary for them to go to rehearsals. President Belle S. Spafford has said, "When we have a combination of beautiful music and beautiful women, willing to serve, who have a gift of song, a talent, and use it for the benefit of the Church, we have a creation that is truly worthwhile." For the congregational singing, every song in the hymn book is a good song in its place, but the lesson material may be greatly enhanced by choosing songs that support the objective of the lesson. The Family Home Evening is the ideal time and place to encourage and develop the talents in the family. Let each member have some part on the program. They will never have a more indulgent and sympathetic audience to encourage and coax along their talents. Tommy may falter when playing the piano, and Mary's squeaky violin may not enhance the accompaniment, but it is a wonderful learning process, and they are putting their music to practical use. I am reminded of the home orchestra of my childhood and the many happy eve- 180 nings we spent together as a family. There are songs suggested for - each, lesson in the Family Home Evening Manual, but the program should be flexible to accommodate the different age levels. Let the children suggest songs that they would like to sing. It may be a Primary song or one from the Recreational Song Book, or a familiar hymn. To me, the most important function of music on Family Home Evening is to have a happy time together on a spiritual level. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Purchase some kind of instrument for the home and see that its beneficent harmonies are often heard. Let music be as much a part of a day's routine as eating or reading or walking." Children who study musical instruments should often be reminded of the service they can give the Church as conductors and accompanists when they are qualified and ready. This training is also invaluable in the mission field. My grandson, who was a very difficult piano student at home, was very pleased to write to me while on his mission that he could play nearly. A hundred hymns from memory. Music has become a very important part of his life because he was able to see its practical application. I will close with the words of the great apostle Paul—"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord" (Col. 3:16). Little Ducks Can Swim @ It was an early spring morning. The atmosphere held the aroma of a garden that had just been plowed. The buds on the lilacs were like little green candles ready to be lighted, and the daffodils in the corner of the fence like splashes of gold. My cousin Jenny came smiling through the doorway. She held a cardboard box, which she carefully placed on a chair. She seemed very happy as she re- _moved the cover displaying two tiny ducks. Lostlings, they seemed to be, for they were crying pathetically, each one trying to get closer to the other for comfort. "Our mother duck had so many little ducks she could not care for them all,'"' Jenny was saying. '"'Mama said she was sure you would like to have these two. They must have different kinds Evelyn Fijeldsted of grain and drinking water. That's all." "How about a place for them to swim?" I asked, hoping to discourage her. I did not want two little ducks. "Qh, they don't really need to swim," Jenny said, "they get along very well without water. Please take them, Ann. They will like it here with you and John." However, when John came he said they should really be on the farm, but he thought this might be an interesting adventure, so we kept them. After Jenny had gone, I looked at the lonely little creatures. To care for them seemed such an unusual task. I found myself wishing they would swim so far away they would never find their way back. They were such helpless, hungry little creatures, my only thought then was to feed them. 18] MARCH 1966. Day after day I fed them, and day after day they shoveled food, their little bills reminding me of little yellow shovels. John made a pen for them by cutting the bottom out of a large shallow cardboard box, and fastening coarse mesh wire over the top. This we placed on the lawn. As the days passed, we could almost see them grow. One morning they seemed to be greatly disturbed. Finally, I went to investigate. One of them had managed to get through the wire and had found himself in the outside world. He was terrified. Not three feet away the cat was watching. He seemed to know something was wrong. He could have so easily hurt the little duck, but he didn't make a move to do so. When he saw me, he came running toward me, and while I was replacing the duck he just sat there and looked on. When the little duck was safely inside the pen the cat followed me back to the house. I wondered if two such little ducks could swim. Maybe all ducks, large or small, could swim naturally. I placed a large basin of water § on the lawn, then carefully I | placed one and then the other on the water. Using their webbed feet for paddles, they sailed around like little boats. They had grown so large now that the two of them almost filled the basin. Near the corner of the 182 lot was a wire enclosure with a small shed at the back. This became their homing base for the next few months. When they had reached their full growth, they could wander about on the outside of the pen. When the sun was high they could stretch in the shade of the big cottonwood tree. They also could swim in an old tub, which we kept filled with water from the hose. Later John made a pond for them with the waste water from an irrigation stream. We placed a box beside the tub and they soon learned that this was a step up to splash into the water, where they sailed around like a merry-go-round. They were ungainly creatures, tripping over their own big feet, which were turned slightly inward. They had to work hard to right themselves. When I called to them they would come half running and half flying across the lawn. Their running ability was not great, but when they would fly, though not very high, they were beautiful and graceful as butterflies. Q Sop If they found the cat in their path they would each in turn give him a sharp peck. This was an insult he chose to ignore and complacently he looked — into space as if they did not exist. Each evening I would walk up to fasten the latch on the little enclosure. When the nights were stormy the ducks would be sheltered back in the shed, and when I spoke to them they would answer reassuringly with sleepy little sounds. On moonlit nights, we could see them standing out in the open, side by side, as still and as artistic as two little white statues. With their heads held high, they seemed to be looking at the stars, wondering at the great silence they seemed to sense. When an airplane droned through the valley skies, they would stop abruptly and stand at attention, looking upward with their heads turned slightly sidewise. With one little searching black eye, each duck telescoped the regions above. In this position they would listen intently until there was no more sound. They seemed to be wondering at this great high-flying mystery and were very quiet as they turned and walked side by side. Once when a small pattern of wild ducks sailed overhead so near to the earth they could be both seen and heard, the ducks sat down and watched and waited. Could it be that these little earth-acclimated creatures could in some unaccountable way sense a kinship with these skyflying travelers that seemed to have some ancestral characteristics that belonged to them, too? When we turned the sprinkler on the lawn, near the outside, where the sprinkling was light, the ducks would weave in and out, following a kind of pattern. When they met they would playfully touch bills, and often they would touch my hand. Then they LITTLE DUCKS CAN SWIM would dart back toward the center where the waterfall was heavier, and where they could reach up and catch the dripping water in their clicking bills. Drinking seemed to be a part of the game or part of the ballet. When we turned the sprinkler off, their tail feathers would be drooping and their wings weighted with the dampness. Then they would streak off for a sunny place to shake out their feathers, and, for the sheer joy of living, they would stand upright like penguins and spread their wings like the brave fierce eagle stamped on the silver quarter. THEY must have heard the river, or perhaps instinct told them that somewhere it was rolling, singing through the valley and calling to them. This insistent calling must have had a deep meaning or message for them. One late afternoon they answered the call and set out to find it. They did not return that evening nor the next, so John went with me to find them. We followed the river, a silver vein leading to the highland reservoir, and we wondered how far a duck could swim. We looked for them in the willows along the rugged banks. We 'called to them and listened, but the only answer was that of the prairie winds and the splash of a fish in the water. We went farther on and searched the marshes, the coves where the watercress grew, and along the side streams until twilight fell on the countryside. One day we met Mr. Nelson, who lived out that way. John said to him, "'Have you seen a pair of big white ducks out this way, Mr. Nelson?" 183 MARCH 1966 ''Well, come to think of it,'"' he said, "I did see a couple of ducks - over there in the pond a few days ago. Wondered where they came from. Haven't seen them since. Maybe the hunters got them." We knew the hunters in our valley would not shoot tame ducks, and especially out of season, but surely they were exposed to many other dangers. For several hours we continued our search, but we could not find even a white feather. They were gone. They were lost. That night I walked up to the little enclosure. The moon, like a bright tableau, was illuminating the old tub and all the little corners, but it seemed strangely desolate and as remote as the distant hills. The breeze seemed to be like the breath of another world. The leaves on the big trees were shivering. My wish, I thought, had been granted — my wish that the little ducks would swim so far away they could never find their way back. As I turned to go, I felt a kind of regret — a kind of loneliness. One evening, a few days later, we were out in the yard. We heard a great commotion. There was the wild whirring and flapping of wings, and we could hear that old familiar call. It wasn't a frightened call, and plainly it wasn't a swan song, but it was a happy homecoming song. We looked over to see the ducks, like snow white streaks, half running, half flying across the pasture lot. They ran straight for the little enclosure and passed single file through the open gate as fast as their little short legs and big flat feet could carry them. They were too contented to answer when we called to them. They had come home. Soon the leaves were tinged with autumn dye. The little pond would soon be lost in depths of snow. The corner shed was not built to hold back the heavy storms, so one day, they flapped out to winter on the farm where they could have a wider range and where they would be safe. —. | SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE The April 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, featuring four outstanding short stories. Watch for these stories in April: ''Look Mom: One Hundred Dollars' by Helen H. Trutton — I "Thomena's Break Through" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Birthday Present for Amy'' by Mary Ek Knowles 'That Certain Sparkle" by Frances Carter Yost —— — —— YUCCA IN THE SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS, CALIFORNIA, by Don Knight > 184 EDITORIAL The Sustaining Power of Relief Society mw A husband advised a man whose family had just moved into the ward, ''If you want to have your family integrated, have your wife join Relief Society." The advice was gratefully followed and soon the family members had friends in their peer groups. The mother became a visiting teacher and made friends not only with the sisters who attended Relief Society but also a few who were visited who did not attend Relief Society. The family became a happy integrated part of the ward. The sustaining power of Relief Society in the life of a Latter-day Saint woman was provided by a loving Heavenly Father. As an auxiliary of the Priesthood, its spirit transcends nationalities and cultures. In another ward a Relief Society member gathered into her home those sisters in the ward who had English as a second tongue. Though a few were still unable to understand English, Relief Society had been the means of bringing them together in loving bonds.. A sister who had lived in a ward only a short time when her husband passed away, was only able to mingle with so many strange people through a Relief Society neighbor calling for her to attend Relief Society meetings, from which she gained strength to attend the sacrament meetings. Sometimes a husband who is not a member of the Church allows his wife to go to Relief Society, whereas he does not want her away from the home on Sunday. The sustaining power which may come to her is incalculable. From the study of the scriptures she receives strength to live more perfectly day by day. From the Teaching the Gospel in the Home lessons, she receives suggestions on improving family relationVolume 53 March 1966 R Belle S. Spafford, @ Marianne C. Sharp, e Louise W. Madsen, @ Hulda P. Young, ships. She may improve in all phases of homemaking and become knowledgeable in the cultural arts. She receives confidence in her everyday living and the strength to interest her husband through the power of her sweet example. One such sister prevailed upon her husband to attend a sacrament meeting at which the Singing Mothers were performing. The warm friendliness of other families was the means through which Home Teachers were allowed to call. In time this resulted in the conversion of the husband. The influence of a good woman has no bounds. Nor does the influence of Relief Society in helping to make a good woman better. Relying on the authority which a calling gives a woman gives her the means of accomplishing far greater things than she personally feels able to perform. Wisdom in training children is not the least value learned in Relief Society, and basic to growth is the recognition of the power of the Priesthood and the necessity to be obedient to the advice of a husband, exercised in righteousness. Relief Society teaches women to sustain the Priesthood, which is basic to progression. Relief Society schools the intellect of women. Relief Society trains the skills of women. Relief Society enlarges the souls of women and builds in them a sustaining power to forsake evil and cling to the good. Relief Society was given as a sustaining power to the womanhood of the Church. It is for every Latter-day Saint woman a means of improving herself and bestowing service on others. —M. C. S. Ramona W. Cannon Marguerite Higgins, famous American journalist, died January 3, 1966, at the age of forty-three, of a liver complaint which it is believed, she contracted in the line of duty in Viet Nam. ''Maggie'' Higgins was especially noted as a war correspondent, and always placed the accuracy, humanity, and general high quality of her work above her personal welfare. One of her editors said of her, ''She was one of the best newspapermen this country ever had."' She was still turning in columns while she lay critically ill in the hospital. Michico, Crown Princess of Japan, gave birth to a second son in December. Third in line to the throne, the prince was named Fumihito, and given the title ''Ayanomiya.'' In the Japanese language, Fumihito means ''knowledge pursuer."' Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, whose poems have appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, has been named poetry and fiction editor of the Improvement Era. She is the author of the words to three Latter-day Saint hymns: "In Humility, Our Savior," "Lord, Accept Into Thy Kingdom," and "Rejoice, Ye Saints of Latter Days."' She has served in the Northwestern States Mission. Miss lanthe Harris of New York City is director of the American Nurses Association educational program. The aim is to help this large national group to perform functions in society which cannot be performed individually. 188 Princess Chumbhot of Thailand is Chairman of Bangkok's new Asia Trust Bank, Ltd. Many other women of Thailand are leaders in various types of business, and it is estimated that women own about ninety per cent of Bangkok's real estate. Mrs. Somsri Charoenrajapark is manager and owner of a mammoth combination of bowling alleys, restaurants, and parking garages. She owns a large interest in the more-thana-million-dollar President Hotel. Mrs. Suni Telan owns and manages much of the stock of a holding company which controls several hotels, an export-import firm, rice mills, teak and mining companies, an aluminum fabricating plant, and extensive real estate. Supapan Mejudhon helps her mother run a forty-nine boat ferry fleet on the Chao Phraya River. Marion Sheil, personnel director of the Cuyahoga County, Ohio, public library system, is one of the many library officials reporting an acute shortage in this profession. In her district, which circulates some five million books annually, she reports that it often takes two years to find trained personnel to staff the twenty-four libraries in Cuyahoga County. It has been estimated that there are about 6,000 medical libraries in the country, but only 3,000 trained librarians to staff them. Juanita Groves, a Ute Indian of Myton, Duchesne County, Utah, has initiated a series of health education programs for Indian women. The first program included instruction in personal hygiene and certain aspects of communicable disease prevention. You Can Help, Too Emil Henderson American Red Cross @ ''Please let me know if there is anything | can do to help."' How many times have we said and written these words to a friend or had a friend say them to us when tragedy and misfortune struck. They are words expressing the true meaning of the brotherhood of man. Unfortunately, since we cannot always be there or do not always know that people are in trouble and need our help, we must often rely on someone else to do the job for us. The American Red Cross is one organization that is uniquely well suited and perfectly willing to do the job and to say to people in every corner of the nation and the world: ''Let me help.'' But, as President Johnson reminded us when he declared March as Red Cross Month, only we can keep the Red Cross strong and on the job by our contributions of money and volunteer service. If we cannot go to Louisiana to help the — left homeless by Hurricane Betsy, we can entrust our dollars to the Red Cross to be sent in our place. Few of us can go to Viet Nam to provide the essential personal services needed by our able-bodied and wounded military personnel, but Red Cross is there for us. Most of us can give a few hours every week as volunteers. The Red Cross offers us the opportunity to reach the people in our own community who have a special need for the friendship and help of another human being. As the slogan, ''You Can Help, Too—Join Up, Join In,"' indicates, the Red Cross offers us the opportunity to say to friend and stranger alike, 'Please let me know if there is anything | can do to help." Ca ON LIMITATIONS OF MORTALITY Lael W. Hill There is always a beyond. | will always try to find it. No thing can be forever bound— | must forever try to bind it. 189 MARCH 1966 oL oP e OoM SPT y BE TSS C Embroidery Adorns Her Quilts Mrs. Magdalene Schoenfeld has made more quilts than she can remember. Many of her beautifully stitched quilts have been adorned with embroidery—crossstitch and lazy-daisy—floral and geometric designs. Relief Society organizations in several wards have been proud and grateful to display Mrs. Schoenfeld's artistic work. Now, at ninety-three, she still works on quilts, finishing them and carefully stitching the bindings. She tells the Relief Society sisters that they aren't keeping her busy enough. She has been a member for seventy-three years, and a visiting teacher for fifty-three years. Now a member of Poplar Grove Second Ward in Pioneer Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah), she rejoices in Relief Society and counts her many blessings. She keeps her home ''neat as a pin'' and cooks for her son. Her happy spirit reaches out to friends and neighbors in love and service. 190 -. /N " Sierra Blanca AN 12,004 ft. I AS 7% "a i. On 5a Cloudcroft 4 Y Alamagordo C) White Sands a /\ National Monument Sacramento ie alt. Approx. His 4200 ft. > a, Lake Loop —SgR Visitor uf M ga A anal ali Lucero 4.{ \ Center oo Cee sania, e ie: my Je Pu? Te fo Las Cruces /\ ig y PRodeo Pasa) The White Sands of New Mexico — cieire noai @ Southern New Mexico's White Sands National Monument is a maze of ever-shifting, ever-whispering dunes. Matthew and | arrived at the Visitor Center in late afternoon. We had driven down from Cloudcroft, high in the Sacramento Mountains, where we had seen brightly clothed skiers cutting glissandi in actual, pine-girt snow. Within an hour's time we lost a thousand feet in altitude but thereby gained a warmth of velvet air in arid drouth. We left roadside flowers nodding April's greeting to enter a fairyland of simulated snow. This texture holds no visible moisture; yet in the marginal dunes a scant vegetation lifts its stems forty feet through burying sands. The roots, lying incredibly deep, anchor the grains of gypsum. A few species survive, such as shrubby pennyroyal, four-wing saltbush, and dark green iodine plant. The low crowns challenge the ceaseless charge borne on the prevailing northeasterly winds. Root, stem, and leaf pedestal the restless particles until they adhere almost as if cemented together. The sands may arrive on a whisper or stampede on a gale; but, because they seldom purl beyond the bastion, the dark-blotched hills wall them in. From these highly patched border-dunes we commenced the Loop Drive, cleared as nature dictates, where, presently, no plant was seen. The white road glistened and reflected the blue of the sky. It curved in and out between winged hills, and, suddenly, | felt an irresistible desire to leave the car—which must not leave the road. | left the car and ran headlong toward the slopes, my spirit light. My husband Matthew fol- 191 MARCH 1966 lowed at a more leisurely pace. Up the dunes | raced, weaving a pattern of footprints in cupping palms which permit no permanence. The white sands covered my sandals as 1 stood. The sands crept away like waves of water, leaving me almost without a footing. Prints dissolved under my path. Prints made by running children remained, linked for a moment only, then they vanished, even as the laughter of these young, barefooted visitors faded across the air. Children are particularly welcome at this Monument. Conservation here stands aside for recreation. Many people come—as many as 300,000 in a single season. | climbed a high slope, and every rippling wave increased in brightness according to its opposing shadow. Evening was at work. The gleam assumed the luster of mother-of-pearl. A few parallel lines, scratched on the gypsum bed at the foot of the dune, shone like mica. As the day's bright azure faded, | reached the cream-colored crest and looked into the pots of blue at my feet. Long shadows of low-keyed indigo, subdued by the non-reflecting light, gradually descended the full length of the immense oval bowl. | stood on the crest with my husband, hand in hand in the solitude of sundown, in the aloneness of April, and for me the dunes began to write a poem, a poem of accent and meter, of curving line and irregular sequence—a poem of silence, too, except for the distant calls of the children. Seconds passed. Length of line, foot, and stanza changed. We strolled down the slope to the channel, when all at once an unexpected golden light tinted every windward exposure. The alpenglow had touched each sunward crest, slope, and ripple. They shone pale as the fire of white sandalwood; then the magical veils of coral and crimson commenced to lower their hems. We turned a bend. A wee white pocket mouse caught the shimmer. It scurried away, making no more lasting impression in these shifting waves than the small bleached, earless white lizard can cut. Only these two species of animal have adapted to the white environment. Once upon a time the valley stretched between its two ranges of mountains level as a table. To the east, the Sacramentos are capped by 12,000 foot Sierra Blanca's snowbound peak. Westward, the San Andres range crests dark blue against a more remote horizon. The great sink provided no outlet for its drainage. In the distant mountains snow and rain still dissolve the gypsum. The run-off finds its way to reed-grown Lake Lucero in the southeastern corner of the Monument. When the moisture dries, it leaves behind exquisitely translucent elongated crystals. The wind, with busy fingers, tools these jewels into miniature spheres. An area of more than 275 square miles has succumbed to the display. The rare white grains move faster and pile deeper under the northeasterly winds than do the sands of any comparable area in the world's barrens. If the wind blows the sands against your car, don't worry; they'll mar neither paint nor glass; they'll not scratch your face; and though they may pelt your legs your hose will not fall apart. The grains are 192 somehow both soft and slightly heavy. They fly close to the floor, and still they shift and take shape. The dunes rise and elongate, drift and diminish, only to rise again. The Loop Drive is constantly cleared to keep it from being drifted over. The hard white road is marked by mileposts which one is asked - to respect. In the soft shoulders, the wheels of a car bog down, and, if they spin, the driver calls for help. To dig a tiny groove in the gypsum bed is to see how close to the hard surface the water level lies. A runnel forms, whose waters, being highly mineralized, support a wide variety of microscopic life; but they will not support you; they are not potable. You may picnic in the Monument provided you bring your own supplies. None are available at the Visitor Center; nor is there a restaurant. In a widely cleared area, however, among the dunes, tables are shaded by metal-slatted sails which, curving against the wind and reflecting the blue of both sky and sand, suggest a flotilla of ancient Norse ships. Food was forgotten in the gleam of alpenglow. Night was closing in. The beam of starlight soon would be tracing these ghostly crests. | asked myself what moonlight could not do for them. Again | felt the pulse of the dunes expand and decrease, rise and diminish. Again | heard the poem of silence, the runic song which sang of itself in the White Sands National Monument. For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come (Solomon 2:11, 12). P A Present lor Grandma Celia Luce @ When our daughter was about five, she and | worked out a present for her grandmother. She made several pictures, mostly of people, but some of animals, houses, and trees. | cut patterns from her pictures, and stenciled them onto a lunch cloth. Naturally | made myself one, too. Her grandmother and | have treasured them ever since. Later, | wrote to my nieces and had them send me some drawings their children had made. For Christmas | gave my sister-in-law a set of dish towels. Each dish towel had the drawing from one of her grandchildren painted on. Two of the children were almost too young to hold a crayon—this was the first. Drawing each had ever made. These were just scribbles in color, but they made interesting and precious designs on the dish towels. | never saw my sister-in-law more pleased over any gift. The stenciled cloth we made several years ago was a lot of work. The dish towels were easy. For the dish towels | used textile paints that come in tubes with a ball point on the end of the tube. They are especially good for reproducing the crayon drawings, too, for they make a mark like a crayon. | paid 50 cents a tube for the paints, but a tube contains enough paint for hundreds of uses. They are wonderful for decorating any household linens. In any textile painting, the first job is to wash the material to be painted. Most new cloth contains starchy filler. If that isn't washed out, part of the paint goes onto the starch, and the paint washes out with the starch, leaving a dull, lifeless pattern. | used two methods of transferring the design. For the older children's drawings | used a sheet of carbon paper and tracea the design onto the dish towel. For the babies' scribbles this was too complicated. | pinned the drawing under the cloth, then used a piece of glass with a light under it. Then | could see the design and draw it right on without tracing with carbon. The paints work like writing with a ball point pen. Use a scrap of old cloth to get the paint flowing right—just as you start a balky ball point pen on a scrap of paper. Then just go over the design. Push down on the tubes, but do not squeeze them very hard. Squeezing may build up pressure inside the tube that makes the paint ooze out and fill the cap after you have put it away. Embroidery hoops may be used to hold the material taut, but put the cloth in upside down from the usual way. The cloth must be below the hoops rather than above the hoops, for you must have a hard surface under the cloth to work on. Always use newspaper under the cloth as a little of the paint will come through onto the table otherwise. When the painting is finished, dampen a press cloth with vinegar and place over the design, then press with the iron. This makes the design more permanent. Use a rag for a press cloth as a little of the color comes off in this first pressing. These designs stay for a long time. They fade a little with repeated washings, but not greatly. 196 On e- e a 5 PRED Ser eRe ne Bee Me EL. N. |e retest acco NOS RR BE RE I CIEE wet Ne Ne wot Bete TT I me wre —_ WRB a2. " nae DIVINITY EASTER EGGS keep the chocolate from hardening too fast. Work fast before chocolate hardens. Stir with circular motion, using wooden spoons. Coat bottoms first. When set, coat the rest of the egg. Avoid getting any water in the chocolate. Avoid having eggs too cold when dipping. Be sure all of egg is covered. When chocolate egg is cool handle from underneath the egg. Fingers mark the chocolate. Decorating Eggs Have flowers for decorating made up ahead of time. Have a different color for each kind of egg, for example coconut: white flower nut: yellow flower fruit and nut: pink flower maple: pate blue flower Make up green leaves ahead of the flowers and separate them. Recipe for icing to make flowers 1 pkg. (1 Ib.) powdered sugar 1% tsp. Cream of tartar 3 egg whites coloring Beat with electric beater, until the mixture looks like Crisco. Keep wet cloth over icing to keep it workable. Do not make flowers too high, as the box top will crush them. Put flowers on wax paper or aluminum foil as you make them, so they will come off easily when needed to be placed on eggs. Wait until chocolate on the eggs is cooled to put on the flowers. To put flowers on eggs, dab a tiny bit of chocolate on bottom of the flower and place the flower on egg. Too much chocolate will spread out and show on the egg. Os ° an Eger Making Light and Dark Chocolate Easter Eggs Left to right: Florence Simmons, head of candy-making project; Erma Williamson; Helen Hatch, President Pittsburgh Branch Relief Society, and Secretary-Treasurer, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society; Frances Hoffman. 199 Hal Rumel A Golden Harvest Of Knitting Display from the Work Meeting Exhibit at the Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965 The colorful afghans, stoles, and sweaters featured in the above display were part of a varied and beautiful exhibit from East Mill Creek Sixth Ward, East Mill Creek Stake. The display featured articles which older sisters, as well as younger sisters, enjoy making. Most of the articles in the picture were made by Mary Brockbank North, ninety-three years old. She learned to knit after her seventyfifth birthday and quickly became an expert. Last year she won five first prizes at the County Fair, and five firsts at the Utah State Fair, as well as two seconds and one third place. Her knitted afghans have received much praise for their lovely color, unusual design, and expert craftsmanship. Each afghan looks as if the decorative motifs had been made separately and then attached to the afghan, but they are an intrinsic part of the knitting, and stand out in exquisite detail. Elizabeth Simon ea 4 FA FLOWERS OF TOMORROW Dorothy J. Roberts Edge me with evening—why should | Hope for gold forever poured from sky, Knowing how in darkness planets bloom, And spring is contoured from the dream's dim room. Temper me with midnight when light has gone, Darkness always being the harbinger of dawn. Seed me with summer in the dark and cold As has been the way since time was tolled. Faith being sinew and bridge between, Faith being substance, though unseen; Tenuous, essential, let its fibers grow, Flowers of tomorrow forming under snow. MARCH 1966 Hal Rumel Blue and Yellow Springtime Table Creative Arrangement by Florence C. Williams For a springtime luncheon or dinner party, or for light refreshments in the evening, a blue and gold springtime table is a delight that lifts the spirits into the season of sunlight and flowers. For entertainment in the home, or for a graduation party or a Relief Society closing social, the blue and gold theme speaks a floral welcome. The wooden-shoe containers in the picture are painted blue, and the looped greenery is ''leather'' fern. The flowers in the wooden shoes are bachelor's buttons (Centaurea cyanus) and daisies. The tall spikes in the decorated pitcher are snapdragons and delphinium. Similar arrangements could be made by using other types of greenery, such as myrtle (Vinca), ivy, or asparagus fern. Yellow asters, lilies, daffodils, or hyacinths could be used with blue phlox, campanula, columbine, or mertensia, or in combinations of various blue and yellow flowers having sufficient ''body'' in petals and stems to make effective arrangements. Floral clay, ''frogs,'' or wire mesh can be used for holding the flowers in position. If some of the stems appear to be fragile, they can be supported by inserting a "thread"' of fine wire. It will be a happy springtime with a floral welcome designed in blue and gold. 202 aan @ Quilting is enjoying a tremenHuiltin dous popularity. Quilted fabrics | adorn furniture of all styles, from Early American, French and Italian e Provincials, and the Spanish and He Ac Ancient Mediterranean influences, to Contemporary. Beds are attractively spread with quilted bedspreads. Quilted cornices for draperies are CS CT ay a feature of lovely rooms. Quilted cushions bring gay touches of color. Warm winter robes are often | A | ( quilted. Practically every child who CW § 1) ay needs a warm coat has a quilted parka or the lining of his coat ts | quilted. Sports-minded adults find quilted sportswear attractive. Down Counselor Louise W. Madsen | puffs are still used, in fact, the uses of quilting are more numer- | ous and varied today than ever | before. (continued on page 209) Sego Lily Quilt Original design by Mary C. Imlay, made under the direction of Grantsville Stake Relief Society Hal Rumel Transparencies by Hal Rumel An Appliqued Quilt in Raised Design Nellie H. Smith The quilt pictured above is made of white "crinkle crepe' and decorated with raised applique motifs of flowers, buds, and butterflies. A white crepe quilt top can be centered with a colored piece of crepe about 3 1/2' x 4 1/3' and the appliqued design placed on the center color. The center part can be cut in large scallops, the edges carefully turned under with a blind stitch, and an edging of tatting or other type lace attached around the scallops. The design is planned and the appliqued motifs attached before the quilting is done. A quilting design 204 QUILTING—OLD AS ANCIENT YESTERDAY—NEW AS TODAY of appropriate scrolls or flower shapes adds to the interest and beauty of the quilt. Various types of flowers, buds, or butterflies may be used. Cut the decorative patterns and carefully turn the edges under with a small running stitch. Each petal or wing or bud is then gathered with small stitches, and assembled and joined together. The flower centers may be made of a small circle of double crochet. The petals and wings may be edged with a narrow crocheted edge, double fluting in a different color, or another type edging. The flower stems are outline stitch. The tops of some of the buds are wheat stitch, with small dots at the top, and some of them may be edged with tatting. Sunbonnet Quilt original design by Luacine S. Clark Drawings and music in book by Luacine C. Fox; lyrics by Luacine S. Clark od QUILTING—OLD AS ANCIENT YESTERDAY—NEW AS TODAY 4 Petals, Stars, And Butterflies— Quality Quilts By Ann Campbell Butler Ann Campbell Butler, Springville, Utah, has made more than a hundred quilts, artistic in design and beautifully stitched. She is a specialist at making baby quilts, such as the one in the upper right-hand corner of the picture. Royal Hawaiian Coat-of-Arms Quilt This lovely quilt in rich and radiant 'color was made by the Relief Society sisters of Honolulu, Hawaii, and was presented to Colonel Elmer G.. Thomas by one of his reserve officer candidates. Colonel Thomas presented the quilt to the General Board of Relief Society for display in the Relief Society Building, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Hal Rumel 4 Ella C. Winder With Her Colorful Quilts Ella C. Winder, Idaho Falls Nineteenth Ward, has served as Relief Society quilting chairman for several years, and has instructed many women who have become expert quilters. 207 Hal Rumel New Zealand Historical Quilt Quilt Owned by Elva T. Cowley The blackbird and yellow flowers represent the birds and flowers of New Zealand. The central figure is the chief. The woman (upper right) is standing in front of her home. The woman in the lower right-hand corner is doing the poi dance, with a poi ball in her hand. The other woman has a woven basket full of food which she is lowering into a steam-filled pit. She wears around her neck the '"'Tiki,'' a charm which is supposed to produce fertility in women. The man (top of picture) is crouched ready to hunt. 208 Quilting—Old As Ancient Yesterday—New As Today (continued from page 203) The origin of quilting is lost in the antiquities. Sometime, somewhere, someone devised a method of keeping loved ones warm by padding their clothing and bedding. The padding had to be kept in place, so small, exact stitches were used. In its earlier uses the quilt was made thick and, sometimes, used as a mattress. The knights of old wore a stitched wadded lining under their suits of armor. When made stout and closely padded, it was also used as a substitute for armor. The word quilt comes into English from the old French cuilte. This is derived from the Latin culcitra, a stuffed mattress or cushion, which became coutre pointe in French, and was corrupted to counterpoint in English, which was in turn changed to counterpane. Thus, ''counterpane,' a coverlet for a bed, and ''quilt'' are, by origin, the same word. The art of quilting was not confined to one people, one country, or even one continent. Its use in oriental countries has been prevalent since ancient times. Museums displaying the artifacts of former days have classic examples of quilting from many different lands. What began as, perhaps, merely utilitarian became beautiful as well. Talented women with a creative flair produced articles of great beauty and worth. Quilts were and still are challenging to the most intricate aspects of needlework art. The matchless artistry of some quilts has lasting appeal. The types and kinds of quilting are many and varied. Patchwork quilting is distinctly American, pioneer in spirit, illustrating the ingenuity of those who could bring beauty and comfort from the merest scraps of material. Thrift and whimsy are present in this form of the quiltmaker's art. Frequently, these quilts were almost a family history, with bits and pieces of clothing worn at some momentous event inculcated in the design, recalling and recapturing the memories. Many patterns, such as the ''Wedding Ring'' and the various ''Star'' patterns, are still used. The skill of applique shows to best advantage on quilted articles. The quilting enhances the beauty and makes the design stand out. As an artist uses color and form, so a quilter places her materials according to color, contrast, and design. Like a painting, the skillful artisan makes a picture of stitches and cloth. Some quilts are merely tied, but charming effects are brought into being by clever new techniques. Baby quilts are particularly suited to this type of quilt-making since it is quick and easy and can be very attractive. P There is romance and sentiment attached to many quilts, and a legacy of patterns and motifs has been left to the present-day quilter. Quilts were often created to commemorate special events; a wedding, a birthday, an historical occasion, or a romance. Designs and stitches, pen and ink or painted details, color, and often the signature of the maker, tell a fascinating story. Friendship quilts were popular in the middie years of the nineteenth century. Friends would each make a block and sign their names. These blocks were assembled and quilted 209 MARCH 1966 by the group. Usually the blocks were quite different in design, fabric, and workmanship, with each a sample of the maker's distinctive style. They came to be known as ''album quilts.'' At this time quilts were often given as wedding presents. Relief Society has greatly aided in keeping the quilting art alive, in introducing new uses for quilting, and in creating new styles and using new fabrics. Few women in the world take the time to quilt, but groups of sisters in Relief Society share the joys of sisterhood and the pleasure of creating beauty as they work around a quilt. As is true of many things, handworked quilting is usually more beautiful than machine-made. May this lovely art never be lost. May Relief Society continue to have a sentimental attachment for this creative skill and introduce its fascinating aspects to all who will learn. (SO es A QUILTER Caroll Orton Once upon a special day | met a quilter sweet and gay. She taught me things that | should know— The do's and don'ts of how to sew. A grandmother she was, with fingers nimble (And | hadn't learned to use a thimble.) She seemed most adept at stitchery And someday a quilter like her | hope to be. Biographical Sketch of Lael J. Littke Lael Jj. Littke, winner of the third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, although a young woman, ts already well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, having been represented by several short stories, one of which placed second in the contest last year. ''Mink Creek, Idaho, is my home town, and will always be my beloved mountain home, although our old family farm is sold now, and my mother lives in Salt Lake City. | was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. My husband George C. Littke is an assistant professor of Government at California State College in Los Angeles, and we have a five-year-old daughter Lori who thinks kindergarten is great fun. "My main interests are my family, my Church work, including my appointment as stake Relief Society theology class leader, and as a visiting teacher. | spend a good deal of time writing, and besides a number of short stories this year, | wrote the ward MIA road show and some Relief Society skits. "Last summer, my husband, our daughter, and | enjoyed a business and pleasure automobile trip across the country. We visited old friends in New York City, where we lived for nine years, and also visited the World's Fair, a special thrill, since we moved away from New York just seven months before the fair opened. The trip increased our awe and love of this magnificent land in which we live, with its varied beauties and its wonderful, friendly people.'' 210 The Portrait Changes Dianne Whitelock @ Claire watched the car with tear-brimmed eyes as it backed slowly from the long driveway, straightened, and drove smoothly down the _ alder-lined _ street. Turning, she slipped inside the house and shut the door quietly behind her. The living room was dark except for the glow from the small light above the kitchen sink, always left on when a loved one was away. One shaft of the pale light rested gently on the old family portrait on the west wall of the contemporary living room. Claire moved towards it and regarded it thoughtfully. She had always thought it to be the perfect picture, encompassing all that was needed to compose an ideal family. Tonight, however, she looked at it through new eyes, and though the canvas remained unchanged to the eye, it seemed to lack something. Y " She noted it carefully. There was Andy — only a baby, then. Claire thought of him now, as she smiled and dried the tears that had_ slipped down her lovely cheeks — he was all boy, that was certain. As she looked at his picture it seemed incredible that within the year he would be eligible to become a deacon and hold the Priesthood. Time has flown, she admitted. Then there was Melanie — Melly, as they called her — standing there so tall in the frilly pink dress they had given her on her fifth birthday. My, what a lovely young lady she turned out to be, mused Claire, as she remembered that lately Melly seemed to have had something on her mind that she wouldn't communicate to anyone. Could it be that she has known all along, Claire questioned herself? Her heart swelled with joy even at the thought. Examining the portrait again with loving eyes, she saw her Jill standing there behind a younger version of Claire, with her hand 211 MARCH 1966 resting lightly on her mother's shoulder. There she was, newly baptized, then, with a smile on her face that glowed like the reflection of the sun in a small mirror. Claire thought of her now, Jill, the adored, the admired. She was a treasure, but, lately, her grades had: been slipping, and to Claire, who knew how much college meant to Jill, that could only mean male trouble. Pensively, she regarded the young men that Jill had dated recently. All of them were returned missionaries, she recalled gratefully, but Jonathan Mayfield seemed to surpass all the others. SHE wondered how she could think so coherently about such things after what had just happened, but she knew that it was vital, so vital. Everything had to be thought out with every consideration to everyone so that whatever would happen would be the right thing. But what if events did not turn out the right way? For a moment doubts clogged Claire's mind, but she rose above them as she looked at the portrait once more — into -his face. Her John had been so young then. How withered he had looked, she recalled, when he had passed away only a few years after they had all posed so eagerly for the photographer. She had known that he hadn't much time to live, but it seemed it had come too soon, too soon. Regarding him, who had been absent so long from their midst, she spoke softly, saying, ''You know what is in my heart tonight, and I'm certain that you understand, my darling, and are very happy for me. This is a good thing that has happened, and it 212 must turn out right, it simply must!'' She looked at his boyish face as if she expected him to nod his head. Realizing what she was doing, she quickly turned away and made her way to check on the children and collect her thoughts. Turning on the hall light, she ascended the stairs and slipped noiselessly into Andy's room. It took a moment to accustom herself to the darkness. She looked lovingly towards Andy's bed, and her heart contracted with fear. His bed was empty! Her body began to shake, but her voice remained calm as she called him quietly. But no answer came. She rushed to the bed, hoping that he had simply fallen out of bed; but he was not on the floor, as so often she had found him. Claire put her hand to her soft hair and prayed silently for help. Still praying, she hurried down the hall to Melly's room and found the door slightly ajar. Opening it quickly to avoid the creaking that usually awoke the light-sleeping Melly, she blinked her eyes to season them to the cool darkness. She glanced at Melly's bed and saw a solitary figure sprawled out on the ivory chenille bedspread—but it was not Melly. As she moved closer, she saw that it was Andy with his Little League cap slightly on his head. Adjacent to the bed was Melly, curled up in the same cushioned chair that Claire had used as a child. She slipped to their side and smiled in grateful relief. Melly looked like an angel personified with her long auburn locks that flowed around her face and halfway down to the floor. "Asleep," sighed Claire. "Thank heavens they're all right." She turned to go back to prepare the bed in Andy's room when she heard a faint whisper. Wheeling around, she questioned, "Who is it?" "Tt's me, Mom."' "TI thought you were asleep, Melly." "Not really. I was waiting for you to come home." She yawned. "Why, dear?" "Oh, just because I spent till midnight convincing Andy that he wanted Professor Seth for a father, and I wanted to know what your answer was so I'll know if what I went through was in vain or not." She yawned again, but she also had a pixie grin on her face. So she really did know, thought Claire. But it still took a moment for the intense meaning of Melly's words to come clear in her mind. When she _ finally realized what had just been said, she stood there motionless, not having the words to express her joy. "Mother, say something. Surely he asked you tonight?. He promised me he would!" By this time, Melly was sitting up with an anxious look on her shadowed face. "Oh, darling," smiled Claire, as she moved to her and gave her a short hug and kiss, "of course he did; but I didn't know you knew! I had to tell him that I would have to think over his kind offer, because it wouldn't be for just myself that I would be making the decision. It would have to be for all four of us." "But you love him, don't you, Mom?" Claire looked out of the window and waited a moment before THE PORTRAIT CHANGES answering her daughter — ''Very much, dear." 'Well, that's great, Mom!" She pulled her feet under her and clasped them with her hands. "That's three down and one to go!" "Shh, not so loud, dear. Here, let's go into Andy's room for a moment and then you can tell me all that I am very anxious to know." She literally pulled the nightgowned girl with her down the hall. Melly, now wide awake, could hardly wait to deliver her news. "Oh, Mother, you remember that day a week ago when I told you that Professor Seth came, and you were at Little League with Andy?" Claire nodded automatically. "Well, when he found out that you weren't here, he looked so disappointed that I invited him in to talk to me while I fixed dinner. Boy, did we have a great talk! He told me about some of the funny people in his classes, and then he mentioned that he taught you in one of his classes once. I didn't know that you had been his student!"' "Not many people do, dear. That was a long time ago, during my second year in college, I believe." "But he remembered you, Mom. And was he ever glad to find that you were in his ward when he moved here to teach a year ago. Since we have so many wards here, he said that it was 'most amazing' that he should come to ours. Being the romantic soul I am, I told him that it must have been fate! He laughed at that!' Her voice bubbled. 213 MARCH 1966 "T'll bet he did," smiled Claire, and pictured Seth Howard laughing. "Well, it was then and there that I decided that he would make somebody a very good husband, and why shouldn't it be you? Also, he wouldn't make such a bad father, and why not mine? After all, a girl needs a father, don't you think? So, we had a nice talk, I fed him, and finally we decided that he should ask you!" "Surely you didn't suggest it, Melly?" demanded Claire, only half-horrified at the idea, and feeling years of pressure being removed. "Certainly not! Well, not entirely, anyway! So, when he came tonight, he gave me a wink before you left. That was to be our signal — it was then that I knew it would be tonight. Then I got poor Andy in my room and let him talk himself into wanting a new father. I even got out my book of names to show him that Seth meant the appointed. I told him it meant that he was appointed to take care of us." She beamed. "He could hardly argue with that. Of course, I looked it up ahead of time — Jill told me to." "Jill knows, then, Melly?" Claire's voice was anxious, and Melly sensed it. "Yes, Mom." "Dear, what did she say about it? It's very important that I know." "Yes Il know. Well, Mom, she likes Professor Seth immensely, but she just doesn't think that at her age she could adjust to having an older man in the house." She said it all very fast then looked up at her mother 214 with large questioning eyes. "Is everything all right, Mom?" "Of course, dear. Everything will turn out for the best. It always does, you know."' She said it with more optimism than she felt, however. Hugging her daughter tightly, she renounced the fear that crept into her heart. I won't let this dishearten me, she thought. We've been alone too long. "Come on, honey, you sleep in Andy's clean bed, and I'll slip a cover. " The sound of a car in the driveway interrupted her words. "You stay here, Melly, and I'll go see who it is."' Halting at the door, she turned and added, ''Perhaps you can get some sleep, dear," although she knew that if Melly felt at all as she did, sleep was out of the question. The front room windows. She had recognized the sound of the small foreign automobile and was not surprised to see Jill walking arm in arm with Jonathan Mayfield, when she ventured a peek. Claire could hear bits of their animated conversation, and it was not hard to tell that they were happy. She smiled. Jonathan was so fine. Moving back from the door, she prepared herself to wait a moment before she would see Jill emerge. She was caught off guard, however, for the door immediately opened and two figures came in from the pleasant night air. Claire braced herself switched on a lamp. "Oh, Mom, you scared me," Jill exclaimed, holding tight to her companion's hand. "Sorry, dear," Claire smiled. "T've just been waiting up for you." "Thanks, Mom. You're really a dear."" Turning to Jonathan, she added, ''Little things like that are sure signs of love. Let's always remember that." Claire noticed. The tender glance between them, and the way he squeezed her hand. She held her breath. "Mom, there's something that I would love to tell you...." "JT have something that I need to tell you, too." "Yes, Mom?" "Melly told you about Professor Seth, didn't she?" "Of course, Mom, and it made me so very, very happy. And that is why it is so important that we tell you what we believe to be something of a miracle. Rather, Jon will tell you how it came about. Go ahead, dear.'"' Her eyes sparkled. Claire was startled at hearing Jill use a term of endearment. She looked earnestly at Jonathan standing there beside Jill, so tall and protecting. "Mrs. Harrison, I think Jill told you that I applied for that special fellowship back. East. Well, today I received my letter of acceptance, so I'll be going back to Boston in August. But I began to think about not seeing Jill for, perhaps two years or so, and I decided, without much hesitation, that our relationship had and THE PORTRAIT CHANGES become too special to sever." "TI feel the same way, Mom," Jill added with feeling. '""So I asked her tonight if she would be willing to go back there with me." "And I could hardly say 'no' could I, Mom, especially since I realized that I am so very much in love with him." Claire started to speak, but Jonathan spoke up vehemently, '"'We hope that we can marry a little while before we have to leave."" He took Claire's hands. "In the temple, of course." Claire felt the tears coming, and she didn't want to display them, so she turned. Jill put her hand on her mother's shoulder. The portrait on the wall flashed into Claire's mind, and she recalled quickly how things had changed since Jill's slender hand had first been placed on her shoulder. Time had passed. This was a new Jill. A more radiant Jill, who had finally found her place in life. And this was a new Claire. A wiser, lovelier Claire, who knew now what she would do. She turned and said, "We'd better have a new family picture taken before you two leave. The other one's out of date, don't you think?" They saw her tears but ignored them in their joy. Claire knew they were there, too, but in her great happiness, she ignored them, too, and was not ashamed. "I think I'll call Seth," she said. "I think he'd like to share our news." They nodded with quiet, radiant smiles as she took their hands for a moment. Then they watched her, as she walked quickly to the phone. 215 R Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit to our isolated home might be of interest to some of the readers of the Exponent, I forward the following. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the close of our morning services. Her design was to reach here in time for our meeting, but on account of the illness of one of the party she was detained. Her attendants consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd, and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants, all bearing some big title pertaining to the palace household, such as cup bearer, chambermaid, steward, etc. She was making a tour around the Island for pleasure, and in the interest of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Relief Society). We bade them welcome in an easy manner, leaving out, no doubt, many of the court titles usually applied to people holding such positions, which appeared to have the effect of making them feel at home. At one o'clock P. M., a messenger arrived to tell Her Majesty the people were assembled, ready to receive her and hear her instructions. We all walked to the meetinghouse which was filled to overflowing, anxiously waiting her arrival; as she entered, the. People arose to their feet, the 216 Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands July 6, 1878 Jane Elizabeth Molen Copy of a letter published in the Woman's Exponent, August 15,1878 choir singing a song of welcome composed for the occasion. The house was nicely decorated with evergreens, with appropriate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful crown composed of ferns just over Her Majesty's seat. The meeting being opened, she arose and read her speech, which was short but to the point, urging the people to continue in the good work of administering to the afflicted and destitute; gave some good advice in regard to the management of the society, disbursements of means, etc. Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity, union and contentment of the people here; thought much credit was due to the foreign elders; after which Elders Molen and Richards, occupied a few minutes each, in support of the Queen's instructions, eulogized her in her work of charity among the people. After returning to the house the natives were permitted to shake hands with Her Majesty and say "aloha.'"' Many of the older ones who had not entirely forgotten their ancient habits of showing deference to their nobles, approached her on their knees, or with heads almost bowed to the ground; while the more enlightened ones only showed due respect. This over, we all (the Queen's party and members of the Mission) sat down to the tables and partook of a plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a nice looking woman, very affable and kind, but not loquacious. Her sister Pooloku is more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a good joke and quite as ready to take as give one. Miss Pitman, who has traveled considerably in_ the United States, is well informed and quite a talker; she visited Salt Lake City not long ago, and is full of praise and admiration of that place and the people. By previous invitation, they were the guests of Brother Kaleohano, where they repaired in the evening. They felt so much at home their stay was prolonged two days. The natives flocked around them by the hundreds, and did all in their power to VISIT OF QUEEN KAPIOLANI make them comfortable. We rode up in the mountains with them, gathered ferns, and lunched under the boughs of the evergreen trees, by the side of the beautiful cool stream of water that sinks long before it reaches the parched fields below.... The Relief Society held their third Annual Festival meeting today, which was really a credit to our native sisters; they were all dressed in white and made a grand appearance in the procession. They seemed to be filled with the spirit of the gospel, and from their own earnings they feasted some two hundred persons, which is no small matter these hard times; they have done much towards administering to the poor and needy of this place.... Your sister, J. E. Molen RETURNING MARCH Elizabeth Cottam Walker The waning winter winds that bring the scent Of all forgotten springs in an icy crest, Awaken in me haunting moods that, blent With memories, stir me from winter rest. Now on the live hearth coals | place a log Of applewood | garnered for this day, Watch flame through gray smoke, billowing like fog, Sun-splashed and gleaming as it fades away. My heart grows eager in the apple smoke As in its pungency | seem to smell Remembered perfume of the petaled cloak Of blossoms—prelude to the apple-swell. Though waning winter winds with ice are sowed, My heart goes Apriling along the road. 217 Winnifred C. Jardine @ List-making has always been an important activity of my life. For me it clarifies thinking and streamlines actions: which jobs to do first; how to organize errands for greatest efficiency; whom and what to include on my Christmas gift list; a plan for preparing a company dinner; how to spend my money., As a result of these many years of list-making, I've developed a priority list for my life. This has never before been put down on paper by me and yet has been referred to so often that it has become crystal clear in my mind. I advert to it especially when making decisions—and even more important, in sticking with those decisions.: This priority list has only four items, involving four specific values in the order of their importance to me: 1. Spiritual 2. Intellectual 3. Cultural 4. Material There can be no question about the number one priority, for we are told most emphatically in the Sermon on the Mount: "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." This is the single greatest guide 218 any of us can have for making choices in our lives. Being human, we all stray from this guideline too often, and each time must learn anew that it is truly the iron rod of life. The gaining of knowledge as the number two priority has to be near the top for a people who believe that the glory of God is intelligence and that a man can be saved no faster than he gains knowledge. '"'Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life,"' we are told in Doctrine & Covenants 130:18-19, "it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." However, the gaining of knowledge must go hand-in-hand with seeking first the kingdom of God, in order that our knowledge be converted to intelligence and wisdom. For some, the gaining of knowledge has taken top priority even over the matter of spiritual growth, and, for them, their enlightenment becomes distorted. Jacob wrote of such a thing when he said (2 Nephi 9:28-29): "... O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish. But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God." The wise increase of knowledge is more than a matter of intellect; it is also an attitude. When accompanied by humility and a love of God, it becomes a great instrument for good upon the earth, and a joy, we are told, in the life hereafter. Third on my priority list are the cultural things of life—and the development and enjoyment of talents, good music, drama and dance, painting and drawing and sculpture, fine poetry and prose, delicate handwork and skilled craftsmanship. I think often about the parable of the talents and choose to interpret it literally as we understand the word talent—the natural endowments we each possess. It's a responsibility and a privilege to seek out and enrich the talents we possess and to enjoy the fruits of the talents of others. Again, however, there are those who place this first on their priority lists, forgetting to temper it with the refinement and humility and virtue that come with spiritual growth. Taken out of its proper place, this value can become twisted and _ill-proportioned and can even become a vehicle for evil. Last of all on my list of priorities come the material things of life, a discipline difficult to stay with in this day of wealth and materialism. The above-menMY PRIORITY LIST tioned parable of the talents, but giving the word "talent" the Hebrew meaning of money value, could be used to support the seeking of material goods. And yet more strongly comes again the counsel delivered in the Sermon on the Mount: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor, steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Everyone would like worldly wealth—new cars, bigger homes, beautiful clothes, and plentiful food. And there are good and fine people who have attained them. But these things must be fitted into their proper place, be sought only in their proper time, and be valued only in proper relation to other greater values. When we have reached the ends of our lives upon this earth and turn back to reckon with all we have done, the joy and delight of our accomplishments will li, I feel, in direct proportion to this priority list. Our truly spiritual achievements will bring us the greatest joy; the knowledge we have gained in righteousness will come close on its heels; the richness of living through the enjoyment of beautiful work and the development of our own talents will surely bring a warm glow of gratification. But at this point in our lives it's quite likely that any material progress we may have made will deliver little or no sense of satisfaction. The mere possession of material goods will have been its own reward. 219 & i 'WE a Ue Chapter 3 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes that, in spite of many material blessings enjoyed by the family, there is a need for spirituality and for religious training. Rex agrees to permit Jennie and the children to become active in the Church for a trial period of one year. 220 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart w In the days that passed, Jennie would think ruefully of the pictures she had conjured up that night. She saw herself and the children sitting demurely in Sunday School or sacrament meeting and being good. Somehow, their quiet sitting was to project them into a problemless world. It was a nice dream but had no basis in fact. On the following Monday evening, the bishop and a counselor called to ask her to take over _ the Trekker class in Primary. Rex, who was courteous and curious, grinned at her over the bishop's head. In his grin was amusement and challenge. "T would be very happy to take the Trekker class," said Jennie, her chin high. "Trickers?"' Rex teased her in the days that followed. "Tricker Treckers"' was his favorite. Jennie wasn't to start her teaching until a week from Wednesday; but she took Lance, Sabra, and Lora over to enroll them. The first snow of the year had fallen. The ground showed bleakly through the thin layer of white. Muddy weedy forts were everywhere present. Jennie made her way into the meetinghouse, deposited her children in the chapel among the various teachers, and went blithely off to do her grocery shopping. She carried with her the idyllic picture of all the angelic faces of the children, uplifted, singing the "Crusader's Hymn". It warmed her just to think about them. Ah, Dad, and you would be snowmen and its mark.. So pleased with all of it, she thought, your grandchildren so neatly scrubbed and _ starched, singing with the rest of them. When she returned later to take them home, the chapel was empty. She went in search of the various classrooms where the children might be detained. Walking softly down a long, tiled corridor, she was halted by the sound of hysterical weeping. A grown woman, by the sound of it. "It's bad enough," the voice was crying, "to try to teach them above their noise... But to be snowballed after class!" Jennie stopped short, an ominous foreboding taking place of her happy anticipation. There was another voice, the Primary president's probably, in soft, dismayed concern. Jennie went slowly down the corridor. She ran head on into Sister Phillips, the president, who was coming slowly down an intersecting hallway. Jennie looked questioningly into the weary, gentle face. Sister Phillips bit her lip. "Was she...?" Jennie hesitated, "was it the Trekker class who snowballed her?" "I'm afraid so,' said Sister Phillips. She straightened the _armful of flannel-board figures. "Sometimes small boys can't tell the difference between a teacher and one of themselves... Some- _ times the snowball goes beyond. And sometimes," she looked Jennie directly in the eye, "sometimes they do it on _ purpose."' Jennie swallowed. "I just wondered," she said, angry at herself for not resigning here and now. Sister Phillips did not plead. "Tf it were easy to be a teacher, WHEAT FOR THE WISE anyone could do it. You have well-behaved children, Sister Starr. It must have taken training." WENNIE lowered her head. "It's easy to train someone you love."' She held back the words. She was already filled with doubt and antagonism. She had a quick temper. With one's own children, there was always the final parental prerogative of a swift punishment, a banishment to the bathroom... "and don't come out untilyou've changed your disposition!" But with a stranger's children? How did one begin? She said it aloud. ""How do you enforce discipline?" "We love them and_ teach them," said Sister Phillips quietly, "and then wait for the teaching to grow." She rearranged the flannel-board figures. She's waiting for me to say I've changed my mind, Jennie thought. She's expecting me to renege. It's my hair. I look frivolous. She took a deep breath. "T'll do my very best."' "Thank you," said Sister Phillips and let out an explosive breath of relief. They laughed in mutual understanding. I love her, Jennie decided. I really do. The next Wednesday, Jennie came armed with a lesson she had practiced every day, visual aids in precise order, and a stern set to her chin. She sat with the Trekkers on the next to the last row. The Trekkers were ten. They were squirmy; they had come lately from school; and the smell of peanut butter and gymnasium and sneakers made Jennie dizzy. The red-haired boy, by whom 22) MARCH 1966 she sat, squirmed and twisted, dismayed at finding himself in such close proximity to authority. Jennie smiled at him in what she hoped was a friendly way, but he studied her lifted cheek muscles without enthusiasm. His companions eyed her covertly. Their down-turned thumbs and whispered groans did not reassure her. DuRING singing practice, she confiscated one hamster and a sling shot. She put the hamster in her purse, hoping it would have air enough, and the sling shot in her coat pocket. When they marched to their classes, she marched behind them. The boys were fighting over the chairs. Everyone wanted to sit on the back row. Jennie began with the flannelboard. "You didn't call the _ roll," said the red-haired boy sternly. "You're supposed to call our names first." Jennie, before she realized her mistake, dropped the flannelboard and picked up the roll book. After a moment she realized that the boys were answering to any name they chose. The lesson could not be heard above the din. Jennie labored in the jungle of their laughter and their tumult. She tried to bring the pioneers through the thick grasses of their unconcern and felt as if she, alone, had brought the entire covered-wagon contingent across the plains. It ended at last. She retrieved the red-haired boy's hamster from her purse and the sling from her pocket. She said the closing prayer herself, and then the class leaped out from the room like 222 grasshoppers from a_ burning field. Jennie stood alone in _ the empty classroom, impregnated now with the boy smell of peanut butter, sneaker, and gym. She picked up her things and went in search of Sister Phillips. Sister Phillips was sitting alone in the chapel. She was on the front row, and she looked up as Jennie approached her. Does she have to look that way? Jennie thought. Does she have to look brave and alone and sort of marching-along-army waiting for the deserters to catch up? "How did it go?" Sister Phillips asked softly. "Just fine," Jennie found herself saying brightly. "But I think next week I'll try a slightly different approach." "You are free to experiment," said Sister Phillips and smiled. She put her hand in her pocket and pulled out a wriggling furry object. "I think it is Billy's other hamster. I thought he had but the one. Or I should most certainly have examined him further." "T didn't mind," said Jennie, 'not the hamster." Dinner that night, was also an ordeal. Rex had come home in a joyful mood. "How about a movie?" She leaned on the counter. "Look... If I can get through this next hour without folding, I'll be grateful." He whistled. "That bad, eh?" "It's just because I'm no teacher," she said defensively. He shrugged. "Throw it back to them. You don't have to do i" He eyed her questioningly. "I i Toses.. Met Lorna on the street today. She said you've had to give up the club to do this Primary bit." Sabra came floating in. "I have made a new dance," she said. "Watch me." She danced about the kitchen in leaps and sallies and exquisite turnings that brought Jennie's heart to her throat. "What is it?" Jennie asked. "Tt's my thought of the pioneer ' women," said Sabra.... "Now this part is Nauvoo see I am _ low and sorrowing... And now I am burying my little brother and now I am leaping on the plains because it is spring. " and now I see the Valley and at first I am sorry, because it is so -empty but then I know what it will be soon... All filled with. So I plant and all covered with fields of wheat _ so I sow and I sing because I am happy." Jennie turned back to the oven and the broiling steaks. I'm definitely no teacher, she thought, WHEAT FOR THE WISE not one of my boys went home thinking about pioneers. They probably don't remember a word I said. "Do you like your teacher?" she asked Sabra. "Oh, yes." Then Sabra came close and whispered in her light voice, "I'll fast for you next Wednesday. I truly will. We learned about fasting today. You go without food and water. And get what you ask for." "Tt isn't so simple," Jennie cried in protest. "Maybe it is,'R said Sabra with a sideways glance. ""We don't know yet but maybe it is." Sabra went out of the kitchen in her quiet, preoccupied way. "She's not like anyone I ever knew," Rex said, "sometimes she doesn't seem real." Jennie had the same feeling, as if Sabra knew things of which the rest of them were completely unaware. Nor was dinner a happy affair. They sat down to the steaks which were overdone, to the hastily prepared salad, and the frozen vegetables, which Rex frowned upon. He said, "The stock market has been behaving like a onearmed paper hanger with hives." He began to eat his steak. Lance looked at him curiously, "How come we don't bless the food in our house... Like other people?"' There was a long silence. Jennie could feel Rex counting to ten. She watched his flush subside. She did not answer Lance, not knowing how. But Rex glared at his son. "If you're so eager to have us do it, go ahead."' 223 MARCH 1966 Lance said stubbornly, "TI will. They showed us how in Pnimary." He made a brief thanksgiving for the food and dug into his potato. ""We sure should have done that before."' ""Yes,'"' said Lora emphatically, "we sure should have." Jennie touched Rex's hand. She felt him relax. He met her eye to eye. "One year," he said through his teeth, "one small year." Bur Jennie wondered if he would be able to take even that one year. It was as if she had unwittingly brought into the house a radioactive stone and everyone around was beginning to react furiously. The house seemed steaming with new ideas and demands. But when the children were in bed, she lit the fire in the fireplace in the family room. She made a cold steak sandwich for Rex and poured a glass of milk. He hadn't eaten much dinner. She took them in to him and Rex turned off the television and sat back to eat. Jennie said cautiously, "It isn't the end of the world to say a blessing on the food.... Lots of people do." "It's not that,' Rex admitted. "T don't mind blessing the food. It just gets me that my son brings it up in that way." She sat back on the hassock and considered. "It made me feel strange, too," she said, "'and hostile to the idea. I wonder if it makes us feel guilty?" Rex laughed and took another 224 bite of his sandwich. "I rather think that's it. At least we're in the parade. All parents, in our day, are made to feel guilty about something or other. Writers stay up nights to think up new ways to keep us swimming in this gloomy soup." Jennie laughed, too, but without mirth. "If you have it bad, you ought to be a mother. To be a mother nowadays is to have a bounty on your head." Rex stretched. "Right. Some people use the word mother like — doctors use the term virus." Jennie filched one of his potato chips. She pulled a cushion from the couch to the floor and leaned against his knee. "Do you believe in God?" "Et tu? Of course, I do." ''Well then, we should thank him for our food. Right?" "Right." She cradled his palm against her cheek. "Well, then, we have been guilty." He said soberly, ''Whatever church we join we'll bless the food." She sat up sharply. What do you mean?" He looked at her with stern, considering eyes. ''My family is the most important thing in my life. I'm not going to let them become involved in anything on someone else's say-so. I'm going to investigate every religion on the face of the earth. When I find one that is right to me that's it." She had no words for argument. They sat in silence watching the dying fire. (To be continued) "Rex? ON THE MOUNTAIN Melba S. Payne In my youth | well remember, When there was no need to roam, How | thought the world revolved Around my peaceful valley home. Close beside gigantic mountains, Solid grandeur pointing high; Bearing stately pines and aspens Etched against the eastern sky. "On the mountains,'' words familiar, Part of living in our town; Going up for coal or cattle, Going up, or coming down. Before the '"'Powered Buggies' found us, Teams of horses, plodding slow, Delivered us in rumbling wagons Wherever we should choose to go. To the dairy in the glen, Through the toll gate by the creek, Stopping by the Beaver Dam To gaze upon a mountain peak. Then to find our white-topped sheep camp Nestled in the shade of trees. Sour-dough bread and fresh, fried mutton— A cheerful herder cooked us these. These are memories of my mountains Close beside my valley home, And | still go on the mountains x When | feel a need to roam. TODAY IS MINE Helen A. Nielsen Today is here. It is mine to enjoy. This is my most recent gift from a loving Father, and I shall cherish it. Today there may be rain or sunshine; there may be clouds or snow and wind, but, in this day, there are twenty-four hours for me to beautify or tarnish as I see fit. Perhaps I have mortgaged much of this day for washing, ironing, cleaning, and performing tasks. Although my hands are busy, my thoughts need not stay in a pan of soapsuds. I have twenty-four hours in which to think beautiful and constructive thoughts, or I can grovel in self-pity or nourish stray bits of resentment left over from some unhappy moment. Dear God, may I spend this day as I should. May I have a song in my heart, and may I know the exhilaration of learning something new. May I go the extra mile to cheer and to serve. May I know the joy of some challenge met and conquered. May I make - this a star-studded day embellished with the good and the beautiful. May the tomorrows be happier and more meaningful because of the things I put into these hours. May I account proudly to my Maker for each second of this day. And may I acknowledge thee, O God, as the Creator of all that is good. 225 \FROM THE FIELD; Relief Society Activities Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward "Near and Far'' Bazaar November 5, 1965 Left to right: Leatha Carson, stake theology class leader; Margaret Jacobs. Ward theology class leader; Mavis Hamilton, Second Counselor, Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward Relief Society. Marvel A. Smith, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of 'Near and Far' was developed in the bazaar, with practically all of the ward members participating in the fun. Booths were decorated, and the sisters were costumed to represent the following countries: Ireland (for sale of linens and gifts); France (beauty needs and flower arrangements); Germany (the candy shop); Holland (the bakery, with homemade cakes, pies, bread, and cookies); Japan (the fish pond, which was a favorite with the children); Mexico (the tables were decorated to represent this country, and tamales, meat pies. Chili, hot dogs, hamburgers, and steamed puddings were sold). "Girls in different native costumes entertained with dances on the stage every fifteen minutes. A nursery was maintained and cartoons were shown." Officers of the Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward Relief Society are: LaPreal Lundgren, President; Dora Hales, First Counselor; Mavis Hamilton, Second Counselor; and Janet Parry, Secretary-Treasurer. Bountiful South Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "Our Society In Song" September 24, 1965 Eulala H. Butters, President, Bountiful South Stake Relief Society, reports: "A beautiful evening of song was presented, with the theme '... And the night will be filled with the sound of music, and your cares will float away.' Barbara Peterson was the director, with Ruth Christensen and Carolyn Talbot as accompanists. The script for the concert was written by Eleanor Hoaglund, with Elaine McKay as narrator. The combined voices of sixty-five women of our ten-ward stake presented this lovely program as a special tribute to the visiting teachers, their husbands, and friends. It was the culmination of an afternoon of a 'Festival of Arts' in which each of the wards depicted in display, arts and crafts, and all types of handiwork. Coy Tyson, stake work meeting leader, and Edith Sharp, Work Counselor, were in charge of this affair. "After the program everyone was invited into the cultural hall for refreshments. We were delighted with the success of this lovely day, and with the attendance of over 500 people." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. GERMAN vt Shop oe MARCH 1966 North Idaho Falls Stake (idaho) Relief Society Display Featured at Opening Social September 2, 1965 May Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "A presentation 'The Quest' was written and produced by social science class leader Kathryn K. Price, chorister Esther C. Mathews, and Magazine representative Nellie C. Bate. The cast included: Gayle W. Farr, Rosaline Gold, Eliza Teeples, and LaDean R. Marshall. The dramatization related the experiences of a Relief Society president and an inactive sister. Sister Gold, who had portrayed the inactive sister, later bore her own testimony as to how she had joined the Church through activity in Relief Society. Beautiful organ music was played throughout the presentation by organist Sylvia H. Thompson. Sister Thompson and Marjorie Wood were in charge of the display, which featured a mannequin holding gold ribbons which extended to each of the seven small tables. '* 'Self-fulfillment Through Relief Society,' which was the theme of our opening social, will continue to be stressed by short talks and testimonies at leadership meetings throughout the year, as we work toward our goal: to bring the blessings of Relief Society into the lives of all the sisters in our stake." Lost River Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Patriotic Concert and Flower Show August 17, 1965 Front row, at right, in black dress: chorister Loretta Jensen; at Sister Jensen's right: Marilyn King, organist. Second row, left to right: Mary B. Davies, President; Leona Anderson, First Counselor; Mary W. Kotter, Second Counselor. Sister Davies reports that the Singing Mothers of Lost River Stake also sang at two sessions of stake conference in May 1965. Ricks College Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Officers at "Show and Share'"' Christmas Fair, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Deanne Moore, organist; Jessie P. Morrell, First Counselor; Lisle L. Andrus, President; Leta Skoy, Second Counselor; Elsie R. Lewis, Secretary. Back row, standing, left to right: Lasca Stucki, social science class leader; Eunice Williams, Magazine representative; Ruth Biddulph, literature class leader; Pamela Lehto, chorister; Lorna Tibbits, work meeting leader; Dorothy McIntyre; Evelyn Graham, theology class leader; Phyllis Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Andrus reports that the officers and members of the newly organized Ricks College Stake are enthusiastic about Relief Society work. Their "Show and Share" Christmas Fair was a well-planned and successful event. The traditional Christmas colors red and green were carried out in the decorations. The "Christmas Rose" tree was covered with roses and red lights. Displays were presented by each of the wards, including toys, cookery, aprons, table, settings, gift wrapping, inexpensive gifts, and stories for Christmas. Posters made by the stake board portrayed the work done in each department of Relief Society. A program was presented twice during the afternoon, consisting of Christmas music by the Singing Sisters, a trio, and a reading. The refreshment tables were decorated with glass figurines, and a bowl of cranberry punch was placed at each end of the tables. Eight individual tables, serving four each, were covered with green net over a green cloth, and centered with a candle circled by roses. Each guest was presented with a booklet containing the program, recipes, and directions for making the articles displayed. 228 MARCH 1966 Argentine Mission Relief Society Seminar Caseros, Argentina, October 23, 1965 Left to right: Maria Abera, Education Counselor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nalida Turner, Secretary-Treasurer; Mafalda Guinaldo, Work Counselor; Herta Mellor, President, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nadia Mirosnikov, Secretary-Treasurer, Central District; Nedra H. Strong, Supervisor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Elena Mancini, President, LaPlata District; Angela Guiliani, President, Buenos Aires District; Estella Angelora, Education Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Maria Flores, Work Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Federico Wolgast, Councilman, LaPlata District; Carmen Cuneo, Secretary-Treasurer, Buenos Aires District. Sister Strong reports: ""The seminar was held for the purpose of presenting the program for the summer work meetings. The seminar was prepared by the mission Relief Society board and the district boards. Present were representatives of the twenty-three branches involved. Numerous representatives of the Priesthood were present to supervise and support. ''Many demonstrations were given. Dr. Augustin Minotti, Jr. Gave a lecture and demonstration on first aid and common illnesses; Mafalda Guinaldo outlined and demonstrated the latest methods of the art of dressmaking. Nancy Briscoe demonstrated the art of making paper flowers for bazaars, children's parties, Christmas, and other festive occasions. A demonstration was given on Japanese flower arrangement. Sister Martinez from Quilmes demonstrated the making of feather flowers. Sister Strong and Elder Kraig Dahl showed how to make rolls and marshmallows. All of the demonstrations were carefully recorded, and a printed manual was given to each sister present. "The same seminar was held the following weeks in Rosario and Mar del Plata, with the women of these areas participating. Each day the sisters here in Argentina are learning to love and appreciate the great organization of Relief Society more." Calgary Stake (Alberta, Canada) Bazaar November 6, 1965 Left to right: Nedra Leavitt; Barbara Walker, luncheon chairman; Gwen Haycock, Second Counselor; Joy Lee Matheny, advertising chairman; Naida Walton, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society; Rita Holt, luncheon committee member; Ruby Hornberger, First Counselor; Hallie Logan, convenor and pricing committee chairman; Bernice Nelson, director of Singing Mothers; Mary Platt, head of cashiers; Louella Payne, decorating; Janet Merrill, sales personnel; Glenna Fowler, displays; Marion Levant, bake table. Sister Walton reports: '""The stake center was a delightful setting for the bazaar, where eleven wards and two branches combined for their first stake bazaar. Decorations for this outstanding event featured a dropped ceiling in white, dotted with ice-blue snowflakes, with overhanging winter scenes of snow-crested Christmas trees, and snowmen and skaters on an artificial rink. A winter scene done in pastels by Marion Barker completely covered the largest wall of the cultural hall, to complete the breathtaking scene. "Over 3,000 bazaar articles were attractively displayed, and included such items as kitchen aprons, children's clothing, doll clothes, toys, pillows, sleepwear, Christmas novelties, knitted articles, Christmas puddings and mincemeat, Chinese food, and homemade chocolates. The bake table was well supported and was a main feature of the bazaar. A fifty-voice Singing Mothers chorus rendered two special selections during the afternoon. A delicious luncheon was served. Over 1900 people attended the bazaar; approximately 1200 of these were nonmember friends. During the afternoon the full-time missionaries showed the film 'Man's Search for Happiness.' "The final proceeds from the bazaar were tabulated on the basis of the number of articles made by each ward. Each item was tagged, showing the name of the ward and the price of the article, then, as each article was sold, the cashier removed the tag. This information was used in the distribution of the money to the wards." 230 BAS Sa TON ARS Alaskan-Canadian Mission, Cariboo District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference Fort St. James, British Columbia, Canada October 17, 1965 Patricia Conklin, the chorister, stands at far left in the front row; Julia Gwilliam, organist, and district Relief Society president, stands second row at far right. Derhoof, and Fort St. James Branches, with members living as far apart as 231 GROWING ACCUSTOMED Kathryn Kay What happens to the magic Of the "'first times" After ''the first'' becomes simply ''once more''? What happens when the thrill of all the first times Becomes only a ''something-we-have-done-before''? Perhaps there's also magic in just placing Our steps in paths where they are used to go, An awe can come with the familiar tracing Of lips upon lips they have grown to know, Time lets a quiet smile replace light laughter. And as we go once more down ways we've known, We learn that all the times that follow after Acquire a certain magic all their own! WHILE THEY LAST Teaching Aids from BYU Education Weeks 1965 we UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE - by Ernest L. Olson Four Lectures: |. Stories Which Show the Importance of Attitude ll. Stories and Poems on Good and Evil lll. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on the Place of Suffering in Life IV. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on Suffering and on Facing Death PRICE $1.00 AND DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by Roy W. Doxey; —— _ PRICE $1.50 EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me copies of UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE Please send me copies of DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 For each publication ordered, include $.10 for postage. Enclosed is a check or money order for $ _._ --.--.-.-- Wame ccvcecsses seuuueneec 00 SREB _... Seeeeeeeneeeenneee 232 | | Lesson Department ] RNR er OS ee ge bebe Le SO aa ee 7 7 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Simplify the Job For Second Meeting, June 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for November 1966 Objective: To show how principles of work simplification can save time and contribute to personal and family satisfactions. "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God"? (D&C 88:119). INTRODUCTION Emphasized in previous discussions on creative homemaking has been the importance of organization and scheduling of housekeeping activities to fit the individual family. Attacking the specific job now becomes paramount. ANALYZE THE JOB How efficient are you? Efficiency experts have determined that often a poor housekeeper works much longer and harder than a good housekeeper because She fails to organize the job and her time. Many homemakers are inefficient and are not aware of it. Perhaps they are inefficient in a portion of a task but not in the entire procedure, or, perhaps, they "sail through" some jobs beautifully and get "bogged down" with others. How about following the pattern of business and industry and doing a' job analysis? You might discover that you can do the job better in much less time. Remember, to be more efficient also means that the job performance is consistent with your standards, your values, and goals. Do not underrate or overrate yourself. Be as objective as possible in order to discover the areas in which you can improve and those with which you should be satisfied. Directions: As you read each of the following statements, ask yourself honestly, "How does this apply to me?" The five ratings which you will use are: A-always; U-usually; O-oc- 233 MARCH 1966 casionally; S-seldom; N-never. Just before each number, write the letter that stands for the rating you can give yourself on that question. (Note to discussion leader: Copies of the Job Analysis Rating Chart could be given to each class member for individual checking, or paper could be passed out, the ratings listed on the chalkboard, and the leader could quickly read each question as the members rate themselves. A brief discussion could follow.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT JOB ANALYSIS RATING CHART (Based on the principles—eliminate, combine, rearrange, simplify) __. 1. Do you ask yourself if the job isnecessary? Example: Careful hanging and folding of laundry will eliminate some ironing. —_.. 2. Do you have a clear. Understanding of the way the job is to be done? Example: It is necessary when trying a new recipe to follow' directions exactly. It may be wise to make notes of the correct way to do a job that only needs doing once or twice a year; such as, seasonal care of clothing; protecting woolens and putting cottons away clean. This question is pertinent in instructing the family. —— 3. Do you determine if each step is necessary? Example: It may be more satisfactory to drain dishes, rather than to wipe them. —— 4. Do you combine one step with another part of the job, when feasible? Example: Lightly soiled linoleum may be cleaned and waxed in the same operation with one of the new liquid floor preparations. —— 5. Do you rearrange the order of the steps for greater efficiency? Example: "One trip bed-making'"—making the bed in one "U" pattern around the bed. ——. 6. Are you motion-minded and do you form little routines for jobs in which repetition is involved? Example: Use a sys- 234 tem in folding a pile of towels _ or in peeling a pan of potatoes. _—. 7. Do you try to use both hands _ effectively? Example: A righthanded person does. Dishes most efficiently by working from right to left. She holds the dish in her left hand, wash- _ ing it with the right, and places the dish in the dish drain to the left without changing hands. — 8. Do you try to work wit fewer smooth motions, rather than many fast, jerky motions? Example: In ironing a shirt, greater efficiency is achieved by the fewest possible strokes, making the pressure of the iron even. Fast, jerky motio put wrinkles in the shirt. —— 9. Do you try to work at a pace which is best for you and the job? Example: Too fast dusting may leave as much dust on the table as on the cloth. 10. Do you train yourself to do all there is to do at one pla at one time, or all of one stop before proceeding to the next — step? Example: While you are at the refrigerator, remove all items needed. ——ll. Do you dovetail your work? Example: While waiting for the potatoes to cook, clean up — your sink. — 12. Do you consolidate your work when possible? Example: While you are making a casserole for dinner, make an extra one for the freezer; market less often but buy for a longer period of time. __13. Do you attack a big or difficult job when you are at the peak of your energy, rather than when you are weary? Example: Put in a "tricky" hem on a dress early in the day when you are fresh, rather than after dinner. __14. Do you conserve your energy by sitting to do some tasks? Example: Sit at an adjustable ironing board while ironing; use a lap board for some types of food preparation. If you rated "always" and "usually" most of the time, you are doing well. If you rate chiefly in the "seldom" and "never" categories, a change is in order. TAKE TIME TO MAKE TIME Whenever a factory engineer attempts to help the output in less time, he first observes carefully what is being done, makes notes and asks questions. Do not be afraid to use the questioning method. Your answers should be based upon family satisfactions, of course. SUMMARY Years ago, Ellen H. Richards, one of the early pioneers of homemaking education in the public schools, admonished women to control the material things about them, leaving time and energy to make life for their families gracious, worthwhile, and enjoyable. Time is a precious commodity. Let us conserve it. TO DISCUSS Name some household tasks which you wish to do a certain LESSON DEPARTMENT way, even though they consume more time. State your reasons. (A case in point might be careful and conventional setting of the table because you feel the aesthetic satisfactions outweigh the extra work.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Check the following items and determine if they would add to your kitchen efficiency: 1. Locate equipment at point of first use rather than all like equipment in one place. A kettle requiring water would be located near the sink, its lid near the range. 2. Place supplies and small equipment within sight and reach. You may need to use step shelves, half shelves, racks on cupboard doors, and vertical dividers. 3. Locate items according to frequency of use. 4. Duplicate some items used in more than one location such as measuring cups at both sink and mixing center. Certain jobs seem to steal away your twenty-four hours a day. Select your worst offender (job), apply the questioning method, and in the succeeding weeks try to conquer the problem. MY MOTHER'S COUNTRY Christie Lund Coles. | recall her speaking of Tivoli, And the cobblestone streets where her youth ran; The forests with their spires and ferny leaves; The ocean's roaring and its foam-white span; The low, thatched roofs on cottages; Bakeries with their warm and spicy scent. | may not see this land of water, trees, But through her | keep it rich and innocent. 235 Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples Hawaiian Lei Day Tour April 23 — May 8 Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 21 New England—Canadian Fall Tour September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Jhank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25¢ for catalog and also receive our newest book "Egg Carton Party Favors" Discounts to Groups ZIMS 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 359-5821 COOK ELECTRIC ses Pots and pans stay '"'white glove"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 236 FOR A NEW STEPDAUGHTER Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn How lovely and rare And cherished the more Because of the years We did not share, And now on the threshold Of womanhood, A daughter new Is mine to enfold. Joy unforeseen— To celebrate with her The first birthday At seventeen! Plan a Murdock Tour Now! The following personally-escorted, all-expense-paid tours all include the highest quality carriers and accommodations at surprisingly low cost: 1 L. D. S. Temples Tour (Oakland, L. A., St. George, Manti) 2 Hawaii Tour 3 European Highlights 4 Temples & Lake Louise (Cardston, Idaho, Logan) 5 Scandinavian Vikings Tour 6 Hiil Cumorah Pageant Tour 7 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 8 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 9 Yellowstone, Passion Play Mt. Rushmore 10 Hawaii Tour MURDOCK TRAVEL BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Sali Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 L90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 30 —_ DESERET f(REWS PRESS Please send information on tour no. 1 ldays Leaves April 18th 12 days Leaves May 14th 21 days Leaves June 9th 12 days (bus) Leaves July 11th 21 days Leaves July 12th 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 15th 8 days (air) Leaves July 26th 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 29th 8 days Leaves August 13th 10 days Leaves September 10th Murdock Travel Inc., 14 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah SHCHHSSSSSHSOSHSSSHSHSSHSHSSHSHSESHOHSHSHSSHHEHSHOOHEHOOOCOEOESEESERS SCOSSSSSHSSEHSSEOSESSEEEEERE SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April TEMPLE TOUR April 18, 1966 HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways Canadian and New England States Tour September gio Alaska Pageant Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 382-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 237 238 NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day vou enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Also, your premiums can never be_ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your minister, lau'yer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exactly what we say it does. Then, if for any reason at all you are not 100'%, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately igre your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing. _READ YOUR AMERICAN TM ee ee an TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS | ed |} R. S. 5091 l. You receive $] = $100 cash weekly APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, | | | TAX FREE—even for life, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any AT-100 hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other = | | | { | i | insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY § | Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. | | | | I 1 1 1 | ° e Name (PLEASE PRINT). 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, santo: @Ues City except pregnancy, any act of war or military service,! County State Zip pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization Ae Date of Birth an "aie caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything ougiestiem Height Weight else vou're fully protected—at amazingly low rates! Penattetary Reiitionshin 1 also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below 3. Other benefits for loss NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY _ BIRTH DATE within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of both eves, both hands. Or both feet. Ml alale To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes(_) No) To the best of your knowledge, have you or any member above listed had medical advice or treatment, or have you or they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes (> No) /f so, please give detarls stating person affected, cause, Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pav Monthly Pay Yearly Each adult $38 19-59 pays Neither | nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and | hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions. Date: Signed: X Each adult 60-69 pays $59 Each adult 70.100 _ $79 i endear peys $780 $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Mail this application with AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., a ee BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS | 239 —_ } a 4 '; le) se 5 soo e r. "\ j # FSIS. Ts ' J 7 4 SIVUMLAALLLA 74 iA 4 Mrs. Eliza Jane Wilcox Sparks 9 Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois 100 Arcadia, California Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Delilah Larsen Mrs. Margaret Elizabeth Schutt Gordon Qgden, Utah San Francisco, California Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mrs. Hattie Bushnell Foster Mesa, Arizona Belleville, Ontario, Canada 9] Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche Of Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver Alameda, California San Diego, California Mrs. Lola Peppers Clevenger Mrs. Florence Dix Purdy einai Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor ' Salt Lake City, Utah go Mrs. Ellen England Miller Bakersfield, California Mrs. Edith Fulson Hatch 90 Woods Cross, Utah Dr. Harriet Bennett Hillings Santa Barbara, California Mrs. Seffa Anderson Davis Henefer, Utah Mrs. Matilda Sarepta Jolley Ahlstrom Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaide idaho Falls, Idaho 9 Wakefield Wortley Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, d i rince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Mrs. Elizabeth Burgener Carlile Heber, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Betty Selena Boyce Walker Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Lettie May Saunders Taylor Ferrin 93 Mrs. Mary Brockbank North Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hattie L. Merrill Funk Mrs. Caroline Holmlund Peterson Oasis, Utah Tooele, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Mrs. Nada Kay Fairview, Utah Mona, Utah Mrs. Mary Smith Mrs. Christina Fackrell Brunson Fillmore, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah 240 = recommended for P 4 x OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence S. Pinnock Here is a book that will enchant every woman. Not only does it contain many mouth-watering recipes for delicious foods, but also shows you the recipe for a happy home. This will be your month-by-month guide to more effective service to your family. SUGAR 'N SPICE by Daryl V. Hoole and Donette V. Ockey Formerly entitled "A Spoonful of Sugar" this helpful book wili provide you with much useful advice on many aspects of dealing with children. Books such as this give you new insight into your task as a mother. OM PAN 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Zz A EZ ORDER NOW Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. 84111 Enclosed is a check/money order for the total cost of my purchase; residents of Utah will include 3%% tax. Residents of Calif. Who Please send me copies of OF order through the Deseret Book FOOD AND THOUGHT h Store at 777 South Main in a: a: our ep add ct ee tax se send me copies o ' ave an account..., bi SUGAR 'N SPICE $3.95 each me. MS none ccc ccccceececcccecececeececcecesercecsecsccesessrsrecnenssestessersescereececesereceese AAreSS "o. Oo. Oocccccccceccecccceececccccecececcecccccceccceececeeegensecececssesetesececeessesssrensseessseseseeee I anna co oeneas sens ecscesecseessecesscnesseee SSS ee Se March Relief Society Will you be ready when he is? Investigate this N E WV MISSION MOUWATOR PAIN Latter-day Saint families have been advised repeatedly to build a missionary fund for their children. Yet, despite good intentions — many of us save the "put'ntake" method — we put some in; take some out, and end up about where we started. Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — soon, or mail the coupon below. Cee eeoeeeeeeeeeeereeerescesereeeresesereeeeeereseesreseseeeoRe BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. — Beneficial Life Building — Salt Lake City, Utah [] Yes, I'd like to know more about your new "Mission: Motivator" Plan. NAME Street or RED CIT'. STATE.. ZIP CODE Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Py ~ / The Beneficial Life Mission Motivator Plan makes your savings systematic and sure. It gives you these advantages: e Reminds you to save regularly. C Guarantees that the money will be available when the call comes — if the plan is fulfilled. E Has paid-up options in case the plan can't be continued. C Provides flexibility to suit your income and needs. E If Dad should not live to complete the plan we pav premium automatically. @ Pays Mission funds either in monthly: allotment checks or as a lump sum. T J ps NEFICLAL LLFE Jusuranee & Ce) ores Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Now over 600 Million dollars of Life Insurance in force.; 