The Relief Society. Magazine Volume 53 Number 2 we — ye | read The Relief Society Magazine every issue, and really enjoy it. | would think that any homemaker, whether a member of the Church or not, would appreciate receiving this little gem each month. Maybe you don't have many male readers, but perhaps you have more than you think. | know of a few besides myself who are readers and enjoy this excellent Magazine. George F. Lee Ogden, Utah It is wonderful to receive The Relief Society Magazine when | am so far away from home. It fills many hours with inspiring lessons, wonderful stories and poems. My issues circulate in many nonmember homes and are read from cover to cover. Mrs. Christa Jensen Puerto Ordaz Estado Bolivar Venezuela I enjoy everything about the Magazine, from the beautiful cover, on through the stories, poems, editorials, and lessons. It is uplifting and inspiring. | especially enjoyed President Belle S. Spafford's address ''The Blessings of Experience' in the November issue. Ann G. Ollar Irving, Texas | am lifted up by the stories and the messages found in The Relief Society Magazine, and | have a new zest for it. | am trying my best to put the Magazine into the homes, hearts, and hands of all the sisters in the branch, so that they can benefit from its beauty, truth, and love from the leaders who are all inspired from our Savior in heaven. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas | don't want to miss a single Magazine, as | save them all for future use. The recipes are wonderful, as is everything in the Magazine. It is truly wonderful. Mrs. Dot Underwood Billings, Montana ay eS SY, (Hop 2 lear aul HS 0Uf" First and foremost, let me give thanks to Mrs. C. E. Crocker, who introduced me to your periodical. | was employed by her, and I enjoy every copy of the Magazine to which she so kindly gave me ae_ subscription. The covers are really works of art, and | enjoy the lessons, although | am of another faith. Peace of mind and tranquility are the major factors which | get from all of the stories, articles, and the literature section. Mrs. Evelyn L. Niessen Oakland, California | surely do not want to miss one issue of The Relief Society Magazine. | enjoy it ever so much. As soon as it arrives, | hurry and read the continued story. Then, later, | always read it from cover to cover. My husband is serving in Viet Nam, and at times | become discouraged and lonely, and having the Magazine helps me to spend my ti usefully. It helps me to place values in their proper perspective. Mrs. Merle Craig Orem, Utah The Ward Magazine representative in one of the wards where we are trying to get the young mothers to subscribe for the Magazine and to attend the meetings, told me how much she enjoyed the Magazine. She is twenty-three and has two small children. She said one day she was quite upset, and the Magazine happened to come, so she picked it up. Suddenly she found the answer to her problem, and since then, the minute the Magazine comes she reads it. As for myself, | love the poetry. It fills my need. It is wonderful to have so many gifted sisters writing for the Magazine. South Carolina West S Charlotte, North Caro 

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 February 1966 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 84 Relief Society Administration Leadership Delbert L. Stapley 98 Self-Expression Through Music Florence Jepperson Madsen 100 One Day at the Temple Vida D. Brinton 105 Let's Conquer Heart Disease 106 Relief Society Is for All the Sisters Peggy Petersen Stephens 91 "A Time to Every Purpose" Second Prize Story Venda Castleberry 107 A Valentine for Mother Kathryn E. Franks 125 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 2 Margery S. Stewart General Features 82 From Near and Far 101 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 102 Editorial: A Valentine for the Visiting Teachers Vesta P. Crawford 104. In Memoriam—Gladys Sessions Boyer 104 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Emblem 128 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 159 This Day Will Bring Some Lovely Thing Stella Hatch 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 112 Rhubarb Reminds Me Genevieve Van Wagenen 114 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions—Part IV Rosa Shurtz 118 "Scrap Happy" Loray C. Randall 120 The Lovely Leek Elizabeth Williamson 122 Promise Nelda P. Litchfield 123 Phankuchen Janet W. Breeze 124 Sunburst and Diamonds—Many Patterns for Many Quilts Lessons tor May 135 Theology " The First Presidency—Keys of the Kingdom Roy W. Doxey 141 Visiting Teacher Message " "He That Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me..." Christine H. Robinson 143. Work Meeting " Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation) Hazel S. Cannon 145 Social Science * Two Worlds As One Alberta H. Christensen 151 Literature " Facing Death—Part II Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Temple Spires Dorothy J. Roberts Oakland, Marilyn McMeen Miller, 90; No Longer Missing, Eleanor W. Schow, 97; Night Life, Kathryn Kay, 109; In Defense of Valentines, Olive W. Burt, 109; Rain River, Clara Laster, 110; Buying a House, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 111; Against the Snow, Caroline Eyring Miner, 121; In a Secret Pool, Lael W. Hill, 142; To an ElevenYear-Old, Christie Lund Coles, 156; Dark Glen, Shirley M. Howard, 158; New Friend, Ethel Jacobson, 158. 


Relief Society Administration Leadership Elder Delbert L. Stapley of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] w I am grateful, sisters of Relief Society, for this opportunity of speaking to you in this, your annual conference. Your Presidency has given me a rather difficult assignment, and I pray what I have prepared may fit into what they had in mind and now have in mind, and that you will not go away disappointed. Relief Society is a wonderfully choice organization, presided over by dedicated, faithful women, who willingly and cooperatively work under the direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when establishing Relief Society, expressed himself as being deeply interested in its activities. He referred to the organization as a select society of virtuous women and challenged them to purge out iniquity from among them and to observe the laws of the kingdom of God. He also counseled the women constantly to practice the principles of holiness. These instructions from the Prophet give broad vision to the work of Relief Society. The purpose of the Church and its leadership is to save and bless people. If you lose this understanding of purpose in Relief Society, you have lost the true spirit of your work. I should like to paraphrase two verses from the revelation on Priesthood which I feel are apropos to Relief Society leadership. Wherefore, now let every woman learn her duty, and to act in the office in which she is appointed, in all diligence. She that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand (paraphrased from D&C 107:99, 100). This instruction and counsel significantly applies to all leadership in the Church. To learn one's duty is most important to the success of the work. How can one learn her duty if she fails to study the handbooks, manuals, Relief Society Magazines, and other excellent materials provided by Relief Society? How can Relief Society workers learn their duty by absenting themselves from preparation and_ training meetings? The effectiveness of your work equates to the presence or non-attendance of officers and teachers at all appointed meetings of the organization. Failure of board members to attend scheduled meetings causes them to lose the values and spirit which the instructions and discussions, with prayer, inspire. The purpose of officer and teacher meetings, Relief Society conventions, conferences, etc. Is to teach, train, and motivate workers to full and effective service. You cannot do your duty effectively unless you take advantage of every opportunity to improve and qualify yourselves for the stewardship of your callings to service. We have now arrived at the second step: To act in the office in which you are appointed, in all diligence. Here is the real "key to success in Relief Society work. The Lord has admonished, "Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known" (D&C 60:13). Someone has wisely said: "I admonish you to regard procrastination as poison to the soul. Be not guilty of it." How many valuable opportunities are stolen RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP by that thief procrastination? Here is a sentiment that helps one to appreciate this truth: "Lost —somewhere between _ sunrise and sunset two golden hours, each set with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is offered for they are gone forever." Now it requires less time to do a thing than it does to worry about doing it. Sisters, always be diligent in your callings. You are dealing with God's children. Help return them safely to him. Remember again, she that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand; and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand. The scope of a person's calling is as broad as his or her vision. One's vision can be enlarged by study and prayerful meditation; also by attendance at all appointed meetings, which provide leadership and teacher development. It is important to. Grasp the full significance and magnitude of one's calling. There must be imaginative and creative thinking and doing for success. Remember, also, the Lord has warned, and again I am paraphrasing: For behold it is not meet that I should command in all things; for she that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore she receiveth no reward. Verily I say, women should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as women do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (paraphrased from D&C 58:. 26-29). 85 FEBRUARY 1966 Initiative, faithfulness, and obedience are emphasized in this revelation. God has said: "... Whatever ye do according to the will of the Lord is the Lord's business" (D&C 64:29). You sisters are engaged in the Lord's service, thus fulfilling your part in the Lord's business of saving souls. Like any business, the kingdom of God requires strength of leadership in its organizations to fulfill the purposes of God for his children. The organization of the Church in this last dispensation of God's providence is perfect and should function perfectly. This condition cannot be attained without the wise choice of leaders placed in positions where their talents and abilities can serve best. In business, people are employed and placed in positions according to their proven qualifications, or they possess the potential abilities and skills which by teaching and training, will qualify them to render effective and profitable service. In the Church we cannot assume because a person is faithful and true that he or she can give a good account of his or her stewardship in any Church position. I submit that faithfulness is a necessary ingredient in the character of the individual chosen; but, regardless of how good the person is, he or she can serve far more satisfactorily and happily in the field of their native talents and endowments than elsewhere. I have great respect and faith in what the Holy Ghost can do for an individual, but I firmly believe the Holy Ghost can do far more for an individual who is called to serve in a position where his or her talents and qualifications fit them more capably. I have seen successful teachers fail when called to leadership positions. Because the teacher was successful as a teacher, the presiding officer thought the teacher could give good leadership to an organization. It is not the fault of the individual who fails under such circumstances; it is the fault of the officer who has not analyzed what the position to be filled requires in abilities and qualifications; therefore, poor judgment was used in the selection of the worker. There is always a serious question to be considered when pulling an effective teacher away from a class without having a qualified replacement to take over. That question is: What will the effect be on the class? Will they be left to drift and thus becom spiritually lost or partially so to the kingdom? The Relief Society, to do effective and successful work, must be strong in all departments of activities and service. When staffing an organization, the president should be wisely and carefully chosen and on the basis of capabilities, spirituality, and faithfulness. With the approval of the presiding officer it is her privilege and right to select counselors who possess the talents, abilities, and capabilities to complement her, so working together, they are an all-around efficient and effective team. If possible, counselors should be selected who possess the potential qualities for top leadership. The presidency, acting together, should select and recommend to the proper Priesthood authority those whom they wish to serve with them, being su that those selected are worthy and true to the faith and have the spiritual and other qualifications which fit them well for the positions to be filled. It seems to me working with people in the Church is a neverending educational process. Every organization should constantly train its workers to assure a reservoir of capable leadership and teachers to fill the too-often occurring vacancies. I believe; as never before in the Church, leaders must be good teachers and have the ability to train others, and also have the spiritual enthusiasm to motivate workers to do their best. Every person should strive diligently to measure up to his or her potential. Anything short of one's' best isn't good enough in the Lord's work. Also, anything worth doing is worth doing well. The plans and program of Relief Society, as announced by the Relief Society General Board, should be fully supported. Relief Society covers a broad field of activities so helpful and important to mothers of the Church. These activities, if interestingly conducted, will receive wide support from the sisters. Relief Society promotes social functions, literature, social science, and theology lessons which can capture the interest and increase the attendance of Relief Society sisters and stimulate faith and faithfulness, also help them to obtain fervent testimonies of the gospel of our Lord. We need an informed leadership. We are inclined too much in the Church to let our lines of communication break down so that information doesn't filter down through proper channels RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP to the rank and file of our people. Leadership is prone not to share information with those who work with them. The better informed people are, the better work they do. That which people understand, they support. It is the things they do not understand, they fail to support. May I suggest and counsel Relief Society leadership, at all levels, to adhere to programs, instructions, and procedures of your Society. Please don't set aside the planned functions of Relief Society and go off on tangents by following the personal ideas _ you may have about bettering its program and activities. Relief Society leaders should be capable administrators, knowledgeable in planning and _ programming, and with a willingness to share responsibility with workers by delegation and assignment, having trust in the workers by not taking over from them, yet hold them to good performance and proper results. You stake leaders fully support the Relief Society General Board and the full program it offers. Its Presidency work directly under General Authority Advisors and the First Presidency. The Relief Society program is approved by them. Ward Relief Society leadership and boards please support stake Relief Society leaders who work under a high councilman representative and the stake presidency. The Relief Society ward leadership and board also work under direction of the bishopric. In all these relationships (General, stake, and ward boards) there must be delegation and instruction without dictation. 87 FEBRUARY 1966 In the Church we are concerned with unity, which is achieved by working together in the spirit of love, and not by authoritative domination. Proper leadership attitudes, with friendliness and love of people, are so important and meaningful to secure the respect, confidence, and the interest of the women of the Church. President McKay, speaking to the brethren on the new missionary plan, made a most significant statement to them, which I envision as applying to all Church leadership. Said President McKay, "This plan (speaking of the missionary plan) as I see it, is a plan of education and not one of dictation."' By thinking this statement through, we can understand how leaders should deal with each other in the Lord's work. However, we get out of people about what we expect. If we expect good performance, we will receive good performance. If we are satisfied with mediocre performance, then we will obtain mediocre performance. With the growing Church, we must get set for more responsibility and be equal to greater challenges to service. You have a real job to do in Relief Society which requires constant selfevaluation of one's potential; and from that self-evaluation determine whether you workers are measuring up to the potentialities of your callings. When inviting a person to serve in Relief Society, leadership should not minimize the time or devotion one is required to give. If leaders will help workers under them to obtain a proper perspective of their callings and what the aims, objectives, and purposes are, greater accomplishments and improved results will follow. In the selection of people for Church service, leadership first must determine, by prayerful study, what the position to be filled requires to meet the purposes, aims, and objectives of the work. When that is determined, then leadership will look around for someone meeting the qualifications of the position and who is thoroughly orthodox in the doctrines and programs of the Church. When such an individual is found, after proper clearance, she should be approached and the work of the position explained clearly to her understanding, emphasizing what is expected of her, the time it will take, then if she responds with enthusiasm to the challenge, invite her to serve. If she is hesitant and lacks enthusiasm for the calling, then it is best to look for someone else. We must have people in the organizations of the Church who can be depended upon to give full, devoted, and dedicated service. Another important item in inviting people to service is an understanding about tenure of office. No organization can succeed with frequency of personnel turnover.. The most effective organizations are those where the personnel stay together. It seems we hardly train someone for an important Church position—and all positions are important— when for some reason or another, replacement is necessary. It takes several months to settle into a position and be effective in the work. Leadership, struggling constantly to train new personnel, finds it very difficult to promote the full program of the Church successfully for the blessing of its membership. Much care should be exercised in selecting qualified and efficient secretaries who are capable and meticulous with the records and reports of Relief Society. Good records will give understanding to presidencies of the statistical status of an organization in order that the officers can determine measurement of Relief Society progress and know where special attention and emphasis are required. Relief Society should constantly measure its progress' to determine what direction the organization is going. Your first comparison should be with your own organization's progress. If. You want to compare your organization with another, it should be with the best, and not with the average. The same thing is true in business. If a business man wants to compare his operation with another, he should find the best in his field. Then he will learn something that will be helpful to him in making his own business more successful and_ profitable. This principle holds true in Relief Society. No doubt you receive comparative reports, which permit you to know what other Relief Societies are doing. From the best and most efficient among them, you will want to emulate in the organization for which you are responsible. One thing in any organization which always concerns me is trends. Watch trends carefully; are they up or down? If the trend is down, even though slightly, then is the time to redouble the efforts of leadership and all board members working cooperatively together to reverse the trend. If RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP an organization drifts too far downward, it takes many months of real hard work to change the trend to an upward, progressive position. This means the board must always have a full staff of constantly functioning officers and teachers. If a new program is introduced, you should keep careful check to see if, statistically, your organization shows any improvement in results; if not, the cause should be determined and appropriate action taken to correct the condition or conditions. It seems to me that in keeping with the tempo of our times, we cannot wait for things to happen. We must make them happen, and in the right direction for the success of the Lord's work, and this applies to Relief Society. In Relief Society you leaders must evaluate, challenge, and commit your workers to faithful performance. It is the job of leadership to know the program. It is the job of every board member to become thoroughly acquainted with every angle and facet of her position; because if leadership fails, program fails. If a board member is not doing effective work in her field of activity, it adversely affects the whole program of the organization. It is important that every called person fulfill her duty one hundred per cent effectively. Take the problems you cannot solve or are uncertain about to the proper Priesthood authorities whose responsibility it is to be helpful and to give encouragement to the work of Relief Society. I realize my talk, sisters, is mostly slanted to stakes and 89 FEBRUARY 1966 wards; however, it likewise applies to missions, with their districts and branch Relief Society boards. I recognize, also, in some stakes, wards, mission districts and branches, sufficient experienced, qualified, capable leadership is not always available. You then must take and use the best material the good Lord has provided and with teaching, training, and_ spiritual motivation reach for the ideal organizational strength by application of the suggestions I have outlined to you. Unless we constantly work toward the ideal, it will never be achieved. There must be a good beginning, a_ proper _followthrough with a productive training program to build strength into every department of Relief Society work. Leaders in Relief Society must be personal, living examples of all the gospel and the Church stand for. Now in making this presentation, sisters, I know that your organization is functioning well. You are rendering a tremendous service, not only to the women of the Church, but to all the membership of the Church. I think you are a light to the people of the Church and to the people of the world in the things you do. But if it is possible to do better, to improve the work, to reach the people who are not receiving the advantages of Relief Society work, then it is your responsibility to do so. This work is important; these are great days in which we live; much is co of us, as the people of the Lord. I know that Relief Society can be counted upon to do its p effectively and efficiently and to organize and function well to carry out the principles, ideals, and the programs and activiti of your organization in such a way that people will be blessed ard strengthened in faith an testimony. May God continue blessings upon you in all that you do in this great Relief Society undertaking, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. OAKLAND Marilyn McMeen Miller Where gulls cry up, skies hurry the dawn, And floors of cities, dark beneath the shade Of trees, erupt; a day of days comes on A cartwheel of sun. And below, in promenade, Faces in a sea of men are aware That suddenly a set of spires high on this hill Touches the sky. And now that spires are there, Eyes in these faces should watch, and become still. Wind-swept sea, and all the bridges out Beyond the span of man's mind have not known Of golden spires, such as these, to shout Such words of power, above a citadel of stone. If eyes of men perceive at all, they know the promise of the Lord: This stone is not a monument to peace, but to a sword. "A Time to Every Purpose" Venda Brown Castleberry Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest @ It seemed strange to me later that Mother's letter saying that she was coming to visit us should arrive the same day that I had an offer to go back to work at the dance studio. Ten years ago I had given up a promising career in dancing to marry Andy, and while I hadn't exactly regretted it —still there had been times when I wondered if my only talent was not for dancing. The demands of my children seemed endless, and the thought of a career where one need only practice to see results seemed like heaven to me! I had been feeling increasingly unsuccessful as a homemaker. Strange, I thought, reading Mother's letter again, that she should come just when I'm wondering what to do—when I haven't even talked to Andy. Mother had always come before to help me wait out the last dragging days before a new baby, and to see me off to the hospital, Andy beside me, knowing that all would be well at home. After the first time when I returned from the hospital, Mother would be there, before Andy had the car stopped, to take the new baby, suede-soft blanketed, from my arms. "Let the others know how glad you are to see them before you introduce the new competition!" she would say. The house would be heavenly clean, my bedspread turned back invitingly. I would lie there holding court like a queen, while my family "ooh-ed" and '"aah-ed"' and wonderingly touched the downy head and the wrinkled, pink, satin-soft feet of this, my newest production. Andy marvelled each time at the strength in the tiny curled fists, and 91 "'pooh-poohed"' the idea that new babies can't see! Soon there would be muted sounds of dishes in the kitchen, and Mother would lure the children away for lunch. Then Andy and I would have a quiet time to plan this new life—in great detail. "When she gets married," Andy said when we brought our first daughter home, "her husband had better be good to her, or he will have to settle with me." Mother could always tell when I was able to take over the new baby; not until I was over the spell of inexplicable crying that climaxed the "baby blues," and could bathe the new baby, and ward off the help of a toddler without shaking with nerves and weakness. Then she would bake a supply of cookies and Andy's favorite boiled raisin cake; she 92 would defrost the refrigerator, clean the oven, change all of the sheets, wash and put away the laundry, and shampoo all of the children's hair—'"'to sort of give you a head-start," she would say. I would find the reins of my home slipping into my hands, and Mother would take off, saying she'd spoiled the new baby as much as she could in two weeks —now we'd have to take over the spoiling! Daddy died when I was in high school, and the first year I was away at college Mother and a friend began putting on lecture and music programs. They caught on right away, are in demand constantly, and receive numerous letters from people whom their program has inspired. And then there's I, I thought. The biggest challenge in my day is trying to have the breakfast dishes washed before Andy gets home at night! Always before Mother had left her work to come when we needed her; this time she would be treated like a guest! I would get everything done up, so that she would not see that I was snowed under, and a failure! When Robert Burns made his poetic statement about the bestlaid plans of mice and men, he must have had me in mind! Ellen, my two-year-old woke up feverish and sick two days before Mother was to arrive—and there went my plans for an orderly visit! I rocked Ellen, sang "Bye Baby Bunting" until I was hoarse, for she would let nobody else touch her. I watched her shallow breathing, the way her eyelids fluttered open as_ she slept. In spite of the doctor's reassurance and the antibiotics, I was sick with fear as I sponged the yellow curls back from her forehead. Watching a sick child like this, I always think of the pioneer mothers—no doctor—no antibiotics—no cold water even— and I wonder how it would be to have a child die, while you watched, helplessly! Miy feeling of relief and joy that Ellen's fever was gone, the morning Mother was to arrive, was followed by one of despair as I surveyed the state of the household! There was time for only a quick once-over after Andy had left for the airport. Thank goodness for peanut butter and its (almost) complete protein! I thought, as I cleaned away the remains of meals the children had fixed for themselves. There was, of course, no baking done—no shopping either. "A TIME TO EVERY PURPOSE" "IT wanted her to see me as a capable adult—maybe making a wise decision — not a failure abdicating because she can't cut the mustard," I said aloud as I scrubbed frantically at the bathroom bowl, and caught a glimpse of my stringy hair in the mirror. "What's the matter with me?" Andy arrived with Mother, a sack of hamburgers, and a gallon of root beer, to usher in what was actually a typical two weeks at our house, but which seemed pretty bad to me—looking at it as I thought Mother must be looking. IN spite of our rule that the children were not to eat in the living room, the rug and furniture were, somehow, spotted. In spite of Andy's and my knowledge of child psychology, Ellen still demanded—and got—her bottle. The pile of clothes to be ironed grew, in spite of the children's wearing un-ironed play clothes. There was sand everywhere, from the constant trailing of children from the sand box to the bathroom—or to the refrigerator for popsicles and punch. Each day I arose with the resolve to get ahead of my work, but it was like being on a _ treadmill, with the children's needs holding me back. When I had gained a little time, a crisis inevitably ate it up! The last day of Mother's visit the woman from the dance studio came to talk to me about going back to work. After she had left, I turned to Mother with a defiant air. "T don't care, Mother! You can see how we live! I can't manage— the children just take too much out of me—anyone could do 93 FEBRUARY 1966 better—I could hire somebody to fix decent meals, keep the house straight! I don't know what I do with my time. Oh, Mother, I wanted to do something creative with my life! I can't see anything ahead but this feeling of always being behind—nothing to show for what I do! I keep wondering if the children will remember me as a mother who couldn't cope." Mother was seated where she could look beyond me, out through the window. She said mildly now, "Turn around and look, dear. Don't they look happy and healthy?" I turned to see the yard full of children, swarming over the play equipment. "Yes," I said, ''and the ones whose mothers work look just as happy and healthy as mine!"' Mother' said __ thoughtfully, "There must be much their mothers miss, gone all day— things that come up—with children, teaching, rearing them—it is a long time—perhaps not in a lifetime—that we know how we have done." I could see that Mother was not going to advise me. Mother was busy at her typewriter late that afternoon. I almost envied her, in there creating something to express herself, to give to the world. Anpy and I left the children with a baby sitter and _ took Mother to the airport. I felt lonely as she waved to us from the doorway of the plane. I would miss her good company—and I was vaguely disappointed that she had not helped me decide about taking the job. Back home, I watched from the 94 porch as the sitter walked the half block to her house. As I turned to go into the house, I saw a letter in the mailbox. It was from the dance studio. Without opening it, I stuffed it into my pocket. I felt restless. I wished Mother had stayed another day—maybe we could have talked more about my going to work. I wandered into the guest room, and suddenly felt closer to Mother; the sweet scent of her cologne was there, the imprint of her hand, where she had fluffed the cushion in the chair. And propped against the dresser mirror was an envelope addressed to me. Ah, she hasn't forgotten! I thought. We had always left letters to each other when we had something special to say. I lay across the bed and opened it. It was long—this must have been what she was typing this afternoon. This is what she had written, and it was right from one heart to another: ".. It is sweet to have a daughter, sweet to visit in her home, to see what a fine mother she is! It is the pay-off, believe me, for whatever it is that one gives! 'May I tell you a few of the countless memories of my visit— memories I take with me—and that give my life significance because you are my daughter? " 'T suppose you're mad at me!' I heard Chloe Ann say one day, when she had come from the store with treats for all of the children. 'You told me to get something Ellen could eat—and I forgot she can't chew wax.' You hesitated a moment before answering her. 'No-oo, I'm not mad at you. You made a mistake, but we don't get mad at people for making mistakes! We all make mistakes —Heavenly Father: sent us here to learn not to make them—we are all learning—He is pleased when each mistake teaches us something!' "Eillen's first summer out of doors could have been miserable —she was so afraid of 'bugs.' Her screams brought you on the run countless times—and then you made a project of helping her. You brought in a bright red box elder bug and put it on the window curtain. The children— especially wide-eyed Ellen — watched as you 'petted' him, and one by one, they found the courage to touch. The bug stayed there all day, with you picking Ellen up many times to look at his pretty color, his funny feelers, and the legs that were so tiny 'they tickle little girls.' You told the children that the greatest scientists in the world could not make even a tiny bug like that —look how Heavenly Father had made the outside—tougher than any plastic. The next morning when you were dressing Ellen you playfully walked your fingers over her tummy, her legs and arms, saying, 'I'm a bug—I crawl on little girls and tickle them! What do you do when a bug crawls on you, little girl?' Soon Ellen would giggle and say 'I brush him off—like dis!' "Jimmy was having trouble with the truth. You listened quietly to one of his fantasies one day, and then said, 'Wouldn't it be funny if that really happened! Of course it didn't really happen, but it would make a good story; go on, write it all down, and name it 'A Story by James Beardsley'! But when you tell something, be sure to ask yourself if it is true—or if it is makeup. If it is make-up you must always say so, and then you won't forget which is the truth.' "T should have liked to have a moving picture of you baking cookies with eight pairs of hands helping you! I wondered if you were longing for the days when you had the kitchen to your efficient self! "Jeanie threw the checkers and board across the room when she had lost a game, and ran to her room crying. You followed and were gone for a long time. When she challenged me to a game the next day, I was apprehensive when I saw she was going 95 FEBRUARY 1966 to lose. She wiped her eyes with the back of her hand as she played gamely on, and I am sure it was your words she spoke. 'It's only a game— it isn't fun when you get mad—everyone will still love you, even if you lose— that's the way it goes; someone wins, someone loses every time—next time maybe I'll be lucky!' I was so proud of her, as she swallowed hard—and challenged me to another game. '"'Watching television one night, the girls were dancing to the music, with stiff-legged, hopping steps. You were writing a shopping list, but you kicked off your shoes, joined the girls. 'Oh, let me dance with you!' you said. 'That music just tells you to dance; doesn't it? I'm going to be a tree in the wind! See how the wind bends me—first to one side, slowly—then around and around my trunk—then almost to the ground....' It was beautiful to see—their first consciously graceful movements! "Oh, Patricia, there are too many precious memories! I don't know where to stop recalling them! I wish you could see your days as I do—so very blessed! "These are the difficult days— when you feel as if you are pulled and divided in a thousand directions, until there is nothing of you left! Days of purposeful confusion, when your home is a laboratory — a studio — where children are being shaped into men and women. Later, when they are gone, your house will be orderly—but it will be a museum of memories — not a dynamic laboratory where memories are being made! "You said you had wanted to do something creative with your 96 life. What could be more creative than what you are doing? To be the co-creator of a human being! To be the creative artist— to shape your creation into the most universally significant work of art—a good man! What is working with marble, or paint, or words, or sounds—or movement—compared with working with eternal, infinite souls? You are discouraged because you do not see your creation finished before your eyes—your genius credited by a _ signature; how could this be—when a soul is forever changing, developing—is never finished! Our Heavenly Father, who sees the end from the beginning, does not, I am sure, see your work as you see it now." I could not read the end of Mother's letter. I lay, face down, crying into the bedspread. "Oh, Mother—your're still making me grow up—You always did make me feel so—so big—better than myself—so valuable, that I never could go back to too easy things —" | felt stronger, not so pushed —as if there might be a patterned purpose to the crazy kaleidoscope of my life. I pulled the curtain aside, looked out at the play equipment abandoned in the moonlight. '"'Laboratory!" I mused to myself. "Climb, stretch, yell, quarrel, dig, learn!" I got up, went into the hall, saw the crookedly lettered sign on my big girls' door: "Kids— stay out!!! Mommy this doesn't mean you." I nodded my head. "Studio. Women being fashioned!"' I opened my boys' door. There they were, asleep on the floor, a quilt under them, their dog be- tween them! I had told them their dog was not to sleep in their bed. But of course—he would be lonely on the floor by himself! "Do not disturb!" I said to myself. "Men undergoing creation— good men — strong men — compassionate men." THE little girls' room was a shambles. They had played themselves into exhaustion, and then had fallen asleep at opposite ends of one bed. Tied to the bed by a ribbon sash, the rocking horse was draped with all the clean play clothes he could hold. Their bedtime cookies had been moistened with water and portioned out on play dishes, with crumbs and water everywhere. How does a baby sitter turn into a mother, with an ear for such bedtime hi- "A TIME TO EVERY PURPOSE" jinx? I wondered, as I went for a towel. "Hey, stop prowling and come keep me company!" Andy called from the living room, and I joined him there, my feet curled under me, his arm holding me snug beside him on the couch. The letter from the dance studio, still in my pocket, poked me. I pulled it out and tore it up. "What are you tearing up, sweetie?" Andy asked, as I ripped across a scrap that said "If we do not receive an answer within ten days." "Oh, it's an offer this company made me—" I said, "—as a matter of fact, a pretty good offer! But suddenly tonight this doesn't seem like the time for it, at all!" Venda Brown Castleberry, Ucon, Idaho, author of ''A Time to Every Purpose,"' second prize-winning story, was awarded first prize in the contest last year. She speaks of her writing efforts as being "'delayed."'. "! Received a Bachelor of Arts Degree, in May 1965, from Brigham Young University, where! Had enrolled after being out of high school for thirty-one years. | am currently teaching English at Bonneville High School in Idaho Falls, Idaho. "At the University my stories were published by the Universe and the Wye Magazine, of which | was short story editor in 1964. During the past year | have tried my hand at television and motion picture writing, in collaboration with Melba Taylor Gleave. (Mrs. Gleave has been published in The Relief Society Magazine also.) One of our scripts is being considered favorably by the Brigham Young University Motion Picture Department, and we have some teleplays in the hands of an agent in Hollywood. | continue to submit short stories to magazines, and, occasionally, find favor. | am working on a novel about Latter-day Saint colonization in Montana in the early 1920's. "| have a son Lloyd and a daughter Charline (Mrs. Herbert Mote), and ten grandchildren, who all join me in the increasing excitement about my delayed writing efforts." NO LONGER MISSING Eleanor W. Schow A drooping flag Weeps at half-mast; Our hearts are torn But our fears are past. 97 FEBRUARY 1966 SELFEXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC @ Self-expression through music is afforded in Relief Society through congregational singing, Singing Mothers choruses, accompanying, performance of preludes, interludes, and postludes, and through teaching and conducting. Hymn singing by the congregation is one of the most common, yet one of the very essential music activities in our Church service. This means of expression, in which all may take part, should at all times be thoughtful, sincere, and meaningful; and those participating should experience a feeling of reverence, devotion, and joy. HYMN PRACTICE PERIODS The practice periods are for the purpose of teaching and learning new hymns and songs, or for perfecting the rendition of those with which the members are already familiar. Music leaders should keep in mind the values that are to be derived from wellplanned practice periods. Besides teaching new songs to increase the repertoire, singing helps to strengthen the voices of Relief Society women and makes them more flexible and responsive. It aids in the development of more self-confidence and ease when singing with others. Just to sing another hymn without some definite planning for its betterment is not a profitable practice period. The success of congregational singing, as well as that of the 98 Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society [ Address delivered in the Music Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] Singing Mothers, is largely dependent upon the efficiency and personality of the music leaders. Besides adequately preparing the materials that are to be _ presented, the conductor and accompanist should always go before their audience, or organization, radiating a feeling of warmth and friendliness. Such an atmosphere puts people at ease, and they respond in like manner. When introducing a new hymn or song: 1. Make brief mention of author and composer. (Data concerning their lives and works may be found in Stories of Our Mormon Hymans, by J. SPENCER CORNWALL, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah) 2. Study text of hymn— its philosophy, beauty, and strength. 3. Observe melody and harmonies. (The composer Haydn said: "It is the melody which is the charm of music.'') 4. Analyze rhythm and tempo. 5. Hum melody. 6. Sing softly with "oo" and "oh." 7. Sing words. (If necessary, correct pronunciation, notes, or rhythm.) This same procedure, with the inclusion of part rehearsals, may be followed in teaching new songs to the Singing Mothers. The book, Music Leadership in The Relief Society, published by The General Board of Relief Society, will prove very helpful to music leaders. For instance, in Chapter Seven, details concerning interpretation are given. Knowing in advance, as we do, the subjects that are to be pre- sented in Relief Society during the year, it should be comparatively easy to select hymns and vocal and instrumental music that will enhance and strengthen the various lessons to be taught. The hymns should be sung in keys of the medium range of voice, and, if needed, the music should be transposed to meet this need. Occasionally, the hymns in the male section of the hymn book are printed in lower keys, and accompanists can use these. A transposed copy of a hymn is needed only by the accompanist. THE CONDUCTOR The way in which the conductor conducts definitely influences those whom she leads. It should always be made a delightful and happy experience. Conductors should often check their conducting to make sure that eccentricities are not creeping into their work. Practicing before a mirror will reveal little variations and weaknesses in the conducting of which one may not be conscious. It also enables a conductor to see herself as others see her. When conducting, bodily movements are often too much in evidence, as is also the constant use of the hand and arm that is not wielding the baton. This makes conducting look laborious when it should be just the reverse —a graceful, meaningful art. One of the faults quite often observed, among both inexperienced and experienced conductors, is that of not conducting the long notes in a composition, but instead, just holding the arm out motionless and ceasing to conduct the baton pattern. This disrupts the natural flow of the SELF-EXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC rhythm and creates a feeling of uncertainty among the performers as to what the exact length of the tone will be. Conducting without a baton is generally responsible for this inartistic habit. Let us, then, remember that all long notes are to be conducted, with the exception of the end note of a verse or the final note of a composition. However, if the singing ends, and the accompanist still has measures to play, the conductor uses the free hand to stop the singers and goes right on conducting the measures for the accompanist until the very end of the composition. Just as the singers are part of the composition from the very first note that is played or sung, just so are they part of the composition until the very last note of it is finished. Another suggestion, if followed, that will increase the efficiency of the conductor is that of always having a music stand directly in front of her on which to place the hymn book or copy of music. It should be arranged at a convenient height so that the conducting can be done effectively above it. In this way the hand, that would otherwise have to hold the music, is free, and can be used to suggest changes in volume, variations in rhythm, tempo, and style; and, by holding the index finger up, it can indicate the length of a tone that is being sustained. This free hand, which is called "the musician," is also used for the purpose of bringing in or releasing the vocal or instrumental parts in a composition. Therefore, it is most important in the artistic interpretation of a musical number. 99 FEBRUARY 1966 If well-trained, this hand has a distinctive method of communication between the conductor and the performers. It is hoped that all music leaders will expand their activities beyond just that of conducting congregational singing and observing the practice period. Our sisters should have the opportunity of progressing musically, and be afforded the privilege and joy of participating in a Singing Mothers chorus. Not alone will this enlarge their appreciation and scope of music, but it will also be of value to the Relief Society organization and to the Church. The activity will challenge the music leaders and, at the same time, enlarge their capacity and understanding of this noble art. Music offers many avenues for self-expression. Choose from these offerings and become more prepared in your efforts to serve the Church. I will prepare myself and then when an opportunity comes along, I will be prepared for it. —Abraham Lincoln ONE DAY AT THE TEMPLE Vida D. Brinton @ It was a beautiful autumn morning. We were up early, and at the temple at 6:45 a. M. My assignment that morning was at the entrance of the ladies cloak room. What a strategic place to see all the pageantry of happiness and love and joy that comes through temple work! And what a place for love and service. So many who come to the temple need someone to rejoice with them because of the privilege of just being in the temple. First came a family to be sealed, the parents and two beautiful teenage daughters. The girls had just returned from a trip in the Northwest. Through the girls' interest in the Church, they had interested their parents, and the parents had become active after years of inactivity. While the girls were away the parents had gone to the temple, then wired the girls, and the girls responded with beautiful roses. Now they were there together. I do not think I have ever seen more joy and happiness than was evident in those girls and their parents. Then the beautiful brides and their bridegrooms, there for the most sacred moment of their lives. And each couple made to feel that their marriage was the most important one of the day. With the Priesthood, chastity, temple marriage, prayer, and all the other teachings the gospel gives, what a wonderful foundation on which to build a perfect marriage. Missionaries, there for the first time, with faith and courage, ready to go out into the unknown world, their dreams of a lifetime ready to be realized. With these young missionaries, both men and women, I think we see the most sincere and deepest humility possible. And with them come the happy parents. Then four returned missionaries going to the temple before going back to college which they left to go on their missions. What a glorious way for young men to spend their vacation! That evening I had the feeling that I would just like to put my arms around each of those people who entered the temple that day, for I think I saw more happiness and joy that day than many see in a lifetime. 100 74> Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has recently recorded a series of hymns ''Sermons in Song.'' The selection is beautifully balanced, beginning with a morning prayer, continuing with hymns illustrating some of life's problems and satisfactions, and concluding with a benediction. ''Mrs. Smith's intonation is outstanding.... The rich and spiritual conviction of her voice makes her solos impart an impression of _ classical grace.' Roy M. Darley, Tabernacle organist, is accompanist for the recordings. Margaret Cousins, former managing editor of McCalls Magazine, and herself a noted writer, is now book editor for Doubleday and Company. She is author of We Were There at the Battle of the Alamo, and she collaborated with Margaret Truman Daniels on her autobiography Souvenir. Santha Rama Rau, eminent author and world traveler, is a native of India. She was educated in England and the United States, graduating from Wellesley College. Her best known book Home to India describes her homecoming and her point of view after years abroad. Dr. Elizabeth McSherry, twenty-six years old, is a resident pediatrician at New York's great Babies Hospital. Hers is one of the most difficult and most sought after training posts in medicine. She was one of thirteen women in a class of 130 medical students at Columbia University. Vesta N. Fairbairn, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and wellknown California poet, critic, and teacher, is president of the California Writers Guild. Mrs. Fairbairn receives much honor and distinction in this position, following such eminent writers as Lee Shippey, Allan Vaughan Elston, Irving Stone, and Dr. L. E. Nelson. For more than thirty years Robert Frost was honorary president of the Guild, and served in that capacity until his recent passing. Mrs. Lee Breedlove, wife of Craig Breedlove, famous speed racing enthusiast, and mother of five children, in October 1965, won the women's international land speed record on the Salt Flats near Salt Lake City, Utah. She drove her husband's jet racer at an average speed of 308.56 m. P. H. Margaret Mead, anthropologist and author of many scientific works, has written a new volume called The Family, describing many of the basic elements which comprise this basic unit of society. Ken Heyman supplied the illustrative pictures, representing families in forty-eight countries. Mrs. Robert (Allegra) Snyder is the woman part of a man-and-wife team who have written, directed, and produced a film in color, called "'Bayanihan,'' for a Philippine dance company. It blends rituals, customs, and _ traditions of the Philippine people. Mrs. Snyder has performed and_ choreographed in top-level productions, and she teaches dance education through films. 101 EDITORIAL A Valentine for the Visiting Teachers m In this season of remembrance, when expressions of love and solicitude are so freely given and so gratefully received, it is well that we consider with thoughtfulness and gratitude our blessings as women and as Relief Society sisters. From continent to continent, the world around, there are women who go as companions in solicitude, from door to door, giving their offerings of encouragement and love, "'strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience... With joyfulness; giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light" (Col 1:11-12.) The busy young mother in her home, the woman in her middle years, who may be lonely at times, the elderly sisters who are not able to leave their homes—women blessed with material comforts, and those who are in stringent circumstances, all are given the precious balm of remembrance and loving concern. So it is for every woman of the sisterhood—she does not need to bear her burdens nor solve her problems alone. The presence of the visiting teachers reminds her that she is part of a world-wide organization, that thousands stand with her and support and strengthen her. Around her, and with her, there is the strength of many kind _ voices and many fervent prayers. In her life and in her home there is the blessed pattern and direction of those who are messengers of the gospel, for the visiting teachers of Relief Society are emissaries of the only Priesthood-directed organization of women established by divine inspiration by a Prophet of God. The visiting teachers carry with them the heritage of the women of Nauvoo who walked down to the river's edge to welcome and to assist the strangers who had come to a new land. The sisters who come to our doors have inherited that feeling of helpfulness and dear concern which motivated those who ministered so kindly to their sisters during the long journey to the West; they are spiritual relatives of the pioneer women who traveled horseback or in wagons or buggies or in bob sleighs to carry their message of mercy. The sisters who walked the miles of country roads, through hills and in lonely places, have bequeathed to our present-day visiting teachers their tender hearts and their ministering hands. "And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness... To the which also ye are called in one body..." (Col. 3: 14-15). The visiting teachers are obeying the command to visit the fold and the flock and to remind all the sisters that they are beloved women in an organization so large and so blessed that all may be encompassed in a circle of everlasting spiritual strength and growth as they seek together the fulfillment of their heritage and their blessings. There may be only a few words said when the visiting teachers come to our homes, the time of communication may be brief, but the days that follow will be gladdened by the message of faith and protected by the concern and the love of the world-wide sisterhood, "that their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love' (Col. 2:2). In this season when greetings of love and good will are exchanged, and messages of affection are given and received, let all of us who have been privileged to partake of the spirit of the visiting teachers the whole year through, give to them our sincere words of gratitude. From full hearts, let us give a valentine to the visiting teachers. —V. P. C. IN MEMORIAM Gladys Sessions Boyer December 14, 1899 — December 8, 1965 Gladys Sessions Boyer, former member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away at her home in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 8, 1965. She had served in teaching and executive positions in the Church for many years. She was counselor and later president of Kolob Stake Relief Society. During the time that her husband served as president of the London Temple, Sister Boyer acted as matron, and while Brother Boyer was president of the British Mission, Sister Boyer directed Relief Society activities in that mission. As a member of the General Board, from 1953 to 1958, Sister Boyer served on many committees and special programs, particularly the Work Meeting and Short Story and Poem Contest Committees. She was General Board representative for many years on community sponsored organizations. She was greatly loved by her many friends and her associates, as a gracious woman, kind and sympathetic. She will be long remembered for her words of encouragement and counsel, and for her life of devoted service to the Church and to her family and friends. The General Board of Relief Society and all who have known and loved Sister Boyer extend heartfelt sympathy to Brother Boyer and the four sons and one daughter, and to all the family. May their lives continue to be blessed by the memory and the teachings of their lovely wife and mother. Notes to the Field The Relief Society Emblem The emblem of the sego lily as used by Relief Society on its pins, bracelets, and necklaces was copyrighted in 1958 for the exclusive use of Relief Society. Although it may be reproduced and used on programs for Relief Society gatherings, approval is not given for its use by individuals on any personal publications, music, printed programs, etc. 104 Let's Conquer Heart Disease Education Is a Help Y| Heart and circulatory diseases account for more deaths than all other causes combined. Dr. Paul Dudley White has called heart disease the modern American epidemic. All heart authorities recognize it as a world-wide problem and have set out to do something about it. Diseases of the heart and blood vessels do not respect race, age, or nationality. The American Heart Association Research is the basic program for discovering causes and treatment of heart ailments. More progress has been made in this field in the past fifteen years than in all previous history. We know that heart disease does not have to be fatal. It can be prevented. It can be treated. In some cases it can be cured. Before benefits can be realized from research, the medical profession must be educated. Millions of heart dollars contributed by generous people are used to publish the latest cardiovascular information. The American Heart Association distributes the Heart Bulletin, Modern Concepts of Cardiovascular Disease and the AHA Newsletter. Heart Associations in other countries also publish bulletins and newsletters for the profession. State and national medical societies also distribute the latest heart research information. Public education is the other important phase of this program. Thousands of pamphlets are distributed to inform children and adults about heart disease. Thus fear is replaced with understanding. The newspapers, radio, and TV contribute immensely through free space and time. Doctors, nurses, and scientists volunteer for speaking assignments at heart programs. "For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association." This is a wise rule for the public to follow. Millions of people support the Heart Fund by donating generously of their time and money for life-saving programs. Ask What You Can Do! 105 Relief Society Is for All the Sisters Peggy Petersen Stephens @ To me for years, Relief Society was only a reason that my mother couldn't tend my children Tuesday mornings. It was a place for elderly ladies to go when their housework was done. It was the group I would join when my hair was gray, and I was too old to ski. Then, last October, in the excitement of the new Home Teaching Program, my father, who never asks anything of me, asked me to go to Relief Society. Other people had asked me to go previously— all women whom I liked and admired—and I always smiled and said that I would. I intended to go, too. But not until I was much, much more "mature." There were too many fun things to do— classes to take, things to learn to make. And I wasn't ready to | give up my youth yet. But with January 1965, came the new program, and I resolved to go to Relief Society. The first lesson, discussing the Doctrine and Covenants, stimulated me in a religious way, and intellectually as well. The material was slanted to the feminine viewpoint—much more appealing and interesting to me than the material I had waded through heretofore. I learned about courageous women who had helped their men build the Church in the early days. I felt important, vital, glad to accept my role as a woman. The following week involved missing a brunch, which I very much wanted to attend. The lesson would have to be awfully good to make up for that. And it was. It showed me all kinds of tools to get a Home Evening off the ground. It answered the questions I hadn't wanted to ask, and replaced doubt with enthusiasm. The material applied to all families and gave me insight into the problems of others. Now I am carrying on my own private campaign to bring a few of my friends to Relief Society. I am trying to change the image. They say they're not old enough, that it would be admitting defeat, giving in. And I find myself telling them what others told me—without success. Too many of us limit our friends to people just like ourselves —the same age, the same interests, the same background, the same likes and dislikes. We become narrow, a carbon copy of our friends. At Relief Society we find a variety of ages and interests, a host of women with stimulating ideas, wide experiences. I want to know what they know, hear their thoughts, learn how they grew up, how they reared their children, how they maintain their freshness and enthusiasm. And the classwork offers some of the material I wanted to take in college, and just didn't have the time. I am thinking again. Relief Society has given me great ideas to dwell on while I am scrubbing my floor. I pray that in some way we will be able to bring the young women into our groups and add richness and knowledge to each of their homes through Relief Society. 106 A Valentine for Mother Kathryn E. Franks mTM I must have been nine or ten, and I remember a_ February storm had just left the world outside snowy white. On the trees and fences the snow had drifted in unusual designs. In my own small bedroom the radiator hissed out in jerky sputters. I was hiding in my bedroom working on a fancy valentine for my mother. I had heavy red paper, real lace, white paper doilies, red ribbon, and a wonderful idea for mother's valentine. I was the eldest, and it was important to me that mine would be the prettiest one my mother would receive. The red heart was cut and the white lace nearly around the edge when my little sister Sara, who was four, came skipping into my room. She was trying to cut valentines from a make-it-yourself book. "Oooh," Sara exclaimed when she saw what I was doing. "That is going to be beautiful! May I have some of your lace? I'm making a valentine for mother, too." "No," I answered. "I'm busy. Don't bother me." Sara looked disappointed. She stepped back. Without saying anything, she left the room. After all, I remember thinking, if I give her all my ideas, her valentine will be as nice as mine. Another few inches of lace were pasted around the heart when my younger brother, Billy, came bursting into my room. He had come home from school. 'Look, Sis," he said eagerly, "we're making these valentine nut cups for our mothers. I goofed. Mine are all messed up. Will you help me fix them?" I knew then that if they were finished correctly they would be darling. They would make my valentine look pretty simple! 107 FEBRUARY 1966 "No," I scolded, tossing the cups at him. "I'm not going to have time to finish my own." "All right," Billy said. "'T'll take some of this lace and fix them myself." I snatched away the lace and pushed him from the room. I was surprised when I saw mother nearby, putting away clothes in the hall closet. I was sure she hadn't seen inside, but I was certain she overheard all the nasty things I'd said. Her face looked sad. At bedtime I carefully placed all the trimmings with the partly made valentine in a big box, ready for school the next day. Mrs. Rodgers, our teacher, had promised us that we could work on our valentines the next afternoon during our art period. I remember how excited I was when it was time to clear our desks and start to work. I wanted to finish the outside of mine, so I could start thinking of a special verse. It had to be ready for the next morning, Valentine's Day. As Miss Rodgers handed out the red paper and the trimmings, the children crowded around my desk. "Look!" they exclaimed. "It's going to look just like a store valentine." Miss Rodgers stopped to admire it. She complimented me on my idea. I was certain then... This was going to be the nicest valentine my mother had ever received. The children were asked to take their seats quickly. Miss Rodgers stood in front of the class and began her cutting instructions. First, we were to fold the red sheet and cut the heart. "You know," she told us children, "it doesn't matter how you plan your design, or if there is 108 any design on the front at all. It's the message inside _ that counts. The words 'I love you' are what matters, really. Your mother knows by your actions how much you love her." Miss Rodgers said other things about the real meaning of Valentine's Day, but I couldn't watch her any longer, or listen to what she was saying. I think I gazed down a long time at my valentine. I fingered it slightly. I was looking at the valentine, but as a child, I was seeing myself quite clearly. I'd forgotten, I guess, what I was going to write inside. My valentine didn't look pretty to me anymore. I placed it back in the box. I decided to work on it after school. I was no longer in the mood. There were some things I wanted to do before I finished my mother's valentine. I hurried home after school. I found Sara and asked her into my room. I took her wrinkled book and showed her how to cut the hearts out straight. I tried to be patient while her small hands cut crookedly. Mother knocked on my door to inform me my friend was there to play. I told her I'd be out later, after I finished helping Sara. When Billy came home I sent him to wash his hands so we could work on his nut cups. I showed him how to paste the small red paper hearts on the outside and trim the tops with lace. "As soon as we finish," I told Billy, "we'll take our allowance and you can bike to the store for some tiny red hearts and some _ assorted nuts. We'll fill them and have the cups ready for tomorrow." Billy was delighted with the idea. It felt good to be the eldest. \ "They look swell, Sis. Thanks for helping me." Then he scooted out of the room with the money to go to the store. That evening I put Sara to bed and read her a story. I dried the dishes before going to my room to begin my school work. First, I tried to think of a good verse for mother's valentine, but I was too sleepy. I couldn't think. I remember how confidently I put it aside until the next morning. I turned out the lights and slipped under the covers. I overslept the next morning. When I woke up I heard Billy and Sara in the hallway already giving mother their valentines. I can feel it now, how near tears I was. Hastily I pulled out A VALENTINE FOR MOTHER the fancy, unfinished valentine from the box. I scrambled for the paste and lace... A verse. There wasn't time. I had to dress or I'd miss the school bus. All I could do was open the valentine and write in my best handwriting, "I love you, Mother," and sign my name. Funny thing about mothers... There was a proud smile on her face when I handed it to her, like a secret message between us. I think she loved that valentine more than any I ever made, or any I ever bought her afterwards. How am I sure? Perhaps I wasn't, not until I became a mother and today I received my first, one such valentine! NIGHT LIFE Kathryn Kay "You are courageous,"' People tell me, You are brave and valiant, too." Which, though vastly complimentary Is not absolutely true, For | think perhaps my pillow Knows me better than most folk It thinks me more a weeping willow Than a sturdy oak! IN DEFENSE OF VALENTINES Olive W. Burt Now let the messages of love be spoken. Let no one hesitate to say the word, To send the flower, or verse, or some small token That gives his love a voice that can be heard. For hate is vocal. Hate sends its hurtful message Straight to the anguished heart that must give heed; And lust and greed are noisy and derisive— Into the mangled air they shriek their creed. But love speaks softly, and is often silent, Trusting frail threads of thought too swiftly broken. So in this day when much is mad and violent Let love's sane messages be clearly spoken. 109 Willows trail While darting Comb w,. Ke ir the ri to His river, TM This Connecting s | sat cross-legged— 4 he And watched a sm Yesterday's The, eve Cha eat of p As we ran to the cabin. Splashing through soggy sand-beds, We gathered rocks and fed the river. Time wrapped us tight together, Through the seasons — Of a thousand yesterdays. Os: il Velvet banks are blue with evening. The willows weep, "J And happy waters rhythmically respond. Another curl of fish sperm rushes past, But the rain is quieter now. _ The dream of summer is 7:. > = =_ And the knowledge That you will come. ' My son, | I j Who gathered rocks of wisdom, To feed God's sheep on distant s It will be d to see yo Spanning river mu | r-clouds:; " LV) Below the puffs of spi That spindle the sky. Whistli you wade, As day ripples out; Until rain hisses; At your heels. ' Then you will charge To meet me, And we will stand again, = Coiled into the hair of.. Along the sand-bars, s P Of rain river. Rhubarb Reminds Me Genevieve Van Wagenen @ Whenever I see a rhubarb plant with its large, thick-veined leaves, I always recall the thrift and frugality practiced and taught by the pioneers. I could recall a happy childhood and the fun we youngsters had, and the things we made from the rhubarb leaves; but I don't— pioneer frugality looms more important—more memorable. My parents always had several clumps of rhubarb growing in our yard. My sisters and I loved the tart goodness. In the spring, we could hardly wait for it to mature. We would pull ourselves a stick of rhubarb, wash it, sprinkle it with salt, and chew away. (It makes my mouth pucker now, just to think of it.) As children, we also enjoyed creating "make-believe" hats from the large rippled leaves. The shapely rhubarb leaves were very adaptable for hats. We trimmed the hats with sprigs of lilacs, bridal wreath, tulips, and pansies, fresh from the garden. We fastened the flowers to the leaves with toothpicks. We were real creative with our jaunty spring bonnets. Each one tried to outdo the others. Our imaginations ran wild. Maybe we created a bouncy "Gay Ninety" bonnet, a perky sailor, or, perhaps, a peaked clown hat. We admired and sometimes 112 RHUBARB REMINDS ME laughed at our creations. When finished, we placed the hats atop our curls, at just the right angle. There was quite an art to balancing them. Then we were ready for the fashion parade. Into the house we marched. Mother beamed her approval. On one such occasion, mother said, '"You don't know how lucky you girls are. If you had been my friend Ella, you couldn't have had a rhubarb hat." "Why not?" we queried. Mother looked thoughtful for a moment. We gathered round. When mother looked and sounded that way, she usually let a treasure fall, and we all wanted to be near to catch it. 'When I was about ten or twelve years of age," mother began, "TI had a friend named Ella Williams. Ella's mother was a widow. Her husband had died and left her with the responsibility of. Pro-- viding for five small children. It was a real struggle for Mrs. Williams, for she also had to support and care for her aged father, who was blind. They were poor, very poor," mother said, shaking her head sympathetically. "Women didn't work outside the home much in those days. Work wasn't available, as it is today. But the family was willing to work. They accepted any kind of work or job that was offered them. She took in washings and ironing. She scrubbed the clothes by hand, on a washboard. She always looked tired. "One day," mother continued, ''my father pulled a large armful of rhubarb and told me to take it and give it to Mrs. Williams. My father was always mindful of the needy," she spoke impressively. "He always shared with the poor. You see, when my father was only thirteen years old, he walked across the plains—most of the way barefooted. The pioneers endured many hardships and difficulties. He knew what it meant to be hungry and cold. "Anyway," she said, picking up the story, "I took the rhubarb to Ella's mother. She was so grateful to have it. I stayed to play awhile with Ella. I was real surprised when Mrs. Williams began preparing the rhubarb. She didn't cut off the leaf and lay it to one side to be discarded, as my mother always did. Each large vein in the leaf was carefully cut out and saved. She didn't waste a bit that was edible." "You mean they ate the veins, too?" we grimaced in surprise. "That's exactly what they did. Wasn't she clever and —_—. "T think it was silly," said six-year-old Bess. "T do, too," said Afton. "You think it was silly?" the tone of mother's voice indicated disappointment at their lack of understanding. '"That's because you have never been hungry. Mrs. Williams was a brave little soldier. She fought against the hardships of life. Thrift and frugality were her weapons. Without compromise or complaining, she struggled on. Her pioneer training paid off—you see—she won! She reared a wonderful family, a family of whom the whole town was proud." This true story made a great impression on me that day. One that I have never forgotten. And as the years rolled by, maturity has taught my sisters and me to call pioneer thrift and frugality by their noble names—courage and fortitude. 9 113 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part IV — DESSERTS AND PUNCH Rosa Shurtz R Nothing can finish a meal to perfection like a pie, cut evenly, set neatly in the center of the plate, and topped with a swirl of whipped cream or a little mountain of meringue. Prepared fillings are often more economical than starting from scratch, but sometimes the flavor isn't up to homemade. Try experimenting by adding more lemon juice, sugar, and butter to lemon filling. To make more volume for each package, fold the cooled filling into meringue instead of putting meringue on top. All fillings can use a little salt, more flavor, sugar, and a bit of butter. Don't be afraid to dress up a dessert with chopped nuts, grated chocolate, or whipped cream. Whipped cream can be an expensive item unless you are in a farming community. Try whipped topping made from dry milk crystals, which work very well in any dish using a gelatin base. Use the expensive cream for the finishing touches. On cobblers, crisps, or deep-dish desserts, part whipped dry milk topping can be folded into whipped cream. This adds to volume and cuts cost and calories. It doesn't hold well but must be used immediately. BASIC FRUIT PIE 114 qts. Juice from fruit 14 c. Lemon juice 114 c. Cornstarch 1% Ib. Butter 144 qts. Sugar 2 No. 10 cans water packed fruit, 1 tbsp. Salt drained Heat 1 quart juice to boiling. Mix one pint of juice with cornstarch and add, while stirring, to hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Stir in sugar, salt, lemon juice, and putter. Add drained fruit. Mix carefully. Cool and fill pastry lined pans. Cover with pastry. Bake at 425° thirty minutes until brown. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. May be poured into baked crusts and topped with whipping cream. Apricot Pie: use halved apricots. Berry Pies: 2 tsp. Cinnamon may be added with sugar. Cherry Pies: add red food color and almond flavoring. Peach Pie: almond flavoring and cinnamon may be added. Pineapple Pies: Tidbits or crushed pineapple. 114 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 6 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin 2 tsp. Ginger 114 c. Cold water 2 tsp. Nutmeg 214 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon 2 cans pumpkin No. 2 size 14, tsp. Ground cloves 3 c. Milk; 15 eggs, yolks and whites 1 tbsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cream of tartar Soften gelatin in cold water, mix pumpkin, milk, egg yolks, spices, salt, sugar, and cook, stirring until thick, add gelatin, stir until dissolved, and chill until syrupy and thickened. Add cream of tartar to egg whites, beat until stiff. Add two and a half cups of sugar, gradually, beating constantly, until stiff peaks are formed. Fold into pumpkin mixture. Pour into pie pans which have been lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham. Crackers, or ginger snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Six 9-inch pies or 50 tarts. BASIC CITRUS CHIFFON PIE 27 egg yolks 1 tsp. Green, yellow, or orange food 334 c. Sugar coloring 214 tsp. Salt 5 c. Boiling water 3 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or 214 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or grapegrapefruit juice fruit flavored gelatin 10 tbsp. Grated rind from any of the 5 c. Egg whites above fruits 5 tsp. Cream of tartar 334 c. Sugar Mix first six ingredients together and cook over low heat, stirring until mixture boils. Remove from heat. Stir gelatin into boiling water, and beat into hot custard. Chill, and when partially set, beat until smooth. Add cream of tartar, to egg whites, beat until frothy, and add sugar gradually. Beat to very stiff peaks and fold into gelatin mixture. Pour into pie pans lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham crackers, or ginger-snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Ten 10-inch pies. VARIATIONS: Strawberries or pineapple may be used, 3 cups juice drained from either. Use strawberry or lemon gelatin. Fold in strawberries or crushed pineapple. BASIC PARFAIT PIE 534, c. Crushed pineapple 2 qts. Vanilla ice cream 4 pkgs. Lime-flavored gelatin 6 nine-inch pie shells 1144 qts. Water and juice drained from pineapple Drain fruit, reserve juice. Add water to syrup to make 114 quarts. Bring to boil and dissolve gelatin in hot liquid. Chill until thick as honey. Whip at medium speed about 12 minutes or until double in bulk and thick and fluffy. Soften ice cream to thickness of stiff whipped cream and at low speed add ice cream and pineapple. Mix until just evenly distributed. Pour into pie shells. Chill until firm. Yield: 6 nine-inch pies. VARIATION: Any fruit may be used, canned or fresh. Add sugar to fresh fruit and let set. Drain juice. Use gelatin same flavor as fruits. Garnish with whipped cream. 15 FEBRUARY 1966 OATMEAL CRUST 2 qts. Quick oats 1 tbsp. Salt 2 2/3 c. Sifted flour 2 2/3 c. Melted butter 2 2/3 c. Brown sugar Mix oats, flour, sugar, and salt. Add melted butter and mix until crumbly. Divide into eight parts and pack each part firmly into bottom and sides of nine-inch pie plate. Place an eight-inch plate on top of each to hold crumbs in place. Bake at 375° until brown, about fifteen minutes. Remove small plates several minutes after taking from oven. Cool and use for chiffon, custard, or cream fillings. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. SURPRISE FUDGE CAKE 434 c. Sugar 9 c. Sifted flour 3 c. Shortening 114 tbsp. Baking soda 114 tbsp. Vanilla 114 tbsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Salt. 1 qt. Water 134 c. Cocoa 2 c. Sauerkraut 11 whole eggs Cream sugar and shortening on medium speed 10 minutes until creamy. Add vanilla, salt, and cocoa, continue beating for five minutes on high speed. Add eggs, blend on high speed until light and fluffy. Sift flour, baking powder, and soda together, and add alternately with water using low speed. Wash and chop kraut coarsely. Drain well and mix into batter thoroughly. Bake in greased floured sheet pan at 375° for forty-five minutes. Cool and frost. Yield: 40 to 45 servings. CAKE ROLL 3 c. Pancake mix (buttermilk) 3 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt _ 1 tbsp. Vanilla 12 eggs Grease sides and bottoms of two pans 22'' by 14" by 1"; line with wax paper, grease again, and dust with flour. Put eggs and salt in mixing bowl and beat about 45 seconds on high speed. Add sugar gradually, beating at medium speed until fluffy. Add vanilla and pancake mix and beat about 20 seconds at low speed. Spread evenly in pans and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 400°. Sprinkle two large towels with powdered sugar, while cakes are baking. Loosen cakes around the edge of pans, turn onto towels. Peel paper from cakes. Roll in towels and let stand ten minutes. Unroll and spread with one of fillings, roll up, and refrigerate several hours before serving. Yield: 48 servings. PINEAPPLE WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 1/3 c. Cold water. 3 c. Heavy cream, whipped. 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 14, c. Powdered sugar 3 c. Drained crushed pineapple Soften gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Fold into whipped cream with sugar and pineapple. Spread on cake, reroll and refrigerate. FRUIT WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 3 c. Sifted powdered sugar 1 qt. Heavy cream, whipped 6 c. Fresh or frozen drained fruit, 1/3 c. Cold water blueberries, strawberries, or peaches Soften gelatih in cold water and set in pan of hot water to dissolve. Cool slightly. Fold into whipped cream. Add powdered sugar. Spread on cake, and spread fruit over cream. Reroll. 116 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS DEEP-DISH CHERRY PUDDING 31%4 qts. Sugar 1 tbsp. Mace 6 qts. Red cherries, pitted 114 c. Cornstarch 5 c. Sugar 2 c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt 8 eggs 214 qts. Pancake mix 1 gt. Milk Drain cherries. Bring juice to boil. Combine sugar, salt, and cornstarch with some of the cold juice and stir into hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Add cherries and bring to boil. Put two quarts cherries into each of three pans (16"' by 10" by 2''). Combine dry ingredients for batter into mixer bowl. Add shortening, milk, and eggs. Beat 30 seconds at low speed. Scrape bottom of bowl. Increase speed to medium and beat thirty seconds longer. Spread one-third batter on each pan evenly. Bake at 350° forty-five to fifty minutes. Serve warm with cream or ice cream. Yield: 50 servings. GOLDEN PUNCH 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen orange juice concentrated 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen lemon juice concentrated 2 cans (12 oz. Size) apricot nectar 2 cans pineapple juice 26 oz. Bottle sparkling water Add water to concentrate according to directions. Combine with juice and sparkling water. Add ice. Yield: about 7 quarts. NOTE: Orange and lemon powdered drink mixes used according to directions may be used as a substitute for concentrates. BUTTER CRANBERRY PUNCH 114 c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 12 c. Water 34, tsp. Salt 6 c. Jellied cranberry sauce 34, tsp. Nutmeg 3 qts. Pineapple juice ll4 tsp. Cinnamon Butter 114 tsp. Allspice Whole cinnamon sticks (optional) 214 tsp. Ground clove Butter, as desired Mix sugar and spices with three cups water and bring to boil. In a large pan crush cranberry sauce, add rest of water, and beat until smooth. Add pineapple juice and spiced syrup. Simmer about four minutes. Serve hot, with butter and cinnamon sticks for stirrers if desired. Yield: 50 servings. PARTY PUNCH 4 c. Sugar 214 c. Orange juice 2 c. Water 5 c. Pineapple juice 2 c. Lemon juice 12 oz. Maraschino cherries and juice 2 qts. Dry ginger ale Boil sugar and two cups water for ten minutes. Add lemon, orange, and pineapple juice. Chill for several hours. Add cherries, water, and ginger ale. Pour over ice or for special occasions add three quarts of ice cream to punch bowl. Yield: 60 servings. LUAU PUNCH 2 cans passion fruit juice 1 can pineapple juice 1 can grapefruit juice 2 c. Lemon juice 4 (26 oz.) sparkling water Pour over ice in punch bowl. Yield: 40 large servings - 80 small servings. 17 Loray C. Randall wes C 1 "TM' i he ot -.: * _.. - - *:: 7 1 @ 'Lisa, I do believe you're preparing yourself for a brilliant career as a rag picker!" How many times we had jokingly made this statement to our five-year-old in the last year I couldn't say, but it was getting to be a common expression. Also becoming all too common was my exasperation at finding bits and scraps of material tucked in such places as purses, the toy box, the magazine rack, and the underclothes drawer. Lisa was so fascinated with swatches of fabric and so determined, that I couldn't discard even the tiniest bit. I began doing the cutting for my own sewing projects when she was at Primary, visiting a friend, or other times when I knew she would be away from the house long enough for me to complete the job and throw away the scraps. Then I had an inspiration—a scrapbook. My first effort was a fabric book about four by five inches, with a denim cover which contained twelve different fabric swatches. These were stitched six on each half of the denim cover with a strip of wide bias tape stitched down the middle which nicely solved the problem of raw edges in the center of the book. When possible, I used a selvage edge at the outside edge of the page with the top and bottom page edges pinked or cut as the raveling probability of the individual fabric dictated. This book had a wide sampling of fabric types, including a boucle wool, terry cloth, net, both pinwale and wide wale corduroy, organdy, and other fabrics selected for their combination of interesting textures and color appeal. The cover was marked Lisa's Scrapbook. This is a very quiet toy and one which can be easily tucked into a handbag for silent amusement when a little girl might otherwise get the wiggles in meetings or waiting for appointments. It would also be of interest to a child restricted to quiet play because of illness. Although my original purpose in making the scrapbook was to eliminate the bits and pieces of fabric that collected among Lisa's things, and to entertain her with the textures and colors of the fabrics, I found that the book has become an educational toy. It has piqued her curiosity as to the names of the various fabrics and what makes them different from each other. Why do the boucle wool and terry cloth have loops? Why can I see through the organdy? Why does the corduroy feel rough when I rub it one way and smooth when I rub it the other? Obviously, the toy is also educational for mother who doesn't always have the answers immediately available. I feel the idea of the scrapbook could be adapted for children of various ages. Toddlers learning colors could have a book of plain swatches in bright colors. An extra challenge might be offered by including a single plaid or tweed, offering the opportunity of seeing how many different colors could be found in the single swatch. A picture book could be made for baby. Can you imagine a polkadot fruit tree with a rough brown corduroy trunk set against a blue broadcloth sky in which drifted a white terry-cloth cloud? A few minutes with the zigzag stitch, and these things would be put quickly and permanently in place and, 118 if fabrics used were selected carefully, the book would be completely washable, even by machine. Older children in the family could originate fabric pictures for baby's book making it an interesting and inexpensive project for a family home evening activity. Older girls being taught to sew might make scrapbooks of their own for various families of fabrics with characteristics of each fabric noted for reference. For this type of scrapbook, the swatches might be most conveniently mounted in a notebook of some type. Another helpful book for the future seamstress would be one of various woven and non-woven materials used as interfacings. These ideas might serve as a springboard for new projects of your own and, if all else fails, and your daughter does grow up to be a rag picker, at least she will know her rags. =>- For Years to Come The fragrance of life is often measured in little things—small deeds of kindness done daily, a cheery greeting, a warm handclasp, a simple act of helpfulness, a note of gratitude or appreciation—small acts, but each is a flower that leaves behind a gentle fragrance of blessings for years to come. —Catherine B. Bowles THE LOVELY LEEK LEEKS IN DECORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS Gardeners and flower arrangers take note: In my small garden (vegetable experimental garden), | have had two rows of leek plants for years, using some in the kitchen and saving some for seed. The tall stems, with the beautiful large balls of seed pods at the top, are saved for my flower arranging friends who make stunning compositions, adding unusual dried plants, rocks, driftwood, weeds, and anything unusual they can find in the mountains, deserts, and beaches. The older plants are replaced by the volunteer ones which drop seeds from the large balls of seed pods. In this manner there is no planting, only transplanting the following spring. Leeks seem to be insect free. They require very little water or cultivation. In all, they are a very satisfactory vegetable, delicious in the kitchen and, as decorative material, pleasing and interesting to the onlooker. AGAINST THE SNOW Caroline Eyring Miner The morning sun bathes in ethereal light The old brick home nestled in tall dark trees. Gnarled and twisted, their branches laced with bright Green leaves, dotted with lonely nests to tease New birds to stay, these sentinels stand guard, Limned like an embroidered frieze on the sky In pastel pinks and grays. If they are scarred, No matter. There will no more be young to try The hay lofts, catch a pigeon on the wing. And berry patch and orchard will be cold, Awaiting shout and mischief of the harvesting. They have been up since dawn. Today, the old Home nest will be demolished, so they must go And gather memories against the snow. 121 Promise Nelda P. Litchfield, Calgary, Alberta, Canada @ Daddy knocked softly on the door, and Jane called out, "Is that you, Daddy?" "Yes, dear. Have you time for a brief heart-to-heart talk with your old Dad?" "Of course! Come in. I'm still working on the hem of my wedding dress. Is it all right if I keep sewing while we chat?' "Certainly, Janie. I realize you have so much to have ready for next week, when we will go to the temple with you for your marriage." And so they talked. Jane had nearly finished the hem, when Daddy asked her if she would make him a promise. She did not hesitate for a moment, because she knew he had never asked her to do anything which was not right. Daddy became very serious, as he said, "Janie—when your honeymoon is over, in two weeks or so, will you promise me that you will start Relief Society right off the bat?" "Relief Society? Oh, Daddy, in the ward where we shall be living, the sisters just don't attend Relief Society until after they have a few children." "Then, my daughter, you be the first!" Daddy was ready to leave when Jane gave her promise. He smiled and added, "Janie dear, the Lord feels very strongly about this Relief Society meeting requirement. To a mature Latter-day Saint woman, Relief Society is just as important as Priesthood meeting is to the men of the Church. I know this is true. Do you know that my mother's father exacted a promise from her such as you have made tonight? She thanked her father hundreds and hundreds of times for the decision he helped her to make. Janie, I have always known the joy this organization has given my mother. Your mother, too, attended Relief Society, the Tuesday after we got back from our honeymoon; and, tonight, dear, you know where she is, at her Relief Society executive meeting at the church. Janie, at Relief Society, you will never learn anything false or wrong in any way. "My very beautiful little girl, I have been so very grateful, so pleased, so lucky to have a daughter like you! Your days in Sunday School, Primary, Mutual, Seminary, college, and teaching school in this town have brought you to this point. You are ready for your temple marriage. I love you, my girl, for your good decisions." Jane's father left the room, and Jane could feel that tears would soon be spilling out on the expensive white gown. She placed her wedding dress fondly on the bed, and kneeling, she thanked the Lord for her kind of a father and mother, who were even so old-fashioned that when she was going on her first "date," the whole family knelt down and prayed for her protection and safety. 122 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart \ Ge Chapter Two Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes that, in spite of the many material blessings enjoyed by the family, there is a need for spirituality. Sabra, a sensitive and thoughtful daughter, seems to be searching for something deep and satisfying in her life. @ When the candles were blown and the birthday songs silent, the children went reluctantly to bed. Jennie dressed again for the party and went downstairs. Rex looked up from his paper. "Do we have to go?" "No," said Jennie. She took off the mink stole and sat across from him. "I'm tired," Rex said. He rubbed his eyes. "The stock market is edgy. The world is edgy." He looked up, "But Sabra is better... She looks better, don't you think?" "Yes," said Jennie heavily. "But I wish they'd take her tonsils out." "Not until summer. With you, Jen?" Jennie got up and lit the gas under the logs and watched the blue flames come out and _ lick the bark. What's with me? She thought. What's with me, is that I have to ask Rex for something, What's and this is the first time that I have been afraid he would refuse me She came back and pulled a cushion from the couch and sat on it and leaned against his knee. "IT love you, Rex emptyheaded as I am I love you." "Likewise," he said gravely. He touched her bright hair. "So now, what is it? New drapes?" '"'When I was little,' she said slowly, "Father used to talk a lot about God and things." "Different, our family was the feckless sort." 'When I was little," she went on, "he used to teach me, about God and all that." "T thought you were a little odd ball when I first met you, and then I learned about how you had been brought up, and I could see it would have that effect, looking at it from a psychological point of view." 125 FEBRUARY 1966 "But looking at it from a spiritual point of view," said Jennie quietly, "is quite another matter. I've been very troubled about Sabra's action today. I feel we have failed her." '"We're happy," said Rex. "We are happy, and we're going to stay that way. We're what everyone dreams of being, rich, young, familied, with a proper assortment of friends, brains, and fun. Who could ask for more?" "Sabra," said Jennie. '"'She's always asking for more," Rex said shortly, "the books she reads.. Brain crackers for eighteen-year-olds."' "She's different." "Agreed. We'll have to channel her energies more." "How? Dancing, piano, speech, she's still hungry." "T know." He loves her, thought Jennie, as I love her, half pain, half pride, and all tenderness and fear. '"'She's not like the others. She needs more... Of something." "Let me go unearth my Phi Beta Kappa key." She sat away from him. "Do so. It won't feed her. What she's searching for isn't found where you found the key." '"'What she's searching for will lead her off on one tangent after another," said her father. Jennie turned to him quickly. ""Let me go back, Rex. Let me go back to my own Church, with my children! Let me see to it that they aren't drawn into something that will prove their undoing." "There was a youngster not quite like Sabra," Rex said slowly, his face troubled. "It was in high school... She finally committed suicide... She was brilliant, involved, and confused." 126 "I must take them back with me." Jennie lifted her face to his. '"Let me," she pleaded. He sat back and considered. "We said no religion ever when we married." "TI know," she nodded. "It was easy enough to say no religion... Like I won't ever eat again or I won't read another book. In love one promises impossible things." She lifted her eyes to his. "T still am that much in love." She bit her lip. "But now there are others besides myself involved." He kissed her gently. '""When you are tired your eyes get such an impossible blue and so enormous. Like Lora's, did you know?" He folded his arms. "I don't know anything about your Church... Not really." "T've forgotten a lot," she said, "and I am not good at explaining, but I remember how secure I felt as a child, with the Primary and the Sunday School lessons and Mother coming home from Relief Society after giving a lesson. It was my life." To her misery was added the longing for other years and other faces. "No," said Rex stubbornly, "TI have got to think this over." "Even if I could give them that much give Sabra that much.. It might keep her from those endless hours in her room." He was silent. "We could try it fora year, say,' Jennie was beginning to talk very fast, compulsively. "One year ought to tell us if it's the right or wrong way. Then we would know." He curled a strand of her hair in his fingers. "I was reading Nietsche today, his 'Thus Spoke Zarathustra. Even God, he claims, has his hell... It is his love for his children. I could agree with that feeling as I do for mine." They stopped talking and watched the fire. Jennie had the tightrope feeling again. Above all, beyond all, this must not cost a rift between them. Whatever it was, however it led, she must walk side by side with Rex. Rex said tonelessly, "Don Spangler's daughter ran away. Did you know that?" "Samantha told me." "And he's a psychiatrist... One of the best, in my opinion. But even he could not help his child." "' A year is such a little time," said Jennie. Her voice broke. "The world is such a confused and frightened world. We don't seem to hate anybody any more. Nor are we surprised by horror... We keep fighting and breaking the laws because we can't seem to help ourselves. Rex, it's the families who are the forts now.. The only fortresses against the tigers." "A year is short," Rex agreed. "At least we will have tried something. I was not brought up in a WHEAT FOR THE WISE church, so I can't evaluate its effect on the young mind." He rose and turned toward the fireplace. "If she were only like the others." "Her difference is the thing that will make her or break her," Jennie said reluctantly. 'The other children we can understand... But with Sabra we grope." "Only a year," he said huskily. "After that, we do it my way." "What is your way?" she asked in quick alarm. She watched him prepare the room for the night, turning off the fire, securing the windows. He was tall and quick and thin, his face was keen and intelligent, his friends were the best. Rex demanded the best. She could be sure of one thing—he would be watching and measur- -Ing, weighing and studying. But at least she had taken the first step and was still standing. Rex took her hand. "I'll be working on an alternate," he said, "a year wil give me insight and time." He grinned at her, "After all, it just came up this evening." She could not contradict him, but in herself she knew the problem had existed since their marriage, shelved. (To be continued) GENUINE LOVE Virginia Brown Genuine love is a spiritual commodity which demands no down payment by the recipient. The only required collateral security is need. Terms are extended infinitely, with an unconditional guarantee attached. Kindness and humility pay the interest. Wisdom adds daily to the investment. The pure in heart hold the franchise, and prospects are as numerous as the human race. Any idle moment marks the past due date with the end of eternity as expiration. 127 FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Danish Mission, Copenhagen and Jylland Districts Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, stands in the front row, seventh from the left: Lillian Krammer, Copenhagen District chorister, is seventh from the left in the second row; DeAnna Yates is pianist; and Inger Larsen, second from the left in the front row, is president of the Copenhagen District Relief Society. Sister Sorenson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Copenhagen and Jylland Districts are always eager to furnish music for the quarterly conferences. These sisters travel long distances, but are willing to give of their time and talents." Inger Fisher Rasmussen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society, with Edith Christensen as first counselor and Tova -Birhskov as secretarytreasurer. St. Joseph Stake (Arizona), Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society Mothers and Daughters Day June 1, 1965 Ileen Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that the Mothers and Daughters Day is a splendid way to introduce Relief Society to our teenage daughters. The girls enjoyed the lessons and the instructions in handicraft, especially learning to quilt. A potluck luncheon was served at noon." Manuela T. Mickelson is president of the Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society; Erdine Layton, First Counselor; Jeanene Flake, Second Counselor: Virginia Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Olive P. Hoopes, work meeting leader. Hayward Stake (California) Leadership Meeting September 24, 1965 Front row, left to right: Rexine Glenn, organist; Erma Neilsen, Work Counselor; Vera Crockett, President; Rose Winkle, Education Counselor; Edna Jelison, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Turek, literature class leader. Back row: Gwenn Webb, visiting teacher message leader; Georgene Moffitt, social science class leader; Catherine Russell, chorister; Anna Hoem, who made the Relief Society emblem featured in the center of the picture; Rama Lee, work meeting leader; Esther Kenison, theology class leader. Sister Crocket reports: "Our opening leadership meeting was a most spiritual occasion. The theme of the year's program—charity—was beautifully brought into focus by a large Relief Society emblem in blue and gold glass, surrounded by twelve miniature lights. Each board member, in turn, lighted a light, after giving a fitting quotation on our theme, and on her special assignment. Elder Delbert Wright, President of the Oakland Temple, was the guest speaker." 128 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. FEBRUARY 1966 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Visiting Teacher Convention September 11, 1965 Left to right: Lynda King, Los Lunas Branch, the youngest visiting teacher, age twenty; Betty Jean Steffensen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Maude Barb, the eldest active visiting teacher, age eighty-nine. Vera Mae K. Hamilton, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society, reports that an autumn motif and color scheme were used throughout the convention. The film "A Light Shining" was presented, and music was provided by the Albuquerque Third Ward Singing Mothers. Santa Monica Stake (California), La Cienega Ward Opening Social and Testimonial September 28, 1965 In the center of front row: Odette Coulam, honored President, with daughters Nancy Jex and Billie Morgan on either side; First Counselor Inis Turner, third from Sister Coulam's left; Second Counselor Melba Maynard, fourth from Sister Coulam's left; the new La Cienega Ward Relief Society President Evelyn Astle, first at the right on the front row; theology class leader Eloise Chalfont, second from the right, first row; Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, fifth from the right on the second row. Sister Bluth reports: "The "This Is Your Life' program was written and directed by Eloise Chalfont. The new ward president Evelyn Astle contacted over forty people who had served with Sister Odette Coulam during her seventeen years as ward and stake president. Many of these people traveled hundreds of miles to be in attendance. The mission of Relief Society was beautifully demonstrated by the portrayal of the life of Sister Coulam—this much-loved woman—in prose, poetry, and music. The large group who attended were uplifted and inspired by the dedication and devotion of this exemplary woman to so order their lives that they might become more active in Relief Society and invite others to participate with them." Yellowstone Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Relief Society Officers and Teachers at ''Preview of Lessons" September 8, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Beddes, Magazine representative; Della Davis, literature class leader; Anna Romrell, visiting teacher class leader; Deon Davis, social science class leader; Ruth Reynolds, theology class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Lisle L. Andrus, former president, Yellowstone Stake Relief Society; Ortella Clark, First Counselor; Jeanne Siddoway, Second Counselor; Mary B. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Stanford, work meeting leader; Naomi Jergensen, chorister; Betty Tibbits, organist; Roma Williams, who had charge of the film and photography. Sister Andrus reports: "There were 120 in attendance from eleven wards and the West Yellowstone Branch. The 'Preview of Lessons' was initiated four years ago by this board. The invitations, lesson ideas for the year, decorations, music, programs, and #efreshments have been organized under a special theme for that particular evening. The special themes for the four years have been: The Beautiful Lady in Blue; The Good Ship Relief Society; Keys to Wisdom; and 'Let There Be Light.' The September 1965 meeting was the highlight of Relief Society in Yellowstone Stake, and an outstanding spiritual experience." Denice Parker is the new president of Yellowstone Stake, and Sister Andrus is president of Ricks College Stake Relief Society. 130 PEt en Nee SO Ra EO EO ae A tee HO Ce Ane FEBRUARY 1966 Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho), First Ward Relief Society Opening Social October 21, 1965 Seated in front, left to right: Marie VanderBeek, First Counselor; Veloe Brasier, President; Carolyn Winn, Second Counselor. Second row: Gayle Sweat, organist; Gayla Olson, Magazine representative; Janet Dixon, social science class leader; Joyce Craig, work director; Jane Nielsen; Diane Perry, visiting teacher message leader. Carol D. Chase, President, Idaho State University Stake, reports that the invitations to the social were unique in the form of a ticket and carried a message of welcome to the Relief Society program: Come Aboard the Relief Society Train Tickets sold to: University First Ward sisters Boarding time: 7:15 p. M. October 21, 1965 Special feature of the trip: A special seat was reserved in the Relief Society lesson cars. Live entertainment in the lounge car, and a luncheon served in the dining car. Destination: A greater love and unity in our ward. Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Ward Presidencies at Leadership Meeting September 17, 1965 Seated, front row, left to right: Members of Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Board: Irma R. Harris, work meeting leader; M. Dianne Johns, Magazine representative; Hazel B. Gunderson, literature class leader; Phyllis G. Peters, visiting teacher message leader; Ethelyn M. Eagar, Second Counselor; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Julia W. Riggs, First Counselor; Ione J. Simonson, Secretary-Treasurer; Anne P. Riggs, theology class leader; Fayne N. Colyar, chorister; Barbara B. Brown, social science class leader. Standing are members of the presidencies of Glendale Second Ward, Phoenix Ninth Ward, Phoenix Tenth Ward, Phoenix Seventeenth Ward, Phoenix Nineteenth Ward, Phoenix Twenty-first Ward, and Phoenix Twentysixth Ward. Sister Winsor reports: "Of the seven ward presidents, six are new during this calendar year. In September the stake Relief Society presidency met with each ward presidency in a special meeting to discuss the individual responsibility of each member, the specific duties, and any questions pertaining to their calling. We feel a great deal was accomplished through these meetings, gaining a closer bond of sisterhood and love for each other, as well as greater unity and understanding between the ward and stake officers." Australian Mission, Canberra Branch Singing Mothers Present Music For the Opening of the New Chapel June 27, 1965 Front row, left to right: Nelly Earle, chorister; Valerie Jardie; Shauna Kelly; Wilma Hay; Nancy Francis; Dorothy Miles. Second row: Betty Dopson, President; Annie Stoker; Theda Anderson; Jean Vonthethoff, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Keenan, Second Counselor; Hilda Hay; Adelyne Smith. Back row, missionary sisters: Donna McAllister and Silvia Boelter. Seated at the piano: Lynne Grenville. Laurine A. Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society, reports that the opening of the Canberra chapel occurred before she arrived in the mission, and during the time that Vivian H. Coombs was the Relief Society supervisor in the mission. Fifteen sisters comprised the choir, and they sang "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" and "Each Cooing Dove." The singing was quite an achievement for these women, as they had been practicing together for only two months. The day will long be remembered by all those present. 132 FEBRUARY 1966 St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference September 29, 1965 Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture shows our Singing Mothers in the Tabernacle. The chorus sang 'O Divine Redeemer,' conducted by Francelle Boman, and 'One World,' conducted by Rosie B. Hall. Betty Jo LeSueur is stake organist. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied our singing in the Tabernacle, and is seated at the organ in the picture. "Our Relief Society stake counselors are Edith H. Eagar and Goldie West. Wanda H. Hall is secretary-treasurer. All of the officers sang with the chorus. Stake President Bryant Whiting and one of his Counselors, Elmo Jarvis, are seated with the group. Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society is also seated with us. She came to our stake to work with us, and from her we received inspiration as well as instruction. "There are nine wards in our stake, and sisters from each ward participated, some of them driving 260 miles to rehearsals. Each ward was responsible for its finances for the trip. They made their money through bake sales, serving family reunion dinners, and conventions. Also, they operated refreshment booths at rodeos and fairs, and two wards joined forces and planted, hoed, and harvested a patch of green corn. We feel that our appearance in the Tabernacle was a wonderful inspirational experience. We are grateful for it, and feel that it united us as sisters in the stake. We chartered three buses, and most of the 120 sisters, as well as our stake president, traveled to Salt Lake City by bus. 134 THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Fider Roy W. Doxey Lesson 72 — The First Presidency — Keys of the Kingdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 90, 91, 92) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To understand the place of the keys of the Priesthood INTRODUCTION In December 1832, the Lord instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith that all who should become members of the School of the Prophets should, by ordinance, be clean from the blood of this generation. (D&C 88:138-141.) They were told that wilful sinning would bring the penalty of being turned over to the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption. (DHC 1:323-324.) KNOWLEDGE AND SIN On March 8, 1833, the Lord gave Section 90 in which confirmation is made of blessings wherein forgiveness of sins was granted by the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith was informed _ that his sins were forgiven (verse 1), and both Sidney Rigdon and in the gospel plan. Frederick G. Williams were also given the same assurance. The Doctrine and Covenants Commentary brings our attention to the fact that the sins of these brethren were not serious, but as men learn more of their responsibilities in the Church and also advance in understanding of the need for closer observance to the commandments, they recognize wherein they may improve their lives. (Pages 576-577.) Is it not true that more knowledge of gospel principles brings the conviction by the Spirit that further efforts must be made to perfect one's life? THE KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD What are the "keys" of the Priesthood? Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received these keys at the hands of John the 135 FEBRUARY 1966 Baptist, Peter, James, and John and the heavenly visitants mentioned in Section 110. Without these powers the Lord's Church would not be a kingdom of order. With the prophet holding these powers throughout the world, he may direct the use of the Priesthood by every person who has received an ordination to the Priesthood. The ''keys'' constitute the power to direct the use of the Priesthood. An important principle, also, that every person should know is derived from an understanding of the functioning of these keys. No male ordained to the Priesthood may exercise this authority in performing ordinances unless he is given permission to do so. The Priesthood ordination bestows the power to act for the Lord, but the person's acts in using the Priesthood are not valid if the Church officer over him has not authorized him to use the Priesthood. For example, in the ordinance of baptism, even though one may be an ordained high priest, he cannot baptize unless the bishop of his ward or the presiding officer where he resides gives him permission to baptize. The bishop, in this case, holds the keys of authority in his ward. Similarly, a stake president holds keys for his stake. But, in both of these cases, neither bishop nor stake president has authority to function outside of the ward or stake over which he is set apart to preside. Thus, the powers of presiding, under the keys of the Priesthood, are limited to the jurisdiction given to the officer by the authority of the President of the Church. The prophet sees that the Lord's work is carried on throughout the world by confer- 136 ring local jurisdiction to the many officers who function under him. JOSEPH SMITH AND THE KEYS Six months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a revelation in which he instructed the Church that there is only one man at a time who holds all the keys of the Priesthood. At that time it was the First Elder of the Church—Joseph Smith. It was indicated in that revelation that the Prophet was to hold these powers "until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead" (D&C 28:7). Even the appointment of the Prophet to preside over the Church was to be done by the common consent of the Church, by the prayer of faith. (Ibid., verses 12-13.) Onehalf year passed and a situation arose in the Church that demanded a reiteration of the principle of one revelator for the Church. Another person claimed such a right, but the Lord's kingdom is one of order. In the course of this reaffirmation of this most important principle, the Lord said concerning Joseph Smith: And this ye shall know assuredly— that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me (Jbid., 43:3). Before the Quorum of the Twelve was appointed, the Lord made known that the Prophet would hold the keys of the kingdom throughout time. And eternity. Verily I say unto you, the keys of the kingdom shall never be taken from. You, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the church (Ibid., 90:3-4). THE TWELVE AND THE KEYS The expressions "oracles" and "even to the church" are explained. In this authoritative passage: In the plural it [oracles] means the Revelations given by God (Rom. 3:2; I Peter 4:11) Yet when the Prophet should be taken the "oracles" would be given to another, "'even to the Church." Therefore after the martyrdom the keys remained and were in possession of the Church and exercised through the presiding council, which at that time was the council of the Twelve Apostles, and in the Church the oracles are found and will continue unto the end of time (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 577). When the Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred, the President of the Twelve Apostles and the other members of the Twelve presided over the Church. What powers do the apostles possess which would give them authority to preside over the Church upon the death of the Prophet? Among others, President Wilford Woodruff has left his testimony of the conferring of the keys of the Priesthood by Joseph Smith upon the Twelve. The last speech that Joseph Smith ever made to the Quorum of the Apostles was in a building in Nauvoo, and it was such a speech as I never heard from mortal man before or since. He was clothed upon with the Spirit and power of God. His face was clear as amber. The room was filled as with consuming fire. He stood three hours upon his feet. Said he: "You Apostles of the Lamb of God have been chosen to carry out the purposes of the Lord on the earth. Now, I have received, as the Prophet, seer and revelator, standLESSON DEPARTMENT ing at the head of this dispensation, every key, every ordinance, every principle and every Priesthood that belongs to the last dispensation and fulness of times. And I have sealed all these things upon your heads. Now, you Apostles, if you do not rise up and bear off this kingdom, as I have given it to you, you will be damned." I am the only witness left on earth that can bear record of this, and I am thankful that I have lived to see the day in which I stand (Conference Report April 1898, page 89). What process continued the existence of the keys of the Priesthood following the martyrdom of the Prophet? At the time of the ordination of each apostle he is given all of the Priesthood authority received by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The conferring of the keys of the Priesthood does not diminish the Priesthood of the person performing the ordination. There are thousands of elders holding the same authority. Similarly, there may be many who hold the keys of the Priesthood, as the Twelve Apostles, but there is only one person at a time who holds these keys actively; that is, to receive revelation for the Church and to direct its activities. The Twelve Apostles hold these keys inactively; that is, they use these latter authorities when called upon by the President of the Church, and when the President dies, they use these powers to appoint the new President of the Church by revelation. THE KEYS AND WORTHINESS President Joseph F. Smith discussed these powers and the need for worthiness on the part of him who holds them, as indicated in verse 5 of Section 90. 137 FEBRUARY 1966 If any man in that position should become unfaithful, God would remove him out of his place. I testify in the name of Israel's God that He will not suffer the head of the Church, him whom He has chosen to stand at the head, to transgress His laws and apostatize; the moment he should take a course that would in time lead to it, God would take him away. Why? Because to suffer a wicked man to occupy that position, would be to allow, as it were, the fountain to become corrupted, which is something He will never permit. And why will he not suffer it? Because it is not the work of Joseph Smith; it is not the work of Brigham Young or of John Taylor. It is not the work of man but of God Almighty; and it is His business to see that the men who occupy this position are men after His own heart, men that will receive instructions from Him, and that will carry out the same according to the counsels of His will (Journal of Discourses 24:192). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY ORGANIZED On March 18, 1833, ten days after Section 90 was received, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President, Sidney Rigdon, First Counselor, and Frederick G. Williams, Second Counselor. The Prophet recorded the event in_ these words:. I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my Counselors; after which I exhorted the brethren to faithfulness and diligence in keeping the comfnandments of God (DHC TI: 304). KEYS AND PRESIDENCY When the First Presidency meets as a quorum, the brethren act by reason of the keys of the kingdom. The Lord has revealed wherein this quorum's decisions would be valid—and also the 138 Council of the Twelve and the First Council of the Seventy— only by the unanimous voice of each member of the quorum. Then the virtues which should influence righteous decisions were also enumerated, such as meekness, patience, godliness, and so forth. (D&C 107:27-31.) When the President dies, the Quorum of the First Presidency no longer exists. This is what the Prophet Joseph Smith said in a meeting with the Twelve Apostles on January 26, 1836:... The Twelve are not subject to any other than the first Presidency... And where I am not, there is no First Presidency over the Twelve (DHC II:374). From the foregoing, it is clear that the counselors act under the direction of the President, and their authority exists only as long as there is a President. Otherwise, they, if apostles in the Quorum of the Twelve, return to their places of seniority in that quorum. The Twelve Apostles, holding the keys of the Priesthood, become the active leaders of the Church, with the President of the Twelve being in charge of the Church and the other members of the Twelve as counselors until the Quorum of the First Presidency is organized. In all matters the President of the Church presides; his counselors assist him. In the following verse the Lord sets forth clearly the powers of the President. And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom (D&C 90: 16). At this time (March 1833) the First Presidency was to hold not only the keys of the Church but also the keys to the School of the Prophets. (D&C 90:7.) But in both of these administrations Joseph Smith was to preside. (Ibid., verses 12-13.) THE PAST AND THE FUTURE Through the work of the First Presidency, preparation for giving the gospel of salvation to the inhabitants of Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) and to the nations was to go forth. Other nations were to hear the message through the missionaries who were to present the gospel to the Gentiles, first, and then to the Jews.- (D&C 90:8-9.) This instruction is in fulfillment of prophecy. With the complete fulfillment of this prophecy, yet future, the Lord's power will be demonstrated in the bringing about of a paradisiacal environment, which will characterize the millennial reign of the Savior. The gospel shall be taught in that day in the various languages. (Verses 10- 11.) OTHER DUTIES OF THE PROPHET At an earlier date the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in the "translation" (revision) of the Bible. The Prophet's present responsibility was to work on this revision and then to attend to his other duties. Only some of the responsibilities of the Prophet are mentioned in this revelation to indicate ways in which he was to preside over the affairs of the Church. The President of the Church is to receive revelation and thus to make known the mysteries of the kingdom. (D&C 90:13-14.) Here ~ LESSON DEPARTMENT again is repeated the important principle that the Prophet is to receive revelation for the Church and to "'set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom" (verse 16). Significant among the Prophet's duties was this counsel, which would be applicable to all members of the Church:. And study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people (Verse 15). Applicable to the Latter-day Saint is the admonition to beware of pride. To set one's house in order means to overcome the weaknesses which prevent close communion with the Holy Ghost. A part of this endeavor is to be clean in body and mind and to be industrious. (Verses 17-18.) TEMPORAL INSTRUCTIONS Verses 19 through 33 contain several instructions concerning temporal matters. For example, Frederick G. Williams was to have a home for his family; the debts of the Lord's storehouse were to be paid; and counsel was given on the number who should be accommodated in the home of Joseph Smith, Sr. In verse 25 the meaning of "let your families be small" pertains to those not of his immediate family who were receiving lodging in his home. Reference is made to Vienna Jacques, the only woman other than the Prophet's wife, Emma, who is mentioned by name in the Doctrine and Covenants. (Ibid., 90: 28-31.) She was to go to Jackson County, Missouri, and receive a stewardship from the bishop. 139 FEBRUARY 1966 IMPORTANCE OF COVENANTS An outstanding message in Section 90 is the following: Search diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another (Verse 24). The expression "the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another" has at least two meanings. First, when one enters the Church by baptism he covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord. The member of the Church who does not continue in this agreement no longer represents the Lord and, thus, his actions cast reflection upon all members who are endeavoring to demonstrate their true citizenship in the kingdom. Secondly, the agreement to work for the salvation of the living and the dead was also made in the preearth life. "Joseph Smith, by revelation, instructed the Saints and said that the Lord 'ordained and prepared' the means, 'before the foundation of the world, for the salvation of the dead who should die without a knowledge of the Gospel.' "' (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Way to Perfection, page 176.) ZION WARNED In the concluding verses of this revelation, a warning was given to Zion that if she did not repent, she would be chastened until she was clean. (D&C 90:34-37.) The literal fulfillment of this prophecy is history. The saints were literally driven from Missouri because of their transgressions. (Ibid., 101:1-8; 105:1-10.) 140 Many of the prophets, subsequent to the expulsion of the members of the Church from Missouri, have applied this warning to us of a later period. Among these was President Wilford Woodruff, who said: We have been favored, as no other people have, with wise counsels. Their extent and variety are immeasurable. They cover every department of human life. So far as we have observed them, prosperity and happiness have been the results. Whatever difficulties we may have to contend with to-day are due, if not wholly, at least in great part, to our disregard of them (An Epistle of the Council of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Semi-annual Conference, October 10, 1887, page 9). SECTION 91 While the Prophet was revising the scriptures, he inquired of the Lord concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament. These books, being of uncertain origin, were once a part of the Protestant Bible, and they continue to be in the Douay version (Catholic). Section 91 informs us that although the books in the main were translated correctly there were many additions by the hands of men. It was unnecessary for the Apocrypha to be revised, the Prophet was advised, but by the Spirit the reader could distinguish between the truth and the spurious. SECTION 92 This revelation is a commandment that Frederick G. Williams be received as a'member of the United Order. The expression "you shall be a lively member" is a first principle with Latterday Saints. They know that the active member receives the manifold blessings of participation, one of which is to know that a commandment is being lived. (D&C 42:40.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the keys of the Priesthood? Who, today, holds these keys? 2. What provision has the Lord LESSON DEPARTMENT made for the continuation of the keys of the Priesthood although the President of the Church dies? 3. Discuss: "Remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another." 4. What warning did the Lord give in Section 90 that is applicable to us today? 5. What value do you think Sections 91 and 92 are to you? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 72 — '"'He that Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken" (D&C 88:83) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the @ Both King David and his son Solomon realized the wisdom of seeking and finding the Lord early in their lives. David, the psalmist, sang, "O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee" (Psalms 63:1). Solomon records, "T [the Lord] love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me" (Proverbs 8:17). David, who became one of the greatest of all Israel's kings, sought the Lord while he was very young and thus became a chosen vessel. When the great prophet Samuel, who also had sought and found the Lord early, was searching for a future king to take Saul's place, he came to Lord as early as possible in our lives. Bethlehem. By commandment of the Lord he sought one of Jesse's seven sons. Jesse, the proud father, brought his sons before Samuel and thought surely the Lord would choose his eldest. "But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Samuel 16:7). The Lord had chosen David because he had sought him early while still only a boy and his heart was fully in tune with the Lord's spirit. 141 FEBRUARY 1966 When Solomon, as a_ very -young man, was selected to succeed his father David as the king of Israel, he, too, had sought and found the Lord early in his life: "Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father' (I King 3:3). In response to the Lord's call, Solomon said, "And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my Father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in" (I Kings 3:7). Solomon then petitioned the Lord that he be given an understanding heart so that he would be wise in judging and guiding his people. It is a significant fact that so many of the great leaders in the Lord's work have sought and found the Savior early in their lives. Jesus himself was about his Father's business when he was only twelve. The Prophet Joseph Smith opened the door for the restoration of the gospel and ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times when he was only fourteen. Why is it that the Lord admonishes us to seek him early? Surely one reason is that in our youth our minds and spirits are more malleable and_ teachable. At an early age our minds are not cluttered with misinformation which builds doubt and scepticism. Obviously another reason is that the earlier we seek and find the Lord the longer we will have to grow and develop under the influence of his spirit. Certainly the presence of the Lord's spirit is a great blessing and we should seek to enjoy it as early as possible. We must not procrastinate. For as the prophet Amulek declared, 'I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance" (Alma 34:33). Also, through his modern Prophet, the Lord has declared "behold, I come quickly and they who have sought me early shall find rest to their souls" (D&C 54:10). The important conclusion we must draw from this instruction from our Father in heaven is that we must seek the Lord earnestly and diligently if we expect to find him. Under his divine plan of personal free agency, he will not force himself upon us. He will come to us only if we sincerely and wholeheartedly seek him. IN A SECRET POOL Lael W. Hill Having lost much, The heart learns cherishing Of small treasure.. As, after the great green Tumult of the tide, Edge of shore left lonely Holds in a secret pool Tag-ends of seaweed And broken little shells. 142 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness; (A Continuation) For Second Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To discuss and demonstrate various cleaning techniques and procedures and to show the value of efficient cleaning INTRODUCTION A clean orderly home lifts the heart and spirit. The scriptures speak of a house which is "swept and garnished," and Oliver Goldsmith, English poet, writes fondly of "his lov'd partner" and the "cleanly board." Latter-day Saint women have long been known for their thrift and industry in caring for their homes. "It will last longer if it's clean," echoes their feelings as they strive to protect and beautify the home and its furnishings. Decisions pertaining to cleaning equipment and supplies and specific cleaning _ must be made constanty. DOES EASY DO IT? The housewife is often confronted with an amazing and confusing array of cleaning equipment and supplies. These aids may be helpful, but sometimes they represent a poor investment, and over a period of equipment and supplies. Time do not prove to be the easiest and most efficient, after all. Most home equipment specialists agree that other than a good vacuum cleaner, equipped with attachments for dusting and dry soil removal and "getting into" difficult spots, cleaning equipment and supplies should represent a nominal investment. To Discuss: 1. What questions might you ask yourself to determine whether purchase: of new cleaning equipment and supplies is justifiable? Note to leaders: Try to elicit the following question responses from the class—How often will I use it? Can I use it for more than one cleaning job? Will it save more time than another article which I already own? Will it be easy to use or operate, to carry, and to store? Will it eliminate heavy work such as stooping, bending, lifting, and stretching? In terms of the saving of time and effort is the cost reasonable? 2. How would you advise a young couple relative to the cleaning equipment and supplies which they should buy in setting up housekeeping in a 143 FEBRUARY 1966 small 'apartment in your locality? These might be listed quickly on the chalkboard under "Item" and "Why Chosen." It might be pointed out by the leader that rebuilt vacuum cleaners, if purchased from a reputable dealer, are much less expensive than new ones and are quite satisfactory. (A re-built machine is constructed of good used parts.) TRICKS OF THE TRADE 1. Are you a water enthusiast? Too much water, used time after time, for washing floors can be damaging to wood and other substances. 2. Use abrasive scouring pads sparingly and only when absolutely necessary on surfaces and floors, as they tend to destroy finishes. 3. A snowy bright dishcloth (in most cases it is a cloth, not a rag) can give you a lift as you work about the kitchen. If your dishcloth gets dingy between washings, soak it in a small amount of water to which a little chlorine bleach has been added (according to directions). The sink is ideal for this; both cloth and sink will be brightened. Rinse well. 4. A heavy coat of furniture wax (it is actually composed of several thin layers) will prove to be tender, loving care for furniture surfaces. It will help the wood resist spots, stains, and scratches. Tables of: all kinds, especially those used for dining, are protected in this manner. A little additional wax and "elbow grease" will remove old layers of wax. Always polish funiture with the grain of the wood. There are a few new wood finishes, however, which should not be waxed. Your furniture dealer will direct you. 5. Add two or three tablespoons of vinegar to a bucket of water in cleaning windows. It will clean efficiently and make them shine. Use this same solution on linoleum floors between soap washings. It will keep wax removal to a minimum. Many housewives like to polish windows with crumpled newspaper, or a chamois may be used for the complete operation, rather than a cloth. 6. Remove scratches from dark furniture by dyeing with iodine or a commercial preparation. For lighter woods apply the cut surface of a wal- 144 nut or a Brazil nut, or use a commercial scratch remover "stick." Mineral oil will help to conceal scratches on natural woods. 7. A mild, simple cleaning agent for general cleaning consists of soap jelly made by dissolving one cup of mild soap flakes, soap shavings, or detergent in one quart of boiling water. Pour into a wide-mouthed container and when congealed, use for various cleaning needs. Many modern women still prefer using their own homemade soap for both cleaning and laundry purposes. 8. A very effective cleaning solution for medium and dark colored natural wood finishes is one quart of hot water, three tablespoons of boiled linseed oil (available at paint and hardware stores), and one tablespoon of turpentine. Apply sparingly with a cloth, keeping moisture away from glued joints, until soil is removed. Polish with a clean, dry, soft cloth. 9. To remove grease spots from wallpaper use dry cleaning fluid sparingly (use the non-flammable cleaner.) If spots do not respond, apply French chalk or dry magnesia (available at drug stores) mixed with the dry cleaning fluid. Use a minimum of the fluid, keeping mixture just moist enough to adhere to the wall. Allow to dry and brush off. More than one application may be necessary. Experiment in an inconspicuous place first to see if paper will spot from the cleaning fluid. This method is usually very effective. 10. Sponges have many uses in cleaning. They are easy to handle, leave no lint, and can be squeezed dry with one hand. The newer cellulose sponges are less expensive than the natural ones. 11. Commercially treated cloths for quick touch-up metal polishing are great time savers. 12. One-half cup of ground glue added to a gallon of hot water will clean lightly soiled natural finished woodwork without harming the finish. It is especially fine for knotty pine and other natural finishes. The solution comes off with the next washing. To Discuss: Case Study: Mr. And Mrs. Allen are a retired couple. Their average- sized home is the happy gathering place for their married children and grandchildren, and bears the stamp of being truly "lived in." How would you solve Mrs. Allen's cleaning problems, giving the cleaning product to be used, the equipment, if any, and the method: 1. Several small food and grease spots on the off-white, plain textured wallpaper in the living room (may have been soiled at a recent family buffet supper). The paper bears the label 'washable,' which means very limited use of moisture. 2. All-over soil on the floral patterned, cotton tapestry-covered lounge chair in living room. 3. Scratches and some removal of finish from legs and rungs of dining chairs. 4. Black marks from shoes on the asphalt tile in the combination dining and family room. 5. An accumulation of hard water marks on the outside of the kitchen bay window, caused by the spray from the garden hose. SUMMARY Homemaking and _ housekeeping constitute the biggest business in the world today. Try the new, but hold fast to the old if it serves your purpose. Find the very best way of cleaning everything in your home. When you LESSON DEPARTMENT have problems, consult those people whose specialty it is to help you—the home economics departments of your local high school or university, government bulletins, dealers in home furnishings, the press, and, of course, the many delightful books and homemaking magazines. Housekeeping is truly everybody's business. To Do and Think About: 1. As part of the activities for the work meeting, a committee might demonstrate all or part of the following: (It might be well to use both commercial and homemade cleaning products) A. Cleaning and _ polishing of various metals such as aluminum, silver, brass, copper, etc. B. Shampooing of a small throw rug—it might be well to show a rug which has previously been shampooed by the same method and is now dry. C. Cleaning, removal of scratches, and polishing of a piece of furniture in Relief Society room, or a small piece of furniture brought from home. Two or more furniture finishes and/or colors in furniture might be used. D. The cleaning of any other items which it is felt would be beneficial to the class. SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5 (Lesson 17 in Series) — Two Worlds As One For Third Meeting, May 1966 For the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966 Objective: To point out the need and the benefits of sharing one's world in the bettering of human relationships. LESSON 4 FOLLOW-UP previous month; namely, writing personal history or obtaining other material for making a Book Discuss, briefly, progress made on Home-Doing suggestions of 145 FEBRUARY 1966 of Remembrance which will meet suggested requirements. INTRODUCTION Although most marriage partners in our culture normally begin their marriage loving each other, something happens to an increasing number of these marriages which causes the husbandwife relationship to deteriorate. Too often the results are separation or divorce. Far too often the early dream of togetherness results in a situation in which each member of the partnership seems to be iiving in a separate world. This lesson discusses how natural differences in the roles of man and of woman tend to create two distinct worlds, and offers some suggestions for making these mold into a composite world of. Mutual satisfaction. DIVERGENT INTERESTS At the time of marriage, personal aspirations and divergent interests, often, may be completely set aside in the prospect of a joyous life, lived together and for each other. The marriage partners, moreover, may be unaware of the cultural pattern in our society which tends to separate a couple—as the independent roles of wife and of husband become established, most of their waking hours are spent in spheres of widely divergent interest. The husband's activities focus upon making a living for the family. Only occasionally do his activities or employment take place within the home. Often the work may require hours of daily commuting, or it may take him 146 to distant areas prolonging the period of separation from his wife and family. The woman's activities center in the home. Within her domestic world, she is concerned with the details of homemaking and of child rearing. She is expected to make a good home, attending to all phases of housekeeping and homemaking. Thus, two independent worlds develop wherein each marriage partner often plays a role quite independent of the other. The foregoing division of responsibility has been general throughout the centuries. Today, however, women in many countries also may be employed outside their homes. Individual circumstances may motivate a woman to share the financial responsibility of the family. 1. A young married woman may need to work temporarily in order that her husband may complete his college education. 2. Physical disability of the husband may require a woman to work for an indefinite period. In such case, the husband often may assume some of the household duties. 3. A woman whose children are married, may assume financially remunerative civic or industrial positions in order to occupy her spare time. Mention other circumstances. CLASS ACTIVITY With this overlapping of the traditional roles of husband and wife — 1. What may bring the couple into closer relationship? 2. What may tend to separate them? 3. What is the importance of the ability of the individuals involved to adjust to the situation? Do you think the following steps that a couple may realistically take, in our society, will help their companionship grow closer rather than apart? 1. Both husband and wife should become aware of the forces that tend to separate them. 2. They should plan and_ take positive steps to offset these forces. FORCES THAT SEPARATE Problem Illustration No. 1 Grievances such as the following are not uncommon: Wife: My husband is so wrapped up in his business affairs that I feel alone, and completely left out of his world. He never tells me anything about his work. When I tell him how I feel about this, he says it's hard enough to work through the day and he doesn't want to relive it all at night. Were you the wife of this husband, what might you do to help him sense your desire to be a part of his "making a living world''? Suggestions: 1. You might show your interest in his work by asking questions at more appropriate times. 2. You might. Offer to entertain some of his associates. 3. You might tell him how proud you are that he is so competent in his field of activity, and that you would like to know more about how he accomplishes so much. 4. You might express your need for his help in household budgeting. Problem Illustration No. 2 Wife: When we were married, my husband and I both felt that we had Many interests in. Common. We took occasional hiking trips into the hills, LESSON DEPARTMENT danced, went to the movies (cinema) and to the symphony. We _ even printed our own kodak pictures. Life has become more complicated with several children, and we feel that we cannot now afford some of these enjoyments. In fact, all my husband wants to do when he comes home from work is to eat his dinner, read the paper, perhaps watch TV, and go to bed. We never have any fun together. I have been at home all day, settling children's petty quarrels, doing housework, and I need some diyersion—the lift that a change of scene would give. Obviously, the needs of this husband for relaxation and his wife's need for diversion are real, although completely opposite. 1.. Can these opposite needs be met satisfactorily? 2. How can this wife help her husband to see that both needs are reasonable and can be met with satisfaction to each? Suggestions: 1. Express more sympathetic understanding of his need for relaxation, and appreciation for his desire to be at home. 2. Suggest that perhaps they could plan for and spend one evening out together each week, which would meet her need for some diversion outside the home. FOR TWO ONLY All couples deserve and should reserve for themselves some little time for private discussions of their personal goals. This can be a most rewarding experience and should produce tangible benefits. Comment of a wife who motivates such private discussions follows: Wife: Now that I know Bob's secret dream and aspirations, I am more sympathetic with his varying moods. I try to ease tensions within the home when I sense. That he is 147 FEBRUARY 1966 worried or deeply concerned about his work. Innumerable men have profited from sharing their objectives and short-range plans with their wives by receiving genuine cooperation. Give concrete examples. FRIEND TO FRIEND The willingness to share one's world has meaning in relationships other than that of husband and wife. One meaning of its present use is to possess or enjoy in common. This implies that all who are involved in_ the sharing shall receive some degree of satisfaction—that which is shared need not be limited to material possessions, but may include information, confidences, aspirations, etc. Note the following comments: Friend A: Agnes R— is a very dear but lonely person. She is not an intimate friend, but often I bring her a gift from my travels to assure her she has my interest and affection. Recently she came to visit me but, seeing that I was preparing to leave for a social appointment, she said she would come at another time. She seemed to be in a state of anxiety, although she did not say so. Shortly afterwards she moved to another town and I have recently learned that she is ill as a result of personal misfortune. Questions: 1. If my appointment easily could have been postponed, should I have offered to do so? 2. If it were necessary that I keep the appointment, should I have attempted to arrange for a definite return visit? 3. How much more valuable would have been the gift of myself—my understanding in sharing her world of anxiety—than purchased gifts I have given her. 148 The gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three,— Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me" (LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL: The Vision of Sir Launfal). "The only gift is a portion of thyself" (EMERSON, RALPH WALDO). Friend B: I had always felt that Claire M--- was a person of undeveloped, even undiscovered ability. Once when I was engaged in an interesting handicraft project I decided to invite her to my home. She replied that she had plenty of time but no talent for doing such things. As she watched each detail of the creative process, I saw her eyes light with interest. She wanted to try doing it also. Her skill with a brush was promising and imaginative. Each of - us sensed that a field of new interest and accomplishment lay before her. Claire is now an _ expert painter, especially adept at restoring timedamaged designs on antique trays to their original beauty. How rewarding to have a casual friendship enriched by this shared interest. How grateful we both are that I made the effort to share my world of creativity with her! Give other examples from your own experience. THE MORE TIME YEARS While many women find their middle and later years as filled with interesting activity as were the earlier periods of their lives, there are millions of women for whom this is not so. Often they may find that when the children are married or away at college, and their own household duties greatly diminished, they have many hours for optional use. They may wonder, for the first time in their lives, what to do with their time. These hours can become invaluable to the woman who knows how to use them constructively. Self-appraisal by a Latterday Saint woman may reveal: 1. Inherent talents, neglected during the years of child rearing, schoolteaching, or other professional employment. 2. The —§ opportunity neglected) to engage genealogical work. 3. The need to enrich the relationships of friend to friend, neighbor to neighbor, or wife to husband. 4. The opportunity to give increased Church service. (previously actively in Case Studies of the "Empty Nest' Years Woman #1: When our last child "fluttered" from the nest, I began somehow to feel less needed, less useful. Looking around for activities to fill this particular void, I soon discovered that I stood upon the threshold of a wonderfully enriching world. I decided to do two things: 1. Bring more of the outside world into my home and my own thinking by reading what I had never before had time to read. (What would you choose to read?) 2. Enrich my world by sharing it with my neighbors and fartheraway friends. (How might this be done?) Woman #2: With no children to monopolize mealtime conversation, my husband and I suddenly realized how many of our responses revolved around our children's lHves and _ interests. We sat at the table for several Mornings in almost strained silence— like familiar strangers. "What will you be doing at work today?" I finally asked. "Same things as yesterday," he replied drably., This was hardly enlightening, since I did not know what he did yesterday. "How about you?" he asked. "Same thing as_ yesterday, grocery shopping," I replied. What an enthusiastic way to greet a new day! Surely an undernourished relationship needed to be _ strengthened and enriched. Plus LESSON DEPARTMENT I knew that many couples recognize the value of shared hobbies in keeping their relationship progressively satisfying. That evening I listed them thus: gardening, home _ decorating, golfing, wood refinishing, handicrafts, fishing, television viewing, music, and painting. Some of these were readily ruled out as unsuitable for us. Some were interests of earlier years and might be pleasantly reactivated. We are not artists, we are not musicians, we are not expert craftsmen, but we are molding a world of appreciation for these arts by seeing, listening, and working together. Woman #3: I know that love is the strongest of all motivating agents and that where a marriage is_ solidly based, the middle years may become a rich flowering of the marital relationship. I have begun to show my husband I am interested in his world, and I now compliment him for virtues which I have taken for granted for years. As a result, we now share more than the same salary, more than the same house—we are sharing two distinct, but interesting worlds. Woman #4: Tom is too practical for poetry, I have often said. Just too practical. He doesn't really dislike it, I suppose. He is just indifferent to it. One day, a few months ago, I came home from Relief Society brimming with enthusiasm for The Ancient Mariner, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, which we had discussed in meeting. I introduced Tom to the moral aspects of the poem, even read a few stanzas, the ones I like best. That was the beginning of a shared interest. Last night he brought me a gift. (No, it was not my birthday!) Just a surprise gift. I opened the parcel breathlessly. It was, of all surprises, a book of poems. Upon the flyleaf he had copied these famous lines from Robert Browning: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, "A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" 149 FEBRUARY 1966 Think what I would have missed, had I not invited him into my world! SUMMARY Since there are many forces in our society which may tend to separate, unless couples consciously or by special temperament or intuition, take steps to safeguard and preserve their interest in and affection for each other, their respective roles may tend to move them apart. This tendency to grow apart, however, can be overcome. Attention to small but important factors often is all that is necessary. Aside from the binding force of religion and of children, changing one's attitude and actions, even in small ways, may work the miracle. The teenage son who resents certain tasks because he doesn't get thanked for doing what his mother says he should naturally do, may become the husband who doesn't like to be taken for granted; who would appreciate being thanked for what he considers are special favors, however small they may be. He deserves such thanks. "Thank you," "Please," "I do appreciate," "I'm sorry," and "I love you," which are the magic words of childhood do not lose their potency by overuse or through the years. They remain the ever magic key to happy adult relationships. Latter-day Saints truly are blessed in their knowledge that the union of husband and wife may be eternal and they should make every effort to minimize the temporal forces that tend to separate. With this concept ever in mind, they will realize that the roles of husband and of wife really need not be separate, for they are interdependent, each complementing the other. They will know that gospel living is the great factor which can effectively mold and maintain their two worlds as one. FOR DISCUSSION The following questions, in addition to those which arise in the class discussion: 1. Excluding religion, what one factor do you consider most important in maintaining: a. A happy marriage relationship? B. A happy friend-to-friend relationship? FOR HOME DOING 1. Initiate one activity which may become a mutual interest for you and your husband; for you and a neighbor friend. 2. Invite, in some subtle way, husband or friend to share in some present interest of your world. Note results. 3. Enlarge your own world by reading or listening to facts about your husband's or a friend's special interest. PETITION Dear Lord, bless me that I may make this portion of eternity beautiful and happy to those I love and for those whose lives touch mine. 150 —Patricia Sykes LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 15—Facing Death—Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 443-444 and 448-472) For Fourth Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To help us view death with confident @ The lesson for this month covers five short poems and one longer poem, plus excerpts from four other poems—all concerned with the subject of death. As Latter-day Saints we understand that there are two deaths: physical death, which is the temporary separation at the close of mortality of the spirit from the body; and spiritual death. We also understand that all people, however righteous or sinful, will, through the _ resurrection of Christ, triump over physical death to a reuniting of the spirit and the body at the time of resurrection. Triumph over spiritual death through the atonement of Christ is also available to all people, but only those who repent of their sins and obediently live the laws and ordinances of the gospel will fully overcome spiritual death and live in eternal exaltation in the celestial kingdom. In earlier lessons we have seen how literature explores the problem of sin and triumphs over sin. This lesson is concerned, more affirmation rather than with dread. Particularly, with physical death and the assistance that literature can give in cultivating healthy attitudes towards it. ATTITUDES IN DEATH Probably the most solemn experience shared by all humanity is the inescapable fact of death —which comes to every mortal being. How we as human beings act and react in the face of death is and has always been one of the principal concerns of literature. Even more than love, death has been the central focus of literally thousands of novels, dramas, stories, and poems. In their views on death, writers tend to reflect the variant attitudes of people as a whole. Sometimes they fear it as mysterious and unknown, or look forward to it as a step toward eternal progression. Sometimes they dread it as a condition or suffering in consequence of mortal sin, or anticipate it as a place of bliss after mortal suffering. Some are 151 FEBRUARY 1966 merely curious about it, or defiant of it, or resigned to it. Others treat it tenderly and some brutally. Still others speak of it optimistically or pessimistically, sometimes with sad beauty, and sometimes with grotesque ugliness. Theologically, a writer may either look on death as the end of existence, or he may look on it as a doorway to continued life. On pages 448-452 of Out of the Best Books are printed excerpts from four poems by James Thomson, Edward Fitzgerald, A. C. Swinburne, and Robinson Jeffers which give extremely negative and pessimistic views on death, ranging from hedonism (the doctrine that pleasure is the highest good), to nihilism (total disbelief in religion or in established laws). The reason these are included in the text is that the beauty and truth of the affirmative poems with which this lesson is primarily concerned are heightened by the powerful contrast of the negative poems. AFFIRMATIVE VIEWS ON DEATH For a full printing and discussion of the six poems developing attitudes fundamentally harmonious with the gospel, the reader will need to-see pages 453-472 of Out of the Best Books. Space here will: permit only briefer treatment, but still sufficient to feel the basic faith of these poets. First let us turn to Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616): Poor soul, the center of my sinful earth, Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth, 152 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? " Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross: Within be fed, without be rich no more. So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men, And Death once dead, there's no more dying then. This poem is not difficult as soon as we realize that the word "soul" refers to what we normally call the spirit, and that the '"'sinful earth" is the physical body, which in line 9 is also referred to as the "servant" of the soul. Shakespeare, in vivid, eloquent language is appealing for us to stop wasting so much time, money, and concern on the "fading mansion" of our body; rather we should cultivate the growth of the spirit within. For surely a tenant would be foolish to spend a fortune on a rented mansion with only a short-term lease. Therefore, Shakespeare concludes, '"'Within be fed, without be rich no more." This central idea of the poem is summarized in the beautiful closing couplet asserting that men should "feed on Death, that feeds on men"— that is, look through death to the life beyond, for once death is experienced, men will live immortally. JOHN DONNE'S SONNET ON DEATH The sonnet 'Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne (1571- 1631) is similar in both manner and language to Shakespeare's sonnet: Death, be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so; 'Fo those whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow 'Die not, poor Death; nor yet canst thou kill me. Form rest and sleep, which but thy pictures be, Much pleasure; then from thee much more must flow; And soonest our best men with thee do go— Rest of their bones and souls' delivery! Thou art slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men, And dost with poison, war, and sickness dwell; And poppy or charms can make us sleep as well And better than thy stroke. Swell'st thou then? One short sleep past, eternally, And Death shall be no more: thou shalt die! Why we wake Death, Death is here personified as proud and arrogant in its seeming triumph over life, but "Be not so" says the poet. '""'Those whom you think you conquer do not really die. Your victory is temporary and incomplete. You cannot really kill men; for after a short sleep in the grave, we wake eternally. Then death is no more. Indeed, death itself shall die!"' A MODERN POET'S VIEW Shakespeare's and Donne's sonnets were written centuries ago, but modern poets have also lifted their voices in exultation that life ultimately triumphs over death rather than vice versa. One of the strongest modern voices has been that of the great Welsh poet Dylan Thomas (1914-1953), LESSON DEPARTMENT whose powerful 'And Death Shall Have No Dominion" is printed on page 457 of the text. In the poem, Thomas vigorously declares the power of life over the power of death. Though the body be lost in the depths of the sea or smashed into fragments or otherwise totally destroyed, yet that which is vital and eternal shall live on—''And death shall have no dominion." Though even the mind, broken by disease or experience, may go mad, yet it shall be restored to its full faculties—"And death shall have no dominion." Moreover, not only life, but also the ideals we live by, are eternal: lovers may be untrue, men may lose their faith, and evil may dominate a human personality; but still Love and Faith and Goodness shall live on—"''And death shall have no dominion." ROBERT BROWNING AFFIRMS IMMORTALITY This month's lesson also covers two poems, 'Prospice' and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," by Robert Browning (1812-1889), whose vigorous affirmation of life's values here and hereafter we have already seen at various times earlier in these lessons during the past two years. '"Prospice'' is sufficiently brief that it can be printed in full here: Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat, | The mist in my face, When the snows begin, and the blasts denote I am nearing the place, The power of the night, the press of the storm, The post of the foe; Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form, Yet the strong man must go. 153 FEBRUARY 1966 For the journey is done and the summit attained, And the barriers fall, Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained, The reward of it all. I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more, The best and the last! I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forbore, And bade me creep past. No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers, The heroes of old, Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears Of pain, darkness, and cold. For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave, The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiendvoices that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! This little poem, whose title means "look forward," is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude towards the experience of death: he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem, as with great confidence, Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ('"O thou soul of my soul'), who had recently died. In order fully to understand and appreciate this poem, we need to know that it grows out of the extraordinarily beautiful love, courtship, and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. After fifteen 154 years of rich marriage, Mrs. Browning died in Italy in 1861, and sometime thereafter Browning wrote "Prospice," expressing his confidence that their love is eternal. (For fuller comments on this beautiful love and marriage, see page 460 of the text.) Although it is too long to be printed in this Magazine, "Rabbi Ben Ezra" might well serve as the center of discussion for this month's lesson because it is both artistically and _ philosophically the richest of the six poems covered. The robust vigor of its tone begins with its very first stanza: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in His hand Who saith, ""A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" Following this assertion that God formed man's life as a united whole, youth and age each being integral halves, Browning then moves, starting with stanza 3, to a rejoicing that man is not a mere animal living in the selfish needs of the flesh. Instead, we are allied to God, who provides the example of unselfishness for us. "A spark disturbs our clod" —the spark of the divine spirit that inhabits the mortal body and separates man from the animals. Therefore, because of our immortal spirits that need to grow through the challenges of earthly experience, we should "welcome each rebuff" and "sting" and "pain" that are steps along the road of endless progression. We should accept life's challenge to "strive," "learn," "dare." Man is a mere brute unless the spirit 'within his body aspires to subdue and live above the desires of the animal flesh. But man does aspire. This is why he is man, and all according to the '"'whole design" of the Creator. "Perfect I call the plan,"' says Browning in stanza 10. And even as youth and age are two halves of mortal life, so body and spirit are two halves of man's total essence, each necessary to the other. (Stanzas 11 and 12.) Stanza 13 is a key passage in the poem, for here Browning states that, matured by life's experiences, man is "a god, though in the germ'—one of the most explicit statements in all literature harmonizing with the Latter-day Saint doctrine that men and women have the potential to become gods and goddesses. Note also Browning's rejection of the "scientific" theory of evolution that man is merely a "developed brute." Man has a divine spirit, says Browning, setting him forever apart from all other forms of life on earth. Beginning in stanza 14, Browning makes another analogy: Even as youth and age are halves of the whole of mortal life, and body and spirit are halves of the whole of man's essence, so mortal life and life after death are related parts of continuous existence— and Browning says he is ready to start on his "adventure brave and new' of life beyond death. The past and the present are both preparations for the future, and all are united in a perfect plan. Therefore, do not be afraid to face death, he says in stanza 19; for even as seeking should characterize youth, so knowledge should characterize age. And this can be "knowledge absolute" he Says in stanza 20, reaffirming his LESSON DEPARTMENT position in stanza 21 when he adds, "Let age speak the truth and give us peace at last." I realize, Browning says in stanza 22, that for every man who believes as I do about life and death and immortality, there may be ten who believe otherwise. The way of the world is to be weak in faith and to argue (see stanza 26) that since life is fleeting and the future uncertain, we should seize the pleasures of today. In answer to this point of view, Browning makes one of his strongest statements in the poem: Fool! All that is, at all, Lasts ever, past recall; Earth changes, but thy soul and God stand sure. What entered into thee, That was, is, and shall be. (from Stanza 27) Man's mortal existence, Browning repeats in stanza 28, is simply part of God's perfect and immortal plan, a school wherein man's soul can be given direction and growth. Look up, therefore, not down (stanza 30), and trust in God's divine wisdom, following his plan that will shape men to perfection for the eternal life ahead. Surely this is one of the great short religious poems of the world, and especially so to Latter-day Saint readers because its views are so beautifully harmonious with truth. The poem can be read in full on pages 461-466 of Out of the Best Books and is also easily available in almost any other book containing some of Browning's poems. In it Browning does not give Latter-day Saint readers theological knowledge beyond that we already have. The gospel gives us the 155 FEBRUARY 1966 fulness of religious truth. Even so, it is reassuring to discover that one of the great poets of the world, in one of his major poems, expresses thoughts harmonizing with the truths of the scriptures. "We Are Seven'' The final poem in this month's lesson is ""We Are Seven" by William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Like the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, "We Are Seven" has an especial appeal to Latter-day Saint readers, because, although among all people there is a hopeful yearning that the family unit may endure beyond the grave, the: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is apparently the only Christian church which officially teaches that the family unit may so endure. On this — theme, and on the scriptural idea that we can sometimes be led by children and learn wisdom out of their spontaneous, intuitive feelings, "We Are Seven" is written (Text, page 471). Although this poem is fairly short, there is not space to print either the poem or a full discussion of it here. Literature leaders desiring to use it—and we assume many will, because the poem is very simple and lovely—will need to turn to pages 469-472 of Out of the Best Books. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. In line 11 of his sonnet Shakespeare counsels us to "buy terms divine." In the light of the sonnet as a whole, what does this phrase mean? 2. The climax of Donne's sonnet is the statement, "Death thou shalt die!" Explain the meaning of this. 3. Explain as fully as possible in Dylan Thomas' poem the meaning of the refrain "Death shall have no dominion." 4. As evidenced by '"Prospice" and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," point out specific places in which Browning shows insight into religious truth regarding death and life after death. 5. Is the little girl in "We Are Seven" intuitively wise or merely impulsive and stybborn? Explain. TO AN ELEVEN-YEAR-OLD Christie Lund Coles You yearn to go beyond this willowed time, Of lupin skies and twilights, dreaming-long; You yearn to hear the brightly clarion chime Of distant bells that peal, enticing, strong. You look into the future and you see A vision of the promise that your hope Shapes of the years ahead, unbounded, free, Quite unencumbered in their width and scope. Oh, do you not know, child, that herein lies The magic that we covet all our days? The cargo that no riches ever buys The memory of enchantment's golden ways? All of the wonder of these things are yours. Embrace this moment that both sings and soars. 156 Follow the Official Pro gram — Avoid Confusion! Complete with the basic sheets and forms — all printed on rag bond paper — for your permanent Book of Remembrance records. Kit includes: Index Guides Personal History forms for Male and Female Parents Ancestors Pedigree Chart Portrait Pedigree Chart Family Group Records (The official Church forms) Ruled sheets, plain sheets; heavy mounting sheets And more Plus attractive cover! Beautifully printed... Ideal for gifts! OVER 50 SHEETS (100 pages)!! °; j Ai plus 10% All this for only $250 Lost This is the easy-to-use research method which uses the official Church Family Group Record form and follows the official genealogical program of the Church. Research Work Book IN ONE HANDY WORK BOOK. New Family Group Record form now used by the Genealogical Society (we You have easy-to-follow directions to use it by permission). Help you easily and happily GET GOING—in searching for your kindred dead, plus a supply of practical and proven forms to help save you time, effort, conThousands of people are saying, "This is the finest research help I've ever seen!" fusion. This is no complicated system, beSo easy for young people to use, too! Cause the LDS AIDS Work Book goes And <M handy to take along on the way the Church goes. It is completely Veeqaien) trips! In accord with the standards and regulaonly $700 plus 10% tions of the Church, even to using the __ Postage _ 'Teaching Kit To help teachers in the Work Shop classes and in the homes, more effectively emphasize the simple steps of the Work Book method of geneaapie logical research. Pe 'i Includes a flip-chart with large enough.. > " printing for even the larger classes, —_"" plus twenty-five copies of the "Learnp ing Reminder," the printed notes and TE senme. Comments on the points printed in the P P flip-chart. _=4 we qty plus 10% _- irate | only $300 postage for Home Teaching and small groups—only $1.50 plus 10% postage. LD Mailing Address: P. O. Box One, Smithfield, Utah S A S Plant Location: Richmond, Utah—on Highway 91 157 FEBRUARY 1966 Need Help With Your Four Generation Program? FOURTH GENERATION THIRD SECOND FIRST Extensive Experience in American and Canadian Research — Former Member of the Research Staff of the L. D. S. Genealogical Society. Associated Researcher of the L. D. S. Genealogical Society — B. S. Degree in American History — Former B. Y. U. Education Week Instructor. ACCREDITED RESEARCH SERVICES CONWAY B. THREET 841 West 3600 South Bountiful, Utah 84010 Phone 295-6898 MEXICO January 21, 1966 26 days SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April HAWAII February 18, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways —<—_ ALASKA PAGEANT TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DARK GLEN Shirley M. Howard The leaves are thick The branches low In this dark glen Where | must go. The path, if one Can call it so, Refuses grass Yet nettles grow. A foot can trip, A body fall To disappear In weeds grown tall. Some say In venturing a call The words will make No sound at all. At most they rise Where branch has thinned And blend as Whispers in the wind. Rather, in this World of dark, | think there waits A gleam, a spark, A thread of sun, A single ray Of gold to hold The light and say, "Here is the way, Here is my way." New Friend Ethel Jacobson There is something more aware In the air. The cedars wear a sheen Of deeper green, And lark song strikes the ear More blithe and clear. Horizons circle wide, With love inside, And life has a rich bouquet, For today Brought me this dividend: A new friend. THIS DAY WILL BRING SOME LOVELY THING Stella Hatch Life closes in and we take for granted the wonderful blessings that are ours. So try each morning when you awaken, to say, "This day will bring some lovely thing." Just as surely as you do, life will bring it! You will see it and 'recognize its beauty. As you go on day after day, you'll find that you will be looking carefully for these bits of joy. For instance, as I came out of the chapel on Sunday, a tiny child grasped my knees. It was my grandson. I felt a thrill go through me because I love him so and he is so sweet. I gave a dear sister a ride. She had on a print dress that looked refreshing, and her conversation was about her gratefulness to the Lord that she was eighty-four years old, and in good health. It made me want to live long. I saw a baby begin to walk; grandpa giving candy to eager, little boys; saw cherries hanging in clusters and felt the warm sun on my face as I picked them. Most important, you must look in places where loveliness has a struggle to be: such as a home where disorder and quarreling abide. Where you go in to help and feel a calm peace invade the room and a friend inspired to do better. You help a young mother who can't get out often by tending her children, doing up the dishes and, perhaps, making a cake. This brings a warmth around the heart. Really, it isn't anything except giving of oneself, and this is always a lovely thing. BEAUTIFUL Oakland and Los Angeles HANDY March 3, 1966 DURABLE Time for those who wish to go to temples A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inStruction of each month's Relief Society MagaCardston and Idaho Falls zine is in a handsomely bound cover. The June 17, 1966 Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. * a Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Hawaiian Lei Day Tour 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 i 7 Phone 486-1892 Spans Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Northwest Tour Yearly Index included June 25 - July 2 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed Hill Cumorah Tours below if bound volumes are to be mailed. July 1966 Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah; — } and 2 55 Zone6 90 J hi | I pesone 3 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zoree 4.65 Zone 8 1.20 ames rave ours Zone 5 0 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 PESERET FPEws PRESS Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 159 OG rrcuste Mrs. ~ ae E. Walker Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Mirinda Snow Frandsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen Terou Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Amanda Hendricks Price Gridley, California Mrs. Mary Smith Fillmore, Utah Mrs. Carrie M. Freeman Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. Caroline Ringle Steed Washington Terrace, Utah Mrs. Ammar Elizabeth Pickett Bott Burley, Idaho IDLENESS In beautiful White Pass in Mount Rainier National Park, we passed Kautz Flood area where, in a huge valley, the trees have all died because the roots were smothered and could not get air. With all the necessary water and plant food, they died even as gardens sometimes do, too. The flood-packed debris around them suffocated them. There was no one to work the soil. They stand as mute evidence of an important law of life: without the work of cultivation for plants, trees, and man, the rot of idleness sets in to destroy. Caroline Eyring Miner 160 Two New and Inspiring Books THE PARABLES OF THE KINGDOM by Melvin R. Brooks Those "stories with meaning" were never so beautifully explained or outlined as they are in this inspiring book. Each parable is taken and analyzed in depth by an author who is a recognized authority. $2.50. Ee CURTAIN TIME USA Ambassadors of Inspiration Niveuans by Jay M. Todd Twenty-five young Brigham Young University i: students assigned by the State Department to ' tour Southeast Asia and the Middle East proved to be among America's finest ambassadors of good will. This is their story. Warm, intimate, pI tele em NARI IMt ad a and exciting. $3.95 = SSS Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA e Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check;; money order, | have an account, please = charge Amount § @ ¢ Name 00.0 ccc cee ee cece cee eee e > Address 022.2. Eee e 4 aState Zip e Residents of Utah, please add 3'2% sales tax. Z Residents of California, when ordering through e California store, please add 4% sales tax. " RS. Feb. 66 e@ @ Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 'Catch me, Daddy '' These familiar words express the trust of a child in his father. He jumps with the full confidence that you will be there to catch and care for him. This trust extends to his faith in your provision ana BENEFICIAL LIFE for his future, too. You can best assure it with a Srasas —. — Ts Beneficial Life plan to suit your needs and income. Se el z iy om. Oe mp PT ae ook OF oO oe merase = oe —~ C FRE BTS 