
Ast the Well Alice Morrey Bailey | had come as she, the woman at the well, Seeking only slake for the day's need, Thirst on my tongue, my blood confused as hers Where Israel fought Assyria in her veins, But here | found, as she, the living fountain, Balm for my wounds, quench for my burnings, And my dark mirror in its quiet pool. And here, beside this river of compassion Have | poured out my woes and emptied grief And let my guilt uncoil and spread my greed Upon the sand for scrutiny, here spilled my yearnings, Let old fears dilute, confirmed belief. Now | am laved and full of joy and cool As a new spring bursting from the mountain. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: C Illustrations: — View From Salem, Utah, Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press "Christ and the Samaritan Woman," from a painting by Carl Bloch Print by Camera Clix Dick Scopes Mary Scopes it has been a very wonderful time reading our fine Magazine. Each time it comes, | just sit, and with joy in my heart, | read the inspired pages that. Bring knowledge, wisdom, and faith. It is like an open door to heaven, and a hope that peace will stay with me in my home. Clemencia P. Golithon Redondo Beach, California | am a Lutheran by faith, but during my short stay in Utah became very fond of Relief Society and enjoyed every minute of it—such wonderful women and with such a good outlook on life. | find The Relief Society Magazine brings me the same enjoyment and inspiring messages and | can't wait for the next issue. Mrs. Thelma M. Adams Fort, Walton Beach, Florida All of my indifference towards poetry has changed the last two years since | have been studying the literature lessons in The Relief Society Magazine. We as Relief Society women are blessed with many advantages to enrich our lives. | love all the poems published in the Magazine, and especially the prizewinning poems in the January issue. "Letter to Viet Nam' (by Eva Willes Wangsgaard) really touched my heart. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas In the past three years, starting from Scotland, | have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. | hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California 242 | am nineteen years of age, single, have been subscribing to the M for nearly a year. From the fi stories to the deepest doctrinal sages, pours: priceless and upli and benefiting information. Young, | am especially interested the romantic side of life. The "For Barbara, With Love'' (First Story, January 1966) deeply tou me, bringing tears to my eyes as | it. Thank you, Sister Vesterfelt, writing such a heartfelt message. Some years ago,. Was the serial * beth's Children' (by Olive W. 1958), which was also touching. | very thankful that | have the p of receiving the Magazine. Jeanette Leavitt, Alberta, Ca | enjoy the Magazine very mu cause it is so outstanding. | sur. Enjoy the story ''A Swedish Conve (by Melva Taylor Gleave, in the 1965 issue of the Magazine). Fredrika Bell Gardens, Cali The stories and lessons in the zine have proved to be most helpful me, and are indeed inspirational. Recipes have been enjoyed by f and friends. The lessons have hel in guiding and directing my life. T lessons coincide beautifully with t Home Evening program. Relief Soci has come to mean something speci for me. My _ testimony has been strengthened since | have had the opportunity to join Relief Society a to work in it. | was the only mem of my family in the Church in the west and the Magazine was a guide a help in explaining the gospel. Miss Ada Ruth Fremont, Cali The Relief Society Veagazine Ee EEE

 Volume 53 April 1966 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 244 The Need for and the Value of a Testimony Roy W. Doxey 256 The Technique and Art of the Pianist As Accompanist and Soloist Ellen N. Barnes 271 Look to the Future—Fight Cancer Gregory Peck Fiction 250 Thomena's Break Through Dorothy Clapp Robinson 262 That Certain Sparkle Frances Carter Yost 272 Birthday Present for Amy Mary Ek Knowles 279 "Look Mom: One Hundred Dollars" Helen H. Trutton 301 Wheat for the Wise Chapter 4 Margery S. Stewart General Features 242 From Near and Far 267 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 268 Editorial: "The Flowers Appear on the Earth" Vesta P. Crawford 270 Notes to the Field: Do You Contemplate a Change of Address? 308 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 286 Recipes For a Luncheon Harriet B. Thorne 287 How to Sew Nylon Tricot Ethel Maturale 288 Second Hope Chest Elizabeth Cottam Walker 291 I Love April Genevieve Van Wagenen 292 Make a Dicky Wilma B. Lichfield 293 I Love Patches Joan N. Ahilman 294 Paintings Make Every Day Beautiful 295 Hill of Daffodils Sylvia Probst Young 296 Inspiration Clara Horne Park 297 Home Academy—What Are You Going to Teach, Mother? Leora Larsen 299 No Violins Lael J. Littke 307 A Proper Perspective Through The Relief Society Magazine Arlene Bascom 307 Full Circle Betty G. Spencer Lesson for June 315 Work Meeting—Wise Buymanship Jenniev J. Poulson Poetry 241 At the Well Alice Morrey Bailey My Butterfly, Vilate R. McAllister, 255; Lifted Hands, Della Adams Leitner, 261; Suddenly It's Spring, Annie Atkin Tanner, 266; "He Giveth His Beloved Sleep," Christie Lund Coles, 270; Bridal Spring, Pearle M. Olsen. 277; No Petal Lost, Blanche Kendall McKey, 278; Anna's Garden, Lucy W. Jones, 285; Prelude to Roses, Kathryn Kay, 290; Morning Glory Morning, Linda J. Houston, 298; Thank You, Visiting Teachers, Carolle Denton, 300; Alpine Lilies, Dorothy J. Roberts, 217; My Yellow Bird, Alda L. Brown, 318. 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. @ 

I know that no person can come to this position and be successful without the preparation of prayer and a sincere desire to perform this assignment in keeping with the high standards of the Relief Society. With your faith and prayers my _inadequacies will be less noticeable. One time a student asked me if I could prove to him that there is a God. My answer was simple and straightforward. I _ said, "No." He then said, "Oh, then what you teach about the gospel is not true, because you can't prove there is a God." It is true, no man can prove the existence of God. What we do is to cite various evidences in nature, the orderliness of the universe, the balance in nature, the resourcefulness of animal life, and man himself as a complex organ- 244 Roy W. Doxey Professor of Scriptures [Address Delivered at the Of Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] ism. But these things, important as they are to those who are trying to know about a power greater than themselves, really do not prove the existence of God and, certainly, do not reveal the personality and attributes of God. What, then, was my answer to the doubting student? "Although I cannot prove God's existence to you, nor do I believe that any man can do so, the Lord nonetheless has given us assurance that we can know that he lives. This knowledge comes to the individual and not to the multitude. Yes, we can know that God the Father lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son. This knowledge can come to every individual that lives, provided he will accept the conditions upon which that knowledge is gained." God has not left his children without his fundamental knowledge which Jesus said was necessary in order to receive eternal life. (John 17:3.) We in the Church have come to know that revelation may be received by every person who is prepared for it. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: ""No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 328). The apostle Paul said that "no man can say [or know] that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost" (I Cor. 12:3). So evident was this fact made known | to Peter, when he said to Christ "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God," that Jesus said to him: "... Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). What preparation is necessary to receive revelation that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? I believe that Latter-day Saints have come to understand the basic elements which make it possible for one— young or old—to receive this knowledge. Briefly stated, they are: (1) a sincere desire to know; (2) belief or faith in Jesus Christ that he will answer prayer; (3) prayer itself; (4) diligent study to learn God's will; and (5) to live according to the principles of the gospel. It seems to me that the kind of faith that will bring results was mentioned by President Heber J. Grant about an experience in his early youth. I have often said and desire to repeat here that when I was a young THE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY unmarried man, another young man, who had received a doctor's degree ridiculed me for believing in the Book of Mormon. He said he could point out two lies in that book. One was that the people had built their homes out of cement and they were very skillful in the use of cement. He said there had never been found and _ never would be found a house built of cement by the ancient inhabitants of this country, because the people of that early age knew nothing about cement. He said that should be enough to make one disbelieve the book. I said: "That does not affect my faith one particle. I read the Book of Mormon prayerfully and supplicated God for a testimony in my heart and soul to the divinity of it, and I have accepted it and believe it with all my heart." I also said to him, "If my children do not find cement houses, I expect that my grandchildren will." Now, since that time, houses made of cement and massive structures of the same material have been uncovered (Gospel Standards, Second Edition, page 28). What is a testimony? In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn: A testimony of the truth is more than a mere assent of the mind, it is a conviction of the heart, a knowledge that fills the whole soul of its recipient (Roy W. Doxey, Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants II: 310). There are several elements about a testimony which, it seems to me, should be known. The testimony is received by the Holy Ghost speaking to one's spirit. When the Spirit speaks to one's soul as a still small voice or by impressions to the mind, the power of that experience is such that it can be greater than if one had contact with heavenly messengers. One truth associated with this fact is that when the Holy Ghost has spoken to a 245 APRIL 1966 man's soul, it is possible, if that man turns away from that testimony, he may not receive forgiveness in the world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:31-35; Heb. 6:4-6.) Another fact we should know is that the testimony may come gradually, over a long period of time. President Joseph F. Smith said that as a boy he asked the Lord to show him some marvelous manifestation that he might have a testimony. But the Lord withheld these things from him and showed him line upon line, here a little and there a little, until he knew the truth from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. By the whisperings of the still small voice of the Spirit he received a testimony. (Latterday Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants Il:316.) I believe we should remember that study of the books of scripture will greatly aid us in not only obtaining a living witness of the truth, but also to retain one. I believe that it is necessary for a Latter-day Saint to study the standard works of the Church in order for him to have a living, vibrant, testimony. An example of what I mean is this account concerning the power of The Book of Mormon to impart a testimony given by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, in a General Conference sermon: I remember reading it [the Book of Mormon] with one of my lads when he was very young. On one occasion I lay in the lower bunk and he in the upper bunk. We were each reading aloud alternate paragraphs of those last three marvelous chapters of Second Nephi. I heard his voice breaking and thought he had a cold, but we 246 went on to the end of the three chapters. As we finished he said to me, "Daddy, do you ever cry when you read the Book of Mormon?" "Yes, Son," I answered. "Sometimes the Spirit of the Lord so witnesses to my soul that the Book of Mormon is true that I do cry." "Well," he said, "that is what happened to me tonight." I know not all of them will respond like that, but I know that some of them will, and I tell you this book was given to us of God to read and to live by, and it will hold us as close to the Spirit of the Lord as anything I know (Conference Reports, April 1949, page 41). I believe that what Brother Romney said about The Book of Mormon is equally true of the other books of scripture. It is also true that a fullfledged testimony, if I may use that expression, must be about all of the gospel and not only a part. One may, however, receive a testimony about one or several principles, such as that the law of tithing is true, that a virtuous life is exalting, that it is necessary to be honest and truthful. Testimony of a certain principle of the gospel comes because we live that principle. We do not have a testimony of the Word of Wisdom, or another principle of the gospel, unless we live that principle. When I live all of the principles of the gospel, then I have a testimony of all of them. In the meantime, that is, as I come to know the validity of many principles of the gospel, my understanding of other principles is enlarged, and my faith to accept all of the principles of the gospel is also increased. These ideas, though probably only partially stated here, bring us to a consideration of another important facet of our discussion. As one receives a testimony, SO also one may lose it. Negligence in observing sincere prayer, a lack of study of gospel principles; a lack of participation in Church activities; stepping aside from living some of the principles of morality; perhaps, finding fault with one's fellow Church members and with the leadership of the Church, all result in weakened faith and a withdrawal of the Spirit of the Lord from our lives. What is the result? Discontentment, unhappiness of heart, and a loss of peace and serenity of mind. But these adverse feelings come in this life. Greater still, is the loss of the great blessings of eternal life in the eternities to come. Let us consider in the remaining time, the reasons why each one of us should have a divine witness that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's Church and that our exaltation will be earned only by our having a witness for ourselves. First, the person who has a living testimony of the truth is a person of conviction. Converted herself, she is a converter of others. The power of testimony is well known in this Church. By the sincere testimony, the lives of tens of thousands of converts to this Church are changed to a meaningful and happier life. The teacher in the classroom or the executive in the Relief Society, the board member who has a testimony, exude faith, helpfuiness, and strength of purpose. Second, those who continue to learn and to practice that knowledge are not deceived by every wind of doctrine or teaching that is not in agreement with the prinTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ciples of the gospel. President Joseph F. Smith said: Where would you have people go who are unsettled in the truth? The answer is plain. They will not find/ satisfaction in the doctrines of men. Let them seek for it in the written word of God; let them pray to him in their secret chambers... And in their closets petition for light; let them obey the doctrines of Jesus, and they will immediately begin to grow in the knowledge of the truth. This course will bring peace to their souls, joy to their hearts, and a settled conviction which no change can disturb. They may be well assured that "he that heareth in secret will reward them openly." Let them seek for strength from the Source of all strength, and he will provide spiritual contentment, a rest which is incomparable with the physical rest that cometh after toil. All who seek have a right to, and may enter into, the rest of God, here upon the earth, from this time forth, now, today; and when earth-life is finished, they shall also enjoy his rest in heaven (JOSEPH F. SMITH, Gospel Doctrine. Ninth Edition, pp. 126-127). Third, the testimony is a shield against sin. When temptations come, temptations' enticings are easily rejected. The person who knows that there is a conscious existence after death and that all people will come to judgment, is the wise person, for he will act upon that knowledge and forsake the appearance of evil. Fourth, to the Latter-day Saint with a testimony, there comes the blessing of comfort and strength in times of difficulty. No one of us has a guarantee against adversity. All of us, however, have a guarantee, if we live for it, to receive the comforting peace that comes by the Spirit. Fifth, as a member of the Church increases in testimony 247 APRIL 1966 and he receives positive knowledge of the truth, his ability to live the principles of the gospel increases. Sixth, this person will find greater enthusiasm for the work of the Lord. Problems of administration, of teaching, of leadership, which to the nonconverted would be impossible of solution, or who would lack the drive to achieve, find solution because the one with a testimony knows that God will help and assist those who faithfully serve him. Seventh, the testimony is a bulwark of strength against the troublous times predicted for the last days. Wars, rumors of wars, civil strife that endangers lives and property, the love of man for fellow man growing cold, the ravages of the natural calamities, and the extreme wickedness with which we are bombarded, all of these are a part of our times, and they test the moral fibre of all people. President Heber C. Kimball said prophetically: Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and his work. This Church has before it many close _ places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming, it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of this work for yourselves. The difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who does not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right and call upon the Lord and cease not till you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on 248 borrowed light. Each will have to guided by the light within himself. You do not have it, how can stand? Do you believe it? (Life Heber C. Kimball, pp. 449-450). In addition to these s blessings accruing to the Lat day Saint with a testimony, seems to me that all members the Relief Society would do t following things if they had testimony: First, they would follow th counsel of the Lord given in 18 to a member of the Church 1 a leadership position: ". Strengthen your brethren in your conversation, in all yo prayers, in all your exhortatio and in all your doings" (D 108:7). In other words, ev member of the Church would s tain unreservedly those who p side over him whether they General Authorities, stake a mission authorities, or ward a branch officers. They would everything in their power strengthen those who were se ing them by their prayers, in their conversations, in th teaching and preaching, in fac in every way. Second, the person with a timony will seek to build Zion the earth. Early in the dispen tion, the Lord told his people t this was the most import thing for them to do. To buil Zion means to be so dedicated the truth that one's actions, ef forts, means, and abilities a placed upon the altar for ou Savior in building his kingdo upon the earth. It means, as the Relief Society or any of t. Organizations of the Church, 1 cluding the Priesthood, that all become as the ancient Zion i Enoch's day, "of one heart and one mind" (Moses 7:18). The ideal Zion-condition in the lives of each individual was expressed by President Brigham Young in these words: "I live and walk in Zion every day " (Journal of Discourses 1:4). Translating this concept into what is expected of every Latterday Saint, it seems to me that he or she who has a testimony of real substance, that person will pay his full tithing, observe the Word of Wisdom, be honest and truthful, virtuous in his life, seek the advancement of his fellow man, and will accept all of these principles and also _responsibilities in the Church, whether considered small or large, for all advance the cause of Zion. The First Presidency composed of President Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Jedediah M. Grant, has given us an insight into the blessings received by those who have a testimony of the truth: Incomparable delight and happiness fill the soul of the faithful Saint, who has the testimony of Jesus and the Spirit of the living God to enlighten his understanding. Happiness supreme and love divine fill his bosom, as he seeks to impart the gladsome intelligence to his fellow species, that they may also be partakers with him in the glorious cause, and share in its blessings. Thus our holy religion absorbs every feeling, desire, ambition, motive, and action of our natures, and renders every association in life tributary thereto; it forms the vitality of our very existence; it enters not only into our spiritual but also into our temporal organization, and controls us in all our affairs. This is true of every person who has tasted the good work of life, has received the Holy Ghost, and continues to walk in the light, and be led by its gentle influTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ence. This is salvation in the kingdom of God, it is glory celestial, and exaltation. This is the work that makes angry the adversary, who fears the overthrow of his kingdom and power upon the earth, that causes Satan to rage and seek to destroy the Saints of the Most High, as he did in the days of Jesus and of his Apostles and followers (Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants 1:434). As I close these remarks, I want to express my deep appreciation for the opportunity I have had and that I am still enjoying in writing the theology lessons for the Relief Society. I have learned that the sisters of the Relief Society are dedicated to the building of Zion upon the earth. Let us return to the doubting student mentioned in the beginning of these remarks. To him and to all people, I can say that if a person seeks with all his heart to know of God's existence, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of men, and to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, these truths will be made known to him by the power of the Holy Ghost. I want also to express this fact. Regardless of ideas and thoughts to the contrary, ultimately, in each person's life there must come the conviction of the Holy Ghost. I know that revelation is in this Church, that the Lord's promise, as follows, is true: If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things—that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal (D&C 42:61). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 249 reasons. You are adorable, you are beautiful, you are cuddly." "Derek." "You did not let me finish. You are intelligent, and you are in every detail the girl I wanted for my wife." "Oh, you. I have no strength of character; no power to make decisions. I don't know how to treat your mother." Derek choked on the milk he was drinking. After a show of coughing, he said, "'Now she tells me, after making me wait for two years before she would give me the glad word. That was because she could not make up her mind!" "No. I knew I was going to marry you long before you asked me." "Ts that right?" "T mean—well, your mother doesn't approve of me." 'What has that to do with your power to make decisions?" "She disapproves of me. She disapproves of my—our religion. She doesn't answer my letters; when she does write, her letters are addressed to you. I can't make up my mind what to do." "The trouble with my mother is, She makes too many decisions for other people; and I insist on making my own. Perhaps you have noticed. Our children will be so decisive they will make up your mind for you—whether or no." He rose from the table, then stooped to kiss her. "Don't you worry, Tom-Baby. When you are in doubt always follow your heart." They had been almost deliriously happy that first year. Mrs. Laudwehr had refused to give Derek support unless he would come to his senses and enter the THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH University where he belonged. He must follow the traditional family pattern. Luckily, he had had a small income from an uncle's estate. He did tutoring, and Thomena worked part time so they had managed without debt. But now there was a baby coming, and the unpleasant facts Thomena had forced to the back of her mind appeared and demanded to be recognized. No home could be complete without a parent or a grandparent. Thomena had adored the grandmother who had reared her; and the aunts and uncles and cousins—why, life would be unbearable' without them. Derek found in Uncle Jim the father he had never known, and Thomena must find in Mrs. Laudwehr the mother she had never known. So, clearly, it was up to her to find some way to resolve the situation. And she could not even decide on a birthday present. Last fall Mrs. Laudwehr had appeared on the faculty of their university as an exchange professor. She rented an _ expensive apartment. It should have been a time of rejoicing, but it was not. Thomena's disk of happiness would not play on her emotional machine. No friendship developed, and without friendship how could anyone find love? Thomena turned from the mirror. Taking her sweater and purse, she went into the living room just as Derek and _ his friend, Phil Harris, came bounding up the stairs. "Hi, Tom-Baby. I was afraid you might be gone. Come in, Phil, arid don't mind my hugging my adorable wife. Isn't she beautiful?" Thomena's face colored with 251 APRIL 1966 embarrassment. "But, why are you home this time of the day?" she asked when she could. "Phil and I have to go to Lowell Peak dam to watch the installation of some electronic machinery. We must write papers on it. We may be gone a week, and I do not want to leave you that long without the car. Will you drive us up?" "Surely, I would love to." But after they were away from town and speeding toward the high hills, she thought of Mrs. Laudwehr's birthday. "Today is your mother's birthday,' she told Derek, 'and I should get back before the stores close." "I'm sorry, but it is too late now for me to see her. She will not mind. She quit having birthdays before I was old enough to buy her a present. Give her a kiss for me, but do not mention her birthday. She will not like it." "The stores are open until eight tonight," Phil said, 'and it won't take longer than half an hour to buy a present, so you should be able to make it." The three were sitting in the front seat, Derek driving effortlessly as he did most things. At Phil's suggestion, Thomena turned her head to hide a smile. How little he knew about buying a present, and she had been looking for the past month. The drive could have been so wonderful if Thomena had not been so conscious of time. Over and over, she listed in her mind possible purchases that would be suitable and acceptable—but she would never get back in time to shop. Occasionally, a small town would offer something more valuable than could be found in the city. She remembered once in a 252 small-town bookstore she had found a first edition of Huckleberry Finn. On the flyleaf it said, "Christmas, 1894. To my beloved nephew." She had paid ten cents for the book. Perhaps she could give that to Mrs. Laudwehr— but, no, her mother-in-law undoubtedly appreciated first editions, but not of a juvenile book. "This is the sixteenth time you have looked at your watch in the last fifteen minutes," Derek broke her reverie. "'Are you that anxious to say goodbye?" Thomena_ smiled. "Frankly, yes. I want to get into a store." "Bake her a cake." "You know she doesn't eat pastries. Too fattening." "Well, I like cake. Suppose you have one baked for me when I get back, and forget a present." Derek was always positive when speaking of his mother. "She doesn't like to be reminded of her age." THOMENA'S hopes sank. Perhaps Mrs. Laudwehr would resent being a grandmother. I can't buy her love with a _ present, she told herself, but the ice must be broken someway and it would be terrible not to be remembered on one's birthday. Christmas is for everybody, but a birthday is one's very own. "Well, here we are." Derek had driven across the causeway and stopped before an office building. He reached for his typewriter and briefcase. "You get with the baggage, Phil. I am driving back to where the steep climb begins. Can't trust Tom-Baby to drive that alone. I will walk back." "But that is too far," Thomena protested. "Not nearly as far as from there to the bottom of the canyon." "T just remembered," Phil told Thomena,. "after you leave this first canyon there is a turn to the right. It will take you through a small resort. You might find something there."' "Thank you, Phil. I will take the turn." Derek maneuvered the car about and again crossed the causeway. Water was almost to the top of the dam. On the lower side there was nothing but a downward plunge with a great roaring spray issuing from three outlets. At the point in the road where the angle of descent leveled, Derek set the brakes. He got out and Thomena slipped behind the wheel. "You will be careful, won't you, darling? I never knew there could be anyone as precious as you." She leaned forward to receive his parting kiss. "You forget I have driven over mountain roads since I was old enough to have a license." "That is the only reason I am trusting you to make it back. Please, be careful." "T can't go without the keys." Derek's face went blank, then he laughed. "I was not conscious of having put them in my pocket. Here you are."" He stopped again and felt in all his pockets. "Thomena, I have come away without my wallet. Must have left it in the slacks. What shall I do?" "Shall I bring it up to you?" "No. I don't need anything but a little cash—have to pay for my board. Phil might have enough to lend me some, but I - know THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH doubt it. He gets by on so little."' Without hesitation, Thomena handed him her purse. He took the money from it and handed it back. "I dislike doing this. I you were on your way downtown when we picked you 99 up. THERE was another leavetaking, then Thomena realized she was going down the mountain at a fast pace. She felt a little lightheaded. The decision had been taken from her; it was no longer her responsibility to buy a birthday present; but she had done her best. She took the road Phil had suggested, but as she had no money she drove through the resort without stopping. But her mother-in-law's birthday still kept intruding on her thoughts. Derek had been offered a teaching fellowship, so they were sure to be here two more years. Would Ursula Laudwehr move when they did? What difference would it make? The next two years, she reasoned, would be as important as any two years of their lives; perhaps more so, for the wider the gap the harder it would be to bridge. The day would not be over until twelve o'clock and—here I go again, she thought. Why can't I just forget? The decision was taken out of my hands. In the canyon, dusk was settling heavily over trees and road. She made a turn that brought her to an opening between the hills. Here the sun was still shining. For a moment it almost blinded her. She drew to the side of the road and stopped the car. Sunshine lay like a dappled but physical blanket over a small clearing. "A crowd, a host of gold- 253 APRIL 1966 en daffodils,' she quoted, only the flowers were not daffodils, but common everyday buttercups, the kind she had picked as a child. Suddenly Thomena's hopes flared—it might be possible yet. She was out of the car and picking buttercups before her thoughts had quite jelled. She began picking, choosing only the largest long-stemmed ones. When she had all she could hold in her two hands, she returned to the car and laid them on the back seat. Now—if she hurried she could arrange the blossoms in a vase; at least, it would be a birthday remembrance, if not a present. When nearly to the county road, she stopped the car so suddenly she was thrown against the steering wheel. Before her was another expanse of flowers, sego lilies, this time. Buttercups did not mean anything in particular; sego lilies did. They were sort of a symbol. She started picking. The plants were not thickly grouped as were the buttercups, but they were larger and more colorful than any she had ever seen. The lilac and gold in the centers were more vivid and the petals creamier than usual. She moved about choosing, discarding. She laid the lilies be- 254 side the buttercups, then hurried to get home before they wilted. Thomena put both bouquets on the kitchen table while she hunted for a vase. She found one of olive-green porcelain. It was fashioned with a square foot and a stem that flared into a shallow bowl. Thomena chose her blossoms carefully and arranged them as tastefully as she could. But she could not trust the car seat to hold the vase so the water would not spill, and she could not trust the blossoms out of water for another half hour; besides, she wanted to enter Ursula's presence with the arrangement intact. It would make a better impression. She would have to walk and carry the offering. At the Centralia, where Mrs. Laudwehr lived, Thomena took the elevator to the twelfth floor. She walked carefully down the hall and knocked at number 983. What if Mrs. Laudwehr laughed at her present, or, worse still, pretended to like it? Thomena could. Not help that happening, much as she would regret it; it was her.. Privilege to give and Mrs. Laudwehr's to receive in any manner she saw fit. Ursula Laudwehr opened the - door, and for a moment stood blinking at the tired looking, disheveled girl. "Come in." "Happy. Birthday," Thomena said, and took two steps into the living room. Then she stumbled and water sloshed from the shallow vase onto the rose carpet. She sat down, abruptly, set the vase away from her, and began to cry. She was tired, she was hungry, and she had ruined everything. Ursula frowned. She studied the girl intently, then a faint smile softened her features. She brought a towel and wiped the water from the rug. She took the vase away and returned with the arrangement intact. She placed it on the table before the couch on which she had been sitting. "You have made your point," she said suddenly. "'Come sit by me." The sobs stopped more abruptly than they had begun. After a sniffle or two, Thomena wiped her eyes and her dress. ''What do you mean?" she demanded. "Why did you come here?" "Why to— to—" "Exactly. Incidentally, this is the first birthday present I have been given since I was twelve years old. Thank you. I honor the thought that prompted the giving." "Why—why, Derek told me you didn't like birthday presents." "An unhappy experience at that age soured me, and I retaliated in the only way I knew. When I matured a little, I could not find the softness to say I had changed." A little reluctantly, Thomena THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH sat on the couch; she was not prepared for a quick surrender. She looked at her mother-in-law and saw understanding in her eyes. ""You are a sweetie-pie,"' she cried impulsively. Then her face flushed. "I didn't mean to be flippant. I know you dislike slang. Derek calls me "Tom-Baby,' and I wish he wouldn't. It sounds so —so juvenile and like a cat." Mrs. Laudwehr actually smiled. "Let Derek be juvenile. It is a delayed reaction. He will recover. How would you like Ursula Mowbray DeLilue Laudwehr for a name?" "Horrible." Thomena leaned and kissed the owner of those names. "I know a much prettier one." "Tell me."' "Grandmother." Mrs. Laudwehr's eyes _hardened briefly. She drew a deep breath. "So be it." Then she succumbed. "After all, no matter how much she may resent it every oldish woman needs a grandchild." "Every child needs a grandmother." Thomena kissed her again, then said belatedly, "Happy birthday, Mother."' MY BUTTERFLY Vilate R. McAllister Happiness, flaunting butterfly wings, Fluttered beyond my grasp. In vain | pursued the dancing wraith, Far too elusive to clasp. Discouraged and tired, | stopped to rest, And quietly sat on a boulder. Happiness fluttered near again, And presently lit on my shoulder! 255 The Technique and Art of the As and Ellen N. Barnes Member, General Board of Relief Society (Talk Delivered at the Music Department Meeting of the Relief Society. Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965) PSALM 100 Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations. @ The frequently quoted expression that "'accompanists are born and not made" is one with which I do not agree. Accompanying is an acquired art, and one which any good pianist can master. One can be guided a long way on the road which leads to proficiency. Beyond a certain point, however, the individual must have learned all of the mechanics involved and be able to profit by his own experience. One can learn to play the notes of an accompaniment with skill, but the art of accompanying and ensemble playing will come to him only as a result of his own efforts in study, perseverance, patience, and experience. The playing of accompaniments should not be regarded as a stepping stone to other things, but rather the accompanist's work is sufficiently rewarding in itself. Those who have had the experience of being an accompanist know the delight which this area of music-making can give. The conductor and singers depend upon the accompanist at all times for support and inspiration. Sir Landon Ronald once said: "The world is overstocked with brilliant solo pianists, but there are precious few good accompanists." The great accompanist Gerald Moore stated: The popular conception of an adequate accompanist is of a _ quiet, modest individual, seen but not heard, an affable automation, obediently following the soloist and oozing with sympathy and discretion from every pore only on the rarest occasion should the accompanist be satisfied with providing an unobtrusive murmur in the background. Such an attitude would ruin the works of any great composer. To the singer, a good accompanist means good work, and good work means enjoyable work. A good or competent accompanist does not follow, but anticipates and goes hand in hand with the conductor and singers. Skill in doing this is acquired by proper coordinated attention. The music must be well in hand, including mastery of the singer's part, so that the accompanist can be alert to subtle changes in tempo or dynamics which are not indicated in the score. Being sensitive to the conductor's wishes in observing these nuances, adds greatly to the charm and interest of the music. These subtleties cannot be easily taught, but are developed as the result of study, concentration, and experience. Brother J. Spencer Cornwall states in his book Fundamentals of Conducting, that: A conductor cannot appreciate too highly an efficient accompanist—one who can anticipate his every need— one who will sound the pitch in a rehearsal at every necessary point without being told—one who can right a tempo which has slackened or accelerated—one who can boost the pitch of the singers when it has flatted and one who can follow every movement of the conductor and exemplify it in his playing. THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST When the work of the conductor and accompanist complement each other in all phases of musical performance, the situation is ideal. An accompaniment is not written as an afterthought. It must be the foundation for the entire musical structure of the composition. Any piece of music with a poorly written or poorly played accompaniment is doomed to failure. Accompaniments are not only important because of their technical difficulty, but may, because of their simplicity, give the sensitive pianist much more to think about. Many pianists do not take enough time to work for quality of tone and a variety of shadings in a simple or easily read accompaniment. The singers want something more than the casual playing of mere notes. The simplicity of these accompaniments demands that they be treated reverently. The accompanist must be able to interpret and play the music from a variety of composers, in a variety of styles to suit the composer as well as_ the nature of the composition. Learn to analyze the music and listen critically to your playing of it. In preparation for learning a new song, one should first of all study the words. The accompaniment to every good song paints a picture or creates a mood which is inspired by the words. Therefore, the accompanist and conductor, as well as the singers, must depend upon these words to guide them. What character can an accompanist give to her playing if she is not familiar with the words? How can she possibly feel a unity of expression with the conductor and singers if she does oT APRIL 1966 not know the words, and understand the meaning of them? POSITION AT PIANO— HAND POSITION Now let us consider some of the attributes which are of prime importance in developing the art of piano playing and accompanying. First of all, one must have a good position at the piano. She should be at a comfortable height so that her hands rest easily on the keyboard to be held on a plane nearly level with the forearms. The hands should be cupped, with fingers curved, so that a good singing tone can be produced. The weight of the arm centers in the ball of the fingertip as it comes in contact with the key. The wrist should be relaxed at all times. TONE QUALITY, PHRASING, AND BALANCE OF TONE In developing tone quality, one should learn to listen to oneself. This is of utmost smportance. There should be no harsh sounds, but constant striving to develop a beautiful singing tone. Practice a hymn and try to bring out different melodic lines (soprano, alto, or tenor) in a succession of chords. While the soprano voice in an accompaniment frequently sings out, very often a tone in an inner voice may be of vital importance and must be brought out to indicate a change of key or harmony. One should learn to control the tone so that all tones, except the melodic tone in a chord, are subdued. If one learns to use the fingers with sensitivity, a variety of touch can be developed, and, by experimenting with touch, a variety of tone colors can be produced. 258 PHRASING AND BALANCE OF TONE Observe the phrasing and musical punctuation indicated in the score. Practice to develop the art of beautiful phrasing. Phrases are usually indicated by long curved lines over the notes. The notes within a phrase are usually played legato (smoothly); the end of a phrase is often indicated by a break or slight lift of the wrist. However, there must be no interruption in the rhythm. The accompanist must listen constantly to the balance of tone. She must keep under but give strong support to the singers. LEGATO PLAYING—SCALES Scale practice is the very foundation of piano technique. A scale is a (developing) chain in which all of the notes are played precisely alike and are very even in tone. They must be _ played smoothly and connected as in legato playing. In this, there is no break between tones. One finger comes up as the other goes down. Up motions are the exact reciprocal of down motions; the one must equal and counterbalance the other. This reciprocity is of vital importance. Clearness, fluency, and general control of the fingers depend upon this reciprocal action. In a poorly executed scale it is probable that the up motions are neither as quick as the down motions, nor as accurately timed. In playing a whole note, for example, the finger that has been correctly trained goes down to the key and is lifted with precisely the same speed with which it would play a group of 64th notes. The only difference is the length of time that the finger remains on the key. The reasons for this quick finger action are: (1) good quality of tone is achieved; (2) power is secured; and (3) speed is obtained, and the scale is legato— played smoothly. Learn to play with skill the scales, arpeggios, and chords of all major and minor keys. This will make learning new music much easier. PEDALING Good pedaling is of great importance. Syncopated pedaling is used in most of our hymns. To acquire proficiency in syncopated pedaling, practice a scale putting the sustaining pedal down just after a key is played. The pedal comes up as the next key is struck, and goes down while you are still holding the key. Apply this principle as you practice the hymns and you will find that they will sound much more smoothly. If a tone or bass chord is to be held through the phrase, the pedal must catch the low tone and sustain it. As a rule, the pedal changes with the harmonic change. DYNAMICS Learn the meaning of all the markings on the pages of music in a song. Follow the composer's markings accurately. Get a musical dictionary and use it regularly for reference. (Elson's is a good one.) Study the dynamics (tone volume) and learn to control the amount of tone you use according to the specific directions of the composer. For example, a crescendo must be a gradual increase in tone and a diminuendo a gradual decrease in tone. Learn to observe all markings in every THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST piece of music you play. This will greatly increase the interest of the music both to the performer as well as to the listener. RHYTHM Rhythm in music consists of regular recurring accents. The rhythm must be sure and steady. A metronome is of some help, but learn to rely on yourself. Always count time, but, of course, to yourself. Learn the measure signatures and follow them accurately. It is important that you do not neglect the rests; count them the same as you do the notes. TEMPO Check the metronome markings and be sure the speed of your rhythms is correct. Sister Florence J. Madsen says in her book Music Leadership in Relief Society: ''Make sure that the tempo is comfortable for the singers and enchances the beauty, dignity, and character of the song." A word of caution—many songs may lose the spirit or fail to be enthusiastically received by being taken at too slow or too fast a tempo. A sense of timing is all important. The conductor has to rely on an efficient accompanist who has the musicianship and training, to keep the proper tempo, and give support and inspiration to the conductor and singers. All should work together to achieve a_ successful and beautiful performance. Here, again, one must keep in mind the text and meaning of the words to the song. The feeling must be personal and dynamic, if you are to touch the hearts of the listeners. Both conductor 'and accom- 259 APRIL 1966 panist must radiate enthusiasm and love for both the singers and the music. The accompanist should learn to forget the fingers and keep his eye on the vocal line. Sing the words to yourself and make a mental note of where the singers breathe. SIGHT READING Fifteen minutes a day practice in sight reading can greatly improve one's ability and give confidence in playing and learning new music. Begin with reading simple compositions and, gradually, increase the difficulty of the music as you gain in confidence and proficiency. It would be well to start with the first hymn and go through the entire book. This would give the accompanist a general acquaintance with all of the hymns. As she returns to practice them, she should read the texts and decide which style and mood belong to each song and play them accordingly. As the hymns are played, do make sure that both hands strike the chord in unison or together. Never, never play the left hand before the right hand. In sight reading, it is very important always to maintain an even beat and take it at a slower tempo. If some notes are left out, it will not matter—but do maintain the beat. PRELUDE AND INTERLUDE In playing the prelude or introduction and interlude in a song or hymn, it is very important that these passages be played with authority, employing all the technique of fine piano playing. In both places, the tempo of the song should be maintained. 260 The introduction of a hymn should consist of the beginning four measures or first phrase, and end with the last four measures or last phrase. If the hymn is short, all of it may be played. An interlude, consisting of the last phrase of the hymn, may be played after the second verse. Do not wander away in some improvisation that takes the singers away from the tune they are singing. In a song, these preludes and interludes are solo parts for the piano and must be made interesting and beautiful. These are 'places where the piano can speak and assume the leadership. Sister Madsen says: Prelude music is played for the purpose of generating a spirit of devotion and worship, and not for drowning out conversation and noise. The accompanist therefore should choose music that is of a subdued and quiet nature and not a display of volume, speed, or technique (Ibid, page 34). Again, I want to emphasize to you that you must practice and learn to play the music beautifully. Your goal of inspiring a spirit of devotion and worship cannot be achieved if you play inaccurately, carelessly, or with faulty phrasing or technique. Remember that if you are invited to become the Relief Society stake or ward organist or chorister, it is an opportunity for growth and development. Any mother who is herself growing and learning will - be a far better mother. We all need to feel that we are improving our talents and abilities and this must continue throughout life if we are pursuing our Heavenly Father's plan for us. Make stake leadership music department an inspiration and of real value to ward leaders. The organists should meet separately for a short time and discuss appropriate prelude music. They should play for each other and exchange ideas. They can discuss the fundamentals of musicianship and of interpretation, observing phrasing and dynamics and even technical problems. The chorister and organist should plan together for the leadership meetings throughout the year, using their ingenuity and understanding of the needs in the wards. If the ward leaders feel that they are getting some real help, they will make every effort to attend, and the standard of music in the wards will be raised immeasurably. It will become vitalized and, sisters, we do need to vitalize the music in stakes, wards, and branches. Study continuously, and you and the Church will reap the rewards. In conclusion, I should like to urge all of you to attend as many concerts—especially orchestral— as you can, and constantly listen to good music. Study the tonal THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST and dynamic effects, the melodic line, the harmonic progression, and balance of tone. Listen to the instruments which play the melody or theme and try to follow its development. I can't stress this continuing education too strongly. We should maintain the highest standards in our music, both for services and performances. There must always be growth and development. Excellence is the result of attention to seemingly insignificant details—the shading of the piano, the accent of a word, the changing of the countenance. The key to achieving excellence is to give three times the amount of work and attention to learning the composition that you consider necessary. May our Heavenly Father bless our efforts as we strive to improve our talents and ability to develop the art of accompanying so that we can make worthwhile contributions to the Church and, specifically, to Relief Society. LIFTED HANDS Della Adams Leitner Jesus lifted up his hands A blessing to invoke On his disciples when he left, And as the words he spoke They listened to his final thought That henceforth they should be His messengers of gospel news, Proclaimed from sea to sea. He "lifted up his hands,'' and we, Heirs of his truth, should go With hands that lift to serve in love, The heart's rich overflow; Hands that bring help, supply, and aid, Obeying his commands, Channels for comfort, courage, hope, Our "lifting up'' of hands. 261 @ Fanny Carlsen hummed a medley of favorite tunes as she sewed the buttons on the dress she had just finished making. This was a special dress, for a special occasion. True, the dress, like all of Fanny's clothes, would be worn for years and years. But this dress would be forever remembered and referred to as the dress for the trip in 1966. Fanny and Alex Carlsen enjoyed life. They loved their cozy home surrounded by a well-kept yard, garnished with flowers and vegetables and a few thriving fruit trees. Alex liked his job at the plant, and his boss. They appreciated the people of their neighborhood, both grownups and little folks. They liked their ward family and their stake acquaintances. They had a few really choice friends with whom they visited back and forth. Yes, Fanny thought, she and Alex lived a good, full life, but the 262 That Certain uparkle Frances Carter Yost highlight of it all was always their annual trip. The trip was a twelve-hundredmile journey they took during Alex's two weeks' vacation. The trip was to see their son Tom and his family. Tom was their only child. He was a good son, one of whom to be proud. When the Carlsens had started life together, they had hoped for a big family. Only one had come to bless their union. So they actually showered upon Tom love sufficient for a huge family. Fanny felt each year of their life spread out rich and full, but she admitted the two weeks going to see Tom was the highlight of the whole year. As she thought about it, they spent six months of the year remembering their trip, recalling the sheer joy of it all. Then they spent the next five and a half months planning for the next trip. Now the time was here almost. They would leave on their trip in twelve more days. Fanny had their clothes all cleaned and pressed. Now she had this lovely new dress made to add sparkle to her wardrobe—and to remember the trip, after it was all over. Fanny sat back and for a few minutes admired her work, as the dress hung on a hanger over the door. It was pretty. She had had good luck with it. The dress fit perfectly and felt good. It was so pretty she was tempted to wear it on the trip. But she thought it would be more fun to bring it out fresh and lovely for Tom and Barbara to see her in it, for the first time. "My goodness, I've been so engrossed in my sewing, I haven't even watched for the mailman." Fanny hurried to the front door. A letter from Barbara! No! It's Tom's handwriting. How thoughtful of Tom to take time to write. He usually phoned, and left the writing to Barbara. Fanny Carlsen tore the envelope open quickly and unfolded the letter. It was actually just a short note, probably a last minute invitation. Tom was so thoughtful. Fanny started reading, but before she had finished she withered into a nearby chair. Dear Mother and Dad: We won't be having house guests this summer. We'll reserve a room for you at one of the motels. Okeh? Love, Tom. When Fanny finally looked up from the letter lying on her lap, there was a blur over her eyes, like a cataract. She kept blinking to clear her vision, but the tears kept coming. Fanny was thankful to be THAT CERTAIN SPARKLE alone. She hoped none of the neighbors dropped in until... Until she had more control... Until she could put on a gay front... A pin-up smile. She knew it was downright foolish to cry like this. She mustn't make a mountain out of a molehill. Tom had sent his love. Some would think him generous, giving them the luxury of motel accommodations. And yet—what was the saying her mother used when she made beds on the floor for the family when company came? "There's room in the house, if there's room in the heart." Through the tears, Fanny looked at the new dress. It somehow seemed hollow and lifeless. Where was the sparkle the dress had only minutes before? She would have to get hold of herself. She was acting like Chicken Little with the sky falling. Lots of things had _ happened in life worse than this. Think of poor little Mrs. Findley down the street with her letter only this week from Viet Nam— killed in action. "T wish Alex didn't have to see the letter. It will hurt him to the marrow." Fanny couldn't conceive of not showing it to Alex. She hadn't ever been deceitful. Then, too, keeping the letter would not solve the problem. She and Alex had shared all their joys and sorrows. They would have to share the letter and work something out together. 'Poor, dear Alex." Alex was getting along in years. He had been so proud that he could still drive those long miles to Tom's. Occasionally they had talked about the years ahead, 263 APRIL 1966 when Alex might not be able to drive. When that time came they would take the bus or the train. If they were financially able, they might fly to Tom's. But never had they considered not going to Tom's during their vacation. Of course, in the far distant years perhaps, when their health failed, they might not be able to go. But they prayed day by day that God would bless them with health and strength and finances to go to Tom's. In their most haunting nightmares they had never suspicioned that perhaps Tom and Barbara and the children didn't want them to come. Had they actually—through the years—been unwanted guests? Fanny felt another deluge of tears breaking forth. She must not cry. She must be more prayerful. It was hard to ask God to touch your own son's heart so that he wanted you. One could pray for protection for one's child, but it was hard to pray for —for his love. When a child is small he needs his parents. When he is grown, is such a need completely obliterated? Yet parents never outgrow the need to be needed. She had thought their visits were of mutual enjoyment. How blind she must have been. Fanny Carlsen felt the dear old chair putting comforting arms about her. She leaned back. It was last year's June, with June's gentleness.... "There's Tom's house now, Alex! Tom is coming out of the door and down the walk." "Now, Mother, wait until I get the jitney stopped before you get owt," 264 'Hello, Mother.'"' Tom kissed her tenderly on the lips. "Sure is good to see you, Dad. Did the car make it OK?" Tom's arm went around his father's shoulder. Then Barbara came out of the house. "Dad and Mother Carlsen, it's a happy day for us when you arrive. We have all looked forward to your company." Charlie, the youngest, bounced out of the house next, his black hair wild on his head. "Grandma! Grandpa@ I've been watching the road all day, until I had to empty the garbage and." "Good little Green-Light Charlie."" Alex swooped him up in his arms. The special name for Charlie was because he had so much go, Alex said. The screen door opened with a wham, spilling forth three more grandchildren who all swarmed about them with hugs and kisses. "Can you carry that little overnight bag for Grandma, Charlie? I'll take these two big suitcases." '"'Aw, let me carry two, Tom J. I'm big now." '"'We want you to have our bedroom, Grandma. Don't we, Charlie?" "But where will you boys sleep?" "Tom J. And I are sleeping in scout bags in the basement, and if it is real warm and nice, Mama said we might get to sleep outside under the stars." "T hate for you boys to have to sleep outside." Charlie's eyes were like stars when he replied: "Gosh, Grandma, we like to do that!" Tom J. Put the suitcases down in his room and turned to his Grandmother, "I hope that mo- saic tile plaque I'm working on doesn't bother you on the dresser." "Tom J., your things won't bother us a mite." Fanny's mind, like a jet plane in flight, traveled back to another summer when Susan and Carol had given up their room. They had said at the time they enjoyed sleeping on the davenport in the family room. Perhaps she should suggest to Alex that they just stay home for their two weeks' vacation. But that wasn't such a good idea. If Alex were in town and something went wrong at the plant, they would call him back to work. Alex needed to get away for awhile. Fanny's horizons seemed to be closing in on her. Promptiy at five thirty-seven, Alex drove his car into the garage. A person could set her clock on Alex's comings and goings. As he came toward the house, Fanny studied his powerful face which the years had lined deeply. She saw, too, the wisdom and the mellowness in his eyes. She would hold the letter until after supper, unless, of course, Alex insisted. Alex showered, then came in and sat down at the table. Dinner was ready. Fanny was glad she had prepared things he liked especially well. As he unfolded his napkin, Alex asked: "Any mail today?" "Yes, Alex, there was a short note from Tom." "What did he say?" "T'll get it for you." "Don't bother, it can wait until after supper." When the dishes were finished, and Alex was resting in his faTHAT CERTAIN SPARKLE vorite chair, Fanny handed him Tom's letter. She watched him as he read it, but his face showed no outward effects. Without comment, he picked up the paper and scanned it carefully, making an occasional comment regarding world problems. Fanny started crocheting. She was making a bedspread for Tom and Barbara for Christmas, and it took every moment of her spare time. Alex finished with the paper, folded it neatly and set it aside. He slumped down in his chair and sighed. "Glad to know Tom is so successful." "What do you mean, Alex?" '"'Must be doing pretty well, offering to put us up in a motel." Fanny wasn't in the mood to pass it off as a joke, yet she knew Alex had no malice. Alex was as Nathanael of old, a man without guile. Alex considered the frugalness of words a virtue, so they held hands. "Fanny, how would you like to take a fishing trip for a change this summer? Sam Oldroyd suggested we go to Yellowstone with Martha and him." "T guess we could, Alex, but we see them the year around. | get lonesome to see the children, but whatever you say, Alex." "It will do us both good to have a different vacation." Alex looked up, and for the first time, noticed the dress hanging on the door. "T see you made your new dress for the trip." "T just finished it. Today, Alex." "It will hardly do for a fishing trip, will it?" "No, it isn't at all suitable for 265 APRIL 1966 that. But I'll get a lot of use out of it, for years to come, actually." "Well, it's time for an old man to hit the hay. I had a hard day at the plant." Ding! 'Goodness, who could be calling this time of night, Alex?" "Tl get it, Fanny." "Night letter for Mr. And Mrs. Carlsen." "T'm Carlsen." "Sign here, please." "Thanks."' Alex closed the door. "Fanny, here's a telegram. A night letter, I believe the messenger boy called it. It's from Tom." "T hope nothing is wrong." '"'Here, read it." "IT wish you would, Alex." "Go ahead, Fanny." Alex withdrew the yellow sheet from the envelope and handed it to her. Fanny's voice trembled, and confusion spread a_ pink mantle across her face. Dear Folks: The pop music is so hectic around our house, I thought I would give you a treat of peacefulness at the motel across the street. But Barbara and the children vetoed the idea completely at our regular weekly home evening. During our family council meeting, we decided to fix up the attic into a really nice room with bath special for you both. Things should be completed when you get here the 15th of June. I wanted to phone and tell you all about it, but Barbara remembered how Mother likes to keep important things in her Book of Remembrance, and thought you might like this night letter. We are all looking forward to seeing you. Love from all of us. Tom and Family. "Oh, Alex!" Fanny rushed toward him. Her cheek fitted against his chin. And it was the security of heaven to have his arms around her. Then Alex tipped her chin up and looked mischievously into her eyes. "Do you want me to accept Sam Oldroyd's offer to go fishing?" "Oh, Alex, I would lots rather go to Tom's, if you don't mind." "To Tom's it will be." Alex smiled broadly. The dim light made the moment intimate, but Fanny stole a glance over Alex's shoulder at the new dress still hanging on the door. "It does have that certain sparkle!" Fanny was so glad she had made the dress for the trip. SUDDENLY IT'S SPRING Annie Atkin Tanner Like winter birds in flight, The snow seemed suddenly to disappear. | looked up, a new green was on the hill, And in the garden, before my unbelieving eyes, Was a golden daffodil. 266 York Newspaper for Magazine photography in specialist in United States ChilC., after ing widespread famine \ ith Pakistan over day car s 's Bureau, Washington, V4" d sectional making a lone and detailed investiga that nearly 4 million chilRelief Society heads a is no Way ffered by inade vised children, hi results from this Mormon ha. She heard linquency Wi! Was introfailure," she says: rted that over 50U, yoluntary ident of ston repo Britain are active in in Great service. Lydia Diaz, one ° iti young women,! S ' State In \iant and a ing her way through college as niversity of many division otal EDITORIAL "*The Flowers Appear on the Earth' R When the season of blossoming returns, each winterbound woman rejoices in the coming of grass and flowers and new leaves and buds upon boughs long accustomed to an etching of the snow. One equinox brings the time of earth's renewal to the Northern Hemisphere, and another time of the earth's turning brings warmth and color and seedtime to the Southern Hemisphere. All who have known the darkness and the whiteness, the barren bough, and the mounded garden, turn their eyes toward a new season—perhaps to a hillside suddenly sprinkled with the earliest yellow blossoms, or to a protected place where the wild primroses open their pointed buds. A woman, on a springtime morning, may become an explorer in the domain of her own garden, a searcher for the first crocus and the earliest hyacinth. Even those who have known deep sorrow or illness or pain find a spiritual renewal when the earth appears in new apparel. Through the long ages, in every land, the woman who is devoted to making her home, indoors and outdoors, a place of beauty, has disciplined herself to appreciation of whatever natural beauty may be in her surroundings, and has become a specialist in the art of beautifying her home with some green and growing plant, or with some bulb or branch that may be induced to wear a crown of blossoms. Many women, by force of circumstances, must live in gray and barren places. One woman, desert-bound, became discontented and told her husband that she could no longer live in a place devoid of beauty. He reminded her of the quietness of the desert, the vast serenity, the evening shadows, and the coral mists of morning. But she was not satisfied. ''Show me one beautiful flower,'' she said, "'and | will stay.'" A few weeks later, they walked to a nearby hillside, and there a tall yucca, with a cone of yellow blossoms, graced the dark lava rocks. It was a lesson to the woman, and, ever afterwards, she Volume 53 APRIL 1966 e Belle S. Spafford, President - @ Marianne C. Sharp, First @ Louise W. Madsen, Second e Hulda P. Young, Sec looked for beauty in nature, and she made a pansy plot by the back door of her home, and a circle of petunias by the front steps. Another woman, whose circumstances demanded frequent changes in the homeplace, was a geranium fancier. She experimented with many varieties—fluted leaves, silver-bordered leaves; she rejoiced in pure white single blossoms, and in dark red blooms of imposing size and abiding fragrance. When each time of moving came, she carefully packed her geranium plants, and in each new home, after a period of special care and adjustment, the geraniums bloomed again, and the woman felt that she was at home. The feeling of contentment imbued her family, and they all rejoiced in the belief that home is where the flowers are. Small girls in the home may become delighted with the floral kingdom by exercising ownership and responsibility for a houseplant that responds to regular care and the loving touch. One mother allocated a small parcel of the garden plot to each of her young daughters. The eldest planted a circle of dwarf marigolds, bordered with a rim of red lettuce. The planning of the small garden was an adventure; there was mystery in the feel and the shape of the seeds; the first sprouts were symbols of perfection; and the yellow flowers, eventually appearing, seemed even more radiant against the crinkled, dark red lettuce leaves. It was the girl's own beautiful, delightful garden; and years later, when more sophisticated landscaping appealed to the grown woman, she still remembered with a feeling of great joy, a childhood appointment with springtime. Much of earth's sorrow and disappointment can be lessened by an appreciation of opportunities to establish a degree of beauty in a woman's domain—the home— inside and out. —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Elina P. Haymond Hazel S. Love Cleone R. Eccles Edith S. Elliott Mary R. Young Fawn H. Sharp Edythe K. Watson Florence J. Madsen Mary V. Cameron Celestia J. Taylor Ellen N. Barnes Leone G. Layton Afton W. Hunt Irene C. Lioyd Kathryn S. Gilbert Blanche B. Stoddard Wealtha S. Mendenhall Anne R. Giedhill Verda F. Burton Evon W. Peterson Elsa T. Peterson Belva B. Ashton Myrtle R. Olson Aleine M. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Zola J. McGhie Alice C. Smith Josie B. Bay Elizabeth B. Winters Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen LaRue H. Rosell Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Mildred B. Eyring Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Alice L. Wilkinson frene W. Buehner Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind b Notes to the Field \; Vigan oon 4 =. ARN Nee = 5 |} A) lf DO YOU CONTEMPLATE A CHANGE OF ADDRESS? If so, please notify The Relief Society Magazine office, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, four weeks in advance, what your new address will be. Be sure to include your old address, or send the address label from one of your magazines. The Post Office does not forward copies of the Magazine without charging additional postage, but the Magazine oftice will send the Magazine to you without interruption, if you promptly notify them of your move. COC ~ LD "HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP"' Christie Lund Coles Let peace fall upon me Let me envision shade and sun Gently as first snow, As my hands grow still, Making a down-dipped night. Calm as a lost midnight Let me not doubt, but know. Moon above the hill. Let me recall briefly Let me sleep as a child A summer morning, cool, After ecstatic play, As dew and quiet water Losing the blinding glare In an amber pool. Of the dream-stilled day. Let me relive moments It is a simple thing to ask, Where stream-waters pass, A simple promise, Lord, to keep, Caressing the brown rocks, Saying the words in quiet prey And the spear-pointed grass. "Father in heaven, let me 270 Look Fight to the Cancer GREGORY PECK Future Chairman, 1966 Crusade, American Cancer Society, Inc. @ It has been well said that the first thing to save for your old age is you. A generation ago, the concepts of hope and cancer were mutually exclusive. Today, the climate has changed—the climate is hope. The American Cancer Society has announced a stepped-up five-year attack on the six major forms of cancer which cause forty-eight per cent of cancer deaths in this country. Althought many of these cancers are being cured, many more could be cured, a Society spokesman said, if cancers of the six sites were detected early and properly treated. The six sites are the uterus, colon and rectum, breasts, mouth, lungs, and skin. In uterine cancer, the painless, inexpensive ''Pap'' test can detect the disease before it can be seen. If the disease is treated at this stage, the percentage of cure approaches 100 per cent. Some women whose cancers have been detected this early have been cured and have borne children after their cure. About seventy-five to eighty per cent of localized colon and rectum cancer can be detected by a doctor in an office examination with a proctoscope—a slim, lighted tube. A large percentage of these cancers can be cured, and disability prevented, through regular examination. Breast cancer is the most common form of the disease in women. But women themselves can help find it early enough for cure through monthly self-examination—which they can learn from an American Cancer Society film—or from their own doctor. An estimated eighty per cent of lung cancer is caused by cigarette smoking. Thus, some 35,000 lives a year could be saved if Americans did not smoke cigarettes. The American Cancer Society urges teenagers not to start smoking—for the habit, started early, is difficult to break later in life. The percentage of cure of mouth, tongue and other cancers in the mouth could be raised through regular cancer detection examination and proper treatment when cancer is found. Most skin cancer is caused by excessive exposure to sunlight. Incidence of skin cancer could be reduced sharply, if people would protect themselves from this avoidable hazard. While concentrating its attack on these six sites, the Society is, at the same time, planning large increases in research expenditures to find further causes and cures of cancer. Its ultimate purpose is eradicating all forms of cancer. FIGHT CANCER WITH A CHECK-UP AND A CHECK! 271 ne ae IN = Y (sy) Hirthday Present for Amy mary 2x Knowtes @ It was two days before her birthday when Amy Barkdall saw the sign tacked on the red brick house. She was trudging up the steep hill, pulling her two small boys in a wagon. The sign said: WASHER FOR SALE—CHEAP. Amy stopped. She was a tall, slender girl with winged eyebrows and wavy brown hair. She had a large bag of laundry slung over her shoulder. She felt a tremor of excitement. I want that washer for my birthday. Then the excitement died. Jeff still had two years of college. She was about to walk on and then the events of the morning at the laundromat came back to her. Four-year-old Chris and the Palmer boy had got in a fight. Threeyear-old Mike had fallen and 272 bumped his head. She thought desperately, I cannot go through another such morning. It wouldn't hurt to look. She knocked on the back door. After a moment the door opened and a woman stood there. She had a pretty middleaged face, but she looked so sad that Amy's throat tightened. Amy said, "I'm Mrs. Barkdall. Could I please see the washer?" '"'You're the first prospect," the woman smiled. "It's in the basement." Amy helped the boys down the stairs. It was a full-length basement with a rubber tiled floor. In the doorway to the large laundry room the woman paused. "'T'll sell it for fifty dollars." Amy looked at the washer and excitement made her tremble. It was a sturdy white washer, with a large-sized tub and a wringer of fat rubber rollers. Amy gasped, "Why, it looks new." "It's only eight years old. A month ago my husband bought me an automatic washer and dryer. But I really don't even need that now." She bit her lip and tears flooded her eyes. 'Would you like to buy it?" "It's a marvelous bargain." Amy felt almost ill with longing. "But my husband's a student and well, you know how it is." "You bet I do.' The woman smiled softly. "Mr. Kincaid was in the building business, and we had such a struggle at first. Even buying a pair of shoes took close figuring." Amy heard a crash and turned. Mike had dumped over a basket of clothes pins. He sobbed forlornly. "Don't scold him." Mrs. Kincaid picked him up, and soothed, "There now, fellow, don't cry." The tears stopped and Mike flirted outrageously. Amy thought, with quick repentance, I'm so tired, I'm an old grouch with my babies. Mrs. Kincaid laughed softly. "I had four boys of my own, such noisy, adorable little boys.'"' She held Mike tighter. '"They're all grown and moved away now." There was an awkward silence, and Mrs Kincaid said. "If I reduced the price of the washer to thirty-five dollars, maybe...." "Thank you, but I couldn't even manage then. Come boys," she said quickly. Another second and she would be crying. She started up the hill again, pulling the boys, and the bag of washing seemed heavier. ResentBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ment within Amy flared. In the beginning Jeff had taken the clothes to the laundromat in the evening and studied between tubsful, but he couldn't take enough books for reference, so he had tended the boys while she went to the laundromat. Now he didn't even do that. Only thirty-five dollars. If only _ they could manage it somehow. But in her mind's eye, Amy saw the next two years in an all-encompassing flash. There wouldn't be one spare dollar. For a moment Amy wallowed in self-pity. Twice a week she had to tote the laundry up the hill. Her problems weren't even important to Jeff anymore, and he had been in an indifferent mood when he left that morning. SHE reached University Village and paused, feeling, even in her depressed state, a moment of gratitude that their apartment was on the first floor. The first year they had lived on the third floor of the converted army barracks. As Amy opened the door of I-A, the door down the _ hall opened, and Sally Stoddard stuck her head out. "What time do you want me tonight, Amy?" Sally's husband, Allan, was a medical student, and _ Sally swelled the family treasury by baby-sitting. Amy remembered that tonight was the lecture at the home of Professor Hopfield. This morning she had looked forward to the event and had made a wide cummerbund of crimson velvet to wear with her black velvet quilted skirt and white blouse. There would be interesting people, and 273 | APRIL 1966 Mrs. Hopfield made such good apple pie. She thought, I'm not going; but she knew she couldn't ask Jeff to stay home. '"We'll leave at 7:45, Sally." Amy opened the door and the clutter of the rooms hit her. This morning she had been proud of their small apartment. They had painted old furniture turquoise, dyed white muslin sheets scarlet, put an array of brightly colored bottles on shelves in the windows. But now it looked shabby and makeshift. How am I going to stand another two years of just existing? She thought wildly. She fed the boys and put them down for naps. She hung the washing on lines placed close together and stretched the length of the hall, hanging the small things at one end, so there was an arched passageway into the bedroom. She was stirring tomato sauce that evening when she _ heard Jeff's whistle. She thought, "Thank heavens his black mood is past."" He came in, a tall lanky man with auburn hair. He kissed her, and she felt happy and breathless and loved. She saw a glow in Jeff's eyes as if a light was turned on inside him. "Jeff, something wonderful has happened!"' "Sure," he said innocently, "the day after tomorrow is your birthday."' The two boys came running to pull Jeff into the livins room. She heard them laughing and scuffling. Jeff was in a rare good humor. Maybe it wouldn't hurt just to mention the washer. She hurried into the living room. "Jeff " and stopped. The 274 Engineer's Magazine had come today. Jeff was lost to her and Chris and Mike. There was a good crowd all laughing and talking when they reached Professor Hopfield's, and Amy tried to lift her spirits to a party mood, but she still felt blue and depressed. Mrs_ Hopfield came up to her. She was a small, thin woman in a blue crepe dress. Amy smiled, ''Hello, Mrs Hopfield. How are you?" And Mrs Hopfield said, "I'm glad you like me in blue, dear." Amy wanted to weep. Mrs. Hopfield had forgotten her hearing aid again. The speaker, Dr. Bromly, had a voice that stayed dangerously in the middle register. Amy tried not to listen too intently. She gazed fondly at Professor Hopfield and thought he looked like an elderly Spitz dog, with his fuzzy white hair. But now the speaker's low voice reached her, soothing, somnolent. Jeff shook her, whispering angrily. "You were snoring, Amy." Tears stung her eyes. She thought, darn it, darn it, I'm tired. When the speaker finally finished winding his words into a soft woollen ball, Amy fled to the kitchen to help Mrs. Hopfield, 'Would you like me to cut the pie?" she asked. "No thanks, dear, I'll pass the napkins and you cut the pie." Amy was cutting apple pie when Professor Hopfield came in, his face wreathed with smiles. "Aren't you proud of Jeff?" "Why yes, I." she stammered. 'Winning first prize in. "In what?" she demanded. "Oh, dear, he hasn't told you." 99 Professor Hopfield looked distressed. "T'll bet he's keeping it for a birthday surprise. Please tell me!" "He won fifty dollars for his article submitted to the Engineer's Quarterly Contest.". Fifty dollars. More than enough for the washer! "Oh, I'm so thrilled." "You won't tell him I told you?" "Not a word. I promise."' On the walk home she gave Jeff an amusing account of the morning's activities. Deftly she slipped in the information about the washer. She glanced up to see Jeff staring ahead absorbed in thought and her heart plummeted. Then he said, "Sounds like a good buy." Amy's heart thudded against her ribs. "It's for sale at the red brick house up from the laundromat." "The veranda?"' "Yes, that's the one." Jeff began to hum 'Happy Birthday to You." His step quickened as if he had made up his mind about something. One with the wide THatT night she could not sleep. Where would she put the washer? She remembered the large clothes closet. She got quietly out of bed and measured it with a yardstick. Bless the architect! The closet was almost as large as the kitchenette. Next morning she awakened with a start. Jeff wasn't through classes and lab until after one. As soon as he had gone to school she asked Sally, '"'Please would you be an angel and watch the BIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY boys for about half an hour?" "Of course, Amy." She ran down the hill. If the washer was sold she would slump down dead on Mrs. Kincaid's back porch. But the sign was still there. Mrs. Kincaid smiled when she saw her. "'You've come for the washer!" She explained about the prize money. "I let Jeff know about the washer, and how much I want it and he'll be here today, but he isn't through classes until after one. Oh, please could you...?" "There was another woman coming to look at it, but I won't be back from a Singing Mothers' practice until noon. I won't sell the washer, I promise." "Oh, thank you, thank you!" It was 6:15 when Sally told her, "'Allan just telephoned to say he was going somewhere with Jeff and they would be late." But of course! Amy thought. Allan has a trailer. He will help Jeff bring the washer home. 'Oh, Sally,"' Amy cried. '"Aren't husbands a wonderful invention? I'm glad I'm married to mine for time and all eternity!"' "What has happened?" Sally dimpled. Amy almost told her about the washer and then decided against it. She wouldn't spoil Jeff's surprise. "Oh, nothing, except that tomorrow is my birthday, and I still believe in miracles." When Jeff came home he was like a small boy trying to keep a secret. As she drifted off to sleep that night she wondered, when will Allan and Jeff bring the washer in? Then she thought, I'm sure they have that all figured out, and fell asleep. The next thing she knew Jeff 275 YG like it, was shaking her and_ saying: "Happy Birthday, Sweetheart," and the boys were saying, "Get up, Mommy." She jumped out of bed in her red pajamas. She reached the door, ready to shout, "Oh, you darling, you bought the washer!"' There was no washer in the room, but on the kitchen table was a large oblong box. For a moment, disappointment stabbed so sharply she almost moaned with pain, and then Jeff grabbed the box and handed it to her. It looked like a package from an exclusive woman's dress shop. A horrible thought darted into her mind but she tried to push it away. | "Honey," Jeff explained, "IJ won a fifty-dollar prize for an article in the Engineer's Quartera' ""How wonderful, Jeff!" "And I bought something for you I've always wanted you to have." He was almost bursting with excitement. Amy placed the box on the kitchen table. With trembling hands, she untied the string. Inside was a_ tissue wrapped package tied with silver ribbon. The beat of her heart slowed and stopped. Oh, Jeff, you wouldn't no Jeff. Bd 276 Finally she parted the tissue paper. She saw pale blue nylon net, pale blue satin. She lifted out a net negligee, an exquisite satin nightgown. She gasped, "Oh, Jeff!" She wanted to cry, this useless finery. How could you be so stupid! And then she heard his boyish, proud laugh. "Do you sweetheart?" and the angry words stuck in her throat. She could only throw her arms around his neck and sob, "Jeff, Jeff!" "Don't cry, darling," he said gently. "I know you've always wanted something like this, and someday I'll buy you all the other things that go with them." THERE was a bang on the door and Allan's voice, "Sally is frying pancakes for a birthday girl. Come have some." Jeff said, "We'll there." Amy said, "You go and help Allan set up the card tables. I'll dress the boys and come." She had to get control of herself. After he had gone, Amy stood holding the nightgown in her hands, tears running down her cheeks. Chris pulled at her skirt. "Mommy crying.?" "Yes, I'm howling!" "T'll tell you what I'm going to do. Monday your Mommy is going to return this - - this frippery, and get the money back and." "Oh, don't do that, child!" Amy swung around to see Mrs. Kincaid standing in the doorway. "TI came to see why your husband didn't call about the washer, the door was open." "My husband didn't call for the washer because he spent his be right prize money on this! He needs a suit, the boys need shoes." ~ "T know, dear.'' Mrs. Kincaid said sympathetically, "husbands can be very exasperating."' "He buries his nose in his books and he doesn't even see my problems. Sure, be a good sport, help him get his degree. Well, I'm going to tell him a few facts about my life!"' "Don't make a mistake!" Mrs. Kincaid said sharply. ''I did that years ago. Sam gave me an expensive quilted robe for Christmas. I told him plenty!" her voice faltered and then hurried on. "I warned him never to do such a silly thing again. I took the robe back, and with the money I bought shoes and house dresses and a heavy iron skillet." Mrs. Kincaid walked over to the table and held up the' sheer negligee. "I hurt his pride so terribly that he never gave me anything frivolous again. Two weeks ago he died and." Tears ran down the older woman's cheeks. "I wish I had understood then that men are the most romantic creatures in the world. They like to believe they possess a woman so helpless and fragile that she must be wrapped in satin and furs. This period of scrimping and_ struggling will pass, and your husband will be a success, but when it is over, will he still see you as his beautiBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ful and precious queen he took to the temple?" Amy looked at the froth of nylon and knew that Jeff didn't see her at all in terms of diapers and washers. She prayed, oh, let me always walk with beauty in his eyes. She said, "Thank you for telling me all this, Mrs. Kincaid." "Why don't you come to my house and use my new automatic washer and dryer, Mrs. Barkdall? If you wish, you may pay me the same amount you pay at the Laundromat. There are boxes of toys that belonged to my children. Oh, I would so enjoy having your babies around." The loneliness in her voice caught at Amy's throat. She said, "Thank you, Mrs. Kincaid. I'll be there at ten day after tomorrow." After the older woman had gone, Amy leaned against the table, looked around, and her world righted itself. It was a gay, smart apartment with lots of personality and hadn't they been clever to do it all so cheaply! This was her birthday and the Sabbath. Her heart quickened with anticipation. They would have breakfast with their friends, and they would walk to Sunday 'School with their little boys. They would smile at each other, two people, a man and his wife, still very much in love! BRIDAL SPRING Pearle M. Olsen Expected beauties warm our ready hearts With things familiar in spring's lavish days Of blossoming in bridal finery— The drifting petals, choirs of lilting birds— And bees in winged ballet Give us delight—in bountiful degree! 277 5 NO PETAL LOST Blanche Kendall McKey There was an April once so rich with gold— The sun, the dandelion carpet, and the tulip heads— That children ran and leapt and threw their balls Above the hilltops into the deep, deep blue And squealed as they came bouncing back to earth. They tossed the littlest child so high in the swing f That her small toes touched an overhanging bough, Ravishingly pink and green, and fragrant beyond Any other perfume she had ever known. They raced And laughed. And fell upon the tender grass for breath, So wildly throbbed their sun-borne April joy! And now, as through the years, sweet April walks again, Her shy face almost hidden by her gleaming hair: As her green robe sweeps the brown, lilies spring, The magnolia bursts and the white dogwood, With its reminding cross, cups to the sky.; Azaleas, lavender, cerise, and pink, riot For room to reach the sun. And slowly, bit by bit, The long climb lives again: the laughing and the weeping; The faces changed; the faces here no more; The wrestling with ''Must,'' the never answered "Why?" Yet gently breathes the lilac-scented air: Some things there are that never change— The hawthorne bush, its pink buds wrapped in green; The upward straining of a yearning heart; —— No petal lost; no bird song stilled for long. And in a flash, the struggle shines with purpose; The anguish shapes to wisdom. How gently Sifts to earth this April peace! APPLE BLOSEOMS Luoma Phetes "Looh Mom: Une Hundred Qallars" Helen H. Trutton @ The screen door slammed shut with a loud bang, rapid little footsteps echoed down the hall, and Loren stood looking up at her, his brilliant dark eyes flashing with excitement. "Mom, Mom, guess what?" he yelled. "See what I found. I think it's a hundred dollar bill, and it's all mine, 'cause I found it. It is, isn't it?" Faye stared down at him from her perch atop the ladder, and let the curtain she had been trying to hang float mutely to the floor. "You found a—hundred dollars?"' she asked incredibly, reaching out her hand. "Here, let me see it." She took the crisp bill in her hands and turned it over several times. "It is, or looks genuine all right, but where did you get it?' "By the Harris Grocery Store, lying by the curb. It is mine, isn't it, Mom? Finders keepers! Richard kept my best marble once because he found it." She watched him disappear around the door, without waiting for her answer, and return a moment later carrying a catalogue. "T can buy a bicycle now." He bubbled over with enthusiasm. "When I'm a little older, I can have a paper route. We could sure use the money, Mom." "Hold on a second, honey,' she said, hurrying down the ladder steps. "We have to find the owner. It isn't yours you know. The person who lost it must feel dreadful." The stars left Loren's eyes. "I —TI guess that's more money than we've ever had, except maybe when Daddy was alive." Faye squeezed him tightly against her. "We would be in rather serious circumstances if we lost that much. One hundred dollars is a lot of money. We might check with Mr. Harris." "T already asked him if anybody in his store lost anything. It was almost on his property." '"'What did he say?" "He said, 'No, not that I know of—so guess it's finders keepers, losers weepers, son.' He said that." "But we still have." "But anyone might say it belonged to them," Loren protested. "How can we find the real owner? Oh, Mom," he cried suddenly, letting his body sag against her, "I need a bicycle. I could." 279 APRIL 1966 "TI know, my son," she said, cradling him tenderly in her arms. Then she wiped the hot tears from his cheeks, and smiled down at him. "We'll report it to the police. Whoever lost the money will naturally check with them first off." Loren blinked away one last stubborn teardrop, his eyes brightened. ''And if the owner doesn't show up?" "Don't build up your hopes, dear," she said. "'T'll call Sergeant Thomas right now." She moved away from him, and stepped into the living room. She stopped at the window, suddenly caught up in the enchantment of the lovely scene outside. The gnarled old elm tree was dressed in its new spring finery, such an impressive sight. Dennis always used to insist she had fallen in love with the place simply on the strength of the old elm tree. The day they had signed the contract to buy the house, they had engraved their names on the trunk of the tree like two young lovers. Oh, they were so gay and full of hopes and dreams then. Now it seemed a million years ago. Unconsciously, she ran her slim fingers through aad attractively coiffured black air. Topay was Saturday, the day she and Dennis always spent working in the yard. When they were finished with the day's labor, they would sit under the big sprawling branches of the elm tree and talk over any problems that needed solving. Dennis used to say, "Then we can start Sunday out fresh." If only the three of them could gather around the tree in their old familiar places now, Dennis could help Loren 280 understand why he could not keep the money just because he had found it. He had such a way with him, like the letters he had left. "Mom!" Loren's accusing voice startled her. "You haven't even called the police yet." "Oh, dear." She flushed. "I haven't, have I?" She started to pick up the receiver, then let it fall back on the cradle. "Why not go down to the station?" she asked. "We could leave the money there." "T hope I get to keep the bill, Mom," he said solemnly. "Maybe a real rich man lost it, and he'll never miss it. I've an idea, we could wait to see if someone misses it, and puts an ad in the paper. What do _ you _ think, Mom?"' Faye reached out, and took his hand firmly in hers. "Son, we have to exhaust every means of locating the rightful owner. You do understand that, don't you? It would be terribly dishonest to just wait, hoping no one advertises."' "Tt would?" he asked. "Yes," she said. "That would be taking advantage of someone's misfortune." She hesitated a moment, then turned to him. "Do you mind if I read you the letter Daddy left for your eighth birthday again?" she asked. "It might." Loren looked eagerly at her, his face flushing slightly as he moved to her side. '"Dad's sure smart isn't he, Mom? I can hardly wait until my next birthday to get another one." "Yes, very. Now, would you like.?" "T'll get the letter," he said, disappearing around the hallway entrance. "I know exactly where I keep it." Faye sank down upon the davenpott. She didn't blame her son for being excited at finding q hundred dollars; any child just tumed eight would be quite as thrilled. But still she couldn't help from feeling a little disappointed, too. He had seemed content. With the philosophy of "finders keepers," with no concern for the loser. Or was she being too critical? Of course he would understand when they found the owner. Children usually had to see the evidence to identify their feelings, and the person who had lost the money was almost intangible in his mind. Loren was barely eight. She looked up when he darted back into the room, and snuggled up against her on the davenport. "Here you are, Mom," he said handing her the envelope. "Tm ready." She took the letter from his hands, and read in a low voice. Dearest Son: Today you are eight years old, a very important year in your life. You will have reached. The age of accountability. We talked many times about what it means, and you've learned of it in Sunday School and Primary. It's a great privilege to go into the waters of baptism, son. But it will also mean more responsibility for you. Bea good, honest boy, and you'll grow up to be a real fine man. Watch over Mother. Mind her, and others over you. Be happy the two of you, I love you both so much. Love, Dad. Loren took the letter from her trembling hands. "Every year Vil get a letter from Daddy until I'm how old?" he asked. "Twenty-one." "T don't ever want to get past "LOOK MOM: ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS" twenty-one," he said, close to tears. "Never!" Faye stood up and caught his hand in hers. "wed better get down to the station. Maybe the person is there already. We wouldn't want to keep him waiting, NOW would we?" He looked at the opened catalogue. "No, Mom, I guess not." Poor child, she thought, with his vivid little imagination, he undoubtedly spent the hundred dollars five minutes after he found it. One of these days when she could see her way clear, Loren would have a bicycle of his own. Right now other things had to come first, like bills. Almost every other boy in the neighborhood owned a bicycle. Sue draped a shawl over her shoulders and picked up her purse. "Tt's such a delightfully warm spring day," she said, "shall we walk to the station? It isn't far, hardly worth getting the car out of the garage." "Sure, let's do," he answered. "T can hold the money longer." "JT hope the owner hasn't been {oo 'nconvenienced," she said, hurrying down the steps. "I can imagine his concern." Loren did not answer, but amused himself by petting every friendly dog that bounced down the sidewalks from the houses they passed. Once he stopped and watched a robin tug with an uncooperative worm who apparently had no desire to be devoured, and he laughed gleefully. Then he sobered, and looked up at her thoughtfully. "Who said, 'losers weepers, finders keepers, anyway, Mom?" She stopped. "T don't know, really." 281 APRIL 1966 '"'Doesn't it mean whoever finds something keeps it?" "IT suppose it means that if the finder can't locate the owner, the loser would weep over it, depending on what was lost. But you have to try and find the loser— that's important."' "Not everyone tries, though, do they?" "Tf he or she wants to do the right thing, they do." "Does it depend on what you find? If I found ten dollars instead of one hundred...?" "The amount isn't important. We'd still have to report the find." "Oh," he said, and they walked the rest of the way to the station without speaking. Often she glanced down at him. He was such a precious miniature image of his father. He was too young to realize the effort that went into that letter and all the others Dennis had written in the final days of his illness. Nor could he begin to understand the love that was contained in each one of them, but someday he would. Sergeant Thomas glanced up from his desk when they entered the room, and motioned them over to his side, with a quizzical smile. ""Now what would be bringing my neighbors to the station?" ne asked, and then his smile turned to concern. 'Is there anything wrong?" Loren didn't wait for her to speak, but swung up to the desk and laid the hundred dollar bill near Sergeant Thomas' hand. "I found this," he said, pointmg to the money, "over by the Harris Grocery Store by the curb, and Mom says finders aren't keepers until we see if we can find the real owner." 282 "Have you had any inquiries?" Faye asked the startled policeman. "He just found it today." He gave a low whistle, and turned the bill over in his hands. "One hundred dollars? That's a lot of money to lose. No, not a soul has reported the loss yet." "How long?" Loren began. The Sergeant interrupted. "Probably just a few hours, maybe less before the owner misses it. Not too many folks around here are so wealthy they wouldn't discover a shortage like that." "You do have a waiting period don't you?" Faye asked. "The loss may not be noticed immediately." "Yes, a week, on some items, but on something this important, I expect we should hold it thirty days. You know, someone might have tucked the bill away in his billfold, and not look for it in days." "That long?' Loren exclaimed. "Y'm afraid so," Sergeant Thomas replied. ""We do want to give the loser every opportunity, don't we?" Loren ducked his head. "Yes, Sir." The kindly policeman walked to the door with them, holding Loren's hand. "We _ appreciate people like you," he said, smiling at Faye, and then bending down to Loren, he slipped his arm around his shoulder. 'Thanks, son. You're going to be a fine man just like your father." Loren tore his gaze away from a young boy riding by on a bicycle, and swallowed. "Every year I'll get a letter from Dad until I'm twenty-one." "And each one you'll appreciate more," he answered. "Oh, Loren, I'll let you know just as soon as we hear about the money." "Can—may I call you every day, too?" Sergeant Thomas laughed. "Of course, as often as you like. Goodbye." They hurried home. It was all she could do to keep up with her young son. "I've got to be home to answer the telephone when Sergeant Thomas alls," he explained his haste. "Oh, Mom, if he dosen't call?" "But surely he will. Don't dream about spending the money, dear. One of these days, we'll buy you a bicycle." "When?" he asked eagerly. "T expect by the time you are ready for a paper route." Loren rushed ahead of her into the house, and darted over to the telephone. "'TI'll call the station," he said, ''in case Sergeant Thomas has tried to get me." Faye laughed in spite of the serious little face before her. "No, no, not so soon. He'll call. I doubt if you'll have to wait long."' But she was wrong. One day passed, followed by another, with no news. And now just one week of waiting was left. She leaned back in her chair at the breakfast table wondering about it. Maybe they weren't doing all they could. It was possible he or she hadn't thought of checking with the police. She touched Loren's hand across the table. "Son," she said, ''we could advertise. We could say something like this: 'Will person who lost money recently, contact police station, identifying same?' What do yeu think?" He didn't answer for a long while. Finally he said, "O. K., Mom." "LOOK MOM: ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS" The last few days were the worst it seemed to her. Sergeant Thomas agreed to the advertisement. Nothing new happened except Loren became more excited, his appetite waned, his sleep was restless. It isn't fair, she thought, to put a youngster through such suspension. That saying should be "finders weepers." Her household had suffered more than the loser, or so it appeared. Art last, the time was up. Sergeant Thomas called early the next morning, after the final date, in a cheerful mood. "Tell Loren he has complied with the law; he's the legal owner." She thanked him. "I do feel badly, Sergeant," she said. "I was in hopes." "We all were. Will you be down soon?" "Yes," she answered, 'Loren will be anxious." Soon the two of them were walking down the familiar street to the station. Loren was unusually quiet. She couldn't read his mind, of course, but she supposed he was overwhelmed at receiving so much money, and she hoped he was thinking of the unfortunate loser. But, child that he was, his enthusiasm suddenly skyrocketed as they entered the station and he caught sight of Sergeant Thomas. He dashed unrestrained to his side, and exclaimed happily, "T can buy a new bicycle now, Sergeant, and Mom can have the rest of the money." The policeman frowned, looked from a man sitting at his left, to Loren, and then to her. "I. I," he began, "last night ended the waiting period, but...°." 283 APRIL 1966 Faye looked at the other man. "The money belongs to him, is that it?" she asked. Sergeant Thomas cleared his throat. 'Yes, but I don't know. He came by a little too late. Legally. " Faye faced the man. 'Why?' she pleaded, 'why didn't you come forward long ago? Why did you have to cause my boy all this anxiety?' She put her hand over her face a moment. Hadn't she been praying the rightful owner would appear? ''Forgive me, Sir," she said calmly now. "It's just that we've been under strain." "I'm sure you have, Ma'am, I'm sorry," he said, standing up and indicating that she sit in the chair he had occupied. "I missed the money right off, but I thought my friend had taken it." He sighed deeply. "I was too hurt to ask him, and then this morning, I noticed the ad.' He walked toward the door. 'Thank you for putting that notice in the paper. I would never have known." "It's yours," Faye said quickly. His eyes brightened for an instant, then he shrugged. "Legally, I think it belongs to your boy." Everyone looked at Loren. Faye put her hand to her mouth to stifle a cry. He was just a child, barely out of the stage of me being the only one who mattered. He couldn't possibly make a right choice at his age— the temptation was too great. It wasn't fair. Quickly she arose to her feet in protest, but Sergeant Thomas motioned her to be quiet. "What's your opinion, Loren?" the officer asked. 284 He didn't answer immediately. She wondered if he had heard him. Maybe he was in shock; she knew such things were possible. Finally, after what seemed an eternity to her, he took the money, and handed it to the man. "I'm sure glad your friend wasn't a thief,' he said thoughtfully. "That would be terrible!"' "Thank you, boy, thank you," the old fellow said over and over again. "But I I." "It belongs to you,' said. The man was at the door now. He turned back to Loren, and with a twinkle in his eyes, said. "Didn't I hear you say you wanted a bicycle, young man?" "Someday I'll own one," he said confidently. 'Mom said so." The elderly gentleman leaned against the door casing, and chuckled to himself. "I bought one a few months back," he said. "Figured I'd learn to ride it, but shucks, I'm too old; it's dangerous. I was just wishing for a lad —TI'll bring it by the station, and you can have it," he said, and he was gone, shuffling down the street, without waiting for an answer. "Mom, Mom, did you hear?" Loren rushed to her side. "A real bicycle. Oh, Mom!" "Yes," she said, in a barely audible voice. "I heard.' Then smiling down at him, she said a little shakily. "Today, Son, you went a long way up that ladder —of becoming a real fine man. Shall x we go home?"' 5) Loren BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 1 egg 1 c. Blueberries, drained 2 c. Flour, sifted 3 tsp. Baking powder 14, tsp. Salt 1 c. Milk 4 tbsp. Shortening 1 tsp. Lemon flavoring 1/3 c. Sugar Grease muffin tins. Set oven at 400°. Beat egg. Melt shortening, add to milk, combine with beaten egg. Sift dry ingredients, saving one tbsp. Flour to shake over berries. Combine liquid and dry ingredients, mix, using about 15 strokes. Fold in floured berries. Batter should be lumpy. Spoon into tins and bake 20 minutes. Yields approximately 18 muffins. May be frozen in plastic bags or wrapped in foil paper. FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 1 pint commercial sour cream 1 large can crushed pineapple pinch salt 2 tbsp. Drained chopped maraschino 14 c. Chopped nuts _ Cherries 2 medium size mashed bananas 1/3 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Drain pineapple and reserve juice for sauce. Mix all together in order given. Place paper muffin cups in muffin tins. Fill cups. Cover with foil paper. Freeze in deep freeze overnight. The paper cups filled with fruit may then be removed and stored in plastic bags in the deep freeze. Remove from deep freeze and place on serving plate on lettuce or water cress about 15 minutes before Serena Yields approximately 16. This salad is delicious as a dessert with cubed fresh fruit on top. SAUCE Bring pineapple juice to a boil. For each cup of juice, take approximately one scant teaspoon of cornstarch which has been dissolved in a little water. Add sufficient liquid cornstarch to thicken sauce. Add a dash of cayenne pepper. Cool. Do not refrigerate. Spoon on top of salad. RECIPES FOR A LUNCHEON CARROTS-TURNIPS ENGLAISE Peel equal quantity of carrots and turnips. Simmer each in separate cooking pots until tender. Drain separately. Mash each well. Combine the carrots and turnips and generously add butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Pour in casserole, dot with butter, and heat before serving. May be prepared the day before, or a couple of days before. Serve the above menu with a thick slice of honey-glazed ham. SPECIAL CHICKEN SALAD 1/3 c. Chicken broth 2 c. Cubed chicken 14, tsp. Salt and 144 tsp. Pepper 2/3 c. Mayonnaise 2 c. Seasoned wild rice, cooked 1 c. Chopped celery 2 tbsp. White vinegar Simmer a 4 to 5 pound roasting chicken in approximately 3 cups of water with one medium size onion and 2 stalks of celery, salt and pepper. Simmer until tender. Strain broth, cool, and chill so that all grease may be removed. Remove chicken from bones and cut into bite-size pieces, chill. Cook rice and cool. Mix salad in order given. Serve in a large bowl garnished with lettuce. May be mixed the day before. On each table place bowls of green, butter-coated chocolate mints (purchased at a candy store), and plates of cookies made from the following recipe: ALMOND COOKIES Cream 1 c. Of butter and 1 c. Of 1 egg sugar 1 c. Almond paste 14, c. Each of slivered almonds and 114 c. Flour coconut 14 tsp. Each of soda and almond 14, tsp. Baking powder flavoring Mix in order given. Drop from teaspoon onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 350° about 15 minutes or until delicately brown. Cy " Aan." ERRATUM (Recipe for Deep Dish Cherry Pudding) It has been brought to our attention that an error was made in the printing of the recipe for ''Deep Dish Cherry Pudding,' which appeared on page 117 of the February issue of the Magazine. The corrected recipe reads as follows: 4lYZ, qts. Pitted red cherries 314 c. Sugar 114 c. Cornstarch i.> p. Mace 5 c. Sugar 2 cups shortening 1 tbsp. Salt. 8 eggs 21% qts. Pancake mix 1 qt. Milk 287 @ Following the marriage of each of our children, my husband and I took a "wedding trip" much needed and highly recommended for all parents as a recuperative measure. We returned from the last such vacation we would make in silence. I wandered through the house, room by room, and had not so much a dejected, lonely feeling as one of frustration. Viewed dispassionately, our home was in a shabby, down-atheels, unattractive, middle-aged slump. I turned to my husband, '"My mother had an unusual system for this time of life. Whenever the last child of a neighbor's family married, my mother gave the parents a shower. She invited all the neighbors and friends in for an afternoon of visiting and a shower." My spouse made no response. I thought the situation over for a time. Obviously, I could not give myself a shower, nor could I suggest to neighbors that one 288 might be appreciated. Finally, I decided I would make a second hope chest and I made myself sit down and list things I intended to accumulate. I was in a department store when the towels caught my eye. I had been silently longing for a pink tile bathroom, with goldcolored fixtures and apple green accents. I selected warm pink towels with gold stripes and a lighter pink to initial in gold. I also found some in solid gold color; these to be initialed in green. J didn't buy haphazardly. I had been using towels all my life, but knew very little about what makes towels good towels. I sought out a buyer and talked with her about towels, and I learned from her how to distinguish a good towel from an inferior one. I learned that a pastel-colored towel is more absorbent than a dark one, because of the dye. I could not lift a heavy towel, when wet, without strain, so, under the buyer's guidance, I selected thick, close terry weaves in medium weight and size. When I got my towels home, I wrapped them in blue tissue and boxed them in a large cardboard box. I taped the edges of the box and labeled it, then stored it on a shelf in the basement. Next came the sheets. I love flowered ones, but frugality dictated white. Again, before making my final decision, I talked with the buyer. I learned I could get sheets made so well that I would not have to bend the mattress to get them over the corners. I looked for these easyfitting corners type. I changed my mind about colored bed linen. I bought stripes galore, with matching cases and those wonderful over-all patterns in gay flowers. I learned ways of making linen ensembles. If I bought two top sheets with fitted corners, I could reverse them, using the fitted ends for the top undersheet and the bottom topsheet. This takes the wear from one sheet and makes them last longer. I went all out for nylon for company sheets. These are a summertime delight, for they are cool. In fact, a nylon undersheet is the best buy in summer comfort I have found, but for our climate it is a bit too cool for winter. It is like sleeping on silk —smooth, cool, luxurious. I really indulged in nylon pillow cases. I have plenty of lovely hand-embroidered and crocheted cases, but I use them only for show. I stocked my hope chest with nylon pillow cases, but decided to try out two pair. Using soap for nylons, I wash and rinse SECOND HOPE CHEST them. I hang them in the air and, in about fifteen minutes, they are ready to use on the bed. I had made quilts during the depression years, but had quite forgotten about them, replacing the worn ones with blankets. When I found a book of quilting patterns in a neighborhood store, I paid my pennies for it and spent the evening ignoring TV while I gloated and dreamed. Imagination raced far ahead of accomplishment, and I finally burst forth, '""Maybe I can't have a shower, but I certainly can have a quilting bee." "Oh, come now." Old Patience tried to discourage me. "No one ever has quilting bees anymore." 1 know that when husbands make a statement wives are supposed to forget the idea birthing in their minds. A week later I unfolded the quilt top I had sewed together from scraps of material from the '"someonemight-need-it"" box. My husband looked it over carefully and commented, "You've got that one block about a quarter-inch out of line." I'm not mathematical, and that quarter-inch I considered mere poetic license. That quilting bee was a real fun session. I still had my oldfashioned quilting frames, so, using dining room chairs padded against damage, we set up the quilt and sewed fine stitches all day long. I'd heard of the new quilting frames that roll, and wanted a pair of them, but these old ones let the quilt stretch out full length for the quilting, showing its lovely design. I used a dacron batt because in 289 APRIL 1966 our climate, unless you use a dryer, it is quite difficult to find "quilt drying weather," and I am old-fashioned enough to _ like wind-dried bedding. The new synthetics give warmth without weight and launder, backing was of good-grade cotton broadcloth, guaranteed color fast. I had invited five friends to come to the bee and, thimbles riding high, they were there by ten in the morning. Four worked at quilting, one to a side, and we other two spanned the quilters. There is something soul-satisfying about a quilting bee with friends, and eating together. Not only is an expressive work of art accomplished during the day, but friendships are deepened and hallowed, problems are shared, and solutions given through the alchemy of understanding and sympathy. It is really a wonderful therapy. At four o'clock the bee was over, and the quilt was almost finished. It was beautiful. After the "goodbyes and thank yous" were said, I noticed a small package on the TV. Thinking one of the quilters had forgotten it, I picked it up. There was a note on it: "A consolation prize for the first person to catch a toe in our stitches." Quilting has grown into a wonderful hobby for the six of us. We make many quilts, from pieced beauties to lovely satin ones, and all our homes display them proudly. I, however, have reserved my loveliest quilts, wrapped and boxed, with the other linens. My husband was duly impressed by our products of industry. He showed them to everyone, until our new grandchild's picture took over. In fact, stirring through the mending box, he found materials he liked and busied himself on an _ off-day, cutting blocks for his own quilt. He sewed his pattern and made a nice top, mannish and geometric. We went together to get the batt and lining, for he would not shop for them alone. We put the quilt on the frames, and with a sheepish look he produced a large thimble, threaded a needle and started to quilt. I was puzzled but impressed; this was the man who couldn't sew on a button. I left him to his quilting and busied myself elsewhere; in three minutes two seconds, came the call for help. '"'How the dickens do you women sew upside-down stitches?" I hadn't expected to have a quilting bee the next day, but I cancelled appointments and the friends who could come gave me a hand with the quilting, and we finally got it finished and off. It is a beautiful quilt, and my husband explains that he made it, "all but the backhand quiltu 39 ing. PRELUDE TO ROSES Kathryn Kay April's faucets Leak and burst, May becomes her plumber, All of June's roots quench their thirst, Stretch, and lo! It's summer! 290 ') De i. Genevieve Van Wagenen @ | love April with its golden daffodils and forsythia, its crocus and purple violets—colors of royalty. April, month of hope and promise—symbol of the resurrection. | love April for its return of green to the blade of grass, the leaf to bush and tree. The premier opening of flower buds, the return of birds, with their songs and nest building industry. | love April with her newborn babies—lambs, calves, and colts with wobbly legs and adorable faces. | love the profuse display of mother love expressed by the animal kingdom. April is a wondrous panorama of nature's obedience to God's command, "Be fruitful."' | love the freshness of April air, the blue of sky, with bouffant clouds toedancing by. The dew that lingers long beneath a gentler sun. | love the feel of exhilaration from the waking soil, the gentle falling rain. | love the fragrant furrowed earth, dark and moist; with white gulls hovering low—a study in contrast and design. | love April, with her fruit trees, bridal gowned and bewitching with perfume. The cuddly pussy willows in their swaying deckered beds. The swelling streams —adventure bound. The weeping willow's fresh dyed wig of yellow green. Her hair color is no secret, she wants the world to know how gay she feels. | love April for ambition that it stirs within the farmer's breast to plow and plant and cultivate. For new energy bestowed on homemakers to clean and beautify. | love April for the exuberance, happiness, and joyous activity it inspires in youth. For thanksgiving and gratitude it prompts in maturity. For freedom from winter's cold and icy grasp. For wondrous thoughts, that turn to love. | love April, for then the saints meet in General Conference. The faithful gather from countries far and near, to hear God's prophet mouthpiece, here on earth. Humbly they gather, willing to be instructed; seeking to be inspired and stimulated by God's chosen leaders. Yes, | love April for many things: for my wonderful Savior; for this beautiful world he created; for his great and willing sacrifice for all mankind; for the assurance of a resurrection; for the restored gospel and plan of salvation that make life glorious, full of purpose and meaning; for living prophets and continuous revelation. | love April. 291 Make a Hickey Wilma B. Lichfield R We are all interested in stretching the clothing budget, and each new technique we learn gives us the joy of creative accomplishment. My favorite black dress, which still fits me well, and can be washed in the machine, was getting too shabby to wear for best, so, to brighten it up for wearing at home, | made several dickeys. Some of them were triangular in shape and made with attached collars. Others were cut to fit a V neckline. Snaps were sewed on the dress, and in corresponding positions on the dickeys, so that they could be attached and removed quickly, and still be held neatly in place. If a dress is of solid color, attractive dickeys could be cut from material of a contrasting color, from prints (including Paisley), polka dots, plaids, or even knitted material, such as a turtleneck sweater, if it is made of cotton or rayon material. Often we have a favorite blouse, only partly worn, and by cutting out the sleeves, the blouse can be used as a dickey, giving a fresh, clean touch to a _ dark-colored dress. Dickies can be worn, also, with two-piece suits, with cardigan sweaters, or with plain shift dresses. I Love Patches Joan N. Ahlman @ Whenever I see a regular little fellow with large loving patches on the knees of his jeans, a warm feeling comes over me toward him and his mother. These patches say that he is a completely normal, lively, active youngster—we wouldn't want children any other way—and that his mother cares about the clothes he wears. In the Patch Parade, mothers can be classified in one of three categories: A. The Hasty-Waster, who can't be bothered with patching when even a small hole appears, discards the article which might still have months of wear if only it were patched, and buys a new garment. Her children may always look as if they just stepped out of a bandbox, but what a waste! B. The Holey-er-than-thou-er, who constantly detects holes and worn spots, won't take that step to stitch, but endlessly lets her children go mendlessly about with that more-than-casual look. No doubt about it, she saves money, but what good is frugality without the right kind of pride? C. The Stitch-in-Timer, who, as she sews, reaps the satisfaction that her children look neat and well-cared for, even though there may be a patch here or a mend there. She exhibits pride, and by her thrift, she has saved pennies that soon add up to dollars, which can be put aside for education, missions, etc. How wonderful it would be if every mother could be in this "C"' class. Unlike the "Wonderful One Hoss Shay," clothes do have points of strain that become worn, even though the rest of the garment is still in good condition, so it is wisdom to patch these spots. It may seem to some that patching is a colorless, uncreative task, but by classifying herself as a "fabric physician," a homemaker can have the satisfaction of adding days, weeks, or months to the life of an ill piece of clothing. As I continue to ponder over patches, I believe if more women became patch-conscious, there would be a definite lift in the quality of home and community life. If a woman is conscientious about patching toggery, this habit will soon extend to mending linens, furniture, meals, and all things about the home, leading to more frugal living. I also love the 'patch system" our Heavenly Father has provided for us. Our lives, compared to a garment, cannot be like the clothing that the wasteful homemaker casts aside when a small hole appears. We have only one mortal life to live, and free agency enables us to choose whether or not we wear a life that is torn and unmended, or accept the philosophy of patching to renew our lives. Through the atonement of Jesus Christ, we may patch up what may have once been a spiritually tattered life, by sincere repentance. Like the expert invisible weaver who can make a torn garment look new again, we, through repentance, can do the same for our lives, because the Lord has said, ''Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more' (D&C 58:42). I hope you, too, will be able to join me in saying "I Love Patches." 293 Paintings Make Every Day Beautiful Jennette S. Hadley, Boise, Idaho, began painting after six of her eight children had married and left the home. In her girlhood she had studied art at Ricks College, and when, in her later years, she found leisure time, she remembered with pleasure the hours spent in the study of art. She then enrolled in an instruction class and ''brushed up'' on her early studies. Soon, with oil paints and canvas, she began to create colorful scenes—landscapes of her beloved mountains and valleys. Some of her paintings have won prizes at county fairs, and some of them are hung in the Relief Society room of the Letha Ward chapel in Weiser Stake. In addition to scenics, Mrs. Hadley paints animals and still life, and has painted a few portraits. She is generous in sharing her hobby with others, and has encouraged many women to take up painting as a hobby. Mrs. Hadley's Relief Society activities have included service as a counselor in Weiser Stake and in the Letha Ward. She has been a visiting teacher continuously since her marriage. Recently, she moved to Boise, where she makes her home with her husband and two youngest children. 294 , Sylvia Probst Young @ Spring was usually late in coming to our valley, but, finally, when the last fringes of snow were gone and a warm wind stirred the leafing willows, we knew that winter was done and the wonderful waking season had returned. On such a sun-bright day, when Saturday's chores were finished, we would trip off to the low hill next to our meadow, and there, the wild daffodils—a host of them—with delicate, yellow heads swaying gently, stood waiting to greet us. It was a moment of breathtaking ecstasy, standing on the brow of the hill, overlooking a sea of flower golden loveliness. How eagerly we picked our aprons full of the bright blossoms to bring back to our mothers. The daffodils were a symbol of earth's beauty, of the beauty of all returning things—an April brook, a flowering dogwood, a winging blackbird. Remembering that childhood experience, | have tried to be aware of beauty everywhere, not only in the wonders of nature, but in the lives of people | meet everyday. | see the dedication of a young doctor who spends hours of his time, without monetary compensation, bringing comfort and happiness to the old, forgotten people in a nearby institution; the patience of a gentle teacher working with handicapped children; the selflessness of a widowed mother who works extra hours so that her children may gain an education. And | see ail the courageous ones who face the storms of adversity and loneliness and go uncomplainingly forward. The old man who brings eggs to me counts them with gnarled, rough hands, but his are the hands of an honest, good man, and in them | see the beauty of strength. Through the deep, dark eyes of a teenage girl—eyes bright as Stars, lighted with anticipation—I see the world in rainbow colors. Then there are times, in the quietness of a chapel, when | have listened to the voice of an aged prophet, and his gentle face, his words of wisdom lift my spirit. He is a portrait of peace, and his shining countenance reflects a life of devotion to a cause greater than himself. Looking to him | find a Spiritual beauty that fills my soul. So all around me, everywhere, | can find beauty if | am aware of it—by dawn and starlight, with each day, each changing season. And for all who are thus aware, life cannot be made commonplace, for they will walk with joy and sing on a hill of daffodils. 295 Sapiro Clara Horne Park @ | love poetry—for the feeling of bigness in the world that it reveals, showing the smallness of my conception, visible to me as | read. | love it for the imagination it stirs within me, for the remembrance of similar situation and gratification | remember from my youth. Past experiences | see with enlarged vision—the impression of my first view of ocean waves dashing, tumbling rhythmically obedient to the Creator's order —thus far shalt thou go and no farther until the word be given. | love every poet who inspires the feeling of greatness within me— who fires my determination to excel in my world in spite of my small desires for limited usefulness. | love the rhythm of words, the music in them which makes me catch my breath from their lovely intonations—the flash of genius | perceive in the artist's hand; the flow of another's words expressing sympathy and love of fellow men. | am a better person for having been able to share another's thought, to catch his heartbeat in his creation, and still my own heart to understanding and sympathy. This inspiration | cannot afford to miss. Ll A em a >. -. _ ¢- - fu *" > 2 we | love poetry for the lift it gives me toward the infinite. The ties it stirs in my imagination—the knowledge it gives me that, proper determination and personal effort | may, one day, see the ¢ of heaven. | love poetry as | love to view the greatness in nature—the vast of mountains, the freedom of a waterfall that plays in the sunlight throws its millions of bubbles into the air where the rainbow ca reach. The rhythm, the music, the part of heaven spared to us upon which we feed our hungry imagination and grow in grace and beauty lifts us as with wings to a celestial world of spiritual humility and gratitude. | love poetry! To me it is life. - HOME ACADEMY @ School is out and the children What are you are relieved and delighted. Or are they? Greg, who had just been ki promoted to the Fourth Grade, soins to teach 4 couldn't find anything to do,? Leora Larsen Gay, a pretty teenager, was colMother lapsed on a chair in the kitchen with her hand in the cookie jar. Where were their usually alert minds? I could hear other children in the neighborhood. They were running and shouting outside. But my little boy had asthma, and my quiet teenager had a heart block that limited her activity. I could not watch them become unhappy. "How would you like a school of your own?" I asked. "First, we will need a janitor to vacuum the carpet and set out chairs." "T will!" said Greg. '"'We should have music and a thought to start with." Gay came from the kitchen. "We had Seminary first, and I really liked it last year." "Why don't you be the teacher?" I asked. "T will teach math," Greg offered. I smiled, for this was his difficult subject. "Could I be the school cook, mother, and fix anything I want?" Gay asked. "And don't forget recess!'"' Greg shouted. 297 APRIL 1966 ''We can take turns being the teacher," Gay said. '"What are you going to teach, Mother?" That was how it happened, one of our happiest summers. We called it Sunrise School, and it started soon after Father left for work. Besides Gay teaching Seminary, which was complete with prelude piano music, singing, prayer, and Biblical stories, she also gave us simple lessons in French. She invented a card game called "French Fish," and we could use only French words. Greg worked each afternoon preparing "complicated"? Math problems for the next morning, and a close friend of his came over once a week to be the spelling teacher. Her name was Pat, and she was most interesting. She searched her geography book for words like Isthmus of Panama, tributary, irrigate, and others. It was a challenge. I made mistakes along with the rest. And I was doing my best! I was in charge of the recess bell and extra-curricular recreation. We went by train to visit my sister in California and held one unforgettable sunrise class with their family. When we returned home we wrote about our trip. This year Gay will be going to summer school and college. Greg and I will miss her, but we plan to continue our lessons and she will share her experiences with us. Teachers and friends agree my children are "gifted." I am not sure about that, but I do wonder about other mothers. What are you teaching? MORNING GLORY MORNING Linda J. Houston The morning-glory morning Of celestial blue Came joyfully with Butterflies and warmth. Birds praised her; Roses opened their arms. She caressed two children at play, Filling their sand pails with gold dust Almost as bright as their innocent eyes. The slender cornstalks Straightened their shoulders, The brook sighed blissfully; And the hearts of those who felt Her splendor Were airy and light that day. 298 No Violins Lael J. Littke R Mother was lying pale and quiet on the high hospital bed when Dad and I entered the room. It frightened me to see her that way, so to hide my emotions I loped to her side greeting her with the raucous "Hiya" I use for my thirteen-year-old girl friends. She smiled at me and asked how I was and how the other children were. Fine, I assured her, except for Tootie's chicken pox, which Mrs. Donegan next door claimed looked more like smallpox to her, and Tom's mashed finger which was the only thing that got hurt when the tractor ran away with him. Fine, I told her again, except that things just didn't go right and the house was empty without her, and I was a miserable substitute for her, and we missed her desperately, and, as a matter of fact, everything was just terrible. I broke down and cried on her crisp white sheet. She smoothed my hair and told me to sit down in the chair nearby. My father approached the bed then, and through my sniffles and sobs I watched with interest. In the stories I had read, a husband visiting his wife in the hospital, always rushed to her bedside and buried his face in her neck, all the while murmuring things like, "My darling, I can't stand to see you this way." My father was big and never said much, but in the stories it was always the strong, silent ones who were the most romantic. At home Dad was undemonstrative, but this was a different situation, wasn't it? 299 APRIL 1966 Slowly Dad approached the bed. He stood there a moment, fiddling with the glass tube in the water container on the small table. Then he looked straight at mother. He cleared his throat. "The jersey had her calf last night," he said. He shifted his weight. "Got nearly 300 eggs from the old hens." I could scarcely believe my ears. This is marriage? I thought. For this someday I will get married so that my husband can come to my hospital bedside and tell me some cow has had a calf? A wave of pity washed over me, pity for my mother tied all these years to a man whose main interests were in how many eggs the hens had laid. I stood up and opened my mouth to tell my mother something— anything—which would make her understand that Dad missed her, too. Before I could blurt out anything, my glance snagged on Dad's face. There were tears in his eyes. He was looking down at Mother. A peek at my mother's face told me she understood perfectly what he was trying to convey to her. She smiled up at him and he touched her cheek with his rough, horny, farmer's hand. I didn't see deep into their souls with a sudden flash of perception as the people did in the magazine stories, but I saw enough to make me begin to understand a little about a different kind of love. There were no violins sobbing out romantic melodies, but somewhere, beyond my hearing, there were angels singing of a plain and humble love which was deep enough, big enough, strong enough, to last throughout eternity. THANK YOU, VISITING TEACHERS Carolle Denton Time was long and seeming dark... A knock came to my door, Two sisters brought a light within | had not seen before. Warmth of sun on shadowed clay Softened and formed anew The latent powers of hope and love, And let the daylight through. The Lord who saw this hardened clay Knew well the urgent cry To bring my life out of the shade, And now, how bright the sky! 300 4 = EAS Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter Four Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes the need for spirituality 'and religious training for the _ childrens Rex agrees to @ trial period of one year for the family to participate in Church activities, and Jennie feels that they are making progress. Shi 7 y,! @ On the next Wednesday Jennie ' fasted. Not for the Primary class, alone, but for the whole project. ' Not having fasted since she was a child, there were times during the day when she was sure she ' would faint. She made a cake, before lunch, covered it lavishly ' with chocolate frosting and nuts. ' She refrained from absently pol- ' ishing off the frosting spoon. She ' took the cake to Primary. The boys, tripping and gouging | each other, fell silent when they: saw the cake pan. When marching out time came, they followed her with the alacrity of puppies. Jennie put the cake in the _ place of honor on the small table. "When do we get it?" "Cut it now!" They swarmed out of their places and_ surrounded the table, their greedy fingers reaching out for a surreptitious swipe. Jennie said softly, 'This cake, like the blessings of the Lord, is for the good ones." "You mean we gotta wait till after the lesson!"' Famished herself, Jennie could well appreciate the howl of protest. She ignored it and put out her flannel' board and figures. She started with the roll call. "Answer only to your name," she said firmly. She gave the lesson with all the vigor she could summon in her present weakness. Eyeing the cake and the boys, she knew to the last pang, the longing of each young stomach. The long silence was awesome. When she dropped Moses from the flannel board, young Billy leaped to pick the cardboard figure from the floor. "Thank you," she said. "VYou're welcome," he _ said gravely. No one laughed. Not even when he brought the kitten 301 APRIL 1966 out from its hiding place in his shirt. No one crowded around him. Billy put the kitten back. Jennie brought the class to an end promptly, after which she cut the cake and passed around the rich, crumbly slices. She did not take one herself, wanting a more fitting end to her fasting. But she had won, even though after the cake was demolished, they began their jostling and boxing. Something was broken. Probably the feeling they had had that no one nor anything could subdue them. Soon after dismissal, red-haired Billy came slowly back into the room, cradling the kitten. ''Sister Starr." "Yes, Billy?' She gathered up her visual aids. He dropped the kitten on the table. "For you on account of you're a real good teacher." Jennie looked down on the mewing white fluff. She was deeply touched. "Thank you, Billy. I will take good care of him." Even later, when she learned that his mother had commanded him to dispose of the kitten, she treasured the offering. Rex came home early to help and was astonished by her radiance. "But how?" She told him about the cake. Rex, probing the reason for a recalcitrant vacuum, put down the screwdriver and shouted with laughter. '""Somehow," he said, '"'I don't think it's quite according to Hoyle." He looked at her with respect. "What made you think efit?" She said comfortably, "I remembered what my father said 302 about how you can't pour from an unfilled pitcher. I poured." '"'What was the lesson about?" "The stranger within our gates you know... Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares...."" She said reluctantly, "I sort of threw that in as a bonus, on account of they are being beastly to a new boy." Rex plugged the vacuum in and it responded with a reassuring hum. He wound up the cord. "Speaking of strangers... Guess whom I saw on Main Street today?"' "Yul Brynner?" "No... Jody Anderson. I guess people call him Joe now... But it's hard to get out of the habit." Jennie said absently. "Still on the piano?" Rex, shrugged. "I guess so. He said he was doing a bit of composing." "How did he look?" "The same as always... Only more lost. He's been living back east... Teaching." Jennie had a quick vision of the tall, homely, stooped figure. "Even in high school he was well different.." '"'He was a kook then and he's a kook now. This is his first trip back home in five years." "Married?" Rex said _pityingly, would marry him?" Jennie was silent. "Why do they come back?" Rex demanded. "I'll bet there is no other town in the country where so many return. What is it they come for?" Jennie had no words to tell him. She felt it might be the "Who thing that urged her to go down to the temple grounds in the morning. It was a leaning down through years to a beginning. It was a search for the roots and the reasons. She had meant to go very early, but there were so many telephone calls. Lorna called and was impatient. "What cave are you living in, darling? And how do you like the hermit's life?" Jennie laughed and took the curlers out of her hair. She had had to do her own hair for the past two weeks. Just no time to spare for a hairdresser. "Guess who is in town?" "Jody Anderson." "My dear, have you seen him? You should! Positively scarecrow.. But really!" Lorna bethought herself of the reason for her call. "It's the luncheon for Mrs. Martin Elliott. You'll come of course?' "When is it?" "Next Wednesday." "Sorry. I'm up to my ears in Church work." "Oh," Lorna hesitated. "Are you sure? I mean... They can always get teachers." Jennie thought of Sister Phillips. "No they can't. I'm the teacher." "Well all right but come up for air once in a while. We miss you." Jennie dressed quickly before the telephone could ring again. She wore her fur hat and the tweed great coat and the furlined gloves. She hurried the car down the hill and finally turned the heater on. "Ah." She relaxed in the snowy morning. Johnny and Lora were being left with a WHEAT FOR THE WISE new sitter, a mature and intelligent woman. There was nothing between herself and the free hours ahead. Even though the day was brisk, there were many visitors to the temple grounds. Jennie joined them, absently listening to the young guide, but inside herself the questions surged. What did she believe? How much did she believe? She listened to the guide tell the story of the seagulls' flight over the valley and the destruction of the cricket plague. What had they thought, sweating through their fields, fighting the winged devourers? Had they had the sure knowledge that help would come from somewhere? She had launched herself on this year's quest, blindly believing that if she did her part, all else would fall into place. So had the pioneers launched themselves into the valley, fallen from a cliff, grasping to the shrub of their faith, they had held on. Let me be like them, she prayed. Let me just hold on. SHE went into the Tabernacle to listen to the organ recital. "Jesu, Joy of Our Desiring," she listened to the great notes soaring against the domed ceiling. She saw Jesus in the wheat fields, rubbing the grains in his fingers. Was she, Jennie Starr, wheat or tares? Who knew within himself which he was in the last analysis? If a man did not know himself how could he know his neighbor? She looked stealthily at her own neighbor, sitting so absorbed in the music! It was a man. His eyes were closed. He seemed, by his expression, to be drawing the music in through his pores. 303 APRIL 1966 Jody Anderson. As if she had said his name aloud, the man opened his eyes and looked at her. It was a strange look. It recognized but did not reach. It was glad to see her, but it asked nothing from her. Jennie felt a tumult of pain. What had the man suffered to force him to such self-abnegation? What had they done to him, to make him unwilling or unable to be glad at sight of an old schoolmate? "Jody Anderson! Remember me? I was-: Jennie Bryson." Her whisper was too loud. People on the benches before them, turned warningly. "f remember you very well," said Jody. "It hasn't been that long. And you _haven't changed." She moved closer to him and held out her hand. He shook it guardedly. When the recital was over, they fell into step together. They walked down the paths to the monuments of the Prophet Joseph and his brother. "Rex said he saw you yesterday." Jody nodded. "He is _ very happy. It is easy to see that. You have four children." "Would you like to see them?" Jennie asked impulsively. "Of course." She hesitated... "But your family has prior claim... How long will you be here?" "Y'm going back tomorrow." "Would you be free tonight?" His face made her think of winter. It was a still face as if it had long ago ceased nonsense of spring and laughter, summer and love. But he's only Rex's age, 304 Jennie thought. She found herself urging him. "'Please come. We have a new Steinway... And=it— has never really known music.... Come and make it glad with your playing." He said angrily, "I discovered I was no pianist. A long time ago." "But you are. I remem-. Ber." "But I was not enough of what I was..." he explained. "I was not enough of greatness."' She was silent before his outburst. She felt his own pain. Once she had dreamed of greatness wanted it feeling something inside her pressing the wish. But she had not found a talent in her worthy of the struggle. She said, "If there's anyone from school you'd like to see, perhaps I could get them to come." "There's no one," he said definitely. "No one at all." Jennie closed her eyes against his voice and the barren vision of his homecoming. "Please come." "All right," he said, wearily, "T'll come." it was one of those heavenly evenings when the children were quiet and remarkably well-behaved, when Rex was at his most charming, when the dinner could have been served by a French chef. When the children were excused, the three of them sat before the fire in the living room. Jody gave them small grudging pictures of his life. "They stopped satisfying me," he said, ''the masters. I could only have peace by trying to bring out of myself, what they had brought out of themselves." The great names slipped reverently from his lips, Beethoven, Brahms, Sibelius. "Did you ever stop to think what it must have been like to have a 'Misa Solemnis' roaring inside you?" Jennie marveled. She felt herself stretched in her mind by his comments on their lives and despairs. "Why did you stop teaching?" Rex wanted to know. 'How did you live?" "Tt became more and more of my life... The music inside me. I never knew when it would come tome the phrase... The melody the design, and the impulse. 'To try to teach with an oratorio blazing inside one is to my mind the ultimate of tortures. I did not know what I had just said... I would look up and my class would be convulsed with laughter. I never knew whether I had said something out of turn, or was beating the measures." "Did you ever publish anything?" Rex asked. Jennie stole a quick look at her husband. Rex was struggling to understand a life so barren of results, so motivated from within, rather than by the pressures from without oneself. Jody Anderson shrugged. "I've published... But not to loud successes. In fact, I should say the musical world has been remarkably calm about my efforts." Rex and Jennie exchanged glances. He was one of the touched, was Joseph Anderson. Jennie shivered, seeing him, in her mind's eye, going down through the years into a driedup shell of never-to-be-realized dreams. He played for them before he left. The music filled the house. They did not understand the music, though they tried. It was a new kind of music, avaunt garde, way out, different, but it haunted Jennie long after the notes had fallen into silence. When he stood at the door to go, he smiled at them. It was a brief smile. "This was the reason I came," he said, and added, "IJ was hungry and ye fedme I was naked and ye clothed me "For a hungry man," said Jennie, "you certainly didn't eat very much."' He paused a moment and then in a burst of words, "Tonight... In Philadelphia, they are having the opening of our play. It's a light play.... 'Dust on the Moon.' But I wrote the music and the words, and I like them very much." He nodded curtly and went away. They watched him walk down the street. Snow had begun to fall, and it circled his tall, ungainly figure. Jennie and Rex, uncertain and depressed, sat by the dying embers and discussed him. 'He should throw it out," said Rex harshly, "cut it off from himself. Sell insurance... Or teach. Anything." Jennie thought of Jody Anderson, sitting in his class, tormented by the wild measures of his songs. "Why?" she demanded. 'Does 305 APRIL 1966 everyone have to have split-level houses and a color television?" "No," said Rex. "But the world is too full of people who will not conform."' JENNIE kicked off her. Shoes and stretched out her toes to the fire. "But there is a difference... We would have been a _ poorer world without Handel, or Van Gogh or Emily Dickinson." "But for every Van Gogh," Rex observed, "there is an army of would-be's." | "For every President of the United States,' said Jennie slowly, "'there is an army of would-be's."' She sat up. "Does a man choose to be a maker of music, or is he a maker of music?" Rex rose and pulled her to her feet. ""For such a small woman, you ask awfully big questions." But Rex was the one who came running upstairs in the morning, bearing the newspaper that told about "Native Son,' Joseph Anderson's, smash hit play in Philadelphia. Lorna called. ''Honestly, if you aren't shot with luck! I just met Rex and he told me about last night." She sighed. "Think of sitting there with one of the top celebrities. Just sitting there and having him play his own compositions... What was it like?" Jennie did not say, "It was heartbreaking." She did not say, "T learned the splendor of the undefeated." She said, "He is a gentle person and very kind." Joseph Anderson sent them a note. "... It is amusing' and interesting to be suddenly accepted. I shall remember always, our meeting, and the evening at your house. [t is to the thought of 306 you and Rex and others like you that I cling, for I rather fear that I am one of those who will never be able to separate himself from the place of his beginning." Sabra had brought the mail to her and now waited, watching her mother's face. '"Was it a good letter? Your face is undecided." Jennie read the note to her. Sabra leaned on her elbows and looked out the window to the orchard, now a garden of snow. "He was nice," she said. "I stayed awake and listened to him play."' She practiced standing on her toes. "Did you know that I am going to be like him when I grow up?" Jennie looked up quickly. "Ah, come now how can you say a thing like that?" Sabra nodded. "I dreamed about it. I was old, about your age, Mother. I had a pocketful of songs. The birds came and took all the songs out of my pocket. And the people came and took the songs out of my hands... But it was always the songs they wanted... But they never wanted me at all." Jennie went to her daughter and hugged her fiercely. "No it was only a dream. It was just one of those things... Forget it." Sabra looked up in surprise. "But you don't understand, Mother! It was so beautiful the way the notes came together inside me.... It was such a beautiful thing." Jennie held Sabra's head against her breast. The protest rose like a cry within her no no don't let it happen to her. Don't let her be different and strange and rejected... No. (To be continued) A Proper Perspective Through The Relief Society Magazine Arlene Bascom It was one of those bleak, despairing kind of days. Everything had gone wrong. I was disappointed in myself and in my own feeling of inadequacy. I knelt and prayed for strength to meet the burdens of the day. I rose from my knees comforted, and with renewed determination to meet the problems, not as burdens but as challenges. Then the mail arrived, and with it The Relief Society Magazine. I knew it had come at a perfect time. I had found inspiration in its pages many times before. I began to read eagerly, and the inspiration and guidance I needed were there in abundance. One sentence from a soul-revealing story leaped out at me: "Everyone has problems, at any age, but there are compensations and blessings, if you just take time to think of them." Of course! There are compensations and blessings, I echoed joyously, and I will take the time to remember them. I said a silent prayer of gratefulness for the timely arrival of this help in regaining a proper perspective. My world was right again. I was sure I could meet the challenges of each new day more confidently. After all, didn't I have the Lord on my side, and the blessings of the Relief Society Magazine in my home? I am convinced that there is no other organization in the world that can compare with the Relief Society, and no other magazine in the world as valuable as The Relief Society Magazine. Full Circle Betty G. Spencer She slept—held gently in the protective circle of my arm. As I gazed lovingly upon the beauty of spirit and countenance of my year-old daughter, | I wished that it might always be thus—my arms a shield against the uncertainties of life. But this cannot be. Soon, my arms must yield her to the challenge of life. There is respite, however; these next few precious years are mine—to teach, to guide, to train. May I use them well. Let me teach wisely, that she may be prepared to meet the future bravely, and alone—my arms reluctantly withdrawn. But, if I have taught the lessons wisely and she has learned them well, she will yet be shielded—with truth, and strength, and right. The circle of my arms will be replaced with a stronger, surer one, a circle of protective principles. 307 — | Pas FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Long Beach Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Concert December 18, 1965 Marian Bennett, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "On December 18, 1965, the Long Beach Stake Relief Society proudly presented in concert the Singing Mothers. The chorus, under the direction of Faye Kerner, with Theodora Johnson at the piano, practiced many weeks and hours for this concert. Among the numbers presented were: 'Morning,' 'O Winds, Blow Ye Softly,' 'Every Flower,' 'Praise Ye the Father,' 'Hear My Prayer, q 'Panis Angelicus (O Bread of Life),' 'O Holy Night,' 'My Heart Is a Silent Violin,' and 'Let Not Your Song End.' '"'Many who attended the concert remarked how professionally the chorus sang. We feel it was a very outstanding event. This was a fund-raising event, and all stake board members supported it wholeheartedly." Boston Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Standing at the right in the back row: Helen B. Low, President, Boston Stake Relief Society; at Sister Low's right: Julienne A. Thomson, Second Counselor. At the right in the second row: stake chorister Nora B. Cox; fourth from the right on the second row: Charlene Strong, board member; eighth from the right: Esther Poulsen, board member.. Vicky Taylor, chorister, Billerica Ward, is seen conducting the chorus; the acting organist is Marta Tillis. Sister Low reports: "An excellent quality of tone and harmony gained by perseverance, as well as a number of sweet spirits, combine to make the Singing Mothers chorus a worthwhile activity. So believe the women of Boston Stake. This theory was tested when we participated with several other stakes singing at the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair. Many, many hours of hard work and self-sacrifice on the part of the sisters and their families produced a chorus we hardly believed possible. To pay for the trip from Boston to New York, this chorus presented a very successful concert for friends and families of the participants. Our sisters grew to be very close, and their willingness to participate, we hope, will last for many years to come. '"'Now we take part in almost every stake conference. We are continuing our practices on a ward and stake level, hoping to make each successive performance outshine the last." The Boston Stake Singing Mothers presented music for stake conference January 30, 1966. The picture was taken previously. 308 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. APRIL 1966 Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Douglas Ward Relief Society Holds Bazaar ''Treasures for Everyone"' November 19, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Blanche Gadd, Secretary-Treasurer; Arlean "Olson, President; Mildred Kinnersley, Work Counselor; Rosetta Palmer, Education Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Jerri Seiler, commentator for the fashion show; Dawn Reeve, committee chairman; committee members: Kathy Young; Gwen Woolsey; Lucile Gates; Beth Sorenson, work meeting leader. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A most successful bazaar was held, featuring 'Relief Society Treasures' made by the sisters during the year. Bazaar items were displayed in beautifully decorated antique trunks. Bakery goods from "Treasured Recipes' were sold. A "Treasure Cove' interested the children. To stimulate interest in the bazaar, at the beginning of the year, each sister in Douglas Ward, was asked to donate an apron. After the work meeting a month before the bazaar, an 'Apron Fashion Show' was the feature of the day. It was exciting to see the 110 aprons donated by the sisters modeled. Recognition was given to the sisters donating the prettiest, the most practical, and the most unusual aprons. After seeing the aprons modeled, everyone was anxious to go to the bazaar early in order to buy her favorite apron. We feel that the fashion show created such an interest in the bazaar, in addition to the monetary help, that we intend to repeat it another year. We feel that the fashion show was a contributing factor to the increase in membership and attendance in Douglas Ward." North Central States Mission Relief Society Board Conducts Fifth Annual Relief Society Convention Fargo, North Dakota, August 1, 1965 Seated, front row, left to right: Doris Youngs, First Counselor; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Dola Hofeling. Standing, left to right: Margaret Ann Abbott, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Olfa Hansen, visiting teacher message leader. Inset: Doris A. Allphin, Supervisor, North Central States Mission Relief Society. Sister Ostvig reports: '"'The theme of the convention was 'Perfecting of the Saints Through Application of Gospel Principles.' Special participating guests included: Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and Sister Brockbank; Relief Society board members from eight districts of the North Central States Mission; and executive officers and class leaders, representing forty-five Relief Society organizations from Minnesota, South Dakota, North Dakota, part of Wisconsin; and Manitoba, Ontario, and the Lakehead area of Canada. "Combined and departmental meetings were held, with special original skits. Visual aids were featured, and district displays, showing the accomplishments of the work meeting departments. These were unique, and included pictures of the General Presidency of Relief Society standing under the clock which was donated for the Relief Society Building by the North Central States Mission Relief Society. This clock was installed over the elevator on the main floor of the building. "The combined Singing Mothers chorus of the mission sang at two sessions of the convention. Special recognition was given to the winners in the mission: sponsored short story and poem contests." 310 es tee anata Sg ig RD RR SB age * a S08 2 we Ye wre oA: ST ew AS Oe Se g Sharon Stake (Utah) Magazine Representatives Who Achieved a 100 Per Cent — Subscription Record for Every Ward in the Stake January 24, 1966 APRIL 1966 Seated, front row, left to right, Magazine representatives of Sharon Stake: Loreen H. Bliss, Orem Thirteenth Ward; Alieda Hiener, Orem Twelfth Ward: Sylvia Sabin, Orem Eleventh Ward; Meredith Searle, Orem Nineteenth Ward Dora Hartley, Provo Twentieth Ward; Lysle Williams, Orem Sixteenth Ward; Naomi S. Biggs, Orem Twenty-third Ward. Back row, standing, left to right, fourth from the left: Arvilla J. Bradshaw, stake Magazine representative; fifth from the left, Eris M. Black, Preside Sharon Stake Relief Society. Sister Black reports: "The picture was taken at our stake Relief Societ leadership meeting, in recognition of the fact that each of our ward Magazi representatives achieved 100 per cent, or over, of her Magazine subscripti quota for the year 1965. It has been many years since this goal has been reached in our stake. Not only does this achievement reflect the devoted, efficient effort of each ward representative, but it shows the dramatic results — of increased presidential support of the Magazine representatives in each _ ward. Support has also been extended to the representatives through our sta leadership meetings by calling attention to, and sometimes reading, a speci article from the Magazine in the opening exercises, and by charting the progr of each ward representative in the presidencies department each month duri the past year." Florida Stake Visiting Teacher Convention November 14, 1965 Ruth F. Boone, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, reports: " visiting teacher convention was held in connection with Relief Society leader ship meeting. Ninety-five women were honored and presented with certifica' for having accomplished 100 per cent visiting teaching for a year (Septem 1964 to September 1965). A bound volume of The Relief Society Magazi was presented to Palatka Ward for 100 per cent visiting teaching duri the year. "An inspirational program was presented, and our Stake President Hen V. Jenkins was the principal speaker. A lovely reception was held in t cultural hall. One teacher, Martha Clark, from Waycross Ward, Georgia, h a record of fourteen years without missing a month. Our visiting teach range in age from nineteen to ninety-three. Sister Annie Anell, Jacksonville Third Ward, was ninety-three on Valentine's Day. She drives her own car _ to do her visiting teaching." Anaheim Stake (California) Special Relief Society Meeting November 21, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Dr. Harvey Fletcher; Lorena C. Fletcher; Max V. Eliason, President, Anaheim Stake; Glenna C. Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society; Kathern H. Marks, First Counselor; Colleen D. Baxter, Second Counselor. Second row, seated, second from the right (in black dress), chorister Marybeth Done; at right: organist Melba Longhurst. Sister Woolf reports: "In an effort to interest more women in Relief Society, a special meeting was held on Sunday, November 21, 1965. All the sisters and their husbands in Anaheim Stake. Were invited. We were blessed to have Sister Lorena C. Fletcher (American Mother of the Year), and her husband Dr. Harvey Fletcher, as guest speakers, along with our Stake President Max V. Eliason. Each woman was honored as American mother of her home. A tableau, depicting various phases of Relief Society, was presented on film and by characterization. The stake Singing Mothers presented two | beautiful numbers Five hundred were in attendance." 312 APRIL 1966 a * 4 "wegnR sier @ * ~~ West Sharon Stake (Utah), Provo Seventeenth Ward Relief Society ''Carousel'"' November 12, 1965 Montez B. Harwood, President, West Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Provo Seventeenth Ward Relief Society held a most successful bazaar on November 12, 1965. The theme for the evening was 'Relief Society Carousel,' and the hall was gay with candy canes and carousels. There were seven different areas: Christmas shop, handicrafts, sewing, baked goods, toys, a fish pond, and the dinner. Each area around the hall was decorated individually as a part of the central theme. The cost of the bazaar, including the ham dinner, was $392. There were 350 persons served during the evening, and the net profit of the bazaar was $1,024.75. The bazaar was presented under the direction of President Arleen T. Johnson, her Counselors Carole Olsen and Barbara Wardle, and work meeting leader Donna Ericson. The dinner committee consisted of Krilla Olsen, Cleone Judkins, Leora Giles, and Bonnie Smith. Committee chairmen were: Bernice Kirkwood, Donna Ericson, Marilyn Dunn, Arleen Johnson, Barbara Wardle, Ruth Adams, Krilla Olsen, and Doris Jensen. "The picture shows a circular arrangement of several varieties of cookies, with some of the beautifully decorated cakes in the background at the left." 314 77 Lesson Department (ae x wy oe' " WORK MEETING Y Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Jenniev J. Poulson Chairman, Housing and Home Management Department Brigham Young University WISE BUYMANSHIP Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1966 Southern Hemisphere: December 1966 Objective: To show that better buymanship is a skill to be developed. How important to the well-being of the family is the woman's role in wise buying? Discuss. A goal of accumulating money just for itself brings little satisfaction. The value of money is realized in the happiness and satisfaction obtained through the wise spending of it. This is the happiness realized through spending money wisely for such things as wholesome, nutritious food, for clothes that provide warmth, protection, and beauty for the body, for shelter and surroundings for the family that aid in happy relationships and contribute to the development of family members, for an education for the children, and for money spent Mm giving service to our Father in heaven. WISE BUYING A concern of most families is to have enough money to take care of their needs. Families look forward to earning more money or increasing their incomes, but many families would benefit a great deal from increased skill in spending the money they have. Many hours may be spent in learning how to earn money, but how many hours are spent in learning to spend money wisely? Better buying practices can stretch each family's limited number of dollars, and can help it to get its money's worth whether buying necessities, comforts, or luxuries. A homemaker who can stretch $1 to secure $1.15 worth of merchandise, or 85 cents to secure $1 worth, is 315 APRIL 1966 adding to the real income of the family. This explains why it is possible that of two families with identical incomes, one family may have much more to show for the expenditure of its money. One of the secrets is wise buying. IS PRICE ALWAYS A GUIDE TO QUALITY? A wise buyer hunts for the greatest quantity and best quality for the price she pays. Many buyers are guided by the philosophy that "you pay for what you get," and use price and brand as a guide to quality. Interesting and _ thought-provoking surveys have been made by important manufacturers to ascertain the relative appeal to shoppers of goods marked with well-known brand names, and goods made by other companies. The results of one such survey indicated that, although the brand name goods were considerably higher in price, the rate of selling was almost four times as great as that of the unbranded goods. Many trade journals are full of reports of increased sales after prices have been raised. In one case, sales of an item on which a higher price was marked, increased thirty per cent. There is no dependable relationship between quality and price. The homemaker who buys, thinking she gets higher quality for a higher price, may be spending more money than is needed. Prices asked for identical branded products vary. WHAT! S THE VALUE OF COMPARATIVE SHOPPING? A wise buyer does comparative shopping. She may do this by 316 reading advertisements and comparing the prices for identical items; or she may do comparative shopping by comparing prices and quality in different catalogs. She shops around at more than one store, comparing quality and price. Many homemakers have become accustomed to buying at one store, and do not compare prices before buying. One study led to the conclusion that sixty per cent of the buyers choose their stores on the basis of convenience, not price. One must shop in different stores in an area, because no one store is consistently the lowest in price. This rule applies to the different kinds of things bought, and to the different kinds of stores, including discount houses. CASE STUDY Mrs. A is a "bargain shopper," cannot resist a sale, and buys sale merchandise whether products are used by family or not. She never reads the labels on packages to determine weight and content, buys on impulse, buys because she thinks she is making a big saving for the family budget, yet never seems to have on hand just what is needed. Mrs. B never reads sale advertisements, goes only to one market and buys as the need arises regardless of the cost, and usually has a hard time in stretching her money to meet her family's needs. Mrs. C is aware of what is needed and what is used by her family, checks advertised specials, and compares prices of products used by her family. She plans menus ahead, so makes fewer shopping trips, anticipates needs of family and takes advantage of special savings, checks labels of competitive products, so is able to recognize a saving, knows what she is buying and, with careful planning and wise buying, her budget stretches. Mrs. D reads advertisements, checks bargains, and goes to each store to buy them, and spends four hours and a half-tank of gasoline in '"hunting' sale merchandise. Who is the wisest? Discuss and evaluate each of the four procedures. SUMMARY It is indeed easy to spend money, but it takes time and effort to spend it wisely, Few families have so much money that they can afford not to spend it wisely. By spending thought and time in buying, they may add to the goods and services LESSON DEPARTMENT they are able to have. We are told to "'waste not; want not." Spending more money than is necessary is a form of waste. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Discuss with the sisters the following: When buying, try different brands, or unbranded products that cost less, to see if they aren't as satisfactory for the purpose for which they are to be used as the articles that cost more. Do comparative buying to see how much can be saved. Compare prices of identical branded products in different stores. ALPINE LILIES Dorothy J. Roberts As wind wakes from the autumn doorstep, Wheeling toward evening in a pirouette And southward on a threnody of wings, Leaving with a cry, but to return to a song; As moon, spring's rover, must midnight, By midnight, watch the winter field Till snow thins to cluny lace On the clods of April's hunger, And as hour on hour, must light move Up from the cycle of slumber CJ Toward the dark horizon of the dawn, And night give way to the unfettering sun, In mimic, oh, my striving year, Let lilies leap from the alpine weather As feet of frost cross glacier And soles walk the summer of sod. 317 APRIL 1966 MY YELLOW BIRD Alda L. Brown Blithe canary! My yellow bird of spring! Golden is the merry note From lilted throat you sing! We share a rendezvous with May— One trysted hour with dawn. From lilac-scented bough you flay A roundelay of song! | will miss you, yellow bird, When gilded petals close. No longer will you sip From dew-filled cup. Unheard Will be your rush of wing. So silent will my morning sing When summer goes.. CEDAR CREST ~ BOYS RANCH ~ GATEWAY T0 A BOYS WORLD Cedar Crest Boys Ranch provides a professional staff dedicated to the physical spiritual and social development of boys 8 thru 16 located 6 miles from Manti Utah at the edge of beautiful and rugged Manti La Sal National Forest and adjoining Palisade State Boating Park For further information write Cedar Cr st Boys R PO. Box 8093 Salt Lake City Utah 84108 a 318 Mother Do Your Children Know What To Do With Love? Give Your Children the LDS answer by providing them with their copy of "What Shall We Do With Love" by Ernest Eberhard Jr. Written for teenagers, by a Church youth educator, with thirty years of experience, it covers the whole problem from a positive, youthoriented point of view. (5th printing) $3.25 at all LDS bookstores or order from Bookcraft, 4 1186 South Main, Salt Lake City, Utah SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April TEMPLE TOUR April 18, 1966 HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways Canadian and New England States Tour September —_ Alaska Pageant Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 382-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6.90 mone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 more 4.65 Zone 8.1.20 mone 5.80 DESERET FPEwsS PRESS a Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples Hawaiian Lei Day Tour April 23 — May 8 Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 2] New England—Canadian Fall Tour | September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Two great Murdock Tours for YOU 1. Highlights of Europe Tour Departs June 9th This personally escorted and allexpense-paid tour of Europe is designed to please the most fastidious traveler and to give him the best of Europe in 21 days. You'll miss none of the really important places and sights and always enjoy the finest accommodations all at unusually low cost. MURDOCK Address TRAVEL SSSSHSSCSSHSHSSSHSSHSSSHSSHSSSSHSSSSHSHSSSSHSSSSSHSHOSSSSSESECS MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main/ Salt Lake City, Utah. Dept. A Please send information on: [_] Highlights of Europe Tour [_] Vikinglands Tour 2. Vikingland Tour Departs July 12th Fly SAS DC-8 Jet Express to Scandinavia for 22 days of sheer enchantment. See the Fjords of Norway, "The Folklore District of Sweden," the Fairytale land of Denmark, and many wonderful sights. Highest class accommodations all the way. Amazingly low cost. R. S. Apr. 66 ¢ 319 : (Jf P sha if, TSA ff,; 104 Mrs. Anna Glackmyre Agee Mrs. Sarah Humphreys Passey Mora, Minnesota Thayne, Wyoming 100 Mrs. Martha Rogers Platt Mrs. Daisy Deen Larson Granger, Utah Idaho Falls, Idaho 99 Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffiths Mrs. Sena Simmons Curtis Clarkston, Utah Moroni, Utah Mrs. Christine Peterson -Nielson Mrs. Mary Ann Tuck 98 Cardston 9 Salt Lake City, Utah Alberta, Canada Mrs. Johanna Elzinga Hand Mrs. Olena Maria Petersen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amy Louise Fletcher Bailey 97 Mrs. Albertha Fransiska 'Nielson Hatch Fort Collins, Colorado Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Luella Higbee Schnebly Mrs. Alice Collins Frost Farmington, New Mexico Ogden, Utah. Mrs. Celestia Ashcroft Rogers 96 Mrs. Rachel Middleton Jensen Logan, Utah Ogden, Utah: Mrs. Emma Bohman Webb 95 Mrs. Mary Ann Limb Young Provo, Utah Manti, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman 90 en ene Stocking Holt Salt. Lake City, Utah y, Mrs. Sarah Jacobena Jensen Fenton 93 Mrs. Lisania Knight Brimhall Salt Lake City, Utah Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Bernice Lindquist Mrs. Maude Marie Boshard ati | Salt Lake City, Utah North Hollywood, California Mrs. Camilla Winget Magleby Mrs. Ida May Taylor Flinders Monroe, Utah Ogden, Utah Mrs. Julia Ann Rebecca Smith Anell Mrs. Lottie Sherwood Baker Jacksonville, Florida St. Johns, Arizona Mrs. Lelia Marquess Ferrell Mrs. Margaret Robson Brown Hopkinsville, Kentucky Ogden, Utah 9? Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh Mrs. Lina Selma Stock Nestler Bakersfield, California Salt Lake City, Utah | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN BROOKS OSE By top Lds authors As Translated Correctly, by Mark E. Petersen $2.50 Here is a new and exciting discussion of Bible trans- | lations both ancient and modern by a popular contemporary Church writer, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. Taking as his theme the Article of Faith reading: ''We believe the Bible to be the Word of God as far as it is translated correctly,'' Elder Petersen goes on to present a thorough and well documented analysis of the Bible as it has been translated in various ages. Facts surrounding the Prophet Joseph Smith's inspired but incomplete translation are included. Other popular Mark E. Petersen books include; Our Moral Challenge: One Lord, One Faith; Toward a Better Life; and Guide to a Happy Marriage. Who Am I?, by Alvin R. Dyer $4.95 The crucial three questions of all investigators of truth are, Who am |? Where did | come from? And Where am | going? This authoritative and well-documented volume explains the meaning of earth-life existence from the basic concepts revealed by God to man in this dispensation. The | author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, has done a masterful job in handling his subject. Other books by the same author include: This Age of Confusion, The Challenge, The Fallacy, and The Lord Speaketh. @eeeeeresereerereereeraeenseoneerestesevesereseeereeerereseoeree ee seeereeseereereeeeeeeeeseeoereeeereeer eee @ DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check money order | have an account, please charge. Amount § > Se >, Ss. For [] As Translated Correctly TM Mark E. Baliveen [] Who Am I? By Alvin R. Dyer cee cece PS eee eee eee eee eee eee e eee ned ee detec deta edb t ede pete eta eeeeaneeenernneees RTE ieteetitiiwieiinwuweveeuewwwieeeees -- DMN? Cries tee ee7. | Residents of Utah, please add 3'2% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax.
