VOL. XII JUNE, 1925 NO. 6 
CONTENTS

Page

At the Dawning Grace Ingles Frost 279
Portrait of President Charles W. Penrose 280
Our Beloved Leader 281
The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City 282
Relief Society Conference Minutes 283
Greetings and Report Clarissa Smith Williams 283
Preparation for Group Conventions Amy W. Evans 288
Efficient Stake Supervision Lotta Paul Baxter 289
Reports of Stakes on Maternity and Health Work 291
Disaster Relief Annie D. Palmer 296
Supervision in Employment Lydia Alder 301
The Transportation Problem Cora Kassius 303
Family Ties Amy Brown Lyman 306
Teachers' Topic for August 325
Editorial—A Fitting Tribute 326
The Contribution of the Emigrant 326
Resting Time for Mother Mary H. Woolsey 328

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—25c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

For our success we are indebted to our friends

Bennett Glass & Paint Co.
65 West First South

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different
Delivered

PHONE WAS. 3223

CALLAWAYS—"THE GIFT STORE OF THE WEST"

The only line of Imported China and Glass Novelties in the city. Gifts for every occasion. Prices to suit the purse. Wonderful showing of colorful and artistic Glass and China for Weddings and Anniversaries.

Special Attention to Mail Orders

66 MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY

Make Sturdy Boys and Girls

Our fine quality bottled milk gives health, strength, energy, ambition and success to boys and girls too. It is the best food in the world for growing children.

"Daily Deliveries Before Breakfast"

CLOVER LEAF DAIRY

Temple and Burial Clothes

Complete Suits for Men and Women
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a.m.—5 p. m.

General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
23 Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

KEELEY'S
Silverware
Dinnerware

159 WEST 1st SO.
WASATCH 2177 

At the Dawning By Grace Ingles Frost In the gray shrouding mist of the morning, When roses hang heavy with dew, When quietly throbs heart of nature, My soul reaches out unto you. And in the deep silence unbroken, Save sounds there some bird's native song, I enter the Holy of Holies, Where hallowed memories throng. Within the vast walls of that temple, Unveiled for the moment I stand Face to face with You, God of my seeking, And know the firm clasp of your hand. And when dawn flashes over the hill's acres, Her quivering arrows of gold, I greet her, grown strong for the conflict, Of all that the day may yet hold. PRESIDENT CHARLES W. PENROSE Born February 4, 1832; died May 16, 1925 Our Beloved Leader Charles W. Penrose is dead! His like never has appeared among us before, and never will again, for the conditions out of which his life arose and in which it developed will not probably be repeated. He was the exceptional man. He was one of "the poor rich men," of whom we cannot hear too much in these days of materialism— poor in the things of temporary value, rich in the things of permanent worth. For he sought to apply God's measuring-rod to whatever he wished to evaluate. Although he served his Church and community in various ways his outstanding achievement lay in his work as writer and preacher. He was not an editor, but a Man in the editorial chair; not a public speaker,. But a Man in the pulpit. Ready of pen, he could dash off an article while others were thinking about it. Quick of wit, he was also penetrating of thought—a rare combination indeed. And his expression was clarity itself. Whether as writer or preacher, as politician or churchman, as citizen or official, he was always the Lover of Truth as he came to know it. This was his passion. He loved God with all his heart, and served Him day and night without stint. His out-pushing intellect delighted to play about the outposts of thought. But always, too, he was the Knight in Armor. The battle-field was his native ground—as many an antagonist has seen to his hurt. For his pen and tongue were not only trenchant, but caustic as well. His very name is synonymous with "Defender of the Faith," and ever will be. He has gone to join that noble company of other Defenders—Joseph Smith, the Pratt Brothers, Joseph F. Smith, and others whose thoughts and feelings he shared in life and will share in death. May he rest in peace! The Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Where the General Meetings of the Relief Socie ty Conference were Held THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XII JUNE, 1925 No. 6 Relief Society Conference Minutes Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The official conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, April 2 and 3, 1925. The first day was devoted to officers' meetings; the morning session was limited to general and stake officers and board members, and the afternoon session included, in addition to general and stake officers, the ward presidents. Two general sessions for Relief Society workers and for the general public were held the second day, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. At the officers' meeting 18 members of the General Board were present, 90 of the 94 stakes were represented, and 5 of the United States missions, including Hawaii. There were in all 535 delegates; 71 stake presidents; 5 mission representatives, including 3 presidents; 88 stake counselors; 46 secretary-treasurers; 190 special stake officers and board members; 135 ward presidents and visitors. The attendance at the Assembly Hall sessions was 2,850. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at all sessions of the conference.. The ushers were provided by Grant stake, and gave excellent service at all the meetings. The musical program was under the direction of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister. Special solo numbers and selections by the Relief Society choir were rendered, adding much to the spirit of the meetings. Miss Edna Coray, general organist, acted as accompanist and furnished appropriate opening and closing numbers. The general board entertained the visiting delegates at a reception at Relief Society headquarters, on the evening of April 2. OFFICER'S MORNING SESSION President Clarisa S. Williams President Clarissa S. Williams opened with greetings of welcome, expressing appreciation for the faithfulness and devotion of Relief Society officers, 284 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE New Boarp Memsers: President Williams introduced two new board members, recently appointed: Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford, and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder, who had been sustained by the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society. Mrs. Bradford and Mrs. Alder have both heen successful and devoted Relief Society workers, Mrs. Bradford serving for nine years as president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Alder for ten -years as president of the Ensign stake Relief Society. Warp CONFERENCES ON SuNDAy: President Williams explained that it is the desire of the General Board that Relief Society ward conferences be held on Sunday in preference to any other day. The General Board is anxious for the work of the organization to be put before the people of the ward and it iS felt that this can best be done in a Sunday meeting. Where ward canferences are held on Tuesday or any other week day, the public generally is not in attendance, and inasmuch as the board wishes to acquaint the public with the Relief Society work, it has been definitely decided to recommend that all ward conferences be held on Sunday. By consulting with the bishop and the Relief Society stake president, it is felt that Relief Society women will be able to obtain consent for the Sunday conference. SoctaL Service InstrTuTES: President Williams reported that a course in family welfare work is being given at Relief Society headquarters under the direction of the General Board, with Amy Brown Lyman in charge, assisted by Miss Cora Kasius and Miss Lydia Alder. This course is being given for the benefit of the Salt Lake county stakes—nine in number. Five delegates are attending from each stake and the course will cover a period of twelve weeks. In conducting this course, the General Board has the full cooperation of the Presiding Bishopric. A short course of twelve lessons was recently conducted by the Palmyra stake. The attendance included the ward bishoprics, ward Relief Society presidencies, and the stake board. The program was carried on under the direction of the General Board. Revise Socrety TEMPLE Donation: Questions have been asked by many officers and workers regarding the Relief Society temple donation. Inquiries have been made as to whether this fund is ever to be used for temple maintenance, or for any other purpose than for work for the dead. In answer to this question President Williams stated that the fund which is donated by Relief Society women for temple work, namely, 50c by each woman in the organization for the endowments of a woman who has passed away, is donated and should be used to pay for temple work, and should never in any instance be used for temple maintenance or for other purposes. Each woman in the Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285 either goes to the temple to redeem one woman, or she contributes 20c for the redemption of one woman, and the money so contributed and donated should be used for this purpose only. If in the past it has ever been used for any other purpose it must have been through a misunderstanding. Wherever contributions are made, an explanation should be made that this money is donated specifically for temple work for women and is not made as a general donation for temple maintenance or other temple activity. It has been recommended that where possible names from local organizations be sent in with the money. Where this is not done the letter accompanying the money should explain specifically that the money is for temple work. Temple funds may be sent directly to the temple from the Relief Society, or they may be turned over to the genealogical committees in the stake and wards to be sent in with stake and ward names. RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICERS IN REORGANIZATIONS: There still seems to have been some misunderstanding in some of the Societies, regarding the division of funds at the time of reorganizations. It is recommended by the General Board that funds which are on hand in the stakes and wards at the time divisions occur, should be divided between the new and the old organizations. The General Board recommends that when a stake or ward is divided, that such stake or ward divide the funds on hand at the time of the change proportionately with the number of members in the new division. The funds are often divided equally, although the new group may be smaller than the old one. Revier Society Funps: The question has been raised as to whether the Relief Society should contribute from its funds to the ward for general ward purposes. It has been brought to the attention of the board that frequently money is needed by wards for special ward work, and the Relief Society has taken funds from its treasury either from the general fund or from the charity fund, and has presented them to the ward for these various purposes. The General Board has been instructed by the General Authorities of the Church that funds collected by the Relief Society for general Relief Society purposes, or for charity or health work, should be not diverted or used outside or the organization ~ itself. Funds collected for the Relief Society should be used within the organization itself and should not be diverted for ward maintenance or for other general ward purposes. If the Relief Society is asked to give any assistance to the ward proper, funds should be raised especially for such purpose, and in some special way, without disturbing the Relief Society ward treasury which consists solely of Relief Society funds raised for Relief Society work only, and not for other purposes. The General Board realizes that the Relief Society is a very large group in the ward 286 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and that this group should be willing to assist the ward in raising funds for such purposes as in the opinion of the bishop should be fostered by the auxiliary organizations; but it would seem much better for the Relief Society, under such circumstances, to make special effort to raise this special fund for the particular purpose desired by the bishop and the ward authorities, rather than to take funds from the treasury, which have been contributed for other purposes. It is advised that where money is needed for ward purposes, and all of the auxiliaries are asked to assist in raising this fund, that the Relief Society take part with the rest of the auxiliaries in this general duty, without disturbing in any way the regular Relief Society ward funds which have been contributed by the members of the organization for the Relief Society work proper. The wheat trust fund should be held and the interest used for health work, including maternity chests and bundles and health clinics. -The expenditure of this fund, especially, should be under the direct supervision of the Relief Society stake presidents. It is further advised that Relief Society funds be not hoarded but should be used for the, promotion of Relief Society work. Nurse ScHooL_: The General Board is still interested in the training of practical nurses or nurse aids, and it is hoped that before many years a definite course for practical nurses or nurse aids may be arranged for. The General Board regrets that the nurse aid's course at the L. D. S. Hospital was discontinued, but the hospital was asked to eliminate this course, or its grading would be lowered. There are some hospitals in the United States which have succeeded in putting in a short course in maternity nursing only, and it is hoped that our hospital here may be permitted to do likewise. In case this can not be worked out, the General Board may decide to reopen its theoretical school for practical nurses, and stake presidents may be called upon at any time to assist in fostering such a course. Crinics AND HeatrH Centers: There has been some objection on the part of physicians in various parts of the state to the health clinics and health centers which have been established under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. Wherever health centers or clinics are to be introduced it would be a wise plan for the local committee, on which the Relief Society iS represented, to take the matter up with the local doctors in the community with a view of getting their cooperation and support. It should be explained to them that the opening of clinics is not designed in any way to interfere with private practice. These health centers and clinics are supposed to make examinations only, and refer all work to the family' physicians. It is only natural that doctors who have spent a large portion of their lives in training RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287  for their work would resent having people given free treatment under the auspices of the state or of private agencies. Doctors are usually willing to do charity work where it is recommended, but they object to having people who are. Able to pay for medical work given free service. Community workers should therefore make it plain to the local physicians that the health centers and clinics are only for examination and that all treatmen will be referred to them. QUINQUENNIAL CAMPAIGN: As state chairman for the Quinquennial Committe of the International Council of Women, President Williams thanked the stake and ward officers for the splensupport given the central committee of the state in raising the state quota. The fund was raised to help defray the expenses of the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., in May 1925. The National Council will be the hostess on this occasion, for the International Council, which is made up of the National Councils thirty-six countries, with a membership of thirty-six million women. Mrs. Williams explained that she was named by Mrs. Philip N. Moore. President of the National Council, to act as state chairman of Utah, and she was notified that the quota for the state was $3,500, and that the fund was to be raised by all the groups in Utah affiliated with the National Council. The following organizations in Utah which are affiliated with the National Council sent delegates to the meeting called by President Williams: League of Women Voters, National Woman's Relief Society, National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Women's Relief Corps, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Women of the G. A. R., American Association of University Women, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers' Association, Women's Christian Temperance Union, Young Women's Christian Association, Medical Women's Association, National Auxiliary of Spanish War Veterans, American Legion Auxiliary, Service Star Legion, State Nurse Association, the Temple Sisterhood. The representatives assembled decided to raise the fund by asking every member of every affiliated group in the state of Utah to contribute 10c toward the state fund. Immediately after the meeting held early in November, letters were sent out to the local presidents of the various groups and there was such a hearty response from the women of the state to the appeal of the central committee that in less than three months the quota was raised and torwarded to the 'president of the National Council. Mrs. Moore hastened to acknowledge the receipt of the contribution from the state, and to inform the chairman that Utah was the first state in the union to send in its quota. The Relief Society responded in its usual prompt and liberal manner, as did other affiliated groups, and 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Utah accordingly raised its ful] quota. As General President of the Relief Society, as well as State Quinquennial Chairman, President Williams extended her heartiest thanks and gratitude for the generosity of the Relief Society women. PREPARATION FOR GROUP CONVENTIONS Mrs. Evans said: In Preparing for group conventions the first step is to plan carefully every detail concerning the conduct of the Relief Society meetings, By so planning, time is saved and the object of the convention more successfully accomplished. As soon as the conference date is known it is well to get in touch with the Presiding authorities of the stake and arrange for your meeting place. Estimate the number expected to attend the stake and local officer's meeting, then be sure that the room assigned is large enough; also that there are enough seats— in the room add much to the: proper atmosphere of the meeting. Seme time is saved if the hymns are selected before the meeting begins, and the chorister understands exactly what is expected In order to assure a good attendance one stake sent written invitations to every ward, with a special request that the ward president attend. Extend very cordial invitations to. The bishops. Stake and local officers' meeting would be well. Of the priesthood, at least the advisory high councilmen should attend the stake board meeting. As ithe Program contains a topic on ward teaching, a great effort should be made to get ward teachers to attend. A warm welcome to the ward officers from the stake officers helps to create a good spirit. In some places the stake officers stand at the door to welcome the people, until five minutes before the opening of the meeting.: The General Board Tepresentative takes to the convention an attendance blank which should be in the hands of the stake secretary before the opening meeting of the conference, The president's report should include a summary of the special activities, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 289 and should tell of the things which cannot be told by figures. If the executive officer's meeting is held at noon, make the luncheon of secondary importance. The stake Relief Society presidency should be ready with good suggestions for the general preparations for the convention, in case they are asked for them. Lack of preparation and planning has a dampening effect, while well-thought-out arrangements make for a successful convention. EFFICIENT STAKE SUPERVISION Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member of the General Board This little talk is culled from the reports of the successes of efficient stake leaders. I wrote to some of the stakes and received their replies and am giving them to you here today just as they were sent to me. If it had been possible to have written to all of the stakes in the Church we could have found valuable material from every stake in Zion, but I wrote to only a few of the nearby stakes. The replies I received to the letters I sent out were an inspiration to me and J will read extracts from them: Successful Relief Society work depends upon close cooperation with President Williams and Secretary Lyman, and upon counseling with the Priesthood stake presidency in all contemplated activities. There should be complete understanding and harmony with counselors and all members of the stake board. Unity of stake board in thought and purpose and equal division of responsibility are essential. In one stake each board member is requested to present two new ideas each month for the benefit of the work and these ideas are considered in board meeting. Careful preparation for and conduct of union meeting is beneficial. Proper supervision and help given in union meeting to ward leaders react in the ward work. If work of the union meeting is of a high standard, the ward work is apt to be the same. Stake workers should earnestly seek the Spirit of God to guide them in their responsible work. The most efficient stake supervisors are spiritual-minded women who have a firm testimony of the gospel, a love for the work, and a vision of the future possibilities of the organization, and who know their officers and workers and are willing to cooperate with them for the good of the work. An efficient stake supervisor will also uphold and sustain the Priesthood authorities. Leaders should have an understanding of Relief Society work and be possessed of a sincerity that will attract people and will win their devotion and support. Stake officers and board members should be selected prayerfully and with great care, with a consideration of each member for the 290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work she can best do. Board members should understand that their work means individual responsibility as well as true cooperation. This applies to ward organizations also. To ask of others only that which you would be willing to do yourself is a good motto for officers to heed. Effort shoud be made to interest as large a number as possible in Relief Society work, having as many as possible share the responsibilities. ° A sincere testimony of the gospel is fundamentl for successful leadership. This, combined with executive ability and desire to serve, would make always for success. To leave the work, not only with better methods but with more faith in the soul of every member, should be every officer's goal. A first step in supervision is to gain confidence and support of all Relief Society workers. To be a successful leader one must be able to include many people of different temperaments in the work and possess the ability to find good in all. A leader must possess self-control and tact. Supplementary to these reports, I have found in my own observation that one of the great contributing factors toward efficiency is to have the advisory high counselors and stake presidency thoroughly informed regarding all activities and ideals of Relief Society work. The Relief Society stake president should make it known to the stake presidency that it is very desirable to have live, active, interested members of the High Council appointed to cooperate with the Relief Society in their work. If for any reason the brethren chosen are unfamiliar with the Relief Society activities, the president should make an effort to inform them regarding the work and interest them in it. Efficient stake workers will see, among other things, that the annual report is in the hands of the general secietary on tine; that stake and ward records and accounts are up to date; that the special date to collect and send in annual dues be observed; that all Maqazine lists of subscribers be. Written legibly and promptly forwarded, and that all Relief Society funds be safeguarded and used for the purposes for which they were donated. Relief Society conference delegates should return home from conference with a firm determination to comply with and put into practice, as nearly as possible, all suggestions and recommendations of the General Board. They should endeavor to carry to their local officers the spirit of the conference and a summary of the instructions. Members of the General Board have visited you in your various stakes and have witnessed your devotion to this cause, and the standard of efficiency you have attained. We have all come home filled with admiration for your efforts and splendid results. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 291 Your Share You don't have to carry the whole of the load; The world only asks what is fair. The task will be done and the burden be borne, If everyone shoulders his share. There's a part of the work that's intended for you, And, be you a boy or a man, You've nothing to fear at the end of the day, If you do just the best that you can. Don't bother so much about somebody else; Just think of your own little work. If you only keep busy, you'll not have the time To notice how other folks shirk. Do all that you can to bring cheer in the world And overcome evil with good. There's no need to fear or cherish regret, When you've done just the best that you could. —Louis E. Thayer. REPORTS OF STAKES ON MATERNITY AND HEALTH WORK President Williams called for three-minute reports from a number of the stake representatives present, regarding their work in the interest of the maternity and health work. She explained that the Relief Society women have been cooperating with the state health departments very successfully in the administration of the Shepphard-Towner Act. The Relief Society, throughout the organization has supported the state health departments in conducting clinics and health centers. In addition to the cooperative program with the various state health aepartments, the Relief Society has been working out a program which includes the establishment of maternity chests, bundles, and layettes. The stakes were called in alphabetical order to report their work along these lines. Alberta.—The stake has established a maternity chest, supplied with bundles and layettes. Each ward has one bundle. Additional clothing is on hand in the stake maternity chests, for sale or for gifts to the needy. There is a good hospital in the stake, with three fine physicians on the staff. Alpine —Three health clinics have been held. The stake is divided into districts each of which has maternity bundles. In two of these districts there are hospitals, and the bundles are kept at these hospitals. The high school teacher has asked for 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the privilege of having her domestic art Rimdlentd make layettes. Many minor operations have been performed. The doctors have been very willing to cooperate in the work. Bannock.—Health clinics have been held, and valuable lectures on nutrition and health have beer given by the local doctors, nurses and county agents. Bear, Lake—Each ward has made some effort toward establishing maternity bundles. Several wards are beginning to fill their maternity chests with emergency supplies. A number of wards have bundles for use in case of death. A clinic was held in September where ninety children were examined. Follow-up work has been done in all but three of these cases. During the summer months courses are planned in nutrition and child welfare and used when there are no regular outlined lessons furnished by the General Board. Bear River —There are three health centers organized in this stake. These are carried on by competent committees, upon which the Relief Society is represented, which operate under a general committee composed of the stake board. In those wards which are centrally located the health centers have been established, and are equipped with the necessary articles for carrying on the work. The centers are well attended and the doctors very willingly give their help and support to the work. All wards have maternity chests and bundles. All the maternity work done by the Relief Society in this stake has been financed from the interest on the interest of the wheat fund. It is planned, if necessary, to use the wheat interest itself later. Beaver—The Relief Society women of this stake assisted with the Red Cross roll call, and were allowed 50% of all money collected through them to assist in the maternity and health work. They have also used the interest on the wheat money. A clinic is held one day each month at Beaver, the central location. The local doctors and nurses have cooperated and given their services. Much good has resulted from the examinations made at the clinic. The clinic is proving to be very beneficial to the young prospective mothers in this stake. There are no maternity bundles in the ward as yet. Each ward has on hand bed pans, and other emergency equipment. Benson.—Seven health conferences have been held in six different towns, and every ward has had access to these conferences. Very effective follow-up work has been done. The physicans in the locality are not quite converted to the idea, but it is hoped that their cooperation will be gained in the future. Big Horn—This stake has cooperated with the Wyoming health nurse and has held a number of three-day clinics. Two wards of the stake are 150 miles away but clinics were held there RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293 also. The physicians in these distant wards were not converted to the necessity for the work, and so a physican went with the stake people to these wards to do the work. Follow-up work is dcne and reports made to the state nurse. The larger wards have maternity chests. The smaller wards have a few articles on hand. Many health lectures and nutrition classes have been held. Bingham.—The Relief Society of this stake cooperates with the Red Cross health center. All organizations in the town participate in the work of the health center, which has been conducted during the past year under the direction of the state child welfare department. The state health nurses make surveys of the work done and they find that health conditions have greatly improved. Two stake board members are sent with the nurse who makes the survey, so that word may be brought back to the Relief Society stake board of the results of the clinic. The wheat interest has been pooled. It amounts to $360, which is in the bank under the direction of the stake board. A plan is being worked out whereby the money may be used. This plan has been approved by the stake presidency and the cooperatiun of the county commissioners and local physicians and hospital board has been secured. The plan worked out makes provision whereby the hospital will give rates to women recommended by the Relief Society. Women may enter the hospital for ten days at a rate of $30 (2-bed room.) The regular rate is $43, so this is a reduction of $13. The doctors charge regularly $35 for maternity cases in the city, and beyond the city limits, a mileage charge is made in addition, which in some cases would make the total cost about $50. They have given a reduced rate as low as $25 for the cases that are brought into the hospital. The stake, however, must assure the doctors their $25 and also assure the hospital tne $30. This makes a saving of $24 for all cases which are put in the hospital. Cases are very carefully inspected and doctors join with the Relief Society officers in deciding who should have reduced rates. When it is found that a patient cannot afford the $55 reduced rate, the Relief Society assists. For example the Relief Society may contribute $30, providing the husband pays the $25 for the doctor. Women who do not care to go to the hospital are helped where necessary in their home confinements, sometimes to the amount of sheets, pillow cases, towels, diapers, etc. If any articles are needed $15. Need has not been found for maternity bundles, but for in a ward, the stake is called upon to supply the needs from the central chest, as these articles are provided by the wheat interest fund which the wards have pooled. Blackfoot—This stake gave an entertainment and secured funds, which were used to supply each ward with a maternity 294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bundle and emergency supplies. The layettes made are sold. There was no health nurse in this county, so a Relief Society committee interviewed the county commissioners, the Red Cross authorities, and the school officers, and succeeded in raising enough money to finance a county nurse. Shelley stake is also located in the same county, and gave money for this purpose, and shares _in the nursing service. The board in charge of the community health work consists of one member of each organization which assists in financing the proposition. The doctors give their services wherever necessary. Two children with spinal curvatures have been sent to Shriners' hospitals for treatment. Blaine.—The stake has been cooperating with the state health department. Each ward in the stake has held a health conference where mothers and infants were examined. Follow-up work has been done, and operations performed where necessary. The physicians feel that through this health work the lives of many mothers and children have been saved. There is a nurse, supported by the Delano fund (which is a memorial established in honor of her parents by Miss Delano, a nurse who died during the war) in the northern part of the state. The Delano fund fund provides for five field nurses, and the Red Cross determines where these nurses shall work. The Blaine stake has been fortunate in securing one of these five nurses to work in that section of the state. Under the auspices of the Red Cross, a course of twelve lessons has been given in each ward of the stake, in nursing. Over three hundred school children have been examined and much follow-up work has been done. There is a splendid spirit of cooperation between the stake Relief Society and the local physicians and hospital authorities. In one ward where goitre symptoms were found to be very prevalent among school children the Relief Society financed the treatment of these cases. There is one maternity hospital in the northern part of the state. Boise—There is a Salvation Army Rescue Home, in Boise, for unfortunate girls. The stake Relief Society has been able to help unfortunate girls in getting into this home. Any girl who belongs to the Church is taken care of there and the stake helps to pay the expenses if necessary. Dr. Almond, the state physician feels that the Relief Society women are among the most capable and most efficient women he has met throughout the state in taking care of unfortunate people in their communities. Most of the wards have maternity chests started. The stake board provided some articles for each ward to encourage them to begin their maternity chests. Some of them have very beautiful chests built especially for the purpose. So far, the bundles have not been used very extensively. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295 Box Elder.—Relief Society officers cooperate with the state health officers. Every ward in the stake has maternity bundles on hand. Brigham City wards have the benefit of a competent nurse who takes charge of the bundles. The local doctors think the establishment of the maternity bundles is one of the best things ever done in the community. The bundles are in use all the time. There is a permanent health center at Brigham City. There have been many operations as a result of the clinics held. The local doctors and dentists are in full sympathy with the clinic work and give their hearty support. The graduate nurse gives nutrition talks. The health work is not only greatly appreciated by the doctors and nurses, but by; the people as well, and it has been a great saving for those of modest means. The stake is planning to establish a loan fund for mothers who need a little help for hospital care. Burley—The wards have been instructed to get maternity chests established. One health clinic has been held. Cottonwood.—In Cottonwood stake a clinic has been in operation for three and a-half years. The doctors work on the rotary plan. The clinic is held every Thursday. Infants and children of pre-school age are examined. The stake board feels very fortunate in having a splendid graduate nurse as one of its members. At present, an average of over thirty children are examined every week. The maternity hospital established by this stake accommodates ten people, and at present there are seven new babies there. So many applications are being received for reservations in the maternity hospital, that it is feared the hospital will be unable to accommodate them all. Dr. Beatty. State health commissioner, recently visited the hospital and said it was one of the best of its kind he had ever seen. He said he hoped to see such homes as this established all over the state. He feels that the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital is a model. The stake officers have the full cooperation of the county doctors. There is a staff of twelve doctors, and they also work on the rotary system at the hospital. There are two house ductors subject to call in case of emergency. A charge of $40 is made for two weeks (foucteen days), and everything necessary is furnished by the hospital except the mother's underwear. The laundry for the baby is done, and the layette is furnished and all medicine necessary, except special perscriptions by the doctors. The doctors in the hospital charge $30 per case; outside of the hospital, they vharge $35. The women who come to the hospital may have any doctor they wish who is a member of the hospital staff. The doctors are doing all they can to encourage women to go to the hospital for confinement. Cache.—Two clinics have been held in connection with Logan 296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stake. At the second one, a great deal of follow-up work was reported. In Cache stake the wards have begun to establish maternity chests, but are planning to keep on hand only the articles which they think will be used frequently. Jayettes are made and furnished to needy mothers at the time of confinement. The Relief Society women feel that about the only articles which can be kept on hand, without deteriorating from age, are bed pans and douch cans. Rubber gloves are also held for use. Carbon.—The wards in the coal camps are well looked after by the doctors and nurses employed by the coal companies. Health clinics are held in the other wards. All the wards are working to get the maternity chests, bundles and layettes. It is felt that a great deal of good has resulted from the health centers. Officers' Meeting—Afternoon Session DISASTER RELIEF Mrs. Annie D, Palmer When I was first asked to talk on the subject of disaster relief, I wondered whether we might feel that there was sufficient need to devote our time for a few minutes to the subject, and then when I thought of the disasters that have already come in the past to our state and our people by the way of flood and of mine explosions. Then, when I thought, too, of the program that has been given by both ancient and modern prophecy, I could see that indeed there is much for us to think about as Latter-day Saint women on the subject of disaster relief and how it should be treated. A little incident that happened only a short while ago in the way of a family disaster will help to point out how we have thought, and how we have acted, in the past in the matter of disaster relief. In one of our stakes a home was burned and with the burning ef that home the mother of the family lost her life in her attempt to save a child. The story, as it was told and as it came to the newspapers, was most pathethic, nothing could be much sadder. Within a very short time two men had made the rounds of about five communities asking for relief for the family. The men also went to an organization for public welfare and asked that the organization give some relief to the stricken family. When they were asked about the condition of the family there was very little information to be had. Was the house incumbered with a mortgage? They were not sure. Was it covered by insurance, so that the loss would be repaid to the man and his family? They did not know. Were there relatives who could help RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297 in the rebuilding of the home, or had the man other resources such as money in the banks with which he might rebuild, or did he even have another home? The men did not know. When asked what the family needed they simply threw up their hands and said, "Everything; they need everything. Those motherless children are huddled together in a corner crying and there is nothing for their comfort." That was the situation as it appealed to them. The organization to which they had made the appeal made an investigation of the conditions. They found indeed that the little children were huddled together in a corner. That was but natural. That was something that could not be helped, perhaps, not because of need but because the mother was gone—nobody could restore the mother, nobody could take ner place. Of course, the children huddled together in a corner and cried. The investigation was made a few days after the disaster had occurred. It was found that used clothing had been contributed in large quantities, which had been gathered in several wards and kad been sent to'the scene of the disaster in carloads. There was so much used clothing that it had been piled into the corners of the house to which they had been temporarily moved, it had been piled out in the coal shed, and up against the wall on the outside— so much of it that no one family could use it in years. In the same wards from which this clothing had come there were dozens of families who might have been made comfortable with what had been hastily gathered together and sent to the scene where the stricken family was huddled together. It was found that none of the girls of the family knew how to make over the used clothing, and they were not at all inclined to put it on and wear it as it was. So there was the used clothing thrown out in the weather— a useless heap. One of the girls said that in their cellar there was fruit which their mother had put un for the winter, and the cellar, which had not been burned, was full of fruit. In the meantime, loads of fruit had been gathered and hurried off to this family whose home was burned. It was found also that the man carried insurance on his home, and all together the relief was greatly out of proportion to the need. Now, what is true of a family disaster is sometimes true also where there is a community disaster, but there has been considerable progress made in the last few years in the way community disasters are handled. Since the time of the Johnstown flood, in 1889, there has been considerable improvement in taking care of disaster relief. At this time a large fund was raised and it was distributed as soon after the disaster as possible, on a per capita basis, each family receiving its share according to the number of people in the family, and it was immediately disbursed in that way. About twenty years later the Cherry Coal Mine disaster happened 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and there was a very great difference in the way the fund was handled at that time. In the Cherry Coal Mine explosion 256 men were killed. A relief fund was collected and the committee was urged to disburse these funds immediately. The committee made an attempt, however, to educate the people away from this narrow way of per capita distribution and to educate them into the broader and better way of looking after the families according to their need, and so there were three social workers employed on a part-time basis to take care of the disaster relief at Cherry. There was a period of seven months of temporary relief, the period in which they were simply supplying food and clothing without even trying to rehabilitate the families. After that, they looked farther into the matter of permanent relief. No money was allowed to pay off debts after the terrible disaster, and no money was given as benefits to those who had suffered financial loss, but were able to go on and care for themselves. There was no attempt to indemnify anybody for any loss. It was not apportioned off to anybody according to the degree of family relationship. In the final distribution they divided the survivors into two classes, seme of whom received grants for the rebuilding of their business, and others who received allowances to be continued over a period of years. A few days later the Dayton flood occurred. It is said that at the Dayton flood trained social workers were the backbone of the relief work. This disaster involved a large amount of property loss, but there was no attempt made to repair these losses. Relief workers at that time considered that the family was the unit, that need was the basis, and that cooperation was the principle of relief. The fund was used, after the first period of reconstruction, in the community itself, looking to the sanitation, the health conditions, and things that had need of immediate attention and repair. After that the fund was used to repair houses and to help to build new homes. In San Francisco, in 1906, which is going back some, they seemed to have had a fairly good and constructive plan, even at that early date. Following the terrible disaster with its destruction of property in San Francisco, no attempt was made to reimburse prosperous businesses or moderate proprietors. Small business concerns were helped to reestablish themselves by grants ranging from $50 to $500. Cottages were built for five thousand families at a low price and were sold to these stricken people, each family being required to pay from $4 to $6 per month on the buildings. When they could produce a lot and were able to move the buildings away from the public ground on which it stood, the money they had paid in was refunded to them, so there was an incentive right from the start for these people to rebuild their homes. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299 I know that you are all somewhat interested in the disaster which occurred at Castle Gate, a year ago (March 8, 1924). By the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law, enacted before this date, there was no family left without any means whatever of support. This Workmen's Compensation Law gives to each family of the miners who were killed $16 per week regardless of the size of the family. This is paid by the Utah Fuel Company, who are the insurers in this case. Immediately following the disaster, the Utah Fuel Company announced its intention to take care of the burial of all of the men who were buried on the grounds. Relatives who wished the bodies shipped to other places had to pay the additional expense. The Fuel Company also offered to every family a commuted sum; that is, the family could draw from compensation whatever was necessary for immediate need even to the extent of several hundred dollars. They also extended credit to every family whose breadwinner had been killed in the mine, so no one suffered for the necessities of life. The Carbon County Red Cross chapter was also on the ground and assisted in supplying food and clothing. Relatives of the people from all over the state and the adjoining states came and I am sure a great deal of help was given by them, so the immediate need was taken care of at Castle Gate. I am sure you can see how these people might have huddled together in their helplessnes, just as did the little children of the family of whom I spoke in the beginning. There was nothing that could have been done for that feeling of helplessness, other than to stretch forth the hand of sympathy. An appeal was made in the state and a large relief fund was accumulated. This relief fund has not yet been entirely distributed. But is being used constantly. A relief committee was organized, appointed by the governor of the state and the comnuittee procured the services of a relief worker to go into the homes cf these families and to do social work according to the best methods and best plans that have been devised so far as the committee knew, and in that way this work has been and is being carried on even at the present time. No family was given a large amount of money but they have been given allowances from the fund from month to month according to the best judgment and skill that we have. It is the hope of this committee that the means will last over a period of quite a number of years while the children are going to school, and that it will take care of their health and educational problems. It is true that at the time when a disaster occurs it is not a difficult matter to raise money, because instinctively men and women are touched by a great sorrow or a great disaster. But just as impulsively they demand that it be handed out immediately, 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and I believe that the experiences of the past have shown that the immediate disbursing of relief funds, at so much per capita, is not the best way to handle relief funds. 'At the time of the flood disaster there were men who lost equal amounts, but some did not receive a share of the relief fund. This was because these men had enough means left so that they could continue with their business. Others who had not lost any more had lost everything they had. But this is a just way to administer a relief fund. The one who was able of himself to pick up the threads of life and go on with his own affairs does not need to be the recipient of a relief fund. A relief fund is not for indemnity, it is not for loss. Each family of a stricken community has its own problems just the same as exist in any community. There are families everywhere who are worse off financially than the women of the Castle Gate disaster. I am sure that you will agree with that. There are many of those women who realize it, too, and who realize that they are wonderfully blessed in having a compensation due them and in having relief funds to help them out. The reason we get a relief fund together is because the stricken community has nobody in that community to help the others. Otherwise, the family problems are very similar to those we meet in any community. As to the general principles of procedure in disaster relief, I should say that the first thing is to look after emergency relief, to supply food, clothing and shelter, and to treat problems of health. The next thing is to get the cooperation of every agency that is interested. There should be an estimate of the need, and this should be based on a fairly good investigation. Then, if necessary, an appeal must be made for help and it should be a sane appeal. It should not be made farther away than is necessary. If it is a family, help from one community is enough. If it is a big community disaster, then the appeal should go only as far as is necessary for the need of that community. Then each family should be studied and dealt with by a social worker. Permanent relief should be given, as it is found to be necessary by the social workers. If there is a larger fund than is needed, it should be held as a state fund where it can be used on a similar occasion if needed again. We need something in the management of our state whereby a fund which is not all really needed fur the welfare of the people for whom it is raised, could be kept in the state and used for another disaster. The essential lesson we have learned from a study of disasters is that the needs of a community which has met disaster are the same as the needs of a family; health, income, recreation, education, and spiritual development, and when these are broken into RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301 there must be some way of reestablishing them and restoring people to a basis where they can develop a normal family. SUPERVISION IN EMPLOYMENT Miss Lydia Alder, Relief Society Welfare Department. The prevention of unemployment is such a big problem that we could not hope to solve it here—but as social workers, we are in a position to do a great deal to alleviate the sufferings of those who are thrown out of employment: (1) by administering to the wants of those who are unemployed and (2) by using our influence to see that proper legislation is enacted in their behalf. We are just emerging from a severe industrial depression, perhaps one of the worst known in our history. During this time, we all, as social workers, have been taxed to our utmost in meeting the varied problems which such a period naturally inflicts upon the communities. According to Bernard Shaw, the trouble with the poor is their poverty. Think then how much would be removed from their sufferings if they had adequate incomes. We will all agree that insufficient wages, insufficient leisure, insufficient employment, and unwholesome and improper working conditions give rise to a great part of our social troubles. It is much more important to eliminate the causes than it is to attempt to alleviate the results. Professor Warner in his book American Charities says that in an effort to tabulate the causes of poverty, he found that in 50% of the cases studied, the sole and predominant cause of distress was insufficient income. Facts such as these led to the organization of committees to study industrial conditions, with the result that we are gradually obtaining laws for the protection of the laboring class. A direct result of this study is that practically every state in the Union and the Federal Government have some sort of legislation limiting the hours of labor, also establishing a minimum wage. Prior to 1907, there had been no legislation regarding industrial insurance but today practically every state has this insurance to protect its laboring class. Of course, the thing we are looking forward to is when we will have social insurance against unemployment which means that when a man is torced into idleness, he will receive insurance during; the time he is idle. This plan is being received with favor, but as far as I know, it has not been enacted anywhere in this country. In our own community, the employment situation is still very bad. An employment bureau has been opened by the city, and the superintendent of this bureau reports that there are 3,500 men RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of work in Salt Lake City. They are trying to give men temporary work in lieu of permanent positions of which there is a dearth. All winter long, we have tried to deal with the stupendous problem. We have had numerous families come to Salt Lake from the rural communities, who have thought conditions would be better here, but after months of disheartening experiences, they are glad to return to their farms where they are at' least sure of a roof over their heads. Our monthly reports from the Relief Society Employment Bureau for Women shows that during this depression work has mot been so scarce for women as it has for men. Every day women come to us with the story that the man of the house is out of employment and has been for months and they are forced to seek employment. In instances of this kind, the man becomes the housewife and cares for the children during the mother's absence. I don't think they particularly care for this role—but the women are glad to seek employment if there is a chance for them to obtain even a remnant of an income. In conclusion, I would like to say a little more about our Employment Bureau for Women. We are serving hundreds of girls and women each month, trying to give them proper vocational guidance in addition to proper employinent. We have a great many girls coming in from out of town and we are especially interested in them and endeavor to place them in suitable places. I should like to relate two instances to you of the service rendered two girls who applied to our bureau. Not long ago, a young girl came into our office asking for employment. The experienced eyes of our bureau detected immediately that the girl had a goitre and that. She needed medical attention rather than employment. Another girl was sent to our office by the Y. W. C. A. Employment Bureau where she had applied for work. It was learned that the girl already had a position in a home as a domestic, but she was restiess and wanted a change. In fact, she intimated that she was having some mental difficulty and she thought that ultimately she might develop some mental disorder. A mental expert was consulted who said the girl was suffering from a slight melancholia which might result in a permanent mental condition, if she was not given the proper environment. In going into the situation more thoroughly it was found that the girl had been working in wealthy families, and at the time she came to the office she was employed as a nurse maid in a home where she was considered as a servant and was not allowed to associate with the family at alt. She had no friends, and she did not seem to have the ability to make any. An effort was made to find out if the girl was interested in any one thing, and one day she confided to the visitor that since she RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303 was a small child she had wanted to be a nurse. This confession gave us something to work to. A position was secured for the girl as clerk which enabled her to earn enough money to buy her uniforms and she is now in training in one or our own local hospitals. Her close association with the other nurses has solved her mental difficulty and her ambition has been attained. THE TRANSPORTATION PROBLEM Miss Cora Kasius, Relief Society Welfare Department When I consider the transportation problem, I am often reminded of the story of two little children who were playing in the green field near their home. They saw a beautiful light far away and one said, "Look yonder at the golden windows." The two children scampered off in search of the two golden windows which they saw ahead in the east. As they went farther and farther they found the field was not so green and the path became rougher. When they reached the place where they had seen the bright golden rays, they found nothing but an old shack on a rocky, rugged hill. Then they saw that the beautiful golden light was off in the opposite direction—that the golden light was really over their own home. There was nothing for them to do but wander back. We often find people who become discouraged, whose home conditions are not pleasant, who are overburdened and distressed, and they think that if they could only get away off in some other part of the world, that conditions would be better, that life would be sweeter. They, too, see these fickle golden windows and go in search of them. It is not uncommon for us, who are working with families, to meet with requests for transportation. A woman perhaps wants to leave her husband and go back to her mother, or a man thinks he can find employment in another state, or perhaps in his old home town. In making decisions when persons apply for transportation, there are two definite things to remember: first, the person's residence, and second, the transportation agreement. By residence we mean, where does a person belong? Where does he live? Ordinarily it is the place where he was born. If he moves from county to county, it takes four months to establish his residence in the new county. If he moves from state to state, it takes one year. So, if a person appeals for money to go to a different place, one of the first things to consider is, where is his residence? If he belongs here, the probability is that it is better to work out his problems at home than to go where he has no claim on the taxes, public funds or institutions. By the transportation agreement we mean that there exists an understanding between the 304. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE counties and states that dependent persons are not to be moved from one place to another. If a person is dependent in one town and is sent to another place, the agency or individual who arranged for his transportation, is liable to prosecution by law. The only method which is proper to use to assist a person in moving to another place is by arranging for an efficieut investigation by, and securing an approval from, an agency at the applicant's destination. You perhaps frequently have requests in your own communities, from people who wish to move to Salt Lake or to some other center. If the family presents many difficult problems, it may appear to be an easy solution to assist the members to move. But the officials at the destination are perfectly justified in having a person or a family returned to his legal residence. The reasons and justice for this procedure are obvious. Public money and taxes raised are designed to be used for the good of residents. Each city and county should assume the responsibility for its own sick, aged, and other people in need of assistance. I know of a man who appealed for assistance to go to California. His appeal was not made to an agency, but to a private individual. He told a plausible story that his mother was sick in California and that he was worried about her. The man to whom he appealed was touched by his story (he was a stranger to him), and secured some money for his transportation. Two days later his wife was asking for help; her husband had deserted her. The man who assisted the stranger meant well, but his good impulses were misdirected. If the man had applied at an agency, an inquiry would have been made about his friends, his home address. It would have been determined if it was all right for him to leave here; a letter would have been written to an agency in California and a visit made to his mother to determine if the mother was able to care for him. Without such an investigation he should not have been assisted. Another time a woman applied for transportation to her home in the Middle West. She had three children, and she explained that she did not get along very well with her husband. She was not feeling well and thought she would be better if she went home, leaving her husband to face his financial worries alone. Immediately we learned what the situation was in her mother's home and found that there was no one there to care for her. Her mother had no resources, and could not provide for four new members in her household. Besides, there was no particular reason for the woman to move. It was just the lure of the golden windows. Things a long way off looked brighter. She really would not have been as well off there, but yet she was restless and unhappy here. But that is comprehensible; her home was not attractive. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305 her income was not regular, and her children were not very well. What she needed was not money to start her on a purposeless journey, but she needed help in meeting her problems here. Her husband needed a steady position, she needed to be taught to keep house, she and her children needed medical care. It would not solve her problem to assist her in trying to escape from it, but the solution lies in assisting her to steady and rebuild her shaking and unstable family structure. A striking example of the need of investigation is the story of two sisters who were here, but whose homes really were in Idaho. They had been here just a short time, looking for work. They became discouraged, were without funds and wanted to go home. It perhaps would appear reasonable to send them at once, as it would not cost very much and they had a letter from their mother, telling them to return.. But after an investigation it was found that there were circumstances at home which made it inadvisable for the girls to return. It was not the kind of home suitable for two young girls to be reared in. But just because they were not residents here, we did not insist on sending them back. The human element involved the welfare of two girls, and outweighed the importance of legal residence in this instance. Arrangements were made for them to go to work here, to enter parttime school, under the supervision of relatives. A situation which we meet more and more frequently is a family touring in an automobile and stopping at each town asking for funds and gasoline. We offer no solution to this growing problem, but it is deserving of our study and attention. If these people were offered no other help except return to their Jegal residence, a number of wanderers might not undertake to make such journeys. We should do all we can to discourage people from moving about aimlessly. There is one other suggestion I wish to make in this brief statement of some of the transportation problems. The desire of people to. Move has beneath it more serious problems, than the mere decision of whether to furnish transportation. This restlessness is often only an expression of other deep rooted maladjustments. We must look carefully into the causes of the restlessness, if we wish to administer effective treatment. Each community is permitting certain undesirable social conditions to exist, and individuals in their discouragement will say, "There's nothing for us to build on 'here, let us try our luck somewhere else." They are trying to escape from something unpleasant, from irritants, from poverty, from failure. To desire an escape from unpleasant realities is natural. We perhaps escape for a time by reading, or by visiting friends or going to theatres. But for people who have few resources, the far off golden windows have a strong lure: We should, of course, help them to gain some security and 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stability at home. If they have a feeling of security, if they succeed at some work, belonging to a church or a club, if they have friends, if there are a number of these ties that give a family a solid basis, it is not going to desire to move. There will not be the need for escape that there is in so many homes now. The transportation problem then, fundamentally, is giving a better foundation and more solidarity. FAMILY TIES Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary I had decided to discuss this subject, "Family Ties" under three headings: family solidarity, parental responsibility, and mutual responsibility. "A house divided against itself cannot stand." A family divided against itself cannot stand. In order to be efficient and effective and helpful in family work, social workers should do everything possible to build up families, to make them solid and united, and develop strong family ties. A family divided against itself sooner or later goes to pieces. There are a great many factors that cause family disasters and cause families to be broken up. A few of the danger signals are selfishness, quarreling, nagging, carping criticism, and failure to adjust. A great many people never learn to adjust, to subject their wishes and to modify their habits in order to make family life harmonious, When people work or live together they must learn to adjust. When a man marries, he must make adjustments; when one child comes, he must adjust to this change in his life and habits, and when more children come, he must again make modifications and changes in his plans and conduct. A great deal of family trouble is due to the fact that people do not learn to adjust. Another cause of family instability is lack of loyalty, and lack of family standards. It is very demoralizing to families to have no regularity and no standards of conduct. There are families who do not care when the children get up, when they go to bed, when they eat, and they have no rules nor regulations nor mutual respect in their homes. Families should have health standards. Religious standards, moral standards, that are honored by all the members. Blessed is the family which sets high family standards and succeeds in having these standards respected by the entire group. Let us look into our own homes and see what our standards are, see if we have wholesome habits of regularity. Neglect of the home by either the father or the mother is disastrous to family development and growth. Another cause of family disintegration may be a display of favoritism. Parents sometimes have one child whom they consider brighter than the rest, and the other children are sacrificed for the benefit of this child RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 to the extent that the others become discouraged and bitter towards one another. Many families are broken up, although they still live under the same roof, because of partiality on the part of the parents to some of the children. We should not ignore personalities in families. Sometimes a woman thinks the man she has married is a plodder, but he is the kind of man one would like to have around if shipwrecked, because he is capable and can build anything with his hands, but his wife wants him to be an after-dinner speaker. She nags at him and tries to make him something that he is not, instead of appreciating him for what he is. Personality should be respected in families. Of course, divorce, desertion and 'neglect break up homes. Disagreements over money is sometimes an element that breaks up families. I know a woman who died and left more to one daughter than to the other children, and the others have not spoken to the girl since, although the mother has been dead twelve years. The family does not have any reunions or any more pleasure together, because of so much quarreling over the money. Sickness and accident and death also cause trouble. A great deal of melancholy and depression in homes is due to ill health. People must learn to adjust to sickness and to deaths, and it is always a difficult thing to do. When a disaster comes into a family, such as death or financial reverses, the family should be united and share one another's burdens. This help should be extended not only while the family lives under the same roof, but after the members are separated. If brothers and sisters, after they are married, stand together and assist the one in difficulty, it denotes that the family ties are strong and unbroken. There are some factors that are conducive to successful family life; and, of course, the first one is suitable mating. It is wise for people to marry some one of their own type, some one who has had about the same kind of background. People get along better under these circumstances. It is also very important for people to marry in their own religion; particularly is this true of people who are highly socialized, like the Jews, the "Mormons," and the Catholics. All of us when we are young and little are dependent upon others for actual physical care. Most of us must again become somewhat dependent in old age. Very few people can care for themselves through their entire lives. People feel more responsible toward helpless children than towards the infirm, aged members of society. We all realize that the children are more importand in a way, economically, and so, much attention is paid to children and their welfare. Children are interesting, are attractive to take care of, and we see the possibilities of child development. Older people are less attractive, are less docile, and are more  308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE difficult to care for than children. We therefore neglect old people a great deal more than we neglect children. A mother can take care of five, six or even eight children, but sometimes it is hard for five children to take care of mother when she gets old. As Latter-day Saint people, I believe we are a little bit negligent in this respect. We think somebody else ought to do it, and that the Church and the county ought to help, instead of taking care of our own old people. Old people want their own way; they have been the center of attraction in their own homes, and it is hard for them to depend on their children for advice and care. They have all spent many years struggling and sacrificing themselves for the good of their children, and now, in their old. Age, they do not wish to trouble or burden their children. It is time, however, for the grown children to repay the debt of love and care and attention, and they should willingly undertake the responsibility for the care of their parents. Elderly people dislike giving up their homes, leaving the familiar rooms and surroundings in which they reared their family. It perhaps is best for their happiness to permit them to continue to live in their home, or have their own homes as long as they are able to care for themselves. If, however, elderly people are not comfortable or properly cared for alone, they should be persuaded to make their homes with their children. Institutions and homes for the aged should be used only when other cares cannot be provided. If family work is properly organized, it is astonishing what co-operation can be secured in caring for the aged. We had an elderly couple brought to our attention, the man was 88 and the woman 71. The ward in which they lived had been caring for them. A few years ago, the bishop felt that the ward was perhaps not giving these people sufficient care and relief, and as he had a great deal of work to do, he asked our office to help. We talked to these old people and found that they had five children but they all were married and moved around and they had lost connection with them. We located the children and learned that the oldest child, a daughter, had seven children of her own and could do nothing for her parents. The second and third daughters were willing to help. A son, who was very shiftless, was unwilling to do anything, but his wife was a very responsible woman and was willing to help. The old couple had a grandson, whom they had reared from infancy, and when these people were all talked to and written to, it was astonishing what a good plan we could make. It was decided that it would be best to — the money all come to our office, as the mother was old and when she was given money she often spent it for things which she did not need, and even gave it away, and so the children felt it was better to RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 have the money handled by an agency. We planned a budget for these old people, which was as follows: rent, $5; food, $20; light, $1; coal. $9; clothes, $5; making a budget of $40. This is what the family did to take care of their old father and mother: the first daughter was not able to give anything; the second daughter was able to give $7; the third daughter, $3; the daughterin-law, $5; another daughter, $5; the grandson was pleased to give $5, which made $25 a month which the family itself was willing to give. The county gave $5, the bishop, $5, and the Relief Society helped with the clothing, and with the cleaning-up of the house for the old people. PLAY "OUT OF WORK" PRESENTED A special number of the afternoon session was a two-act play entitled "Out of Work." The play is a very touching story of a young man who is out of work and who finally reaches the end of his resources and the end of his courage. His wife, too, loses hope when her little girl becomes ill, when the grocer refuses further credit, and when the landlord asks them to move. In desperation the wife calls the Relief Society for help, and through the help and service rendered by the Relief Society the family secures an opportunity to make a new start. The role of the discouraged man and his wife were most effectively presented by R. Kendall Thomas and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson. There was scarcely a dry eye in the audience during the scene which portrayed the series of misfortunes that overtakes the family. The part of the Relief Society visitor was most skilfully handled by LaRue Peterson Romney. Little JRuth Halliday played the part of the child in a very pleasing manner. The arrangements for the presentation of the play were made by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the Relief Society General Board. SUMMER VACATIONS FOR CHILDREN President. Williams announced that a plan to arrange for summer vacations for children has received the approval of the General Board. President Williams asked for the support of the various ward presidents and stake officers in this new movement. Miss Lydia Alder, of the Relief Society welfare department, was asked by President Williams to give an explanation of the plan. Miss Alder stated: "I think we are all interested in children, especially those who do not have many opportunities. The summer months are very trying for children in the city, especially the ones who are malnourished. When we think of these children and-the great open spaces out in the country, we wonder if there is not some way of getting the friendless city child into a friendly country 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE home for a visit. Last year we sent quite a number of children on vacations, and the experiment was so successful that we would like to send more this year. I have in mind two children we sent who were malnourished. They went to a home in the country where they had plenty of milk and vegetables. They returned | looking very much improved and they had both gained in weight. We feel sure there are many people who would be delighted to take some boy or girl for a vacation for a week or two. We would like to have you take this word home with you and if you know of families who would be interested in making some child happy this summer, have them communicate with Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah." General Meeting—Morning Session President Clarissa S. Williams I am very happy to have the opportunity of greeting you again after an interval of six months. Sometimes I wish minutes were hours and hours were days, in order to be able to do some of the things I want to do, but our heavenly Father has ordered things as he thought best, and I believe he has given us the wisdom to temper our lives so that we might be able, with proper activity to do a few of the many things which we find about us to be done. I want to say to you how happy the General Board and officers are that there is so much activity among the organizations in the Church. We are delighted with the progress which has been made in the stakes and missions. It is almost unbelievable the work which is being done—the interest which is being taken. The young-women are becoming interested in the Relief Society, and are assisting us, who are older, to carry on the work satisfactorily. During the year there have been a number of changes. We wish to report that we have added to the General Board two new members, Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder. These women have been presidents of stakes and have been active and forward-looking in their work, and we feel that their help and counsel in the General Board will be of very great benefit and assistance to us, and we bespeak for them your love and your sympathy and your faith and prayers, that you may uplift and sustain them in their work as you have helped us. Throughout the Church there have been many reorganizations of stakes, and new stakes have been organized. There have been many wards reorganized and organized, and the work is progressing very rapidly. Following is a list of the stake changes: Nebo stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes, Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis retained as president of Nebo stake, Mrs. Delila Hughes appointed president of Palmyra stake; RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 Utah stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Utah and Kolob stakes, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon retained as president of Utah stake, Mrs. Hannah A. Mendenhall appointed president of Kolob stake; North Weber stake, reorganized November 9, 1924, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott released, Mrs. Julia E. Parry appointed president; Eastern states mission, Miss Marie Danielsen released August, 1924, Miss Pearl Snow appointed president November 28, 1924; Salt Lake stake, reorganized March 15, 1925, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford released, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion appointed president; European mission, reorganized December, 1924, Mrs. Emma Ray McKay released, Mrs. May Booth Talmage appointed president; Malad stake, reorganized March 28, 1925, Mrs. Eliza A. Hall released, Mrs. Ella Jeremy Richards appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized January 13, 1925, Mrs. Julia E. Miller released, Mrs. Annie S. Kerr appointed president. We feel that great honor is due to the women who have given up active service, many of whom have worked long and faithfully in the upbuilding of the stakes in which they reside. We bespeak for the new presidents of these stakes the faith and prayers and support of the communities. We are very much pleased with the work which is being done in the Relief Sosiety organizations throughout the Church in the interest of maternity and child welfare. Since the passage of the Sheppard-Towner act and the action of the state legislatures in meeting the funds of that act, great forward strides have been made in all communities where the women: of the community have co-operated with the state health departments in the interest of maternity welfare work. In our officers' meeting we heard reports from nearly twenty stakes relative to the work which is being done in the interest of maternity and child welfare. It warmed our hearts to learn of the work that is being done throughout the Church in this movement. Clinics are being held and hospital beds are being provided. We were particularly pleased with the report from the Cottonwood stake of a ten-bed hospital which, through the assistance of the authorities of the Church, they have been able to establish, where they receive only maternity cases. Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, president of Cottonwood stake, reported that there had been as many as seven cases there at one time and they were very much encouraged. They have the co-operation of the physicians of the county and feel that they are going to make a success of the work. In some of the stakes there are two and three bed hospitals or cottages where women may be taken for their confinement under the direction of the Relief Society. In some of the Idaho stakes wonderful progress has been made. The co-operation with the hospital at Idaho Falls and the co-operation with the physicians of the county in which this stake is located is very pleasing. In some stakes the Relief Society workers have one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE visited the physicians and have come to an agreement with them that cases that are recommended by the Relief Society shall be treated at a reduced price by the regular physicians. We feel that in every stake of the Church there is a wide field for the opening up of just such work as this, if our stake and ward presidents have their eyes open and are alert to the needs of the community. We ask you women who are not officers to lend your help and assistance to the officers who are working over you to establish the things which shall be of benefit to the women of the Church. The death rate among infants under one year has decreased very materially. Some statistics from the Presiding Bishop's Office show that during the year 1920 thee were 776 deaths among children under one year, or 49 per 1000, based on the birth rate; in 1921, there were 902 deaths, or 53 per 1000; in 1923 the death rate decreased to 619, or 39 per 1000. We feel that some of the credit for the decrease in infant mortality is due to the efforts of the Relief Society women. We want to say to you, go on assisting in work which will further decrease the death rate of children. Let us work for the mothers in order that the mothers may be healthy, in order that they may bear healthy offspring. A general survey was made recently by the General Board with a view of ascertaining what the Relief Society has been doing in the interest of maternity welfare work, both in connection with state boards of health and independently. Some general headings were arranged and the stakes were asked to report their work as best they could under these headings. In addition to this general report, many very interesting things were recorded in connection with the maternity and child welfare work. The compiled report is as follows: Number of health centers established...................005 13 Number of maternity hospitals established.................Number of districts or stakes in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as stake unit) has co-operated.. 40 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity chests. 13 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity bundles........ 20 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having layettes... 24 Number of local branches or wards in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as ward units) has cooperated.210 Number of wards which have maternity chests.............132 Number of wards which have maternity bundles............306 Number of wards which have layettes..................4.236 Number of wards which have some provisions for health and maternity welfare work, either in the way of clinics, chests, bundles, or layettes.......599 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 Number of stakes which assisted in paying county or school  In addition to the above report, stakes and wards have assisted in arranging for operations and paying for hospital care, have provided household and nursing care during sickness, have conducted weekly classes in health lessons, and arranged for health lectures, and have assisted in providing clothing and equipment for children's hospitals, etc., etc. In addition to the special work done by Relief Society women in the interest of personal health, we would like to recommend that all Relief Society women interest themselves in public health generally, and in sanitation. We recommend that they band themselves together in the interest of clean-up campaigns, that the communities in which they live may be made more beautiful and more healthful, generally. Not only should the community and the streets be given attention, but all private yards and homes should be cleaned and beautified. Relief Society women should insist also on the cleaning up of corrals and other breeding places for flies. Flies could be absolutely eliminated if all members of every community would unite in their destruction. I think a future development of a community health program is to provide visiting nurses. I suggest that you encourage some one in your communities to study for this profession. Some of the stakes are co-operating with their schools in assisting in paying for a public health nurse. We hope in the future to have the community health actively advance. [Note: The addresses of other speakers at the morning session will appear in the July issue of The Magazinc.] General Meeting—Afternoon Session The General Authorities of the Church as sustained at the last conference, and the officers and the General Board of the Relief Society were presented by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and were sustained, unanimously, by the large assembly.: Items from the annual report of the Relief Society, which is a report of the finances and activities in the wards and brafiches where the funds are held and administered, were read by the General Secretary. The report indicated growth and development in every phase of the work. Among the interesting items mentioned were the following: nearly one and one-half million dollars was handled during the year by the women of the organization; the amount paid for charitable purposes during the year was $100,453.51, which is an increase of $43,486 over the amount paid in 1915 for the same purpose. The net assets of the Society were given as $897,575.56, an increase of $363,534 in ten years, or since 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 1915. The present membership of the Relief Society was given as 59,272, which shows an increase of 17,989 members in ten years, or since 1915. (The complete report appears in this issue of the Magazine.) COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON It is a very great pleasure to meet you at this conference and to renew acquaintance with you. I am sure we have all been greatly interested in the report read by Sister Lyman of the splendid work and activities of the Relief Society. I have been thinking of the family budget that we heard about this morning, the system of budgeting our incomes. We have learned during this conference that it is imperative that we set aside certain proportions or percentages of our income for definite purposes, for food and clothing and shelter and education and pleasure, amd that if we spend too much money on food or on clothes, that we will deprive ourselves possibly of education, and that if we go to the extreme in education, that we deprive ourselves of some of the other necessities, so it is important that we seriously consider what to do with our incomes. However, if we do not take care of our lives there is no agency which can extend us a loan of life. I read an article recently by Bruce Barton entitled "Budgeting Your Life," with this sub-heading: "You can have almost anything you want, money, position, fame, but there is a price tag attached to each one. Look at the price tag—the price may be too high." I wonder if we are budgeting our lives with as much concern and as carefully as we do our income, or if we are living each day the best we can without any plan for reaching our ideals. Is our barque of life evenly balanced so that when we reach the storm and troubled waters of life that our craft may sail with safety? We have in our Church a beautiful motto: "The glory of God is intelligence." This applies to us as parents as well as to our children, and if we neglect ourselves in order that our children may have every opportunity we have acquired the gift of self-sacrifice, but what of our intelligence? If we are such excellent housekeepers that we cannot spend one moment in_ spiritual development, and what is the price we are paying? Isn't it too high a price for excellent housekeeping? There are a few of us who may neglect our homes and children for public work. This is too high a price. We should look facts in the face and determine what we are getting out of life. What is there that would be worthwhile that I would be willing to trade my years to gain? Consider the life of Benjamin Franklin and what he accomplished by systematic endeavor at improvement. Other men had wealth and position. Franklin had neither, but we all know RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 315 what he accomplished. His idea was that he should aim systematically to develop morally as well as mentally. He knew what was right and what was wrong, and he did not see why he could not always do one and avoid the other, and so with systematic work he prepared a little book, ruling the spaces down for the days of the week, and the spaces across for the virtues he wished to acquire. Franklin said, "I was astonished to see that I was so much fuller of faults than I had imagined, but I had the satisfaction of seeing them diminish." Each night Franklin would go over the book and in the spaces opposite the virtue in which he wished to improve he would check himself up by making dots for mistakes and leaving clear spaces when he felt he had not made mistakes. In budgeting life we must remember that there are three big fundamentals, the physical, the mental and the spiritual. I am sure that all of the sisters who heard the wonderful talks this morning on the development along physical lines will know that that is the big important thing, because without health we cannot accomplish either of the others. But it is necessary for us to take inventory and see if we are paying too much for any of these fundamentals, to check up and see how much time we give to the development of each of these three fundamentals. In budgeting incomes we find there is quite a variation in amounts, because some of us have an income of $50 a month while others may have $500, but in budgeting our lives we each have twenty-four hours. If we take the eight hours out for sleep, we still have sixteen hours to budget, or 112 hours a week. The physical, of course, comes first, and should receive serious attention. Authorities tell us that if we would spend one hour a day upon the study of any given subject that at the end of one year, we would be an authority on that subject. If an hour a day is too much to spend on mental development, we might divide that and spend a half hour a day or 3½ hours per week. This amount of time spent would not be very much compared with the 112 hours a week which we have at our disposal. So many of us say we have too many meetings. Let us write down honestly and faithfully the time we spend in meetings where we go for spiritual improvement, where we partake of the Spirit of the Lord. Let us write down also the hours spent in spiritual study or study for spiritual development, and the time we spent in prayer. I think we would all be surprised. The aim of spiritual development is life eternal; we as Latter-day Saints believe in life eternal, and that "this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." If this is the aim, what can we afford to pay for it? This does not mean that we merely have to believe that there is a God, but we must know. We all feel that we have the stars and the planets above us, but until we make a real study of
316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
them we do not know them nor their functions, nor do we do anything in life without effort. If we will have this for our motto and we believe that we are here on this earth to prepare ourselves for a future life, then if we can give part of our years, part of our hours each week to the development of the spiritual part, that we will know at the end of time that we have given our hours or traded our time for that priceless knowledge, "that we may know thee, the true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." I pray that we will have vision to see, that we will realize that this time that our Father in heaven gives us is the most precious income that we can have, and that we will live so that at the end of the time spent we will not look back with regrets, and think we have paid too high a price for the things we have done with our time.
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
Having prayed to my heavenly Father for his inspiration to help me this afternoon, I now turn to you for your sympathy and faith that I may remember only that which would be profitable to express. I appreciate the privilege of working with you in the Relief Society. I congratulate you on your successes and desire that my remarks may encourage all to press on in our work and admonish all to grasp every opportunity that will give us a more intelligent understanding of how to uphold the ideals and standards of our Church. There is a proverb which says: "As a man thinketh in his heart so is he." If we reflect upon the deepest meaning of this proverb, I believe we will recognize that we are moulders of our own characters, the makers of our destiny. It will enable us to appreciate more fully the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ as a potent factor in our lives. Our hearts will swell with gratitude to our parents for teaching us the gospel and directing our minds in channels that lead to happiness, pointing out for us a purpose in life toward which all our thoughts and energies should be directed. We will gratefully acknowledge the wisdom and vision of our leaders in establishing the auxiliary organizations through which many of our best thoughts have borne fruits in deeds of loving kindness. The women assembled here today represent a group who do more than their share of the world's work and do it faithfully and silently. They have that rare accomplishment, acquired only by great minds, of being able to see
something divine and wonderful in things which to many minds seem only commonplace. Through our training we have come to recognize the value of the statement accredited Carlyle when he said: "It is not what I
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
have but what I do that is my kingdom;" and as what we do is a product of what we think, how necessary it is for us to entertain only those thoughts which will result in noble deeds. The mind is so organized that it will bring forth either good or evil. Life is so short and there is so much to do, that we cannot permit thoughts of pride and prejudice, envy, jealousy, falsehood, dishonesty, disloyalty, intolerance, or selfishness, to find lodgment in our minds, for they will bring forth the briers and thorns to vex us. They will rob us of success and happiness, and thwart us in our purposes. They will wound those we love and for whom we labor. If we harbor these, our lives will end in disappointment. If, however, in our minds, there is a hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled with thoughts of humility, generosity, forgiveness, tolerance, patience, sympathy, love, and charity. If, as we face the problems of each new day, our minds are fertile with such thoughts as these, they will bring forth good fruits and when the book of life is closed, upon its pages will be recorded only deeds of righteousness. This great victory can be gained only by self-mastery which means constant labor. Many thoughts will creep in unbidden as did the serpents on the shield where Hercules was put to play. You know the story; he was placed on his father's shield to play. Two serpents crept into it, and it is said that the child grasped them by the neck and choked them to death. These serpents, according to one writer, typify doubt and fear. Have they ever crept stealthily into our minds when we have been struggling to fulfil some duty? Such thoughts must be crushed; they are the enemies of education and progress. We must put in their place, thoughts of faith and courage and we can do if we follow the admonition of our prophet which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning by study and also by faith." This year, as in the past, we have in our course of study many splendid outlines. Should some of the problems called to our attention require a little extra mind energy, are we going to cast them aside and say they are too hard? It is so easy to cog Let us resolve to be rowers, not drifters. The Psalmist also points a way to fruitful thoughts, saying, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night." If, in the hours of time allotted to us, we will cause our minds to dwell upon that which is pure and unselfish, as surely as the sunbeam is reflected from the pinnacle of yonder temple, just so sure will good thoughts be reflected in our countenances and we will become women of influence and blessedness, in our homes,
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as wives and mothers; in our Church, as members; and in our nation, as citizens. May the Lord help us to realize the full significance of the proverb, "As he thinketh in his heart so is he," and order our lives in keeping with his will.
MRS. EMMA RAY McKAY Former President European Mission Relief Societies
To say that I enjoyed my missionary work in Europe is expressing it mildly. I love the British country, even with all of its rain, and I love the British people, their genuineness, their honesty, and their quiet refinement. I was surprised at the richness of Germany and at the quality of her people. To see young girls there two hundred fifty of them in a Bible class with their Bibles all marked with red and blue ink, as the missionaries' Bibles are, and to hear them answer every question, was a delight. The scenery of Switzerland and Norway was a delight, even as our own mountain scenery is, and every country was so full of interest that my sojourn was a continuous joy. Nearly all the time we were associated with Latter-day Saints, so we felt right at home in whatever country we were visiting. We arrived in Europe at an opportune time when the conferences were on, and by the reports of the presidents I was able to learn early of the excellent work being done, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to face continually. One of these difficulties is the time of meeting. Since the war the women have really had better opportunity to get work than the men, and so women are working in mills, factories and shops, and do not have time to go to meeting except at night when the meetings are held. We were told this morning that when we rest, we should do nothing, but when those women rest, they are doing Relief Society work. Another difficulty is the place of meeting. Where we have our own meetinghouses there is no difficulty about a room for meeting, but in cities where we rent halls, sometimes they can be obtained for only one day, and all meetings must be held on that day. Where the Relief Society women meet with the Mutuals, the plan is not satisfactory to either organization. Sometimes the Relief Society women meet in the homes of the people, but the homes are often small and women must stand for the evening after working all day long. The item of car fare must also be considered where people go to four or five meetings a week. It has been reported that the families spent from three to ten shillings every week for car fare, and many women have told me that they could not possibly afford to go to a picture show or other form of entertainment because they must use the money for car fare. Another difficulty is the small amount of funds in the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
Societies. At one of our meetings one of the presidents said, "We have a small society, but we have many old people around us to whom we should like to give milk and eggs, but we have only three shillings in our treasury; but if there are any presidents here who need some of that more than we do, we should be glad to divide it with them." This shows the spirit of these women. Relief Society women in Europe cannot go around from block to block collecting money for Relief Society funds. Their money must be raised by making clothing and selling it, and in other such ways. It was the desire of the president of the mission that the auxiliary organizations be up to the standard of the auxiliaries here, so we went into the details of Relief Society work. We instructed the officers regarding their duties and the division of responsibility of their work. We advised regular audits of Relief Society books, and Relief Society reports at quarterly conferences. Prayer meetings before regular Relief Society meetings were established and this brought the officers to the meetings in better time and brought also a better spirit in the meetings. The main thing established was the study of the regular lessons in the Magazine. Before taking up the work, good features of the lessons and the development to be gained from them were pointed out. For the English speaking Saints, the lessons as printed in the Magazine were available, but for the other countries, translation was necessary. I feared the social service lessons were too difficult as given for some to handle, but I learned afterwards that the women were enjoying the lessons and that they could apply them as we are applying them here in the stakes of Zion. Some of the English women preferred to study the English rather than American poets and this is being done wherever desired. The lessons were received with great delight in Germany. Sister Tadje reported that the Relief Society in Basel grew in a very short time from 12 to 40 members, and the societies in Berlin grew from 20 or 30 to 60 and 80. The Relief Societies in Norway have enjoyed the lessons just as much. In Sweden they were just beginning to use them. In Denmark, when I visited the Relief Society, the room was full of men. They enjoyed the lessons so much that they asked if they might go and partake of them. In Holland they were just getting started, and also in Belgium. So the Relief Society Magazine and the lesson work have done much to improve conditions in the societies in Europe. Another factor for development was the desire of the president of the mission that every Church member should be a missionary, and also that every auxiliary organization should be a missionary factor. In trying to work out that idea we saw great improvements in all our organizations.
320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The poet says so long as we love we serve, and so long as we serve others, we are indispensable. Relief Society women in Europe love to serve, and are indispensable in the highest sense of the word. Heaven blesses them for working as they do, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to put up with. May we emulate their example.
MRS. JEANNETTE A. HYDE Member of General Board
(President Williams explained that Mrs. Hyde, who has been business manager of the Relief Society Magazine from the beginning of its publication, has been appointed by President Coolidge as collector of customs for the Port of Hawaii, and that she would soon leave for the Hawaiian Islands. Mrs. Hyde will be given a leave of absence from the General Board during her term of office there, but has resigned her position as business manager of the Magazine.)
The choicest blessings of our heavenly Father have been with us during this conference and if we will retain the things which we have learned we shall be better presidents, better board members, and better officers in the Relief Society. I am glad that I have the opportunity of speaking immediately following Sister McKay, because I have long wanted to tell her of the splendid work which she has done in Europe for the Magazine. Naturally the thing that we think the most about, the thing that we work most earnestly for, is the thing in which we are most vitally interested. Therefore, with all the work of the Relief Society, I believe that the Magazine has stood out to me the most vividly, and I have loved it the most of all, because I have given the great portion of my time to it. When Sister McKay went to England, I think we had some 25 or 30 subscribers to the Magazine from that mission. I think when she left we had 125. Every mail from there seemed to bring orders and letters of congratulations from happy subscribers, telling what the Magazine has done for them. Surely Sister McKay has done a splendid work in putting before the people of the European mission the benefits to be derived from the reading of the Magazine. I am glad also of the opportunity to tell you what you have done for the Magazine. When we started it we had no funds; we had to borrow. It may be quite a surprise to some of you to know that the Relief Society was ever so poor. We started just at the time when the war commenced and before we were well established the United States entered the conflict. Naturally, prices soared. The material that entered into the making of the Magazine went up in some instances 150%. We still kept the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 321
price at $1 a year. We had you in mind, and your exertion in the interest of the Magazine showed us that you had us in mind. It was a hard thing to launch our periodical. It started in 1914, and came to you as a bulletin the first year, free. But we had back of us that stalwart and beloved man, President Joseph F. Smith. He commissioned us to publish the Magazine, and thus to put a medium of exchange between the General Board and the Relief Society women of the Church that you might know of the things that we desire to have you take up in the local organizations, and that we might all work in greater unison and harmony. You have helped us to establish the Magazine, which is now eleven years old and has a circulation of 25,000. All during the years of its existence you have been true and faithful and loyal. I am both pleased and proud to tell you today that we appreciate more than you can know what you have done. When I think of the Magazine, I think of the names that have come in regularly as subscribers and of the faithful agents who have helped us out year in and year out. The Magazine radiates the spirit of Relief Society work; it radiates the spirit of the gospel, and through the Magazine, Relief Society workers everywhere will be able to get a detailed report of this conference, which is next to attending the conference itself. I rejoice to be with you today. I am happy that I have had the opportunity to work in the Relief Society. Whatever I have done, whatever I am, I owe to this great organization, for it has given me opportunity for development. I hope and pray that I shall always have your love and confidence.
(President Williams asked the audience to rise and give a standing vote of thanks to Mrs. Hyde for the excellent work she has done in behalf of the Relief Society Magazine.)
MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD Member of General Board
I cannot tell you how I feel on this occasion. I could not express my feelings even though I tried, but I do feel to thank my heavenly Father for the privilege of working in the Relief Society. I, like Sister Hyde, feel that if I have amounted to anything, if I have done some little good in the world, that I owe it to the training I have received in the Relief Society. When I was just a young married woman, our president, Sister Williams, was president in the stake in which I resided, and she suggested that I be called into the Relief Society to do a special piece of work. I responded and thus began my service in this cause. Now that President Williams has called me to the General Board, I again feel very weak and humble. I think I have never felt so weak as at
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the present time, and yet at the same time I feel that the Lord will be with me if I will put my trust in him. I know through past experience that no matter what we are called upon to do by those in authority over us, if we will put forth every effort, if we will bow ourselves before our heavenly Father in humility and prayer, that he will come to our assistance, that he will make us equal to our tasks. Just before being released from being president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, I asked my father, who is a patriarch, if he would give me a blessing. I wanted a blessing from him, although I had had two patriarchal blessings when I was young. And he blessed me and told me that the Lord was pleased with the work I had done but that he still had a great work for me yet to do. Just at that time I was called to this position. I pray that the Lord will help me to do the work which will be required of me and that I may have your love and your confidence and your faith and prayer to help me.
MRS. ELISE B. ALDER Member of General Board
ABOU BEN ADHEM
Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase), Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace; And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold: Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold; And to the presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?" The vision raised its head, And, with a look made all of sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord," "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerily still, and said, "I pray thee, then, Write me as one that loves his fellowmen." The angel vanished. The next night He came again, with a great awakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blest, And, lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. —Leigh Hunt.
It was not the intention of the author, my dear sisters, to infer that it is better to love our fellowmen than our God, but that if we love our fellowmen we show that we do love our God. This legacy of loving my fellowmen was left to me by my father and mother, and I can say to you now that this must be the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
reason I was chosen to this position. No one can tell you how I have suffered since last Wednesday, the 24th of March, when Sister Williams called me to the General Board. I could not see what I could do. The evil one seemed to say things to me that were not what they should be. I thought, "Why are they choosing me, perhaps because they feel sorry for me." I thought again the General Board is no dumping ground, why would they want me, if I could not do anything; I thought a good many things, my sisters, and I felt how small I was. I shall never forget the reception by President Williams which I received in her beautiful home when she called me there to inform me of her desire that I serve on the General Board. My mother's spirit seemed to be there, and I felt that it was a call. When President Williams put her arm around me and kissed me goodbye, I knew the Lord would bless me and I would be able to do some little good if the Relief Society women would support me with their faith and prayers. I am willing to do all I can but I must have your faith and prayers, because I am not just as strong as I look, and I am the baby on the General Board; but if the Lord will bless me, I feel that I may accomplish some of the things which will be expected of me.
PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us, not only in this meeting this afternoon and in the meeting this morning, but in our officers' meetings yesterday, and that a great amount of work has been accomplished. I believe that much good will be derived by the people in the stakes and missions through your attendance at this conference. I believe that every stake except four, and five of the missions, have been represented at this, the official conference of the Relief Society. We consider that a very splendid showing. When we take into consideration the number of stakes (ninety-four), we feel that it is indeed a very splendid showing to have representatives here from ninety of them. We are always delighted to welcome the mission presidents. Their problems are a little different from ours. We feel that our contact with them is not only beneficial to them but helps us also. My mind has dwelt upon one or two special subjects that I feel would benefit you if they were mentioned. As I went out of the grounds today I walked behind a group of young women and they were talking of the morning meeting. They had been there and had been much interested, or so I judged from what they were saying. One girl whom I supposed was a Sunday School teacher delivered this criticism of us, the mothers: "The audience this morning should go to Sunday School and see the order that is maintained there by the children. No child is al-
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
lowed to get up and go out of Sunday School until it is dismissed, until the prayer and the singing are finished. I was jostled and shoved and I could scarcely hear the remarks of the last speaker, because there were women near me who were making such an effort to get out of the building." Sisters, I blushed at that criticism. I thought, Why is it that we, the mothers of Israel, do not set the example in every respect for our children? Isn't it possible for us to make arrangements to come to our meetings and remain until the meetings are closed? I wish you would regard this seriously. You may think it is a little thing, but I think it is very important. I want to say to you that I believe that we get as much inspiration from the singing and the prayer as we do from the remarks. Now, carry this little instruction into your homes, you stake presidents, you ward presidents, you members, and be determined that no young woman shall offer this criticism again. Let us set the example for our children. Let our children proudly say, "Father and mother do this. Father and mother know what is right. We will follow their example." There is no other teaching, no matter how great, that will equal the teaching by example. If you cannot stay until the meetings are finished, I would suggest that you do not attend. We must learn a little self-control. We must learn to respect the house in which we meet. We must learn to respect that spirit which our heavenly Father gives us in his house when we ask for his blessing. I want to ask you as mothers of boys and girls to give them in your homes the teachings that will make of them the men and women who will be able to carry on this great work of the latterdays. I wonder if you are as horrified as I am at the statistics which appear occasionally in the newspapers in regard to the divorce problem. These statistics show that divorce is on the increase in the United States. Even among people over sixty years of age divorce is not uncommon, although it diminishes as the age increases. Aren't you horrified when you read of a man and a woman being separated who have reared a large family? Some of the noted jurists of the day say that the fault lies frequently in the home, that we as fathers and mothers do not teach our sons and daughters the responsibilities which come with marriage, that we do not teach them that when two separate individuals, with different ideals, different training, different thoughts, are brought together, it takes a great deal of self-sacrifice in order for them to adjust themselves to each other. I beseech you as mothers to think of this subject. Endeavor in your teachings in your home, with your children, and in your home life, to demonstrate that there is no holier union than that of marriage, and that it takes the Spirit of the Lord and the spirit of self-sacrifice in
EDITORIAL
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - - - - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Elsie B. Alder Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. XII JUNE, 1925 No. 6
A Fitting Tribute
The twenty-first of April was the anniversary of the birth of President Clarissa S. Williams. In behalf of the entire organization of the Relief Society, The Magazine extends congratulations to her. In order to express in a tangible way their felicitations to President Williams on this event, Relief Society members assembled at the Salt Lake and Logan temples and performed ordinances for her ancestors. The invitation was extended by the Salt Lake City stakes to all members of the organization. The following stakes were represented at the Salt Lake temple at the five o'clock session on that day: Ogden, Mount Ogden, Weber, North Weber, North Davis, South Davis, Salt Lake, Ensign, Liberty, Pioneer, Cottonwood, Jordan, Oquirrh, Grant, Alpine, Utah, Wasatch, Nebo, and Taylor of Canada. Ordinances were performed for 210 women and 80 men. At the same time Relief Society members of the Cache valley stakes assembled at the Logan temple and performed ordinances for 320 persons. Thus a total of 610 of the ancestors of President Williams received their temple endowments on the anniversary of her natal day.
The Contribution of the Emigrant
Recently the story of the triumph of Dusolina Giannini reached us from across the sea. It has been said of Caruso that his first great triumph was in London, and now an American girl of Italian birth sings in Queen's Hall. And, to quote the news-
EDITORIAL 327
papers, "took musical London by storm." At the close of her program she was forced to sing no less than seven extras before the enthusiastic audience would allow the lights to be extinguished. Mrs. Asquith said she had heard no voice like Giannini's since Patti's in her heyday. The London Times music critic says of Giannini, "Her appeal is instant and it grows as the evening goes on. It is a voice of two octaves, levelly shaded, with the quality of a clarinet and the penetration and carrying power of the horn, and the human blend of these is irresistible. But besides this, she sings with her whole heart and with every part of her." Some day, no doubt, America will be appreciated for her native art and for the artistic triumph of those who have been Americans for several generations. To-day she shines through borrowed light. Those of us who thrilled at the beauty of the architecture and the decorations seen at the San Francisco Exposition are aware of the fact that a good deal of it was produced by Americans who either came themselves from southern Europe or who are the descendants of those who were born in lands beyond the sea. Whatever discouragement the immigrant problem may present, we must not forget that much of the art that we enjoy in this country is ours because we have taken into our national life many people from other lands gifted in art lines. Let those of us acquainted with art development here in Utah, Idaho, and Arizona think of the leaders in various lines; let the names of the musicians run through our minds, and Then determine how many of them were either born abroad or are the children of parents born abroad. Think of people in other lines of art and see how valuable has been the contribution from the people across the sea. The Metropolitan Opera Company of New York has maintained its prestige because it could obtain the great opera stars of Europe. Within the hour in which we are writing this editorial, we have had a chat with two of our local musicians who agree that the Chicago Musical College has on its faculty men almost entirely of foreign birth, who speak naturally a foreign tongue. When we think of the Tabernacle Choir, of which we have all been justly proud of these many years, we realize that its conductors have been men of English birth, of Welsh extraction, and that its present leader is of Scandinavian parentage; that its two most prominent organists, Joseph J. Daynes and John J. McClellan are children of parents born abroad, while many of our leading soloists are of European extraction. There are two sides to this tale of American immigration, and if one picture is a picture of unusual gloom, the other is transcendent in its brightness and should encourage us in the midst of any discouragement.
Resting Time for Mother PART TWO Mary H. Woolsey
"You poor little kids," she said half aloud. "Poor little kids! Hasn't anyone been kind to you before?" The ride ended, they came directly to her. "How did you know my name, Lady?" "I heard Mrs. Wayne call you Billy." "Oh?do you know Mrs. Wayne?" "No. I?heard you call her Mrs. Wayne." They both smiled, as if they shared a pleasant secret. "Tell me, Billy-boy?would Mrs. Wayne mind if you talk to me for awhile?" "No, ma'am; she doesn't care what I do, so long's I get back home pretty soon." "I won't keep you long. Would you and Margery like some ice cream?" Their expressions were eloquent answers. Presently, across a cozy table, they were chatting busily. "Who is Mrs. Wayne, Billy?a friend?" "No'm; not?not 'zactly. She?she keeps us." "Where's your mother?" "She?she died; three years ago." "And your father?" "He died, long 'fore Mother did." "How did you happen to stay with Mrs. Wayne?" "Well, you see?we'd just come here when Mother took sick, and she didn't know anyone else. So she asked Mrs. Wayne to keep us, so's we could stay together. On her dying bed, she begged her to, and Mrs. Wayne promised. And she keeps her promises; she's a woman of her word." Strange words from a boy of Billy's size, thought Mother; then she divined the reason for them: he was simply quoting Mrs Wayne herself. Curiously she fancied even now that she could hear the words spoken in that lady's harshly aggressive voice, and the tears come again to her eyes. "How old are you, Billy?" "Going on 'leven. I?I'm small for my age," he added. "Margery's seven." "She's small, too." "Yes'm." Somewhere near them there was the sound of chimes, and
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 329
when they had ceased, five sonorous notes telling the hour. Billy sprang up. "Oh, gee, ma'am! I've got to hustle. I have to help Mrs. Wayne pretty quick. Can you hurry, Margy?" Margery swallowed her last spoonful of ice cream, drew a long breath, and nodded. "I'll carry her," and with a hug Mother lifted the child in her arms. "Why, you're like a feather, Margery." Soon Billy and Margery were being borne back to Mrs. Wayne's place, and Mother, on another car, speeding in the opposite direction. The lonely feeling returned. "Billy-boy, Billy-boy! I wish I could have you always!" And suddenly Martha Knox sat upright. For in that moment was born her great idea. An idea which she hardly dared put into words, but which thrilled her, dazed her, set her brain racing. She breathed an eager little prayer: "Oh, thank you, God?thank you! And help me to make it come true!" Then, since she was not one who having expressed a desire, sits down with folded hands to wait for its fulfilment, she began at once to devise ways and means to speed the day when her wish might be granted. There was a soft flush of excitement on her cheeks, an unwonted brightness in her eyes, when she reached home; under her breath she hummed a little tune. Noticing which, Rilla remarked to Pauline,?"Mother seems so much happier tonight?more contented. I was sure she'd like the city when she'd grown used to it." Later, over the phone, she repeated the good news to her brothers; they expressed their pleasure at the information. But Mother! Every day she was going out, eagerly, or coming in, a little subdued but still smiling and confident, saying to herself, "Maybe tomorrow." Every day, at the Park, on the streets, she was on the lookout for a thin, oldish boy face, a pair of luminous brown eyes; in other words, she was looking for Billy, whose last name she did not know. The city directory revealed an appalling long list of Mrs. Wayne?and none of them whom Mother had so far located, proved to be the right one. Then one morning, early, she found him. On a busy downtown corner, under one arm a huge bundle of newspapers, lustily calling his wares. "Billy!" called Mother. Glad recognition leaped from his eyes. "Why, it's the ice cream lady. Gee, but I'm?I'm glad to see you!" "And I?I've been looking for you at the Park, every day, Billy." "Haven't been there?even once?since that other time." The boy's face clouded. "You see, Margery?" all at once his worn
330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
little features seemed older than ever. "What about Margery?" prompted Mother quickly. "She's sick?awful sick, ma'am. I mean, she's been awful sick. She's better now." "Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, Billy. Where do you live? I'm going to go and see her?right now." "Mrs. Wayne's place is in Cloud Place, off Boyd Street," said Billy, "but Margery's at Brent's Children's Hospital." "Brent's?" echoed Mother. "How on earth?" she stopped abruptly. "Well, I'm going there right now. And Billy?what is your other name?" "Ward, ma'am; but Mrs. Wayne says I should say Billy Ward Wayne." "I understand?See you again soon, Billy-boy. Goodbye. How on earth," she was thinking, "did Margery get into Brent's Hospital?" Soon she found out?from none other than the great Doctor Brent himself, who came up to the narrow, white bed where Margery lay, while Mother sat by clasping the thin little hand in her own. "Are you?er?a relative?" Doctor Brent asked her. "No?just a?a friend. I-I sort of picked up an acquaintance with her and her brother, one afternoon." "That Billy!?Say, there's a lad for you!" exclaimed the Doctor. "I never saw another like him. Why, he came up to my house?past midnight?and said to me, 'Doctor, my little sister's awfully sick. I want you to come and see her.' And before I could say a word, 'I'll pay you, Doctor?I'll run errands for you, I'll do anything?but you?you've got to come and tend Margery.' And then he slipped right down and all but fainted away, saying, 'Don't bother about me?I'll be all right, but Margy needs you in a hurry!' and then he began to cry. I found later that he hadn't dared ask that Wayne woman for car fare, or even permission to come after me, and he'd run three miles through the city to bring me. Well, I just took him in my machine with me and hurried down to see the little girl?and none too soon, either. ?But she's getting along finely now,?aren't you, Miss Margery?" Margery smiled wanly, and nodded. "What is the trouble, Doctor?" "Food poisoning," he answered. "Some tainted meat that woman gave them; the whole family were affected by it, but this one?poor mite, she's been half-starved anyway?was weakest of all of them and it went pretty bad with her. I brought her up here, because she'd not have had the ghost of a chance, with the care Mrs. Wayne would give her." "Mrs. Wayne?has children of her own?"
RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 331
"Yes. Five of them." "Are they like Billy and Margery??Halfstarved, I mean." "Not a bit of it." Indignation marked every word. "They're regular savages?or animals, all of them. I could just picture them at their meals, like a litter of young hogs at a trough, pushing, grabbing, quarreling, forcing away the weakest ones?who later would get what ever is left?if anything. It's a shame; I can't think of sending this child back there * * * I took such a fancy to Billy; kind of wanted to take them both into my home. But?in a lower tone?"well, the wife isn't exactly in sympathy." Glancing down, Mother saw that Margery had fallen asleep; gently she disengaged the tiny hand, and rose. "Tell her," she said to a nurse who stood near, "tell her, when she wakens, that I'm coming again tomorrow." And to the Doctor, as they walked towards the door, "I?I've taken a strong fancy to those two, myself, I saw Mrs. Wayne once; I hadn't a very good impression of her." "She's worse than that," almost savagely. "Words fail me!? I would like to see Billy and his sister in a good home. You live in Weston, Mrs.?" "Knox?Martha Knox.?No, my home is in Greenfields. I'm visiting my sons and daughters here; James, Alvin?" "Alvin? You're Alvin Knox's mother??Yes, I know him; studying medicine, isn't he??You're going to be proud of him some day. Well, well. I'm glad to have met you, Mrs. Knox? very glad. And I hope?that you get Billy." Cloud Place, off Boyd Street, was as cheerless a place as could be imagined; hot, dirty, foul-smelling, swarming with flies and other pests and with unkempt, ragged, rude children. It was hard to believe that Billy could ever have lived among them. "His own parents?must have come from very good stock," thought Mother, as she walked towards the doorway pointed out to her as Mrs. Wayne's * * * Mrs. Wayne was within. Undeniably, she justified Doctor Brent's opinion of her; she was even more harsh, more coarse, more everything unlovely, than Mother had thought possible. She listened frigidly while Mother explained her errand.. "A'm * * * Can't see whatcha wanta do with 'em; but if yuh' wanta take 'em off my hands, it's yore funeral. Got all I oughtta have, myself. I only kep 'em cuz ther ma ast me?lyin' on her dyin' bed she wuz; plum skairt they'd git put in th' Home, an' maybe separated. What cu'd a body do? I promised; an' I keep my promises.?I'm a woman of my word, I am." She glared at Mother as if her integrity had been unjustly questioned. "I'm sure of that?very sure of it," Mother hastened to say. 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But you see, if you let me take them, I can give them care that you couldn't?without robbing your own?_" "Robbin' m'own?that's what I been doin', all 'long. Tain't right?tain't, But what cu'd I do?_J promised that Pore soul, on her dyin' beqd?" "Yes, yes," soothingly, "I understand that. And you see, if I take them both, you'd 'still be keeping that promise," "Tha? so, Yu kin have 'em, Of course?" a belated attempt to prove her concern for their welfare?"yu'd hafta perduce references," "I?'ll do that, Mrs. Wayne. You may be sure of that. I?ll Set a lawyer to fix it all up right." "A lawyer?wha' for?" Mrs. Wayne showed alarm, "To fix the Papers; to show I'm adopting Billy and Margery." "D' I hafta pay?" "Oh, no. I pay him." "'Sall tight, then * *? When'! Yuh take 'em?" "Just as soon as I can artange things; a day or two." H'm * * Yes. Well, didn't I say you c'd take 'em? I'm a woman of my word; I don't go back on nobody." Mrs. Knox escaped at last. She could not "get things fixed up" too soon, she decided. Mixed with her joy at the Prospect of adopting Billy, was the fear that Mrs, Wayne might yet refuse My dear Children: Forgive me?oh, please forgive me for running away! I had to do it; there was no other way. For what I am doing, you'd think very unreasonable?foolish, Perhaps?because you could not understand; and you RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER 333 could. I can't be satisfied with the life that gives me all play and no work; it's quite as bad as all work and no play. Or worse. No, while I have health and strength, and the will to be doing for someone?and while there are children like Billy and Margery in the world?just so long I'll be happiest in little old Greenfields town, running my own household just the way I've always done. It's the one thing I love to do.. Now, Rilla, James, Pauline, Alvin?be good sports, all of you; and please see that Mother is trying to do what is best, as it is given her to see the best. Lovingly, Mother. P. S. I shall be looking for a visit from you soon. In great agitation, Rilla hurried to the telephone and summoned her sister and brothers for a discussion of this new turn in Mother's affairs. "The council meeting" was brief, and not at all stormy. "There is simply nothing to be done, as I see it," said James decidedly. "Her life is hers, to do with as she pleases; unless we considered her incapable, which we certainly don't." Rilla was almost tearful. "Why, we were trying so hard te make things pleasant for her. And she let me think she was growing to like it so well here!" "Cheer up, sis,' murmured Pauline. "She didn't leave because things weren't pleasant. I've an idea maybe they were too pleasant." "That's it, too pleasant," grinned Alvin. "No kick left in living; all obstacles removed, like a race-track: mighty smooth going, but lacking in scenery of interest. Take it from me, Mother's all right. You can give me the post-scrip, if none of the rest of you want it." "Think it's a ticket of admittance, do you?" bantered Pauline. "Well, at least it isn't marked, 'Admit One!'?When do we go?" Rilla alone refused to be drawn into a lighter mood. "Let's go as soon as ever we can. I can't help worrying about poor Mother, working her knuckles off over a pair of ungrateful little hoodlums who'll soon grow up and leave her and forget all she's done for them." "Oh, cut it out, Rilla!"' drawled Pauline. "Al, for pity's sake, get me away from here, before I start wearing out my tear-glands! Take me to a movie?a hokum, slap-stick comedy?quick!"  They did not announce their arrival by any blare of trumpets ?-or, to be more exact, honking of horn?when they drove up to the Knox gate one morning in September. Perhaps they felt a little ashamed, or maybe just uncertain of the attitdue she should assume. At any rate, it had been a quiet ride for the three of them 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ?James, at the last moment, had been unable to make the trip? and quietly now they went up the walk to the front porch. There seemed an air of real contentedness about the place. A hammock was swung across the end of the porch; in it and about it were tumbled bright-colored cushions; one knew at once that it had very recently boasted a lively occupant, though now it supported only two flaxen-haired dolls and a big lazy tomcat who raised his head as the visitors approached, lazily opened one eye, yawned, and resumed his nap. Several story-books lay on a stand; and old but still servicable bicycle leaned against a porch pillar? Alvin grinned delightedly as he recognized in it his own most precious possession of a few years before. Significant glances passed among them as they opened the screen door and walked into the hall. Then sniff, sniff?a most delightful odor hinted of "sugar and spice and everything nice," led them straight to the kitchen. And there, enveloped in a gorgeous pink apron, stood Mother at her white-topped work table, deftly cutting rounds of yellow cooky-dough. Her eyes were like stars, her cheeks like June roses, her lips curled merrily as she sang the old rhyme about the inert of Hearts and the tarts he stole away. Opposite her, on high stools, elbows on table, supported two faces shining with utter ecstasy were? why, to be sure, Mother's new family. One would hardly recognize, in those two faces, the Billy and Margery of a few wecks ago; already country air, proper food, and cleanliness, and affection, had worked wonders. But certainly they were no other than Billy and Margery, for those luminous brown eyes, those wonderingly joyous expressions, could belong to no one else! "Hello, aunts and uncle!" Mother threw a kiss, from floury finger-tips, to the trio who stood in the doorway. "Come and meet your new niece and nephew; Billy, Margery, here's Aunt Rilla, Aunt Pauline, and Uncle Alvin come to see you. I just knew I was making these cookies for a get-acquainted party." Everybody began to talk at once, and consequently no one could understand anyone else. But gradually the confusion subsided and dissolved itself into intelligible words and phrases: Rilla: "Mother, are you quite sure you're not going to regret this, this?hasty procedure?" Mother: "Quite sure. 'Tisn't so hasty, you see; I didn't do it ira minute, nor ina day. I had plenty of time to think it over.' Pauline: ?We're sorry, Mother, that we tried to fit you, square peg that you are, into a round hole we'd selected for you. We were really trying to be good to you, an didn't know how." Mother: "I know that, dear. You didn't quite understand me; that's all." Alvin: "Well, we're back of you now, Mummy you can bank on that." RESTING TIME FOR MOTHER Over a batch of golden-brown cookies fresh from the oven, Mother smiled at him fondly. "Can you?meet all the expense, Mother?" questioned Rilla. "I've the same income I've always had," returned Mother with spirit. "With that and a garden, and a cow, and pigs and chickens, and our little field of hay and grain, and our new meadow?we'll get along splendidly, won't we, Billy-boy?" "You bet! You bet we will!" warmly. "But, Mother?the work! You, wearing your life away, slaving for someone who will only forget you after awhile? Billy was on his feet, on top of the stool, an indignant little figure; brown eyes flashing, face white, hands clenched. They watched him, fascinated. "If you mean me, ma'am?I mean, Aunt Rilla?Why, you just forget all that. 'Cause I can work and I'm going to help Grandma all I can?" he turned to her a look of vee adoration ? "every bit I can! Tend chickens 'n' pigs, 'n' milk a cow, I can, an' hoe garden 'n' help wash clothes and wo *n' dust, too. Think I'll forget her, when she's brought us to this nice home, and making Margery get all well and strong?and she lets us call her Grandma, 'n'?'n' everything. Betcha I won't forget her? ever!" There was a moment of amazed silence. Then, "You see!" beamed Mother. But Rilla was not yet done. "T can't feel just right about it, Mother. You've always worked so hard; I felt that we owed you our care and protection?" "Oh, get out, Buttinski!" exclaimed Alvin, losing patience. "What we owe Mother is the inalienable right to do as she pleases! And if she wants to turn the farm into an orphanage or a childr?n's convalescent home, I for one will back her to the limit! Get me?" Rilla "'got him" admirably. She went around and gave Mother a kiss. "Any time I can do anything to help, let me know, Mother. I do so want to' see you: happy." Pauline was intently scruntinizing the two children. "Say, when they get a bit more fat on them, they'll be crackerjack models.?Mother, may I come down next summer and paint them?without limitation?" "Of course, you foolish girl. Did I ever refuse you anything you wanted?unless it was bad for you?" "By the way, Mother," spoke Rilla, with smiling curiosity, "when Billy and Margery grow up, will you be adopting another relay?" "eShucks laughed Mother Knox. "It's hard to tell. All I can say is that we'll simply have to wait and see." Save the Extra Expense of Probation on Your Estate ASK US HOW Practically EVERY MAN AND WOMAN has need of service such as our TRUST DEPARTMENT is specially qualified to give. OUR RECORD: OVER FIFTY YEARS OF EFFICIENT, CONSCIENCIOUS SERVICE Zion's Savings Bank and Trust C Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company 1-3-5 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah WE PAY 4% ON SAVINGS DEPOSITS 1069 East 21st South Guaranteed L. D. S. Garments OUR SPECIAL OFFER With every order of $8.00 or over, you get a Fine Rubber Apron FREE. If you do not need Garments now. Get an order from your friends or neighbors On such orders you are entitled to the premium. Be sure and state whether you want NEW or OLD STYLE, MEN'S or LADIES. LONG or SHORT LEGS. A samba recommended for MEN and can be made with Double ack, PRICE LIST FOR SPRING AND SUMMER, 1925 No. 50 Light weight bleach- *No. 60 Heavy rib. Bleached cotton. Flat weave $.95 ed cotton............ 2.25 No. 51 Fine ribbed cotton No. 64 Fine lisle................... 2.25 in ladies' new style No. 66 Fine mercerized lisle 2.75 only *No 68 Heavy weight, 1/3 No. 3.25 52 Fine ribbed bleached, Cotton 1.50  No 54 Med. Ribbed bleach 1.75 *No. 70 Heavy weight. 50% wool 4.00 56 Medium ribbed unbleached 1.75 No 94 Pure silk -12.00 *No. 58 Heavy ribbed unbleached cotton 2.25 No. 98 Fine cotton with silk stripe....... 1.95. Buy Clothes on Payments  We Outfit The Family Credit to Out-Of-Town People NORD'S 270-272 STATE STREET When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WHEN YOU BUY AN AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATOR It?s Surprising how long Ice lasts in the Automatic Refrigerator so thoroughly freshens the air in the Automatic that an union on the top e Ti era or shelf won't spoil the butter and milk refrigerator. The Automatic is so dry that you can scratch a match on the inside walls. Try these experiments with other refrigerators?see how the Automatic excels Automatic scientific air circulation how the MODERN FURNITURE CO.. 234 So. State St. Trade with Your Friends Free A bag of Marbles with each pair of Boys Mountaineer Overalls Ask your dealer for them THE FAMOUS Z. FACTORY OVERALLS MOUNTAINEER TRIPLE STITCH A strong, serviceable Overall, for. Every-day "SUMMIT STRONG SEAMS Will give you wonderful service. KANT-RIP Made of high grade denim ?reasonable_ in price?wears splendidly. Ask your dealer for them. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine: Trade With Your Friends le L. D. S. GARMENTS The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make-a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request. For Ladies For Men No. 1?Flat Weave Ligt................$ 95 No. 902?Ribbed Light Weight....$1.25 No. 2?Ribbed Weave Light........ 125 No. 903?Ribbed Extra Quality... 1.75 No. 15?Extra Quality Flat............ 1.45 No. 925?Med. Light Weight........ 1.85 No. 803?Extra Quality Ribb......... 1.50 No. 962?Extra Fine Mercerized No. 862?Extra Fine Mercerized | CG) | ccc 3.00 Lisle 2.50 No. 975?Med. Heavy Weight...... 2.25 No. 800?Silk Stripe Med............... 1.75 No. 990?Heavy  Cotton........ 2.50 No. 850?Imp. Lisle................ 2.25 No. 9107?Wool and Cotton.......... 4.00 To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States. Oldest Knitting Company in Utah SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City Serving the Women to the State A large selection of cultural courses awaits the pleasure of Utah's young women at the State University. THE FIELDS OF EDUCATION, MUSIC, ART, HOME ECONOMICS and BUSINESS, OFFER SPLENDID OPPORTUNITIES. Urge your daughters to plan their educational work early. Now is the time for them to arrange to enter the summer quarter. Write for further information. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY.?. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  A NEW SERIAL STORY "The Lost World" By ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE Other new features in the The Deseret News Kathleen Kaye, writing exclusively in the News. Secretary Hawkins?Everybody should read this. In the Garden with Luther Burbank. A dividend of 10% to all paid in advance Subscribers Subscribe Now Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY a Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear pere pair $1.95 Box of Three Pairs  $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and. Durable Per Pair ....$1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking  Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable. All Colors $1.00 Box of Three Pairs $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS ANNIE A JENSON 3rd EAST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH  are guaranteed pure, full strength and wonderfully rich in flavor. Your cakes and pastry will be improved by using Blue Pine Vanilla and Lemon Extracts. VANILLA extract When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 