[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: THE NATIONAL PUZZLE. | Author: Unknown]

THE NATIONAL PUZZLE.

	First, who is elected President? And second-
ly, how is the fact to be demonstrated? Third-
ly, is it to be determined by the civil powers,
or by military force? No wonder people are
becoming confused on the subject, for confus-
ion reigns supreme, and if dissolution is not the
result of haranguing for reformation and
amendment, constitutionally why then Amer-
ica is surely exceptionally lucky. If only
some good fairy would whisper in the anxious
listening ear of some popular editor, whose
nerves are strained to the highest tension, or
touch, with magic hand the Electric Telegraph
and send the news throughout the length and
breadth of the country, now anxiously waiting
the grand national denouement, it would be a
most commendable and praiseworthy action.
Alas! the people of this highly enlightened
nineteenth century are too matter-of-fact to
believe in fairies or magic, and too self-confi-
dent to put their trust in an over-ruling power
who the Scriptures affirm, holds the nations in
His hand, and Who has declared he will turn
and overturn until the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of God. So peo-
ple will go on wondering and puzzling and
querying what is to be the result of this pecu-
liar crisis in national affairs.
	It is not strange that people get muddled in
trying to solve the mystery, for there never
was a more vexatious riddle propounded to the
American nation.
	All the reports which have been received
from the different states since the Tilden party
were so positive of his election have been con-
tradictory ones. On every side arises difficulty
in determining the facts, or arriving at a just
decision, and the only way out of it, is to de-
clare the law, pertaining to presidential elec-
tors incomplete.
	This is the only policy left them to pursue
that will not implicate the governing powers.
One party may of course cry out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other, but when
both know themselves to be equally in fault,
what policy so clear as to lay the fault of the
evil issues upon their predecessors who formed
for them a government and constitution of
laws, surpassing all other existing forms, and
yet, (for their wicked purposes,) inefficient.
	And so the great American nation has made
such gigantic strides in advancement (corup-
tion) that they need another amendment to
meet the emergencies of this case. All these
things to those whose eyes are open to "the
signs of the times" are direct indications of
the approaching crisis, which will eventually
result in the final overthrow of all govern-
ments. Some powerful agency which the
world cannot understand is now manifesting

[COLUMN 2]

itself and producing sensations of fear
among the masses of the people, and some
have been so strangely impressed with fore-
bodings of evil, they have recalled the fire-
side tales told them in their childhood, and
shrink with trembling at the anticipation of
another political revolution. The wisest and
shrewdest of political men express themselves,
that when the truth is ascertained about the
election then something may be foretold in
regard to the work which will come be-
fore the House of Congress the ensuing season;
but when the scale will turn or what may yet
transpire, with all the party feeling that now
pervades the public mind still remains inexplic-
able. One thing is apparent to those whose
minds are opened to the light of truth, and
that is that the adversary is striving for mas-
tery in the hearts of the children of men, that
instead of peace, he will, if possible bring war,
and as a natural consequence of war, famine,
pestilence and plague. If this nation would
receive the testimony of the servants of God
many of the difficulties might be avoided; but
they are wise in their own conceit and harden-
ed in their hearts, and as kings and rulers of na-
tions refused to listen in ancient times, so do
they now reject that which would bring them
prosperity and happiness. But Babylon must
fall, and everything seems conspiring to bring
about the fulfillment of the prophecies quickly.
Already are nations of the greatest power and
strength preparing for war and ultimately a
war in which all nations will become engaged
will be the result. In contemplation of these
fearful occurrences the saints should be wise
and seek more than ever for the spirit of God
to direct them, that they may indeed become
not only saviors of individuals, but assist in the
protection of the rights and privileges of na-
tions.
	It may seem to our readers that we have
wandered from the subject, but a question so
momentous in its issues may admit of elabor-
ate discussing.
	It has been advised by those who are anxious
to assist in arriving at the adjudication of the
great question now pending, that caution and
quiet would be "the better part of valor" that
both parties are weakening their own side by
making charges of dishonest dealings; that
positive proofs are the only real specific. If
these wise men can succeed in lulling the great
political tumult and clamor, we hope it may
not prove the precursor of a tremendous na-
tional thunder-bolt that will split asunder the
two opposing parties, so effectually that it will
be impossible to cement them together again,
without, as brother Heber C. Kimball used to
say, "throwing the clay all back into the hopper
and grinding it over.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
