[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: MATTER AND SPIRIT. | Author: M. I. CORAY]

MATTER AND SPIRIT.

	In a late number of the EXPONENT, I no-
ticed a finely written article upon the beau-
ties of Nature. I am greatly in sympathy
with the writer of that effusion. From a
child I have been much given to contrast-
ing the works of man, with the works of
His Maker. By bringing even the tiniest
specimens of heaven's designing hand un-
der the microscope, and noting how precisely
according to the exact rule of its formation,
the smallest flower, for instance was organ-
ized. How certain its progress too, spring-
ing into life, blooming into its delicate
beauty for awhile, then fading, dying and
vanishing from sight. Yet in its disinte-
gration there falls from its minute but nu-
merous chalices an almost infinite number
of atomic germs of life—of flower life eter-
nal. Going out and upward from these
small thoughts, my eyes were opened upon
the fact, that in all the works of Deity, the
law of composition and of decomposition
is always the same under the same circum-
stances, that though He
	"Forms the shining worlds,"—or
	"Makes the cricket sing,"
still the fact of law of order of all atoms
and all masses, is an inevitable conclusion.
Then I said to myself, this being so, that an
inviolable law that cannot be changed, rules
all matter, that everywhere, like must
cleave unto like; that the chemical affinity
of substances are resting on the condition
and properties of each and every ultimate
atom of matter that enters into the struct-
ure of the vast Universe of the great Crea-
tor. That inert atoms must construct them-
selves by their own self-possessed forces and
characters into such masses as they were
made to be associated with, and cannot
combine with those elements which are not
of their kind, or endowed with such cor-
responding forces as shall bind them togeth-
er. If all these be so exactly held by the
laws of their creation, what then shall we
say of the immortal, or quickening element
of life in vegetable, animal, or man. Leav-
ing the two first we are most concerned in
the high powers and endowments given to
that being which, we are told, was formed
in the likeness of God—male and female,
man and woman—and who was first quick-
ened into life by the breath of the Al-
mighty. Even so, and more also shall not
God know the beings He has so created.
Has He not made, and will he not contro
those children of His by a law as just, as de-
terminate as the law by which the worlds
were poised in such position as should cer-
tainly induce in them movement, which
those orbs must make, in order to follow
the orbit marked out for them when He
drew the circle in the heavens, and calcu-
lated the just proportion of every force and
power which should keep them in the track
which He had assigned to them.
	Not to follow this subject further at this
time, for I never have much leisure, my
conclusion has been this. In view of all
the visible acts of God, I must conclude—
first, that every law of God is just, His acts

[COLUMN 2]

are laid in great understanding, that His
decrees are inevitable, that which He has
ordained must surely come to pass, that
though the heavens and earth fail, not one
jot or tittle of His word shall fail, that He
is Omnipotent as well as Al-wise, and hav-
ing said "the just shall live by faith, and
that not of themselves—it is the gift
of God." That no one can enter into
His kingdom who is not both just and faith-
ful.
	M. I. CORAY.
Coray's Ranch, York Station, Nov. 14, 76.


