[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 13 | Title: THAT OTHER WILLIE. | Author: BELLE FRENCH]

THAT OTHER WILLIE.

BY BELLE FRENCH.

	"Willie, why don't you go and play with
the boys and not be forever stuck at my
feet?"
	Such was Mrs. Gray's impatient question,
one day, when her little son came and seat-
ed himself in the parlor when his mother
was conversing with a visitor.
	"I would rather be with you than with
the boys," he answered timidly.
	"Oh, I never saw such a baby!"
	"Is it wrong to wish to be near you, moth-
er?" said the child, and his nether lip trem-
bled as he spoke.
	"Wrong? of course not. But you are old
enough to have some manliness about you.
See, yonder are Will and John Gowdy on
the ice. Run and keep them company. I
want to talk to Mrs. Brown."
	"Isn't he a queer child," she asked.
	The other raised her sad eyes and fixed
them with such a painful expression on the
mother's face, that for a moment Mrs. Gray
almost felt offended. She was a sorrowful
looking woman this Mrs. Brown.
	"I had a son once, but he's gone," she
said at last, and there were tears in her
eyes.
	Mrs. Gray gazed at her wonderingly.
She had not known this before.
	"It is a bitter thing to tear open partially
healed wounds," Mrs. Brown continued,
"but I will tell you my story:
	"Several years ago I was about to give a
party; a grand affair it was to be, and my
head was almost turned in making prepara-
tions. My Willie, (his name was Willie
too,) was about 16 years old. He had never
been to school, I had educated him myself.
At home, he was all a mother's heart could
desire; but he was shy, and when I forced
him into company he appeared so awkward,
that I often felt ashamed of him. This was
one reason of my deciding to give a party.
If he was obliged to act the part of host he
would overcome his bashfulness, I thought.
But Willie never approved of it.
	"I shall be so glad when the party is
over," he said one day; "for since you have
got it into your head, I have lost my moth-
er."
	"Poor little baby!" I responded, slightly
provoked at his lack of interest. "I won-
der how many more years I shall have you
tied to my apron string?"
	I spoke sneeringly, and a proud flush in-
stantly overspread his face.
	"I will be tied there no longer," he re-
turned, "I will seek other company in the
future."
	I was frightened at the result of my
words. Still I made no response. My son
putting on his coat and hat, went out. It
was the first time in his life he had gone
out without informing me where he was
going.
	In good time the party came off. It was
a gay affair, and none were gayer than Wil-


[COLUMN 1]

lie. He was a sort of extremist, and took
no medium stand. After that his books and
work were neglected, and his days, as well
as evenings, were spent abroad. Fast young
men became his constant companions. I
was left alone to mourn over the change I
had wrought. At first he made it a rule to
be in at night by ten o'clock, but after a
time he began to stay out later; and day-
break sometimes found him from home.
I tried to expostulate, tried to win him
back to his old habits, but my efforts were
unavailing. He had got a taste of a new
life and it held him by a charm. Well do
I remember the first night he came home
in a state of intoxication. It was his seven-
teenth birthday, just a year from the time
I gave the party. I had seen him under
the influence of wine once or twice before,
but this night he drank so deeply that some
of his companions had to help him home.
	The hours of that night were dreadful
hours of self reproach and agony. I was so
glad when morning came to dispel the
gloom—so glad when reason returned to my
erring child. He was very much ashamed.
He said again and again he would do bet-
ter; but his resolves were worthless. Two
nights later, he was again brought home in-
toxicated. After that it was a common oc-
curence. He fell lower and lower, squand-
ered all my ready money and, when I re-
fused to mortgage my property, that he
might have more, he left me with an oath.
	That night a large firm was robbed and
it was discovered that Willie was one of
the perpetrators of the deed. The next
morning the town was alive with excite-
ment, and I almost crazed with anxiety,
for my boy had fled. The news passed from
mouth to mouth; my house was searched,
and my son called a villain, but I had no
power to prevent either. No one gave me
a word of sympathy.
	"You have only yourself to blame," said
a blunt old woman, who called during the
day. "The boy was happy at home but you
drove him into bad company."
	That night at the hour of twelve, as I sat
alone, a window was opened softly and Wil-
lie stepped into the room. With a glad cry
I sprang toward him, but he pushed me
rudely away.
	"Can you hide me anywhere," he said,
"The bloodhounds are after me. Had you
given me the money yesterday, this would
not have been."
	"Oh, Willie!" I cried.
	"Yes, mother," he said sternly, "you
have made me a criminal. I want to tell
you I have secretly married Kate Hastings.
God knows what will become of her."
	Kate was a pretty little creature, only 16
years old, innocent as the violets which
grew around her home—My bleeding heart
gave a quick painful throb as he continued:
	"The world will not believe we are mar-
ried. She will be scorned by all. Hark!
they are coming. Mother, I am too young,
too wicked to die, but I must die. Fare-
well!"
	I saw his purpose now, for his hand
clutched a revolver and springing to my
feet I threw my arms about him to shield
him from himself. But he shook me off.
The next moment the loud report of his
pistol echoed through the house. One glance
showed me his lifeless form stretched on
the floor. Then existence was a blank to
me.
	"When I awoke to consciousness the
morning sun was shining and the house
was filled with people. But even justice
was satisfied, and I was left alone with the
dead. All day, tearless and motionless, I
sat beside that mangled corpse. Some peo-

[COLUMN 2]

ple kinder than the rest, came in to make
preparations for the funeral; and passed si-
lently out, but I did not heed them.
	Kate Hastings came just after dark. She
was dressed in deep mourning, and her face
was so ghastly that it startled me.
	"You, too, have come to reproach me," I
said.
	"No, mother. You suffer enough with-
out my reproaches. I have come to watch
with the dead."
	"I wish to watch alone," I said.
	"It is I who will watch alone," she re-
tuened. "It is my right, I am his wife."
	How calm she was! There was not even
a tremor of the voice to tell how she suffer-
ed.
	"Yes, it is your right, my poor child!" I
said. It gives me another pang to give
him up even to you my daughter; still I do
it.
	She looked up quickly.
	"He has told you?"
	"Yes."
	"Yet you speak kindly to me and do not
condemn us."
	A sad beautiful smile for a moment light-
ed up her features. She raised one of my
hands and kissed it reverently.
	"Thank you," she said. "Some time
you will be glad for having shown this
kindness to one so much in need of it.
Now, mother, leave me."
	I left the apartment but did not retire.
All night I sat on the floor outside the door,
hoping that Katie would bid me enter; but
no such summons came. Daylight returned,
and the busy world again moved, still I
head no movement in the chamber of
death. At last my anxiety became so great
that I opened the door and looked in. The
girl knelt by the side of the corpse, appar-
ently asleep. Softly I stole forward and
raised the drooping head. But no sad eyes
met my gaze, nothing but the white face
and staring orbs of a corpse. Katie had
died by her own hand, as a bottle which
she clutched proved.
	The next day they buried the pair; my
erring son and his child wife, in one grave;
and as the clods fell on the coffin, the
brightness of my life went out forever.
	Mrs. Brown could say no more, for sobs
choked her utterance. Her listener, too,
was deeply affected, as her pale face and
tearful eye showed.
	Leaving the bereaved mother for a mo-
ment, Mrs Gray stole softly to the door and
called—
	"Willie!"
	The child heard her and came quickly to
her side.
	"What is it, mamma?"
	"It is so lonesome without you, darling,"
she said, drawing him to her.
	A smile lit up his face.
	"Then, do you love me, mamma?"
	"Love you? Oh, Willie!"
	Her arms were about him now and she
was sobbing on his shoulder.
	"Did somebody tell you about those bad
boys?" he asked wonderingly. "They have
got a flask of whiskey, mamma."
	"Thank God! You are saved, my dar-
ling, she cried, hysterically.
	She drew him closer to her, she clung to
him, she showered kisses on his wondering
face. But never, until he was a man, with
a son of his own, did she tell him the story
of that other Willie, whose childhood and
his had been so much alike, and how, by
the knowledge of that other Willie's un-
fortunate career, he had been saved by her
perhaps from a like fate.—Peterson's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


