[Column 1]
found homes for the orphan and the friend-
less and have contributed liberally towards
the building and maintenance of the Tem-
ple and houses of worship, and have, I be-
lieve, endeavored to promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. Towards the Woman’s Build-
ing the Salt Lake Stake was assessed two
thousand dollars, and this we have more
than paid; the general treasurer states we
have given two thousand, one hundred and
fifty-six dollars and sixteen cents. Still
some of the wards are delinquent. The
amount was proportioned among the differ-
ent wards and some have paid in more than
required while others are behind. The
stake record, therefore, may look all right,
more than satisfying, yet, my sisters, do
not allow your wards to go out of the stake
in debt. See to it, each one of you, that
the required sum is made up before you be-
come a part of another stake.
	While our officers’ meetings have been
very, well attended, and great interest has
been shown, our conferences have been
rather discouraging in this respect. The
members do not seem to feel the necessity
of attending and think the society will be
all right if the president or some officer goes
so as to get instruction. Now, my sisters,
this is not right. In order to keep in
touch with the work of this organization,
and receive the benefits thereof, you must
attend your meetings and I hope the aver-
age attendance in your soeiety will here-
after improve. As it is our record shows
only, out of an enrollment of about eighteen
hundred an attendance of six hundred. I
do not wish to find fault on this occasion,
and only mention these things in a kindly
way to urge upon you greater diligence in
your future work. Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the fisrt society of sisters in this last
dispensation. He gave the sisters much
valuable instruction and predicted a great
future for the Relief Society. As soon as
possible after the location of the Saints in
these valleys, President Brigham Young
counseled tho organizing of these societies
in all the stakes of Zion and also predicted
for the sisters a great future. Today we
see these predictions fulfilled, for the Relief
Society is one of the largest and grandest
organizations of women in the world and
by the united efforts of the sisters the good
accomplished cannot be estimated. Con-
tinue, my dear sisters, in your good works
help each other with kind, friendly feelings,
with faith and prayer. Try to promote all
the interests of Zion, by sustaining home
industries and home literature. Remem-
ber the EXPONENT is the organ of our or-
ganization and enlightens you in regard to
Relief Society work. Read the Church
works and carry their teachings in your
own lives and instil them into the lives of
your children. Do not be indifferent about
storing and caring for the grain. Remem-
ber we were commanded by our beloved
leader, Brigham Young, to make this a
part of our work, and I feel to urge upon
you the necessity of attending to this matter
for I judge by the signs of the times, that
before long we will be called upon to open
our granaries, and great will be our shame
if they are empty, or if we have neglected
this duty. We were told through revelation
to save the grain against a day of famine.
Other prophecies are being fulfilled, why
should this one not? Let us be prepared,
sisters for this day, and let the women of
Zion be prepared for all emergencies and
not be like the foolish virgins with their

[Column 2]
empty lamps, but be ready and waiting in
full faith for the coming of the bridegroom.
	Now, as we are about to separate in our
work in this stake, take with you, my dear
sisters, my heartfelt blessing. May the
peace and the blessing of God be in the
hearts and habitations of all who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord.
	Your sister and colaborer in ihe Gospel,
			M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
gave some instructions and expressed her
feelings upon Relief Society work; exhorted
the sisters to live up to the principles of
the Church and felt that good was being
accomplished all over the world through
this grand society, spoke tenderly of Sister
Horne and their long acquaintance and as-
sociation together and felt she had been a
wise woman.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon who had
been long in the stake with Sister Horne,
said she had enjoyed being with the sisters,
felt that the change in the stake would be
a great benefit to the young in giving them
something to do in the Relief Society work;
she had been so many years associated in
the work that she felt sad in having the
change take place; urged all to be honest
and diligent in doing all they could to roll
on the work.
	Sister E. B. Wells paid a glowing tribute
to President Horne, referred to her mani-
fold labors for half a century and more,
she having been a member of the Society in
Nauvoo; spoke of her great activity in
many ways and many places, her travels at
home and abroad, and gave a sort of his-
tory of the Salt Lake Stake organization,
its officers a[-]d what had been accomplished
in many directions, home industries, etc.
	Solo, Sister M. C. Hull. Sister Clarissa S.
Williams said our interests were still the
same to our fellow laborers, expressed her
love for Sister Horne and many sisters she
had become acquainted with, thought there
was a great work for us to do; responsibility
is a great benefit, it causes us to make ex-
tra efforts when we otherwise would not,
thought the society would increase more
rapidly in the future, double what it had
done in the past fifty years.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings said she
missed Sister Horne, felt to rejoice in the
Gospel, referred to President Smith being
absent from us; she believed all would be
well, the change in the stake would be a
benefit to all.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder: “We have love
for one another, referred to the ordeal of
President Smith, felt she knew the influ-
ence of such conditions for she had wit-
nessed such trials herself she realized the
importance of Relief Society work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards said she remem-
bered Sister Horne many years gone by,
she had tried to take part in the society in
her young life, thought we should pray for
Sister Horne.
	Sister A. W. Cannon read a notice of a
Nurse Class to commence in September,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor.
	Sister E. B. Wells made some explana-
tions in regard to the National and Inter-
national Councils and moved that the as-
sembly send love and greeting to President
Horne, and by a rising vote express thanks
to those who had assisted in helping to
make the conference a success. Mentioned
Prof. C. J. Thomas and others who had
been helpful, Sister Horne’s counselors,
aids, secretaries and treasurers, and all who

[Column 3]
had labored so efficiently during the admin-
istration of President Horne. The motion
was seconded by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert and all on the stand and carried unan-
imously by a rising vote. Singing by a
quartette. Counselor Sarah J. Cannon an-
nounced the conference would be adjourned
forever, so far as she knew.
	Brief remarks in loving words for Presi-
dent Horne by Sister Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, who also pronounced the benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
