[Column 1]
	THE WORLD IN TURMOIL.
	Although there has been a very decided
movement during the last few years for
universal peace, and many nations have
expressed themselves in favor of the Czar’s
manifesto; yet the indications at present
are that the day is far off when war shall
cease to be. The war recently begun in
the East may spread and continue for a
long period of time; already the devasta-
tion it has caused is fearful to contemplate
the sacrifice of human life most of all; and
famine and desolation ever follow in the
track of war.
	Both Russia and Japan are strong in
their own way, and it is not at all likely
that either will surrender while men and
ships and ammunition last, unless some
foreign power interferes and takes matters
in hand. A few thousand men more or
less slain will not affect Russia’s population
much; there are plenty more to be shot
down or blown up, and their lives are so
hard and barren of pleasure that they have
not much to lose, and in a sense they have
no choice in the matter, for strictly speak-
ing, they are serfs. To be sure, they have
great mili ary commanders (with unpro-
nouncabie names), who are skilled in all the
arts of war, and who are trained in military
maneuvering, and know when and why
and how to attack an enemy or circumvent
the foe perhaps, but the Japanese are fight-
ing more for their country’s protection,
and the Lord may be on their side, and
give them the victory. At any rate, there
is greater sympathy for the “Japs” than for
the Russians, perhaps because they are such
an artistic class of people and seem to
have made rapid progress in many ways
during the last half century; all that we
can say at this distance away is merely
speculative as to facts or results, and time
alone can determine, but one does know
that the havoc of war is terrible. 
It may be that other great nations may
be drawn in to protect their commercial in-
terests, which is scarcely a laudable pretext
for war. unless the protection of life depends
upon it. Let us hope and pray that Amer-
ca may have no lot or portion in this dread-
ful conflict, and though we have not in
America at the present time a war on our
hands, we have many disturbances of one
kind and another, such as labor strikes and
things of that kind, and it does create a
commotion and a sort of unrest that is not
wholesome or uplifting. In peaceful Utah,

[Column 2]
where plenty abounds and one would think
there might be peace, there is a ferment
brewing, and men, and even women, seem
disposed to stir up strife and if possible
cause persecution that may stagnate busi-
ness and bring about hard times unneces-
sarily. Utah was prospering, and the attack
upon her people is wholly uncalled for and
without cause.
	Without entering into the controversy,
we declare that Utah is loyal to the United
States, and has proved her loyalty when
men were needed to go forth to battle, and
it is to be hoped the plans of those who are
plotting to destroy the peace and prosp rity
of this new and flourishing State will come
to naught; that at least here in these moun-
tain vales, apart from war and its horrors,
the people who made ‘‘the desert blossom
as a rose,” may be secure in the possession
of the rights of free citizens of the great
country of the United States, for the free-
dom of which many of their forefathers
fought and bled, and they are not aliens,
but loyal and free citizens, who should have
all the rights and privileges of this free
Republic of America.
Peace, O Peace, when will the nation,
	Lift its eyes and understand
How God holdeth all creation
	In the hollow of His hand.


