RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
SISTER B. JANE LUCE SIMONS.
	Born December 1, 1834, near Silver Creek, Cha-
tauqua county, New York; died January 14, 1904,
at Payson City, Utah.
	Whereas, the Supreme Ruler of the universe has
called from our midst by death our beloved sister,
Jane Luce Simons, and whereas she was presi-
dent of the Payson Relief Society for twenty-four
years (previous to the division of Payson into two
wards), performing the duties of said calling in
the fear of God and for the benefit of the sick and
afflicted, thereby gaining the good will and affec-
tion of her associates snd friends, being an honor
to her sex, endowed with the charm of a gracious
presence and a refining power, which she carried
into all the walks of li[-]e in which her lot was cast.
	And whereas she was a resident of the Payson
First ward, and was respected and honored by
all, irrespective of sex or creed, we therefore feel
that we have lost a wise counselor and a true
friend; but know our loss is her eternal gain, and


we hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow
are unknown; be it therefore
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved sons
and daughters our heartfelt sympathy, and trust
they will be comforted in the assurance that their
mother is not dead, but has gone to a brighter and
better world. Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions ba
presented to the family of the deceased, and like-
wise be copied and placed on the records of the
Relief Society and a copy sent to the EXPONENT
and our local paper for public[-]tion.
“Gone from the home of earth,
Followəd by deepest love.
To taste of the higher birth—
To dwell in the courts above."
AGNES C. DOUGLAS,
CLARISSA J. MOORE,
MARTHA B. SYMONS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God in his Infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved President, and
	Whereas we recognise in Sister Elizabeth Berry
a faithful and energetic worker, therefore be it,
	Resolved by the sisters of the Cedar Fort Relief
Society that we mourn her loss, but that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she set for us to follow.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God thaf his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is the Father’s gain.
Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the record of the society, one copy
sent to the family, and one to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication.
