IN MEMORIAM.
	Celinda Hannah Martin widow of the late Josiah
Fleming Martin, died on February 14, 1904, at
the home of her daughter, in Salina, Utah.—Mrs.
Hans. J. Gottfredson, of general debility, having
been afflicted for several years. Sister Martin was
born in Marion County Ohio, on the 29th of Feb-
ruary, 1832, moved with her father’s family, in her
childhood, to Illinois, where in course of time she
married, and moved with her husband to ‘Winter
Quarters’, on the Missouri river, crossed the plains
for Utah in the year, 1852. Moved later to Salt
Lake City where they remained until the Move,
and then located in Payson, moved from there to
Moroni, San Pete, and from there to Salina—in
the year 1865; were compelled to leave Salina on
account of Indian troubles in 1866, and located at
‘Old Chicken Creek’ where they remained until
the re-settlement of Salina in 1871, where they
made their future home. Sister Martin was a true
and faithful Latter-day Saint, unassuming, and
kind to a fault, and a faithful worker in the Relief
Society, and a steady subscriber to the Woman’s
Exponent. She was the mother of seven children,
four of whom preceded her to the great beyond, a
son and two daughters survive her, with a host of
grand-child[-]en and many sincere friends.
	The Funeral services were held on Tuesday the
16th inst., and were well attended. The Speakers
were, Elders—William McFadyen, Niels C. Ras-
mussen and Ex. Bishop James S. Jensen. Appro-
priate music was rendered by the Ward choir. A
large cortege followed the remains of our beloved
sister to their last resting pla[-]e. The grave was
dedicated by Elder James S. Jensen.
J. L.
TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	Sister Christina Liljenquist was born in Bar-
loise, Tyen. Denmark Jan. 13, 1822, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Sept.
18, 1852, and arrived in Utah Sept 13, 1857.
Among the many good things said at her funeral
we quote the following and would add she was a
constant subscriber to the Woman’s Exponent
and said on one occasion to the editor she would
willingly go without one meal a day rather than
do without it for it had been such a comfort to her.
GLOWING TRIBUTE FROM A LOVING FRIEND.
	"Sister Liljenquist, our beloved President, dear
friend and mother, whose body lies before us to-
day, came to Hyrum with her husband and family
in the summer of 1862. In 1863 her husband was
called as bishop of Hyrum, and her responsibilities
and cares were many She was my neighbor and [-]
learned to love and esteem her for her many good
qualities, for her faith and courage in times of trial
and poverty and her devotion to her husband and


children and kindness as a neighbor. On May 9th,
1869, Sister Liljenquist was called as counselor to
Sister Barnum in the Relief Society of Hyrum,
which position she filled with honor for two years,
when Sister Barnum resigned and Sister Liljen-
quist was sustained as president. She acted in this
capacity twenty years with great success and won
the love of her sisters and the gratitude of the
sick, afflicted and downcast She never turned the
needy away, but instead said, ‘If we empty onr
treasury we will get more.’ She was very humble
and her whole desire was to honor the priesthood
and serve the Lord, and through her humility and
faith she gained the confidence of her brethren
and sisters. Her charity never failed—she spoke
well of all. She was always ready and willing to
respond to every call from the priesthood. During
this time Sister Liljenquist was called on a mission
to work in the Logan temple, in company with her
husband, which mission she faithfully performed
for two years when they were honorably released.
She was beloved and kindly remembered by the
temple workers. She was honorably released from
her office as President of the Relief Society May
9th, 1889, on account of old age. Sister Liljenquist
was a faithful and true wife and mother and her
greatest pride was in her children and grand-
children. She has passed through many trials and
has been faithful and true, has fought the good
fight and will receive her reward with the faithful
in the celestial kingdom of God.”
	The members of the Relief Societies sent many
beautiful floral emblems, and one deserving espec-
ial mention was a design “Gates Ajar.”
	The entire community mourns the loss of this
good woman.


