THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF 
			WOMEN.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The days immediately succeeding the
adjournment of the annual executive of the
National Council of Women were so full of
work that it was quite impossible to send
a report of the interesting session to you.
Now it is too late for a report, but not too
late to convey to your readers information
for which the receipt of many letters from
many quarters shows us their writers are
waiting. Neither is it too late to record
the universal pleasure among those present
at the sessions of the executive conference.
With four important exceptions, all of the
national organizations belonging to the
council were represented by their presi-
dents and delegates or proxies and alter-
nates.

	As fraternal delegates, Miss Louise Lee
Hardin, editor of the Business Woman’s
Journal and president of the Business Wo-
men’s Club, and Mrs Bradford, the presi-
dent of the Colorado State Federation of
Clubs, were present. They were given the
courtesy of even the business sessions as 
auditors, and were both invited to speak at 
an evening session. Miss Hardin is a very 
enthusiastic advocate of the organization of 
business woman. She believes that the
pecuniary interests of women may be as
much fostered by such organizations as has

[Column 2]
their intellectual culture been by the ogan-
ization of literary clubs.

	Mrs. Swift’s presidency has thus far
been marked by great energy and zeal, and
the work planned for the coming year im-
plies that the council will have little leisure
until after the next triennial.
	The election of representatives for the
Berlin quinquennial was of primary impor-
tance. Prior to the election, Mrs. Swift
announced that she had asked the Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw to act as her proxy.
Although Mrs. Swift expects to be present
in Berlin, she felt it desirable to have a 
proxy on the ground so that, if for any 
reason she was not able to be present at
every session, the council should not go
unrepresented; and, moreover, she felt it 
desirable to have a proxy with whom she
could confer upon all matters upon which
the council will be called upon to act in its
executive capacity. The election resulted 
as follows:
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was elected by
acclamation the first delegate.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper her alternate.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, the representa-
tive in the National Council of the Florence
Crittenden Mission, and the vice-president
of the American Council is the other delegate.
	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, the president
of the National Association of Jewish Wo-
men, was chosen to be her alternate.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson was elected to
be the “speaking representative’’ of the
American Council.
	Mrs: Isabella Charles Davis to be her
alternate.
	A word of explanation of the phrase
“speaking representative’’ seems desirable.
At the Dresden session of the International
Executive last August, it was decided that
the second public meeting of the council at
the quinquennial at Berlin, which will oc-
cur on the evening of June 9th, shall be
devoted to the presentation of the national
councils constituting the International, and
that the program shall consist of an address
necessarily limited to six minutes in length,
by one representative from each of the affil-
iated councils. It was ordered that each
speaker should be invited to make a con-
densed statement of the characteristic fea-
tures of council work in her own country
and of the degree and manner in which the
work of her national council fosters the 
spirit of internationalism.
	Some criticism has been made of the time
limit set for these addresses, but with per-
haps twenty affiliated councils to hear from,
a program allowing six minutes to each 
will afford two hours of steady speaking.
Allowing for the opening and the closing 
and the necessary intervals between the
speeches, although the management may
be perfect and this inevitable loss of time
be reduced to a minimum, the entire pro-
gram will cover two hours and a half. To
be fair, each council must be permitted the
same time. Should it be urged that the
oldest councils, or the councils having the
largest membership, or those representing 
the largest territory, should be given more
time, one must be reminded that each and
all of these suggestions are opposed to the
council idea, the abounding value of which
rests in the fact, that the council respects
neither geographical extent nor numerical
strength, and that it is the desire to value
every council with exclusive reference to
the contribution of what is essentially char-
acteristic in its nationality.


