OBITUARY.
AT REST.
	Sister Lucinda Curtis passed away on the 26th
day of January, 1904. She was born in
Scarborough, Cumberland county, Maine, Janu-
ary 14, 1831. She was the daughter of Lydia
Smith and Dominicus Carter. They were with the
Saints in an early day, and passed through some
of the persecutions. Her mother died when she
was about seven years old; her father went to Far
West to see about burial things, but was chased
back by the mob, only escaping by the darkness
coming on, the mob stopping at the top of a hill,
while at the foot of the hill the tongue of Brother
Carter’s wagon had come down, and he was
obliged to stop and fix it; but the mob did not
know this, and he was able to escape. He re-
turned home, rolled his wife in a sheet, and thus
she was buried. I have heard the deceased relate
many other sad scenes that they passed through,
and declared their lives were only spared by the
power of God. Lucinda Carter and Ezra H.
Curtis were married December 18. 1846, at Mouut
Pisgah, Pottawatamie county, Iowa. Came to
Salt Lake in 1851, in Captain Horne’s company,
and on to Provo, where they made their home
most of the time until 1875, when they moved to
Sevier county, took up land and made them a new
home.
	Sister Carter was president of the Salina Relief
Society for three years, and was elected president
of the Aurora Relief Society March 18, 1883, and
served until February, 1901, and was released on
account of poor health. The writer of this sketch
worked with Sister Carter for eight years, and
can therefore bear testimony that she was a faith-
ful worker, never ceasing, never tiring, but boldly
struggling to the end. She was a woman of rare
ability in looking after the affairs of her society.
Sister Carter passed through mony hardships, be-
ing one of those called to go and settle Iron county
in an early day. She never became rich in this
world’s goods, but was ever willing to share with
those in need. She was one of those brave spirits
who were ever ready to assist in building up the
kingdom of God. We all learned to love her, and
feel to mourn her loss. There were few like her—
She had a paralytic stroke, and was unable to
speak from Wednesday until the following Tues-
day, when she passed peacefully away.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father has called her to
a higher sphere; therefore
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and cherish the
memory and strive to emulate her noble works.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her children, also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication, and be placed upon the rcords of the
Aurora Ward Relief Society.
