ample and heroism of President Horne,
paid a loving tribute to her worth and re-
gretted she could not be present with the

[Column 2]
sisters with whom she had labored so long.
Reports were given from 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
13th, 14th and 15th wards. Solo, ‘‘Some
Day,” by Sister Maggie C. Hull.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde of the
General Presidency, addressed the sisters;
referred to the good condition financially,
of the Society in the stake as manifest by
the reports given, felt the change in the
Stake would be a good thing, strengthen-
ing the Church, giving the young a chance
to come forward and take part, each one
developing himself or herself, as well as
helping one another; referred to the faith-
fulness of President Horne, how the Lord
had blessed her always in giving wise
counsel; ‘:we should learn to control our-
selves, we should set good examples; this
life is a proving place for us all; be careful
of our children in all things; be careful how
we judge one another, but be charitable to
each other; we should pray for our presi-
dent.”
	Reports, 16th,17th, 18th, 19th, 20th
wards. Meeting adjourned by singing
‘‘We thank Thee, O God,” etc. Prayer
by Sister Julia C Howe.
	Afternoon session, Counselor S. J Can-
non presiding. Singing, ‘‘Now let us re-
joice.” etc. Prayer, Sister Mary A. C.
Lambert. Singing, quartette; minutes
read and accepted. — Address from Presi-
dent M Isabella Horne to the sisters, read
by Sister Annie Wells Cannon,
PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE’S
			ADDRESS.
My Beloved Sisters:
	This conference is, as you all know, the
last conference of the Relief Society of what
is now the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and
the time seems to me, most opportune to
send you my heartfelt greeting, and to
express to you some of my feelings in the
form of an address, reminiscent of our past,
relating to our present and concerning our
future as Relief Society workers
	In some respects this is a sad occasion,
for it means a parting of our ways: Here-
after while still engaged, I hope, in the
same line of work, it will be under differ-
ent  fficers and different names, and we
will meet no more in the same capacity but
hope to meet with you all agaiu in what
ever stakes you may be. I feel attached to
you, every one, with the most tender feel
ings, and shall always look upon your work
with great interest, feeling towards the new
stakes like a mother to her children as they
leave the home and begin making homes
for themselves. There is mingled in my
heart, with the sadness of this occasion,
great joy and satisfaction when I recall the
wonderful work that has been done and the
great amount of good accomplished by you,
my sisters, in thi[-] organization.
	Too much praise cannot be given you for
your untiring labors. Out of nothing but
your own energy and hard work you have
builded granaries, storehouses and meeting-
houses. By your gentle miuisterings to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the

[Column 3]
needy your great helpfulness to the bishops
in building up their wards, mingled with
your wonderful testimonies of the faith,
you are indeed rich, and great will be your
reward and many the blessings that will
come to you for your labors in these re-
spects.
	Relief Society work has been a part of my
life for the past sixty years or more, for I
attended the meetings of the first Relief
Society organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith in Nauvoo and I wish to testify to
you, my sisters, that Joseph Smith was in-
spiried of God when he effected the organ-
zation of the Relief Society, and it is one
of the most important parts of the Church.
It is so recorded in the book of ‘‘The law
of the Lord.”
	At the meeting in the Tabernacle when
the general organization was made and Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow was made president,
Brother John Taylor, then the presiding
officer of the Church, had Brother L. John
Nuttall bring to the meeting this precious
book and read from its pages to those pres-
ent, thus showing that this organization of
the sisters was of great importance, for it
was ordained by the Lord; and it is not
sufficient, my sisters, that your names are
on the books as members only, and that
occasionally you respond when called upon
with some slight donation; for we will be 
judged from the books. Zion must work
most diligently, both spiritually and prac-
tically. It is the divine purpose of this or-
ganization that we may scatter the fruits of
our labors where they are needed.
	Twenty-six years ago last December,
while spending a few days at the home of
Sister Elizabeth Howard in Big Cotton-
wood, in company with Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and others, in a
preliminary way the organization of this
stake was talked over. I recall this instance
now, because Big Cottonwood, as well as
all the wards of the new stakes south of
the city, now Granite and Jordan were a
part of this stake, and there was then some-
years later in Salt Lake Stake more than
fifty branches.
	It was on the 22nd of December, 1877,
that a special meeting was called to organ-
ize the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society.
Bishop Edward Hunter was present with
others of the breth en. Sister Eliza R.
Snow presided. It was then I was called
to be your president and from that day to
the present it has been my most earnest de-
sire to encourage the sisters, both at our
conferences, which we have always held
every three mouths, and during my visits
to the different wards, to continue in th s
great, benevol nt work with all the energy
they could command
	In looking over our present condition we
have much indeed to be thankful for. Our
reports show us to be in a very prosperous
condition. Eight of our wards own Relief
Society halls, and eight own granaries. We
have considerable means on hand, both
cash and merchandise and I am pleased to
state are all th[-] time disbursing m ans to
help others. Through these organizations
we have emigrated many people to Zion,


