[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
GRANITE STAKE.
	On February 10th, 1904, the 14th quart-
erly conference of the Relief Society of 
Granite Stake was held in the Stake house,
President Emma S. Woodruff presiding.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer, Sister Sarah Gibson. Singing,
“Softly Beams.” Roll called and minutes 
of previous conference read and accepted.
Presidents reported: Sarah B. Gibson, Mary 
Belle Hamilton, Ann Eliza Neff, Annie 
Labrum, Patrina Jensen, Sarah A. Turn-
bow, Elizabeth Pixton, Emily Stevenson, 
all were reported as being in first class
order, and each one felt that her own was 
the best.
	The topics touched on were in relation 
to our Traveling sister missionaries, the 
special missionary work and the Temple 
work, also that the dead should be laid
away in a proper manner, that the poor as 
well as the rich should be clothed in the 
best of material, that they should have no
cause to reproach us when we meet them, 
that the sick, the poor and needy are 
tenderly cared for. The subject of wheat

[Column 2]
was touched upon, as also many other 
things. Sister Mary Boyle then sang very 
sweetly “O My Father.” Brother Charles 
Helm then made a few feeling remarks 
in relation to the aged in our midst and 
our duty to the afflicted ones, closed the 
morning session by singing “O, ye moun-
tains high.”
	Prayer by Brother James King.
	Afternoon session, 2 o’clock. After the 
preliminary exercises were attended to the 
officers were voted upon and sustained.
There were present on the stand President 
Frank Y. Taylor, Sister Annie T. Hyde
of the General Board, and all the local
authorities, with the exception of Counsel-
or Katharine Brockbank, who was unable 
to attend on account of sickness.
	Two beautiful selections were rendered 
on the violin by little Miss Agnes Clive.
President Frank Y. Taylor then gave the 
sisters a few suggestions, said we should 
plan our work ahead and do everything in 
a systematic manner and with order, that 
we should try to implant within every 
heart a desire to pay tithing and to observe 
the Word of Wisdom, and keep all the laws
of God. Said “When we are fully con-
verted to all the principles of the Gospel it 
will be no trial for us to observe all these 
things. Admonished all present against
the evils of speaking against the Lord’s
anointed or any in authority over us. We 
should not allow it around our fireside or 
at table or anywhere else.
	A solo was sung by Sister Maggie Hull,
entitled “Let he that is without sin cast 
the first stone.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde encouraged 
the sisters to faithfully perform all their 
duties, that the sweet influences of the 
Lord would always be with them, we 
should be particularly mindful of the 
stranger within our gates, and especially 
the new converts.
	Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B. Win-
der then rendered a duet, “Sometime,
Somewhere.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff and Coun-
selor Mary P. Young each made a few re-
marks and thanked all who had helped to 
make our conference a success and felt 
that it had been a profitable one.
	We desire to have it known that a whole
family and one other person has been con-
verted through the efforts of our Relief So-
ciety sisters.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Secretary Armeda S. Young.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the St.
Joseph Stake was held at Central ward 
meeting house, Nov. 6, 1903, President 
Elizabeth Layton presiding. After the 
opening exercises President Layton said 
she was disappointed, as no doubt the con-
gregation was also, in the members of the 
Central Board failing to arrive in time for 
our conference, but we were honored by the 
presence of President and Sister Udall of 
the St. John’s Stake, Eliza Tenny of 
Dublan, Mexico, the Stake Presidency, also 
members of the High Council. Eight 
branches out of ten were satisfactorily re-
ported.
	Aid Emma Coleman believed the sisters
were, as a rule, trying to live their relig-
ion. Without the Spirit of the Lord we 
should be unable to bear up under the 
duties and trials of mothers. President 
William Johnson: “The Relief Society has


the greatest mission of any organization in
the Church. We should discourage card
playing and profanity.”
	Eliza Tenny: "There is much for us as
officers and members of the Relief Society
to do. The Stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juarez Stake get out plans for
the mothers work and all the local organ-
izations in the stake work in unison. The
Saints have had a hard struggle in Mexico
but the Lord has opened the way for us to
secure our land.” Solo by Stake Counselor
Olive Kimball.
	President Udall rejoiced in meeting with
the Saints of this stake. "Sisters, you do
not have an equal chance with the brethren
unless you improve your opportunities.
The battle is not to the strong, or the race
to the swift, but to those who endure faith-
fully to the end. May the Lord bless our
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters, that
they may accomplish the work assigned
them.”
	Counselor Salina Phillips reported her
visit to Salt Lake City and the General R.
S. Conference, which was a grand success
and spiritual treat. Also read an article
from the Juvenile Instructor entitled "Race
Suicide.” Sister Udall, President of the
R. S. of St. John’s Stake felt built up and
strengthened by attending this conference,
we should show by our works that we do
appreciate the blessings we enjoy.
	At the afternoon session all enjoyed a
rare treat in a lecture given by Aid Sa-
mantha Folly on “Mothers’ Work,” fol-
lowed by a quartette by President E. Lay-
ton assisted by Lottie Larson, Clare Brink-
erhoff and Cynthia Layton.
	President Andrew Kimball gave a dis-
course on various duties of the sisters and
the brethren also. Explained “mothers’
work” and urged all to pursue this course
diligently. Recommended the singing of a
hymn by the family before morning prayer.
Home influence should be such that child-
ren will love to be at home.
	One of Sister E. R. Snow’s poems, “An
Address to Parents,” was rendered by Sar-
ah Webb.
	President Layton believed all felt renewed
spiritually. The sisters should donate
every month to the society, be it ever so
little. Thought the Prophet Joseph set a
worthy example to the brethren by his do-
nation at the organization of the R. S and
asserting that all his charitable acts from
that time on should be through that organ-
ization.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


