D.R. MEETINGS.
WASHINGTON’S BITHDAY.	
	The Daughters of the Revolution met
Wednesday, February 22, in the EXPONENT
office, at 11 a.m., to commemorate the an-
niversary of General George Washington's
birthday. The Regent, Mrs. Isabel M. W.
Sears, presided. Each one present brought
some sentiment, original or selected, or
spoke a few words as a tribute to the mem-
ory of one whom all true Americans delight
to honor; the stars and stripes were dis-
played conspicuously and other decorations
adorned the walls of the room. Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, herself an enthusiastic
Virginian, felt proud of her state as the
home of this great and good man, and eulo-
gized his life and labors; at the close of
the reading of sentiments and remarks by
others, including some visitors, Mrs. Mary
McNaughtan and Mrs. Mary Smith Wim-
mer, also Mrs. C. Willis Schow, Mrs. C.
H. Y. Spencer read a poem on General
Washington, written by Miss Josephine
Spencer, which added greatly to the spirit
of the occasion. The meeting opened and
closed with prayer.

	On Wednesday, March 17, the ladies of
the D. R. held their regular monthly meet-
ing, at 3 p.m., in Room 509 Templeton
Building. The Regent in the chair. After
the opening exercises and reading of min-
utes, considerable business was transacted,
and the program of the day carried out.
Mrs. John Henry Smith gave a very enter-
taining and valuable paper on Alexander
Hamilton, which was greatly appreciated,
and she was followed by Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith on Aaron Burr; this paper brought
out many striking attributes of Aaron
Burr’s character hitherto unknown to the


ladies of the Society. Mrs. John D. Spen-
cer read a letter from Mr. Burr’s daughter
to her father, showing her devotion to and
admiration of this man of destiny, reveal-
ing the strong affection between father and
child. Mrs. Spencer also read some ex-
tracts from Blennerhassett, showing phases
of the man’s character entirely different to
the general opinion. The discussion of the
papers was quite edifying. Adjourned un-
til April 16, to convene at Mrs. T. G. Web-
ber’s, 131 Second Sireet. Prayer by the
chaplain.


