ROMAN TEA PARTY.
	Those who know Mrs. Gaffney, late
president of the N. C. W. of the U. S.,
will be pleased to see the following notice
of a five o'clock Tea given by her recently
in the historic city of Rome, where she is
spending the winter, her daughter, Miss
Jayta, is with her there. Miss Humph-
reys is the granddaughter of the famous
late Dr. Humphreys who visited Salt Lake
in the spring of 1898 and wrote a book en-
titled "A Flight in Spring." His little
granddaughter was with him on that jour-
ney.
—Ed.
	"A recent issue of L'Italie, a leading
daily of Rome, contains an account of a
social affair in which Americans well
known in Salt Lake participated. It was a
five o'clock tea given by Madame St. John
Gaffney at the Hotel Quirinal. The
charming hostess did the honors with the
most exquisite amiability, assisted by
Chevalier S[--] T. John Gaffney and Miss
Humph[--]ys. Those present were according
to the Roman newspaper, 'the Cardinaux
Seraphin et Vincent Vannutelli, Mgr.
Staniero, protonot aire apostolique; M. de
Navenne, minister of France; the Countess
Mlle Bevilacqua; M. de Jagow, conseiller
de l'ambassade d'Allemague; M. Multodo,
conseiller de l'ambassade d' Espague pres
le Saintsiege; le consul general des Etats
Unis et Mme. de Castro, la baronne Coletti,
le major Edwards, attache militaire de l'
ambassade des Etats Unis avec Miss Ed-
wards, Mrs. Aldrich, M. F. D. et Miss
Crimmins. Mlle. Vannutelli, Mrs. Magee,
Mrs. Stewart, M. et Mrs. Simmons, Mrs.
et Miss Robinson, Mrs. et Miss Mac Cor-
nick, le major et me Serra, Mrs. Vedder,
Mrs. Chester Wecks. don Lelio Orsini, le
compt Bojani, le pere Whitmee, le marquis
Faa di Brnno, le comte Oddi Baglioni, le
comte Gnoli, le marquis Mac Swiney, le
marquis Maestri Molinari, M. Galileo Van-
nutelli, le comte Falconieri di Carpegna,'
and a large number [-]f diplomats and young
people of fashion."


Among all the great people who have
been born in February, Mrs. Isabella
Beecher Hooker is one of the most notable.
On Monday, Feb. 22, she attained the age
of eighty-two and the fact was duly regarded
by the citizens of Hartford, where she has
lived for fifty-four years. Mrs. Hooker is
the last of the distinguished sons and
daughters of Rev. Lyman Beecher, D. D.,
and all of those who gathered lovingly
around Mrs. Hooker at the family banquet
were of the younger generations, children
and grandchildren, nephews and nieces.
Mrs. Hooker is still in active suffrage work
and says she feels as if she should live to 
be a hundred years old. 			Ex.


