[Column 1]
ANNUAL MEETING, BANQUET AND BALL
		GRANITE STAKE.
	On the 17th of March of this present
month the Relief Society officers of Granite
Stake celebrated the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Illinois, in a very happy way.
Committees of ladies had been previously
appointed to take charge of special matters
and President Emma S. Woodruff and her
very efficient Board superintended the
whole, and it proved a grand success in the
entire proceedings from first to last.
	About six or seven hundred of the peo-
ple of the several wards assembled in the
large meeting room. President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding, both her counselors
were on the stand, also the secretary, treas-
urer and some invited guests, President
Frank Y Taylor and Counselor Edwin
Bennion. The stands were prettily decor-
ated with flowers and presented a hand-
some appearance. Several veteran sisters
were brought forward from the audience
and given seats of honor on the platform in
full view of audience. Sisters Margaret
P. Young, Elizabeth Pixton (since deceased)
Relief C. Atwood and Sarah B. Gibson.
	Meeting opened with singing by the con-
gregation, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Patriarch John Cook, singing,
“Redeemer of Israel” President Emma
S. Woodruff made a brief but suitable ad
dress of welcome, referred to the day six-
ty-two years before when the Prophet
Joseph Smith had organized the first wom-
an’s society of which we have any knowl-
edge with a few sisters, eighteen in all and
from that small beginning had grown the
great socety with branches all over the
world. The speaker expressed her pleas-
ure in seeing so many assemb'ed and wel-
comed them in a very happy manner.
	A few remarks by other speakers and ex-
pressions of good will, and a duet sweetly
sung by two little girls, Buelah Woodruff
and Cathie McLelland, without accompani-
ment, as there had been an accident to the

[Column 2]
organ, this caused some changes also in
the musical program.
	Sister E. B. Wells referred to the little
meeting held in Masonic Lodge Room where
the society was born, and how magnific-
ently it had grown and spread abroad since
that day. Sister Wells eulogized the lead-
ers of the movement, some who had passed
away and others who were still living;
mentioned President Bathsheba W. Smith
as the only one now alive who had been
present at that memorable meeting. Sister
Armeda Snow Young recited in a very
pathetic and dignified manner the poem
composed by Sister Eliza R. Snow on the
Death and Funeral ceremonies of President
Brigham Young.
	President Frank Y. Taylor made some
interesting remarks upon the labors of the
sisters and praised their efforts and com-
mended their ministrations among the needy
and distressed in the various wards in the
stake; realized they had been a blessing
to the bishops and the authorities; blessed
them in their labors for the future and en-
couraged them to persevere
	Counselor Edwin Bennion spoke a few
minutes and urged the sisters to perfect
union that more might be accomplished,
felt to enjoy the spirit of the gathering of
the people on such occasions, thought we
must be one and come into a unity of the
faith in order to make greater progress.
	Sister Wealthy Richards Clark, one of the
aids in Davis Stake, expressed her interest in
Relief Society work and felt she could learn
something about mothers’ work in visiting
Granite Stake.
	Meeting adjourned, until March 17, 1905,
after singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”. Dismissed with prayer by
brother Helm.
	The company repaired to the banquet
hall in the room below and the scene was
gratifying in the extreme especially to the
hungry ones. Tables loaded with good
things were set the whole length of the
room, snowy linen, china and glass with
appetizing viands and a profusion of flower-
ing plants upon the tables, presented a
striking picture, glowing with brilliant
color. Here Mrs. George M. Cannon,
chairman of refreshment committee, with
her numerous aids in white aprons, etc.,
had displayed their artistic taste in the way
of ornamentation. The curtain over the
platform at the east end of the hall was
raised and the broad platform utilized for
singers, organ, etc.—in place of footlights,
pots of flowers, bright with red crepe paper
for color effect to correspond with the table 
decorations.
	When the numerous guests were seated
at the tables and all was ready, Sister
Woodruff, hostess of the occasion, called
upon President Taylor to ask the blessing
upon the food, and while the people were
partaking of the bounties prepared for their
delectation by the good sisters of the Relief
Society, Prof Stephens and some of the
local musical talent entertained them with
songs and instrumental musical selections.
The Pratt boys, sons of Mathoni Prart,
little Agnes Clive, a veritable musical gen-
ius gave some of her sweetest tunes on the
violin, Miss Sumrherhayes also sang one or
two sweet songs, Miss Snow, of Manti,
gave a dramatic recitation of “Judith”
which was listened to with rapt attention.
	The arrangements for the enjoyment of
all invited were well planned and carried
out. Sister Woodruff and those, who assisted
should be heartily congratulated upon the


success of so large an undertaking. Six
hundred people sat at the banquet, perhaps
more, for the entire company were feasted. 
It was a mammoth undertaking but the 
Relief Society sisters are accustomed to
doing things liberally.
	Late in the afternoon the guests of hon-
or, Presidents Smith and Winder, who had
been expected, arrived and were heartily 
welcomed by the remaining company, 
though many of those from a distance had 
gone home disappointed because of their 
non-arrival.
	In the evening the young people of the 
stake, with a few of the older ones partici-
pated in dancing in the amusement hall
in the same building. President Smith
was among the number who enjoyed the 
dancing, and entered into the festivities of 
the occasion with his usual buoyancy of 
spirit, and desire to make others happy.
	The day was a red-letter one for Granite 
Stake and it will long be remembered by
those who enjoyed the pleasure of the 
meeting, the feasting and the dancing, one 
or all. These festive gatherings are restful
to the mind and a decided change from the 
humdrum of daily vocations which men 
and women pursue in the journey of life, 
and a good way to emphasize a day which 
has become so dear to the women of Zion,
as to be kept the world over.


