LADY WARWICK AND DAUGHTER.
	Rarely would a wedding in “high life”
abroad concern the readers of this paper,
but an exception would certainly be made
in the recent marriage of Lady Marjorie to
Viscount Helmsley. Marjorie Gervile, as
her mother wished her to be known during
her school days, is the daughter of the Coun-
tess of Warwick, long regarded as the
most beautiful woman in England, and
known the world over for her participa-
tion in industrial and social reforms. As
owner and editor of an agricultural paper,
speaker at socialist congresses, founder of


trades, schools and shops for young women
and in many other ways, she has identified
herself with the interests of the workers.
The latest of the philanthropic schemes is
the purchase of the “Saracen’s Head,” an
inn near her country place in Essex, which
she has now converted into a temperance
tavern, it is said greatly to the benefit of
the surrounding country as it was the only
place in the country where liquor could be
procured.
In the education of her daughter Lady
Warwick has proceeded according to
the same democratic ideals that she advo-
cates for others. Marjorie was sent to the
public schools in childhood and allowed to
play with village children, while at her
home she had a garden and poultry to
care for, a Jersey cow to milk, and was
taught practical dairying and agriculture
and all outdoor sports. Lady Marjorie was
presented at court last year and was at
once regarded as the prettiest peeress in
the kingdom and now she is married to the
heir of one of the historic earldoms of Eng-
land with all the pomp and circumstance
befitting her ancestral home, grand old
Warwick Castle, which no person visits
England without seeing if possible. King
Edward sent the bride a valuable present
with an autograph letter with best wishes
for her happiness, and in this we all may
join, and those who remember Lady War-
wick’s participation in the reception given
by her sister, the Duchess of Sutherland,
to the International Council of Women will
give the heartiest amen.	Ex.


