What may I do to the environment which will stimulate and encourage regular attendance? 4. How may I plan and organize the subject matter and materials of instruction so as to gain and hold the interest and attention of the group? 5. How shall I guide the class activities and so stimulate interest and attention? What may I do to secure individual and group participation in class activities? How may I discover the interests, possibilities and purposes of the individual and the group? How may I guide in the selection of those which will offer opportunity for richest experience and be most fruitful? How may we make the activities sufficiently comprehensive to give each learner a chance to make his contributions to the group? How may we vary activities and so add to the interest? How may we socialize the group so as to interest them in the common good? How may we encourage, stimulate and build confidence in the diffident and retiring member? How may we check the garrulous without giving offense? How create a friendly attitude of give and take? How develop a willingness and desire to share responsibility for the success of the organization? How utilize constructively the talent of the group? How may I receive suggestions, criticism, and contributions graciously? RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE How may I radiate a friendly happy spirit of cooperation and helpfulness? What may we do to make this work lead on to something better? How may we leave the learners eager for further understanding? What are these women thinking about, worrying about, wondering about? How may we provide experience from which the class may draw lessons, facts and ideas? How may we best develop desirable attitudes, ideals and appreciation? When we have settled upon the goals or objectives we are then brought face to face with these troublesome issues: What to teach. How to organize this for teaching. How to proceed to teach it. All of the above must be planned by a teacher who knows her class and who knows definitely what fundamental ideas she wishes to develop. The first of "What to Teach" is well outlined in the magazine, but the second and third, "How to Organize this for Teaching" and "How to Proceed to Teach it," should be given prayerful, thoughtful consideration in fitting it to your own particular group. It is possible and almost inevitable to fail in presenting a lesson precisely as organized and worked out by another even though that lesson may succeed admirably when taught by the person responsible for working it out and organizing it. We have all listened through lessons which have been nothing more than reading to the class from the manual or guide that which every member of the class was perfectly capable of reading for herself. Model, or type lessons as given in guides and manuals, may be excellent if used as suggestions, but fall flat and lifeless when taken over bodily and taught just as outlined by another. We must alter them to fit the group. The study of the subject matter, selection of materials, and the experience gained through organizing, helps to give it life and vitality. It is through these same activities that the teacher becomes enthused and capable of inspiring her group. How then shall we go about organizing materials of instruction? What is involved in getting ready to teach a course? I should suggest the following: 1. Educational principles selected from your educational philosophy. 2. Inventories: a. Of the learner (accumulative) (a) Intellectual background of learners (b) Social and economic background (c) Special Interests b. Community (a) What are the vital things in the community as library, etc. c. What kind of people tend to come into the course. 3. What are your goals. A. Persistent problems We may need many generalizations to solve any persistent problem. B. Basic generalizations that one has to use to solve persistent problems. (Must be based upon fact.) The following are some of those things that the teacher must think about: What do I want to accomplish? What are the fundamental ideas I am trying to fix regarding the subject matter? How will I give them? I must be concerned with how learning takes place. How may I arouse interest? What materials will I need to carry forward these experiences in order to achieve the goals? Let us not forget that organization is the secret of success in teaching. The heart of any course is a few basic ideas around which the course is built. Perhaps you may agree with me then that the methods of good teachers are: 1. Have some definite objective (goals or persistent problems). 2. Establish the identity of the object with the teacher and learner. 3. Interest the learners. Interest arises from need, from instinct, from curiosity. Success in learning is appealing and tends to arouse interest with adults the same as with children?around problems they meet. 4. There is a personal factor in this problem of interest. 5. Establish relationships between what is being done and how it is to be used. 6. Interest can be established by methods and technique. The content to be taught and the materials of instruction to be used are of real significance. A broad flexible grasp of content or subject matter is needed by the teacher. She must know far more concerning it than she can hope to teach in order that she may be thoroughly enthused and so inspire, interest and enthuse her group. When the teacher is thoroughly informed concerning the subject matter of the problem under discussion she can anticipate the various issues that will arise and have ready the necessary references, and guide the discussion so that it follows important lines instead of being sidetracked on minor or irrelevant issues. In other words the teacher knows in advance what questions are apt to arise and which problems will need clarification. Only as the problems are attacked enthusiastically and courageously will instruction increase in breadth and excellence. Teaching means educating for, and training in, and not merely telling about. We must make our selection of subject matter in terms of persistent problems. A persistent problem, as I think of it, is an integrating core or center?it provides for relationships and we know that ideas must be understood through relationship to other ideas. The learner should be helped to generalize his experience, to discover old meanings in new situations and to see the common element in a variety of situations. Generalization expresses the natural goal of instruction in any topic, for it works a measure of economy and efficiency from the standpoints alike of observation, memory and thought. Teaching and learning is an active process moving forward to establish relationships between the learner and the subject matter to be learned. The mastery of materials combined with sympathy and insight and sincere devotion both to our ideals and to the best interests of those who come to us for instruction and guidance, may carry us forward even though we are dealing with the most intricate of human problems and even though the mind is still the most incomprehensible thing in the universe. An artist teacher has: 1. A thoroughgoing mastery of the materials she teaches. 2. A keen appreciation of the significance of these materials. 3. An ardent desire to have others RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE know and appreciate these materials. 4. A sympathetic understanding of the difficulties which the learner will encounter in mastering the materials. My next question very naturally is: What should be the method of procedure in attaining or achieving the goal or objective? Many things enter in. Perhaps the most important single thing for us to keep in mind is the fact that "We must always adapt procedure to the needs of the occasion." Procedure depends upon conditions. (That which is good under certain conditions may be impossible in a different situation.) The learner is the center of gravity, the most important factor, and it is through his reactions and activities that our teaching is judged. Because of this, it is sometimes thought that the teacher is of less and less importance?as a matter of fact, thorough teacher preparation is more and more necessary, and effective teaching is increasingly difficult. Clearness of one's own ideas is the first step in successful teaching. Perhaps you may have observed that nothing has been said of lesson types. The reason is my conviction that with the preparation and background outlined above, the lesson is, with advantage, much more apt to be a combination of several types rather than any one exclusively. A pronounced characteristic of our best modern schools is the tendency to give decreasing attention to prescribed forms of activity for the teacher, and to focus it upon those of the pupil. I trust that I have not painted a picture too uncomely and discouraging. If I but dared to whisper to you the many hours, months and years that I have spent working, and weeping and praying in my endeavor to teach effectively and yet failing to achieve my ideal there isn't one among you who could possibly lose heart. You have been chosen as leaders in your respective organizations because those in authority believe in your integrity, industry and ability to do good. May God bless you in your worthy endeavors.
MISS HAZEL BROCKBANK Supervisor of Primary Education, State of Utah
My assignment this morning is a very complex one for me, that of being your representative, your voice, in the discussion of this splendid paper that has been given by Miss Brown, who has been my teacher and my friend. I am going to discuss her paper, trying to give you a key to it through six key words, (1) Philosophy; (2) Relationships; (3) Purposes; (4) Subject Matter; (5) Method; (6) Spirituality. In the philosophy that you and I must have as religious educators, we must consider two approaches to education. One is the old traditional type of approach, the type of class that you and I have attended in school and in the Church organizations, where our teachers stood up as a teacher?as a "pourer-in" of information. We were receptacles to receive that information that flowed from that teacher. Was there thinking done, fellow-teachers? In many cases there is no thinking done. To again quote Dr. Dewey: "There is no teaching unless there is learning." That is the modern problem facing us as teachers. If we are going to follow that old traditional type of teaching, take the manual and read it to your listeners, I venture to say that not a great deal of learning is going to take place. Now, the other is the new approach, that I know we are trying to put over in our Church organizations, as we are in school work. The problem of today is how to stimulate thinking on the part of listeners or pupils. This new approach is not the type of text book, or manual teaching, but is stimulating thought. Regard pupils not as receptacles into whom to pour information, but look at them as thinking Latter-day Saints, who possess thinking power and judgment. They can analyze, their minds are active, just as yours is. The first problem in this philosophy we would like to see the teachers of our Church get, is that we think of individuals as thinkers who can evaluate, who are active, and who can contribute to the class work. The second problem is that of relationships. There is no class where there is not confidence and a spirit of cooperation. The group should have a spirit of helpfulness, of really carrying on with the teacher. Educational experts say that the most important thing is that of relationship; that a happy class room is really a situation for learning. We must check on this three-fold relationship?the teacher-pupil, the pupil-teacher and the pupil-pupil relationship. Have you, in your personality as a teacher, inspired your pupils to really make a contribution, or with your language and your preparation have you made them fearful, as if they would crawl into a shell and not answer questions, or give