LESSON DEPARTMENT 705 Literature (Third Week in January) LIFE AND LITERATURE POETRY "One thought ever at the fore? That in the Divine ship, the World, breasting Time and Space All the peoples of the globe together sail, sail the same -voyage, are bound to the same destination." ?Whitman. A? A singer Man has made his most truthful and most lasting expression. Pulsating with the joy of living he has sung of the things of Nature: the beauty of the blossom, the charm of the sea, the music of the wind. Awed with the mysteries of Life he has chanted songs of praise to the Creator of the universe. Always in his singing he has remembered his intense emotions and feelings as he has meditated upon the greatest problem of Life, the destiny of Man. The products of Man's hands pass away, kings, thrones, wealth, and dominions; Man's songs alone remain undestroyed by the countless years. In poetry, "the most perfect speech of Man," is recorded Man's deathless thoughts during his high adventure, to bring into perfect harmony, the demands of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit; and thus prepare himself for his greatest destiny. The Poet's Way "Poetry is a criticism of life. The true end of poetry is, like religion, to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Of what does the poet sing? As the "inner vision" flashes upon his soul tuned to the infinite, he finds his inspiration. The source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways: To Wordsworth it was "the spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes upon life seeking the heroic, the beautiful, or the moral, he finds a message waiting expression. It may be a tragic story-relic of bygone days, a field of daffodils, a fieldmouse disturbed in its nest by a plowman, a man with a hoe "bowed with the weight of centuries," a miner down in the dark crying "for a handful of stars," a pallid child in a flower factory "'winding stems of roses," white curtains at a window in a squalid tenement, "white prayers of a little mother." How does the poet sing? Some poets sing as the nightingale sings. So it was with Robert Burns. A peasant born in a cottage, proud of his plowing, all of a sudden without warning, he breaks into exquisite song. Burns sang of his love in "Highland Mary," and of his humanity in ?To a Field Mouse." Some poets schooled in the classic patterns of poetry, sing great themes in the grand style. Since the days of Homer there have been no more worthy singers in the Attic pattern than John Milton in "Paradise Lost," and Matthew Arnold in "Sohrab and Rustuim." Some poets sing to the music of their own heart throbs making new patterns to carry their messages to mankind as did Whitman, Markham, and Masefeld. Thus have the great themes of life been poetically treated: the permanent passions of mankind?love, religion, patriotism, humanitarianism, hate, revenge, ambition, the conflict between free will and fate, the rise and fall of empires. Life-experience is the material out of which all great poetry is made. As such expression it becomes "a criticism of life," as a record, an interpretation, or a prophecy as it presents in turn life as it appears, as it explains or interprets life, or as it reveals the inner spiritual meaning of life. The poet is a creator not merely because he is receptive to inspiration: the poet is also a craftsman. He must be equipped by training to give form to his idea, mood, or inspiration. Equally significant is the truth that craftsmanship alone never created a great poem. The advice of Edwin Markham, dean of American Poetry, to poets of this age is valuable to the reader as well as to the creator. "Read constantly the great masters, dwell with loving hearts upon their great lines, their great passages, their great poems. The kingdom of song can be taken only by industry, by patient resolve led on by the wings of inspiration." The poets of today have received from the masters of the past great gifts. Through the ages poetic patterns have evolved narrative, lyric, reflective, dramatic and epic patterns. Whether poetry is "reason in her most exalted mood" or the "transfiguration of the real into the ideal" it must do more than merely conform to the traditional poetic tasks of the past, it must "open new windows to the soul of men." "To judge the poets is only the faculty of poets," but to appreciate the works of a poet is the privilege of the reader who will adjust his perception of life to the way of the poet. Wordsworth, Man and Poet William Wordsworth, the great English poet, was an adventurer seeking an inner vision of joy in the realms of Nature and the human heart. The poet was born in 1770 at Cockermouth, Cumberland. A dreamy moody youth with a violent temper gave his mother misgivings as to his happy adjustment to life. He was, however, early deprived of her benign influence, and at the age of thirteen he was left an orphan. The river by his home was his first playmate, Skiddaw's peak his early inspiration, and the glow-worm's fairy light his curiosity. In his boyhood he was vividly aware of an inner wonder at Nature's workmanship. Schooldays, first at Hawkshead and then at Cambridge, provided a new world, the world of books. A young man with no settled interests in life in a burst of enthusiasm, Wordsworth: threw in his lot with the French Revolutionists. To the conflict Wordsworth took his romantic admiration of the past of France, a storied past of chivalry and institutions. There he found the conflict to be caused by the injustice that bowed down the peasants into serfdom and caused an awful waste of human talents and energy. The horrors of the Reign of Terror shook his faith in humanity. His own waywardness of life while in France shook his faith in himself. Finally, disillusionment and remorse directed his return to England. It was to his sister Dorothy that Wordsworth owed his rehabilitation to wholesome living. Unobtrusively she led him to a new understanding of self and a new outlook upon the world. The poet pays tribute to his sister in the lines: "She gave me eyes, she gave me ears, And humble cares, and delicate fears, A heart, the fountain of sweet tears, And love, and thought, and joy.