NOW, IN THE TWILIGHT OF MY LIFE paint their flowers so that one can almost see the stems sway in the wind and the peony's leaves waft away in the breeze. One artist says he can't paint the perfume of the flower and so he paints the very soul of it and hands it to us. What joy he gives to his associates! President Brigham Young tells us 165 to beautify our homes with our own handiwork, and what better wav could we decorate them than with our art work? Now, in the twilight of my life, this chosen hobby of painting has brought many happy hours to me. When I feel lonely I have only to get out my paints and brushes or study my art books, and I am soon lost to the world in my work. A Great Sradition—She American llational Red Cross Edwin H. Powers Director, Office of Public Information N almost every corner of the earth, the Red Cross is recognized as a symbol of the good neighbor. It may represent you—through your membership—in helping other people in time of trouble. Or it may represent warm-hearted people, whom you do not know, rallying to your aid In an emergency. There was a time in our early history when people counted entirely on direct help from their neighbors or close relatives to see them through periods of misfortune. Across-the-fence sharing of adversity. Today life is more complex. Phere of great cities. Our way of life stems largely from that personal, Many of us live in the impersonal atmosMuch of our population shifts back and forth across the country, hardly finding time to get acquainted with new neighbors. The protective unity of families is weakened as individual members scatter from the home community. But people have not changed. In time of trouble, they need assurance that they are not alone. To help provide this assurance, millions of Americans turn to their Red Cross. Because they join and serve, they are able to extend a friendly hand to those who most need help. We see that help in the millions of pints of blood freely given through the Red Cross for those who would die without it. We see it when a New England fisherman who lost his boat in a hurricane is given another so he can earn a living for his family. We see it in emergency help to the family of a serviceman who is away from home. When the Red Cross answers the call of those in need, Americans keep alive one of our great traditions—friendly, neighborly help to our fellow men. This is an annual appeal for good will and help. Join the Red Cross and answer the 1955 call to service. &ighty-One Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1873 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" Note: The heading "