Eighty-One Years Ago" is substituted this month for the regular title "Sixty Years Ago," since no issues of the Woman's Exponent were published during the month of March 1894. 'The Woman's Exponent began publication in June 1872, and the following excerpts are from the issue of the following March. A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL: The women of Utah to-day oecupy a position which attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and women everywhere. They are engaged in the practical solution of some of the greatest social and moral problems of the age.... Who are so well able to speak for the women of Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others."' For these reasons, and that women may help each other by the diffusion of knowledge and information possessed by many and suitable to. All, the publication of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by, controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been commenced.... Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best organized benevolent institution of the age.... Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from her numerous duties. —Louise L. Greene, Editor FLORENCE Beneath high, villa-dotted hills That in succession rise Like rich gemm'd parapets around; The lovely Florence lies. The Arno, broad and gentle stream, That flows meand'ring through, Divides, but in unequal parts, The city platt in two I see you, Florence, all the while, So beautiful and gay; I ask, is this your common dress, Or, this your holiday?... —Fliza R. Snow From Florence, Italy ADVERTISEMENT: H. Wallace has the best, largest and purest stock of confectionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies to purchase. RELIEF SOCIETY IN TOOELE: I believe our Society in 'Tooele can compare favorably with that of any other settlement. It is now nearly three years since we were organized, and we have been trying ever since to do our best. We have excellent meetings. The sisters are alive to their dutics, and I believe will accomplish much good. —Mrs. Mary Meiklejohn, President Page 166 MABRJORIE M. McKINLEY has been awarded the 1954 Mary Swartz Rose fellowship by the American Dietetic Association for her outstanding success as a teacher and administrator in the field of institution management. She is the author of numerous publications on food costs, meal planning, and nutrition. She will continue _ her graduate work toward the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Institution Management and Home Economics Education at Iowa State College. OMEN are playing a growing role in the field of medical research—a fact that was _ recently underscored when the Life Insurance Medical Research Fund awarded a total of more than $31,000 in grants and fellowships for heart disease research to half a dozen women in 1954. VIRGINIA CROCHERON GILDERSLEEVE, former Dean of Barnard College, student of international affairs, and the only woman appointed by President Roosevelt to the United Nations delegation at the San Francisco Conference, relates in Many a Good Crusade, the story of her ideals and accomplishments in the "educational liberation of women."