NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 567 After a fruitless effort to secure a portion of farm land upon which to produce wheat, these energetic women secured a lease on the town baseball field, where they now have a fine stand of wheat. It is estimated that the yield will be 40 bushels per acre. The grain will be cut by a self-binder and gathered by the women themselves for threshing. Jordan Stake. The women of Jordan have been very much interested in the demonstrations in the canning of fruits, meats and vegetables which have been held in their stake, and as a result of these demonstrations they are busily engaged in preserving food. Some of the wards have planted wheat while others have planted potatoes and beans. Salt Lake Stake. The Salt Lake stake is making every effort to be well prepared in the various wards for the care of the needy during the coming winter. The aim is to store provisions sufficient to carry on the regular charity work in the most efficient manner. Each ward is storing away canned fruit, jellies and jams, as well as sugar, flour and other groceries. One ward has already a supply of 60 quarts of fresh fruit, three dozen glasses of jelly and a dozen pint jars of jam. In addition this ward has purchased 100 bottles to be filled with peaches and tomatoes. Another ward has on hand 144 bottles to be filled with peaches and tomatoes. All of the wards in the stake are collecting fruit for the State Fair Exhibit. The Salt Lake stake board has put up 96 cups of jelly and 6 gallons of apple butter. One ward has made a special effort to collect old clothing, which after it is cleaned and repaired will be folded away for future use. After the public exhibit made by this stake is over, all the food supplies will be held for distribution to the needy in the coming hard winter season. North Weber Stake. The North Weber stake Society early in the season appointed a conservation committee with the leader of the Home Economics Society as chairman to oversee the canning of fruit and vegetables. This energetic chairman, Mrs. Florence M. Caine, secured from the U. S. Bureau of Agriculture, for distribution among the wards. 1000 copies each of the bulletins on home canning and home drying. Long before the fruit was ripe, talks were given in all the wards on the subjects of canning and drying fruits and vegetables, and samples of canned and dried fruits and vegetables were shown. Each ward purchased sugar, bottles 
 ;md glasses, and was ready for the fruit as soon as it was in season. The stake committee made an effort to provide fruit for all the wards. Societies located where fruit and vegetables were abundant divided with others who had little or no fruit, the collection and distribution being made by the stake committee. The fruit put up by each society is the property of the individual society. The stake board was also energetic in the work and has succeeded in conserving 3,500 quarts for its emergency cupboard. Mrs. Caine is securing from the Government for fall helps, bulletins on the food value of fruits and vegetables and other varieties of foods. Weber Stake. The Weber stake Relief Society board is working in connection with the ward Societies in the matter of conserving food. Large quantities of fresh fruit have been canned and made into jam and jelly, and many quarts of corn and beans have been preserved. A special effort will be made to can tomatoes and to dry apples and peaches as soon as they are ready. Portneuf Stake. The Portneuf stake in Idaho reports that every family has planted a large kitchen garden and that eight out of ten of the wards have planted and are caring for from one to five acres of wheat or potatoes. In order to conserve all the products raised, each society has purchased a pressure cooker. St. Joseph Stake. During the food campaign the Relief Societies of the St. Joseph stake have received a great deal of assistance from the University of Arizona. Special lecturers from the University have given lectures and demonstrations in the various wards on the methods of canning, drying and preserving fruits under the direction of the stake board. Committees were appointed in each town whose duty it has been to look after the fallen and surplus fruit and the surplus vegetables and to see that nothing has been wasted. Careful records are being kept by the ward presidents, through the teachers, of the amount of food that id being preserved. Many of the members of this slake have raised spring gardens and are now planting winter gardens. One of the members of the Relief Society organization has invented a fruit and vegetable dryer that has been highly commended by the State Conservation Committee and its use has been _ recommended throughout the State by this committee. Thirteen of the seventeen wards of the St. Joseph stake have collected and sent through the stake board t<> the Red Cross war fund of Arizona $1.^80.20. Appreciation for this large collection NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 569 was very gratefully expressed by the secretary of the Red Cross war fund. Raft River Stake. In the Raft River stake the women have been especially active in the growing of wheat. The following is a report of then activities along this line. Stake Board 5 acres of wheat Alma 5 acres of wheat, 1 acre of potatoes Albion 5 acres of wheat Grouse Creek 5 acres of wheat Molton 5 acres of wheat In the Albion ward the ground was plowed by the bishop and one of his counselors. It was harrowed by Relief Society officers, who also furnished a dinner for the brethren who had assisted them. Fremont Stake. The Lyman Relief Society of this stake collected under the Red Cross of war direction stake officers" 100^ of their allotment for the fund. Pan quitch Stake. 'The Centerville Relief Society has planted acres of corn, beans and squash, products of which will be dried. Box Elder Stake. During the summer, the Box Elder stake Relief Societies have been engaged in varied activities. There have been demonstrations and lectures in each ward on food and clothing conservation. Public canning days have been held. Each member of the Relief Society has been asked to furnish one or more bottles of fruit or vegetables for an emergency cupboard in each ward. Fruit drying parties are being held. Several Relief Society gardens of potatoes and beans have been planted. Each ward has had sewing meetings and made by quilts, rugs, carpets and children's clothing, the material donated the members. Forty-one quilts are now' on have hand. All saved the clean scraps of cloth too small for any other use been to he made into mattresses. Besides this work the soldier boys of the Box Elder Troop, Battery "C," and all those from the stake enlisted in other branches of war service have been fitted out with home-knit the stockings, mufflers, wristlets, etc. Each ward has done this work for its own boys. The yarn was spun especially in the home 
 Baron Woolen Mills at the reduced price of one dollar and thirty five cents per pound and the sisters volunteered the knitting-. Fruit is also being -dried to send to the soldiers.I pine Stake. American Fork. Under the direction of the stake president, Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, several of the wards in the Alpine stake have made a collection of shoes to be sent to France and Belgium. The shoes were repaired, polished and fitted up with new laces and buttons. Old tires from automobiles were utilized for new soles for the shoes. American Fork wards gathered 612 pairs, Elechi, 500 pairs, and Pleasant Grove, 200 pairs. The Alpine stake is offering a $10 prize to the ward having the most dried fruit and vegetables and a $10 prize to the ward having the most fresh fruit and jam. Pleasant Grove. The women of Pleasant Grove are very energetic in the matter of canning fruit. Tt is reported that many of the members in this locality will can from 500 to 900 quarts of fruit. Union Stake. The Relief Society women of the LaGrand ward are assisting the Red Cross in the making of surgical dressings. Twice a week one dozen members are to be found at the Red Cross headquarters and in connection with the young Mutual girls are busily engaged in this division of the work. In addition to this the Relief Societies are donating knitted goods, bed socks, towels, handkerchiefs, pajamas, etc. The stake has called for 100 quarts of preserves, jams and jellies to be placed in the stake emergency cabinet. North Davis Stake. The women of North Davis stake have made a special effort to establish an exchange system, whereby all surplus fruits and vegetables might be cared for. Those who have offered fruit for the use of the stake have reported to the officers and announcements have been made in the public meetings. In many instances fruit was to be had for the picking. The county agent has given food demonstrations, of which the demonstration on cottage cheese is probably the most interesting. .Smith Davis Stake. The Relief Society members of the South Davis stake have indicated their willingness to swell the wheat fund by making a donation for this purpose of all Sunday eggs. Tn addition NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 571 to the canning of fruit and vegetables this stake is drying large quantities of sweet corn. Reorganizations. Raft River Stake. At the Relief Society Conference held in Raft River stake, September 18th and 19th, a reorganization took place. Mrs. Lucy Ames who acted as stake president since this stake was first organized several years ago, resigned her position on account of change of residence. Mrs. Ames has worked very diligently and conscientiously in this new stake and has laid a good foundation for future growth. The following are the new stake officers: President, Mrs. Celia Harper, Albion, Idaho; 1st counselor, Mrs. Ida J. Romans; 2nd counselor, Mrs. Helen A. Broadhead; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. Maud L. Jones. Millard Stake. The Millard stake Relief Society was reorganized at the recent stake Conference. Mrs. Adeline B. Smith, who bad handed in her resignation was honorably released. Mrs. Smith and her officers were praised for their faithfulness and for the efforts they had put forth for improvement in Relief Society work. Mrs. Susan Thompson, of Scipio, was appointed to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mrs. Smith. She chose for her counselors, Mrs. Edna Poulson and Mrs. Flora Fisher. Mrs. Thompson has for a number of years had charge of the genealogical work in Millard stake Relief Society and is known to Relief Society workers as being most capable and energetic. THE NEW AMERICAN WAR SONG By Mrs. Lucy A. Clark is arranged for both women's and boys' voices. It is very popular and can be used in our Relief Society choirs. LINES Maud Baggarley. Say thou thy kindest words every day! See but the blue beyond the clouds of gray! Be not a hireling on the earth. But dignify thy place And justify thy birth. Dream dreams, but make them come true; Reach out for thy heart's desire, It is waiting for you!