[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Music Department Thompson]

MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini Composer of Inflammatus By Janet M. Thompson
AMONG the many lovely musical numbers used by the Relief Society Singing Mothers perhaps no one composition holds greater general interest than Rossini's Inflammatus. The popularity of this number may be attributed to the fact that it not only affords excellent opportunity for combined solo and chorus work, but it also provides a particular type of melody that immediately engages the attention of its listeners.
Gioacchino Antonio Rossini was born in Pesaro, Feb. 29, 1792, the only child of Giuseppe Rossini. At a very early age he displayed marked musical talent. He first learned to play a harpsichord. Under the tutelage of Angelo Tesei he soon learned to read, to accompany and to sing well enough to take solos in church. When about 10 years of age, Chevalier Giusti, commanding engineer of Bologna, became very much interested in Rossini. He read and explained the Italian poets to him and helped him to comprehend the possibilities of his inborn talent and the ideals he should strive for, and it was due to the efforts of this distinguished gentleman that Rossini owed the stimulation of his genius.
He produced his first opera when 18 years of age. Between 1815 and 1823 twenty others had been produced. His friends at one time disputed as to which was his best opera and appealed to him for an opinion. Rossini said, "You want to know which of my works I like best?Don Giovanni." Perhaps this opera is not so familiar to Americans as Barber of Seville. This latter opera was written in 13 days?an incredible feat.
His position among the world's greatest composers has been much discussed. His happy disposition and light-hearted manner have been used as arguments against classing him with such profound composers as Mozart and Beethoven. However, we do know that Rossini's melodies are conspicuous for great sweetness. His compositions were intended to please the public for whom he wrote, and they fulfilled their mission.
"Rossini possessed genius of an extraordinary character, yet many are inclined to believe that his inventive faculties were confined within quite measured limits. In spite of all this there can be no doubt that his compositions form a memorable epoch in the history of musical art." He died Nov. 13, 1868. He bequeathed to Bologna Institute an annual sum of ?240 for a competition both in dramatic poetry and composition, specifying particularly that the object of the prize should be to encourage composers with a turn for melody. He also gave the greater part of his property to the foundation and endowment of a conservatory of music at his native town, Pesaro.