[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Social ServiceHow Shall]

Social Service
PSYCHOLOGY AND MODERN PROBLEMS
Lesson 2
How Shall I Conduct Myself In An Age Of Automobiles
I. Automobiles Have Created One of the Most Serious Hazards to Life.
Medical progress during the past few decades has succeeded in eliminating small pox, diphtheria, malaria and typhoid as major causes of death; but in their wake has come the constant danger the automobile is to life and limb. In a booklet distributed by the Travelers Insurance Company, Death Begins at 40, we are told that "Our nation has engaged in six major wars since 1776. In total, these wars extended over a period of fifteen years. The number of American soldiers killed in action or who died of wounds during these fifteen years of war was 244,357." (p. 3). In fifteen years since 1923, there have been killed 441,912 persons, or about twice as many as during the same number of years of active war. Another alarming fact is that only once in these fifteen years before 1938 did the number of casualties decrease from the previous year, which was in 1932 when car registrations and perhaps the amount of driving done was reduced by the depression. In 1923 there were 18,031 deaths from car accidents, whereas by 1937 the total reached 40,300! Fortunately, since this report was written, the facts for 1938 available at this writing indicate a probable decrease for the year of approximately 8,000 deaths less than for 1937. The public has finally begun to realize that something must be done about the appalling dangers on our highways. It is gratifying to see that the broad educational and enforcement campaign carried on during the past year has brought some improvement. In Utah, however, there was an increase in fatalities during 1939?Utah being one of only three states in the Union that did not reduce the number of fatalities.
Fatality statistics show only part of the sad picture, too. In 1937, there were 1,221,090 persons injured by the automobile, many of whom, as Furnas says, would be "Better off Dead". II. The Principal Causes of Accidents Are Human, Not Mechanical.
Automobiles are being improved much more rapidly than is the person who uses them.
Automobile brakes are better than they have ever been, and the cars protect the person inside better than ever; roads are continually being widened, obstructions removed, and safer curves are being constructed. But the accident toll remains unbelievably high, nevertheless. The answer, of course, lies in the persons who drive. A man's "reaction time" is the time required to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 565 make an appropriate movement after a sign or stimulus has been given. The time it takes to apply the brakes after a car has been seen to approach from the side is the reaction time.
This speed of reaction is quite fixed in a person and improves only moderately with practice. In most individuals, it takes about three-quarters of a second to apply the brakes after danger has been seen, then it takes some time to stop after that, even with good brakes and on a good surface.
Modern cars are built to go faster and faster with each new model, but man's reaction time and judgment of speed and distance do not improve from one generation to the next. 'This fact is very important. If a car is going fifty miles an hour, it will travel fifty-five feet during the three-fourths of a second spent in getting the brakes set; by the time the car has come to rest, it will have gone 243 feet. At thirty miles per hour the brakes can be applied, and the car can be completely stopped within a hundred feet. The human mind is likewise limited in the number of things to which it can attend at once without confusion. In city traffic there are often many cars and persons to be watched at once. The resulting confusion definitely slows down reaction time, which requires slower speeds to avoid accidents.
Judgment of speed and distance, upon which all driving depends, is affected greatly ly fatigue and various poisons.
Long driving in heavy traffic, where much carbon monoxide gas is breathed, blunts the driver's judgment.
Studies of accidents by truck drivers have shown that a
566 AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great many very serious accidents occur as a result of going to sleep, and probably a great many more are partly a result of drowsiness and bad judgment.
Alcohol is probably responsible for a great many more accidents than the statistics show. The causes of an accident are often reported as "recklessness," "speeding," or some other cause rather than "drunken driving". One reason for this is that proof of intoxication is very difficult in some cases.
Convincing evidence, however, has been given recently that even mild quantities of alcohol will definitely decrease reaction speed, accuracy and judgment. In spite of this, the person who has been drinking acquires great confidence in his skill and has a "sense of well-being" which makes him take chances. He will race to beat red lights, will try to race with other cars, and will take curves too fast.
Usually the more passengers he carries, the more daring he becomes. We should use every effort to prevent such persons from driving, just as we should stop an intoxicated person or an irresponsible child from pointing a loaded gun at people, which is really less dangerous. We have been discussing the limitations that are likely to occur in all so-called normal drivers. We shall now turn to some of the abnormal persons who menace our highways.
There are a relatively small number of drivers who have a relatively large number of accidents, and there are a large number of drivers who have very few accidents. One survey showed that 100% of the accidents were caused by 24% of the drivers.
Besides the normal limitations of these "repeaters" are found poor vision of one kind or another?near-sightedness, partial blindness, and crossed eyes. It is little wonder that they judge speed and distance so poorly.
Other persons on the highways are mentally deficient and naturally lack the general good judgment required in driving.
Then there are the occasional epileptics whose minds are often cloudy, the mildy insane, to say nothing of the warped personalities who "bully" their way through traffic, or who "show off" with their speed, or who throw tantrums when not given the full nght of way. Absent-minded persons, often of high social standing, are a great menace because their driving does not fully occupy their minds.
These groups, along with habitual drinkers, are to be found among the "accident prone drivers" who cause more than their share of the accidents. The solution to the problem they create is to require stricter examinations before giving driver's licenses and stricter laws by which to remove from the highways this accident prone group. III. A Few Things a Driver Should Remember.
Good drivers by practice develop judgment of speeds and distances so that they are able to allow enough margin to avoid collisions.
This judgment is what makes the difference between an experienced driver and an inexperienced one who may know all of the rules of the road and the routine of operating a car. The margins of safety necessary will vary according to many conditions, such as the strangeness of the road, condition of the surface as to dampness and ice and snow, and the possibility of poorly visible objects such as livestock and pedestrians on roads at night.
Many accidents are caused by poor judgment as to the amount of margin of safety required under these various conditions; for example, allowing a child on a bicycle plenty of room to make the unexpected turn into our path or for a cow to "change its mind". As we have suggested, this kind of judgment will be affected by experience, fatigue, alcohol, and personal fitness in mind and body. A few of the more common chances taken in disregard of necessary margins of safety are: (1) Passing on a hill another car going in the same direction when the possible approach of a third car cannot be seen; (2) passing on turns when the approach of another car or the presence of some obstruction cannot be seen; (3) failing to estimate the speed of an approaching car when passing one going in one's own direction, followed by "cutting in" on the one car and driving the other off the road; (4) driving too slowly and inattentively for the flow of traffic.
Most traffic laws forbid these practices, but they are nevertheless common mistakes with serious results. A common failing many people have is to assume that because the law is on our side we have nothing to fear. We should always make allowances for people who will break the law, because there are always plenty of them. An especially important rule of the road is to always allow for whatever the other person may do unexpectedly, particularly children playing, children on bicycles and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 567 roller skates, as well as loose animals, and drunken drivers and other persons who give evidence of not being responsible. IV. A Few Things the Pedestrian Should Remember. During 1937, 43,290 of the fatalities were a result of collision of cars with pedestrians. Of fatal accidents to pedestrians, 27.8% occur while the pedestrian is crossing somewhere along the block between the intersections, and only 25.5% occur at intersections, although most of the pedestrians cross at the intersections. The reason for this fact is that cars go faster along the block and are less alert to pedestrians than at the intersections.
Many accidents result from pedestrians stepping into the street from between parked cars, which allows the driver a very small margin of safety.
Most accidents to pedestrians, in fact, occur within a few steps from the curb, about where people stop to look around.
Never step from the curb until the way is clear, then walk resolutely across, and show no indecision after you have made sure you are safe. Of pedestrian fatalities, 20% occur while walking on rural highways, where the traffic is usually fast.
Most of the pedestrians struck on tural highways are killed; only a small per cent (4.5%) of injuries occur here.
Always walk on the left side of the road in order to face the on-coming traffic.
When two cars are passing in opposite directions at the point where they pass you, always give them all of the road, because for an instant they are perfectly blind to everything but the glaring lights of the other car.
This partial blindness may remain until 568 - AUGUST, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE some distance after they have passed, due to a limitation of the human eye in adapting to extremes of light and darkness. A flashlight or lantern should also be carried by pedestrians as an added precaution. Remember, too, that automobiles are much quicker than humans, and that as later maturity approaches, the reaction time of people becomes slower and we must revise our habits to allow ourselves as pedestrians still greater margins of safety than were necessary when we were younger. V. What Shall We Do About the Problem of Youth and Automobiles?
Serious problems created by the automobile are not limited to the road.
Modern youths have an almost irresistible urge to feel the sense of power which comes from driving a car.
They look to privileges with automobiles as a sign of maturity even more than the change to long trousers formerly was. So strong is the desire to drive that car stealing has become one of the major forms of juvenile delinquency.
Youth is often over-confident, daring, inclined to display, and to be irresponsible with property and life. The mastery of the mechanics of driving comes easily to most young people, but not so easily does good judgment and mature responsibility come. The proper approach to this problem seems to be not unlike that required in meeting most other problems of adolesence.
Development of responsibility begins early in life by parents requiring children to comply with reasonable requirements, and by gradual growth through their exercising new powers and privileges.
More concretely, this means that young people should begin their training in the use of the automobile considerably before they are legally prepared to drive (sixteen years of age in Utah).
This should be done by an understanding father who takes every care not to "fall out" with the youth in the process of training. Training, of course, should be in some isolated place where there is little chance of accident.
Encouragement for success and good example are more effective than scolding and preaching.
What the youth needs is confidence based upon genuine and thorough skill and judgment.
Parents are wiser not to emphasize the differences in judgment between themselves and their children.
Parents should be aware that their judgment is better; but to be of service as teacher, antagonism and resentment must be avoided. In giving advice while the youth is driving, avoid excitement and distraction which result from sharp, scolding remarks.
Mothers often utterly fail to have any beneficial effect on young drivers, because they have "fallen out" with their children at least so far as the driving situation is concerned. Too much nagging is especially harmful and ill-advised.
Consideration for parents in the use of the automobile should be encouraged as one of the "good things in life" and an essential part of the larger problem of wholesome personality development in youth. VI. Are You a Back Seat Driver? We have seen that distraction decreases reaction speed and may thereby contribute to accidents. "Back seat driving" does this, and more.
Personality conflicts between the driver and the "'would-be-driver" are likely to result. The driver may then take out his antagonism by being discourteous to other traffic.
Psychologists have long contended that judgment is not so good when we are angry. Moreover, the driver seldom takes the advice of the "back seat driver," even though it be cor- "rect.
There is a difference between "back seat driving," which is held in considerable disrepute, and occasional offering of suggestions, which may be compared to what has been said about attitudes that should prevail between father and son in learning to drive. "Back seat driving" is usually a failure in influencing the driver in the same way that any attempt to influence other people is a failure if it is not based upon a recognition and respect for the egofeelings of the one to be influenced. Problems For Discussion 1.
What do we mean by "accident prone drivers"?
Name a few types of persons who fall into this class. 2. Read Child Guidance Lesson 5, Relief Society Magazine, June, 1937, Pp. 755-58.
Show the importance of the automobile in psychological weaning. 3.
Show how "back seat driving" is likely to defeat its own purpose. 4.
Carefully examine your habits as a pedestrian. How can you revise them in order to increase your own safety? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST - 569
References 1. Barsantee, Harry. Death Begins at 4o. Distributed free by Travelers Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. Presents great many facts on causes of accidents, in popular and humorous style. 2. Forbes, T. W. Accidents in Traffic and Industry as Related to the Psychology of Vision. National Society for the Prevention of Blindness, 1936. 50
West soth Street, New York. Price 10?. 3. Furnas, J. C., Smith, E. N. Sudden Death and How to Avoid It. Simon and Schuster, New York: 1935: 25c. Includes reference 5s, also two articles describing horrors of car accidents; not recommended for persons easily affected. "And Sudden Death," by J. C. Furnas, appeared in Readers Digest, August, 1935- 4. Reisner, E. J., deOnis, H., and Stolper, T. M., eds. Parents and the Automobile. 1936. Teachers' College, Bureau of Publications, Columbia University, New York. Especially good on problems of youth and automobiles. 5. Smith, Ernest N., Manual for Safe Driving, Simon and Schuster, New York, 1935. Distributed free by Glen Falls Indemnity Co., Glen Falls, N. Y. Included in reference 3. Also request a copy of the state motor vehicle laws from your highway department.