[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Shining Bowen]
The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER SEVEN
BY THE time Robert Lathrop had reached the bottom of Queen Anne Hill, he was of the opinion that Miss Brill hadn't supplied him with any evidence. He even doubted the evidence of his own senses that had first led him on this windmill-tilting expedition.
Standing in the shelter of the bus stop on Westlake was Nell Carey, her red hair in damp tendrils on her tweed collar with the mist of the slight rain that was falling. Rob drew up at the curb and beckoned to her. It was the Delavan hair all right. And he'd say to the court, "Gentlemen, I give you this perfect copy of the Delavan hair tint and ask you to accept her as the missing heiress." And the court would say mildly, "But is there a missing heiress? Nobody ever asked us to find one."
He said out loud, disgustedly, "And isn't it the truth."
"Isn't what the truth, my cryptic friend?" Nell inquired.
Rob did not answer. He looked at the girl and was confused at his own reaction.
"If I'd known you were coming to town, you could have driven in with me," he said, needing to make conversation. Then suddenly, as Nell sat near him, Sally Delavan's hysterical scream rang in his ears, "You're in love with her, that's what!" Was he? He stole another look at the girl, and his heart began to pound like a schoolboy's. He shook his head impatiently?pure suggestion, that.
"Look out! You'll land us in the lake!" Nell cried.
"Or in the lap of the law," Rob said grimly. "Sit tight. There's a boat coming up the locks. Let's make it before the bridge goes up."
Recklessly they dodged in and out of traffic and reached the middle of the bridge just as the guard came out to halt the traffic.
"I've always," Rob declared, "had an urge to stay on the bridge until it's completely up. Some day I'm going to do it."
Nell said promptly, "You'd roll off, of course, the minute it began to rise."
"That's so," he admitted, undisturbed. "Anyway, it's a grand thought."
"And once," Nell said, "I thought you were thirty-five."
"Did you?" he said, delighted. "I didn't think you gave me a thought of any kind. Miss High-and-Mighty in a green smock, stalking through the corn like avenging justice with a hoe in her hand!"
Nell laughed at this picture, and Rob laughed with her. Very gay, they were, aloud. But secretly each one was gnawing at a small tight knot of apprehension, hoping for the success of things hopeless in their very nature.
"And what," said Robert Lathrop, "were you up to in Seattle, if one may ask?"
Nell hesitated. "I was delivering my picture to be entered in the contest."
Lathrop's good humor dropped from him like a cloak. He scowled. "I'm sorry. You're just riding for a good hard bump."
"I don't think so," Nell retorted. "I know I'm no Whistler, but I think I have a fair chance to win something."
She understated. Really, she expected first place. If Rob but knew it, it was his own praise that had given her this hope.
"That's what I thought, once. Slaved away in college like an earnest little fool, spent a year East, worked in my dad's architectural office for two years, all to find out I couldn't even pass muster with a lousy little library," he growled savagely, stepping hard on the accelerator.
So that was his trouble! Robert Lathrop had entered a design in the Graham Library contest?and lost. Nell looked at him thoughtfully.
"That was just the opinion of a few people," she said gently. "You lost faith in yourself too soon."
"Too soon!" he echoed excitedly, "after seven years of it? That contest was all in the bag before a single 'contest' plan was sent in. I suppose you expect a man to be a second Jacob serving for his Rachel?start all over again, with a grin on his face, when he finds he's drawn a Leah."
"Something like that," Nell persisted sturdily. "Every person in this world who has done anything worth while has had to do it in spite of sorrowing friends who hate to see him make a fool of himself. If you are ready to go down before the first opposition you run into?the fact is, art takes time, and I'm willing to use mine that way."
And bend those straight little shoulders into a weary hump with fruitless years over an easel, Lathrop thought.
"Go your own way," he said morosely. "For myself, I decline to go back to planning old ladies' kitchens when I could create mansions. I prefer to go down to the Opposition."
Nell laughed. "And I may be making Dutch Boy book ends in ten years. Who knows?"
But in her heart she did not think so. There was success before her in a shining aura. There must be, for the sake of Aunt Brill's faith in her.
Rob looked at her cynically, as if he read her thoughts. "You are still so frightfully young," he sighed, "it's too bad you have to wake up."
They made him feel like a skeleton at a feast, these Careys, with their eternal optimism, their utter unconcern over their poverty. And that Ulysses thing Nell was always quoting: "To seek, to find, and not to yield." It would get past his guards yet.
"I'm having a wheelchair sent out for Miss Brill," he said abruptly.
"Mr. Lathrop! Oh, that's wonderful. I?"
He cut in, "She needs to get out in the sun," he explained. "I know," Nell admitted. "She ought to be down on the desert for the winter."
If they had the money, that's where they'd go, both of them. Art lessons overboard, forgotten, Rob thought excitedly. Get ready for another pitched battle, Sally Delavan, because I'm going to make it. This girl isn't going to be another sacrifice on the altar of second-rate art if I can help it!
Rob's eyes shone. He almost missed the car that passed them, a car driven by Fred Nagle, with the hungry-eyed Miss Lola Twillham beside him. Not too late, Fred glanced back and saw Nell and Rob, so that he almost ran off the road staring at the two in Lathrop's car.
Rob laughed, "Does he look conscience stricken, or is that my gloomy imagination? And he's driving so recklessly. Must be doing all of thirty-five."
"Poor Fred," Nell sighed, "I'm afraid I'll never understand chickens as I should. Miss Twillham is an inspiration to him."
"I've noticed that," said Rob drily. Why must a girl like Nell be put to it to choose between a moldy old palette and a dull, unimaginative chap like Fred? More power to the efforts of Miss Twillham, but he was afraid even Fred would have the sense to prefer Nell's flower-like charm to the mousy-haired Twilly.
"Do you remember your parents?" he asked Nell abruptly.
She looked at him quickly. "No. Why?"
"I?just wondered if the red hair ran in the Carey family," Rob said lamely.
"My father was not a Carey," Nell answered quietly, "I don't know who he was?nor my mother either."
"How did you discover that?" Rob burst out. Miss Brill had certainly not told her.
"An old man told me," Nell said. "It was torture for a time, but now it doesn't make any difference. Aunt Brill's been more than a mother to me. She mustn't know that I know. It would break her heart," she warned sharply.
"She won't find out from me," Rob promised, "and she certainly won't find out from?"
He beat in time.
"From whom?"
"Did anyone," Rob asked, "ever tell you how much you resemble Sally Delavan?"
"Do I? She's?beautiful, you know," Nell exclaimed. "Her picture was in the paper awhile ago, and Mary Kelly looked at it, then at me, and got quite excited. Do I really look like her?"
"Oh, she's not so wonderful," Rob said, and added hastily, "her looks are all right, but she doesn't measure up to them."
"Oh, don't say that! Do you know, I saw her once?at Maddoxes. She fascinates me. She's mysterious, as though she'd had a great sorrow in her life."
"She's had one, all right, but it's not the one she thinks it is," Robert said grimly. "Her biggest sorrow is her own selfish heart. She's had the cream of everything all her life, and she wouldn't give up a bit of it?even to a starving cat. That is, she thinks she wouldn't. She'll find out!"
They were on the last bit of road to the gray house. Nell was silent. She seemed to have no more to say of Sally Delavan. Rob told himself he was a fool to have mentioned her. What if nothing came of his efforts? If they succeeded, what then? Nell's life would be hopelessly confused by the claims of the two women, for if Sally once admitted Nell's identity, she would attempt to absorb her entire being. She had done that with others she had loved.
Said Nell abruptly, "You haven't wished me luck yet, about the picture."
Rob frowned. "You know what I think, but if there's any luck to be squeezed out of the whole dreary mess, I wish you to have it, with all my heart. End of the line. Everybody out."
And a good thing it was, almost ready to make some kind of fool of himself, as he was.
"NELL, I want to talk to you." It was Fred's voice, behind them. He was sitting between two closely-placed fir trees south of the house, in the little seat Nell had built there, waiting for the girl to come.
Nell flashed Rob a glance and climbed out of the car. She went over to Fred slowly and sat on an old stump some distance from the young man.
Rob was about to drive on to the old barn where he kept his car when Miss Brill called to him from the house.
"What is that contraption they put in the kitchen?" she demanded sharply. "Some impudent fellows walked in without so much as by-your-leave and left the thing here half an hour ago."
"Didn't you ask them?" Rob inquired.
"I did not! Do you think I want strange men traipsing into my room answering questions, and Mary Kelly not here?" cried Miss Brill indignantly.
"What did they leave?"
"It looks," said Rob, standing in Miss Brill's door, "like a chair for ladies of leisure."
"A what?"
"Common people might call it a wheel chair," Rob expanded, seating himself in the carpet rocker, "but?"
"Wheel chair!" exploded Miss Brill, her cheeks pink, "what do I want with a thing like that? I'm going to be up on my own feet in a week or two. Whoever had the nerve!"
"A weak-minded fellow who thought you'd like to beat nature by a few days and get around in the sunshine a bit," Rob admitted, twirling his hat and fixedly gazing at the portrait of the departed Tom Carey.
Miss Brill stared at him a moment. Her lips trembled, and she blew her nose vigorously.
"I'm?just an ungrateful old woman," she sniffed, wiping her eyes. "You know, Rob," she said damply, "I can see now why women are so daft about their sons. Somehow the things a boy does to please you?they're so young and clumsy."
"Think nothing of it," Rob said uncomfortably, and they both fell into a silence, in which Fred Nagle's voice boomed like a near-by loud speaker just turned on.
"and she thought you'd be sore at me?thought you'd think I was? well?interested in her," Fred said, "while all I?well, she does know a lot about chickens. Some of the newer ideas that have just come out."
They could hear Nell's slight laugh.
"Why, of course, Fred, I understand. Tell Miss Twillham I'm glad you have her to talk with. I'm so little help about the chickens."
