[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund
Hollywood Stake
THE picture is of a grand Song Festival held by a group of Relief Society Singing Mothers, May 19, 1939. This delightful event was held in the Hollywood Stake under the direction of the Stake Relief Society. The Singing Mothers from Southern California, which included Hollywood, Pasadena, San Bernardino, Long Beach and Los Angeles Stakes, presented the very wonderful event as a climax to their season's work. The combined chorus represented 350 women. In addition to the beautifully presented music "Our Town," the Pulitzer prize-winning play by Wilder, was read by Mrs. Jean Spencer Farr. The choruses participated in this as numbers were required. The ensemble numbers were conducted by Mrs. Mary B. Jex, chorister of the Hollywood Stake. Following this delightful hour of drama and music, refreshments were served in the patio. The event was a memorable one in every particular and demonstrated the fine training and the spirit of cooperation which enables Relief Society women to do fine and artistic work.
Beaver Stake
FROM the Beaver Stake we are in receipt of a very fine account of the celebration which was held in the Milford Ward recreation hall March 17, the anniversary of Relief Society. It was particularly interesting that this date was also the 34th year of the organization of the Milford Ward Relief Society. The program was inspired by the anniversaries commemorated. A beautiful pageant which presented the history of the Milford Ward Relief Society as well as the background of the early organization was read. Music formed a very important part of the program. Refreshments were served following the program. The decorations were in keeping with the day.
Idaho Falls Stake
ANOTHER activity which has been a source of satisfaction and demonstrates the resourcefulness and ability of Relief Society women, comes to us in the report from Idaho Falls Stake. In addition to the excellence of the regular work which has been accomplished in this stake, a delightful report comes of the activities of the young mothers in the Family Relations group. Many enthusiastic young mothers have made great effort to join the group. The picture shows this class of young women. Many of these have small children and for that reason have not been as active as they wished to be in the Organization work. Between 45 and 50 young women were found really eager to join the Family Relations class and yet were so tied at home that they were scarcely acquainted in the ward. In order to permit these young mothers to attend, provision was made to care for their children through the establishment of a successful nursery. The young women who joined these classes feel richly repaid in the very important discussions held on family life. It has been the desire of the Relief Society stake board that the suggestions of the General Board in relation to the conduct of this class be carefully followed.
Portneuf Stake
THE great appeal of music in Relief Society is in evidence in all places. The picture is a group of Singing Mothers from the Downey Ward of Portneuf Stake. This organization has been a source of spiritual and cultural uplift in the stake. It has furnished music for funerals and for many ward functions. It conducted a very fine open-air concert which took the form of an Easter cantata. A sunrise service was held at 6:30 in the morning when an inspirational program was presented to a large and appreciative audience. The cantata, "The Thorn-Crowned King," the theme of which is the crucifixion and resurrection of the Savior, was given on the afternoon of Easter Sunday. The spirit of the occasion was emphasized and interpreted by the beautiful music and Easter decorations.
Summit Stake
A VERY interesting report of the activities of Summit Stake comes to the office. This stake has many obstacles to overcome, but the sisters of the Relief Society have carried on and have the satisfaction of feeling that their work has been successful. During the latter part of the year Daughters' Day was observed for the first time and was a source of great satisfaction to the sisters. At the closing Union meeting of the season the spirit of the Membership Drive was formally launched. The symbol adopted by this stake is unusually appropriate. It is that of a mountain, the summit of which will represent the achievement of the 100% quota in the Membership Drive. On the side of the mountain 8 canyons are indicated, this to symbolize the 8 wards of the stake. The mountain is barren, but there is a growth of evergreen trees at the base. As each new member is enrolled in the various wards, an evergreen tree will appear in the canyon where it belongs. It is the hope of this stake at the conclusion of the Membership Campaign in 1942 to see the mountain, clear to the summit, completely covered with evergreen trees.
The picture is of Echo Ward, one of the small wards of the stake. Two other wards have made an enviable record. A report from the stake states: "Echo is another one of our very small wards and had been without a Relief Society organization for some time. Late in the fall we met with them, at their request, and reorganized. They have done a wonderful work in spite of many drawbacks, which very small groups experience. Almost all of their members paid their dues, and quite a percentage subscribed for the Magazine. Only a few weeks after they started meeting, a very fine and successful bazaar was held. Their Annual Day celebration was a dinner party held at the home of their president, Sister Sarah Ann Richins. The table was beautifully decorated and the afternoon was so happily spent they feel they shall always retain the spirit of love and good will felt on that occasion.
"Upton Ward is our only ward off the main highway. It is composed of twenty families and is situated about ten miles east of us up in the mountains. During the summer it is a very beautiful valley, but during the winter the snow makes it rather difficult to go about. However, our faithful sisters go bravely through the storms and carry on their work most of the winter. Their Annual Day party was held March 17 in the evening. It consisted of a program, dancing and refreshments. Almost the entire ward population attended and had an enjoyable time together.
"Rockport is another small ward which began its Relief Society work in October, after being disorganized for some time. They were very anxious for an organization because they keenly felt the loss after having had one. When they began preparations for the Annual Day party, they intended to make it an afternoon just for Relief Society women, but some of the husbands wanted to know why they could not be included, so the time of the program was changed to evening; all of the husbands attended and had such a splendid time they wished there were two Annual Days each year instead of one. These sisters are doing a good work and have all but two women in the ward enrolled in their association."
Sharon Stake
