[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Activities]

Certainly, if used, it will lift our women and our organizations to higher ideals of intellectual, creative and social activities. Vision will be broadened, bringing sympathy and understanding; when this becomes Church and nation wide, it will lead to a universal sisterhood.
Magazine Drive
STAKES and missions are again preparing for the annual Magazine Drive, which in most places is conducted from September 15 to October 15. The unusual success of the 1938 Drive forecasts another outstanding achievement in 1939. The Membership Drive, which has increased enrollment figures in practically every ward and branch, gives renewed impetus to the work of Magazine representatives.
Our Goal
The goal of the Drive is a subscription list equal to the number of Relief Society members?active, honorary and inactive.
Grouping
The same grouping for awards as was used last year will be in effect this year: Group A?Total enrollment of 100 or more. Group B?Total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive. Group C?Total enrollment up to 49.
Honor Roll
All Magazine agents reporting a subscription list equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment will have their reports published on the HONOR ROLL in the December issue of the Magazine.
Awards
To the four ward agents in each group obtaining the highest percentages, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all ward agents not receiving a bound volume but who obtain subscriptions equal to 75% or above of the net enrollment, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the ward agent desires, the free subscription may be sent to some one designated by her.
Reports
The same kind of report forms as used last year will again be used. These will be mailed to stakes and missions. They in turn will forward the ward reports to the wards and branches. These forms are self-explanatory. Ward and branch reports are compiled and returned to the stakes and missions (not to this office). Stake and mission reports are then compiled from these and sent directly to the Magazine office.
We urge that stake and mission representatives see that reports reach this office not later than NOVEMBER 10, otherwise wards and branches cannot be listed on the Honor Roll, published in the December Magazine.
Percentages
Magazine percentages are figured on a basis of complete enrollment? active, honorary and inactive?as of January 1, 1939. This figure must correspond with that given in the Annual Report. It is requested that secretaries provide Magazine representatives with this information.
However, in some cases two Relief Society members live together in the same household as members of one family (for example, a mother and daughter), and only one subscription can reasonably be secured. In each case where this occurs, one may be deducted from the total enrollment (active, honorary and inactive) in figuring percentages. This figure represents the net enrollment. This does not apply to cases where two women use the same Magazine, sharing the expense of subscribing, but do not live together as members of one family.
Percentages are figured by dividing the total number of subscriptions secured (from October 15, 1938 to October 15, 1939) by the net enrollment.
Orders
Great care should be taken in filling out the orders properly. The writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent? the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. State the month when the subscription is to begin and amount of money sent.
Subscription lists with money should be sent directly by the ward agents to the Relief Society Magazine office, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Agents who are entitled to a free subscription should not list their names on the order blanks together with names of other subscribers.