[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Handicraft Parker]

MORMON HANDICRAFT By Nellie O. Parker
Highlights
Needles and pins, needles and pins, When a girl marries her trouble begins. There's dishes and doilies, cushions and quilts, And rugs for the floor if a home's to be built.
A hint is sufficient, enough for the wise, There's a shop full of choice and varied supplies; Mormon Handicraft offers the loveliest things To make the "Home Beautiful" where happiness sings.
THE business of homemaking is a very important one, in fact one of the most important in the world. Home implies more than just a house or rooms to live in and things to live with. The home should be the fountain head of true living and real happiness. It should be a haven, a warm, gay, loving refuge to its members. To be this it must be comfortable and usable as well as beautiful, and it should be built upon the rock of durability to stand the wear and tear of full living and long service.
Handmade articles of quality and fine workmanship help to build a real home. Their genuineness and potentiality for long service gives a feeling of permanence and stability. Their beauty and distinctiveness add character to the home and give a satisfying delight that makes them a joy forever. They administer to both the body and the spirit which is so essential to abundant living.
During the month of June Mormon Handicraft paid $836.91 to women for articles that were sold. The records are showing a steady increase in business, but the sales are not yet sufficient to pay all expenses of the Shop. There is a monthly overhead for rent, heat, lights, equipment, etc., which must be met if our enterprise is to be self-supporting and permanent. The General Board has been making up the deficit. The Advisory Committee feels that with the support of our own local people this very worthy project can be self-maintained. The aim is not to make a profit but to make just enough to cover expenses. The aim is also to give our women as much as possible for their work and still keep prices low enough for people generally to buy. Our prices are not high when quality and workmanship are considered. They are lower than machine-made articles of the same quality. They are more economical in the long run because our articles will outwear cheaper grades many times. Then, also, there is the good feeling that comes from loyalty to home people and home projects.