[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Little Old Glass Dix]
Little Old Glass Slipper
By Fae Decker Dix
THE old man was lonely, it's true. But you would never suspect it if you stepped up to his rickety door sometime and caught him looking at the little old glass slipper on the mantel shelf. Mostly he'd be there at sundown, for that was the time when he longed for them—the children and Betsy.
Not that he wasn't used to being all alone, for he'd had nineteen years of it now come September. But he still couldn't help getting restless about chore-time. Not that there were any chores for him to do any more. There was nothing for him to do. That was what bothered him so. People didn't need you for anything when you were poor and going on seventy-seven.
But there was his own little fire to lay at sundown and a few weeds to pull from the row of radishes he planted each spring. It made him feel right useful to be gathering the chips and pulling the handful of weeds as dusk drew on.
It was such a still time at sundown. He couldn't ever quite get used to not finding Betsy there over the cookstove heating the porridge, humming a tune, treading from cupboard to table and back. He would think of her straining the pail of milk he brought, shooing the last sleepy chickens from the doorstep, telling the dog to go out to the woodshed.
Betsy had been the last one there. It had been years since the children were with them. The boys somehow didn't take to the land and left as soon as they could do a day's work elsewhere.
Married now, they were, all four of them, and living far away. Linnie, the only girl, had died when she was seventeen. It was Linnie who made the little glass slipper so important.
During the long months she lay ill she would stare up at the bit of shiny glass on the old mantel and look very very happy. It meant such a lot to them when she could look happy, as if the pain had fled for a moment.
Every night when the sun was about to set, she'd ask one of them to move the slipper out to the edge of the shelf and over toward the far end so the last rays could slant over every little point in the yellow glass and make it dance for her.
Sometimes the points reflected back with prismatic loveliness on the whitewashed chimney, and Linnie would clap her thin hands and call it her "rainbow" and beg to hear again how mother had brought the little slipper all the way across the ocean to this cabin home in an American village. And Betsy, treading heavy-footed from cupboard to table and back, would repeat in her equally heavy voice, the story of how her own grandmother had given her the glass slipper for a keepsake, how it used to have a lock of her first sweetheart's hair tucked down in the toe, how Father made her throw the lock away when he married her.
Here the old man always shuffled his feet and looked sort of foolish, and Betsy would give him a swift glance and tell how she had kept locks of each of her babies' hair in the glass slipper until the night of the fire.
Then the old man would cut in with the story of the fire. He would tell how everything in their first little home burned except the little glass slipper and the treasure chest. The treasure chest was a wooden box bound with iron bands containing many old trinkets reminiscent of their life in the old country and many little keepsakes of the children's.
Most of its contents were now distributed among the boys and their families. But no one could get the old man to part with the chest itself, or the brass candlesticks in the old bedroom, or the little glass slipper. He kept Linnie's and Betsy's clothes packed in the treasure chest now that the trinkets were gone.
Each year he unfolded the beloved garments, shook them in the air a bit, and put fresh mothballs in the chest again. It was a pleasant interlude for him, this handling of the past, this bringing to light again the things that Betsy and Linnie had worn when they were alive and busy and laughing about the old place with him. How sweet it had been to watch Linnie feeding the ducks and the chickens out in the yard, and later from her bedside. 'They'd get so they'd walk across the clean board floor right up to her cot and peck out of her hands. And, if she could smile at all, she would smile and talk with the clucking hens and pretend she wasn't lonely. But it was lonely for Linnie in the village.
Here were not many girls her age anyway, and those who were had been too "boystruck" to think much of giving friendship to a sick girl. The old man reckoned, as he rocked to and fro in his quaint, rough chair by the tumbling cookstove, that the yellow glass slipper had been RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, AUGUST 519 their staunchest friend.
Everything else had seemed to go—the chickens, the dog, Linnie, Betsy.
