[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Guarding the Miller]
GUARDING THE FAMILY HEALTH By Elna Miller Conference Address, Work and Business Department
THE question of guarding the family health through nutrition is one that is receiving not only state-wide but national and international attention. At the League of Nations' Convention a Nutrition Department was conducted with representatives from different countries in attendance. Their report was that a great deal of improvement has been made recently in food consumption habits, but there is still a great deal of malnutrition present in all countries. Their recommendation is that we improve diets by increasing the use of the supply of protective foods— milk, fruits, proteins, and whole grains.
Food supplies for optimum and adequate diet are receiving a great deal of attention now. The adequate diet is one which has just enough of the proper food elements to prevent any serious disorders developing. The optimum diet, on the other hand, is one which promotes the most favorable degree of physical development. Dr. H. C. Sherman is largely responsible for the optimum diet. He has done a great deal of research and experimental work, largely with albino rats and guinea pigs. To the adequate diet he added more milk, vitamins, proteins and the whole grain cereals. The results of his study show that optimum diet results in an increased rate of growth and development during the growing period, increased adult vitality after the adult stage is reached, and also increased retention of the characteristics of youth, more vigor, and also an increased life span.
WHILE we have been doing a great deal to improve the diet of the child, we must still keep in mind that the adult also needs the right diet. In about 1934 the Bureau of Home Economics made a study of the dietary habits of 25,000 families in eight regions of the United States. The only families considered in this study were families who had definite incomes. Both urban and rural communities were represented. Families were classified according to the amount of money spent in a year's time for the food supply—$50, $100, $150, to above $350. From this study we found that proper diet is not just a case of getting enough money but of spending money wisely. Many families who were spending enough money for a fully adequate diet, were not getting it.
In analyzing each group for adequacy, examinations were made to determine if diets contained sufficient minerals and vitamins. In determining calcium adequacy, it was found that less than half had a sufficient supply, not enough for good bone and tooth development, for maintaining muscle tone, and making it possible for the blood to clot normally. Only about half were getting enough iron—an essential mineral. The best source of iron is in whole grain cereals. Only about one-fifth were getting an adequate vitamin A supply, so necessary for protecting lining tissues. The lack of vitamin A in sufficient quantities causes nutritional night blindness; individuals fail to make the proper adjustment to light, especially during the twilight period of the day. This is being given as one of the probable causes of so many automobile accidents.
Vitamin B was found to be deficient in the diets of about half of those studied. An animal whose diet is low in B is a nervous little creature. This is typical of the condition of children when they have a low supply of vitamin B. Diets low in vitamin C were found in about the same number as those low in vitamin B—just about half of the group having sufficient. We need this vitamin along with calcium and phosphorous. We find if we can increase the supply of vitamin C in the diet of people who have sore gums, this condition will clear up. Vitamin C will help to prevent pyorrhea.
In 1934, 70 per cent of the 43,000 young men in the prime of life, who should be in the very best possible physical condition, who applied for entrance in the U. S. Navy were rejected because of physical defects largely due to malnutrition. The year following, 1935, 75 per cent of 28,000 were rejected.
SOME of our people have been quite disturbed because of the reports of our findings through our health examinations of school children. These examinations are made by our school physicians. Reports from all of the counties in Utah are similar; and from what we learn from other states, conditions are not very much better there—some are worse. People will say, "I know my child is not malnourished." It seems to be such a shock to people to tell them that anything is wrong with their children. Unfortunately, we find a high percentage with physical disorders, poor posture, crooked bones, etc. Much of this is due to poor diet.
As I have gone into some of our schools to select children as examples of well developed boys and girls, I have found it exceptionally hard to find good specimens. The hair condition is one of the first things we look for. The condition of the young child, or any individual for that matter, shows in the hair. If the hair is dull and lifeless-looking, we usually find nutritional disorders.
Teeth examinations have been quite revealing. Of one hundred and sixty-eight school children examined, 7 were found with good teeth, 46 with bad teeth, 30 had very bad teeth, and 85 had extremely bad teeth. These children attended school in one of our well-to-do communities. There is no good reason, from an economic standpoint, why the teeth of these children should have been in such a condition.
In one of our public clinics 16 babies were examined; 15 had definite signs of rickets. This is not a very hopeful condition. It is not hopeless, however, because we can do much toward correction or prevention. If we are going to guard the family health through good nutrition, we must supply the mother, in the prenatal period, with the right kind of food. This good beginning must be carried on through the entire life span of the individual.
WE want to train the public in good food habits. Milk supply is important — one quart of milk every day for the growing child, and preferably for the adult, in order to supply the needed calcium. Calcium comes from other sources also, but it is quite difficult to get enough from these.
