[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | January | Issue: 5 | Title: STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

STAKE PRESIDENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
SOME BUSY WOMEN OF THE CHURCH.
	The organization of the women of the
Latter-day Saints known as the Relief So-
ciety is operated on the general lines of or-
ganization in the Church—namely, a presi-
dency and board of directors at the head,
with a presidency and corps of assistants

[Column 2]
over each stake of Zion, and under these the
presidencies, teachers and members con-
stituting the ward society. Inasmuch as the
membership of the Relief Society is some-
thing like 35,000, the remarkably systematic
nature of its work will be evident from the
statement that the general president is kept
at all times in perfect touch with the vari-
ous charities and operations of each branch
society, no matter how small or how remote
it may be.
	There are 59 stakes of Zion and each of
these, as stated, has an organization of the
society. It is the president in each of these
stakes who is the medium between the local
workers and the general officers. All in-
structions for the conduct of the work are
communicated to the members through her,
and the work done by the members is like-
wise reported by her. It will be seen, there-
fore, that these stake presidents must needs
be very busy women in directing the affairs
of all the different wards over which they
preside and in making personal visits, not
only to the wards, but also to the homes of
the people. Some of them travel during the
year many miles over dreadful roads in order
to make these visits, while others have the
convenience of railway trains or street cars;
but whether their stakes be scattered or com-
pact, it is their duty to be personally ac-
quainted with all the work and all the work-
ers under their supervision, to know all the
conditions of the people, and to be able to
outline such policy and direct such labor as
the circumstances of their people seem to
require.
	It will be apparent that the organizations
having the most work to perform in a char-
ity sense are those located in and near the
larger cities, Salt Lake, Ogden, etc. In fact
the first Relief Society stake organization of
the Church was that of the Weber stake
where Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided with
untiring zeal for the welfare of the people
for 31 years. Besides overseeing the affairs
of the many wards in that large stake,
she personally visited hundreds of homes to
alleviate suffering and took to her own home
and provided for the immediate wants of
countless transients and wayfarers. Her re-
sidence in Ogden was so near the railway
station that she never had to look far for op-
portunity to give relief. She only retired
from her arduous work when Weber stake
was recently subdivided and new organiza-
tions were formed—and this when she had
reached the glorious age of 86 years in the
cycle of life.
	The original Salt Lake stake Relief Socie-
ty was presided over 27 years by that most
worthy and benevolent woman, Mary Isa-
bella Horne, whose name will ever be re-
vered among the women of Zion for the wise
counsel, her tender ministrations to the sick
and those who were called to mourn, and
for the wonderful skill and prudence with
which she directed the charity and business
affairs of the association under her charge.
It was under the direction of Mrs. Horne
that the class of Relief Society Nurses was
inaugurated, with Dr. Roberts as instructor
and Mrs. W. W. Riter as superintendent, the
purpose being to provide trained help for

[Column 3]
the needy sick instead of relying altogether
on the Relief Society workers, who already
had so much to do. Out of that part of the
vineyard over which Mrs. Horne presided
with such signal ability, six stakes have
since been created—Jordan, Granite, Liber-
ty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign.
	The stake Relief Society of the first-named
is presided over by Mrs. Hildah H. Larsen.
Composed mostly of a farming community,
the people generally, while not rich, are not
poor; and the labors of the Society are di-
rected more to taking care of the sick than
in relieving want.
	A large part of Granite stake, like Jordan,
is rural; but there is also a large part thick-
ly settled by renters and people of unstable
incomes—those who work hard when work
is to be had but depend largely on the con-
dition of the times for their employment.
The Society in this stake is presided over
by Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff and the labors
of the organization are many and varied.
Some of the most interesting conferences of
women held in the Church are held in Gra-
nite stake, and splendid efforts are being
made to educate the women along the lines
of Church history and biography. Clothing
is gathered in large quantities, and a work
department renovates and makes over gar-
ments to be given out to the poor in the
stake.
	The Liberty stake Society is presided over
by Mrs. Annie S. Musser, and it consists of
eight wards. Among other things under-
taken by this organization is helping the
poor in their temple work, those who have
not the time and means for genealogical re-
search and subsequent work for the dead,
being assisted by the Society. A certain day
once a month is given by the women for
temple work for the poor, and thus the bles-
sings and ordinances for the dead have been
and are being bestowed upon hundreds,
through the labors of these good women.
Like the Society in other parts of this city,
the poor they have always with them, and
they are found ever ready to extend a help-
ing hand and give comfort to those who
need. Their average annual disbursement
for charity is about $1,000, but their minis-
trations in distress cannot be counted in
dollars and cents. A unique work done in
this stake is in the direction of an employ-
ment bureau for girls. In each ward some
woman has an office desk where she takes
the names of girls desiring work and the
names of places where girls can find suitable
employment; the Society in this way retain-
ing a supervision and watchcare, to some
extent at least, over the working girls. This
admirable plan is still in embryo, but it is
certain to be the means of accomplishing
much good.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon presides over
the Pioneer stake Relief Society. The peo-
ple residing in this stake are largely of the
laboring class, there being few of wealth and
many of the poor. The Society distributes
annually something like $1,300 in charity;
and when one reflects that this amount is col-
lected almost entirely by the teachers in their
regular visits from house to house, and gather-
ed in small sums from those who are them-


[Column 1]
selves none too able to give, it is a literal
instance of ‘‘the poor helping the poor.”
There are 11 wards in the stake, three of
them on the west side of the Jordan river.
These districts during a large part of the
year are very hard to visit, on account of
there being no sidewalks or railroads; but
the women who act as teachers flounder pa-
tiently through the snow and mud in calling
at the different homes on their mission of
comfort and help, and many instances might
be cited where the coming of these unselfish
and generons women has seemed to be in
very deed the visit of ministering angels.
Three times since the organization of the
stake have the wards joined to help families
whose homes had been destroyed by fire,
and in one case the Soiety in one week raised
about $500 towards building a home for a
widow with little children. The stake So-
ciety has a library of fine reference books
which are circulated among the members for
their assistance in the department of moth-
ers’ work and for the education of the women
of the stake along all benevolent and pro-
gressive lines.
	Mrs. Harriet B. Harker is president of the
Salt Lake stake Relief Society, having re-
cently been called to that position, to succeed
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer
of the board, who resigned the office to which
she was appointed at the organization of the
stake. The work in this stake in charity is
similar, of course, to that in the other parts
of the city, with perhaps this distinction
that more help to the really poor who are
not members of the Church is given here
than elsewhere. This is because the stake
includes districts in the thickly settled parts
where tenement houses and and cheap lodg-
ing places prevail. The teachers’ work in these
districts are very arduous, and their experi-
ences at times are well nigh heartrending,
for here is found the nearest approach to the
slum conditions, and the real poverty of the
big cities, and the relief workers find much
to do and sometimes great difficulty in the
doing. A great missionary work is being
done in this stake, a number of sisters hav-
ing been called to labor among the people
as missionaries, to visit the different homes
and talk of the gospel and its beauties, and
thus to spread the spirit of the work. The
mothers’ department is also most interest-
ing; outlines touching on almost every sub-
ject that would be helpful to the mother in
rearing her family having been prepared and
lectures being given and discussed in special
mothers’ meetings—all of which has led a
large number of young mothers into Relief
Society work. This stake also has a special
department for Book of Mormon study, and
once a month the Society meets for this pur-
pose. Salt Lake is one of the few stake or-
ganizations where meetings are held weekly;
but as the work grows, so grows the necessity
for more time to be devoted to it.
	The Ensign stake Relief Society is presided
over by Mrs. Margaret A. Romney. Here dwell
the wealthier population of Salt Lake City,
but within its boundaries are also included
some poor and thickly settled districts, in
which there is ample opportunity for charit-
able effort and for the disbursement of a
considerable sum from the Relief Society
fund. The organization in this stake has
splendid material for mothers’ department
work, and most interesting lectures are given
in the different wards for the help of the
young home-maker. The sick are visited,
the mourners comforted, and every duty re-
quired of these kind workers in helping to
build up the people spiritually is cheerfully

[Column 2]
and promptly performed. The stake meet-
ings are excellent in spirit and are always
marked by a fine attendance.
	Allusion has here been made to only half
a dozen out of the vast number of organiza-
tions which exist throughout the Church;
but enough has probably been said to show
that the stake president, wherever her
field of labor may be, has full opportunity
for the exercise of originality of thought and
energy of action in meeting the conditions
by which she is surrounded. Surely the du-
ties devolving also upon Relief Society work-
ers are anything but insignificant. The ne-
cessities of the poor, the necessities of the
sick and the afflicted, the necessities of the
erring,and of those that lack understanding,
and the endeavor to implant in their hearts the
testimony of the Spirit of God—to look after
these things is the duty of Relief Society
workers. As to the system of organized
charity which they pursue, nothing could be
more perfect. With a band of women visit-
ing regularly every home in their respective
districts for the express purpose of finding
out the different needs and ministering to
them, there is no chance for the existence of
actual and unrelieved want; and the true
Christian spirit of love and help for one’s
fellow man is the real spirit and watchword
of Relief Society work. It follows, therefore,
that there could be no grander or better
school for women than in the work which
the Society affords. It teaches unselfishness,
pity, mercy, kindness and love—it is an in-
spiration to the soul to progress and learn
all the good in life and then to impart that
good to others. Surely. “Charity never
faileth.”		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


