[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES. | Author: EMMELINE B. WELLS,]

A SKETCH OF THE JAREDITES.

	In the days of Shiblon, because of the
iniquity of the people, many prophets ap-
peared and foretold the woes that would
mark the extinction of the race. Civil wars
and robber bands did their part; famine and
pestilence followed. Finally the king was
slain and his son Seth taken into captivity.
Seth was the next rightful heir to the
throne, but he was kept in captivity the
rest of his life.
	Ahab, the son of Seth, was the next
monarch. He was a wicked king, but his
reign was brief. His son Etham succeeded
him.
	In Etham’s days many prophets came
again to raise their warning voices. They
prophesied of the destruction that would
surely come upon the wicked if they did
not turn from their iniquity, but they heed-
ed not the words of the heaven inspired
messengers, and they withdrew from
among them. When Etham died his son
Moron succeeded the throne.
	Moron, like his father Etham, was a
most wicked king. During his reign the
robber bands which at that time flourished
among the people, led a rebellion amongst
the people and wrested from him his king-
dom, but after many years he succeeded in
defeating them and regained possession of
his kingdom. He was again defeated and
carried into captivity.
	Coriantor was the son of Moron, and was
held in captivity all his life. This was a
period of sin and war. He was the father
of the Prophet Ether. Ether was the last
great prophet of the Jaredites, to whom we
are indebted for the history of that race,
that once mighty nation.
	In the days of Coriantumr, the last of the
Jaredite kings, the Prophet Ether raised
his warning voice, but all his words were
rejected by that fast decaying nation. They
cast him out from their midst, and he spent
his days in a mountain cave. While he
was thus hiding he wrote the history of his
times and people. These were troublous
times indeed for the war which commenced
in the first year of Ether’s concealment
lasted until the nation was destroyed, men
and women fighting with the same intense
hate.
	In the second year of the war Ether
again appeared among the people and de-
clared if they repented not they should all
be slain except Coriantumr. They were
angry with him and sought to take his life,
so he again retired to his place of conceal-
ment. 
	In the third year Shared, a leader of the
revolutionists, defeated Coriantumr, and
held him a prisoner. In the fourth year
the sons of Coriantumr released their father
and placed him again on the throne. 
	At last the vast armies of Coriantumr
and Shared met in the valley of Gelgal and
fought for three days, the king was victor-
ous. One battle followed another, year
after year, millions fell before the last ter-
rible struggle ended, when Coriantumr
stood alone, the sole representative of his
race, the last and final battle being fought
near the hill Ramah, (Cumorah, N. Y.)


[Column 1]
to the children yet unborn along this
heroic line of ancestry.
	Yet so it was, and doubtless there is an
underlying purpose in this; and these 
societies are becoming more and more
numerous and their influence and strength
will correspondingly increase. They are
not, as has been said, “mutual admiration
societies,” nor are they for tea and gossip,
but for closer, fellowship and active service
along the lines of higher views, of united
patriotic efforts for the larger freedom and 
comradeship of all mankind.
	In our work we must strive to give
some object lessons as well as history and
legends for the children, who are only par-
tially acquainted with the facts pertaining
to the establishment of the independence of
our country, or we shall fail in the pur-
poses we expect to achieve. Assuredly it
is the conscientious desire of every woman
in the society (and let us believe it will be
of all who will hereafter become members)
to so engraft the principles of freedom and
right in the souls of the children of these
mountain vales, and stamp upon their lives
and character such lessons in childhood and
youth that no storms upon the voyage of
life, or clamor of heresy, or wars of people
shall ever destroy or uproot the principles 
thus wrought into their souls; but that they
may be transmitted to their posterity unto
the latest generation that may inhabit this 
chosen land of America.
	Without going into details allow me to
state that in my opinion we should collect
from time to time, as we have opportunity,
specimens of workmanship or heirlooms
that may help us to appreciate the past, and
give us better ideas of those primitive times
when the life of the people was more sim-
ple and the great inventions of this age had
not yet become a part of the newer civiliza-
tion. We are not privileged in this respect
as those are in the older states, who are up-
on the stamping ground of the great his-
toric battles; and many relics of that valiant
age are handed down in the old Colonial
families, or collected and preserved in 
museums and such like places for the bene-
fit of the public. From these scenes and
associations we in this Western land are far
removed geographically, but we may ob-
tain from relatives and friends some of these
precious mementoes.
	If we cannot surround ourselves with
such object lessons there is active work we
can do in other directions, which will open 
up to us undoubtedly, and meantime we
can become more familiar with the past his-
tory of our own country by lectures, study
and discussion in our society, and acquaint-
ing ourselves with biographies of the men
and women who figured conspicuously in
affairs of this nation and its struggle for
independence.
	The Declaration of Independence itself is
a subject for study, probably we do not re-
member even the names of the signers of
that sacred instrument of progress in the
world’s history.
	As women we cannot be too grateful
and reverent to the memory of such women
as Abagail Adams, of revolutionary dis-
tinction, who so long ago when woman’s
legal rights had not been even agitated as a
part of civilization, urged her husband in
the most emphatic language to accord to
women justice in the establishing of the new
government. She was the first American
woman who thus protested against the in-
equality of sex in political matters. Writ-
ing to her husband in March 1776, who

[Column 2]
was then in the Continental Congress, she
said: “I long to hear you have declared an
independency, and by the way in the new
code of laws, which I suppose it will be
necessary for you to make, I desire you
would remember the ladies, and be more
generous to them than your ancestors have
been.” Her language on this subject both
in conversation with the men of her time
and in her letters to correspondents was
strong, and her opposition to the old laws
so determined that she even threatened to
foment rebellion unless the rights of her sex
were secured, and declared women would
not hold themselves bound to obey any
laws in which they had no voice or repre-
sentation.
	It is due to the moral courage of such
women and those of the 19th century with 
whose names we are more familiar, and to
the generous spirit of the men of this West-
ern country that we are privileged to enjoy
political equality. With this advantage
we should be better equipped for the work
along this line, and make ourselves and
this society a power in the political economy
of the State and as a part of the great
body politic throughout the United States,
not forgetting those of our sex deprived of
the ballot who are anxiously looking to us
to help them along these lines of political
liberty and direct representation in the
government.
	May it be our privilege to render noble
service whenever and wherever opportunity
is given, and be ready at all times to stand
by the Constitution of our country, uphold
its laws and honor the flag, and be ready to
defend it from foes within and foes without.
	In conclusion let us pay our tribute of
respect to the General Society of the Daugh-
ters of the Revolution who so generously
extended to Utah the right hand of fellow-
ship, and in the name of the Utah society
through its Regent in her inaugural address
bid them God speed in the magnanimous
work they have so auspiciously under-
taken. And while remembering all its
representatives tender our love especially
to Miss Sarah E. Hunt, its vice president,
who so graciously honored us with her
gentle presence and sweet words of en-
couragement and sympathy, which we shall
never forget during her brief sojourn in
Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West, in
July 1898.	
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
Regent of Utah Society Daughters of the
	Revolution.
Given at a meeting held January 16 1899.


