[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Coverlets]
The Early American Coverlets
By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. of U.
AS all things early-American increase in popularity the coverlet of our grandmother comes back into its own. A large majority of American families cherish at least one such heirloom woven either for or by an industrious ancestor. Far greater than mere family or antiquarian interest, however, is the genuine beauty of these masterpieces of textile art. The things made by our forefathers and their neighbors show how they lived and vivify their times. The impulse to know our past gives rise to the general interest in early American textiles. Historical societies and many private collectors are devoting themselves to finding and preserving the work and names of many kinds of early American craftsmen, and foremost among them are the coverlets and the coverlet weavers.
Much has been discovered about these weavers and their work. We know that hand-woven coverlets as coverings for beds were a part of the household furniture of our forefathers in America from the earliest days down to about the time of the Civil War. In the great houses of the South the mistress of the mansion superintended the weaving of coverlets; likewise, in the smaller homes of the North and West, each woman did her own weaving. As a spontaneous expression of beauty the coverlet is to America what the rug is to the Orient. In fact, Oriental rugs and American coverlets have more in common than their folk origin. The eight pointed star and the pine tree borders, so common in Colonial coverlets, are to be seen in rugs from the East. The original symbolism of design has been forgotten, but it is interesting to note that our pine tree is very much like the Egyptian Dibu, a pillar of the sky, emblem of Osiris and of the eternal duration of the dead. The Colonial weavers used traditional designs brought from their homelands, but the question of their origin of design and ornament is ever a puzzling problem for the wise.
