[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Annie Wells Cannon]
Annie Wells Cannon, Chairman
Lesson Outlook for 1938-39
By Annie Wells Cannon
THERE is no department in the educational system of our Relief Society that requires more prayer, more faith, more sincerity of thought, or more devotional study than the teaching of Theology to Latter-day Saint Women?the mothers in Israel.
The taking up of a lesson is like the beginning of any kind of work. If you are making a garment you do not ruthlessly cut into the material without a pattern and as you lay the material and pattern before you, you consider how best to fit it to the circumstances and conditions at hand. We are not a part of the curriculum of an ordinary school or university with arranged classes of equal ages and grades of education, but the membership of our classes are mature women from every walk of life, of many nationalities and different degrees of advantages and opportunities, whose minds and souls alike we are endeavoring to enrich and benefit. This great democratic group gathered together in our meetings has met primarily with the same desire, to build up the Church and to learn of the ways of the Lord.
In the preparation of outlines the aim has been to give the material of "The Ministry of the Ancient Apostles" as effectively as possible, to place in your hands to mould and fashion as you will. First you have the lessons in the Magazine, and if you had no other guide than your own Bible you would be well provided, but these together with our Church scriptures and the more recent books by our own theologians furnish a wealth of material.
Giovanni Papini when writing his Life of Christ used few reference books. He states in his preface that he based his book on the Gospels, "as much let it be understood the synoptic Gospels (Matthew, Mark and Luke) as on the Fourth. We have no older nor any other documents?contemporaneous, Jewish or Pagan?which would permit us to correct them or deny them. The most famous New Testament authorities agree on only one thing; that the church was able to select from the great mass of primitive literature the oldest Gospels thought up to that time to be the most reliable. No more need be asked."
The first two lessons in the new course are like an introduction or foreword to the text to follow, giving a clear view of the background of the people and a description of the countries visited by the apostles. Thus we have a setting of those lands where the apostles taught in response to the injunction placed upon them by the Savior when He visited them after His resurrection, "Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world."
I would admonish you to seek for yourselves a testimony of the divinity of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the Gospel was restored, that you may have a deeper and clearer understanding of the lessons you teach.
