[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]
3. Why is the use of alcohol so LESSON DEPARTMENT particularly harmful, aside from the bad effects upon the body of the user?
4. Aside from the peculiar personality of alcoholics, show how life circumstances contribute to the habitual use of alcohol.
5. What do you consider is the most serious aspect of the use of tobacco? Do you consider the use of tobacco sinful, and why?
6. Discuss the wisdom of closing the doors of the Church to tobacco users.
7. Show why a good mental outlook is the most important condition for good health.
8. Make a thoughtful survey of your own health habits. Jot down a few ways in which you can improve them.
References for Further Study
1. Crane, G. W. Psychology Applied, pp. 97-104. Chicago: Northwestern Univ. Press, 1932.
2. Fisher, Irving, and Fisk, E. L. How To Live. New York: Funk Wagnalls.
3. Higginson, G. D. Fields of Psychology, pp. 407-416. New York: Henry Holt, 1931.
4. Miles, Walter R. Psychological Factors in Alcoholism. Mental Hygiene, Oct., 1937, Vol. 21, pp. 529-548.
5. Poffenberger, A. T. Applied Psychology. New York: Appleton, 1928.
6. Rhodes, Winifred. A Broken Spirit Drieth Up the Bones. Readers Digest, Feb., 1937, p. 104. (For original article, see The Forum, January, 1937.)
7. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 222-228. New York: Macmillan, 1936.
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Growth Through Family Relationships By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
GROWTH must be maintained steadily from infancy to old age. Absence of growth is stagnation. Family relationships must be so planned as to provide due opportunities for the growth of each member of the family. No one member of the family should grow at the expense of the others.
I. Parents must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their children, as sometimes happens when the latter are neglected or turned over to a servant in order that the mother may "go out" more. In extreme cases, children are even deprived of proper education in order that they may relieve the parents of work which the latter are perfectly well able to do, or to get done otherwise. A commoner form of parasitism is illustrated by the parent who "moves in" on a young couple unnecessarily.
II. Children must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their parents. Every parent worth the name is prepared to make sacrifices to promote the welfare of his children, but in the normal case these sacrifices are really to the advantage of all concerned. It is not easy to draw the line between such a normal situation, and the abnormal one in which a parent goes without needed comforts in order, for instance, to give a child a snobbish type of so-called education which will really unfit him for life in the future, while it teaches him to be unappreciative of his parents in the present.
III. One child must not be allowed to grow at the expense of another. A daughter, for instance, is sometimes sacrificed to a son; she is forced to leave school and take a job below her natural level, in order that her brother may get an extravagant or inappropriate education, may travel, or may be aided to set himself up in business. Being thus forced into a blind alley, the girl jeopardizes her own future economically, loses the friends and associates that she ought to have, perhaps drops out of church activities, and spoils her chances of a satisfactory marriage. Sometimes, of course, the shoe is on the other foot: the boys may be sacrificed to allow a daughter with musical or dramatic pretensions to waste time and money as poser and loafer. The rule of "One for all and all for one" must be applied evenly.
Growth is favored by: (1) New experiences. No member of a family should be allowed to get into a rut. A young couple must not "settle down" after marriage. Marriage is a dynamic affair,?a continuous interplay of two continually growing and expanding personalities. Young mothers are most likely to get into a rut, because of their home responsibilities. (2) Fair division of the family income. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (3) Absence of over-possessive and over-dominant patterns in either partner. The two factors last mentioned will be considered again in Lesson No. 7.
It is well to check up from time to time and make sure that each member of the family is getting due opportunities for growth in: (1) Intelligence. Good books and magazines, association with the world's activities, and contact with superior people,?these priceless things are accessible to everyone, virtually without other expense than a little imagination and enterprise. (2) Physical health. Sunshine, fresh air, water, exercise, sleep, wholesome food, avoidance of dissipation,?these essentials are as vital to the parent himself as to the child. (3) Mental health. This likewise involves continuous growth, and many troubles of daily life are due to the fact that emotional development has not kept pace with intellectual and physical development. A man may be six feet tall, weigh 200 pounds, be considered highly intelligent; yet his emotional life may be about like that of a normal six-months-old baby,?self-centered, recognizing no rights of others, ready to have a tantrum whenever he fails to get his own way. The "baby doll" type of young woman is equally well known; later she becomes a "40-year-old Shirley Temple," and finally a "flapper grandmother." Indeed, failure to grow up emotionally is probably commoner in women, though more offensive in men: a woman who is cute and kittenish may be admired by some people who do not have to live with her, whereas a man who is cute and kittenish will be admired by no one except himself.
