[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and effectively, in other words, abundant living is the goal of man.
Some follow one avenue and some another, but to Latter-day Saints the Gospel of Jesus Christ points the way to the abundant life.
Women of the Church have been given the Relief Society through which the essentials of abundant living may be obtained.
Spiritual strength, opportunities for service, cultural and educational advancement, and wholesome social contacts, are to be obtained from active membership.
Through our organization we gain spiritual strength which is so necessary in order to live well and properly influence the lives of those about us.
Youth of today must look to parents for inspiration and guidance ?to mothers who stand firm upon the rock of faith in God. To live abundantly, we must learn the beauty of service.
Many desire to serve but they must be shown the way.
True service as interpreted by Relief Society does not mean just the giving of relief to the needy or the visiting of the sick and those who mourn, but it means living every day to the best of one's ability, giving of one's self for the good of others. In these days of trouble and strife there are those who need just a word of encouragement more than anything else. We all need the strength and courage of one another. We 757 need to pray, watch, think, speak and live hourly the kind of life that emanates peace, security and protection. The world is progressing rapidly in adult education. In this time of complicated affairs we need education that we may know how to live.
Almost one hundred years ago a Prophet provided the women of the Church with the opportunity for.
Adult education of the highest type.
Throughout the years knowledge. And intelligence have come to us until today we have courses of study comparable to any offered to women by any society or group. I am sure we are all most grateful for the social opportunities provided by our organization, for the privilege we have of building wonderful friendships, friendships that will last forever. I am most grateful for my membership in the Relief Society organization and I desire to see its benefits extended to all women. It is not for any special or select group but for all women of good moral standing. It is a great sisterhood filling our lives with joy and satisfaction. Our membership goal of one hundred thousand by 1942 deserves the support of every woman who now enjoys the benefits of Relief Society. I have a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that we are engaged in His work and I appreciate the opportunity to serve. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK IN EUROPE Counselor Amy Brown Lyman THE European Mission consists of twelve separate and distinct missions located in sixteen countries. Ina recent tour of the continent early this year we visited ten of these missions in the following order: Netherlands, French, Swiss-Austrian, Czechoslovak, West German, East German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian. Two, Palestine-Syrian, our smallest mission, and South African, our most distant one, we did not visit. In these twelve missions nine languages are used. It was most interesting to see 758 these various European peoples in their natural settings and observe their national and racial characteristics.
There is nothing truer, I think, than that the Gospel breaks down barriers and transforms strangers into friends, into brothers and sisters. In all our Church groups, in all of the fourteen countries, no matter what the nationality, culture, background or language, no matter what the race or temperament ? whether Germanic, Nordic, Celtic or Slavic?we found the same brotherly love and understanding, the same sympathetic interest, the same generous hospitality, all of which are the result of the spirit of the Gospel itself. It was marvelous to be associated with these foreign brothers and sisters; to feel the warmth of their spirits, and to observe their devotion to The Cause. I was deeply touched by the hospitality extended to us everywhere. We visited the people in their homes; we slept in their beds; we ate at their tables. I never felt more at home, nor more secure out of my own home. I knew that if I were ill or in need or discouraged, that help would be forthcoming. For the lovely Latter-day Saints in Europe I have a deep affection. My heart goes out to them in love and appreciation. I shall never forget their kindness to me. THE Relief Society has active organizations in all of the missions, and there is nothing more evident than that they have the real Relief Society spirit and the interest of the organization at heart.
They are loyal to the organization and love the opportunities it gives for development and self-expression. The entire membership, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE according to the 1937 report, is 4,642?just 7 more than the combined membership of six of our City stakes?Ensign, Bonneville, Granite, Liberty, Pioneer and Salt Lake. If all of the people who have ever belonged to Relief Society in the European Missions could be listed, it would reach many more thousands, and we could visualize what they have contributed to the organization all down through the years. For a hundred years emigration has been going on, constantly reducing the size of branches and membership rolls.
Today the plan is to build up Zion in Europe. We have local leadership in all Relief Society organizations, both in the districts and branches. EIders are no longer needed for supervision or for presiding. Relief Society meetings are held weekly and in the evening. It is necessary to have evening meetings because many of the members work and others have little children whom they cannot leave.
This plan interferes with the work meetings, but much of the sewing for bazaars is done at home, and special days are occasionally used.
Visiting teaching is very limited due to the scattered conditions, long distances and transportation expense.
Union meetings are almost impossible due to the same reasons. A new plan is being inaugurated this year to hold branch Union meetings to develop branch leadership and teacher-training. The regular courses of study are the same as in the stakes. The testimony meetings here are especially good.
Most of the women are converts, and they have gained their testimonies through the fire of conversion.
They know what they believe, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE why they believe, and they can express their beliefs. The Relief Society women in Europe are interested in, and well acquainted with, the social security programs of their various countries.
They keep informed on all social welfare activities generally and are able to help people who are in any kind of distress.
They know what can be done for children, orphans, sick, aged, tubercular, unemployed, etc. The charity funds which are raised by the Society for charity work are used largely to supplement government and county relief.
With these funds they are able to take care of extra needs which would not otherwise be provided for.
There is of course poverty everywhere in the world but in most of the European countries they are trying to do something about it?something besides mere temporary relief.
They are trying to do constructive, preventive work and are developing fine social security schemes.
There is also some unemployment everywhere, more in Great Britain probably than on the continent. All countries are keeping their work for their own people. It is impossible for foreigners to get a job anywhere.
Great interest is being taken in all countries in child welfare and in the youth movement. The birth rate is so low in many countries they are greatly worried and are determined to save every child. The Relief Society organizations are presided over by the wives of the Mission Presidents? a group of as fine and able women as can be found anywhere in the Church. As for humility, devotion to the Cause, and spirituality, they cannot be surpassed. Six of 759 them are young?enthusiastic, eager, vigorous.
Three are between the ages of 27 and 30; three are between the ages of 30 and 40. The rest are older with years of experience in auxiliary work.
These women are all tender and sympathetic and assist their noble, kind-hearted husbands?the Presidents of the Missions?in watching over the health, happiness and general welfare of the missionaries. I wish to impress upon the mothers the fact that their sons and daughters are in good hands in the European Mission. ONE of the greatest joys of my missionary work was the close association with the missionaries.
They are a constant source of satisfaction and exhilaration. It was a joy to see them grow and develop and assume responsibility, to share their confidences and to hear their testimonies. I am stimulated and my faith is strengthened with the testimonies of the mature and aged, from-whom we expect to hear of strong convictions, but I am especially stimulated with the testimonies of young men and women.
Their frankness, earnestness and new understanding are most faith promoting. I have heard them raise their voices in the various countries and in various languages, and I have heard them night after night in Hyde Park where they have to win their audiences, hold their audiences, and defend themselves from the professional hecklers.
Since preaching the Gospel is the most important work of the Church, I have sometimes wondered if we, as mothers and members of Relief Society, generally might give a little more understanding help to the Priesthood in this great cause, both in our own homes and in Church activities, and if we might be more 760 helpful to the missionaries themselves. I wonder also if we of the older generation stop to realize what "going on a mission" means to young boys and girls.
What preparation they should have before they go, what attention they should have ' while they are away, what consideration they should receive when they return home! To the young Elder, a mission is a series of new experiences, and often serious adjustments from the time of "the call" until he is back and established in his normal setting in his community. He has tests of all sorts, sacrifices to make, new and different situations to face, new worries and longings. He is determined to make good; he is determined to live up to all the expectations of family and friends. He feels most humble, more humble than he has ever felt before, and he seeks his Heavenly Father as he has never sought Him before. I would like to make a plea for more interest in the returned missionary: First, that he be given attention, plenty of Church work to do, plenty of Church responsibility. He has been working full time and enthusiastically for the Cause, and he would like to continue to do something. His interest should not be allowed to wane.
Many young missionaries dread the ordeal of getting back into the community life, for the change is drastic.
They wonder how they will be received, and how they will fit in. Second, I would plead that interest be taken in his temporal affairs.
There are quite a number of missionary sisters returning yearly to their homes.
These would be great assets as helpers in the women's organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE | I am persuaded that we do not, as a rule, begin the training of our missionaries early enough.
What a fine thing it would be if all boys and girls from childhood up could have opportunity to take the lead in family prayers, to pray in public, to become familiar with the scriptures, to take part in auxiliary work, and the boys in Priesthood activities. It is an easy matter in the mission field to ? tell which of the missionaries have had these advantages. In England there is Bible reading and discussion in the schools, which is a marvelous help in familiarizing the children with the scriptures. A few years ago a young Utah boy wrote home from a military school to his mother: "I am the only boy here without a Bible. All the boys read the Bible, why was I not trained to do so?" I am pleased to report that we have forty women missionaries in Europe today, and that they are doing excellent work?work that is equal in many respects to that of the Elders.
They are especially helpful in the auxiliary organizations. In their travels they make splendid contacts.
Allin all I think the work and the situations are a little harder or more difficult for them in Europe than they are for the Elders, and I would like to pay them a little special tribute for their courage and willingness to face so bravely the "ups and downs" of missionary life. If preaching the Gospel is the most important work in the Church, and we are told emphatically that it is, let us continue to support it vigorously, both as mothers and as Relief Society women.
 
General Session Thursday, p.m., October 6, 1938 ADDRESS Bishop LeGrand Richards M* heart thrills when I think of the wonderful program prepared for the Saints of this dispensation, which was so minutely described by the prophets who lived thousands of years ago.
They saw all that we are seeing today.
They saw the gathering of the Saints in the valleys of the mountains when the Lord should turn again to Israel, as stated in the words of Jeremiah when he said: "And I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion; and I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding."
They saw the temple established here; they saw the settlement of these valleys in the Rocky Mountains; they saw the wilderness blossom as the rose, and the waters flow down from the high places through the building of the great reservoirs; they saw the rivers of water flow in the desert?these great irrigation canals that have been built.
They saw the Kingdom of God established in the earth; they saw it rise in might and power and majesty until all the kingdoms of this world should be made subservient unto this kingdom. Now when we read these things and understand them, we realize something of the great assignment the Lord has made to His people?Latter-day Israel. I am proud of this Church; I am proud of her institutions; 1 am proud of her people. I am proud of the youth of Zion, and I think we have much to be grateful for. It has been my privilege to labor with the young people of the Church in the mission field, and they are worthy to call the world to repentance. When I think of the fine organizations that have been set up and try to analyze the organization of the Church, I ask myself this question, '""What more could Jeremiah have seen, when he saw the Lord bringing them one of a city and two of a family to be taught of His ways, than the great organization that now exists in this Church?" One has to be intimately acquainted with each organization to know how marvelously it is set up and directed and qualified to carry on the work that has been assigned to it. We could not dispense with any one of them.
When the Prophet Joseph was given the marvelous revelation on the organization of the Church, he was told that it was patterned after the organization that exists in heaven. No wonder we pray, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven." The only thing, my brothers and sisters, that I am concerned about is whether we are using to the greatest advantage the instrumentality within our reach?the great organization of the Church?for the overthrow of evil, for the accomplishment of righteousness, for the establishment of the kingdom, that His will might be done in earth as it is done in heaven. As long as there are disturbing 762 influences, as long as we are losing ground in any one field of activity, there is a call to service. Since I was appointed, with my counselors, to the Presiding Bishopric of the Church six months ago today, we have had the privilege of meeting the executive officers and the presiding authorities of eighty of the stakes of Zion in regional meetings that have been held with the approval of the First Presidency. We are grateful to have had in these groups the presidents of the Relief Society. We have felt the power and the strength of the great Priesthood organization of this Church.
There is not a power under heaven that can stay the onward march of this Church. The men need the help of the women. The Lord has = said, through His servant, the Apostle Paul, that "the man is not without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord." It takes a man and woman united to make a perfect home, and when the Lord placed upon the Priesthood of this Church the responsibility of leadership, He automatically placed upon their wives also the responsibility of leadership. I have read to the brethren some of the admonitions of Paul with respect to the calling of a bishop, and will read just a few words to you today of what Paul has to say about the wife of the bishop. "A bishop then must be blameless, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach.... One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity; (For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the Church of Moreover, he must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have a good report of them which are without; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil....
Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers; sober, faithful in all things." No doubt many here today are wives of stake presidents, bishops and high councilmen, and I am somewhat concerned about the first organization of the Church ?the home. TAKE presidents hold weekly council meetings with their counselors to analyze, to discuss, and to plan ways and means to better conditions in their stakes. The same is true of the bishops and of all the auxiliary organizations. But I sometimes wonder if in our study, if in our endeavor to carry out the assignments that have been made to us in these auxiliary organizations, we are not giving finer leadership in the auxiliaries, more time to study, more time to planning than we are actually giving in our own homes?
Paul said that the bishop should be able to have his children in subjection with all gravity and should be able to set an example, or else how can he rule the Church of Christ? The Church calls for the finest leadership in the home, on the part of its leaders, and I feel its need. I have boys and girls, and I know that when they go out in the wards, to parties and to school, the hardest thing to meet is the report, "Brother So and So's daughter, or Brother So and So's son does this or that." You know how it is. You have met the same thing. I wonder if each of us is doing all he can to hold his own children in "subjection" and to teach them the way of eternal truth. I believe a lot of us are turning the responsibility of the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE leadership of our homes over to the Church, feeling that the auxiliary organizations will do the thing for us, and we are not planning with our children, and we are not making our program in the home, and we are not setting up standards and requirements for our children to live up to.
Some of us are believing our children when they tell us that we are "old fogies,' and that "they do not do things that way nowadays." I hope the day will never come when I will believe my son or my daughter if they tell me I am an "old fogy."
Bearing the Priesthood of the Living God, being called to preside in the midst of the Church, I cannot resign the leadership of my own home and then attempt to assume the leadership of the Church. Why am I talking about the home? I am talking about it because our statistics reveal that we are not getting all of our people.
Weare only getting a few of them, even in our auxiliaries and Priesthood quorums. We are marvelously organized to take care of those who come to us, but we are failing ina great measure to reach many who should come. I know it is often hard to get children to attend Sunday School, Sacrament meeting, the Mutual organization, and the Institutes and Seminaries. I hope that we are availing ourselves, as far as possible, of the opportunities that God, the Eternal Father, has put within our reach for the edification and the training of our children. I hope our boys and girls are availing themselves of the Institutes and the Seminaries that are being conducted under the leadership of this Church. We spend nearly $800,000 a year in our educational program to help parents with their children 763 and we have literally thousands of parents whose children are within walking distance of these great institutions who are not attending. I wonder if we have tried and failed, or if we just have not tried. The Mutual Improvement Association has its influence upon youth, and when I attend its meetings and see the young people who are there, yet so few of the parents, I wonder if the parents whose boys and girls fail to come could not take their children by the arm and lead them there, and in that way assure them the association of the type of boys and girls found in such places.
When your young people say to you, "Well, Daddy, they all smoke," you begin to fear that probably this habit is becoming more universal than we want to believe.
Then there is more need to call in our reserve forces in order to bring our boys and girls under the leadership of the Priesthood of God, so that they may be preserved in the traditions of the Church, in the standards that God has given unto us, so that they will not fall away into the ways of the world. "Oh well," you say, "What is a cigarette, or a glass of beer?" It would not be so bad if it were only one cigarette, or one glass of beer, but there never is a second without there is a first, and then there is a third and a fourth.
This means not only injury to the body, but the robbing of our children of manhood and womanhood, for liquor in my judgment is the most destructive thing that exists in the world which the Evil One may use to destroy the morals, the honor and the virtue of our youth.
When our boys and girls start using tobacco and liquor they also cease to pray, and in that respect they divorce themselves from God.
When a man, a boy or a girl stands alone and is subject to these bad habits, and prayer ceases to be a part of his daily life, it takes every effort to rescue him and bring him back to the Church.
SO I am pleading today that we study the family needs, that mothers?the wives of these leaders of the Church?go over the problems of each of their children. I do not think that God ever intended that we should put old heads on young shoulders, but making allowance for youth, He does expect that as parents we keep them clean and unspotted from the sins of the world, and that we keep alive within their breasts the love of God, the Eternal Father, and the desire to pray, so that when they go out into the battle of life they may be strengthened and protected, even as David of old. You will remember what became of Israel when they lost confidence in their God, the God of Israel, and when Goliath hurled forth his great challenge to the armies of Israel. One by one they withdrew, but little David had been taught to pray. He had seen the power of God manifest in his own life. He had been able to deliver his father's sheep from the mouths of the lion and the bear, and so when he heard that challenge he accepted it. David knew there was something stronger and finer and more powerful than steel. When he went forth clad as a shepherd lad, with his sling and a few smooth stones, Goliath laughed at him and was offended, and said, "Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves?" And David said to him, "Thou comest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. He shall deliver you into my hands." In a few moments Goliath lay dead at his feet. So if we can plant faith in the hearts of our children, and keep it there, and guard it with our sacred lives, we shall carry them through with a power and a strength greater than the sword and the shield.
I once read a sermon delivered by President Joseph F. Smith, and he said that in all his effort to save others he hoped it never could be said of him that in trying to save others he had lost his own, and I heard one of his sons say one day, "If I did not believe there was a God, if I did not believe there was an eternity, I would feel obligated to live the teachings of the Church because of the respect I have for my father." I believe that if men and women live as they should live that the power of God will be felt in the home. There are those who desire to go to the temple of God in order to partake of His divine influence, but it is my conviction that there should be no temple, no shrine, where the love of God and His Holy Spirit is to be found greater than in the homes where men and women are living as priests and priestesses, as God the Eternal Father intended they should. When they so live, they will demand the love, the respect, and the confidence of their children. If there is a home where the leaders of this Church do not engage in family prayer I call them to repentance. They need the prayers, and their children need the influence of family prayers. I would like to see in every Latter-day Saint home every child, after he has been baptized into the Church, take his turn praying. When I hear my children pray in family prayers I arise and say in my heart that as long as they can pray like that they will never stray from the Church and from God.
I pray the blessings of the Lord to be with you. I pray that we shall appreciate the great institutions of our Church?this great Relief Society organization and the other auxiliaries that have been created for our good, but I hope we will never forget that in the responsibilities that come to us none are greater, nor even equal to the leadership, the presidency of the home which God has given us, for there it is that we commence to build the kingdoms of eternity that are to be ours if we keep the faith and endure to the end.
I did not have to become the Presiding Bishop of the Church and meet Sister Robison and her associates to know the value of Relief Society, but I have learned to appreciate more than I did before the marvelous characters and the love these women have for service in the responsibility that is theirs. I honor them, and I pray God to bless them and all you good mothers and Relief Society workers throughout the Church.
Relief Society's Contribution to the Church Welfare Program