[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business meeting]

Work and Business meeting. Messages must of necessity be very brief. The stake board member in charge of the visiting teachers' message is to be responsible for the information from all departments being in the hands of the visiting teachers in her stake.
One aim of this work is to acquaint all homes visited with the educational opportunities afforded by the Relief Society and to arouse interest in the organization among those who are not members. The visiting teacher should be qualified to adequately represent the Society in her delivery of these messages. She should have a background of the history and achievements of the past, the movements it has initiated and sponsored, what it has stood for and now stands for in education, health for women and children, child welfare, social service, etc. And the great contribution it has made through patient, untiring and often unsung labor to the welfare of the Latter-day Saints and others.
The spiritual messages deal with "The Teachings of Jesus As They Affect Personality". In selecting these messages the thought was to call attention to the fact that there are no principles of conduct and attitudes more effective in developing and maintaining healthy minds and wholesome, well integrated personalities than the principles taught by Jesus. It is not expected that the visiting teachers can go deeply into the discussion of these principles, but she can leave the thought that Jesus taught faith?faith in one's self, faith in man and faith in the spiritual laws of God which are so worth finding; that faith is a constructive force and is a wholesome factor in personality. Jesus taught men to banish fear and anger and hate from their hearts. These are destructive factors and do great harm to the individual who harbors them. Jesus taught sensitivity to the needs of others, to be the good neighbor, not self-centered. The psychologist today would tell us, I am sure, that there is no greater panacea for unhappiness and discontent than to lose one's self in service to others. When Jesus said to His Disciples, "Ye are the salt of the earth," He meant for them to display the qualities of salt in their relationships to society, that is, to preserve the good, to purify the polluted and to add savor to the lives of others by good deeds. So a simple statement of the main thought is perhaps all the visiting teacher can make. But as stake leaders, give as much background as you have time for to your ward workers at Union meeting, emphasizing the fact that the message to be delivered must be brief, clear and simple.
We hope through these messages that the teachings of Jesus will take on new meaning for us, that we shall appreciate more fully than ever before their simplicity and their greatness.
The address "Jesus' Teachings as They Affect Personality" by Miss Hazel Peterson will appear in a later issue of the magazine.
Theology Department