[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]
President Louise Y. Robison presided over the Conference, which opened with a short meeting in the Assembly Hall, Temple Square, at 9:00 a. m., Tuesday, October 4. A hearty welcome was extended to the sisters in a brief address from President Robison before adjournment was taken to the various departments. The committees of the General Board spared neither time nor effort in the preparation of the various department meetings which were attended by a large and enthusiastic number of workers from the stakes and missions.
There were two sessions of the General Officers' meeting held in the Assembly Hall on Wednesday, October 5. The first convened at 9:00 A. M. and was devoted to the regular business of the Relief Society. One hundred and twenty stakes and thirteen missions responded to the roll call. The second session beginning at 10:30 was devoted to the special assignment given to Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program.
The first general assembly was held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday, October 5, at 2:00 P. M. At this session the music was furnished by a group of more than two hundred Singing Mothers from the California Mission.
Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, October 6. At the afternoon meeting special attention was again given to Relief Society participation in Church welfare. The music at all meetings should be given special praise for it was all of the highest order from the special instrumental and vocal numbers, especially appropriate to the various departments, to the Relief Society Singing Mothers under the able direction of Wade N. Stephens with Alta Cassity at the piano and Frank W. Asper at the great organ.
New Organizations
Date
Stake
President Appointed
April, 1938
Moon Lake (Taken from Duchesne Stake)
Margaret M. Pace
June, 1938
Portland (Taken from N. W. States Mission)
Birdie L. Bean
Aug., 1938
Seattle (Taken from N. W. States Mission)
May W. Milligan
Reorganizations
Date
Stake
Released
Appointed President
Sept., 1938
Bannock
Susan S. Turner
Anna Lloyd
June, 1938
Bear Lake
Margaret S. Hoge
Veda Shepherd
Sept., 1938
Bonneville
Pearl A. Daynes
Erma G. Clayton
April, 1938
Duchesne
Margaret M. Pace
Florence B. Madsen
May, 1938
Granite
Myrtle B. Latimer
Agnes M. Bolto
Aug., 1938
Grant
Anna S. Barlow
Lois D. Cannon
Sept., 1938
Juab
Florence R. Winn
Chloe N. Bailey
Sept., 1938
Lehi
Harriet M. Webb
Adela G. Fox
Aug., 1938
Lyman
Martha Field
Ellen Rollins
Sept., 1938
Moapa
Lois E. Jones
LaPrele Bunker
May, 1938
Morgan
Elizabeth Geary
May D. Rich
Sept., 1938
Mount Graham
Ethel D. Payne
Erma Stewart
Sept., 1938
Oakland
Sara H. Carruth
Anna Ellsworth
July, 1938
San Bernardino
Ethel Blomquist
Josie B. Bay
June, 1938
Shelley
Bessie Kelly
Annie B. Johnson
Sept., 1938
Taylor
Allie R. Jensen
Joyce R. Harker
Missions
Mission
President Appointed
Argentine
Coraine Williams
Australian
West German
Canadian
Susan G. Kelly
Brazilian
Della M. Judd
French
Emily J. Smith
Mexican
Lucy W. Bowers
South African
Norma S. Evans
Tahitian
Vera P. Anderson

Josephine H. Folland

Iona B. Stevens

Evelyn N. Wood
Opening Session
Greetings
President Louise Y. Robison
It is a genuine pleasure to meet so large a group of Relief Society workers this morning. I am not only grateful for your attendance at Conference, but I congratulate the Society on having as officers and board members the type of women who are here this morning.
The office of teacher or leader brings blessings twofold. Every effort made lifts one to a higher level and gives greater power. The Gospel teaches us that the way to perfection is going from one small degree to another, from one small capacity to a greater one. We are all familiar with the statement made by the Prophet Joseph Smith that, "You have to learn how to be Gods yourselves and to be Kings and Priests to God, the same as all Gods have done before." Teachers and leaders must study the Gospel and uphold its standards if they would stimulate the desire for higher life in those whom they teach or lead. Acceptance of service in Relief Society gives this glorious opportunity and the service rendered adds to one's progress.
This morning I am thankful that so many of my sisters are proving by their presence here that they are working for that perfection which is salvation. We have all proven the truth of the statement that, "The finest triumph of human life comes from facing a necessity and making it an opportunity." This challenge is before all teachers. Professor William James says, "To be interested in anything, get information about it." The General Board committees have tried to prepare that information. I pray that our Father will give us His Holy Spirit?that Spirit by which our minds are illumined?which transforms our weak efforts into power; not only that we shall be blessed, but that we may stimulate others to life more abundant.
Visiting Teacher Department
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
Preview and Instructions
By Amy W. Evans
THIS year instead of the
teachers' topic there are to be messages from the Relief Society delivered by the visiting teachers to all Latter-day Saint homes. These will consist of a spiritual message which will be given according to the outline in the Magazine, and information regarding the program of each of the educational departments and the
