[Vol25 | November 1938 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT He will ever live in the hearts of those who love strong men fighting for a cause which to them seems worthy. The Talisman is not one of 'the very greatest of novels, measured by the standards of today, but it is still a brave, good story. It pictures an era even though we cannot understand that era, and a group of persons who assist in making the Crusades, with all their futility, live for us. 779
Suggestions quickly put aside  and emotional. 1.
Give a brief Crusades. 2.
Have class memory weakening character sketches of Sir Kenneth, Saladin, Grand Master of the Temp. 3.
Locate on a map Jean of Arc and Ascalon. (Palestine) 4.
What are some of Scott's characteristics? Social Service Lesson 5 PSYCHOLOGY OF PHYSICAL HEALTH I. The Lesson in Summary. The proper care of the body is a religious duty because the body is the tabernacle of the spirit; it is a personal duty because one's ability to live a full life depends so much upon health; and it is a social responsibility because those upon whom we are dependent or who are dependent upon us require that we keep well. The Word of Wisdom is a partial guide to good health. It emphasizes moderation in all things as well as pointing out injurious substances. The use of alcohol is not only detrimental to mental functions and health, but it leads to all manner of evil social consequences. The personality of the alcoholic fits into a typical description.
Family adjustment has much to do with preventing drinking. The use of tobacco is particularly harmful in the effect it has on the standing in the Church of those who use it. Its use often signifies rebellion against restriction of the Church. A complete health program is much broader than the scope of the Word of Wisdom: it includes recognition of needs for exercise, elimination, rest, and proper ventilation.
Good mental condition fosters physical health, and good physical health fosters mental health. The serenity of faith and a genuine desire to live and serve are recommended as an essential safeguard of physical health. II. Proper Care of the Body is a Religious and Moral Duty. The spirit of man to fulfill its mission was clothed in flesh.
Proper functioning of his body is a condition for the most complete fulfillment of this mission.
From time to time, God has spoken with reference to the proper care of the body as the tabernacle of the spirit.
Only through the instrumentality of the body can the spirit gain experience and attain that growth for which earthly existence is designed.
Modern psychology has not answered the question as to how the mind of man functions in relation to the body, but it has shown clearly that mental states are greatly affected by the condition of the body, and the functioning of the body is likewise affected by mental states.
This fact was illustrated in our study of 776 are made to appvious lesson.
That noble women, who promotes mental loves of any fact too obvious to history, King discussion. engaria while religious obligation to but Scott for the body; the pernote of thtage of keeping well takes coadditional incentive the social reasons, such as the value of those intered in our care and to those interested in our care and to those whose existence is dependent upon our assistance.
Poor health is often extremely expensive in a financial way, and equally expensive in the social loss of our services to others.
Good disposition is difficult with poor health; the general adjustment of a family may be badly upset by the strain of even persistent mild illness.
Illness must come in many cases and we do well to meet it with good grace and courage; but much of the ordinary illness could be prevented if better health habits were acquired in youth, or even later in life. III. What Does the Word of Wisdom Contain?
When the Word of Wisdom was given to Joseph Smith in 1833, the attitude of the Latter-day Saints had not become clearly crystallized with reference to the use of the substances of which it speaks.
Tobacco was most commonly chewed rather than smoked at that time.
Background history of the Church has suggested that some of the brethren were accustomed to chewing tobacco, which practice was distasteful to Joseph Smith.
Upon inquiring of the Lord as to what attitude should be taken on this and other practices, the Word of Wisdom was given. In the preamble, it was stated that the Word of Wisdom was "To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom." (D. & C. 89: 2.) With continued practice in the Church and subsequent inspired statements, we have come to regard this revelation more as a commandment.
Perhaps in the beginning the Word of Wisdom was not meant to be one of the cornerstones of the Church, but as we shall see later it has come to have a very special significance in our religious lives.
Of the injurious substances, strong drinks are mentioned first, which means to us alcoholic beverages. Tobacco is mentioned next and is condemned as "not for the body, neither for the belly," from which we assume that the statement referred more explicitly to the tobacco chewing habit. Hot drinks are also condemned. We should think of this part of the revelation to cover not only tea and coffee, but all drinks of a temperature high enough to risk injury to the digestive system. Excessively hot drinks, whatever their composition may be, are known to have definitely injurious effects which sometimes contribute to certain gastric disorders. Herbs and fruits are recommended as wholesome, the modern equivalent of which is the emphasis of a balanced diet with considerable fruit and roughage in the form of fresh vegetables. Sparing use of meat is urged and finds support in modern dietetic practice. Notice that certain grains are recommended for various kinds of animal life and that they have been made for the "use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger." (v. 15.) This may be interpreted to mean moderation in satisfying our appetites, a detail of the Word of Wisdom often neglected, just as is the sparing use of meat.
IV. What Has Science Shown Concerning the Validity of the Pronouncement of the Word of Wisdom on Alcohol? We are concerned here LESSON DEPARTMENT principally with the psychological aspects of health and shall not enter into the studies which have mainly to do with medical investigation. First, as to alcohol, the case seems indisputably against its use. No mental functions are improved by the use of alcohol so far as the science of psychology has shown. Every kind of mental work is definitely impaired. There is, however, a certain courage that goes with moderate doses of alcohol which makes certain tasks more easily attacked. But this mental effect of alcohol is at once the most evil effect, for it gives a false sense of well-being which leads one to undertake tasks beyond reach, if not outright dangerous.
Prof. Walter P. Miles, now of Yale Institute of Human Relations, has made some extensive studies of the mental effects of alcohol in various quantities. He summarizes some of the effects as follows: "The peculiar charm of alcohol lies in the sense of careless well-being and bodily and mental comfort which it creates. It unburdens the individual of his cares and his fears; relieves him of his feelings of inferiority and weakness... The fundamental animal drives of the organism have free rein; the intellectual self-critic makes no strong pulls to the right, for he is dozing. Under such conditions it is easy to laugh or to weep, to love or to hate, not wisely but too well. Warmth of friendship may be expressed in ways seemingly appropriate but actually absurd. On the other hand, slight irritations, real or imaginary, cause outbursts of anger and may lead even to acts of physical violence.
"The increase in the tendency to sex offenses which alcohol induces has been noted from time immemorial... Under these conditions stimuli that would ordinarily claim but little attention or be quickly put aside easily arouse emotion and emotional expression. It is claimed by scientific observers in this field that alcohol has a particularly weakening effect on the control of the sex impulses in women and also that it positively increases the urgency of these impulses. Not only is sexual promiscuity more frequent among intoxicated persons but also an increase in the incidence of venereal diseases occurs because of the inability of more or less drunken persons to take necessary preventive measures.
"The selfish level of existence which characterizes the state of the inebriated person, is shown by the discomfort and distress which the drinker may bring upon the members of his family, on whom he is really dependent, in the cooperative activities of living. The realization of the meaning and value of the relationship between parent and child or between husband and wife resides primarily in the higher mental processes. When this mental level is depressed or dulled by a chemical agency, the irksomeness of care and of constantly sharing with others may stimulate irritation or even marked dislike and so result in harsh and sometimes brutal responses. Alcohol thus becomes a source of anger, hate, and fear, three powerful opponents to human happiness." (Miles, Walter R. Psychological Effects of Alcohol in Man. Chapter 10, pp. 263-264, Alcohol and Man, Edited by H. Emerson. New York: Macmillan, 1932. Quoted by Starch, et al, Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 226, 228.)
Thus we see that aside from the gradual undermining of health, both physical and mental, from the use of alcohol, there is a long train of evil social effects. The dare-devil attitude of drunken persons driving on our highways is a constant menace to the most careful drivers. In a study of the alcoholics admitted to one of our large hospitals, it was found that of seventy per cent of those admitted who were married most of them were unhappy in marriage, and were inclined to quarrel and bicker with their wives and to be indifferent toward their children. In the United States there are approximately forty times as many deaths from alcoholism as from chronic poisoning from all other substances. The damage to the human family is comparable to that of syphilis. In 1935, of all of the new admissions to mental hospitals, 11.2 per cent were alcoholics who had drunk to such excess that they required institutional treatment.
The alcoholic persons have a rather typical personality picture. They resemble the descriptions of "psychopaths" usually found in psychiatry manuals. They are deficient in life ambitions and are affected more by social pressure than by personal goals. They are inclined to be more self-conscious than the average and to be deficient in independence. Persistent application to difficult tasks is usually lacking, and they choose easy tasks in which the goals are within reach. Frequently they show food idiosyncrasies and are inclined to be light eaters. Their histories show a persistence of thumb-sucking in childhood and a tendency to pathological jealousy. In cities 85 per cent of the alcoholics are males.
What significance do all of these facts have for women, since alcohol is seldom a problem with them? The psychological reasons which lead to drinking are fairly well known and can be controlled to some extent by mental hygiene. Alcohol affords a retreat from reality for the person whose life is distasteful. We often hear people speak of "drowning their sorrows," and we have already seen that under the influence of alcohol the victim has a feeling of well-being, a numbing to physical and mental pains. Persons afflicted with a sense of inadequacy in business life can be "king for a day" under the influence of liquor. Particularly conducive to "retreating into alcoholic dreams" are unpleasant relationships in the home. One case is reported of a young man with very promising talents who goes into a perpetual series of drunken orgies whenever his mother-in-law comes to live with them. After she leaves, he refrains until her next visit. Psychiatrists seem fairly well convinced that incompatible home conditions are among the most common contributing causes to chronic alcoholism. Often drinking is simply a symptom of a marriage which has gone sour. Failure of the husband and wife to construct an enduring companionship on common interests and unfolding purposes is often the starting point for drinking.
Thus, the problem of alcohol becomes a great one because it strikes right at the roots of the most basic life adjustments men and women make. Not all drinking, however, is of this nature. Much drinking does not come to such serious ends, but is simply one of the forms of social intercourse. However, many more serious cases of alcoholism begin in this more innocent way. Later on, should life become intolerable for any reason, the soothing effects of liquor are known and are likely to be resorted to as a defense against a disagreeable world. If this retreat is not known, a better adjustment may be made.
V. What is the Psychological Significance of the Use of Tobacco? When we turn to science to check LESSON DEPARTMENT the validity of the Word of Wisdom on tobacco, we do not find such satisfactory evidence as was the case for alcohol. We learn that mental functions do not uniformly show bad effects of smoking, although some unmistakably do. The unsatisfactoriness of evidence on the question of the psychological effects comes partly out of difficulties in setting up proper experiments to check the true influences. No critical studies have been made over a long period of time to show whether the effects are detrimental to general mental alertness. However, we do find many studies which seem to indicate that the use of tobacco is associated with poor scholarship. There are fewer tobacco users among the most scholarly students. Certain factors must be kept in mind, however, such as the kind of personalities possessed by the best scholars and the kind of habits they have. Thus, poorer scholars are more sociable and are therefore more likely to be induced to use tobacco for social reasons. They also belong to more social groups and attend more gatherings where smoking is a form of social recreation. The student with a better scholastic record spends a good share of his time studying rather than participating in social activities.
These studies say nothing about the effects upon the physical health of the young, which are unquestionably not good. Diseases of the lungs and heart are perhaps more common among smokers than among nonsmokers. Space will not permit a more thorough consideration of this phase of the problem here.
Perhaps more important than the physical effects and the effect on mental functions, are the social effects of using tobacco. The habit of smoking has come to have profound significance to the Latter-day Saint because of the social meaning of the act. Smoking of a cigarette may not destroy the brain of the young man or woman, but it is deeply indicative of an attitude toward the Church. Dr. George H. Brimhall frequently said that a cigarette in the mouth was a "flag of rebellion against the Church." The seriousness with which smoking is regarded has probably grown because the practice is so easily recognized as a sign of open objection to the restriction of Church teachings; it is more easily detected than use of tea or coffee, or excessive use of meat. Smoking is considered a sign of throwing over all of the Church ideals, which may not be true. Frequently, however, the use of tobacco does signify a lack of faith in the fundamentals of the Gospel. Baptism is significant, not in the good that comes from the act as such, but because it signifies that one has had faith enough to repent and has followed repentance with an act that signifies obedience to the commandments of God. To refrain from the use of tobacco has somewhat the same significance. It signifies respect for the revelations, and a willingness to conform to what is required, whether it happens to be convenient with the spirit of the times or not.
VI. Some Aspects of the Word of Wisdom Need More Emphasis. Because of the great prominence of the subject of tobacco and liquor in our teachings, the overt signs of conformity, we have often underemphasized certain other statements which are valuable in preserving health. Excessive use of meat is not recommended, and perhaps the habitual over-loading of our stomachs with meat and rich foods is as injurious as any of the items mentioned in the Word of Wisdom. Moderation seems to be the keynote of the revelation. The use of fresh fruits and vegetables in proper balance is as important to our health as to refrain from tobacco. No person's religious education is complete until he can work out for himself the proper amount and variety of foods for his best good. Personal physical needs based on occasional physical examinations should be considered in this connection. The Word of Wisdom was not intended to be a complete guide to health. Such obvious health measures as proper elimination habits; proper ventilation of the house and open air activity, proper clothing, habits of exercise, and regular habits of rest were probably taken for granted. Our health habits, however, are usually no more enlightened and perfected than our other habits; and we have seen in the lesson on habit that there is always much room for improvement, even in such well practiced activities as reading.
VII. Good Mental Outlook is the Best Safeguard of Health. Usually when our bodies feel exhilarated, our spirits are buoyant; and when our bodies are full of poisons or lingering pain we feel depressed. Likewise, when an especially good turn of affairs comes our way, we feel good even in our bodies and our appetites pick up. We experience this kind of interaction between our bodies and our minds every day, but the most significant relationship between mental states and health comes from the "long pull" influence they have upon our health habits. Thus, when we are discouraged and depressed, we are likely not to attend to our regular health routine so religiously. We get careless as to what and when we eat. We do not attend to our habits of elimination; we may become irregular in retiring and going to sleep. We have no zest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for living and therefore no strong interest in keeping the body in the best of condition. Mental depression contributes to poor health habits, and they in turn contribute to the mental depression. This vicious circle may continue until we reach a breaking point and someone has to "shake" us out of it.
When you feel yourself becoming down-hearted, try hard to achieve a better state of health; and when you feel that your health is not quite up to par, do your best to create a happier frame of mind through doing a good turn to someone or entering into happy conversation and association with others. Falling ill may easily become a habit which becomes fixed in one's ways because it brings sympathy and attention. This is frequently a mark of emotional immaturity. Harboring thoughts of one's illness makes depressing conversation and actually exaggerates the ills one may have. Again we advocate the serenity of faith, the genuine desire to live and serve, as a mental condition conducive to good health. People with great purposes to drive them must keep well, they never play with the thought that to be ill might make life easier or more pleasant in some way. The desire to live to the fullest measure of one's creation makes one take every possible measure to keep well.
Problems for Discussion
1. Discuss the value of good health under the following heads: (1) as a religious duty, (2) as a personal duty, and (3) as a social responsibility.
2. Describe the personality most typical of the man who becomes alcoholic.