[Vol14 | April 1927 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Minidoka Stake (Fly Campaign) The Minidoka stake Relief Societies last year conducted a very successful campaign against flies.

Cooperation was asked of every housewife to help rid the community of the pest.

The newspaper gave freely of its space for publicity purposes, and the movement had the support and backing of city and county officials.

Early in April, stake and ward committees were organized for this work, consisting of the stake and ward executive committee.

A request was sent to the Idaho representatives, in Washington, D. C., for 500 bulletins on "The house Fly and How to Suppress It." When the pamphlets came, a house to house canvass was made, and a copy of the little booklet, together with a chart on nutrition, were left at every home in the stake.

While this was being done the stake committee secured a large quantity of air-slacked lime from the Paul Sugar Factory, through the courtesy of the Sugar company's field manager, President May.

Mayor Beymer, who cooperated so readily with the movement, sent trucks to haul the lime to vacant lots in Rupert and adjacent towns, there to be distributed among the people.

Everybody was asked to take a sack of lime from these piles on vacant lots and use it freely in outbuildings and all places where flies would be likely to breed.

The newspaper of Rupert published each week through the Summer an article about the filthy fly.

These articles recommended that all homes should be properly screened, and that fly traps should be used on the outside of the homes.

Following is a sample of publicity which was used: Fightt THE Fly O little fly, O vermin small, Most deadly insect of them all,; To thee I write this little verse, Your life and habits to rehearse.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 193 In barnyard waste you had your birth: In rankest filth you came to earth; For baby's milk you then took wing, And on the food you tried to cling.

Your feet were smeared with filth and slime, As on the table you did climb; And then you rubbed with impish glee, Your feet on all that you could see.

Then, after feeding on the cake, A bath in cream you thought you'd take.

You have no teeth, no fangs, no sting, Yet death to human lives you bring.

You are the vilest of the vile; Our health, our life, you would defile.

O, Imp of Satan, where you tread, Your path is filled with human dead. ?William A. Cole.

A most successful teachers' convention was held on October 2, with good representation.

The outline furnished by the General Board was used.

A blue ribbon was offered to every teacher who had made her visits 100 per cent.

It was found that seven teachers had never missed making a visit.

The convention covered the whole day, and consisted of a program in the morning, a luncheon at noon, and a social in the afternoon.

The stake adopted and forwarded to their representatives in the State Legislature a resolution petitioning the Legislature to build a suitable hospital at once for tuberculosis patients, the state of Idaho being the only one in the union that does not have a single tuberculosis bed.

Social Service Institutes Very successful Social Service Institutes have been held during the winter months in the following stakes: Logan,
Cache, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, Franklin, Oneida,
North Davis, South Davis and Blackfoot. The institutes have
each covered either five or six days, with four hours class
work daily, and have been conducted under the direction
of the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who
has been assisted by the following social workers from the
Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters : Mrs.
Annie D. Palmer, Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Anna Laura Stohl,
Mrs. Amy W. Evans and Mrs. Elizabeth Williams. The
classes have been made up of stake board members, ward
presidents and social service aids, with bishops or counselors
and supervising high councilmen. County commissioners
have also been in attendance. So keen has been the interest throughout, that at the close of each institute the members
have universally expressed their great delight in the
course, and have stated that the help and inspiration given
them would form the basis and beginning of future study on
social problems.
Snowflake Stake.
Following we give the aims of the stake board for 1926:
1. To plan and execute some special activity for board
members each month.
2. To plan and give outlines for definite work to be
put over in the wards.
3. To have each member of the board report in board
meeting on her special line of work at definitely appointed
times.
4. To make a special effort to secure larger contributions
for charity work.
5. To have a definite written program of instructions
to take to each ward upon visits.
6. Take up a special study of parliamentary rules, as a
board, and put over a simple usage in the wards.
7. To visit, unannounced, each ward twice, at least, during
the year; one visit on work and business day, the other
as seems best fitted to need of the ward.
8. To continue effort to have more efficient teachers'
work (a) by giving more thorough discussion of teachers'
topic at work and business meeting; (b) by continuing to
hold for 100 per cent visiting, 100 per cent preparation, 100
per cent attendance of teachers at work and business meetings,
(c) by occasionally checking and comparing results for
monthly visits.
9. To aid in making marked civic improvements in all
the communities.
10. To convert officers and members to the need of
maternity bundles.
Report of Summer's Work for 1926. Eight wards reported
having taken up "Home Improvement" projects as
outlined by the stake board. Only a few of them reported
hours spent in work. One of the eight did not give anything
definite. The total expenditure as reported by seven associations
was $13,057.40. Projects reported worked upon in
these associations are as follows : kalsomining, painting, new
roofs, new doors, lathing, cement work, coverings, flower
beds and bulbs, screens repaired, shrubs, new floors, plastering,
walks, built-in furniture, grafonolas, swings, books, magazines,
musical records, rugs, draperies, washers, windmills
and new houses under process of construction. During Spring, there was conducted a contest or drive in the literary
department of the stake. Wards reporting scored near
50 per cent, having read one complete work of Mark Twain's.
One ward, namely Woodruff, reported 100 per cent, having
read one complete work.
Malad Stake.
Mrs. Ella J. Richards, president of the Relief Societies
of Malad stake, reports a very interesting visit made by herself
and a fellow officer to the Washakie (Indian) branch.
It was on theology day, and Mrs. Amy Timbimboo, a native
sister, translated the lesson on "John the Beloved Apostle."
The visitors could not understand the words but could feel
the wonderful spirit accompanying the discussion. At the
conclusion of the meeting Mrs. Richards was handed an envelope
containing 12 beautiful handmade handkerchiefs which
the young women of the association had made, as gifts for
the stake board members. Mrs. Fredrickson, the state nurse,
is now in Malad, where she has done excellent work among
the school children. She will spend four months out of the
year in Malad, and the other eight months she will give to
Franklin and Bear Lake counties.
California Mission {Torrance Relief [Society) Northwestern States Mission.
On December 31, 1926, the Relief Societies of the Northwestern
States mission was reorganized. Mrs. Marie Young,
who has labored so faithfully and capably during her husband's
presidency of the mission, was honorably released, with deep appreciation for her excellent service. Mrs. Pearl
C. Sloan, wife of President William R. Sloan, was appointed
president to fill the vacancy.
Eastern States Mission.
Relief Society work in the Eastern States mission is
constantly progressing. There is a commendable interest,
not only among the members enrolled therein, but among
the missionaries and presiding brethren as well. There is
a splendid spirit of cooperation throughout. Miss Dicie W.
Brimhall writes that since her appointment as president, in
October, it has been her project, through a circular letter,
and where possible a personal visit, to have each society
provide a year-round program with the purpose of preparedness
and making use of every occasion to extend Relief Society
work. The presidents have responded readily to this
idea, and have submitted plans that would do credit to the
wards in the .west, where the advantage of numbers makes
auxiliary work comparatively easy. At present the societies
are working to complete their bazaar projects. During November,
two auxiliary conferences were held at Washington,
D. C, and at Albany, New York, with the Relief Societies,
Sunday schools and Mutual Improvement Associations, participating.
The work done in these two branches is most
gratifying.
Hawaiian Mission.
Mrs. Olivia S. Waddoups, president of the Hawaiian
mission Relief Societies, writes as follows : "The Relief Society
members in this mission are making a great effort to
succeed in their work, and we are pleased with the efforts.
Their activities among those in need and distress is commendable
indeed. Our social welfare work is given good
attention, and much interest is shown in the . baby
clinic movement here. With the help of our L. D. S. Hospital
graduate nurse missionary, Sister Freda Linneback,
much is being accomplished here in Honolulu, and this island.
We start the new year with two new organizations in Honolulu.
We have also reorganized a number of our old associations.
We believe that we are now prepared to do better
work in 1927 than we did in 1926. That is, at least, our
ambition.
Southern States Mission.
The Relief Societies of the mission report a gratifying
increase of charitable deeds for the poor and the sick, nonmembers,
as well as members, having been included in this
work of love. More money has been collected and disbursed for the benefit of the poor this year than in previous years.
The yearly report shows also that the members have spent
more days in caring for the sick than heretofore. The Jacksonville,
Florida, Relief Society secured a home for a baby
whose parents were killed in the terrible storm which devastated
the towns on the east coast of Florida, September
26. The foster mother, who took the baby into her home, is
a Relief Society worker.
Effort has also been made along the lines of making the
meeting houses more attractive. The Columbus, Georgia,
chapel is nearing completion, and the Relief Society raised
$50 to assist in providing a baptismal font. The largest
country chapel in the mission is at Axson, Georgia, and the
members of this country branch carpeted the stand and the
aisles. During the series of conferences held in November
and December, the Relief Societies served substantial meals
between the meetings to the visitors and missionaries.
Tongan Mission
The course of study in the Relief Societies of the Tongan
mission last year consisted of the regular theology lessons,
which were translated by the president, Mrs. Ada B.
Cahoon, and a course in the laws of Tonga. There was much
interest in the class work, and the members were greatly
benefited thereby.
California Mission ,( Correction).
The note in the February Magazine regarding the excellent
Magazine subscription record in San Francisco was
incomplete. It should have read as follows : "The Mission
Branch Relief Society of San Francisco has made a most enviable
record in the matter of securing subscriptions to the
Relief Society Magazine. There are thirty-eight members
in the organization, and they have sent in fifty-eight subscriptions.
The subscribers consist of 38 members, 12 L. D.
S. women, non-members of the organization, and 8 non-members
of the Church.