[Vol14 | April 1927 | Sequence: 04d | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]


Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Social Problems of Childhood?Paul
The social setting of an individual can either limit him so that normal happy life is impossible, or the setting may give him the exact experience he needs to express and develop his personality.
There is a great range and variety of social influences in home, neighborhood, school and community life. The child who begins life in a poverty-stricken, illiterate and alcoholic home travels a different path through life from one born in a home of intelligent, affectionate parents, who can provide comfortably for the needs of the children. Between the home of squalor and debauchery at one extreme, and the home of comfort and culture at the other, there are all varieties of home and neighborhood standards. A poor home may have high standards of health and education, while a comfortable home may be lacking in these important elements. Homes and families are all different and have their own peculiarities. This truism is mentioned here, for the story of the boy Paul, is a story of a boy made unhappy because of the nature of his foster home.
The responsibility of placing a child for adoption is a grave one. There is first the serious problem of removing the child from its own environment, which may be because of its illegitimate birth, the desertion or death of a parent, or the unwholesome character of the home. A great number of the children who are placed in foster homes are not orphans, but are children, victims of an unhappy environment. In some instances a change can be made in the child's own home, so that he can remain with his own people. This is especially true of the child born out of wedlock. When given encouragement, guidance, protection, and, perhaps, some financial help, many of the young, unfortunate mothers are spared the unnatural and inhuman ordeal of giving away their new born infants. No matter what the circumstances, it is a serious and important step to remove children permanently from their own homes, and a step that should not be taken until every effort has been made to better the home environment. The attempt to rehabilitate a home, and the final decision to remove the children, should be made by a trained expert in social problems.
A second serious responsibility is to the foster parents. Many intelligent, cultured, foster parents have opened their comfortable homes to foundlings, to learn, too late, that no happiness can come to them or the child by the association. As a safeguard to the generous persons willing to adopt a child, certain elements in the child's background should be determined. A thorough physical examination, including tests for venereal infection should be given the child. A mental examination, if the child is three or four years, can be given to avoid the danger of burdening a home with a feeble-minded child. If the child is too young to be tested certain history of the parents will assist in determining its mental potentials and behavior traits. This important study of a child to determine whether it should be placed for adoption should be done by a trained expert in child welfare.
The chief concern, of course, is the child's development, and the most important responsibility in placing a child is to the child itself. A home that might be ideal for one child would be an unhappy environment for another. A comfortable income and the ability to provide the physical needs of the child is only one of many elements in child placing. Again, the work of finding the right home for the child can best be done by the trained expert in child welfare. Haphazard, unsupervised child-placing, done by well-intentioned friends, judges, physicians, and agencies, has caused many heartbreaks among foster parents, and many frustrated, unhappy lives among the adopted children.
Paul's placement brought unhappiness to himself and his foster parents. He was a boy of average intelligence (I. Q. 93), with good physical development. He was born in a home of poverty; and when Paul was very young his brutal father deserted his mother. His mother had a mental upset which necessitated her confinement in an institution. Paul was placed in a home of luxury, where every opportunity for education was given him. The foster parents employed a governess to care for the boy, so while he had every physical care and attention, he had none of the affection and personal attention that are important factors in normal child development. When Paul was sixteen he was unhappy, restless, and untruthful. He was placed in an exclusive boarding school, where he could have special educational advantages. Before he left for school he was told of his real position in the family, and this naturally upset him. At school he had difficulty in competing with this selected group of students, where the academic standard was very high. There was nothing in the curriculum to give him an outlet for his ability as a craftsman or mechanic. He became less interested in his work, and sought bad companions away from school. He defended himself with lies and his whole attitude was aggressive and rebellious. He became so upset that a mental collapse seemed imminent. In order to avoid a breakdown the boy was permitted to leave school and find employment in a shop. He left his luxurious foster home and preferred to live with some of his relatives, who were in poor circumstances. He found peace and happiness in supporting himself and contributing to the upkeep of the humble home of his relatives.
That Paul's experience in his foster home was not a success is apparent. It should be of interest to analyze the causes of failure on the part of the foster parents that caused Paul's breakdown. The simple explanation would be that "blood will tell" and that environment could not overcome the handicaps in Paul's heredity. But is such an explanation true? Is it not just as possible that the environment and experiences in his foster home were the real causes of his unhappiness, his lying, and his depression?
Paul was given no personal attention and affection by his foster parents, and this lack of love-life and emotional expression would tend to make the boy unhappy, resentful, and bewildered at his place in hearts of persons believed to be his parents. Later, when he was told of his true status, he naturally had an unhappy reaction. He felt himself different from other persons who had normal homes and he was supersensitive to the attitude of his foster parents. He found nothing in their well-intentioned plan to support him, comfort him or to satisfy his adolescent need for homelife and real affection. He turned with gratitude to relatives where he found a true bond of affection.
The type of school selected accentuated the boy's unhappiness. He had average intelligence and had he been better adjusted emotionally, he may have met with fair success at his school work. The formal, academic work was a little too difficult for his mental endowment, and his escape from this atmosphere to activities which suited him better, helped to give him a better mental attitude.
No generalizations can be made about the merits of certain homes in selecting them for placing children. Children must be suited to the particular home, for both child and foster home has its merits, handicaps, and its own peculiarities. The adjustment of one to the other is a difficult process at best. In fairness to both, every precaution and care should be taken, and every advantage of science and experience should be applied to avoid adoptions that can bring only unhappiness to the child and to the generous foster parents taking the stranger within their doors.
Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile; Paul, pages 254-259.
Questions and Problems
1. What is meant by social setting or environment?
2. Why is it sometimes necessary to remove children from their homes?
3. What should be known about a child before it is placed for adoption?
4. Why is it necessary to fit a child to a particular home?
5. What were the causes of Paul's unhappiness?
6. How were his difficulties overcome?
7. Why should child-placing be the work of a trained expert in child welfare?
GLORIOUS ROSES What is more inviting than a wonderful bed of beautiful EVERBLOOMING ROSES