place of a Seer. (John 4:19). Then follows the woman's declaration of her sincere belief in the Church to come which was followed by his declaration of who he was: "I that speak to you am He." The woman forgets her material interests and with the missionary spirit puts her whole self into the work of spreading the news of her discovery of the new Well; the fountain of eternal life, the new life and the more abundant life. The result of her testimony was the acknowledging of belief in the fruits of his teachings that followed every conversion. (John 4:1-42.)
To the woman of Samaria Jesus not only revealed himself as the Christ, but he proclaimed the absolute necessity for a knowledge of God and sincerity in the worship of him. God is a spirit; an individual intelligence in whom the spiritual dominates. In this there is no denial that God has a body of flesh and bone, as his son had after his resurrection. To worship God in spirit means to worship him in sincerity and with spiritual acquaintance. To worship him in truth means to worship him in the light of truth concerning what he is, and this accords with the declaration concerning eternal life. "And this is life eternal that they might know thee. The only true God and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent."
THE WOMAN WITH THE TWO MITES.
She is called by a modern writer, "The Greatest Giver." To appreciate her place as an outstanding character one needs to study Mark 12:38-44. From a discussion in the temple auditorium, Jesus turned to making observations as to what was going on in the contribution department. The rich put in much with pomp and display of generosity, behind which was the greed for publicity. A widow meekly put in the box two pence. It was her all, and a big heart went with her small gift. And what Jesus said made the unnamed woman (widow) a person of glorious fame. Hers was a gift to the ages in the blaze of her generosity. We see our needs as givers.
TABITHA
The brief story of the life of this remarkable woman is found in Acts 9:36-42. Behind her name is the female gazelle, a creature of gentle disposition and beauty of form. (See dictionary, or cyclopedia.) She seems to have been a lady of the Relief Society type. A "woman of good works and deeds." She became ill and died and was restored to life by a miracle. The narrative of the event reaches its climax in the words of the Apostle Peter, "Tabitha, arise." One can scarcely study the text without feeling a faith-promoting thrill that prompts a desire to make others acquainted with the remarkable circumstances. One is led to wonder whether the spirit of the lifeless body was lingering near or whether it heard the call of the Man of God, from afar, and came with a speed greater than a radio wave.
Review Questions and Problems
1. How did Mary of Magdala get the name of Magdalene?
2. Mention three or more important events in the life of Mary of Magdala.
3. What was the most outstanding quality in the character of Mary of Magdala?
4. What do you see through the reading of Matt. 27:55-56?
5. Give a description of your picture of the woman at the well.
6. Compare the testimony of the Samaritans with the testimony of Peter. John 4:42; Matt. 16:16.
7. What is the great lesson taught by the Savior's comment on his observations of the widow's gift of two mites?
8. What sentence marks the apex of theological interest in the story of Tabitha's death and restoration to life?
9. Which woman was the nearest mortal relative of the Savior?
10. What woman did Jesus approve of in private and defend in public?
11. What are the evidences that the women of the Messianic dispensation had no worries about authority?
LESSON II