[Vol14 | April 1927 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Clean Time | Author: T.H. Male]

Help Make Utah Shine
By L. H. Male, Sanitary Engineer, Utah Board of Health
The purpose and scope of the State-wide Clean Home
Clean Town Campaign are so closely tied up with our daily
life that it would be difficult to find a phase or an activity of
our individual or community life that would not be affected
by such a campaign. First, it is an annual campaign, not a
clean-up day or a clean-up week, but a campaign involving
careful organization and preparation for work to be carried
on throughout the year. Second, it is state-wide in its aim,
embracing every community and home in the state,.
It is difficult to plan and to carry to successful completion
any civic enterprize without the co-operation of the
women. The American Woman is the queen of the home.
The Clean-Up and Paint-Up Campaign is a movement which
appeals with great force to all women.
Every woman dreads disease, and nearly all know that
disease germs breed in dirt and filth. A community that is
continuously dirty and disorderly reflects a very low standard
of community life.
Any one organization working alone will not get very far
in cleaning up the community, but the initiative and cooperation
of all the various organizations cannot fail to revolutionize
sanitary conditions and conserve the public health.
'Clean-Up' also means 'Paint-Up/ and everything that
pertains to the improvement of the appearance of homes.
Individuals and cities are alike in many respects. A clean
community enjoys better health than a dirty one and shows it.
In a clean city flies, mosquitoes and other enemies to health
and comfort cannot thrive. Good health depends to a great
extent upon the removal of rubbish and filth and the destruction
of breeding places for disease-carrying insects. One breeder
of flies can furnish the whole community with flies throughout
the season. A clean community advertises to the world
that its citizens are interested in the public health.
Community pride, cheer, contentment, health and thrift
are valuable assets to every community and to every individual.
A clean-up campaign is a good business proposition.
Those who visit a clean city always will say good things
about it, but a dirty town invites unfavorable comment and
keeps strangers away. The best way to boost your community
is to clean-up, paint-up and keep-it-up. Make your first and greatest appeal for a Clean-Up and
Paint-Up Campaign with the slogan, "Dirt breeds disease.
Let's clean-up, paint-up and live longer."
By cleaning-up and painting-up your city you will turn
the knockers into boosters. No longer will you hear anyone
say, "Our town is the dirtiest place on the map."
An effective clean-up program requires the cooperation
and continued interest of all individuals and groups in the
community.
Don't make the mistake of heaping upon one willing and
patient enthusiast all the details and responsibility. If you do,
he or she will be completely overwhelmed while the rest of
you will be thinking of a hundred things the chairman ought to
do. There should be committees to do specific work, and
chairmen who will think and work and inspire the members
of their committees.
Here are some of the things a campaign does
:
It develops community spirit.
All learn how to work and play together.
Streets and alleys are cleaned-up, repaired, and thereaftei
kept in good condition.
The accumulations of waste and rubbish are removed,
thereby eliminating the causes of many destructive fires.
Vacant lots are improved and converted into playgrounds
or gardens.
Homes are beautified.
Shrubbery is trimmed. Trees are planted. Lawns are
mowed and raked. Backyards are cleaned-up. Homes are
thoroughly cleaned inside and out from cellar to garret and
then are dedicated to continued cleanliness by the ministration
of the painter.
Breeding places for disease are rooted up and destroyed.
Mosquitoes, flies, rats, roaches and other pests are obliterated.
Thus the campaign saves human lives.
Many communities have shown a more rapid growth in
population after a campaign was inaugurated than they ever
hoped to enjoy.
Such a campaign will be of inestimable value to the state.
First, to improve sanitary conditions with a view of promoting
the public health ; and, second, beautification of communities
with an aim to making our surroundings more attracive and
comfortable.
A spirit of civic pride is promoted which animates the
various communities to friendly competition. Many team
owners will donate their services in hauling away rubbish and
bringing back a load of crushed stone and gravel. Public spirited individuals will volunteer their services in repairing
streets in their neighborhood. There should be developed a
pride in gaining the distinction of having the cleanest home
and the cleanest town.
In every community there are boys who are going to
dominate your civic business interests in the future. They
will be the most loyal supporters of your community, if you
will only give them the proper encouragement and responsibility.
Give the old fence a coat of whitewash. Get a few
Huckleberry Finns busy on the job. A coat of whitewash will
greatly improve its appearance.
Hint on whitewashing: Use plenty of good lime and add
one quart of salt to each 5 gallons to keep whitewash from
rubbing off.
Your future citizens are in the school room. A prominent
member of the Big Brother Association, of St. Louis, recently
declared that if the boys and girls were allowed to participate
in practical community development and were properly
encouraged in this work, our juvenile courts would soon
be a thing of the past.
When you enlist the cooperation of the boys and girls in
this campaign you are capitalizing their energy. You are giving
them an opportunity to learn what it means to be builders
of a bigger and better community, and you give them practical
training in useful citizenship. Give the school children a
chance to help make this campaign a big success. It will pay
your chairman to talk to the principal of each school personally,
and to have representative pupils from each school
at your first meeting.
Abraham Lincoln said : "I like to see a man proud of the
place he lives in." So do your neighbors.
CLEAN-UP—FIX-UP—PAINT-UP.
The series of houses showing the growth of shubbery
from year to year is -included in our magazine through the
courtesy of the Extension Division of the Brigham Young
University. They are part of an article on on Home and Community
Beautification by Laval S. Morris, Assistant Professor
of Horticulture, Brigham Young University. The pictures are
loaned by J. B. Pilkington.