[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 689 | General Feature | "La Bonne Mere" by | Jean Honore Fragonard]
For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6, An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Commentary on page 690 687 "LA BONNE MERE" by Jean Honoré Fragonard (French 1732-1806) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine, II For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7, Ideal Family Relationships Commentary on opposite page 688 "'La Bonne Mere"' By Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806—French) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine II For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7 Ideal Family Relationships Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: September 1971 Reproduction of Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University Because of the problems, sorrows, and pain in life, we look forward with hope to the millennium, a time of peace and joy. We work toward ideals of perfection perhaps not completely attainable in this life but ultimately our goal. Consequently we should govern our relationships with family and each other in such a way that we come as near to this goal as possible here and now. There are times, however, when the trials seem insurmountable and we are tempted to look for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to overindulgence. When this happens, progress toward our ideal is thwarted. During the time of the French Revolution there were realists who attempted to isolate and solve the problems. There were also those who sought escape in flights of fancy and overindulgence to avoid the terrible reality of the time. The aristocracy in their court life developed a blindness to reality, as was evidenced by the dalliance, gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the social realist described in an earlier lesson, "Advice to a Young Artist," portrayed the social upheaval and the problems of the common man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard painted the veneer, the facade, of the upper classes. At thirty-seven Fragonard married and the influence of this event upon his life is reflected in the changed nature of his subjects. Rather than the frivolity of the courts, he turned more toward the interests of his home and family. "La Bonne Mére" ("The Good Mother") is an example of this change. Study it carefully—a great subject painted by a master with the brush. Although the decorative quality, the idyllic setting, the sweetness, the prettiness seem to supersede the grand theme of the title, it is a great painting because it makes an aesthetically satisfying, well-executed, and truthful statement about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical principles which, if practiced, move us toward our goal of perfection. 689 'Little White Girl'' By James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6 An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: August 1971 Reproduction of Painting page 687 'Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Without the heart it is not art. To describe what heart means is as difficult as trying to describe an aesthetic or spiritual feeling. Such feelings and understandings seem to come only through experience. When all of the variable elements come into harmony—even for a fleeting second—when the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle fall into place, one sees or he experiences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spinitual. "The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the proper blend of subject, content, and form. The aestheticspiritual qualities are evidenced in the wistful purity of her expression and in the simplicity of her white dress. The image lingers in our memory and we recall with pleasure its beauty. It might be interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud." Although the subject matter is not the same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) 690 The Golden Mask Mary Clough Some of the ancient Egyptian kings ordered massive temples and monuments built, not only to insure their places in history, but also to impress the gods with whom they thought they would be associating after death. Thousands of slaves spent their lives laboring to make sure their kings would have a prominent place in the hereafter. King Tut-ankh-Amen's tomb was one of the more modest ones, consisting of only a few rooms. Perhaps his early death prevented him from erecting a pyramid, but his slaves carved and embossed beautiful art objects of gold and precious stones to adorn his last resting place. He even had a store of wheat as food for his journey into another life. The most fabulous of his preparations was a life-sized golden mask to preserve and enhance his image. When his life ended, King Tut's body and all his treasures were sealed away from earthly intruders. Centuries later, when the tomb was opened, nothing had been disturbed. The wheat was still in its containers, the treasures in their carefully arranged niches, and the golden mask still covered the face of the crumbling mummy which had once been a proud ruler. None of these things had guaranteed him immortality. Imagine his surprise to find he had to face his Maker empty handed and without the golden mask to conceal the lines of unconcern for his fellow men that may have been etched on his face during the years he was commanding his slaves to prepare a happy and prosperous place for him in the hereafter. None of us can take our gold and silver with us into eternity nor cover our faces with a mask to conceal the story of our lives from God; nor should we one day be surprised to find we cannot depend on someone else's work to gain our individual salvation. Each of us must build his own place in the hereafter. A Brooches—Lovely to Look At—Easy to Make (continued from p. 676) Here are the simple instructions: MATERIALS Obtain several eyeglass lenses from an eye doctor—in various shapes. Pictures: Cards or designs from firm wrapping paper can be used. For making pins for teenagers, wrapping paper may be used effectively. Glue (good quality). Contact paper (paper with an adhesive back). Basic pin (usually found at craft shops). Paint brush (fine). Gold paint (small bottle, similar to that used to paint model planes). INSTRUCTIONS Glue design on back of lens. Trim edge of paper. Cover with Contact paper. Trim edge very close. Paint the edge with gold paint. Glue back of pin to contact paper. (Follow directions on the glue bottle.) Let the glue harden one or two days before wearing pin. 691 Special Moment Linda M. Campora oe @ It was a warm autumn morning, and there on a bench amid fallen leaves, I sat with my three sweet children. Birds sang happily from the branches above. It was so peaceful and serene, my fourand five-year-olds felt as though they should whisper. We put the baby on the grass, and for a few moments, said nothing. The cemetery was almost deserted, except for a man mowing the lawn in the distance, and two caretakers preparing a burial plot. We had come this special morning to remember another of our family, our first baby son who had died at four months of age. The children had seen pictures of their brother and had spoken about him occasionally, but this was the first time I had brought them with me to see his grave. I suppose I felt extra sentimental this particular day. It would have been his seventh birthday, and our new baby boy was just four months old. I looked at him, and remembered the sorrow and emptiness followed by great strength and courage given us by our Father in heaven. The children had picked flowers from the yard, and they placed them tenderly on the grave. Of course, they were full of questions.