[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 708 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Peacemakers | ]
Smith, JD, 25:57)) I VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 3—Peacemakers Northern Hemisphere: First Week, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that peace is a goal of the daughters of God. "Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other." (Ps. 85:10.) I The Swiss saints did not fight in World War II, but they well understood that part of the peace was binding up the wounds left from that great carnage. 708 The members of the Church in Austria lived far from the seaports into which came the mercy ships from Church members in the United States. The railroads, airfields, and roads had been bombed almost to shambles by the allies. Little aid trickled in. Hunger and illness were everywhere. As the summer began, the saints in Switzerland sent railroad tickets on one of the few functioning railroad lines for the children of the members in Austria to come and spend the summer with them. Pale, malnourished, ragged, the children set out. When fall came, the members in Austria went again to the railroad station to get their children. As they saw them climb down from the train, the parents stood and wept. They had diffculty in recognizing their own children! Plump, rosy-cheeked, well-dressed, lugging heavy suitcases full of new clothes and needed food, they were messengers from a forgotten world, but not a forgetting world. When God sent the Prince of Peace to earth, that birth was heralded by a multitude of heavenly hosts bringing our Heavenly Father's great wish, "peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:14.) As the earthly ministry of that same Son drew near its end, his gift, in turn, to his disciples was, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14:27.) ae Lesson Department One day on a _ mountain, probably overlooking the peaceful Sea of Galilee, the Christ's great sermon included the promise, "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) How are we to bring peace? How can we teach our children to love their enemies, to do good to them? How shall we in our violence-torn world help them to have the courage to "bless them that curse you," (Matt. 5:44) or, as Jesus did when he was reviled, revile not again? (1 Pet. 2:23.) Do we teach them to pray for those who mistreat them? How can we and they learn to overcome evil with good? How can we bind up the wounds of violence? How can we strengthen those who are working—not just crying for peace? How can we develop our capacities to understand others? If we stand in their shoes and look at ourselves as they look at us, perhaps we can gain insight into our own conduct as well as theirs and learn how to help them. The daughters of God are peacemakers "for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but mghteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost." (Rom. 14:17.) LAMENT Oh, time—why won't you pass? And rush my children past this raucous stage? Ah, time—you went too fast! — Please turn back one brief page.