[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 678 | General Feature | About Fish Linnie | F. Robinson]
F. Robinson inside. This is good for any whole fish. Combine ingredients for sauce and pour over the fish. Bake 45 minutes in 400° oven. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over top. If the fish ts frozen it may need 1 hour to cook. I serve green peas with the fish. Lean fish is more tasty if it is larded, and by "larding" we mean inserting bacon strips or salt pork in gashes cut in the sides of the fish to make the meat more fat and juicy. The lean fish include trout, black bass, cod, and the fish of the flounder family. Halibut is especially lean and is more flavorsome fried in deep fat or wrapped in cheesecloth and baked in milk, then served with sauce. Milk removes the strong odor of fish. Whitefish and mackerel do not need larding. Below is another sauce for baked fish. 678 Fish Sauce 1 pt. Salad dressing (homemade or other) 3 tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle dash garlic YQ tsp. Onion juice (optional) salt and pepper to taste Combine ingredients and serve with baked fish. When unexpected company comes I serve a quick seafood casserole and baked potatoes. I wash, oil, and wrap the potatoes in foil and put them in a 400° oven for 50 minutes. Quick Baked Seafood 1 pt. Salad 1 tbsp. Minced dressing or chives or mayonnaise onion 3 tbsp. Creeaam 1 6% 0z. Can or canned cleaned milk shrimp 1_ 4 oz. Can 2 6% oz. Cans sliced picrab, flaked miento 2 tsps. Lemon 1 tbsp. Sugar juice Combine ingredients, salt and pepper to taste, and pour into a casserole and bake in the oven in which the potatoes have been placed twenty minutes earlier. All you need is to get the contents hot and bubbly, about '¥% hour. While the potatoes and seafood bake, I set the table, prepare a tossed salad, and arrange on a tray some of the fruits of the season for dessert. Serves 7-8. Another quick baked seafood is "Quick Baked Lobster." Quick Baked Lobster 4 cans lobster salt and pep- (about 26 oz. _ per to taste total) ¥3 c. Toasted 4 Ib. Butter cracker 3 tbsp. Flour crumbs 1 pt. Cream, dash of half-andpaprika half, or 2 tbsp. Melted canned butter milk Yc. Parmesan 1 beaten egg cheese, grated 2 tbsp. Lemon 6 slices juice cooked bacon Fry diced lobster in butter until hot. Stir flour into butter and add cream. Stir and cook until thickened. Add egg and cook only a few seconds more. Remove from heat and add lemon juice, salt and pepper. Pour into a casserole. Combine crumbs, melted butter, paprika, and cheese and sprinkle on top. Bake at 350° for 12 hour. Ten minutes before casserole is done lay bacon strips over the top.