The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: ACROSS THESE HILLS I have no loom to weave this tapestry © When frost-fires spin their crimson in the clefts And lay their tawny shaw! Across the slopes. Why must. My forgetting, fickle mind Yield up the image, pale with time the hue, Or lose beyond recall the ragged way The aspens trail their gold along the creeks? For soon, too soon, as other seasons know, The year will drop its blanket on the land And I will turn heart-whole to peace of snow. The weaver flings his brilliant skeins each year, But I may never come this way again. All things pass, as this, and even now A bright leaf severs from the tree and floats To earth. The setting sun intensifies Magenta tones to purple, deepens blue, But douses light as dullness quenches pain, And. I must hug them into memory, Before the dark decree that all must part, And love these autumn hills into my heart. —Alice Morrey Bailey Early Snow Transparency by Claire W. Noall Z Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press _ Aspens on Mount Timpanogos Photograph by Hal Rumel Dick Scopes Mary Scopes I just wanted to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. Our whole family reads it. As a home economics teacher, I find many of the articles helpful. We used the sourdough recipes (February 1970, by Edythe K. Watson) in a menu planning contest we entered. Our menus were State winners in Wyoming. Gilda Sims Evanstoh, Wyoming I was so pleased when I opened the July Magazine and found the story ''Ronna's Doll,"' by Norma Wrathall, my niece. I have just written to her about it. This story brings back memories of the days when the young girls of our families played house in the large bedrooms upstairs in the old home. Those were happy carefree days. Every issue of the Magazine is wonderful. I love the poems, especially the one ''You Never Knew I Kept Ail These,'' by Alda Larson Brown. I'm quite a ''keeper of things,'' too. I was attracted, also, by the illustrations for the poem. Mary Scopes is a delightful illustrator. ''Picking Potawatomies,'' by Mabel Luke Anderson was interesting. How we used to enjoy the tangy taste of those plums! ''The Secret of Blueberry Hill,'' by Rosa Lee Lloyd seems to be a good one again, as all of hers are. Lucy W. Jones Salt Lake City, Utah As a child I spent many happy hours in the attic of my mother's home, searching out the poems and stories in her cherished and saved Relief Society Magazines, skipping the lesson material and preachments, but imbibing a testimony of the gospel, nevertheless, by the same lessons and preachments in story and poetry form. The Magazine has helped me to be proud of being a woman, a mother, and a homemaker, and prouder still of being a Latter-day Saint woman. Alice Morrey Bailey Salt Lake City, Utah We really appreciate it that the sisters in the United States have made it possible for us to receive the Relief Society Magazine every month. From this magazine we have been able to gain new strength for our work and new ideas for the Hamburg Stake. Through it we also have gained connection to all the sisters in the Church. To all the sisters who have donated the gift subscriptions, we wish to express our special thanks. Ilse Linds, Hamburg Stake Relief Society President For the first time since I have been in college this semester, I have found time to read my wonderful Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. Of course, I always like to thumb through the Magazines and look at the pictures, poems, and short stories and the letters in the From Near and Far department, though I might not have time to read any of the articles at that moment. Because of my schedule in college, I cannot attend Relief Society meetings as I should like to do, but the Magazine keeps my spirits intact. I wish to thank all the people who help to put the Magazine together, and for the dedicated love and work that you do in order to bring us this lovely work of art. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas I have read with interest the special feature ''Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts (June 1970, by Caroline Eyring Miner). I am a convert to the Church and enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is a constant source of strength and information. I enjoy the lessons and articles on gardening, but hope sometime in the future the Magazine will publish a few articles on gardening in the Las Vegas area. Since we have six stakes and a growing membership in Relief Society, I am sure the ladies would like to know that one can really grow vegetables in this sterile soil. Jean R. Jones Las Vegas, Nevada 642.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.