[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 690 | General Feature | "Little White Girl" by | James Abott McNeill Whistler]
White Girl'' By James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6 An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: August 1971 Reproduction of Painting page 687 'Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Without the heart it is not art. To describe what heart means is as difficult as trying to describe an aesthetic or spiritual feeling. Such feelings and understandings seem to come only through experience. When all of the variable elements come into harmony—even for a fleeting second—when the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle fall into place, one sees or he experiences a feeling of rightness. This revelation is often accompanied by or gives rise to a wonderfully warm emotional response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spinitual. "The Little White Girl" is a good example of the serene feeling of rightness—the proper blend of subject, content, and form. The aestheticspiritual qualities are evidenced in the wistful purity of her expression and in the simplicity of her white dress. The image lingers in our memory and we recall with pleasure its beauty. It might be interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud." Although the subject matter is not the same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) 690 The Golden Mask Mary Clough Some of the ancient Egyptian kings ordered massive temples and monuments built, not only to insure their places in history, but also to impress the gods with whom they thought they would be associating after death. Thousands of slaves spent their lives laboring to make sure their kings would have a prominent place in the hereafter. King Tut-ankh-Amen's tomb was one of the more modest ones, consisting of only a few rooms. Perhaps his early death prevented him from erecting a pyramid, but his slaves carved and embossed beautiful art objects of gold and precious stones to adorn his last resting place. He even had a store of wheat as food for his journey into another life. The most fabulous of his preparations was a life-sized golden mask to preserve and enhance his image. When his life ended, King Tut's body and all his treasures were sealed away from earthly intruders. Centuries later, when the tomb was opened, nothing had been disturbed. The wheat was still in its containers, the treasures in their carefully arranged niches, and the golden mask still covered the face of the crumbling mummy which had once been a proud ruler. None of these things had guaranteed him immortality. Imagine his surprise to find he had to face his Maker empty handed and without the golden mask to conceal the lines of unconcern for his fellow men that may have been etched on his face during the years he was commanding his slaves to prepare a happy and prosperous place for him in the hereafter. None of us can take our gold and silver with us into eternity nor cover our faces with a mask to conceal the story of our lives from God; nor should we one day be surprised to find we cannot depend on someone else's work to gain our individual salvation. Each of us must build his own place in the hereafter. A Brooches—Lovely to Look At—Easy to Make (continued from p. 676) Here are the simple instructions: MATERIALS Obtain several eyeglass lenses from an eye doctor—in various shapes. Pictures: Cards or designs from firm wrapping paper can be used. For making pins for teenagers, wrapping paper may be used effectively. Glue (good quality). Contact paper (paper with an adhesive back). Basic pin (usually found at craft shops). Paint brush (fine). Gold paint (small bottle, similar to that used to paint model planes). INSTRUCTIONS Glue design on back of lens. Trim edge of paper. Cover with Contact paper. Trim edge very close. Paint the edge with gold paint. Glue back of pin to contact paper. (Follow directions on the glue bottle.) Let the glue harden one or two days before wearing pin. 691 Special Moment Linda M. Campora oe @ It was a warm autumn morning, and there on a bench amid fallen leaves, I sat with my three sweet children. Birds sang happily from the branches above. It was so peaceful and serene, my fourand five-year-olds felt as though they should whisper. We put the baby on the grass, and for a few moments, said nothing. The cemetery was almost deserted, except for a man mowing the lawn in the distance, and two caretakers preparing a burial plot. We had come this special morning to remember another of our family, our first baby son who had died at four months of age. The children had seen pictures of their brother and had spoken about him occasionally, but this was the first time I had brought them with me to see his grave. I suppose I felt extra sentimental this particular day. It would have been his seventh birthday, and our new baby boy was just four months old. I looked at him, and remembered the sorrow and emptiness followed by great strength and courage given us by our Father in heaven. The children had picked flowers from the yard, and they placed them tenderly on the grave. Of course, they were full of questions. "What is the man digging the hole for? Will our new baby die, too? Will I be a grandpa when I die?" As many times as we had discussed the body and spirit in Family Home Evening, and on other occasions, here was a more choice moment for learning. There under the tree in that beautiful atmosphere, we talked about how the spirit leaves the body at death and goes on to live with Heavenly Father; that our body is a house for our spirit, and so when the spirit leaves, the empty body is placed in the grave until some beautiful morning, when our spirit comes back to our body, which is called the resurrection. I told them how exciting it will be to have a shining, glorious body which will never be weakened by sickness and which can never die again. We talked about what a happy day it would be for all of the members of the family to be together, and what fun we would have with our baby in our new home with Jesus and Heavenly Father. They were so excited, and my son marveled at the power God has and how he could do this. We decided it didn't matter how, only that we know he can and he will. They were quiet again, and with tears forming in her brown eyes, my four-year-old said, "I would like to go to Heavenly Father's house right now." How thankful I am for the gospel. How blessed our children are when they can grow up with this plain and precious understanding of life and death, and not the fears and doubts which come from ignorance. Most important, how careful must we be as parents to teach them to walk uprightly before the Lord. Do we recognize and use these rare and special moments when we can nurture the seeds of testimony which have been planted in their young spirits? We must make them strong for the turbulent days to come. The greatest gift we, as parents, can give, is a lifetime of training in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 692 Lula Holt Shepherd, First Ward, Kolob Stake, Springville, Utah, is well-known for the beauty she has brought into the homes of her many friends and family members. She has given over 100 quilts on various occasions. Numerous dish towels, pillowcases, hot pads, and other articles of handwork have pleased recipients. Sister Shepherd has shared her talent for quilting by serving as a member of the quilting committee. She now sends birthday cards to the Relief Society sisters in her ward. She has served as a visiting teacher for forty years. Sister Shepherd is the mother of seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. Each has a quilt and pair of pillowcases. She enjoys her work and enjoys sharing her talents with others. Isabelle R. Cardon, Benson Ward, East Cache Stake, Utah, has a favorite motto: ''Service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy.'' She has tried to live by this motto since her girlhood. Her seven children, thirty-four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren have ail benefitted from her many talents. Warm quilts have been especially appreciated by all. Lovely pillowcases and tablecloths adorn each home. She has served in many teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church, including cultural refinement class leader in Relief Society. In 1965 she was chosen as the Northern Utah Mother of the Year. ain a.