[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 682 | General Feature | Autumn Portrait of a Spring and Summer Garden Darlene | C. Dedekind]
ROBERTS Autumn Portrait Of a Spring and Summer Garden "A garden is a lovesome thing," the poet Thomas E. Brown wrote many years ago, but DasleneC ected we should add, to be honest, not without "worksome" hours. The time spent in selecting, planting, weeding, cultivating, and watering must be allocated to the demands of seed and flower and stem—the growing cycle and the Member, General Board of Relief Society resting season. With careful planning a garden can be a panorama of color from the time the first crocus pushes its way through the snow until a hard frost takes the last blossom of the brave chrysanthemum. Autumn in any land can be rewarding in its cycle of sun and shadow. It is a time of harvesting the beauty of summer-long hours, and it is also the season for planning the springtime garden. The coming of the growing season makes so many demands on the time of the garden maker that all the accomplishments of autumn will be an early harvest of beauty in the green and growing time. Fall Time Activities: 1. Clean up the entire garden.. Remove all weeds before they go to seed. 2. Spade under in a trench the fallen leaves and faded blossoms to enrich the soil during the rest time of winter. 3. Mound over the rose roots with dead leaves and soil for protection against winter cold. 4. Divide perennials. A good rule to follow is to divide in the fall any plant which blooms in the spring, such as irises, poppies, peonies, daisies, primroses, and spring blooming bulbs. Divide in the spring any plant which blooms in the fall, for instance, the chrysanthemum. Apply mulch around young trees and shrubs and perennials. Save the seed of your favorite annuals—zinnias, marigolds, and asters. Place the seeds of each flower in a separate envelope and write on the envelope the name and color of the flower. This autumn activity can save time and money— perhaps provide an unusual gift for a friend. ~S An experimental gardener may explore a lovely, flowerbordered path of interesting surprises by planting seeds in the fall, keeping in mind, of course, the requirements of the climate in your area. Flowers which scatter their own "volunteer" seeds, such as snapdragons and_ sunflowers, could have an experimental planting made in late. Summer or autumn. Pansies planted in the late summer or early fall break into radiant bloom in springtime sunshine, and primroses can do some rapid growing in the three months of autumn. Cosmos are abundant "seeders," and once you have a cosmos "patch" there will be forever in your garden the fragile beauty of long stems, feather foliage, and the indescribable satin of cosmos blossoms. Some varieties of larkspur, and many petunias decide for themselves where they want to be, and many gardeners learn from such floral "accidents" which seeds may be planted in the fall in the areas of their own outdoor environment. Gardening is a_ hobby having multiple rewards— beauty, outdoor enjoyment, a forgetting of worldwide and personal problems in the variable kingdom of the flowers where nature makes the rules and the gardener learns compliance and discovery—learns the ways of autumn and the compensating seasons—spring and summer. Reflections Leila Grace Bassford TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Poplars, Mount Timpanogos, Utah, in background. What beautiful pictures reflections make! Anyone can achieve a greater appreciation for form and color by observing their repeated signatures in nature and in art. The tiniest pool of rainwater may reflect trees and sky, just as the largest lake may. Even the raindrop may reflect a rainbow! The photographer is always charmed and beguiled by reflections. He delights in photographing a clear, unrippled lake, with the mountain that towers above it, the clouds drifting overhead, and the trees and flowers that fringe its borders, faithfully reproduced upon its smooth expanse. Even when a wandering breeze stitches neat shallow ruffles upon its surface, this does not conceal the color and sparkle in the reflection that he sees in the onginal, nor diminish his enthusiasm for making pictures Mount Moran and Jackson Lake, Wyoming. Pond in Millcreek Canyon, Utah of it. Around such places as a boat dock, or in a quiet section of a bay, with the gentle lapping of waves, it is a delight to photograph the reflections that are an integral part of the scene. The universe teems with natural wonders. Reflections are but a small fraction of them. Nevertheless, it can become enjoyable and exciting to watch for and detect these shimmering duplicate images, and the smaller and less obvious they are, the more exciting the game. And this simple pastime costs nothing, trains the eye, and enhances our delight in the infinitude of beauties nature has lavished upon our world. Red Rock Crossing, Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona Santa Fe Springs Second Ward