HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Salt increases the heat of water in boiling potatoes.
	Half a cupful of vinegar in the water will make an old
fowl cook quickly.
	Grease may be removed from marble by a paste made of
whiting and benzine, and whiting and chloride of lime,
spread upon marble and left to dry in the sun, will remove
stains if not too deep.
     Orange Jam.—Weigh the oranges before peeling, and use
a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit.  Take the peel from
half of the oranges, grate it, and add the sugar.  Open
the oranges, and be very particular to get out the seeds and
white strings.  Add the sugar and peel, with a little water,
and boil the whole about twenty minutes.
	Tin canned goods, when opened, should be immediate
ly transferred to glass or earthenware receptacles.  Recent
investigations show that cases of poisoning from eating
canned goods have arisen from the acid of the canned food
attacking the solder of the tins, and sometimes from de-
composition accelerated by an electrical action between
the solder and the iron of the tin.  Never leave canned
fruits, meats, or fish in opened tin cans.
	The Horseback Cure.—There is a saying among the
Russians that a man who is fond of his horse will not grow


old early. The Arab and the Cossack are examples of the
truth of the proverb. They generally live long; enjoy ro-
bnst health, and have no use for liver pads and blue pills.
That vigorous octogenarian, David Dudley Field, tells us
that he attributes his remarkable vitality to the habit of 
horseback riding, and, if the truth were known, it would
doubtless appear that our sturdiest old men are those who
have been fond of the saddle. The taste for equestrian
sports and exercise which has lately made such progress
in this country is therefore, a hopeful and healthful sign.
It is not a mere freak of fashion, but a development in the 
direction of rational enjoyment and an assurance that the
rising generation will be less of an indoor and more of an
outdoor people. It means less headache hereafter, better
appetites, stronger lungs, rosier cheeks, brighter eyes,
sounder sleep, happier spirits, and a total oblivion of that
organ which, according to Sidney Smith, keeps men a great
deal lower than the angels—the liver.


