		INTERESTING MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the
woman’s organizations of this city was held in
the usual place (Fourteenth Ward) Saturday,

[Column 2]
May 28th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer, etc., and minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted, minutes
of P. A. of the 10th, 5th, 20th, 21st and 16th
wards were read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in
which she referred to her recent visit to the
Logan Temple, and the work she had done for
those who were dead, and some of her child-
ren, and how it had rejoiced her heart.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had recently returned
from the east made a brief report of her visit,
and spoke of her conversations with Miss
Cleveland, also of the Memorial which had
been presented to the President and to Con-
gress, both in the Senate and House. In her
remarks she urged the sisters to seek for wis-
dom and the Spirit of the Lord; thought the
women of Zion had better opportunities for
development than any others in the world.
The Gospel itself was more elevating to the
human mind than the education of the world.
She also felt much good might be done if we
would all take an interest in sending abroad
papers and books that explain our doctrines;
that although, perhaps, many here at home
thought very little of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, yet outside, when it was said "Mormon"
women had a paper of their own, in which
they gave free expression to their views and
opinions upon all subjects, including the doc-
trines of the Church, woman’s suffrage and
everything of interest to the home and family,
it was considered quite a power, and proof
that they were not enslaved and down-trodden,
for the very fact of their publishing a paper
was in itself testimony to the contrary.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who had been
away for some time, made an eloquent appeal
to the sisters, touching many important matters,
especially in relation to the training of child-
ren and the management of young people to
preserve them in the Gospel; felt we should
live near to the Lord and cultivate faith and
devote our energies to the building up of the
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to remem-
ber the work for the dead, and not neglect
that duty, or they would regret it perhaps
when there was not the same opportunity; felt
there was no greater work than for the dead.
Felt that our sisters who had a knowledge of
the human system, who had made a study of
these things should impart information to the
young.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the action taken by
Governor West in visiting the Penitentiary;
thought he did it for the best;said it is the
same now as it was in the days of old. They
were jealous of Daniel's wisdom, and jealousy
is the cause of a great many things in this age
of the world; thought we needed much of the
Spirit of God. Singing. Benediction by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

	Minutes of Saturday meeting, June 11th,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Besides the usual
exercises and minutes, there were minutes read
from Y. L. of the 20th, 7th, and 4th wards,
and the P. A. of the 5th, 20th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne addressed the meeting upon
the events transpiring at the present time;
thought we should draw nearer together and
make us feel as one, for we have much to meet
in the future. “If all are not tried now they
will be, for we have all got to go through the
furnace.” Mentioned an incident which she
had heard related in fast meeting, showing
that our faith should never waver. “We
ought to be on the watch tower, for Satan is
tempting us, and we must say, ‘Get thee be-
hind me, Satan.' Let us do the best we can
each day, and if we have done any wrong
thing, let us do it no more. We can live near
unto the Lord to-day, and nearer to-morrow, 
and so the adversary will have no hold on us.
We are coming to a great crisis, and the Gos-


pel is being more thoroughly taught to the
Gentiles; so that they may understand it more
clearly. Our time of rejoicing is in the near
future, let us be humble and faithful, that we 
may be among the chosen ones.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson had been on a mis-
sion to Washington, and while there, in ob-
serving what was transpiring around her, had
realized keenly that the ancient prophecies 
were being fulfilled; said, "No power of man
can alter this work, for God's hand is in it, 
and the unseen hosts of eternity are working
for us. Had a long conversation with Gov.
West previous to his coming here. One of
the questions he asked me was, why could we
not have a new revelation, and settle all this
disturbance?" I told him they were not so 
plentiful that you can get them to buy;
another person said he was going to come and
bring us a new revelation, which would have 
the desired effect." In reply the Dr. said she
did not think he was near enough to God to 
have a revelation, but if it had the same
stamp as ours had we might give it a hearing.
Told us of what she had said concerning the 
celestial law, "and if we go back to history we
will find that we are not the only ones who 
have been persecuted for believing what they
thought right." Made mention of the Ed-
munds Bill; thought it worse in its present
form than what it was before it was amended.
"We will be allowed to live and work, but not
to hold any office. We are in the same posi-
tion as the Israelites were because they were 
not keeping God's commandments and walking
in his ways, they were put in bondage; but we 
know that the end is near, and there is not 
one but will be tried to the very uttermost. 
		Said Brother F. D. Richards bore
a faithful testimony in the Supreme Court in 
regard to plural marriage, and made many
other remarks upon the work she had been en-
gaged in.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball remembered the time
when she was in Washington, in taking with
Mrs. Babbitt, whom many of us knew was
there some time with her husband, she told
her "the nearer you come to those great men 
the smaller they appeared;" they think they are 
wise, but they do not have the Spirit of God.
"It has been remarked, we are in the position 
of the Israelites, if so, we have got to come to 
the very bottom of the ladder, and it behooves
us to nourish and strengthen the germ of
faith that is in us. We are aiming to rise to a 
higher sphere, and if we lose our light we are
in a deplorable situation. God will help us if 
we try to help ourselves. He has a battle axe 
prepared for His people.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said we have no need to 
feel discouraged unless we do wrong ourselves;
always have our lamps burning brightly, that
we may be prepared for the future.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she had met with
quite a number of associations in different 
places since she had met with us here; thought
the sisters were waking up, and especially the
Y. L. A. they are improving greatly; thought 
every one of our young girls should be mem-
bers of these associations, and if we teach 
them correct principles they will abide by
them, we ought to be very careful what
company they keep, they should be taught the
evil of mixing with those who are not of us.
Prayed that we might discharge every duty. 
Singing. Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


