THE FARM HOME.

You're weary grown, my girls and boys,
	Of this calm, quiet country life;
You long again for city scenes,
	The busy spirit and its strife;
You miss the lights adown the streets,
	The bands of music, daily news;
Could choice direct us, and not need,
	I, too, that brighter life would choose.

Yet here in grandeur, mountains rise,
	And every month new beauties bring,
From autumn's wealth of richest dyes
	To graceful tints of lovely spring;
And birds that charm and lure thee on;
	And luscious fruits, that few can buy,
While gentle creatures of our own
	Reward our care and please the eye.

The girls, with weary patience, still
	Keep on their way, as women do,
But boys will stop a hundred times
	Some gay-winged creature to pursue;
And when recalled, their flying steps
	Halt all the way through blooming clover—
"O, I'm so tired, I'm almost dead,
	It only needs the pushing over."

But yet the time will come to them,
	It may be many years from now,
When they'll remember with a laugh
	The ills that shadowed childhood's brow;
They'll recollect the walnut trees,
	Whose bower-like branches droop around,
And how they gathered in the fall
	The nuts where leaves o'er spread the ground.

They'll recollect the trees that bore
	The earliest fruit, the latest, too,
Their garden patches, where each one
	Planted just what it pleased them to;
And how they played at hide and seek
	All through the orchard long and wide,
And laughed at bare legs dangling down
	From boughs where some one sat astride.

They'll recollect how once there came—
	When snow was deep and night wind cold,
A man of prayer and prophecy—
	Of hymns he sang and truths he told;
That seemed like legends pure and sweet,
	Yet of the future, not the past;
And how the present, humble poor
	Would end in blessings at the last.

Thanks be to Him for this retreat,
	Where worldly teachers have no place,
And may He guard our humble home
	By His own power and His grace;
Here may God's lessons and His love
	Grow in their souls each year, each day,
Deep rooted trees, that, reaching high,
	No storms can break or tear away.

This spot of earth, so lowly now,
	Within their memory yet will be
The sacred center where drew round
	The visions of futurity.
From missionary fields afar,
	My boys, at times, in thought will turn
To this, the altar of their hearts,
	With deeper love its worth to learn.

And on the silver string of time,
	Mem'ry will gather for my  girls
Souls here they loved and truths they found
	Worth more than gold—more pure than pearls.
And when o'er all these fields so fair
	Ten thousand Saints their dwellings rear,
Not lonely then, I'll see them smile,
	Contented that our home is here.

