		IN MEMORIAM.

“And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith! 
Let us look round some argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow,
	That surely must succeed this night of death.,"

“Ay, look upon this dreary, desert path, 
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn; 
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we mourn."

	On Friday evening, June 18, 1886, Sister Louisa
F. Wells breathed her last at ten minutes to nine
o'clock. She died peacefully and without a strug-
gle, in her own home, surrounded by her children
and members of her fond and loving family. She
was the beloved wife of President Daniel H. 
Wells, who is necessarily absent from home
on account of religious persecution. The sorrow-
ful intelligence of her death was sent across the
sea to him by cablegram, and an answer, express-
ing his sympathy with the family, and especially
the children of the deceased, was received the
following day. The illness with which Sister
Wells was afflicted was a painful one, and she
had borne for several months with great patience
and fortitude, the severe and trying ordeals of
pain and suffering which could only be temporarily
alleviated from time to time. 
	Early in the month of February, 1885, Sister Wells
went to England to join her husband, and while
there, her health gradually failing, she concluded 
to return, and in November last she came home, 
though no serious consequences were anticipated; 
in fact it was thought careful nursing and tender
care, together with the invigorating mountain air, 
would soon restore her to her usual health. 
	The funeral services were held on Sunday, June
20th, at four o'clock p.m., at her late residence,
and were conducted by Bishop Millen Atwood. 
An immense concourse of people assembled to
pay their last respects to the honored dead, and
many very beautiful floral offerings and tributes of
love and friendship were laid upon the elegant
casket, that contained the mortal remains of the
departed. 
	The services began with singing by a quartette
consisting of Mesdames Agnes Olsen Thomas
and Vilate C. Young, and Messrs H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, Mr. C. Burton playing the ac-
companiment. Opening hymn feelingly rendered—
		"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb." 
Apostle H. J. Grant offered a consoling prayer,
and the choir sang,
		"Farewell, all earthly honors,
		I bid you all adieu;" 
with the chorus, "There is sweet rest in heaven."

[Column 2]
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, who had known Sister
Wells from his childhood, delivered an eloquent
and impressive discourse, in which he spoke affec-
tionately of her many virtues and integrity of
character, and exhorted her children to emulate
her example and follow in her footsteps, and ap-
pealed to all to keep the commandments of God
and be faithful and true, as she had been. At the
close of his remarks the choir sang, 
		“Rest on the hillside, rest!" 
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop At-
wood.
	The final leave taking of the beloved one by 
her relatives, and especially her sons and daugh-
ters, was most affecting. It was almost impossible 
to induce them to take the last long farewell.
	All the pall-bearers were nephews of Sister
Wells, and as they bore her forth from the home
she had graced so long as wife and mother, every
one instinctively remembered the husband and
father so far away, who was not permitted to
soothe her dying moments, or administer conso-
lation to his grief-stricken children. In the numer-
ous events transpiring, there are many incidents
that will reflect great discredit upon the men who,
in their mistaken zeal to enforce laws made
specially to punish "Mormons," have broken up
families, separated husbands and wives and
ruined many homes, but we leave them in His
hands,Who doeth all things well. 
	A very long procession followed the deceased 
to the cemetary, where prayer was offered and 
the grave dedicated by Bishop John Q. Cannon. 
	"Aunt Louisa," the name by which Sister Wells
was best known throughout Utah, was a woman
of intense sympathy, and the most generous im-
pulses. Her hospitality was proverbial and un-
bounded and the many hundreds to whom she
has ministered comfort and help, and who have
from time to time been welcomed and entertained
by her, will miss her ever cordial greetings and
remember her with loving appreciation. As wife
and mother, Sister Wells shone brightest—gentle,
tender, noble and devoted, and as a friend to the
needy and friendless, and voluntary nurse to the
sick, her sympathy and generosity were ever en-
listed; she gave generously, and never spared her-
self trouble or inconvenience when she thought
duty or affection called her to act, or that large
charity that feels the woes and pains of others,
even though they be strangers. 
	Louisa Free Wells was the daughter of Abra-
ham and Betsy Wells, and was born in Fayette-
ville, Illinois, August 9th, 1824. As a child she
manifested undaunted courage and strength of
character, which forcibly displayed itself during
the times of the Missouri persecutions, in which
she participated while very young. She also
shared in the exodus from Nauvoo, enduring
much fatigue, hardship and exposure. Crossing
the plains from the Missouri river to the valley 
she drove an ox team, often yoking and unyoking 
the cattle herself, besides performing other labori-
ous duties and nursing the sick at night. During
this journey she became acquainted with Daniel 
H. Wells, to whom she was united in marriage in
February, 1849. She has been the mother of 
eight children, four sons and four daughters,
seven of whom are now living to mourn her irre-
parable loss. 
	For those who remain we feel the most sincere 
sympathy—hnsband, children, grandchildren, 
brother, sisters and friends, but we realize she has
gone to rest, and there are many to meet and wel-
come her in the spirit world, whom she will re-
joice to see, and those who prove faithful will
meet her again, where there will be no more pain
or sorrow forever more.
	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach 
		In love and sympathy, in hope and trust! 
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach;
	But there’s an inward spiritual speech
		That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust."


"It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again."


