SISTER E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Knowing the interest you
take in all that pertains to the Latter-day
work, I thought a few lines from St. George
would not be out of place.


On Friday morning, May 18th, the Stake 
President, Anna L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
Mary B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George to visit the western settlements of this
Stake in the interest of the Relief Society and
Primary Associations.
	On the 19th we held meeting with the good
people of Pine Valley, and had a very good
time. We then went on to Pinto, and held
meeting in the evening. On the 20th, after
meeting with the Primary, we traveled to
Hebron and held meeting, but, as the people
scatter out in the summer to look after their
cows, it leaves very few to attend meeting. We
traveled to Bishop Terry's ranch, where we
were very kindly entertained. On the 21st
we went to Clover Valley, twenty-five miles,
and put up with Bro. Lyman Woods and his
pleasant family, and the hearty welcome we re-
ceived made us feel that they appreciated the
sisters' visit. It is near three years since we
visited them, as there are so few living there,
but we had a very good meeting, and on the
22nd we proceeded on to Panacca, where we
were royally entertained by Bishop M. L. Lee.
On the 23rd we met with the Sabbath School,
as the Primary had been discontinued on ac-
count of the sickness of the President and her
Counselors. We urged the necessity of keep-
ing up the meetings. Panacca is proverbial
for its many beautiful children. In the after-
noon we met with the Relief Society; we had
but a small meeting owing to the notice not
having been received in time. On the 24th
we returned to Bishop Terry's ranch and
stayed all night. The 25th we reached
Hamblin in time for meeting at 2 p.m.; we also
met with the Primary. Great credit is due
Sister Mary Westover for the interest she has
taken in the children. It is hard to keep
meetings up in these small settlements. We
were advised not to try to cross the Clara River,
as it was high, so, on the 26th, we returned
home, having traveled 220 miles, and hope we
have done some good in urging the Saints to
their duty.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
