		WOMEN'S EDUCATION.

	The Bishop of Durham yesterday presented
the prizes to the pupils of the Stockton High
School for Girls, and in the course of an ad-
dress remarked that when he was informed that
sound religious instruction was given in the
school, he decided to accept the invitation to
be present. (Applause.) A man without re-


ligion appeared to him to be a very sorry crea-
tute—indeed, only half a man; but a woman
without religion was a libel on humanity.
(Applause.) The education of women was
becoming every day more important. There
were many reasons for this. First of all,
there was the reason as old as the hills, that
women were the great educators of the human
race. There was another reason,and that was,
that besides their home influence, women
were every day taking a more conspicuous part
in literature—(hear, hear)—and there was one
branch of literature which they had made es-
pecially their own. He referred, of course, to
fiction. Now, there was no greater influence
in morals or religion than the novel or ro-
mance, no greater influence for good or for
evil. And this department of literature, as
he had said, women had made especially their
own. A third reason for the higher education
of women was that avenues of scholastic and
professional life were opening to them in every
direction. Girls' schools of divers grades
were increasing daily, and there could be no
more honorable profession for a lady than that
of training young girls. (Applause.) In 
other ways, too, the work of women was daily
more appreciated. We had our deaconesses
and missionaries, and certainly no persons could
do more useful work for the Church of Christ
than those deaconesses and missionaries. (Ap-
plause) Regarding accomplishments, he had
not a word to say against them in themselves,
It might be a very good thing—he dare say it
was—to train young ladies in music, whether
they had an ear for it or not. (Laughter.) It
was a valuable discipline, no doubt, and per-
haps to a certain extent it might supply the
natural defect. He would not go into the sub-
ject, but what he wished to protest against was
regarding accomplishments as education. His
lordship then presented the prizes.


