	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I know you love the beautiful. Having myself
enjoyed the pleasure of being indentified with
and as one of the "Old Folks" in the excursion
on the 29th ultimo, I wish to offer a few sugges-
tions on that subject, thro' the EXPONENT, if you
have room to spare for cursory matter.
	I think it has long been a settled opinion that
youth is the season for beauty,in the face of which
it might seem preposterous to talk of beauty in
old age. Did you ever witness it?
	In the course of the day, before referred to, a
a very impressive scene of beauty was presented
before us. Did you intently view the assemblage of
"Old Folks" seated in the Bowery in American
Fork to which the generous Bishop of that locali-
ty had most kindly invited us?—I did, and with-
out the least fear of contradiction, I say it was
beautiful.
	I wish it well understood that I never seek an
elevation above, neither do I wish to be placed
below, but always like to be on a level with my
good brothers and sister. On this occasion, per-
haps some might think it intrusive in me, but it
was not my fault, for I actually was forced upon
the Platform which the good people of American
Fork had erected for the convenience of our
indefatigable, capacious-hearted Committee, where
I could overlook that large assembly.
	After having been pressed into the honorable,
elevated position, I felt determined to make the 
most of it; and, foregoing what evidently would
be considered etiquette for an aged lady, (i e. to
avoid the appearance of boldness by maintaining
a sitting posture,) I actually stood and gazed, and
the more I gazed, the more I was induced to do
so; and what did I see? A beautiful assembly
of "Old Folks," but not in any possible signifi-
cance, a representative of the “Sleeping Beauty”
—those beautiful "Old Folks" were wide awake
and seemed to have plenty of oil in their lamps.
As I looked upon them, I well knew that many
of them had several times passed through the
fire, but not to “Moloch”—it was the fire of perse-
cution, a portion of the legacy which our Savior
bequeathed to those who would follow Him.
	I know that many of those whose faces ex-
pressed integrity and firmness, had in times gone
by, drank freely of the cup of sorrow from the
merciless hand of persecution—had from time to 
time been homeless and destitute—had journeyed
over trackless wastes to this Mountain recess,
then the veriest personification of barrenness and
desolation which never would, and never could
have been redeemed from its sterility,and utilized,
by any other people than such as were before
me, whose indomitable courage, nerved by un-
swerving faith and trust in the living God, which 
inspired them with more than mortal strength to
contend with adverse circumstances and draw
forth subsistence from unpropitious elements.

[Column 2]
Now that same desert blossoms as the rose.
	I well knew that many of those aged veterans
who elicited my admiration, yes, those beautiful
"Old Folks," when reasoning from analogy in
recalling recollections of our past history, and by
the unerring spirit of prophecy, anticipate that
the furnace which is now kindled in Zion, will be
heated to its utmost capacity. They see the spoil-
ers of our peace, and opposers of the rights of
conscience and free exercise of religion, (which
is dearer to every true Latter-day Saint than
mortal life—and for which they have heretofore
suffered so much) now in our midst, plying their
sacrilegious vocation; and with all this vividly be-
fore these "Old Folks," how happy they appeared,
and how beautiful!
	I truly think I have seldom, if ever, seen beauty
in a more interesting form. Nearly every face
beamed with joy and gladness, being lighted up
by that Spirit which is the genuine promoter of
the highest and grandest type of beauty.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City July 2nd.


[Column 1]
