		﻿TRUTHFUL REASONING.

	Integrity to principle and moral courage are the
greatest incentives to honor and greatness and
when these exist in the human breast they lead
to noble ends. When an individual is convinced
of any known truth and cannot be turned aside
from a duty, they will win a prize and a name
above their fellows. The Servants of God who
have been deprived of their liberty for the Gos-
pel’s sake, will receive their reward from Him
that called them to do His work, and will have
that peace of mind that the world can neither
give or take away. They will not pander to com-
mon things, to go with the multitude to destruc-
tion, but they cling to truth and the right, which
always has its opposers, for truth contradicts error
which prevails in the main, because sin is stalking
rampant through the land, and has its votaries,
who never blush at corruption and vice, but are
horrified at a system of reform, that aims to turn
the sinner from the error of his ways, and better
his condition in this life and the next. To serve
Him who rules above, instead of serving the
powers of darkness.
	God, our Heavenly Father is the great law
giver or ruler over this planet. He has declared
himself Lord of lords and King of kings. He
at various periods of time has dethroned kings
and mighty governments, and wrought marvelous
changes in the destinies of nations. God has
chosen agents to usher in His dispensations and
decrees; but He is just, and before He takes an
action to accomplish His purposes He holds out
offers of mercy and salvation, and pleads with
His children for many years. It is now over 50
years since He sent out this proclamation by His
Elders: “Repent of all your sins and be baptised
in water for the remission of sins,in the name of
Jesus Christ.” By those He has authorized
through the Holy Priesthood, to become members
of His Church, “No man can take this honor to
himself but must be called of God as was Aaron,”
Under this head no one can be deceived, for
there will be one Lord,one faith and one baptism.
These Elders have power to bestow the Holy
Ghost, and it leads the receiver info all truth,
shows them things past, present, and to come.

[Column 2]
	Every member of the Church can know for him-
self or herself,if he sought for it in humble prayer.
God has set up His Kingdom on the earth, in the
last dispensation of the fulness of time; and He
will gather His elect from all parts of the earth,
and the honest in heart will hear the good Shep-
herd’s voice and be gathered into His fold, await-
ing His coming for He said unto John, “Surely I
come quickly.” In St. Mark chapter 13, com-
mencing at the 24th verse. He speaks of His
coming, after all the trouble had come upon the
Jews, and says He is like a man taking a far
journey and He commanded them to watch. “And
what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch.” This
was two thousand years ago, nearly; is it not
high time to watch, lest He come in a time we
think not, and we are not prepared to go into the
marriage supper of the Lamb? “For as a snare
shall it come on all them that dwell on the face
of the whole earth.” And again it reads “The
kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of His Christ; and He shall
reign forever and ever.” And it was said unto
John, thou must prophesy again before many
peoples, and nations and tongues and kings.”
In another place it reads “And I saw another
angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the Ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation and kindred and
tongue and people.” John was on the Isle of
Patmos at this time and he had to prophesy, be-
fore many people.
	If the true gospel has continued to be preached,
why this angel sent? And why have all sects 
and creeds differed from the Gospel of Christ as
He preached it? When the woman anointed
Him, He said: “Verily I say unto you, whereso-
ever this Gospel shall be preached in the whole
world, it shall be told as a memorial of her—
that is that same gospel unchanged and unmuti-
lated.
	Joseph Smith was told that the true gospel was
not on the earth, but he should be instructed so
that he should know the true gospel and he was
visited from time to time by heavenly
messengers, and the true gospel was im-
parted to this young man, and at the
minor age of 17 years he commenced
to receive a  knowledge of things, that had a
bearing on the present and future time, that no
mortal power can hinder or set aside. The
prophet of the last days, has and will accomplish
more through his knowledge of events that has
and will transpire, in the building up of God’s
Kingdom preparatory to the Savior’s coming and
the final destruction of the wicked,than any other
prophet that has lived on the earth. He taught
principles that had been hid for many generations,
and were brought to light through the Gospel.
The foundation being laid by prophets and pa-
triarchs of old through whose lineage came the
legitimate offspring and favored ones of God’s
Kingdom. Christ was of this lineage, and in the
language of Mary, “He hath holpen His servant
Israel in remembrance of His mercy; as He
speaks to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed
forever. Who are Abraham’s seed? they who do
the works of Abraham. What, God make
promises to a man with more than one wife and
concerning the Savior of the world, that He
should come through what the world considers
illegitimate offspring, and criminal parentage? I
should think, they would read their Bibles with
holy horror. And the angel said to Mary, she
should have a son. “He shall be great, and shall
be called the son of the Highest; and the Lord
God shall give unto Him the throne of His father
David; “And he shall reign over the house of
Jacob forever; and of His Kingdom there shall
be no end.” What, our Savior associate with
polygamists like David and Jacob? Surely our
righteous judges would put such men into prison
and deprive them of their rights and liberty, if


they had lived in our day? For now they strain
at gnats and swallow camels. Such people follow 
vile practices,drinking,gambling and all the vices
that are popular. 
	The sin of the "Mormons" is summed up in a
man doing what just men did in olden times to
build up a New Jerusalem, and they expect to see
the names of the twelve sons of Jacob on the gates
of that holy city, and all those who oppose plural
marriage will not want to enter there and will not
be permitted to enter in. This covenant of marriage
is again established between God and His people
to fulfil His law. They who are married in this
sacred covenant will have a progression of end-
less lives, and will be married in the Lord, and
such unions let no man put asunder, “And I
heard the number of them which were sealed,and
there were sealed a hundred and forty and four
thousand of all the tribes of the children of
Israel.” To each tribe twelve thousand. These
were redeemed from among men being the first
fruits unto God and to the Lamb." Now, He
has given a command to the Latter-day Saints to
raise up a righteous seed unto Him which will be
the same, born under the same covenant and law
of marriage. And all who are faithful to their cove-
nants, will enter in through the gates of the holy
city.
	One who is proud of the name, plural wife. 
