	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	As our thoughts and interests were now
centered upon the Pioneers, it may prove in-
teresting to learn of their whereabouts, and
how they were faring about the time of Bro.
Clayton's arrival, with others, at Winter Quar-
ters. The following extracts are from my hus-
band's journal, commencing September the
30th, which day they passed Chimney Rock
and "encamped at five p.m. on the banks of the
river, opposite a French and Indian camp, 
consisting of ten lodges."
	"The man who has charge of this camp is a
Frenchman by the name of Rashaw, who is
hired to kill game for the inhabitants of Fort
John.	*	*	Two Indians visited our
camp this evening. Col. Markham went by
appointment over to the Indian camp to make
some trades with them for the brethren. I
sent by him a horn of powder to sell for the
money. He returned about eight this evening
with the intelligence that the Frenchmen had
proposed if we would stay here to-morrow and
assist them in hunting buffaloes they would
give us half the game that should be killed. 
Accordingly, it was decided to accept of the
offer, and orders were issued this evening that
no man should leave the camp in the morning
without permission of his captain." 
	The morning of the 1st of October he
wrote, "Some ten or twelve Indians passed our
camp and went out hunting.  Brigham, Heber
and several others also went out on horseback
—they returned about 4 p.m.;  had seen quite a 
large herd of buffalo cows, but when they
came to them found George R. Grant chasing

[Column 2]
them so that they could not get a fair shot;
owing to this and Mr. Rashaw with his men
not appearing to assist them in the hunt they
did not secure any game themselves."
	Mr. Rashaw afterwards informed them that
he had instructed the Indians to kill more
than they themselves wanted and give the sur-
plus quantity to our brethren. He speaks of
going to the Indian lodges with George Bil-
lings and John Buchanan, where they "ex-
changed a small quantity of salt, powder, and
a powder horn for considerable tallow and
meat. A number of others made exchanges
of a like nature with the squaws, who visited
the camp during the day." 
	That evening they learned that the Indians 
who went out in the morning had killed about
twenty cows, but whether they would be bene-
fitted by it or not, they had no knowledge.
The same day Commodore Stockton and com-
pany, who were from the Bay of San Francisco, 
came in sight and encamped three or four
miles from there. The morning of the 2nd a
messenger (Col. Little) was dispatched to the
camp of Commodore Stockton to ascertain his
intentions about accompanying them. The
messenger brought the news that he intended
to cross the river and take the way to St. 
Joseph, Mo., as he thought that to be a much
nearer road to the states than the one the
pioneers were pursuing. President Young, 
father and others of the brethren dined with
the Commodore, and the same day some of 
the pioneers "bought a number of horses, and
Dr. Richards one cow, of the Frenchmen."
	"We renewed our journey at 8 a.m., *	*
and encamped on the banks of the river op-
posite the ancient Bluff Ruins, near which N. 
Fairbanks was bitten by a rattlesnake on our
journey out." 
	They traveled very slowly, owing to the de-
lays occasioned by the killing of buffaloes, as
it was considered good policy to lay up a sup-
ply of meat while they had the opportunity, 
most of the camp depending solely upon that
for subsistence; being entirely destitute of 
flour and other provisions. The evening of
the 4th it was thought advisable to raise volun-
teers to go ahead on foot to arrest the progress
of the ox teams. Amasa Lyman with twelve
others volunteered to go on this expedition.  
"A letter was written and signed by the Presi-
dent and Dr. Richards to the captains of the
company ahead, containing instructions for
them to stop and kill buffaloes and dry the
meat till they should come up, that they might
relieve them of some of their wagons, or of
the loads in them. They were well armed and
started before daylight the next morning. The
camp overtook two of them the day following
—John Buchanan and John Crow—the former
had been taken sick, and was obliged to stay
behind. They stated that the rest left there
the night before at eleven o'clock, and were in-
tending to travel all night."
	On the 7th he notes down the following
amusing incident, which occurred soon after
they left their noon halting place. "Brother
Woodruff with his carriage, Dr. Richards, 
Bro. Benson and a number of others, includ-
ing myself, had preceded the wagons about
half a mile, when all at once we noticed, stand
ing by the side of the road, within a few yards
of us, a buffalo bull of rare size. Bro. Ben-
son rode up close to him, but he would not re-
treat an inch; on the contrary, shaking his
head fiercely and elevating his back, he mani
fested evident symptoms of hostility towards
us, and would, no doubt, have made an attack
upon us had we not been so numerous; as it
was he remained firm and immovable as if he
were lord of the soil, and possessed both the
power and inclination to dispute successfully
the passage of the road. We finally caused
him to flee, after the teams came up, by send
ing our dogs after him."

[Column 3]
	The same day he mentions meeting a party
of mountaineers on their way from Independ-
ence, Mo., to Fort John. They had seen the
pioneers from the other side of the river, and
came over for the purpose of holding an inter-
view. "Their leader gave his name and title
as Captain Walker. Their numbers were
eight men. "Captain Walker imparted some
news to us of a general nature, which we were
not before in possession of, concerning the war
between the United States and Mexico; we
learned that after some little cessation it was
now being prosecuted with renewed vigor.	*
He also stated that packet steamers were now
plying regularly between St. Louis and Coun-
cil Bluffs; that we would find plenty of buffalo
for a hundred or more miles, as we passed
along down the Platte River. He himself
intends to proceed as far as Fort Bridger, and
for aught he knows, to Weber's Fork, near the
Salt Lake. A number of letters were written
by different ones to send by him to the valley. 
*	*	After spending about an hour with
Captain Walker and his comrades we bade
them farewell and pursued our journey."
	They encamped at 5 p.m., having made
twelve miles that day. He says the grass here
was comparatively green and high—fuel, buffalo
chips, as usual. Soon after our arrival this
evening our Frenchmen came, bringing with
them a letter which they found in a stick by
the side of the road, near a creek about a mile
below here. This, on being opened, proved to
be from Wm. Clayton. It stated that they
had passed here the 1st of Oct, being six days
ahead of us, and were intending to continue
on till they should arrive at some place where
there is plenty of wood, and there make a
short delay while they should procure an ad-
ditional quantity of buffalo meat, several of
them being short of provisions.	*	*
We also learned that they travelled from fif-
teen to twenty miles a day, and if this be the
case they must be a hundred or more miles in
advance of us.  Appended to the letter were
a few lines from Amasa Lyman, stating his
determination to overtake them, if he had to
follow them to Winter Quarters."
	The morning of the 8th, after proceeding a
mile we saw the stake in which the letter writ-
ten by Wm. Clayton was found. "On one
side of this was inscribed the following:  '12, 
B. Y. and Council—A. L.' The last two letter
are the initials of Amasa Lyman, and were
probably written by him as he and his com-
rades passed along. Here the ox teams had
encamped, and there were evident signs that
they had remained a day or two."
	"A large band of elk made their appearance
upon the brow of the hill to our left. Two or
three brethren went out to get a shot at them, 
but soon returned without success: Two of
our Frenchmen, being mounted on mules, suc-
ceeded in killing one of them." The same
evening he mentions himself and his brother
Orson being quite unwell, owing to their using
so much meat, as they had not tasted of any
other kind of food for three weeks.  He also
wrote, "My pony, continuing to fail rapidly, 
to-night I turned him loose, considering that
it was as well for him to live and be stolen by
the Indians, as to die by starvation among
us."
	This was the day that our brethren started
from Winter Quarters to meet them, and there
was certainly good cause for the anxious fears
which filled our bosoms and stimulated us to
pray without ceasing, not only for the pioneers, 
but that the Lord would speed the brethren on
the way to their rescue.


Miss Alice Fisher, of Terre Haute, will
read the Declaration of Independence at the
Knights of Labor and Trades Unions' Fourth
of July celebration in that city.


