		RICHMOND PRIMARY.
	The seventh annual meeting of the Rich-
mond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1886, at two p.m. There were present, Sisters
Jane E. Molen, Mattie Hansen, Maud Burton,
of the P.A. of the Stake, and Margaret Young,
of Salt Lake City, and Martha Williams of
Smithfield, besides several other visitors, and
the ward authorities, Sister Myra Merrill, Prest.
of the Relief Society, and a great many pa-
rents of the children.
	After the opening exercises, minutes of the 
sixth annual meeting were read and approved,
also the financial and statistical reports of the
past year. The officers for the ensuing year
were presented by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore
as follows: Mary Allsop, President; Mary
Monson and Maggie W. Thompson Counselors;
Satie J. Petty, Secretary; Jane Hyer, Assistant
Secretary; Byrdie Harrison, Treasurer; Libbie
A. Merrill, Organist. All were unanimously 
sustained. The programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, addresses, etc., was very well
rendered.
	Sister Margaret Young addressed the child-
ren, gave good instructions and spoke in 
tongues, interpreted by Sister Mattie Hansen;
it was an address to the children.
	Sister Mattie Hansen next addressed the
children; counseled them to be obedient, keep
good order and not to bang their hair.
	Sister Maud Burton was the next speaker;
was pleased to see so many children, especially
so many boys. Counseled them to improve
their time and attend their meetings.
	Sister Martha Williams was pleased to meet
with us, said we should be good to the poor,
and not be proud, we should keep the word of
wisdom. Sister Hannah Brower read a few
lines that she composed about the Primary
quilt.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen was pleased to meet
with us said our primaries are to strengthen
our minds in spiritual things; asked God's
blessings to be with us. We come 
to these meetings to learn the principles of the
Gospel.
	Bishop Wm. S. Skidmore gave many good
instructions: "Let us endeavor to be good, be
prayerful, and obedient to your parents, love
your brothers and sisters, be punctual to your
meetings. Emma Osmond and Nellie Nibley
presented Sister Allsop with a present, accom-
panied with an appropriate address.
	The statistical and financial report of the
Richmond Primary Association, beginning
June 1st, 1885, and ending June 1st, 1886, was 
read:
	Number of officers, 7; number of members,
210; Total, officers and members, 217; average
attendance, 95; meetings held, 49; cash remain-
ing in treasury from year previous, $8.25; re-
ceived from members during year, $6.52; total,
$14,77. Disbursments: Primary banner, $1.
35; writing material, $1; cards, $5.12; calico,
batting, thread and needles for quilt, $3.90;
total expense, $11.37; cash on hand, $3.40;
property, $11.50.
			SATIE J. PETTY, Secretary,
			JANE HYER, Ass't Sec.


[Column 1]
