ETHICS OF WOMAN'S BEST.

	Let every woman who finds her vital forces 
failing, who is growing nervous, as well as al-
ways weary, whose chief longing is for rest of
mind and body, who begins to feel that life is
not worth the living, stop now and here. Cut
off all expenditure of effort that is not an ab-
solute necessity, and curtail that necessity as
much as possible. I do not mean that you
should give up your worthy aims and purposes,
but be sure that you can devote yourself to
them safely.
	Remember this: It is as important that 
you should keep a reserve of physical power
on hand for future draughts, as that you
should provide in a financial way for sickness,
accident, and declining years.
	So long as youth lasts you do not greatly 
feel this exhaustion of the physical forces—
that is, your powers of recuperation are greater
—yet every time you draw upon your strength
to excess, you are obliged to go deeper and
deeper into your vital resources in order to
make repairs. And you never do get quite
back to the old place, even though you are not
conscious at the time of the fact. You find
after a while that a night's sleep does not
make you as good as new again, after "over-
doing," but it takes another day of rest and
night of slumber to enable you to get back
to your usual vigor.
	You cannot help it? I know it is true of 
some of you, that there are duties so absolute
in their demands that you are compelled to
do them as long as you are able to bear the
strain, but by care and thoughtful precaution,
the effort in performing these can be greatly
lessened.
	Social ambition in some cases—the fear of 
not doing as your neighbor does—a false idea
of duty in others, a desire to accomplish much
that would be pleasant to be able to do, the
inability to say no to demands made upon
time and energies, all of these things, singly
or together, cause women to apply the lash
when they find their physical powers lagging,
and on they go until they fall down in their 
tracks.—Emily Bouton.


The new Woman's Hospital Building at
Chicago was opened a few days ago.


