		A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	"Hear the mellow wedding bells,
		Golden bells!
	What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
	Through the balmy air of night
	How they ring out their delight!
	From the molten golden notes,
		And all in tune,
	What a liquid ditty floats
	To the turtle-dove that listens while she gloats
		On the moon!"

	The half century of married life seldom passes
and leaves both bride and bridegroom in posses-
sion of life, health and all the faculties. This,
however, is the case with Brother and Sis-
ter Nathan Tanner who celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of their wedding day
at the residence of F. S. Richards
of this city, whose wife is their daughter.
The affair was a brilliant success and Mr. and
Mrs. Richards deserve great credit for the pleasure
conferred upon the guests as well as the honor to
the aged couple expressed in such a fitting manner
as this golden celebration. Mr. and Mrs. Tanner
are still, notwithstanding their age, a very hand-
some couple and one could scarcely believe they
had seen so many years of active service in this
workaday world. The party was an interesting
one in many respects, and especially so in the con-
geniality of feeling manifested among the "old
friends and true," of the happy pair. There were
represented among the guests one Apostle, three
or four Bishops, people who had been associated
in Kirtland, numbering twelve, of those in Misouri,
fourteen, in Nauvoo, twenty-three. There were
also three brethren who had been members of
Zion's Camp, and two of the Mormon Battalion. It
is seldom that in a gathering of this kind one
finds so many of the Saints of early days, whose
lives have been more or less interwoven with each
other in the history at that period.
	The bride and groom are not only large, erect
and fine looking, but were dressed in excellent
taste. The gray dress of the bride was of some
soft material that hung gracefully about her
slender figure, and the fine white tulle she wore
about her neck fell to the waist in a most becom-
ing style. The other ladies present were also
handsomely attired, and some of them wore ex-
quisite old lace, as well as possessing many genu-
ine attractions to charm the eye and ear. Apostle
F. S. Richards and wife, Judge Snow and wife,
Bates Nobles and wife, Sisters Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Bathsheba W. Smith, the widow of Amasa Ly-
man, and other distinguished people honored the
occasion by their presence. The large and elegant
ly furnished parlors were well filled with the com-
pany which had gathered from Montana, Idaho,
California, and Wyoming as well as Utah. Ele-
gant and costly presents were also sent from a
distance and many were the sincere congratula-
tions and hearty wishes for continued happiness
and prosperity.
	At six p.m. bride and groom led the way to the
way to the dining room where a sumptuous dinner
awaited the guests. Apostle F. D. Richards
pronounced the blessing and a general conversa-
tion was kept up, every one evidently heartily en-
joying the delicious and tempting viands set be-
fore them. The table was profusely and artistical-
ly ornamented with choice and fragrant flowers,
and in the center was an elaborate wedding cake,
at the side of which were the figures 1836, 1886,
and at the very top of the ornament that decorated

[Column 2]
it were two doves typical of the love and happi-
ness of the lifetime of the happy past, as well
as the auspicious future of the aged couple. There
was also a very handsome bride's cake with a
verse on it which ran thns.
	Full fifty years have passed away,
		Their hands and hearts yet true in love.
	For their Diamond time, we trust and pray,
		Happy as this their Golden Day.
	Some of the china used at the dinner was half
a century old and some even more; there were
also gold teaspoons sent as wedding presents
from a long distance. Many were the toasts of-
fered in which all present heartily joined and the
feeling was one of unity and love, and a desire
that these two who had begun life together and
succeeded in rearing a large family here, might
participate in all the great blessings and secure
to themselves and their posterity eternal lives and
inheritances in the celestial kingdom. While
dinner was being served sweet music lent
enchantment to the hour and nothing seemed
wanting to add to the enjoyment of the unique
occasion.
	During the evening there was singing and
music at intervals, and Mrs. Mattie Cannon read
a poem composed for the occasion, which elicited
considerable applause, as well as the songs and
instrumental music. Another feature of the oc-
casion was the guests writing their names and a
sentiment or expressive wish in an autograph
album to be preserved as a souvenir of the Gold-
en Wedding.


[Column 1]
