			SANPETE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Sanpete
Stake Relief Society, held at Wales, June
12th, 1886. Opening services offered. Minutes
of last conference read. Verbal reports given
by presidents of different branches.
	Counselor Sarah Petersen said the sisters of
Ephraim were in a thriving condition, and
were busily engaged in making cheese for the
Temple, and are raising a little money for
Bro. Kemp's family; who is now in prison in
Detroit, Michigan. Spoke on the storage of
grain; hoped we would take care of the wheat 
we have and keep it in good condition. Ad-
vised the sisters to subscribe for the EXPON-
ENT.
	Coun. E. Allred felt pleased to meet in a 
conference capacity; thought the sisters of San-
pete were trying to live their religion; said, "It
behooves us to live faithful, that we may be 
able to pass through the persecutions that are
being heaped upon us.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde had been interested in
the remarks made by the sisters, and bore her
testimony to the truth of plural marriage. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith taught it to her but she 
opposed it at first, and it seemed impossible
for her to embrace it. She prayed to God to
reveal it to her if it was right, and He gave
her a testimony that it was. Felt that this
was a glorious work that we were engaged in.
She afterwards spoke in tongues, and the inter-
pretation was given by Sister Casto: "The
Lord has in store far higher blessings than the
persecutions, if we are only faithful. Prepare
yourselves, that you may be able to work in 
the Temple of God for your dead friends.
You presidents of Relief Society should watch
over your flocks and pray for the brethren who 
have been cast into prison and those who are 
in exile, that the Spirit of God may be with 
them."
	Bishop Reese testified that this was the work
of God, and that His Spirit had been in our 
midst. Bishop Farnsworth spoke of the in-
structions that had been given, and if we 
would carry them into effect they would be of 
benefit unto us. Spoke of the sisters making
carpet for the Temple.
	Conference adjourned to meet at Fairview,

[Column 2]
September 11th, 1886. Choir sang Doxology.
Benediction by Henry Reese.
	There are 1,677 members in Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, and on hand in cash, $1043 34;
property, valued at $3,882.40; real estate,
valued at $7,978.26.
		MARY A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.
