		FOREIGN LETTER.

	We left Chicago the 28th of April, and
sailed from New York on the first of May on
the S. S. Servia for Liverpool. We had a 
rough voyage. Five of the sailors were
washed from the rigging on to the main deck
by the gale on the second day out; one was in-
stantly killed; another died some days after,
and all of them were seriously hurt. On ac-

[Column 2]
count of the storm we were two days late in
reaching Liverpool, and owing to that fact we
had the pleasure of seeing Queen Victoria, who
was there to open the International Exposi-
tion, and the first time she had been there for
thirty-five years; she drove past the hotel where
we were staying twice in an open carriage, so
that we had a good view of the "fine old lady;"
she is rather good looking, but dresses very
plainly.
	We went from Liverpool to Manchester, the
great manufacturing city of England, there we
visited the Board of Trade, where the price of
cotton is fixed for the whole world. We also
went to the Court of Assizes and there were the
grey wigs, the gowns and knee breeches worn
by the Judges, the Lawyers and Jury, which 
we only see on the stage at home,all using quill
pens.
	We visited the Town Hall and many
other places in Manchester, and then went on
to London, passing through many towns whose
names were familiar, such as Rugby, where
"Tom Brown" studied and "Arnold" taught.
The country in England is beautiful; all in the
highest state of cultivation. It reminds one
of our parks in America, with an occasional
small ploughed field. We stayed in London
ten days, every moment of whlch was passed
in viewing the wonderful old city. We rode
all over London on the top of "busses." All
the street cars and busses being made with
seats on top, which seem to be the favorite
places. Of course we went to Westminster
Abbey, admired its grandeur, and gazed with 
wonder at the magnificent statues of marble
and bronze, and at the tombs of dead and gone
kings and queens, earls, dukes, etc, also states-
men, poets and historians, many of whose 
names are familiar—such as Grey, Dryden,
Campbell and others of world-wide fame. We
went to the tower and were shown many curi-
ous things in the way of armor and implements
of warfare; also the crown jewels which we
were told were worth fifteen millions of dol-
lars. We were then shown the dungeons, and
the rooms where the unfortunates were im-
prisoned before their execution—in the stone
wall of which were carved many names, among
which was "Jane," carved by Lady Jane Grey,
and others equally familiar. We were shown
the very block and axe used at the execution
with horrible instruments of torture, and so
many other horrible things, I was glad to get
out of the old place.
	We went to St. Paul's Cathedral, the Na-
tional Art Gallery, the British Museum,South
Kensington, the Colonial Exposition, Crystal
Palace, Buckingham Palace, Hyde, St. James
and other parks—the theater, where, by the
way, we were requested to remove our hats, a
good plan, too, I think, for our country to 
adopt. We took a sail up the Thames and
went to many other places too numerous to
mention here. We left London with regret,
going via. Dover & Calais to Paris, and
reached there in the evening. I had never
imagined a city could be made so lovely; every-
thing seems so gay, bright and happy looking.
The streets are wide and clean, with rows of
trees on either side, and every short distance a
little park and a beautiful fountain or statue,
with lovely parks and drives.—We staid eight
days, which, to me, were like so many days in
fairy land. We went to Versailles, the
Louvre, the Tomb of Napoleon, Cluny Palace,
Notre Dame and many other noted places, be-
sides spending about half of each day in driv-
ing, during which time we were constantly
seeing something new and beautiful. At night
we went to theatres or walked about the streets,
where, it seemed to me, all Paris must be
from eight o'clock until one and two in the 
morning. The Grand Opera House is said to
be the finest in the world, and I can readily 
believe it. 
	We left Paris for Cologne, stayed there over

[Column 3]
night, and drove through the town in the early
morning, then took a boat on the Rhine for
Mayence. You know we read and are
told much of the beauties of the Rhine, but
"the half was never told." Its numerous old
castles built so many, many years ago, a few
of which are now occupied, but most of them
in ruins, built high up among the hills and
mountains, that border this historical river;
clean, quiet little towns in the valleys, while
every available foot of ground on the moun-
tains is covered with grape vines, all terraced
to keep it from sliding. These places are en-
deared to us all in song or romance, such as
the Lonely Rock, on which the very spot was
pointed out to us where the maiden sat and
sung and combed her hair with the golden
comb, and Bingen which we passed, and thought
of "the soldier who lay dying at Algiers,"
Apollonaris, where all the water of that name
drank in America comes from, etc,. etc. From
Magence we came to "Frankfort on the Main,"
which is an interesting old town, dating back
to the days of Charlemagne, or about 790. We 
are now at Hamburg, where we will remain
some little time, then go through Switzerland,
then take a boat on the Danube for Vienna,
etc.
							E. S. S.
	Hotel Bellerna, Hamburg, June 10, 1886.


