	PRINCESS STREET, EDINBURGH

	It is said that Princess Street, Edinburgh, is
the finest in the world, and one can readily be-
lieve it. It is the first one sees, whichever of
the two lines of railroad he may enter the
city by. In olden times the celebrated Castle
Hill, a position almost impregnable, was par-
tially surrounded by a moat, which in later
days was converted into a large canal, or dock.
The Edinburgh then existing was built on the
side of the dock on which the Castle is situated,
and is now known as "Old Edinburgh," as dis-
tinguished from the modern part of this re-
markably beautiful city. On the old side the
buildings were of irregular height, yet built
comparatively together, and followed the shape
of the ground, which rises as it runs toward
the west, and terminates abruptly in a huge
cliff or overhanging the precipice, on the verge of
which is built the walls surrounding the Castle.
As the eye travels from the east to the west,
noting the old fashioned architecture of the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which is still
preserved, with its delightful irregularity and
bold projections intermingled with portions as
deepened in shadow as the other is full with
light, the Castle (towering above on a hill or
cliff whose perpendicular sides are of impreg-
nable rock) fulfills the purpose of a climax,
and is one of sure magnificence and unques-
tioned grandeur. As the buildings have fol-
lowed the line of the old docks, of course they
run nearly east and west. But a small portion
of this once water way is now used as a rail-
way depot, while the remainder has been con-
verted into one of the sweetest and most at-
tractive public gardens the eye could wish to
rest on. These gardens are in breadth perhaps
150 rods or more, with the exception of the
portion used for the railway, and being of an
undulating character, give opportunity for
that pleasing variety which is the charm of
landscape gardening. Running east and west
along the north side of these gardens is Prin-
cess Street, the right side skirting the gardens,
and the north devoted to business places—the
principal hotels, club houses and fashionable
business establishments being located on it.
	Here "New Edinburgh" begins. Going over
to the north side of the gardens, one can either
ascend their grassy slopes, or climb an eleva-
tion in the "old city,” [-]ud, till his heart fills
with pleasure, gaze down o[-] the fair-grounds
and view the new or modern Edinburgh
stretching away for miles beneath his feet,
while from the north, or new side, the bold
front of Castle Hill, and the broken and fan-
tastic architecture of the old city lend a charm
to the intervening gardens, that is inexpressibly
captivating. The view is materially enhanced
because of the absence of anything to break
the prospect. The only buildings between
Princess Street, for the length of the gardens,
and "old Edinburg," are the Academy of De-
signs and the Art Gallery. The rare beauty
of Princess Street is due to this unbroken
view of the old city and to the breadth of
view and unlimited variety of scenery it pre-
sents (from frowning and massive cliffs and
undulating and grassy slopes to the terraced
walks, rural retreats and health distilling foun-
tains embraced within the remarkably limited
area of the gardens) and not because of the
magnificence of the buildings which, (though
they are fairly massive and pleasing to the eye)
adorn it on the north side, and mark the be

[Column 2]
ginning of new Edinburgh. Another feature
which contributes to the beauty of this street
is the superb monument of Sir Walter Scott,
which stands at the north east corner of the
gardens, and looks like an unwearying sentinel,
visible alike from the new and the old side. At
the east end of the street rises the Calton Hill.
On this, and over looking Princess Street,
stands the monument to Nelson. Still further
east, though not so high, but on the same emin-
ence, are the few fluted columns which mark
the spot where Edinburgh began the erection
of a monument to Scotland's greatest lyrist,
Robert Burns. Because, however, of a failure
of her citizens to contribute, and their nig-
gardly refusal to accede to the modest request
of Glasgow (that the Glasgow coat of arms
might be placed on the monument when com-
pleted, conditioned upon her furnishing suffi-
cient means to complete the magnificent work)
it remains as though only commenced, and is
now popularly known os "Scotland's Disgrace."
Still further away is the highest point in the
vicinity, which is also visible from this street,
called "Arthur's Seat." Walking the length
of this rare street, and it is not very long, one
can see that which will delight alike the ad-
mirer of old styles of architecture, as shown
in "Old Edinburgh;" the student of history
whose ancient lore is revealed by the silent
tongue of the old Castle and its scarred and
precipitous foundation; the lover of modern
civilization as displayed in parks and architec-
ture of a more recent date, and those who love
nature in her varied forms. There is no season,
no hour, when this street does not present a
succession of scenes of rare beauty and sublimi-
ty. The gray and rosy dawn, the deepening
twilight, the cloudy hours, the full blaze of the
mid-day sun, or its first rays or fading tints,
the tender glory of the young moon, and the
broader, fuller and purer light of the glowiug
orb of night with its deeper shadows, each re-
veals beauties known only to itself, and in
forms that vary with the changing hours. The
old city with its rugged front looks like another
world in the darkened night, when from out
the numberless windows (which rise higher
and higher above the unfathonable blackness
beneath) the light gleams forth, just as we
might imagine fires, in infinite numbers, burst-
ing through a solid and impregnable wall, so
high that the blue sky and its starry gems
seem to rest upon its serried and broken bat-
tlements. And when the soft haze of linger-
ing eve, mellowed by the tender and loving
glory of a rising moon, reveals but dimly the
outlines, toning down and hiding the deep
scars in the rugged cliff, it seems like some
fair world lifted far up into the azure heavens,
so ethereal and tender that even a breath
might dissolve, yet inaccessinle because of the
solemn darkness beneath. Is it a wonder that
this street should be the unrivalled?
							R. W. S.


