[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THIS Centennial year a number of women writers are helping to establish Utah history and to give the flavor of Latter-day Saint character and ideals in their literary works. Mrs. Anna Prince Redd has two serials running, one in The Improvement Era and one in The Relief Society Magazine, portraying the dramatic settlement of San Juan County. Mrs. Jessie Sherwood, formerly of Boston and now living in Monticello, Utah, has been working on biographical sketches of San Juan pioneers, some of which are appearing in The Improvement Era. Mrs. Mabel Harmer has written a story entitled Dennis and the Mormon Battalion. Mrs. Helen Cortez Stafford of California, has given the story of Mrs. Ann Phelps Rich in her Sweet Love Remembered. The poems of Edna S. Dustin, many of which have appeared in the Church periodicals, have been collected and published in a volume called Sagebrush and Wagon Wheels. An illustrated book, recently off the press, is A Garden of Thought-Blossoms. This is a collection of poems by Elsie E. Barrett, who is eighty years old and a member of Wilshire Ward Relief Society in Los Angeles, California. Poems of hers have also appeared in The Relief Society Magazine. The Hills Are Mine is a novel of Mormon life in Utah written by
SEVERAL outstanding women, who have helped to make our 100 years of Utah history, have died recently. They are:
Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson Wilcox, eighty-nine, for twelve years a member of the General Board of Relief Society, who worked particularly on health education for homemakers. She was a charter member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, the principal of a school, and one of the group who helped to establish the first free kindergarten in Utah nearly fifty years ago.
Mrs. Minnie Barnes Blood, seventy-four, widow of former Utah Governor Henry H. Blood. Mrs. Blood was noted for her graciousness and the excellence of her homemaking.
Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Bolin, eighty-seven, a cousin of Woodrow Wilson, twenty-seventh president of the United States. She moved from New York to Utah in 1890, after she and her husband had joined the Church.
Mrs. Ann Higgs Clayton Jensen, ninety-three, a pioneer of Sanpete County whose first husband was William Clayton, author of the Latter-day Saint hymn "Come, Come Ye Saints."
Mrs. Winnifred Morris Tibbs, ninety-one, a Relief Society worker for more than fifty years, and author of Autumn Leaves, a collection of poems written and published after she was eighty years old.