[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Latter-day Saint Thomas]
Page 224
Latter-Day Saint Pioneers in New Mexico Estelle Webb Thomas HE high plateau country of New Mexico is divided almost in half by the Rio Grande River, which rises in the Colorado mountains to the north and flows southward to El Paso, Texas, from which place it outlines, for many miles, the border between Texas and Old Mexico.
Before the white men came, many tribes of Indians claimed the blue hills, the high mountains, and the cactus-clad deserts of New Mexico.
These were the wild and nomadic Navajos, Apaches, and Comanches, and the more civilized Pueblo people who lived along the valley of the Rio Grande in agricultural communities.
White men explored the wilderness of New Mexico long before the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth Rock, before Jamestown, Virginia, was settled, and very soon after the discovery of Florida by the Spaniards. Thus, the trails of white men in New Mexico are very old, and the story of early exploration in this region is linked with the conquistadors and their search for the Seven Cities of Cibola, which were supposed to contain great wealth and treasure. Between 1528 and 1536, Cabeza de Vaca visited many of the Pueblo villages. He was followed by other explorers and, by 1598, a colony of 400 white men and their families was established at San Juan under the leadership of Juan de Onate. In 1605, the settlement of Santa Fe was begun. The advent of the Latter-day Saints into New Mexico began with the perilous trek of the Mormon Battalion. In 1846, after the saints had left Nauvoo and while they were traveling through Iowa, they were called upon to furnish 500 men to take part in the war against Mexico.
With much difficulty and many hardships, the Mormon Battalion was marshalled and, during September and October, the men, in several detachments, arrived in Santa Fe.
From that place they traveled down the Rio Grande almost to El Paso, Texas, and then turned westward toward the Gila River and the deserts of Arizona. Thus, the brave Battalion men crossed through a large part of New Mexico.
They suffered greatly from fatigue, hunger, thirst, and from diseases of various kinds.
Many of the men died en route and so were never reunited with their families in the valleys of the mountains. Ten years after the pioneers arrived in Salt Lake Valley, Jacob Hamblin, the famous scout and frontiersman, crossed the Colorado River and began his work as a missionary-explorer of the canyon country. His contacts with the Indians eventually led him, as well as other missionaries, into the New Mexico hills northwest of the section traversed earlier by the Mormon Bat-talion. The usual pattern of history in the Southwest was followed in the case of the Latter-day Saint settlement. First, came the missionaries, then, the settlers. The first to build homes were Lorenzo Hatch and John Maughn, who settled in the Zuni pueblo country in 1876. Luther Burnham, who had been a missionary among the Indians for two years, brought his family, in 1877, to Savoia (later Ramah), which was named for the Spanish word "cebolla," meaning onion.
This frontier settlement, almost straight west of Albuquerque and near the Arizona- New Mexico boundary, was sur-rounded by weird mesa mountains and a great expanse of desert.
After two years here, since the uncertain temper of the Indians made life hazardous for a young family, Elder Burnham was advised by the Church authorities to move to St. Johns, Arizona, where the Latter-day Saints were building a settlement. Two years later he was again sent to New Mexico.
This time he settled on the San Juan River, near the Utah border, where many of his descendants still live.
During the period of early settlement, the San Juan Stake extended from Moab, on Grand River, Utah, to Hammond (now Bloomfield), New Mexico, on the San Juan River. Visiting Church authorities from Salt Lake City had to travel about six hundred miles by wagon or buggy, over the roughest and most primitive roads, to cover this stake. In May 1912 it was divided and the eastern part, lying in New Mexico, has since been called the Young Stake. Had a Church social last night; took in thirty dollars, guaranteeing us another month of school.
Contrast this entry from an old Church record, and the picture it presents, with the beautiful, modern chapel, up-to-date consolidated school, fine residences, farms, and orchards of the Kirtland Ward to-day, and the story of the Latter-day Saints in New Mexico during the past half century is dramatically told. WHEN the Bumhams arrived on the San Juan there were only four or five white families in this region, although farther up the river the little town of Farmington was already well established. The treaty of 1868 had been long enough in force so that the Indians, as a whole, were friendly and peace-able, and the attitude of the Latter-day Saints fostered this spirit.
True to Brigham Young's admonition to feed rather than to fight the Indians, the saints were quick with neighborly overtures and, though there were a few unhappy incidents and soldiers were called from Fort Wingate to restore order, it was not long before the Navajos regarded the saints as friends and benefactors. A number of the pioneers set up trading posts and the Indians soon came in large groups to trade and barter their rugs, wool, and mutton. Sister Betsy Burnham, wife of George Burnham, a brother of the bishop, wrote to relatives that night-fall often found the house full of Indians—men, women, and children.
They were always fed and beds spread down in the yard or, if it chanced to be winter, before the fireplace.
Often the floor was so covered with sleeping Navajos that it was difficult to pass through the room. The same condition obtained wherever the saints were to be found. Leslie Clawson, of Ramah, writes: It was no uncommon thing to see twenty or thirty Navajos at our house on friendly visits for a day or so at a time. My mother fed and helped them with beds, etc.
Although times were hard in this new country, the Mormons always felt it was up to them to help the Indians if necessary.
There were few Mexicans on the San Juan at this time, since the Mexicans and Indians had long been traditional enemies.
There was one fellow, however, Costiano, who had maintained his standing by bullying and bombast. One night, crazed with drink, he attempted and almost succeeded in breaking up a dance in Fruitland, but Claibourne Brimhall, a fearless young fellow, braved the brandishing gun and forcibly eject-ed the big Mexican from the building.
Next day, Costiano, sober and embarrassed, made abject apologies for his misbehavior. The settlers lost no time in set-ting out orchards and laying out farms.
Harnessing the waters of the San Juan was a hard and expensive task, but the settlers were rich in the essentials of pioneering— health, energy and enthusiasm and, most important of all, faith.
Soon they were harvesting hay, wheat, and corn, as well as vegetables.
Though some articles were hard to get, there were no starvation periods as in some new communities.
