[Vol34 | April 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Greatest Miracle Kimball]
More than 500 unimpeachable witnesses had contact with him.
They walked with him, talked with him, ate with him, felt the flesh of his body and saw the wounds in his side and feet and hands; discussed with him the program which had been common to them, and him; and, by many infallible proofs knew and testified that he was risen, and that that last and most dreaded enemy, death, had been overcome.
THE GREATEST MIRACLE
And they testified, also, that since he had opened the grave, many others had been likewise raised into immortality through the same program, and had likewise been identified and accepted in Jerusalem. And so, for forty days, the earth he had created was sanctified by his presence; his Church was perfected; his people were inspired with a fire that would never be extinguished; and then he ascended to his Father in Heaven. Our abhorrence at his torture and our sorrow at his ignoble death are turned to joy and gratitude as we realize in the miracle of the resurrection the mastery over death. The Master himself predicted our deep emotions: Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you (John 16:20-22). To the Latter-day Saints the resurrection is indeed a reality, for resurrected beings have appeared in this dispensation.
John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Savior, beheaded by Herod, came to restore the Aaronic Priesthood and, embodied with a 223 tabernacle of flesh and bones, he laid his hands upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, conferring upon them the Priesthood. Peter, James, and John, the apostles, in resurrected bodies, came to restore to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, the Melchizedek Priesthood. Moroni, last heard of in the vicinity of Hill Cumorah about fourteen centuries earlier, came again in the nineteenth century to bring the Book of Mormon plates, and to teach the gospel to the boy Prophet; and God the Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ, appeared in the grove to the young Prophet. And so we bear testimony that the being who created the earth and its contents, who made numerous appearances upon the earth prior to his birth in Bethlehem, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is resurrected and immortal, and that this great boon of resurrection and immortality becomes now, through our Redeemer, the heritage of mankind, and we cry to all the inhabitants of the earth— in the words of Mary Connelly Kimball: Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead.
Awake to an appreciation of all that is highest and best.
Live not the narrow sordid life, but the big life of helpfulness.
Cast away the cloak of selfishness, put on the mantle of love. Awake! Arise! Go forth with a light step, a glad heart, a happy smile, for Christ is risen! He has conquered death, hell, and the grave!
Honor and praise him for, through his atoning sacrifice, the grave has lost its victory, death its sting, and all shall come forth from the tomb to the judgment.
Burst forth into singing, you ransomed ones.
Praise him who-has ascended on High. Note: Mary Connelly Kimball will be remembered as the gracious and gifted editor of The Relief Society Magazine, 1930-37.
Photograph by Wilford C. Wood PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH AT MARTIN'S COVE, WYOMING EN ROUTE FROM NAUVOO, ILLINOIS, TO SALT LAKE CITY, FOLLOWING THE PIONEER TRAIL, JULY 1946
