[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 863 | General Feature | Social Relations— Lesson 6— Hazards of Drugs | ]
[Social Relations— Lesson 6— Hazards of Drugs]

Medical science has dis- 

863 November 1970

 covered and refined many drugs which can be used to aid in the healing arts, but Satan, in his genius for twisting good things to his own use, has seized at this production of man to make it useful for his nefarious purposes. Many forms of drugs have lent themselves readily to Satan's use. In the search for excitement, new experiences, and ways of forgetting the realities of day-to-day living, some people in recent years have turned heavily to the use of drugs. Drugs which can make one sleep, pep him up, calm him down, and give him new and strange feelings about himself and the world are coming into more and more usage by more and more people. DRUG ABUSE Persons who know most about the drug problem give us information that is alarming. The director of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics in the United States, John E. Ingersoll, indicates a justified concern about the extent and intensity of drug abuse in the United States. He states that drug abuse "has exploded into a problem of frightening proportions. Our information, intelligence, statistics and arrest data show that drug abuse in this country is mounting at a startling rate." He gives examples revealing the extent of the problem in New York City where over 900 people (224 of whom were teen-agers— 24 under the age of 15) died from drug abuse in 1969. (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) A study done in the state of Utah by the Governor's ad- 864 visory committee on drug abuse disclosed that in 1969 17.05 percent of high school students indicated they had used marijuana, 11.60 percent had used amphetamines, and 8.78 percent had tried LSD. ("The Problem of Drug Abuse, Extracts from the Advisory Committee Report on Drug Abuse—Summations and Recommendations," Nov. 1969, p. 7.) John E. Ingersoll states that, "In virtually every major metropolitan area of the country, drug use and abuse has increased by leaps and bounds." (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) The extent of drug abuse requires that the Latter-day Saint woman have information and understanding about drugs and their effects in order to put her in a position to prevent drug abuse in the Latter-day Saint home. A first step in preparing oneself to combat drug usage is to have some knowledge of the characteristics of the most common drugs abused. The Food and Drug Administration in Washington, D. C., defines the term drugs as "substances used to diagnose, treat, or prevent illness; or substances (other than food) which modify body function," ("How Safe Are Our Drugs?" FDA's life Portection Series, p. 5.) According to the same source of information, drugs can be obtained from natural sources such as plants and animals (for example, hormones, antibiotics, narcotics, digitalis, etc.) or from artificial sources (antihistamines, aspirin, barbiturates, nasal drops, etc.) The person who abuses drugs is particularly interested in drugs which modify bodily function in a way that gives him new mental or physical sensations. It is obvious that any substance which is strong enough to change the functioning of the body systems is potentially dangerous to health and well-being and requires careful prescribing by a competent physician. Drug abusers make themselves vulnerable to all the hazards of drug use with few, if any, of the safeguards. The sensation derived from drug abuse is given high priority over health, safety, and even life when the drug abuser gets "hooked" or habituated. The American Social Health Association provides a reliable description of drugs most commonly used by drug abusers. The drugs can be designated as being in two categories: (1) illicit or prohibited drugs, the manufacture and distribution of which are prohibited except for approved research purposes; and (2) drugs legitimately used in the practice of medicine. The manufacture and distribution of the latter group of drugs is confined to ethical drug channels, and standards of drug usage are controlled by the Food and Drug Administration. Most countries have patterns of such control. Among the illicit drugs, the most common are hallucinogens, heroin, and marijuana, and among the second group of drugs are amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, codeine, methaphetemine, and morphine. Discussion Question What is the status of drug abuse and control in your community? Lesson Department IDENTIFICATION OF DRUGS For detection of drug abuse, as well as the need for general familiarity with drugs for educational purposes, it is useful for the Latter-day Saint mother to know some basic facts about each of the listed drugs. Each of the drugs has its nicknames, which will be identified in addition to other peculiar aspects such as how used and effects upon the user. The American Social Health Association provides the following information about specific drugs: LSD, nicknamed "acid," is usually taken in tablet, capsule, ampul (hypodermic) form or in saturated sugar cubes. It produces hallucinations, exhilarations, or depressions and may lead to serious mental changes with possible suicidal or homicidal tendencies. Its use can be detected since abusers undergo marked personality changes and speak of "seeing" smells or "hearing" colors. Behavior is very irrational. This drug can have very serious consequences for the user. Heroin, called "snow," "stuff," "H," and "junk," is a morphine derivative with a high possibility of addiction. It can be administered by any one of several methods but is usually taken by intravenous injection. The person who has taken heroin has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Use of heroin only once or twice produces real possibility of addiction, and when a person becomes addicted to this drug, possibility of cure is very remote. The person taking 

865 November 1970

 heroin must continually increase the dosage to obtain the same effect. Withdrawal symptoms from this drug are severe. Maryuana, nicknamed "pot," "sticks,'"reefers,"""weed,'' "grass," "Joints," "muggles," '"mooters," "Indian hay," "locoweed," "mu," "siggle-smoke," "griffo," "mohasky," and "Mary Jane," is derived from a plant commonly called Indian hemp. This drug is usually smoked in pipes or cigarettes. Hashish is a more concentrated form of the same plant which is often made into candy,. Sniffed in powder form, and mixed with honey for drinking or with butter to spread on bread. Use of marijuana gives the user a feeling of great perceptiveness and pleasure. There is possible erratic behavior, loss of memory, and distortion of time and _ spatial perceptions. Users may feel exhilarated or relaxed and have an exaggerated sense of ability, lack of restraint, plus distortions of time and space, which may result in his acting in ways dangerous to himself and others. Although there is no conclusive evidence that marijuana_ users. Characteristically move to more serious drug abuse, the pattern of many hardcore drug abusers has been to start with marijuana. Amphetamines, known also as "bennies," "copilots," "footballs," "hearts," and "pep pills," are stimulants used legally by physicians to help curb appetite or relieve minor depression. The drug is usually taken orally as a tablet or capsule, and the effects are abnormal cheerfulness and unusual increase in_ activity, jumpiness, and irritability. The drug can cause dangerous changes 866 in vital body functions like blood pressure and heart rhythm. The teen-ager may take the drug to increase "nerve" and under drug influence may behave dangerously. Barbiturates, often called "red birds," "yellow jackets," "blue heavens," or "goofballs," are sedatives usually taken orally in tablet or capsule form, although abusers may resort to intravenous injection. The user may be relaxed, good natured, and sociable but may also become sluggish and quarrelsome. There is often a general appearance of drunkenness but without the odor of alcohol. The most hazardous aspect of barbiturates is sedation. To the point of respiratory failure. With some sedation from a mild dosage of the drug, the individual may lose his attentiveness to the point that he unintentionally repeats the dosage to the peril of his life. This drug is particularly hazardous when taken with alcohol and is addictive with both physical and psychic dependency. Cocaine, called "the leaf," "snow, or "speedballs" when mixed with heroin, is another drug used by drug abusers primarily for the possible exhilarating effect. Repetitive doses lead to excessive excitation, convulsive movements, and muscular twitching. The abuser can be identified by dilated pupils, hyperactivity, and a tendency to feel people are against him. There is very strong psychic dependence on the drug. Methamphetamine, called "speed" or "crystal" by drug abusers, is a strong stimulant taken orally as a tablet or in an elixir injected intravenously. The abuser becomes extremely restless and irritable, and violence and paranoid reactions are possible. The drug is very dangerous because of its potential danger to others and possible death to the abuser. Morphine known also as "al" or "dreamer," and another opium derivative, codeine, nicknamed "schoolboy," are additional drugs used by persons seeking new and exciting experiences. 'These drugs are generally sedative, and the abuser has constricted pupils and is calm and _ inattentive. Both physical dependence and psychic dependence with severe withdrawalsymptoms are characteristic of morphine and to some degree of all opium derivatives. Another kind of drug abuse is glue sniffing, an activity mostly indulged in by teen-agers. Airplane glue and solvents such as benzine, carbon tetrachloride, and ethyl alcohol, are common for "sniffing." Theuser experiences euphoria, intoxication, dizziness, slurring of speech, and possible unconsciousness. Other evidences of glue sniffing are inflamed eyes, loss of appetite, and a constant feeling of sickness. Serious physical damage can occur to such vital body organs as the liver, kidneys, or the brain. REASONS FOR DRUG ABUSE Discussion Question Why does a person use drugs? One would ordinarily assume that knowledge of the negative and dangerous outcome of drug usage would discourage or eliminate the possibility of abuse of Lesson Department drugs. Lack of information or ignorance of the drug's impact undoubtedly are factors in drug use. Educational programs about the effects and dangers of drugs can be significant deterrents, but it is doubtful that even full understanding of the harmful effects of drugs will eliminate their use. In addition to being uninformed or ignorant of what the facts are, one can identify additional forces which influence the tendency for one to become involved in drug abuse. In addition to ignorance, explanations for drug abuse may be one or a combination of the following items: 1. Peer group pressure. Friends and associates have a significant impact, especially on teen-agers. If the peer group is experimenting with various drugs, the pressure is great to have each member of the group become involved. The average adolescent is highly vulnerable to peer pressure because this dimension of all his relationships is highly important, at times even taking preference over the family as a prime source of impact. 2. Social setting. A person who lives in a social situation where abuse of drugs is a common and frequent activity by both adults and peers is apt to accept such patterns as part of his own behavior. Social situations which produce unhappiness, personal frustration, economic depression, low job opportunities, etc., are apt to encourage drug usage as a means of escape from daily stark realities of misery. 3. New experiences and experimentation. A major characteristic 

867 November 1970

 of human beings is to search for new and different experiences, and drug abuse is certainly a way some persons secure new and varied experiences. Some people turn to drugs when they are bored with life or when they have not experienced the healthy and appropriate ways of "mind expanding" or being "turned on" by activities of education, recreation, or exciting experiences of ordinary living events such as observing and enjoying the beauties of nature or a good art museum. Sheer curiosity is a part of this dimension of why some persons resort to artificial methods of stimulation or influence on the body's normal functioning. 4. Meeting personality deficiencies, The individual who is inclined to doubt his abilities or capacity to relate healthily to other people may hope that an artificial stimulant or depressant may temporarily eliminate or relieve feelings of his self-consciousness in associating with people. The capacity of a potent drug to permit one to live in a dream or artificial world of sensations may be considered a solution to the social and personal pressures of an individual. 5. Emotional or mental disturbance. One's emotional or mental stability may be so precarious that he is not capable of rendering good judgments about what should be done about day-to-day living experiences. Most people behave in response to expected outcomes of success, growth, advancement, and happiness, but the emotionally confused person is apt to seek easement of pressure or avoidance of responsibility by any available means. Drug 868 abuse can become an extension of a person's already confused thinking and feeling patterns. 6. Disturbed family relationships. Many young people move to drug abuse at the point where family relationship becomes unbearable. Personal happiness is' closely associated with good family relationships, and any disruption in this area can make one feel despair and discouragement that may result in a search for artificial means of happiness. Anger reactions and other bad feelings between parent and child can easily influence a child to seek ways of rebelling against the parent. Drug abusers are often in rebellion against the parent or authority in general. CONCLUSION No reason or explanation for a person's becoming involved in drug use can justify the act, but such may serve as a guideline for where the problem can be most expeditiously attacked. This is particularly true in the home where a child has contemplated use of drugs or is actually using them. The parent can review the possible reasons for such occurrence and then attack the problem in a way most apt to produce favorable results. I Discussion Question If there is a child in your family using drugs, what should be done? When there are indications that a family member is contemplating drug use or is using drugs, as evidenced by personal reactions described under the discussion of the different drugs, the parent can immediately discuss. The possibilities with the child and initiate efforts to resolve the problem. Medical treatment should be sought immediately. The exact procedure should be focused on the basis of what factors are most significantly contributing to the problem. Children need education about drugs which can be provided personally by the parent, school, family physician, or other reliable persons. Should it appear that other factors are influencing the pattern toward drug usage, these should be discussed with the Church leaders who can assist in evolving a suitable plan for action or prevention. Professional peer Lesson Department help by medical personnel, social workers, nurses, or psychologists may be necessary to alleviate the problem. Any reluctance to face the fact that the problem exists, or any embarrassment about seeking help, should be placed secondary to the need for effective management of the problem. Drugs can be handy tools for Satan's use and all our good judgment, knowledge, and sound action are needed to minimize the chances of Satan's impact on ourselves and our families. The Latter-day Saint woman can be better equipped to protect her family from this problem by understanding and living the gospel of Jesus Christ. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—"'And to Every Man Is Given a Gift" (D&C 46:11) Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage creativity among the women of the Church by examining some of the creative achievements of gifted Church members. ART "Temple Site'' by Dale T. Fletcher, American, collection of the artist. Reproduction of painting, The Relief Society Magazine June 1970, page 447. COMMENTARY Each one comes to his own particular gift in his own way. Sometimes through early recognition and subsequent training one may develop a particular gift to a point of excellence.