[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 820 | Special Feature | The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1970 Mayola | R. Miltenberger]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL @ The 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference held September 30 and October 1 in Salt Lake City, now belongs to history, but will long be remembered as one of particular significance. Relief Society sisters from Johannesburg to Helsinki, and from Tokyo to London, from Sydney to Pago Pago, as well as from towns and cities nearer by, gathered to hear words of inspiration and admonition, to learn together, and to rejoice together during the conference. The prophet, President Joseph Fielding Smith, former advisor to Relief Society, addressed the sisters, gave them counsel and his blessing. His devoted companion, Sister Jessie Evans Smith, was also present and offered the invocation in the General Session. Sister Joan Freda Lee, wife of President Harold B. Lee of the First Presidency, offered the benediction in the same session. Highlighting the Conference were addresses by several General Authorities of the Church. Elder Marion D. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society, reviewed changes which have occurred in 820 Mayola R. Miltenberger, recent decades in patterns of family life. He urged the sisters to "build the home, strengthen the family by teaching the gospel in the home." He appealed to mothers to assume more parental responsibility and to Latter-day Saint women to recognize the divine nature of the institution of the family. A stirring address was delivered by Elder LeGrand Richards on the Lamanite program; Elder Thomas S. Monson, advisor to Relief Society, spoke with sincerity and conviction, decrying the evil influences rampant today against woman's fulfilling her divine destiny. Elder Boyd K. Packer gave vital instruction as to how women might support and further the Family Home Evening. President Belle S. Spafford's Report and Official Instructions to the Society membership was of special importance as it dealt with matters of far-reaching consequence relating to changes in policy for Relief Society. Members of the Relief Society presidency addressed the large Conference sessions and gave encouragement and suggestions to the sisters for achieving happiness General-Secretary Treasurer in life. They emphasized obedience to the principles of the gospel so that the Holy Spirit might be a constant companion and guide. Months of preparation preceded the long trip to Salt Lake City of approximately 150 Singing Mothers from Chicago Stake, who rendered music for the Officers Meeting as well as for the Presidencies Department. A combined chorus of approximately 400 Singing Mothers, under the baton of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board, sang for the General Session of Relief Society Conference and also for the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church. Both choral groups were accompanied by distinguished Tabernacle organists, Dr. Alexander Schreiner, Dr. Robert Cundick, and Elder Roy M. Darley. On Thursday morning, October lst, the Conference visitors were directed into eight different departmental meetings held simultaneously throughout' the City, where the detailed "how to" part of the Conference was given. Newvitality was given to homemaking with the presentation during the Conference of a program focused upon _ activities GENERAL CONFERENCE 1970 which have value for individual members and use within their own homes. This year's homemaking display abosrbed the interest of all who viewed the wide range of ideas presented by means of demonstration and_ exhibit. Among practical suggestions were those dealing with new sewing techniques, knitting, different uses of quilting, macramé, and picture framing. The new Relief Society educational programs for the comIng year were presented, with women learning everything from how to communicate better with family members, to how to read and sing together as family members. The world sisterhood, into which the women of the Church have been unified, was apparent. Even though not all comprehended the meaning of the polite bows and the "Ohyo gozaimous" of the Japanese sisters, or the "Como esta usted" of those from Mexico—yet their gestures were translated into a feeling of understanding and love, which permeated the 1970 Conference.