[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 857 | General Feature | Social Relations— Lesson 5— Morality | Makes Sense]
SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand and put into practice ways of developing moral strength in children. INTRODUCTION If a person examines his goals and objectives in life and the best method for obtaining them, morality is the only way that really makes sense. Life's goals usually include an education, marriage, children, a happy home, living in tune with God's purposes, and self-perfection. The only way to obtain these goals is by being ethical, virtuous, righteous, and by doing what is I good and right, or, in other words, by being moral. If morality is necessary for the attainment of these desirable goals, why then is the problem of immorality increasing? What are the forces operating in the world today which make immorality appear attractive? Satan's in- 

857 November 1970

 fluence on our perception of right and wrong, and the many influences in today's society that tend to distort perception and create situations that are tempting have already been discussed in a previous lesson. Too much money, too little money, too much free time, too little work, too many activities for parents and children outside of the home, keen competition in the business and professional world, early dating, early irresponsible cardriving, immodesty in dress, and going steady are some of the influences that can be found in present-day society. Discussion Question What are some of the other demoralizing influences found in society today? Though these forces may seem to be worse today than they have ever been before, a talk with a mother or a grandmother soon reveals that every generation has had its own set of demoralizing influences. It would seem that, in the final analysis, the morality of a generation is determined by the strength of the individuals of whom it is composed. The real key to morality lies in building the moral strength of each individual. Wives, mothers, and teachers have the great responsibility to help build the moral strength and self-discipline of all those whose lives they touch. This lesson will, therefore, devote attention to two very important factors in an _ individual's life that influence the growth and development of moral strength. These factors are (1) his basic needs, and (2) his self-esteem. 858 THE RELATIONSHIP OF BASIC NEEDS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND MORALITY Whether an individual is able to live morally and ethically after having been taught what is right and wrong depends, to a great extent, on whether his basic needs are being fulfilled and whether he has self-esteem. To an individual who has an unfulfilled need for love and security, immorality may appear attractive because he thinks it offers the promise of satisfaction of that need. To the person who has not yet been able to acquire a secure feeling about his own worth as an individual, immorality may look attractive because it offers him an opportunity to experiment and, perhaps, establish his own identity. On the other hand, the person who has high self-esteem, who has selfconfidence and a high regard for himself, usually can tolerate an unfulfilled need temporarily or suppress it in a healthy fashion until he can find a moral way in which to satisfy it. It is not difficult to see why the "hippie philosophy" has appeal for some. To the child who has_ been starved for parental love and concern, immorality may appear to offer love and concern. To the child who has been raised in a very rigid atmosphere with too much parental control, it seems to offer the opportunity for freedom of thought and action anda chance for discovery of "self." He will see in it only what he wants to see and will not be able to see its many self-defeating aspects. It is, therefore, extremely important to understand children's needs and how to help them develop a feeling of selfworth. A CHILD'S BASIC NEEDS Discussion Question What are some of a child's basic needs? A child is unable to satisfy his own needs to feel loved, to feel secure, and to feel worthwhile to himself and others. He must depend on adults to help him satisfy them. He must depend on adults completely at first, and, as he grows, he still needs adult concern and guidance in helping him learn acceptable ways of satisfying his needs. In each stage of a _ child's development certain needs and certain forms of behavior predominate. Information about the growth and development of children is available to every parent on the radio and on television, in the newspapers, in the library, and in special books which have been written on this subject. Parents can greatly profit from these materials by using wisdom and discrimination in applying and assimilating those ideas which are in harmony with the gospel and its principles. THE INFANT A baby is completely dependent on his parents. His first adjustment to life is probably the most agonizing one of all. Imagine the desperation of a baby who is hungry, cold, or lonely and is not immediately comforted. An infant must be cared for by someone who can hold, cherish, and protect him as well as feed him and keep him dry. He has emotional needs that Lesson Department are as important, perhaps more important, than his biological needs. This is one of the reasons being cared for by a mother is more desirable than being put in a nursery school. THE PRESCHOOL CHILD The preschool period, when a child is learning to control some of his bodily functions, learning to relate to others, and learning to postpone his need satisfaction, is a frustrating one for both child and parent. The child has many anxieties at this time that may be expressed in various forms of behavior — destructiveness, aggression toward other children, temper tantrums, eye blinking, stuttering, and whining, for example. The source of these anxleties is often related to basic needs. Much can be done by a parent to help a child satisfy his needs so that these anxieties do not develop. For example, a child should never be threatened with abandonment. If he dawdles it is better to lead him by the hand than to threaten that you will leave him. If circumstances in life force separation from a child for an operation, vacation, or social obligation, the separation should be preceded by preparation. A mother should never steal quietly out of the home, leaving a relative or a sitter to explain her absence. Children take the stress of separation much more easily if they have been prepared for the experience beforehand. Once an undesirable form of behavior appears, it should be viewed as a device to relieve tension rather than a 'vice which 

859 November 1970

 must be cured. A parent's calmness, relaxation, acceptance, and love will usually result in its disappearance. On the other hand, if the child's attention is drawn to his misbehavior by constant nagging, it will usually be accentuated. It is helpful to know what forms of behavior one would ordinarily see in a child in the preschool period. If a parent is well informed, he will be more calm, accepting, and loving to his child. Being able to distinguish the normal from the abnormal gives the parent some practical help in dealing with his children. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AGE During the elementary school period a child usually reacts to frustrated needs either by acting out his anxieties or by withdrawing into himself. He may become a behavior problem at school or church. He may be too competitive, may lie, may steal, may not take responsibility, or may withdraw and refuse to join any group that would require him to form a meaningful relationship with others. What the child needs at this time is a parent who will express love and concern for him. He needs parents who will stop nagging him about his bad behavior and listen to what he has to say about his feelings. He needs parents who are willing to listen to his bad thoughts as well as his good ones without overreacting. Very often a child can get rid of bad feelings merely by expressing them to someone. If a child knows inwardly that he is really free to express his feelings to his parents without 860 danger of losing their love and approval, he will seek audience with them when he is anxious about his bad thoughts and feelings. If the parent helps him explore these feelings in a calm, rational manner, the parent has an opportunity to guide the child. If a child is not made to feel unloved when he says what he thinks, there is a better chance that he will confine himself to saying what he thinks, rather than acting it out. THE ADOLESCENT When a child becomes an adolescent, he has to deal with the emotional changes which accompany sexual maturation and with the new role of independence he is expected to assume. This transitional stage between childhood and _ adulthood is a most difficult period for both parent and child. The child still needs much love and acceptance, but it is sometimes very hard for the parents to supply it during these years. Characteristic of this period are wide mood swings between childishness and maturity. It is not uncommon to see a_ fifteen-year-old have a temper tantrum over something very insignificant one minute, and then sit down the next and carry on a very mature and intelligent discussion with an adult on some complicated aspect of life. A parent's tolerance level must be expanded. He must be prepared to cope with frequent and drastic changes in mood, be able to listen to things he doesn't want to hear, be able to tolerate complaining, lack of appreciation, and the faddish dress. If a parent can be tolerant during this period, the lines of communication may be kept open between parent and child. This is very important if the parent expects to be able to influence the child's behavior. If a child brings up some shocking subject for discussion, the parents and the teachers must learn not to overreact with horror, dismay, or with a heavy-handed, moralistic attitude, because such reactions will usually arouse antagonism in the child. It is better to react in this way: "Listen, let's explore this thing together, let's find out what is good and what is bad about it, what is false and what is true. I need to know as much as 'you do." Parents and teachers should have information about the things in the adolescent's life that will inevitably be discussed, such as sex, drugs, and dating. If adults know more about these subjects than do the children, if the adult's judgment is good, and they are not just expressing an emotional opinion, they will be able to gain the respect of the youth. Also by being informed, adults' judgment is good, and answers to questions that seemingly are unanswerable. Discussion is often the best method for finding answers. Though he may object, the adolescent has need for some parental limitation of his freedom. Limitation may help reinforce a child's decision that he does not yet have the inner strength to maintain by himself. He does not, however, need the same degree of parental authority he needed during childhood. The adolescent literally must grow up Lesson Department during the teen years and can do so only if given responsibility in increasing doses. If the home is filled with pleasantness, kindness, cooperation, and industry, the child is likely to find the world a friendly place and to find his way in it. But if the home is fraught with conflict, punishment, and_inconsistency, he is likely to look upon the world as a distrustful and hostile place and to fight against it rather than cooperate with it. Class Discussion Make a list of things that interest adolescents in your country and see how well informed the sisters are on these subjects. THE DEVELOPMENT OF SELF-ESTEEM It is interesting to learn that sometimes preceding his middle childhood a child arrives at a general feeling of his worth. If the child views himself as capable, significant, and worthy, he is said to be high in self-esteem. If the child regards himself as being unworthy or bad or incompetent, he is said to be low in self-esteem. This image he has of himself usually remains stable and enduring over a period of years, and, once established, it will be one of the most important contributing factors to his behavior, good or bad, from then on. An individual who is high in self-esteem trusts his own judgment, has courage to act on his convictions, is influenced less by social groups and social pressures, takes responsibility, is able to tolerate his own mistakes and 

861 November 1970

 not let them ruin his life. He finds that living a moral life is much more sensible than living an immoral one. Discussion Question How can we as parents and teachers build the self-esteem of children? A child whois raised with limits finds it easy to judge for himself whether he has succeeded in attaining a goal, or whether he has failed, and if he has failed, by how much, and what he must do to achieve success. He can learn to appraise and anticipate the consequences of his own actions. A child raised under these circumstances does not then need to rely on his social group or other people to help him make decisions. He is better prepared to "stand on his own two feet" and will have the confidence to do so because he trusts his own judgment. Parents who have definite, righteous values, who have a clear idea of what they regard as acceptable behavior, and who are able to present and enforce these beliefs with conviction are more likely to rear children who value themselves highly. A parent who can do this usually does not find it necessary to deal with his children harshly, and such a parent is usually viewed with greater affection and respect by the children. It has been found that a child is more likely to go along with parents' desires if the parents build the child's self-esteem by indicating approval of him as much as possible rather than showing disapproval. The way a 862 parent reacts to a child's actions either confirms or denies a child's evaluation of himself. For this reason, it is important in the first few years of life for parents to find ways of guiding their children into situations in which they will be successful, and ways of helping them avoid experlences that will cause them to feel shame or self-doubt. Class Discussion The Church gives the child many opportunities to develop his self-esteem. How can a mother make sure these experiences have a positive, rather than a negative effect on self-esteem? List some things that are commonly said to children that could give a child a bad opinion of himself. In what ways could a parent help a child think more highly of himself? Other interesting facts about self-esteem have come to light as a result of studies performed by various sociologists. A study on self-esteem conducted with 500 high school students has clarified many of the social conditions that relate to self-esteem. It was found that social class is only weakly related to self-esteem. Adolescents who have a close relationship with their fathers are much higher in self-esteem than those who have a more distant and impersonal relationship with him. The children of Jews were found to have much higher self-esteem than those of Protestants and Catholics. This seemed to be largely a result of the great amount of attention Jewish children receive from their parents. Other studies indicate that selfesteem is not related to height and physical attractiveness, and it is only rather weakly related tosocial status and academic performance. It was also found that the families of children with high self-esteem have well-defined limits of behavior and clear statements of rights and privileges. These same families also show a greater tolerance for individual expression and less drastic forms of punishment. Results of this same study also showed that parents of children with high self-esteem are significantly less permissive than are the parents of children with less self-esteem. Since this finding is counter to what many people in our modern society believe, this particular finding was studied in depth. The conclusion reached was that firm parents who are_ establishing rules -and enforcing them are providing definitions for their children and indicating how to interpret the world so as to maximize success and minimize anxiety. Lesson Department SUMMARY To help children develop moral strength in the home, parents must teach them in the ways of the Lord. Parents and teachers must reinforce these teachings by encouraging regular, meaningful attendance and activity at Church. For moral teachings to be accepted and translated into moral behavior, children need an abundant supply of love, recognition, acceptance, security, support, and limitations. Interest must be shown in every aspect of children's lives. Adults should look for the best in children, praise them, and show respect for them. Parents should build a relationship with them that will form a protective barrier between the children and the demoralizing forces in society; then morality rather than immorality will make the most sense. SOCIAL RELATIONS. Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 6—Hazards of Drugs Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be informed about drugs so she can be better equipped to protect her family. INTRODUCTION Satan has always found ways to exert his influence on the minds and souls of men, and he is not without creative genius in establishing new and varied ways of influencing them. One of his prominent and effective tools currently in vogue is drug abuse. Drugs have been used for centuries, but it is only in relatively recent years that drugs have been seriously abused by so many people. Medical science has dis- 

863 November 1970

 covered and refined many drugs which can be used to aid in the healing arts, but Satan, in his genius for twisting good things to his own use, has seized at this production of man to make it useful for his nefarious purposes. Many forms of drugs have lent themselves readily to Satan's use. In the search for excitement, new experiences, and ways of forgetting the realities of day-to-day living, some people in recent years have turned heavily to the use of drugs. Drugs which can make one sleep, pep him up, calm him down, and give him new and strange feelings about himself and the world are coming into more and more usage by more and more people. DRUG ABUSE Persons who know most about the drug problem give us information that is alarming. The director of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics in the United States, John E. Ingersoll, indicates a justified concern about the extent and intensity of drug abuse in the United States. He states that drug abuse "has exploded into a problem of frightening proportions. Our information, intelligence, statistics and arrest data show that drug abuse in this country is mounting at a startling rate." He gives examples revealing the extent of the problem in New York City where over 900 people (224 of whom were teen-agers— 24 under the age of 15) died from drug abuse in 1969. (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) A study done in the state of Utah by the Governor's ad- 864 visory committee on drug abuse disclosed that in 1969 17.05 percent of high school students indicated they had used marijuana, 11.60 percent had used amphetamines, and 8.78 percent had tried LSD. ("The Problem of Drug Abuse, Extracts from the Advisory Committee Report on Drug Abuse—Summations and Recommendations," Nov. 1969, p. 7.) John E. Ingersoll states that, "In virtually every major metropolitan area of the country, drug use and abuse has increased by leaps and bounds." (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) The extent of drug abuse requires that the Latter-day Saint woman have information and understanding about drugs and their effects in order to put her in a position to prevent drug abuse in the Latter-day Saint home. A first step in preparing oneself to combat drug usage is to have some knowledge of the characteristics of the most common drugs abused. The Food and Drug Administration in Washington, D. C., defines the term drugs as "substances used to diagnose, treat, or prevent illness; or substances (other than food) which modify body function," ("How Safe Are Our Drugs?" FDA's life Portection Series, p. 5.) According to the same source of information, drugs can be obtained from natural sources such as plants and animals (for example, hormones, antibiotics, narcotics, digitalis, etc.) or from artificial sources (antihistamines, aspirin, barbiturates, nasal drops, etc.) The person who abuses drugs is particularly interested in drugs which modify bodily function in a way that gives him new mental or physical sensations. It is obvious that any substance which is strong enough to change the functioning of the body systems is potentially dangerous to health and well-being and requires careful prescribing by a competent physician. Drug abusers make themselves vulnerable to all the hazards of drug use with few, if any, of the safeguards. The sensation derived from drug abuse is given high priority over health, safety, and even life when the drug abuser gets "hooked" or habituated. The American Social Health Association provides a reliable description of drugs most commonly used by drug abusers. The drugs can be designated as being in two categories: (1) illicit or prohibited drugs, the manufacture and distribution of which are prohibited except for approved research purposes; and (2) drugs legitimately used in the practice of medicine. The manufacture and distribution of the latter group of drugs is confined to ethical drug channels, and standards of drug usage are controlled by the Food and Drug Administration. Most countries have patterns of such control. Among the illicit drugs, the most common are hallucinogens, heroin, and marijuana, and among the second group of drugs are amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, codeine, methaphetemine, and morphine. Discussion Question What is the status of drug abuse and control in your community? Lesson Department IDENTIFICATION OF DRUGS For detection of drug abuse, as well as the need for general familiarity with drugs for educational purposes, it is useful for the Latter-day Saint mother to know some basic facts about each of the listed drugs. Each of the drugs has its nicknames, which will be identified in addition to other peculiar aspects such as how used and effects upon the user. The American Social Health Association provides the following information about specific drugs: LSD, nicknamed "acid," is usually taken in tablet, capsule, ampul (hypodermic) form or in saturated sugar cubes. It produces hallucinations, exhilarations, or depressions and may lead to serious mental changes with possible suicidal or homicidal tendencies. Its use can be detected since abusers undergo marked personality changes and speak of "seeing" smells or "hearing" colors. Behavior is very irrational. This drug can have very serious consequences for the user. Heroin, called "snow," "stuff," "H," and "junk," is a morphine derivative with a high possibility of addiction. It can be administered by any one of several methods but is usually taken by intravenous injection. The person who has taken heroin has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Use of heroin only once or twice produces real possibility of addiction, and when a person becomes addicted to this drug, possibility of cure is very remote. The person taking 

865 November 1970