[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 808 | Special Feature | "No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light" | Marianne C. Sharp]
No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light been reaffirmed. (Relief Society Magazine, January 1967, p. 6.) This present-day wicked teaching, seeks to destroy the purposes of the Lord as mentioned by President Lee, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) A third present-day fallacy which seeks to destroy the eternal family unit is the deceptive teaching that the training a woman receives prior to her motherhood is too valuable to be wasted upon her home and children, but that she must get out into the marketplace and hand over the training of her children to others, perhaps to professionals in child-rearing. This denies obedience to the words of the Lord enjoined upon parents that they are responsible for the training of their own children. Thus we see the forces of Satan today seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saint woman's knowledge of her place in the Plan of Salvation; first, through belittling her role as homemaker; second, through limiting the number of children she should bring into the world; and third, through seeking to deny her the right and privilege to rear her own children, day by day and hour by hour. Under these _ circumstances what shall we as Latter-day Saint women do? Follow the leadership of the Church, obey the words of the prophets, and live so that the Holy Spirit may be our constant companion and guide. We believe in continuous revelation and we must accept it as. The Lord gives it to us through his prophets, blessed beyond measure 

809 November 1970

 to live in these momentous days. Satan seeks to muddy the concepts of right and wrong, to deceive the unwary. No one, as President Heber C. Kimball said, can endure on the. Borrowed light of another. Each one's testimust light her own path and direct her own actions. It is a time to remember "obedience is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." One hundred seven years ago the Temple and the Tabernacle needed to be built. Today what needs to be done? Who can see how each directive of the Brethren fits into the events of these the last days? We cannot, but as Relief Society members, we can listen and obey the words of the prophets and live so that the Holy Spirit will guide us to our exaltation. & Enid F. Woolley Lonnavale, Heron, Tasmania, Australia Your tiny feet were in such a hurry it was almost inevitable that you should stumble and fall. I lifted you up and, with loving care, administered the bathing and medication which your grazed knees required—not forgetting the comforting hug and kiss so important to the mending of hurt knees and tingling pride. In a moment or two you were off again; your pace no less swift because of the recent mishap. I knew you would fall again; but I cannot keep you safely held in my arms because of this knowledge. Rather, you must be free to run, yes, free to fall, or you will never gain the ability to go swiftly and safely on your way. I would not keep you from hurts, my little one, for in the march of life the one who arrives is he who knows how, having fallen, to scramble undaunted to his feet again; it is he who is ready to go on with the march. You must fall to stand again, wiser, stronger, and readier, and I must let you fall, must let you struggle unaided to regain your stance. This I will do; but pray the dear Lord that I may be there to help you if you cannot rise alone. Surely these things are part of a mother's sacred trust. % In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in November or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue.