[Vol57 | November 1970 | Page 850 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Messages— Message 5— Respect for and Understanding of Authority | ]
oa VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 5 Respect for and Understanding of Authority Northern Hemisphere: First Week, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To realize that to accept, understand, and respect authority is a mark of maturity. "Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." (Matt. 17:5.) How many of us are pleased with him? How many of us hear him? At Jesus' baptism in the winding Jordan River and at his transfiguration on the high mountain, our Father in heaven attested to the authority of 850 his Son. By him we are to be led; to him we are to look for guidance and counsel. Do we? Does the world? Are we not looking at a rejection of him and his authority by many on the earth? We live in a strange time of violence, riots, disregard and disrespect for authority. Many young people brought up in a climate of freedom, but without the necessary accompanying sense of responsibility, live irresponsible lives, threatening, at times, freedoms that have been painfully won. Many of us find it difficult to accept authority just because authority exists. The little child who in anger kicks his mother or father is expressing an idea toward and about authority that many of our generation exhibit in more sophisticated or more violent ways. If the Lord's work is to be done, there must be goals, planning, and order. There must be those who are entrusted with and carry out these responsibilities. Of them is expected the highest caliber of leadership. From those who have not been given the supervision of these tasks, there is expected the utmost understanding, obedience, and cooperative effort. Those who hold authority need constantly to reread the advice given in the scriptures as to how authority is to be exercised, for, by their use of authority, they help or hinder others. Authority is to be used with persuasion, not dictation or demand, with long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned. Would children or adults reject authority if this was their image of it—kindness and pure knowledge so that one understood with a good spirit? Sometimes man, being what he is needs reproof, but then afterward he who has administered it is to show forth an increase of love to the reproved. How Lesson Department difficult is this to do? How might one do this? If authority fairly, justly, mercifully, lovingly, and _ righteously is exercised, does this not encourage respect for it and cooperation with it? The Lord demands much of one who holds authority, be he a parent or some other governing person. Because the authority toward our youth may have been less than it should have been, and because of mistaken and immature ideas of what freedom really is, many of us may have partly hostile ideas about, and response to, authority. Part of our growth toward maturity is to shed our misconceptions of what authority is and does. We must come to understand not only with our minds, but accept with our hearts the need for order, obedience, and the understanding of a workable _ relationship with authority. In the Church we know that God is the most mature person in the universe. He has set up an organization complete with his authority. He asks us to work cooperatively within it, to foster his plans, and to accept his authority as manifested righteously in his chosen servants. He knows that if we desire to do his will, pray, study, and work with singleness of heart for his cause, that we will understand his purposes and accept his methods for accomplishing them. We demonstrate our maturity by working for, not against him. SS 

851 November 1970