A Pioneer Christmas | Log Cabin on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah Log cabin homes in pioneer times, and cabins in the woods and wilderness in more modern days, have been lighted with candles and lanterns, and with flames from the fireplace. Christmas trees have been decorated with popped corn and paper chains and small calico dolls—with red berries from the mountains, and with brightly colored parcels, if any could be found. Sometimes, at Christmas, a real live lamb shared the cabin warmth and reminded the children of the shepherds mentioned in the Bible, and the pictures that artists have painted of small lambs which may have been brought to the manger in Bethlehem.

Christmas candy was made of molasses or honey, perhaps mixed with butter and twisted into shapes of shining splendor. Pine nuts, carefully shelled, were passed around, and sometimes black walnuts were available. There are those still living who remember the wonderful "raised" doughnuts that were unequaled among desserts, and are still considered a great delicacy.

Some pioneer cooks made pies using elderberries and service berries for filling—the berries had been picked on the autumn hillsides and dried for winter use. Eventually, there were dried apples and dried peaches. Roast beef, roast pork, chicken stuffed with dressing sometimes made the Christmas merry, and some of the English saints served roast goose, and the Danish mothers made many kinds of sweet rolls, rich with dried berries or dried fruit—in the days before raisins and currants were available.

Scones were common in pioneer households, and precious small amounts of sugar were saved for many months for a "sprinkling" on the scones. A log cabin was large enough for the celebration of Christmas—for in the cabin were family and food—warmth and love—and the father with opened Bible—and the mother singing carols treasured from a far-off land—and children rejoicing in their new home. Gladys Hibbard Eccles A Christmas family tree graces the home of Gladys Hibbard Eccles of San Bernardino, California, each year. A white tree (flocked or sprayed) is decorated sparingly with colored balls, and name tags for each member of the family are made from red plastic or any desired stiff substance. A tiny figure may be added to the tags for decorative purposes. As new names are found through genealogical research, they are added to the tree, and as new babies are born into the family they become part of the tree, and as they grow older and the family tree returns each year, the children realize that they are, in truth, bright beloved branches on an everlasting family tree.

Color photograph by the author

A Christmas Carol - = a
From Laramie Ward Cheyenne Stake, Wyoming
Evelyn B. Willey,