Christmas Heritage In Rialto Stake (California: Ov" e~ Elaine McKee President, Rialto Stake Relief Society "Froliche Weihnachten" was the theme of the Christmas bazaar held in the Rialto Stake. Pictured, left to right in front of the entrance to the bazaar are: Roxie Hubbs, chairman; Elaine McKee, President, Rialto Stake Relief Society; Odessa Clawson, President, Rialto Ward Relief Society; Theone Mosher, Homemaking Counselor, Rialto Ward Relief Society.

Among the many lovely displays was a Christmas decoration table covered with a traditional red cloth highlighted by green decorations. On the table were many lovely decorative items which would enhance the home at this festive time of year. On the wall behind the table was a lovely "Egg Carton Tree," simple enough to be made by the children. It is constructed of six egg cartons cut proportionately to achieve the tree effect. These are backed on cardboard, and the end of an egg carton forms the base of the tree. The tree is sprayed gold and decorated. A tiny nativity scene is placed at the base.

A six-foot Christmas tree was decorated in the traditional simplicity of the past, with small toys, artificial gingerbread men, and gingerbread houses, candy, beads, and popcorn. Santa Claus dispensed gifts from the tree for the little ones. The refreshments were on a circular table with a candy covered gingerbread house as a centerpiece. The table was covered with a full length skirt of white felt, edged with gold fringe and decorated with felt cutouts. The cutouts were very clever reproductions of Santa and his reindeer, Mr. And Mrs. Snowman, and Christmas trees, decorated with rhinestones and sequins.
 
On the Art - On the Art of "Look Books" for the Little Ones
723 ZR 7 Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts

It has often been repeated that a gift of the hand is truly a gift of the heart. When listing our most treasured gifts over the years, a gift made by someone dear usually rests atop the inventory. Sister Alice M. Graves, Mesa, Arizona, makes for each one of her twenty-two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren a gift which they hold most precious. The "Look Books," as she has aptly named them, are constructed of durable poster paper, with covers of a bright color. She puts the book together with binder rings, using reinforcements on all holes. She then paints the reinforcements on the covers to match.

The books for the smaller youngsters consist entirely of pictures which come from greeting cards and discarded books. Sister Graves saves her own greeting cards,