HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education
Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have
Celestia J. Taylor
Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: To show the importance of taking pride in our possessions—particularly those pertaining to the home—and the value of using them to the best advantage.

Pride, like many other human characteristics, has two faces. The one looks with appreciation upon that which is rightfully his and brings in return the blessings of contentment and peace. The other looks with envy toward the acquisitions of others, seeking only the self-gratification of possession for its own sake, and reaps dissatisfaction and discontent. Too often our young people grow up with the idea that the world is theirs for the taking—that hard work and the putting forth of energy and effort in obtaining the things they desire belong to a different age, and one which touches them not even remotely. As a consequence, they approach marriage wanting and expecting all of the comforts and conveniences of living which their parents have spent a lifetime in accumulating.

Our responsibility to our children, as well as to ourselves, is to show how, by taking pride in justly acquiring and taking care of our possessions and by making the most of what we have, we can find deserved and lasting contentment. These results do not come from looking with envy toward the possessions of others. Basic within each one of us is the need to have pride in the things which belong to us. It follows that we should be concerned with taking care of what we have so that others may recognize these virtues and learn how to utilize them in their own lives.

We should evaluate our particular needs and set realistic goals for attaining them. (Keeping within our budget.) We should plan well in advance the purchases we will make, their approximate cost, and their order of importance to the overall plan. We should buy only those things which will contribute to the comfort and beauty of our home. We should avoid impulse buying or the purchase of so-called bargains which we have not planned for. We should be willing to postpone the buying of things we would like but cannot afford. We should, whenever possible, choose furniture that will serve our present needs and still serve to good purpose as our home expands. We should invest what money we spend in things of lasting and superior quality, except where budget-stretching substitutes are immediate and temporary necessities. (Even these, wisely chosen, can add to the attractiveness and personality of the home.)

Many things have been discarded which could, with the application of a little work and imagination, have been made into valuable and attractive additions to our homes. Chairs and sofas can be rejuvenated with attractive slip covers. Dressing tables and stools can be "glamorized" and individualized by draping or skirting with harmonizing fabrics. A colorful spread and smart pillows can give an outmoded bed an attractive modern appearance. Painting, antiquing, enameling, lacquering, and other methods of refinishing can restore life and beauty to chests, tables, chairs, and other furnishings. The application of fabrics, leathers, and decals to pieces of furniture can rejuvenate them into gay and exciting pieces. Goldleafing is a popular new innovation which can be used for reconditioning furniture and accessories.

It is just as important that we take care of our cherished possessions as it is that we acquire them in the first place. We should know that good care is as important to the beauty and complexion of our homes as good grooming is to our physical bodies—and that it is equally as uplifting to our morale. Furniture and accessories should be kept free from dust and finger marks as well as treated with respect in moving and handling. Carpeting and rugs should be vacuumed regularly and spot-cleaned whenever necessary. Valuable art objects or treasured heirlooms—petit-point pieces, delicate ceramics, valuable books, and other prized possessions—should be placed where they are protected from rough handling or careless treatment. Glassware, china, linens, and silver should be kept clean and sparkling and free from tarnish and stain. Children should be taught to take good care of their own possessions and to keep them in their proper places.

People in countries throughout the world have for centuries been cherishing and preserving treasured heirlooms and works of art. They have taken pride in developing and encouraging the arts and handicrafts of their respective countries. We, with them, have learned that to take pride in the things we cherish is to take care of them. There can be little satisfaction in having beautiful things if they do not add beauty to our homes and enjoyment and pleasure to our lives. If we would teach our children to value and appreciate their possessions and take pride in creating and maintaining beauty in their lives, we must exemplify these qualities in our own.