IN WASHINGTON.
M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
"All quiet along the Potomac to-night."
	Yes, all is quiet, so far as the loud-tongued
voice of war is concerned, but the clarion notes
of Freedom's Goddess are heard on every hand;
not only are they ringing in the Capitol of 
America, but through the length and breadth of 
every nation; echoed, and re-echoed by all 
tongues, and all peoples.
	During the past week, many of God's noblest
sons and daughters have united heart and voice 
in an appeal for equal rights, not only for woman
but for humanity.  No narrow-minded distinctions
of creed or color, found a place upon their plat-
form.  In the assembly hall, in the hotels, on the 
streets, in all public places, were the delegates
and friends of this great movement fraternally
and heartily welcomed.  At the executive man-
sion all were kindly and courteously welcomed.
	Mrs. Harrison received the delegates by
special invitation, and Miss Willard gracefully 
presented each one by name.  The mistress of
the White House, attended by some of the ladies
of her family, received each one with a kindly
word, a genial smile, and a gentle hand.  President 
Harrison was equally gracious; though the im-
mense numbers which attended his receptions 
could not fail to have wearied him; still, that
cheerful, benignant face, showed no sign, and 
each one to whom he gave his hand received from
him a welcoming word and a pleasant smile.  The
 inhabitants of this beautiful city are hospitable
and courteous.  I, as no doubt did many others, 
received attentions, invitations and kindly
courteous greetings that placed me at once at
home, and I could hardly realize that this was my
first visit to the Capital of America.
	To describe Washington and its environs, in
the space I can occupy in the EXPONENT, would
be impossible; suffice it then to say, that the site
on which it stands has been well chosen, for it is
a splendid one.
	Its public buildings are massive and imposing,
if we except the White House, which is too small
and altogether inadequate to the requirements of
the head of this great republic; though I believe
it is in contemplation to enlarge it.  The sur-
rounding buildings are so large and imposing,
that they overshadow and partially eclipse the
smaller edifice.
	The reception rooms are much too small for
the needs of this rapidly growing nation, and the
sooner the contemplated enlargement and im-
provements are made, the better.
	One feature which has tended, somewhat, to
sadden us is the black drapery upon the public
offices.  They remind us that a gallant sailor,
a noble soldier, and a great statesman have
passed away; but the record of their chivalry and 
eloquence remains with us, and the nation is
comforted by the knowledge that it once pos-
sessed such men, while others will strive to emu-
late their valor and their virtues, and by so doing
in a measure supply their loss.


To individualise the many great and noble 
minded men and women I have had the honor 
and pleasure of associating with during my visit,
would be invidious, still I may be pardoned if I 
name a few of the most prominent, among whom 
are Wm. Lloyd Garrison, son of that great apostle 
of freedom, whose voice was heard so often in 
eloquent appeal for the emancipation of the
negro, and the son to-day is following in the foot-
steps of his father, fearlessly advocating the free-
dom of that older slave, woman. 
Another who deserves all praise is Senator 
Curey, of Wyoming, who, from the stage of 
Albaugh's Opera House, proclaimed Wyoming as
the "True Republic," and to whom a very beauti-
ful offering was presented by a few women 
It was a colossal bouquet of choice flowers. To 
this tribute of appreciation and welcome, I had
the pleasure of adding my mite. There are many 
more to whom I would like to give a prominent 
place, but as I said before, where so many are 
great, it would be invidious to enumerate a few.
Among the very pleasant gatherings that en-
livened our visit, should be mentioned Mrs. J.H.
Spofford's reception, held in the dining room of 
the Riggs House, which was gayly decorated for
the occasion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying
a conspicuous place at the top of the room. On 
Saturday, Feb. 21, there were assembled in that 
room, between 9 and 11 p.m., men and wo-
men of many creeds, and divers political opinions 
yet all laboring for one end, viz., the elevation of 
woman to her proper position in God's universe.
It is said that Washington is the "Paradise of 
the colored race," and truly I should think it was, 
for we find them everywhere; whatever you re-
quire done, a colored 'pusson' does it. As a 
rule they are polite, attentive and cheerful. The 
waiter, as you leave the table, smilingly hopes 
you have enjoyed your meal, the cab driver ex-
presses the same hope as to your ride, and so on 
through all the various positions in which you 
come in contact with him.
We meet many who appear to be in good cir-
cumstances, at least their appearance would 
warrant you in thinking so; they are well dressed,
stately in bearing, and in most cases intelligent 
and well informed. We seldom meet a "colored 
gentleman" and a white man together, but they 
ride in the same street cars, and seem more at 
home in the Capitol than in any other place in 
America that I have visited.
After the dome of the Capitol, the Washington 
monument is the most conspicuous building. As 
you approach the city by railway, the white dome
stands out in bold relief against the blue sky.
The Washington monument is a plain obelisk,
strongly resembling an enlarged Cleopatra's 
needle. In the interior is an elevator, by which 
you can ascend to a gallery near the top, and 
from the windows an extensive view of the sur-
rounding country is obtained.


