A SKETCH.

	Far away in western climes there lies a most
beautiful garden. Remote from the constant
whirl and commotion of the metropolis, one
imagines himself exalted, as it were, to a
sphere beyond, when he feels the soft
sea breeze upon his cheek and notes the
beauties of nature which surround him. Here
all is quiet, peaceful,and the soul, in harmony
with the delightful associations, stands in con-
trast with the surging waves of the ocean as
they break in sublime grandeur upon the
shore. One cannot imagine anything more
lovely than the sunshine, the flowers, the
grand old oaks and the stately pines which
are to be found in this paradise of beauty.
	Many years ago there dwelt in this sequestered
spot a woman of fine intellect and much
beauty. Sorrow and trouble had driven her
aimlessly from one place to another, until
careworn and in solitude she had at last found
a place where the weary heart might rest in
quietude. Day after day she spent wandering
over the acres of land filled with delightful
pleasures, always finding something new in
nature to interest her susceptible mind. It
seemed to her that the woods and everything
that lived must entertain solemn and rev-
erential thoughts, so powerful and holy were
the melodies which came forth from the
branches of the trees and the flowing brooklet.
Beside the same brooklet she often sat listen-
ing to the sounds which dropped from the
branches like dew, sometimes forming in her
mind beautiful muses, and often humming in
unison with the trees and brooklet. She had
grown to love these melodies, and in her mind
she would associate the different tones and


thus make a harmonious whole. She would
imagine the brooklet telling the flowers of
the wonderful tree at its side, and then it
seemed as if the tree itself sang, so well and
truly had the pure spring related. The angels
above must have heard these delightful sounds,
and said to one another "we must have the lovely
songsters here in our heavenly garden," for
one day a scorching beam had dried up the
wonderful brooklet, and the beauty, strength
and life had left the proud tree at its side—
they had departed with the soul of a noble
woman and sainted sister.
		E.


