SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of meeting of the Salt Lake Co.
Woman’s Suffrage Association, held at the
14th Ward R. S. Hall, Feb. 17th, 1891.
	Called to order by Pres. Elizabeth Howard.
	Prayer by M. Isabella Horne.
	Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
Names of 65 ladies who wished to become
members of the Association, were presented
and voted in.	
	The by-laws and regulations of the
Association were read by the Secretary. 
	Pres. Elizabeth Howard made some remarks
upon the purity of elections and thought
that women who were rearing sons to vote,
should themselves be voters. The Mormons
had been charged with disloyalty, but we know
that the charge is false. Read an extract from
a paper presented at the Woman's National
Council, advocating the adoption of the
Golden Rule in our Associations.
	M. Isabella Horne said she had always
been a suffragist, and believed that in the
beginning men and women were born equal,
but that since the fall, man had not only exercised
the authority given him over women, but had
usurped some. Society needs reforming and
purifying, and very much depends upon the
mothers. Thought that the same purity of
character should be required of men as of
omen; do not b elieve in women taking the


places of men, but in their having equal pay
for equal work. Our husbands, sons, brothers,
and fathers, gave us the franchise before
when we had it, and we have faith to believe
that we will have it again.
    Elizabeth Paul said she had always been a
suffragist at heart, and had noticed in her
childhood the difference in the treatment of
little boys and girls, and thought much
depended on the home training. Had always
availed herself of the privilege of voting, as
long as she had the right, and would rejoice
when she had it again.
    Margaret Mitchell thought that the mothers
should be as free as the fathers, as a slave
mother was not a pleasant sight. Women were
naturally just, as well as naturally virtuous.
We should not treat our sons better than our
daughters. Try and inform our minds concern-
ing our present and future position, and felt
that we were moved upon by the same Spirit
that inspired the founders of this great
government, under which we live.
    Elizabeth McFarlane made a stirring speech,
and read a beautiful poem, illustrating
woman’s devotion in times of war. Said that
we must assert our rights, and we would get
them. Equal rights should be our motto.
There are men among us to day who are as
anxious to see women have the ballot, as
we are to have it.
    Pres. Howard announced that as we were
having a new Suffrage song book prepared,
we would probably have some music at
our next meeting, and also have a more
commodious place to meet in. Adjourned
subject to call of the President.
	C. C. Raleigh, Sec.


[Column 1]

