THE MOTHER OF OUR SAVIOR.

	To contemplate the life and mission of this
most noble woman, creates within the mind
the deepest, purest reverence and admiration
that mortal is capable of feeling for mortal.
What an incentive the contemplation of this
beautiful character and divine mission should
be to every young woman, to guard her
purity and virtue with the strictest tenacity,
to "magnify the Lord and rejoice in God."
	Not that she was born of wealthy parentage,
for she says herself, in speaking of the Lord's
great goodness, "He hath regarded the low
estate of His handmaiden; for behold from
henceforth all generations shall call me
blessed.	*	*	He hath put down the mighty
from their seats, and exalted them of low
degree."
	Evidently she did not belong to any one of
the higher circles, wherein existed and
operated those of large means, or great wealth.
She was of very lowly birth, and her educa-
tion, her thoughts and imaginations must have
corresponded with her humble station in life.
Yet how pure and refined must have been
every thing in any way associated with her
wholelife and being.
	The Scriptures say little or nothing con-
cerning her personal appearance. Yet it is
natural and consistent to believe she was a
most lovely maiden. The mind, indeed, can-
not conceive of one so blest and highly favored
of the Lord, being anything but beautiful.
As the presence of the Spirit of God refines
and exalts the inner nature, so does it beautify
and glorify the outward appearance. It gives
the only true beauty, the only beauty which
will endure forever, and is therefore the one
precious charm above all others which should
be sought for and cultivated by the young
ladies in Zion, since the religion they hold to
promises blessings only which are to be ever-
lasting in their nature. The mother of Jesus
being so richly endowed with the Holy Spirit,
as is expressed in the sacred records, must
then have been most beautiful. Agreeing
with this natural supposition, the Latter-day
Saints have also a concise, and to them a most
reliable declaration given by the Prophet
Nephi, who in vision beheld this Lamb of
God, and His mother, according to the flesh.
He pronounces her "a virgin most beautiful
and fair above all other virgins."
	Very little is told concerning the character
of this illustrious woman. But enough is
written to give an idea of what she must have
been.
	The indignities heaped upon the humble
servants of Christ in these days, are continual
reminders of Himself and His own sufferings


during His short career on earth. So also, do
the persecutions brought to bear upon many
of the mothers in Israel today, cause the
mind to revert to the trials, inconveniences
and sorrows to which the mother of Jesus was
subjected. Joseph, the husband of Mary, was
warned to take the young child, Jesus, and
His mother into Egypt. The servants and
handmaidens of the Lord are also warned in
these days, to flee from place to place, to es-
cape the cruelties of the enemies of righteous-
ness.
	Another similarity is, that instead of talking
to her friends and neighbors about her affairs,
Mary "kept all these things, and pondered
them in her heart." The same things are
adhered to by many mothers among our peo-
ple today. How they should rejoice in the
midst of all the trials they are passing through.
Noble and choice spirits have been reserved to
come forth in these latter days; how every
mother should sanctify herself before the Lord
and patiently await His mandates, as did
Mary, the mother of Jesus.
		L. L. G. Richards.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 1888.


