CONVENTION.

	In the last editorial the Woman's National
Council was the principal subject, now it must be
the Woman's Suffrage Convention, which was also
held at Albaugh's Opera House, Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the chair; and she is, in the estima-
tion of many "The grandest Roman of them all."
She read Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's speech,
which had been prepared for the occasion,
as the lady herself is in Europe, and she did it as
she does everything, with dignity and originality,
for she excels in being her own true self. She
has no imitation, and though she read Mrs.
Stanton's speech, and read it well, she was Susan
B. Anthony through it all, most emphatically, and
not Mrs. Stanton, or any body else.
	Her success in a great measure is due to her
personality. She is in every sense of the word
Susan, and does not copy the manners nor adopt
the style of either of the other great leaders of
the suffrage movement. She is as distinctive in
this respect as if she belonged to another era in
the emancipation of womankind.
	One finds many types of women in this great
movement, and there are those who follow a

[Column 2]

certain lead, or represent a class or kind, but
aside from these Miss Anthony stands out alone,
a figure representative, and although a leader, in
no sense of the word a copyist. Never could
there be one more pronounced as distinctive from
all others. It is seldom one sees such an un-
assuming, yet queenly woman as Miss Anthony.
Without having had the maternal development
that adds to womanhood stars in its crown of
glory, she stands pre-eminent among the women
of her race and time, for the valuable service she
has rendered to those who were and are adding
stars to the crown of motherhood. And so we
say Susan B. Anthony is the mother of mothers.
She has had a greater work to do than many who
have borne both sons and daughters, and we pay
her reverence and honor, and desire for her length
of days, and wide spread influence throughout
America's broad land.
	But we must hasten on and speak of others.
Lucy Stone was there. She was one of the first
who became identified with the earliest of the
crusaders in the conflict for woman's rights. She
is of a motherly type, and yet she stands some-
what alone, though a woman of family. She made
herself a name that was known throughout the
land in the Anti-Slavery commotion, and did not
change it even in marriage, and yet her union
with Mr. Blackwell is a most happy one. Their
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, bids fair to be-
come as famous as her mother. She has already
attained considerable celebrity in the active work
of suffrage; and is certainly one of the brightest
lights.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, one of the most noted
women in America, was also present at both the
Council and the Convention. Mrs. Howe is the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, that holds its Congress each
year in some one of the large cities of the world.
In 1889 this Congress met in Denver, Colorado.
Mrs. Howe is a very talented writer and a re-
markable woman for her age in many respects.
She travels about over the country as many young
women would think they could not; and is
still doing an active work in helping to advance
others, who have not had the advantages and ex-
perience which has made her life so full and
complete.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall is advancing very
rapidly, and her talents and executive ability are
appreciated in the great Councils of these par-
ticularly bright women that come together once a 
year in Washington. At the last executive meet-
ing of the Woman's National Council she was
elected the President for the next term, which is
a very great honor, and will give her a more
national reputation; although she has held
various other positions; she was for several years
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
National Woman Suffrage Association and Cor.
Sec'y of the Woman's National Council from
the date of its organization to the time of her
election as its President.
	There were so many other bright stars shining
in woman's firmament, if one can be allowed to
use that expression in this connection, that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject, but we
may mention the names of a few. Ella Deitz
Clymer, the former President of Sorosis, is a
superb young woman; Annie Nathan Meyers,
writer and author as well as public speaker,
is a dainty little specimen, as is also Lelia Michell,
who represented the Magazine of Poetry, how-
ever she comes in among the Press women who
will be written up in another article in this
number of the paper.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery is not only a very
efficient young woman, but is beginning to de-
velop the mother element in a marked degree.
She had her children with her, and one could
easily see what a devoted mother she was prov-
ing herself to be; and this fact disproves the

[Column 3]

argument so often brought forward by opponents
of woman suffrage that it would unfit young wo-
men for wives and mothers. Miss Foster was
very young when she commenced to take an
active part in the woman's movement, and she is
just as loving,as tender and as lovable, as though
she had never stepped outside the home circle.
	Miss Mary F. Eastman is one of the great
lights of the woman's movement. She has perhaps
the clearest method of expressing her ideas in
speaking extemporaneously of any woman on the
platform; and that is saying a great deal, for these
women are exceptionally clear headed as well as
brilliant.
	Mrs. Lyde Merriweather, with her decidedly
Southern style and accent, was one of the most
pleasing and attractive speakers; like many of
the others, her hair was very gray, almost white;
her speech was the most humorous and to many 
the most fascinating of all; she told the most
serious things in a way to make them attractive
and created more real merriment than any other
lady. She is fluent and mellifluous and has a
happy method of making people swallow "bitter
pills." She gave great truths in an effervescence
that people drank in from her charming lips and
voice, as they bubbled forth from the well filled
chalice beneath, which may make a lasting im-
pression upon those who listened, even though
taken in sparkling atoms.
	At a Convention like this, one sees and hears
so much that is good, and strong, lofty and ex-
hilarating, that it is difficult to select for a short
article the very best, because in fact it is all good,
better, best, and who is to decide which is the
highest and truest and noblest, out of so much
that is superlative. Rev. Anna H. Shaw, among
the ministers who were present should be men-
tioned separately if any one of them, because of
her great helpfulness throughout the entire week.
She possesses indomitable energy and great vigor
of mind and body; and not only has the courage
of her convictions, but is able to present her
ideas and views as vigorously and as ingenuously
as any ordained minister of "the male persua-
sion" could possibly do with fifty years practice.
	Miss Florence Belgarnie, of London attracted,
and deservedly, great attention at both the Coun-
cil and Convention, and she was indeed a pleas-
ing representative of the great Mother Country.
Miss Belgarnie was a Delegate to the Woman's
National Council from the "British Women's
Temperance Association," "The Women's Liberal
Federation," and other woman's organizations
In the N. A. W. S. A. Convention she spoke
upon the "Status of Women in England." She is
a very eloquent and spirited speaker and puts her
soul into her work; she overflows with vivacity
and is powerfully in earnest. England could not,
we think, have made a wiser choice. Miss
Belgarnie expects to lecture in several large cities
in the United States before returning to England.
She has come very highly recommended by in-
fluential people, as well as Societies, she brought
a letter of introduction to Hon. John W. Young
of our city, from a Member of Parliament. She
speaks up bravely for the working women.
	Miss Belgarnie read a Memorial of Greeting
from the women of Great Britain and Scotland,
addressed to the women of Wyoming. The
Memorial was sent to Representative Baker in
the House, and Senator Blair in the Senate. It
reads as follows:
	"We, the undersigned, women of Great Britain,
representing the societies named below, desire
to send, by our appointed delegate, Miss Florence
Belgarnie, our cordial congratulations to the
women of Wyoming on the triumph they have
won for all women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women of that State from political
serfdom.
	"We believe that the status of the women of a


[Column 1]

﻿nation is the measure of the progress attained
by the men of that nation, and that the men
and women of Wyoming, therefore, who stand
on the solid basis of political equality and full
right of citizenship, irrespective of sex, command
the highest respect and gratitude of all civilized
nations.
	"We believe also that the enfranchisement of
the women of the State of Wyoming is but a
step to the enfranchisement of the women of all
other States and nations, and we therefore offer
our sincere homage to that noble womanhood
on whose brow victory has placed the crown of
electoral freedom and equality.
	"Signed by the Central National Society for
Woman's Suffrage, the Woman's Franchise
Leagues, of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Bedford, Bridge-
port, Leicester, Nottingham, and York; the
Bristol Woman's Temperance Association, the
International Arbitration and Peace Society
the Woman Councilor's Society, the Woman's
Federal Association of Great Britain, and the
Principal of Somerville Hall,Oxford."
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby whose work on the Wo-
man's Tribune helps so much the cause of wo-
wan's enfranchisement everywhere, must not be
left out of this list of noted women, who were the
great lights in the Council and Convention. Mrs.
Colby was busy every moment (as editors
generally are), but she succeeded in getting time
to prepare a paper, and read it on the last even-
ing of the Convention; the title was, "The
Doll's House;" she described the doll wife, etc.,
and drew a very accurate picture of the situation
of such a wife, and gave apt illustrations of her
topic. She has a happy manner of presenting
unique subjects. She is doing effective work for
all women with her paper, and does not spare her-
self in the least, but enters heart and soul into
the practical management of it as well as the
editorial work.
	Isabella Beecher Hooker represented
Connecticut at the the Convention; she is one
of the best known women of the country; she
said she was tired of going down on her knees
to legislators, etc., she is certainly very witty and
always created mirthfulness in the audience
whenever she spoke, if it were but a word or two.
	The Washington Post in speaking of her said,
she had "a beautiful face, and the noble in-
tellectual features that characterize the Beecher
family;" and that she "bore a strong resemblance
to the face of the preacher and scholar, so long
the pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn."
	She is indeed a distinguished woman in ap-
pearance; once seen never to be forgotten. She
delivered quite a profound address (written) upon
"Women in Politics and Jurisprudence." She
defined politics thus: "Politics in a large sense,
meaning the science of government, includes of
course jurisprudence, or the science of law; but
treating these two separately, we will consider
politics as a method of administration, that being
the more common use of the term, and enquire
how party management will be effected by the
general participation of women in the use of the
ballot. She gave Webster's definition of juris-
prudence; a knowledge of the laws, customs and
rights of men in a state or community necessary
for the administration of justice." After elaborat-
ing upon this subject logically, Mrs. Hooker closed
her paper by saying, "thus you see, friends, the
only preparation women really need for discharg-
ing faithfully their duties of citizenship, even the
judicial, is a sense of responsibility,and that when
the legal opportunity is offered to the women of the
whole country, I believe they will not allow them-
selves to be outdone by the women of Wyoming."
	There were many other beautiful, talented, yea,
charming women, of whom it would be a pleasure
to write, who expressed sentiments and views
worthy of the highest consideration, but this

[Column 2]

article is already lengthy and at some future time
we may present to our readers, another galaxy of
these great and gifted women of the age.
	Mrs. Bertha Honore Palmer, President of the
lady board of managers of the World's Fair, is a
very handsome and graceful woman. Her speech
was of course upon the subject that at present
occupies her mind and thoughts; she made many
excellent suggestions, and added: "We urgently
request that each organization represented here
appoint a Committee of five of its most able wo-
men, to consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and present to us at an early
date their suggestions and advice as to how we
may best accomplish the great end we have in
view, and to inform us in what manner their as-
sociations will be able to co-operate with our
board in its work; and we ask that they send
their suggestions, applications for space, and so
forth, to our headquarters in Chicago, where they
will be gladly received and most carefully con-
side red and acted upon."

	"The board most cordially and pressingly in-
vites this Council to hold its international meet-
ing in Chicago at the time of the Columbian
Exposition, when it will place at the service of
the ladies, the assembly room in the Woman's
building, and should it not prove large enough,
through our congress auxiliary the magnificent
Auditorium can be secured for the International
Council of Women."
	Of the many women, whose names come loom-
ing up in the mind of the writer at this mo-
ment, and whose faces present themselves like
pictures ever present in memory, are a few we
must name here to be written of hereafter:
Elizabeth Yates, of Maine; Josephine N. Henry
of Kentucky; Ellen B. Deitrick, Mass.; Helen P.
Jenkins, Michigan; Julia B. Nelson, Minn.;
Emma Smith De Voe, South Dakota; Dr
Frances Dickinson, Chicago; Mrs. McCullough
of Pittsburg; Mrs. Freeman, of Cincinnati; Dr'
Gilchrist,of Ohio, a most charming and attractive
woman; Mary Seymour Howell and Mrs. C. K.
Hood, of New York; Lucy E. Anthony, Anna
Garlin Spencer, and scores besides.
	One, however, who must be mentioned here on
account of her valuable work for all women, is
Miss Mary F. Seymour, editor of the Business
Woman's Journal. She read a paper on the
"Occupations of Women at Date," a topic with
which she seemed perfectly familiar, and her
work in the field of labor she has chosen is a
practical illustration in herself of what energy and
determination can accomplish,coupled with talent
and executive ability. Her active work during
the week of the Council and Convention was a
positive proof of her success in the labor she has
undertaken.
	Then there were men who made speeches on
the subjects of woman suffrage, and kindred
topics, men whose names are as familiar as house-
hold words in the advocacy of suffrage, Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, of Boston, facetiously spoken of
by the ladies as "the son of his father;" Senator
J. M. Carey, of Wyoming, who received an ova-
tion that was seemingly very embarrassing, an
elegant and very large basket of magnificent
flowers, which he scarcely knew what to do with;
Senator Pickler, South Dakota; and Rev. F. A.
Hinckley,of Mass.
	The Utah Delegation must not be left out, for
they formed quite a conspicuous part of the affair,
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the Utah W. S.
A., made a five minutes speech, which we intend
publishing hereafter, and Emily S. Richards who
read a valuable paper in a clear voice and graceful
manner. Then Utah also had as delegates to the
Convention, Phebe Young Beattie and Electa
Bullock, who though not having an opportunity
to speak, did their share of voting, and as our

[Column 3]

dear Hannah T. King used to say "were excellent
listeners;" and Martha Greenhalgh was also there
as a Delegate and was a member of the Com-
mittee on Resolutions. Utah made a good show-
ing, the membership entitling her to twenty votes
the highest number from any state or territory.
	The officers of the National American Suffrage
Association for the year are: Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, President; Susan B. Anthony, Vice-
President; Alice Stone Blackwell, Recording
Secretary; Jane H. Spofford, Treasurer; Rachel
Foster Avery, Corresponding Secretary; Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee; Eliza
T. Ward, and Frederick A. Hinckley, Auditors.


