WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN'S INTERNATIONAL
		PRESS FEDERATION.
	One of the very pleasing features of the
writer’s visit to Washington was the friendly
association with press women in the pre-
liminary and actual work of arranging for
the formation of a press federation. The object
being to unite the newspaper women of the
world on some general ground that will be of
great advantage to those interested in each
other’s methods, and the uplifting of women in
the great world of progress. That union is
strength, has been pretty well conceded in
organizations of many various kinds. Several
local press associations have been formed by 
women during the last few years, and meet-
ings and clubs have given these women quite
an experience in coming together and getting
acquainted in a very friendly manner, that
[Column 2]
increases their respect for each other and
makes their affinities stronger and deeper,
and their ideas broader and more cosmo-
politan. The effect will doubtless be elevat-
ing both to the workers and the work. That the
union of women in the newspaper world will
have a tendency to greater refinement in that
line of work there can be no manner of doubt.
	The press women of Washington some years
since, formed an organization called the
National Press Association, and have held
their meetings regularly and given entertain-
ments, etc., and it was through a call by the
President and officers of the Association that 
the meetings were called.
	The first meeting of press women was in the
parlors of Willard’s Hotel, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 24. Mrs.
M. D. Lincoln, Pres. of National Press Associa-
tion,in the chair; there were present gifted
and talented women from various sections of
the country. One of the most noted, perhaps,
was Mrs. Kate Tannett Woods, of Rhode
Island the author of many books, and a lady
whose name is well known throughout the 
United States and the world. Mrs. Martha
Field, of New Orleans, better known as
Catherine Cole; Dr. Rosetta K. Gilchrist of
Ohio another celebrity; Belva Lockwood, of 
Washington, Dr. Murphy, of Toledo, Ohio;
Lilia Michell, representing the Magazine of
Poetry, Buffalo, New York; and many more,
some of them residents of Washington, and
others from a distance; the rooms were filled
with ladies whose very presence was inspiring,
and who created an atmosphere of intellectual
thought and aspirations.
	Expressions as to what should be done led
to revealing what had been done, and it was
soon ascertained that Women's Press Associa-
tions had been organized in New England,
New York, Ohio, Illinois and Kansas, besides
the National one, and that there were repre-
sentatives present from each of these. After
some discussion as to uniting. the name for
such an organization was considered, and the
naming of the association proved to be of im-
portance; it took up more time and really
brought out more brilliant ideas than the plan
itself; a great many witty things were said, by
bright young women and just as many by deep
and thoughtful older ones. Finally setting
aside temporarily the name, a motion was
made to which one or two amendments were
offered, that at last resulted in a resolution
which was presented and carried, to the effect
that a committee of seven be appointed to
draw up a Constitution that could be sub-
mitted to the women of the world for their
suggestion and approval, and presented at
another meeting to be held on Feb. 26. Mrs.
Annie Diggs of Kansas, Chairman, She repre-
sented the Kansas Press Association; Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the National Press Ass'n.;
Miss Mary Allen West, the Illinois Press
Ass'n; Mrs. Estelle M.H. Merrill, the New
England Press Ass'n; Mrs. Minerva M.
Merrill, the New York Press Ass'n.; Dr. R.
K. Gilchrist, the Ohio Press Ass'n.; and Mrs.
E. B. Wells to represent the West where no
such Ass'n., had been formed. Miss Helen
M. Winslow, of Boston, was also present by 
invitation though not a member of the Com-
mittee.
	This Committee on Constitution met in the
Riggs House parlors the following morning,
and with a great deal of deliberation and in-
terchange of ideas set about the work.
	It took some time to get the ideas crystalized
and put upon paper but when women with
marked executive ability undertake to pre-
pare a Constitution, they are sure to carry
into effect the purpose for which they started
out. The meeting of this committee brought
the ladies into such close proximity, and the 
the free and full discussion necessarily entered
[Column 3]
inso seemed to make each one feel happily 
acquainted with all the others.
	The Constitution as published in our
columns, was completed and the name given.
"The Woman's International Press Federa-
tion" this was the outcome of a desire not to
encroach upon the name National as adopted
by the Washington Ass'n., and also because
it would include the Women's Press Associa-
tions of other countries, it being well known
there was one in active operation in Australia,
and in some other lands. The Committee
decided how to get the Constitution before
the other Press Associations of the country
and adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the Willard
Hotel parlors the following day, and the 
Constitution submitted and the Committee
dismissed, but after some consideration of the
matter it was finally decided it would be
proper for a committee to meet, and such a
committee with Mrs. Martha Field, of
New Orleans to represent Southern women,
to appoint, while in session, a Chairman and
Secretary to take in hand the preparatory
work necessary to calling a meeting of delegates
from the Women's Press Associations in all
parts of the country and notifying those abroad
to send delegates or letters. The President
and Secretary were chosen by ballot, which
resulted as follow, Belva A. Lockwood Chair-
man, Annie S. Diggs, Secretary. It was pro-
posed that a meeting of Delegates should be 
held in Boston in October next, but the mat-
ter was not decided. The National Press Asso-
ciation is anxious the meeting be held at the 
seat of government in Washington.


