NOTES AND NEWS.

	At ninety-six years of age, Mrs. Matilda
Sewall, of Augusta, Me., takes rank among
the best piano-players of her city.
	The Ladies' Health Protective Association
of New York will apply for a national charter.
They have under consideration the problem
of cleaning the streets in that city.
	Leonard Grover has closed a contract with
Eugene Tompkins for a run of "The wolves
of New York," at the Boston Theatre.
Scene painters are at work getting up the
piece, which will be elaborately presented.
	Mrs. Eliza N. Blair, wife of Senator Henry
W. Blair, has nearly completed a story of the
New England life of a generation or two back,
entitled "Elizabeth the Puritan," which will
soon be published, probably by a Boston
firm.
	A Woman's Educational Union at Frank-
fort-on-the-Main, Germany, founded in 1876,
has 809 members. Its schools have 684
pupils who study, besides the usual subjects,
tailoring, embroidery, machine-sewing, hair-
dressing, ironing,millinery, and cooking.
	Madame von Teuffle, better known as
Blanche Willis Howard, is living happily and
writing busily in Stuttgart. Her husband
lately said to friend that it would be "a blot
on his 'scutcheon' if her marriage should
paralyze his wife's literary faculties." He is
said to be as proud of her as a literary wo-
man, as he is devoted to her as a wife.
	Sarah Bernhardt, with her companion, Miss
Saylor, a valet, two maids, Mr. and Mrs.
Maurice Grau and child, a Danish hound, a
Skye terrier, and the little girl Madeline,
adopted in New York, arrived at the New
York and New England station last night on
the White Limited Express from New York.
They were met by Messrs. Abbey and Schoeffel
and driven to the Vendome, where supper was
served at about eleven o'clock. Mr. Grau
said that after completing the Boston engage-
ment the company will go in turn to Wash-
ington, Philadelphia, some minor cities and
Montreal, working westward to San Francisco
by way of Chicago and St Louis, winding up
in Australia. Returning in the autumn, the
company, will again visit Boston. In re-
ference to the child the famous artist has
adopted, he knew but little. They called
it Madeline, and it was supposed to be the
offspring of a distant relative or friend of
the actress. She had taken a great fancy to
it, and after taking it with her to Washing-
ton and Philadelphia, will send it to France
to be educated.


Learning makes a man fit company for
himself.


