		GREAT FORTUNE. 

	NEW YORK, March 9, 1891. Mrs. Frank
Leslie will make a new will on Wednesday,
by which the bulk of her fortune, amounting
to at least $600,000, will be left in trust for
the establishment of a great institution for
the instruction of women, and the advance-
ment of a higher education of the sex. Mrs.
Leslie, when seen by a reporter to-day said:
“I have not entirely crystallized my plans
as yet, but the main point is this: I want
to establish an institution to help women
who can and will help themselves. I
am very much interested in art. In
fact, if I had taken my own way
I should have been an artist. Therefore,
art students occupy a prominent position
in my planning. The building must, first of
all, have lecture rooms, good studios and
facilities for instruction in painting, and in
addition, a large hall expressly constructed
with a view to its suitability for exhibitions
of pictures. I also think very favorably of
making provision for advanced students to
take continental courses of instruction in
art, though upon that point I am not entirely
decided.
	Of course, literature will also be provided
for, and I think there is a very great neces-
sity for some course of instruction in that
profession. Nowadays, I am sorry to say,
nearly every young girl in the land appears
to think all she has to do is to take a pen in
her hand and become straightway a full
fledged authoress. Why, do you know, I
have over 600 manuscripts offered me every
week, and the majority of them are just ter-
rible.
	“The sum I shall devote to the project will
be the proceeds from the sale of my business.
I value it at present at $600,000, which
[Column 2]
amount I think none to high. About a year
ago I sold the Illustrated Newspaper to Mr.
Arkell for $300,000, and my Popular Monthly,
as an investment, is worth twice as much as
that, not to mention my six other publica-
tions.
	“Within the next few months I expect to
start two new papers. One will be devoted
entirely to women and their interests; the
other will be a Spanish publication, intended
to circulate through Spanish America. I
have no near relatives except one niece, who
is married to a very wealthy man in the
West. I shall leave her my houses
and jewels. I am not so young as I once
was, and although the next ten years will not
be the best of my life, still I intend to enjoy
the fortune I have earned. Then, if I am
still living, I intend to go ahead and build my
woman’s Institute. I am deluged with
begging letters continually, but there
is a class of letters that I would
like to get, however, and that is letters writ-
ten by sensible people interested in the ad-
vancement of women, who would suggest
ideas in relation to the institute I contem-
plate founding. I wish you would say that,
for the public might help me greatly in this
matter.
	“I talked the matter over last night at the
Press Club with Mrs. Croley and others of
my friends, and they were united in thinking
this the best object to which I could devote
my fortune. Don’t you think it strange
that it has never occurred to any woman
before to found an institute for women? I am
a woman’s woman all through, and although
my business has necessarily brought me much
into contact with men, and into public notice,
still all my sympathies and hopes are with
women, and I want my money to benefit
them.”—Boston Herald.


The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book"
in pamphlet form is now ready; price, 10cts
per copy. Send orders to this office, 25, E.
South Temple St. Salt Lake City.


