SUFFRAGE.

	In the early history of our country, suffrage
was limited to church members, then to
property owners, and later all restrictions were
lifted from the citizens of a free Government,
who were endowed with sufficient intel-
lectuality, to become competent judges at the
age of twenty-one. The last advancement
removed a much greater obstacle, and this
time it was decreed that race or color should
form no consideration. We now wish to
insert only the one word "sex," to make it
read race, color, or sex, then there will be no

[Column 2]

limit to the broad platform of freedom upon
which our glorious Constitution stands.
	This word should have been inserted by the
signers of the Constitution, but it was not and
the omission has caused and is causing a great
deal of unnecessary trouble.
	Why do we want suffrage you say? Why
did our forefathers wish to be represented in
the English Parlament, and have a voice in
the law-making power? Because one person
cannot justly represent another without
having experienced similar feelings. And for
the same reason we desire to place a candidate
in the halls of Congress, and aid in the making
of the laws, for if they materially conflict
with a majority of the governed, they cannot
be classed as good, or be upheld by the
populace, hence it is of vital importance that
representatives of the people should formulate
them. As it now stands only one half of the
citizens of the United States are represented
in Congress.
	One class rules the other by the hand of
tyranny. They have no voice in the laws, the
amount of taxes they shall pay, or who shall
fill the public trusts.
	In Massachusetts those who wish to vote
must first work a poll tax. Were it possible
for women to gain suffrage by paying a poll-
tax, there would be hundreds and hundreds
seen at the polls every election day. And
why would the test be unjust? The paupers,
infirm, demented and vagabond, would be
debarred. Men or women who shared not in
political enthusiasm, would not care to pay a
dollar to secure a privilege that was not
valued.
	The polls are not necessarily a place of
uncouth conduct and boisterous language.
If women were expected and continually
appearing, quiet would reign; men would
not so far forget themselves as to indulge in
abusive language or amuse themselves by
fist fighting in the presence of ladies. It is
just as Henry Ward Beecher says, that "rude-
ness at the polls is due to woman's absence,"
that "her office is to carry with her whatever
is seemly and decorous."
	We do not want to fill man's sphere, or
rule over him as Victoria does over her subjects.
We believe that man was placed at the head
by God, but that woman's place is at their
right hand. We would like to be represented
in all political circles, to let merit, not sex,
regulate the amount due for services rendered,
to be allowed to fill some appropriate offices
under the Government, and to have a voice
in the election of the same. If, as some say,
it would be like giving every man two votes to
allow each woman to cast one, as he would
be his wife's dictator, it would pay them just to
please and satisfy the women, for do they not
make for us a heaven, or a hell? And there
could be no harm in simply doubling the
number of votes, as the ultimate result would
not be changed. But who would dictate to
the bachelor's wives, the widows and the un-
married? Oh! that is not the point, they fear
that women would not always be influenced by
their husbands, and that wicked and immoral
men would not be elected. As one writer
says "Women are too scrupulous and exacting
in their choice of a candidate to be successful
in practical politics." Would that more of
the men were afflicted with the same disease!
	Why are women not as competent to vote as
men? They are oftener sober, a greater
number of them are honest, fewer commit
murder, suicide, burglary, robbery, etc., a
less ratio become insane, beggars, or visitants
of the poor house and gambling den.
Woman has the early care and training of the
child, she plants the first seeds, makes the
first and lasting impressions; and the in-
fluences that she exerts over the child's mind
remains with it to its dying day.

[Column 3]

	It is impossible for man to go very far in
advance of woman, or for woman to far
surpass man in intellectuality, but the develop-
ment of the one means the onward march of
the other, and a systematic development of
both, for do they not have the same origin?
	We cannot impart to others what we do
not possess; and when it becomes an
acknowledged fact that she is best fitted to
perform the duties of a wife and mother,
and to have the care and training of the
representatives of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religious,
and to have the care and training of the
representitves of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religeous
and domestic affairs, the zenith of woman's
glory will have been reached, and great things
may be expected from the offspring of
such a people.
