	FAMOUS BEAUTIES.

	Two women whose prominent positions up-
on the stage have made their beauty of
world-wide fame, are Mary Anderson and
Cora Urquhart Potter, who are both dis-
tinctively American in their type, though
very unlike one another in feature. Both
are tall, exquisitely slim, with faces of a
flower-like softness and delicacy, and with a
certain air of fine, keen brilliance and vivacity
that is seen in the faces of no other type.
They both have Scotch blood in their veins,
Mrs. Potter's being of the Lowland Scotch
and the Celtic Highlander, from which latter
she inherited her splendid red hair.  Miss
Anderson is a Californian by birth, her descent
being German and Scotch.  From her birth
she was beautiful, a sort of Watteau-baby, all
pink and white and gold.  As she passed from
childhood into girlhood, she suddenly shot up
to her present height, and like all over-grown
girls, was for a time lean, awkward and un-
beautiful.  But, as the roundness of woman-
hood came, and with it grace and self-confi-
dence, her baby beauty all reappeared, and
at sixteen, America awoke to the fact that
there had appeared on the stage a woman
destined to be famous for her beauty as well
as her art. Mary Anderson was born in
Sacramento in 1859, and removed to Louis-
ville, Kentucky, whiel still a small child, re-
maining there until her sixteenth year, when
she made her first appearance on the stage
in Albaugh's Opera House, playing for one
night only in "Romeo and Juliet," to a busi-
ness of forty-eight dollars.  Her next appearance
was in New Orleans, and the rest of her
career is well know to the public.
	A charming story is told of Mary Anderson's
girlhood in Kentucky, si non e vero e ben
trovato. Her parents were not rich at the
time, and she sometimes went on errands that
should have been the duty of the servants.
One evening just at dusk she caught up an
old hat and ran without, a pitcher in her

[Column 2]
hand. Louisville is quiet enough on the more
retired streets at that hour for one to hope
that such an errand might pass unobserved.
She was then a tall, angular girl of fourteen,
desperately shy and conscious of her dress and
hat, and when she saw coming around the
corner one of the local young swells, she
made a dash in the other direction, but like
sweet Kitty of Coleraine, her foot tripped, she
stumbled, the pitcher it tumbled.  The young
man gave one irrepressible laugh, and next
moment ran forward and picked up the red,
wretched and discomfited maiden, who flung
away from his inquiries and offers of assistance
and ran home in tears. Twelve or more
years later, when the provincial swell had be-
come a celebrated journalist, he was bidden to
a reception in honor of the young actress who
had conquered all the English-speaking
people.  When he was presented she held out
her hand impulsively and cried: "I have wait-
ed for this, twelve years; it is one of my
triumphs.” Then, to his puzzled inquiries, she
replied; “Do you remember the little girl
who fell down in Louisville one evening?  I
suppose not; but I went home and cried all
the night, as only a girl of that age can weep
over a goucherie.  I knew you by sight and
reputation, and thought you a very splendid
person, and I vowed then through my tears
that I would some day revenge myself for
that laugh by becoming famous enough to
make you feel it an honor to meet me.  And
I have never forgotten the episode, because
it was the first step I made on the road I
have since traveled.”
	Mrs Potter is a native of New Orleans,
having been born there about thirty years ago.
She came of a family that had long been
wealthy and prominent in the South, and like
Miss Anderson, grew up suddenly into an ugly
awkward girl, who matured into a great beauty.
She had always a mass of brilliant, red bronze
hair, long, fine dark eyes, and skin of exquisite
delicacy, aad a beautifully modeled face, which
to this day has never lost one of its rounded,
childlike contours.  Her teeth are perfect,
and her smile peculiarly sweet and beguiling.
She was nursed in her babyhood by a negro 
mammy, waited upon in childhood by troops
of small darkies, lived the life of the average
Louisiana child, which means existence out of
doors for the better part of the entire year,
and being fed upon fruit and sugar cane.
When the lean girl was suddenly meta-
morphosed into a tall maid, slim and supple
as a serpent, crowed with a mass of ruddy
locks, and dowered with an unalterable
determination to have her own way, older
people wagged their heads wisely and
oracularly: "She will go far!"  At an early
age she married James Brown Potter, a
member of the aristocratic New York family
that had given two bishops to the diocese, and
had a career of unexampled social success in
a city where such careers are not common
without great wealth to back them.  She
organized and developed amateur theatricals
to a point they have never before or since
attained, and finally deserted her social world
for a professional career.  She has one
daughter, eight or nine years of age, who
inherits much of her mother's beauty and
emotional temperament, and who lives with her
father, seeing her other parent only at rare
intervals. Whatever may be the verdict as to
Mrs. Potter's ability as an actress, about her
very wonderful beauty there can be no two
opinions.
	Mrs. Potter has created many a stir in
fashionable circles both at home and abroad,
not only by the beauty of her face, but the
graciousness of her manner as well.  Her
strong position as a society belle enabled her
to take an independent stand on matters of
fashion, particularly in expressing her fond-


ness for artistic dress. It is related how one
day, at a reception in London, conversation
turned upon the supposed scarcity of American
materials for elegant dresses. “You have no
domestic manufactories of rich dress-goods, I
believe,” said an English friend. “Have we
not?” she replied; “I will astonish you at the
next reception by wearing an American
fabric.
	This was told from one end of London to the
other, and when the night came and most of
the people were assembled, Mrs. Potter entered,
looking as if she were a picture cut from an
old painting, in a fascinating and original
dress. Its pattern was a terra-cotta silk of
soft, pale color, beneath which were distinct
dreamy suggestions of pink flowers and green
leaves blended in exquisite harmony, trimmed
with coffee-colored lace, and with a gold
girdle around the waist. “Is that lovely fabric
really the product of American looms?” asked
her friend. “Yes, and of American design,
and better still the designer is a woman,”
said Mrs. Potter, “I like to wear these dresses,
particularly as they convince English society
that America is not without artistic taste of
the highest order.”
	In private life Mrs. Potter is even more
charming than on the stage. Her face lights
up when she talks earnestly, as she very often
does, and the fire of her eyes carries conviction
not less than her rapidly-uttered and well-
chosen words. A woman of brain and nerves,
it is scarcely to be wondered at that she
sought relief from vapid society life in some-
thing that, whatever else must be said about
it, at least calls for intense energy and
action. 
