SHOULD ALL WOMEN MARRY?

	A few months ago a young woman became
engaged to be married to a gentleman in whose
family were two brothers, both eligible young
men, but no sisters. Her own immediate
family consisted of her mother and one sister;
her father was dead, and she had no brothers.
Naturally, during the weeks of visiting and
gayety that preceded the wedding, the sister of
the engaged young lady and the brothers of
the engaged young man were thrown much to-
gether. Theatre parties and dinner parties,
receptions, and afternoon teas were of constant
occurrence, and one or other of the brothers
offered his services as escort. This was more
than sufficient to set the tongues of gossips go-
ing. Smiles, winks, and nods were exchanged
whenever and wherever the young people who
were not engaged appeared, the young lady
was congratulated in advance, and the "luck"
of the girls in finding ready-made husbands in
a daughterless family freely and audibly com-
mented upon. All this time the facts were
the farthest possible from justifying the infer-
ences drawn by the vulgar and mischievous
busybodies. The young lady, whom they took
it for granted was ready to pounce upon the
first man who presented himself, was a serious-
minded girl with a distinct purpose in her
life, and with her plans laid for steadfast effort
towards its fulfilment. The young man, on
the contrary, to whom she was so summarily
assigned, was somewhat cynical, indisposed to
marry, and only waiting his brother's wedding
to make a long-contemplated trip abroad and
possible stay of years.
	It is not my purpose now to dwell on the
heart burnings and unpleasant aspects of this
case, the inexpressible vulgarity of this per-
sonal chatter and assumption of knowledge of
other people's affairs, or of the wicked inven-
tion of facts to sustain theories when subse-
quent events do not carry out previous asser-
tions. All these things are within the per-
sonal knowledge of every one of us, and are,
indeed, matters of daily occurrence. Each
one will be able to figure to him or herself the
ominous looks, the shakes of the head, the
fears, and the additional inventions which fol-
lowed the subsidence of social relations into
their accustomed grooves, the retirement of the
young lady and her mother into their quiet
life, her assiduous application, and the de-
parture of her supposed fiance for foreign
lands.
	What I specially desire to ask is this: Why
should all women be expected to marry? As

[Column 2]

a matter of fact the majority do marry, and
in this world probably always will; for, its
primary conditions render marriage more or
less of a necessity. But it is less so to the
educated woman than to her more dependent
sister, and it is less so for companionship and
social needs than formerly. The strong re-
maining inducement is the building up of
family interests and associations, that pro-
vision for the hunger of the heart in old
age, which only children and their growing life
and love can supply.
	Apart from this there is now every induce-
ment for young women as well as young men,
who are sufficient unto themselves, to remain
single. The world has become their oyster
as well as that of man. It is as secure under
ordinary circumstances for them as for men,
It holds for them its rewards of toil. its wealth
of knowledge, its high honors as the result of
patient research and endeavor. It is no longer
obligatory upon a woman to give herself to
one man to save herself from being torn to
pieces by the rest. The world has its
marauders, but they work more by tongue than
by hand, and they retire behind closed doors
at the first sniff of danger. Doubtless wo-
men are still subjected, very largely, to the
will-compelling power of men; but the wills of
men are bent less in the direction of marriage
than formerly, and the will of the woman is
bent more frequently against it. The woman
is growing into a dual personage. To her all-
womanliness she is adding some manly attri
butes: strength of purpose, self-reliance, and
that persistent energy which is the result of
the exercise and useful employment of faculty.
If such women marry, they must share life
on equal terms with their husbands, and there
are men who are good enough and great
enough to be thankful for such equal com-
panionship. But it is not necessary to say
that the majority have not reached that point,
and it is better for the woman who is able to
order her own life and live it in accordance
with the dictates of her own conscience, to do
it alone, than to subject herself to a lower
will, and be its struggling or quiescent victim
through all the years of her existence.
	There are women as well as men, to whom
marriage is not only not a necessity, it is not
congenial. They have gifts and capacities
which they desire to cultivate and exercise.
The serious pursuit of any art or industry is
incompatible with the faithful performance of
the usual duties of wife and mother. This is
the serious utterance and conviction of one
who has tried conscientiously to unite the two.
	Of course there are circumstances—absence
of children, leisure, a favoring atmosphere—
which may promote latent tendencies, or dis-
cover them, and aid in their active development
and exercise after marriage; but these are ex-
ceptions. There are also cases, as before men-
tioned, where men and women, in all integrity
of motive, may unite their lives upon an equal
footing, and spend them in fellowship and
mutual helpfulness as blissful as any condi-
tions may be on this earth.
	But we all know that these are not the
usual terms upon which men and women
marry. That the woman relinquishes her
opportunities, and takes upon herself certain
duties when she binds herself to the man; and
that whatever becomes of her duty as wife,
nature itself compels her to realize her obligation
as mother, and lay inclination on the altar of
sacrifice. This obligation is, and should be,
imperative. Family life is the sacred out-
growth of the marriage relation—it is the
Ygdrasil of our social existence, the
sanctuary under whose wide and constantly-
spreading branches all virtues should find
sustenance and nurture. This can only be
with the wise and true wife and mother as
the centre of this growing life. If her work is

[Column 3]

delegated, her strength expended, her influence
must be dissipated and measurably impaired.
	Outside of her work in the home, the ex-
ercise and experiences of the married woman
who is the household head of a family should
be socially, mentally, and physically recreative
and stimulating, calculated to enlarge her per-
ceptions, widen her knowledge, keep her in-
formed as to the doings, and in rapport with
the thought of the rest of the world. Prob-
ably the secret of the growth of the Woman's
Club is that it performs exactly this office for
the home-making woman. This is, however, a
resource for the unmarried as well as the
married woman; and while to one it furnishes
mental refreshment, to the other, who perhaps
lives by brain-work, it brings rest and com-
panionship. Life is too full and too many-
sided now for any intelligent woman to be con-
tent in one narrow groove, and the best
modern manifestation of the freer life is the
power to choose the field in which her energies
shall be expanded without being placed under
a ban.  But the woman who marries should
do it as unto the Lord, making that her
ministry, without reference to what she has
married, for marriage is not primarily or solely
for the happiness of the individual, though
this is often enhanced, but for the preserva-
tion and growth of the race.
