A ZULU WOMAN'S MANSION.

	The Zulu woman is the architect and
builder of the Zulu house, and the style of
architecture is known in the colonies as "wattle
and daub." It looks like an exaggerated
beehive, for the Zulu mind has this peculiarity,
that it cannot grasp the ideas of anything
that is not round or elliptical in form. There
are no squares in nature. To build her
house, the woman traces a circle on the
ground fourteen feet in diameter, and getting
a number of long, limber branches, she sticks
them firmly into the ground and then bends
the tops over, and ties them with fiber obtained
from the numerous creepers or "monkey
ropes." Then she twines thicker creepers in
and out of these sticks, all around the circle
of spaces, about twelve inches apart, and then
taking wattle (a kind of coarse grass or reed)
she thatches the edifice, leaving a small hole
at the top for a chimney, and another hole
three feet square for a door. In front of this
she builds a covered way, extending outward
about three feet, and the exterior of the house
is finished by a coat of "daub" or mud. She
then seeks the nest of the white ant, and, dig-
ging them up, obtains a quantity of white
clay, which she beats to powder, dries, and
then mixing it with water, kneads it until it
is quite smooth. This she spreads all over
the ground inside the hut, and beats it care-
fully until it is quite hard and free from
cracks. This floor a good housewife will
scour twice a day with smooth stones until it
is like a piece of polished marble. The fire-
place is near the door, and is simply a ring
of this clay to confine the embers in one
place. The other necessaries found in a hut
are a bundle of spear shafts, some tobacco
drying and several bunches of millet hanging
from the roof. Grouped around the walls are
the three anasi (a species of sour milk) jars,
the native beer jars and open jars holding
grain. Of course the dense wood smoke ris-
ing coats the roof, millet, and tobacco with soot,
and long "fingers" of it hang in every direc-
tion; but the floor will be clean enough to eat
on, and as long as that is so the social Mrs.
Grundy of Zulu is satisfied—Ladies' Home
Journal.


God reaches us good things by our own
hands.


