ARTICLE I.—NAME.

	This Association shall be called the Wo-
man’s International Press Federation.
	ARTICLE II.—OBJECT.
	The object of this Federation is to bring
into communication with each other the
various women’s press clubs throughout the
world, in order that they may compare methods
of work and become mutually helpful; to ele-
vate the work and the workers, and to forward
by concerted action through the press, such
philanthropic movements as may commend
themselves to the Federation.
	ARTICLE III.—OFFICERS AND DELEGATES
	Section 1. The officers of the Woman’s In-
ternational Press Federation shall be a presi-
dent, first vice-president, and a vice president rep-
resenting each club composing the Federation,
a recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
a treasurer, and an auditor of accounts.
These officers shall constitute an executive,
committee, which shall transact the business of
the Federation and report to the Federation at
each regular annual meeting.	
	Sec. 2. The president, first vice-president,
recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
treasurer and auditor of accounts shall be
nominated and elected at annual meetings by
ballot. A majority vote of officers and dele-
gates present shall constitute an election. The
president of each club in the Federation shall be
vice-president of the Federation, or a club
may elect a vice-president from among its
members.
	Sec. 3. No member shall hold more than
one office at the same time. No officer shall be
eligible to election for the same office for more
than one term consecutively. Each officer shall,
hold office until the adjournment of the next
annual meeting. In case of a vacancy, the
executive committee shall appoint a member 
to serve till her successor be elected, at the
annual meeting following her election.


Sec. 4. Each club, belonging to the Federa-
tion should be represented at the annual meet-
ings by their president and one delegate, who
shall both be entitled to vote, and one of
whom shall present to the meeting a written
report of club work. In the absence of any
regular delegate, such delegate may be repre-
sented by an alternate.
    Sec 5. Members of clubs which have
regularly entered the Federation may be
present at any annual meeting and may take
part in discussion upon all measures brought
forward, but shall not introduce motions or
vote.
ARTICLE IV.—CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.
    Sec. 1. A woman’s press club desiring to
join the Federation should apply to the cor-
responding secretary of the Federation, and
should send to her a copy of its constitution
and by-laws, also a sketch of its history.
    Sec. 2. The secretary of the Federation
shall present the name and the credentials of
the club to the executive committee. By vote
of the executive committee a club may be
elected a member of the Federation of women’s
clubs. On admission of members and other
important business a vote by mail may be
taken when considered necessary by the
general officers.   
    Sec. 3. A club in order to be eligible to
membership in the Women’s International
Press Federation must possess the following
qualifications:—First, a constitution which
shall show by its plan of work that it is a press
club and not purely a literary association; and
second, a record of not less than one year of
organized club life.
ARTICLE V.—MEETINGS AND DUES.
    Sec. 1. The meetings of the Federation
shall be held annually— time and place to be
decided upon by the executive committee.
    Sec. 2 The annual dues of each club shall
be $10 payable at the annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VI.—AMENDMENTS.
    This constitution may be amended at any
annual meeting of the Federation by a two-
thirds vote of the members present, the pro-
posed amendment having been approved by
the executive committee; and notice of the
same appended to the call for the meeting.


