[Column 1]
number of changes had been made in the
secretaryship, Vilate Young was followed
by Caroline C. Raleigh, as secretary, after
which Bessie Dean was appointed. Ida
Whipple followed Sister Dean and held the
position until 1896, when she offered her
resignation. During the seventeen years
of the existence of this organization great
progress had been made in the advancement,
of Primary work in the Salt Lake Stake
	On September 12, 1896, a reorganization
of the Stake Board was effected. Camilla
C. Cobb having been a very efficient work-
er was selected as president, and she chose
for her counselors Lydia A Wells and
Mary L. Morris, with Ella W. Hyde as
secretary. Catherine Wells as treasurer,
Julia C. Howe and Ida Whipple Taylor as
aids.
	As the associations multiplied and the
Primary work increased, President Cobb
found it necessary to call more aids to her
assistance, and on June 5, 1897 she ap-
pointed Jane S. Hill and Lauretta Corn-
wall as aids to visit the country wards.
	On May 7, 1898, she also appointed as
aids to the Stake Board, Jessie P. Jones,
Fanny Wool[-]ey, Mary A. Tudenham and
Eliza Bergen, and soon after this Millie P.
Bassett and Clara Beebe were added to the
list of aids. As the work advanced, more
aids were required and on May 4, 1900.
Betsy Howarth and Josephine Woolley
were appointed.
	On August 4, 1900, the organist, Sister
Laura Cushing, having resigned, Lizzie
Thomas was appointed stake organist. On
March 2, 1901, Mary L. Morris offered her
resignation as second counselor in the Stake
Board on account of ill health, and Fanny
Woolley was appointed in her place, and in
September of the same year, Sister Woolley
having been called on a mission to Colorado,
Millie P. Bassett was chosen to fill that
vacancy.
	As the ranks of the aids were reduced,
Olive Pixton was appointed on October 12,
1901 to act in that capacity. On May 3,
1902, Emma Jeremy and Lucy Chanberlain
were selected, and on May 2, 1903, Mary
T. Smith was appointed an aid, making a
complete band of noble, energetic workers
in the Primary cause.
	On April 11, 1903, Nellie Penrose Whit-
ney was appointed Stake Chorister, and
with her musical experience, combined
with the efficient service of Lizzie Thomas,
the musical department has been one of
the most pleasing features in the Primary
conferences and entertainments.
	In January, 1902, the Children’s Friend
the organ of the Primary Associations,
published by the General Board, was issued
and has since been a guide to the associa-
tion, lessons being prepared for each grade.
Since its introduction into the associations,
they have been conducted more uniformly,
and better work has been done.
	Since the reorganization of the Stake
Board in 1896, great improvement has
been made in Primary work in the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. Through the untir-
ing efforts and wide experience of President
Comilla C. Cobb, and the aid and co-oper-
ation of her co-laborers, the associations
have increased in numbers and member- 
ship, and have been raised to a much
higher standard of excellence than form-
erly.
	Too much praise cannot be given to
President Cobb for her untiring zeal for the
advancement of the work, for her moth-
erly counsel and advice, and her loving

[Column 2]
words of encouragement, which will ever
be remembered by those who received them,
and will be a guide to those who may con-
tinue in the work.
	The Primary Stake Board has now dis-
solved on account of the division of the
Salt Lake Stake, but the members of the old
Board will always hold in affectionate re-
membrance the years they labored together
with love in their hearts for each other and
the children for whom they labored.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec.


