[Column 1]
of the Council, Executive and Public, may
be held in the Reichstag Building. This
is greatly desired, but if the strenuous eff-
orts to secure it fail, beautiful and ample
accommodations will be found in the Phil-
harmonie. Should the Council be honored
by being granted the Reichstag, as even its
large hall will be too small to accommodate
the Council on the occasion of its Peace and
Arbitration meeting, and, as for other reas-
sons, the Parliament House will not be suit-
able for such a meeting, that may probably
be held in the very beautiful Cirkus Schu-
man. Either in the Reichstag or in the
Philharmonie, a room will be set aside for
the use of the Council during the Quinquen-
nial week as a Central Bureau, or what in
this country we should call a “Business
Headquarters.” The Chairman of the
Sub-Committee on Hospitality recommends
as what we in the United States would call
“Hotel Headquarters” Das Palast Hotel,
Koenig Gratzer Strasse, Leipziger Platz.
	This hotel is conveniently situated to the
halls in which the meetings of both Coun-
cil and Congress will be held, and is rec-
commended as being in all respects desir-
able.
	The cost per day of a room with light
and service included is from four to ten
marks according to location; of breakfast
one mark and a half. I am at the present
time in correspondence with the proprietor
of the hotel and hope to secure such accom-
modations as will enable us to announce as
Hotel and Social Headquarters. As one of
the chief advantages of such a gathering of
women from all parts of the world is the
promotion of their real acquaintance with
one another, it seems to me most desirable
that as many as possible shall secure their
rooms in this hotel recommended as head-
quarters. If any of our American women
going over desire a cheaper hotel, one in
the same neighborhood named “Hotel
Bellevue” in Potsdamer Platz is recom-
mended. Here according to location rooms
are from three to seven marks, breakfast
one and one fourth marks, luncheon and
dinner in proportion. For the benefit of
any Council of women who prefer to make
other arrangements, I give the address of
the chairman of that special section of the
Hospitality Committee whose functions it
is to find accommodations in hotels and
pensions, and will remind ladies who prefer
privite hospitality that the German women
have very generously provided to secure
this in so far as possible for those applying
for it. Frau Cubitz, Lutzow Str. 85 B. Ber-
lin W. Germany.
	I am in constant receipt of letters from
women who have received the general invi-
tation to speak at the Congress or to “par-
ticipate” in it, asking for a statement of
their specific subjects, and of details con-
cerning their individual work. Since it is
only with the details of the Council pro-
gram that I am directly and responsibly
concerned, I am obliged to refer all such to
the chairman of the Committee of Arrange-
ments, Frau Marie Strit, Wintergarten,
Strasse 3, Dresden, Germany, or to the Cor-
responding Secretary of the German Coun-

[Column 2]
cil whose address is Berlin West 10 Frieder-
ich Wilhelm Strasse 7.
	As for the program of the Council proper,
it is being developed, with as much rapidity
as could be expected where so many coun-
tries are involved. The President has is-
sued a call to the Committee of Arrange-
ments inviting as many members as possi-
ble to convene in a preliminary meeting on
Saturday, June 4th, so that any inside de-
tails, of which there are always so many on
the eve of any great gathering, may be
provided for. It must be understood that
all preparation that can possibly be made
by correspondence, will be made in ad-
vance; that the President of the Interna-
tional Council will arrive in Berlin a week
or ten days before the opening of the
Quinquennial, and that the preparations
which must be made on and after June 4th
will be reduced to a minimum. The pro-
gram for the Quinquennial in large is as
follows:—
		SATURDAY, JUNE 4TH.
	Meeting of the Committee of Arrange-
ments to endorse arrangements already
made by the Executive in Dresden supple-
mented by correspondence during the year,
etc., etc., and to take action upon final de-
tails.
		MONDAY, JUNE 6TH.
	The morning will be occupied by meet
ings of Standing and Special Committees of
which there are now five.
	a) Press, whose chairman is Mrs. Emily
Cummings, 44 Dewson St., Toronto, Canada.
	b) Peace and Arbitration, whose acting
chairman is Mrs. May Wright Sewall, 633
N. Penna. St. Indianapolis, Ind.
	c) Legal Position of Women, whose chair-
man is Baroness Olga von Beschwitz. 5
Mozart Str. Dresden Germany.
	d) Finance, whose chairman is Mrs Dig-
ham 284 St. George St. Toronto, Canada.
	e) International Relations whose acting
chairman is the President.
	The President has asked the chairman of
every committee to convene her associates
at this time in order that any propositions
which the different committees may wish to
submit to the Executive may be considered
in such special sessions of the committees.
	The afternoon of Monday will be occu-
pied by a meeting of the Executive Comm-
ittee proper when the program will in-
clude:—
	a) To receive reports of Standing and
Special Committees.
	b) To affiliate New Councils.
	c) To elect New Patrons.
	d) To present unfinished business which
has been turned over to this particular
session.
		TUESDAY, JUNE 7TH.
	Both morning and afternoon will be occu-
pied by sessions of the Executive.
	The mornings of Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday, June 8th, 9th and 10th will
also be occupied by sessions of the Execu-
tive before which many important matters
announced in the Agenda will be brought.

[Column 3]
	All the numerous amendments to the
constitution which have been proposed dur-
ing the Quinquennial period will be brought
forward for action. While many of these
are merely formal, and others concern
merely the method of transacting business,
there are still a large number of vital im-
portance. It will be proposed at the ap-
proaching Quinquennial that two very im-
portant subjects be added to the one which
has already in 1899 been adopted for propa-
ganda. Thus far, the Council has been
committed to making propaganda only for
Peace and Arbitration. At Berlin, it will
consider the propriety of adding to its pro-
gram.
	a) Abolition of White Slave Traffic.
	b) Political Equality for Women.
	I wish to call attention to the phrasing
of this second proposition. Even our
Council Workers often speak of this as being
a recommendation of “Suffrage for Women”
and then treat this phrase as if “Suffrage
for Women” means the same degree of
political liberty in all countries. A little
reflection will show that between “Woman’s
Suffrage” as it is understood in the United
States and “Political Equality for Women”
as it is understood in the Council, there is
a wide difference, but the principle demon-
strated in the former is clearly recognized
in the latter. The proposition as it will
stand on the Agenda is as follows:—
	“INASMUCH AS ALL GOVERN-
	MENTS EQUALLY EFFECT THE
	MEN AND WOMEN LIVING UNDER
	THEM. THEREFORE, BE IT RE-
	SOLVED THAT UNDER ALL GOV-
	ERNMENTS WHETHER NOMINALLY
	REPUBLICAN OR MONARCHICAL
	WHATEVER POLITICAL RIGHTS OR
	PRIVILEGES ARE ACCORDED TO
	MEN OUGHT ON CORRESPONDING
	CONDITIONS TO BE ACCORDED TO
	WOMEN.”
	It will be seen that this proposition seeks
to abolish the political distinctions which
have been based solely on sex.
