IN MEMORIAM.
			MARY E. HARRIS.
 “Leaves have their time to fall, 
	And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath, 
And stars to set—but all, 
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, oh Death.”
	Mary E. beloved wife of E. F. Harris, and
daughter of Thomas and Ann H. Gunn, departed
this life February 29, 1904, from pneumonia She 
was born September 15, 1868, in Adamsville,
Beaver County. She was a counselor in the Y. 
L. N. M. I. Association, and secretary of the Sab-
bath School in that ward for a number of years. 
She taught school in every settlement of Beaver 
County except one. She was married in Septem-
ber, 1891, to Brother C. J. Harris, of Beaver City,
who in the following October took his departure to


fill a mission to Great Britain. During his ab
sence she supported herself by teaching school and
also contributed towards his support while in the
mission field. She was the mother of three sons,
one ef whom preceded her to the spirit world. She
filled the office of stake secretary of the Relief
Society in an able and satisfactory manner for a
year and a half previous to her demise Although
she had been a partial invilid for several years,
she was a devoted and affectionate wife and
mother, and was an efficient Latter-day Saint in
every sense of the word. She leaves a grief-
stricken husband, two children, an aged mother,
one brother, four sisters and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her untimely departure.
	Funeral services were held in the L D. S.
meeting house November 2, 1903, at 2 o’clock p.
m. The speakers all paid a high tribute to her
pure, exemplary life and stirling worth. She was
highly respected, esteemed and beloved by all
who knew her.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Alwise Creator has seen fit to call
from this sphere of action our worthy and beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary E. Harris, therefore
be it
	Resolved, that we strive to emulate her unwav-
ering faith, her fidelity to purity and truth, her de-
votion to her home and religious duties, and her
humility and respect and obedience to proper
authority.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
and love to the bereft husband and children and
to the worthy mother and to the brothers and sis-
ters and to all other dear ones and that we sin-
cerely pray our Heavenly Father that He will fill
their wounded souls with the comforting and heal-
ing influence of His Holy Spirit, that they may
realize that she has only gone before to enjoy the
