CONFERENCE, LUNCHEON AND
			RECEPTION.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall in this city, Saturday, April 2,
1904, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and
at 2 p. m., as usual, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. The stands were
very prettily decorated with flowers and
potted plants and presented a pleasing
appearance. The Relief Society banner,
which was made for the Jubilee of the
Church in 1880, was displayed upon the
organ. This banner is quite large and is
made of home made silk, heavily fringed
and handsome lettering. The Assem-
bly Hall was filled with sisters, and a few
brethren, and most of the stakes of Zion
were represented by officers, many of them
from long distances.
	A luncheon was given by the General
Relief Society at the noon hour, from 12
m to 2 p. m., at the residence of Bishop
W. J. Beatie, 55 N. West Temple, con-
venient to the Assembly Hall, and about
one hundred guests were entertained at
tables. It was a very pleasant affair and
gave the sisters from a distance an oppor-
tunity of meeting their president and coun-
selors and others in a social way, where
they could enter into conversation, exchange
greetings and get a little better acquainted
with each other.
	Monday evening, April 4, a reception
was tendered the Relief Society Stake pres-
dents and officers by the General Society,
at the residence of First Counselor, Annie
Taylor Hyde. Invitations had also been
issued to the First Presidency of the Church,
the Patriarch, the Apostles, Presidents of
Seventies, Presiding Bishops and other
Church authorities, also to the Presidency
and General Board of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Associations.
	The elegant parlors and dining hall of
Brother and Sister Hyde’s residence were
handsomely decorated for the occasion and
the affair was altogether one long to be
remembered. There was delightful music
and some vocal selections given by Sister
Maggie C. Hull and others. Brief ad-
dresses were made by the General Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and by President
Jane S Richards, of Weber Stake, Presi-
dent Emma S Smith of Snowflake Stake
Arizona, President Ann C. Woodbury, of
St. George Stake and others.
	The evening was most enjoyable, and
as this is the first reception given by the
General Society to the officers of the sever-


al stakes and missions, it is an event wor-
thy of special importance and one of sig-
nificance.


