[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
BEAVER STAKE.
	The object of Mother’s Work is to help
bring mankind to a higher standard through
the development, advancement and better-
ment of mothers.
	“Water does not rise higher than its
fountain.” “Nations do not rise higher or
faster than their women are climbing the
paths of progress.”
	“Mother, how divine your mission
		Here upon this natal sod!
	Keep, oh keep the young heart open
		Always to the breath of God.
	All true trophies of the ages
		Are from mother-love impearled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rules the world!”
Lesson I.—Pre-existencee.
	Ref. Job 38:3-7; Doc. and Cov., sec. 76:
13; Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 25; 12.
	I. Pre-natal Individuality.
	Ref. Gen. 25:21-24; Doc. and Cov., sec.
29:36; Rev. 12; 7-12; Pearl of Great Price,
pp. 9, 41.
	II. Pre-natal Influences.
	a. Heredity—ancestral characteristics and
influences. b. Parental influences, espec-
ially the mother’s. Judges 13:1-5. c.
Dwell on and emphasize which influence
should be courted and encouraged and
which restrained or avoided.
	III. Influence of Environments—mental-
ly, morally, socially, spiritually and physi-
cally.

[Column 2]
Lesson II.—Mortal Existence.
	Mortal existence—The union of the spirit
and element.
	I. Object of mortal existence—That we
may receive a fulness of joy which can
only be obtained through experience gained
in a mortal state. Doc and Cov., 93:33,
34.
	II. Channel of mortal existence—Parent-
hood—the only channel through which this
object may be attained.
	a. Importance of parenthood. Millions
of spirits yet unborn who are entitled to
mortal existence. We who have received
this blessing, are under moral obligation to
in turn do our part for those who are yet to
receive bodies. (The first great command-
ment, Gen. 1:28). To what extent are we
obligated to fulfill this divine injunction?
b. Reproductive faculties—The greatest
given by God to man. The highest penal-
ties attached to the abuse of these faculties
—Morally, intellectually, socially, spiritu-
ally and physically. What bearing does
the second commandment have on this sub-
ject? Exodus, 20:5, 6.
Lesson III. —Motherhood
	“The mother in her office holds the key
of the soul; and she it is who stamps the
coin of character.”
	1.True mother-love.
	a. Compare true mother-love with vanity.
b.Will true mother-love shield a child from
all responsibility and hardship? c. From
just punishment or reproof? d. The grati-
fication of the child’s desires or the mother's
present convenience, will not be considered
in preference to the ultimate good of the
child.
Lesson IV—Infancy.
	I. Influence of the mother.
		“Would you know the baby’s skies?
		Baby s skies are mother’s eyes—
		Mother’s eyes and smiles together
		Make the baby’s pleasant weather!
		Mother, keep your eyes from tears,
		Keep your heart from foolish fears,
		Keep your lips from dull complaining
		Lest the baby thinks its raining.”
	a. Whether we will or not, it is at the
cradle that education begins. b. How do
a mother’s looks and tone of voice affect the
infant physically? 
	II. Physical care.
	a. The bath—Cleanliness is next to God-
liness. Explain the benefits of bathing. Is
it wise to bathe delicate babies daily? b.
Dress. Comfort the primary consideration.
c. Food. Regularity. Great care should
be taken in the selection, preparation and
quantity of artificial food. d. Benefits of
sufficient sleep taken regularly. e. Neces-
sity of fresh air and sunshine to the well-
being and development of the baby. f. The
evil effects of excitement.
Lesson V.— Childhood--Physical Develop-
	ment.
	I. Food.
	a. Plain, nourishing and easily digested.
b. Name suitable foods. c. Condiments
and too much sweets and meats should be
avoided. d. Cultivate proper appetites
while young. e. Watch the digestion.
	II. Clothing.
	a. Plain and loose. b. Bad effect of
high-heeled shoes. c. Benefits of going
barefoot.
	III. Necesssty of regular bathing and
care of the teeth.
	IV. Proper poise of the body necessary
to health and grace.

[Column 3]
	V. A reasonable amount of work should
be provided to properly develop brain and
muscle.
	VI. Give the good effects of ventilation
and airing of beds.
Lesson VI.—Power of Example.
	I. Example a more effective teacher than
precept.
	II. Parents’ words and actions are re-
flected in the children, therefore the import-
ance of speaking proper and pure language.
	III. Consider the degrading effects of
slang, impure language, indecent jokes and
loud laughter.
	IV. Profanity—Third commandment.
	V. Gossip, evil and lightly speaking and
irreverence for sacred things. Beware of
destroying the influence of teachers and re-
ligious and secular authority by making
slighting remarks of same.
Lesson VII.— Obedience and Order.
	I. Necessity of obedience.
	II. Value of prompt obedience.
	III. Obedience the parent of order. Or-
der is the best manager of time, the prime
agent in private economy, accumulator of
wealth, the preserver of peace and the pro-
moter of home comfort and happiness.
	a. How does order put confusion to
flight? b. Give the value of order in the
expenditure of means and in the manage-
ment of housework. c. Explain how order
and industry are the soul of household
thrift.
	IV. Teach orderly habits.
	a. Economy of putting things in their
proper places.
Lesson VIII.—Industry.
	Labor—All labor is noble and holy. Let
thy great deeds be a prayer to thy God.
1. Industry is the soul of thrift. Explain
how. 2. Explain how industry promotes
health and dispels melancholy. 3. Why is
constant, wholesome occupation necessary
for the intellectual, moral, spiritual and
physical growth of she child? 5. Give the
benefits of children waiting upon themselves
as much as possible and bearing some re-
sponsibility in the household. 5. What is
the best plan for creating in children a love
for work? Is it wise for mothers to hire
their children to labor?
Lesson IX.—Discipline.
	“Train up a child in the way it should go
and when it is old it will not depart there-
from.” 1. How does discipline contribute to
the pea e, order and comfort of the home?
2. Give the advantage of children who are
trained at home, by wise parents, in the
habits of industry, thrift, attention, study
and cheerful obedience, over those who are
not. 3. Name the blessings of children
who are disciplined by parents in purity,
love, gentleness, kindness and a sacred rev-
erence for right and the Great Creator and
Redeemer. 4. Necessity of proper parental
control. a. Unity and harmony necessary
in successful parental government. b. Par-
ents cannot hope to govern successfully un-
less they practice self control, 5. Show the
bad effects of deceit and broken promises of
parents to children. 6. Discuss the best
methods of controling and punishing chil-
dren.
Lesson X.—Deportment.
	1. Respect to parents, brothers, and sis-
ters. a. Children who respect the authority
in the home will be respectful to the auth-


ority of school teachers, their superiors in
temporal affairs and the authority of God,
which is manifested through His prophets.
	2. Self-respect. a. Show how children
who are trained in proper self-respect will
not stoop to do anything mean improper, or
unbecoming. 3. Show the beauties of con-
sideration and kindness to the aged and in
firm, sympathy for the maimed, crippled
and deformed and charity for those who
falter and fail. 4. Explain the necessity
of training children to respect public and
private property. 5. Due reverence for
houses of worship and all other sacred
places and things, also the Lord’s anointed.
Lesson XI.—Gospel Training.
	The commandments of God concerning
the rearing of our children. Doc. and Cov.
68, Sec. beginning at verse 25. 1. Give
methods of promoting faith in the child. a.
Show how prayer develops and strengthens
its faith. b. Explain how faith in the
promises of God helps children to resist
temptation. 2 The necessity of parents
teaching their children true repentance. a.
Give the evil effects upon the child of un-
repented sins. Forgiveness is the sure re-
ward of repentance. 3. Prayer a divine
command. The authorized channel of com-
munication between God and man in all
ages. a. Object—to direct the mind of man
to his Creator, b. Show the necessity and
give the benefits of prayer. c. Discuss the
proper mode and time for prayer. d. Give
the value of children taking part in family
prayer and asking a blessing upon the food.
e. Parents, particularly the mother divine-
ly commisioned to direct the infant mind to
God through prayer.
Lesson XII.—Continuation of Gospel Train-
	ing.—Tithing
	1. Law of God. Lev. 27th ch., 30-34.
Doc and Cov. 119 sec. a. Name some of
the blessings to be gained by obedience to
the law of tithing. Mal. 3: 10; 11, 12
Prov. 3. b. Parents should teach and train
their children that one tenth of their earn-
ings and income after they become mem-
bers of the Church, belongs to the Lord,
and that they have no right to use it. 2. It
is an imperative duty of parents to see that
their children attend regularly the Sunday
School, Primary Association and Religion
Class, and that all parts are prepared for
the same. a. Discuss how these organiza-
tions are especial helps to parents in rearing
and training their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord. b. Explain how the
child is benefitted spiritually, morally and
intellectually by attending these organiza-
tions. Parents must live the Gospel them-
selves, if they expect their children to be-
come good Latter-day Saints.
			ALICE G. WHITE,
			MARY A. WHITE,
			MARY E. GUNN HARRIS,
			SARAH C. MAESER,
			MARY FERNLEY,
						Committee.


