they are so worn by time that their letter-
ing cannot be distinguished.
	In the churchyard of Milton in Kent, the
scene is most touching. In the portion bear-

[Column 2]
ing date of the eleventh century and earl-
ier, the graves of those who must have been
the wealthy ones of the time, present a sad
picture. Those covered by solid slabs, with
head and foot stones, are upheaved, as
though from the effects of an earthquake,
but that is not the reason. O, no! this tells
of the return to dust, of all that was laid
here to sleep; the consequent settling down
of the stones speaks ominously.
	In some instances the head stone is much
the lowest; in others some other part.
Some up, some down, others cracked by the
elements to which they are ever exposed;
pieces falling off, some that are thick and
heavy, and some actually decaying. Noth-
ing to tell, who found a resting place here,
their names or estate. Thoughts of the
Resurrection come to the mind, more forci-
bly here, than almost any other place, the
ground seems to sway, and tremble, the
stones upheave as though the occupants
were about to come forth. But it is only
the destruction caused by time.
	The skull and cross bones are raised on
the head stones of many of the older graves.
What a hideous emblem! Like the doc-
trines of that time, they make one shudder.
Fit objects to accompany the belief, that in-
fants not a span long, were consigned to
the abode of fire and brimstone, if they had
not been sprinkled. This is one of the old-
est Churches in England. Its records going
back to 1100, A. D. l ke many others it is
built of small black, flint stones, put to-
gether with mortar and cement. About
one hundred feet up in the turret wall,
green ivy is growing out of the cement, be-
tween the stones, it looks so strange as
there is none, on any other part of the
building. How could it have gotten there
is the question. Life in an unexpected
place. Was a seed mixed with the mortar?
or did one cling to the moss, as it was
wafted on the wings of the wind? or did a
bird carry it there? The abuttments of the
Church are all covered with moss, but no
ivy only in this spot so high up. Its his-
tory none may tell. But there it is, serenely
looking over this city of the dead. The
graves, even of later years, are all grown
over with moss, that one must scrape it off,
to read the inscriptions. One low, plain
headstone, close by the walk, tells this
simple story. “Her mayden name was
Mary Smith, 1637.” The English long
“S,” is used, and “birth” is spelt “byerth.’’
Near this grave is a sun dial it has lately
been restored, and is really a fine one. It
was placed there about 150 years ago. Its
solid stone base, though so thick, has been
cracked twice across, but is now braced and
cemented together One can imagine time
laughing at the efforts, man puts forth, to
perpetuate anything. O, if only those hor-
rid skulls would not grin over the cross
bones among these scenes of desolation!
	The long dark grass unmown, neglected,
thick with the moss germs that creep among
it, what of its story? The answer is appar-
ent. Those who in ages gone, took pride in
those graves and watered them with the
tears of affection,—sacred, because of the
precious dust that sleeps there—have also

[Column 3]
joined the procession, that is marching on,
they in their turn have come here lying
down to rest: while the following genera-
tions, have gone into the world to other
lands, leaving their treasures behind,
“where the rude forefathers of the hamlet
sleep” The new part of the cemetery,
shows how the world has progressed. The
graves are neatly kept, white stones take
the place of grey: but they are not so strong,
and in a less number of years, than have
passed over those before described, no trace
of them will be found. Nice iron fences
surround the graves, while lovely flowers
and plants bloom over them On a stone
surrounding a grave, read the following:
“How glorious” a hand—pointing heaven-
ward—“are the feet of the righteous.”
	The lovely September weather, was one
to walk through the green lanes of Eng-
land. The day has been warm and balmy.
The sun is well rounded to the west, when
a visit to the old church at Tunstale is un-
dertaken. It is a lovely walk of two miles.
Entering the church, we find a workman
from London, who is repairing the organ,
and permits us to visit through the build-
ing. Many here too, are sleeping the last
earthly sleep. Some really fine monuments,
tell of the notable ones of other days. Some
are of clear yellow, white with roses and
leaves entwined, raised as a beau[-]iful bor-
der, all around the side they stand about
four feet high with Latin inscriptions on the
top, bearing date 12th century. Under the
stone floor are vaults, belonging to some of
the ancient families, some bearing only the
name. On a dark slab, over one just at the
foot of the channel, is the following: “In
memory of Lillian who died in the sure
hope of a glorious resurrection on the 4th
of January, 1809, aged 17 years. An error
in transposition, but it set the time of her
resurrection. In the church yard are some
also very queer. One reads to the memory
of M. Chambers. “What kind of a man he
was, the resurrection day will discover.”
	Here are some tall fine yew trees under
the wide spreading shade of one, are twenty-
five raised mounds. A quaint winding
path ascends to the church-yard, flowers
blooming all along the way while some del-
icate tea roses, adorn the surrounding plots.
Among the more modern, on a white stone
is an angel in gold, raised on the marble,
wings and all. It is a pretty place though
the grass here, is high and dark also.
	The city cemetery in Sittingbourne, the
walks are wide and white; lawns well kept,
white shrubs of various kinds, trimmed in-
to fantastic shapes, add to the beauty, and
general effect. It is laid out on a sloping
hill, not too steep, but rolling. Whether
one looks upon it from the main entrance,
or the one from the Recreation ground, it
is equally enchanting. It is strictly mod-
ern. The stones and crosses are of fine
white marble. On the graves bloom many
red geraniums, which show so plainly
among the tomb stones, taking away the
cemetery look by their warmth of color.
Near the main entrance stands the residence
of the keeper, almost buried among trees
and flowers. A short distance away, is the


building, with a high covered arch, on one
side the church, on the other the chapel.
Services are conducted in either, according
to the belief of the departed. Many fune-
rals drive straight through to the arch,
when the coffin is borne in on the shoulders
of six men.
	If the family is wealthy, the mlnister of
the Church of England clothed in his
black and white robes, proceeds down to
the entrance gate, and meets the procession,
reading as he slowly walks along in a
drawling, mournful voice, "I am the Res-
urrection and the life; whoso believeth in
me though he be dead, yet shall he be made
alive."
	The wealthy dead of the town are mostly
buried here. The trees attract attention,
so many varieties; some from other lands,
Scotland, America and elsewhere. Numer-
ous inscriptions many from the Holy Book
are written on the stones, while verses
adorn others, expressing the feelings of
those who mourn. Here are a few of the
original ones.
"Vain to the dead are tears, and vain is praise;
And vain each fond memorial we can raise;
The grave should teach, the grave should e'er im-
	part,
Such truths as melt the eye, and mend the heart."
"Sleep on beloved husband, take thy rest;
Lay down thy head upon thy Savior's breast;
We loved thee well, but Jesus loved thee best."
	"I shine in the light of God,
		His likeness stamps my brow;
	Through the shadow of Death, my feet
			have trod
		And I reign in glory now."
"He has gone, and the grave hath received hiim'
	It was Jesus who called him away;
He has gone to the Lord who redeemed him,
	From the night to the splendor of day."
		"Faint not for fear, His arms all near,
			He changeth not, and thou art dear;
		Only believe and thou shalt see
			That Christ is all in all to thee."
