taught early in life. A mother’s influence.
The part a mother takes in the forming of
character cannot be over-estimated. It is a
social duty to be cleanly of speech, person
and dress.

	True politeness is to do and say,
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.

	Questions.—1. How can we overcome
evil with good? 2. Illustrate how we can
encourage virtue? 3. Name some good
books suitable for children of all ages. 4.
llustrate how a mother helps to form a
child’s character. 5. Why should we be
clean of speech, person and dress?

Lecture XI.—Spiritual Development.

	Each day should properly begin with
prayer. Peace, love and contentment come
from within. Christ the true ideal. One
life which embodies all the virtues, should
be made the example in the life of all. Give
special religious training in order that hon-
or for the priesthood may be fostered. Why
should the lesson of obedience be one of the
foundation stones of character building.
How is obedience connected with our spir-
tual progress?
	Questions.—1. Why should each day begin
with prayer? 2. Do favorable temporal sur-

[Column 3]
roundings make us contented and happy?
3. How do parents constantly teach morals
good and bad to their children? 4. How
soon does a child have a moral sense? 5.
What special religious training should be
given in order that children may obey or
honor the Priesthood?

Lecture XII.— The Development of the
	Child to Man and Womanhood.

	Teach the child the sacred laws of life be-
fore he gains the knowledge from evil
minds. Be sure you have his confidence
and then pay strict attention to every need.
Assist the children in choosing suitable
companions and books. During the devel-
opment period the boy and girl should be
tenderly and wisely guarded.
	Questions—Do you think children should
be taught the sacred laws of life, and how
soon? How can we gain their confidence,
and what are their needs? How can we as-
sist our children in choosing their compan-
ions and books? To what extent should
our boys and girls be allowed to participate
in dancing and other exciting pastime?

