NEW YORK LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	I enjoy reading your little paper, which is al-
ways full of instructive reading, I take great
pleasure in watching the progress that is being
made by our Relief Society organizations at home
and throughout the world.
	I am sorry to note that so many of our faithful
workers seem to be passing away. Only a few
seem to be left to tell us of the interesting inci-
dents of the early days of the Church.
	We held a meeting here in New York on the
17th March, in commemoration of the first Relief
Society organization, as I presume was done in
most of the places where there is a society. We
had a nice program; and spent an agreeable
evening.
	Our society here, though not very large, is in
good condition, and all seem to be desirous of do-
ing what they can for its advancement. It is
composed mostly of those who have embraced the
Gospel here, though a number of our sisters from
home have been enrolled from time to time; but,
of course, their stay is of short duration. We have
felt, however, their support, both in an intellectual
as well as a financial way, for which we feel very
grateful.
	The sisters here are energetic, and full of faith,
and are anxious to learn all they can. and what
they can best do to forward the interests of the
cause.
	We have been able to do quite a good deal of
charitable work. Our means is obtained mostly
by entertainments and from members of the soci-
ety, as it has not been deemed practical as yet to
carry out the system we have at home, the distanc-
es between the homes of the Saints being so
great. Some are located here, others in Brooklyn
and elsewhere.
	Most of our meetings are held here, but we en-
deavor to hold one every month in Brooklyn,
where much interest is always taken and a good
spiri t prevails.
	We hold sewing classes quite often, but many
that woul d like to attend are holding positions
and are engaged during the day, so that our at-
tendance is small; but we have been able to ac-
complish a good deal in aiding those who are not
able to get such work done any other way. As
soon as we relieve those conditions we intend
making articles to sell—we have already a quilt
almost completed, which we think will bring a
nice sum.
	We have devoted much of the winter to


studying the “Women of the Bible.” It has
been very interesting, and I assure you very
profitable. We also hold a monthly meeting
either at my house or at President McQuar-
rie’s. In this meeting the Elders are invited to
meet with us. A paper is read by one of the sis-
ters, and the topic fully discussed. A great deal
of interest is taken, and much valuable instruc-
tion is derived from such meetings.
	The sisters express great satisfaction from the
lessons and experience that they are having,
which they feel are calculated to better fit them
for the defense of their faith, which is so often
required of them, especially when the “Mormon
question” is agitated, as it is so frequently is by
the press.
	I feel very much endeared to the sisters associ-
ated with me, whom I believe to be loyal and true
Latter-day Saints. Many of them are called upon
to make great sacrifices and have much prejudice
to overcome, but through prayer and unbounded
faith are triumphant.
	The secretary has forwarded reports, or fur-
nished them, rather, to the conference, which I
presume you have received in due time.
	I had no idea of giving you such a detailed ac-
count when I started to write, but thinking that
you might want to hear something of what we
are doing here, I have ventured to trespass upon
your valuable time,
	With sincere regards, your sister in the Gospel,
