D. R. MEETING.
	The regular monthly meeting of the U.
S. S. D. R. was held on Saturday, April 16,
at the residence of Mrs. T. G. Webber, at
3 p.m. Vice Regent Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie presiding in the absence of the Re-
gent Mrs. I. M. W. Sears. Prayer was
offered by the chaplain Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth and the reading of minutes and tran-
saction of miscellaneous business was at-
tended to as usual, after which the Secre-
tary Mrs. George A. Smith read the paper
prepared by the Regent. The subject was
General (Marquis) De La Fayette, and was
well written and contained much valuable
information concerning this great and good
man, the friend of Washington and of lib-
erty, that ought to be garnered in the
minds of every patriotic woman. Mrs.
Smith read the paper with much pathos as
though she loved her subject, and it was
very evident Mrs. Sears had put deep feel-
ing into its construction and arrangement.
Mrs. Mira Young Rossiter gave the story
which was quite diverting on account of its
giving much of the fashion of the La Fay-
ette period, and was quite apropos to the
time. Mrs. Richards, (mother of Mrs.
Webber) recalled some incidents concern-
ing these fantastic costumes worn some
years afterwards, and Mrs. E. B. Wells re-
membered hearing her mother tell many
times of meeting La Fayette on his last
visit to the United States. Mrs. Julia F.
Lund read with great fervor the Star
Spangled Banner and the Marsailles, the
National songs of both the countries La Fay-
ette loved so well.
	There were present three or four invited
guests, friends of the hostess, who seemed
to enjoy the meeting very much.
	The handsome parlor and library were
decorated with stars and stripes and the
colors of the Society; and delicions refresh-
ments were daintily served after which the
meeting adjourned to May 16, to be held at
the home of Mrs. George A. Smith.
						E.B.W.


Mrs Jennie Nelson of Ogden has been
elected by the Utah State Republican Con-
vention an alternate delegate to the National
Republican Convention. In a state where
women cast half the votes a woman delegate
should have been elected.


