[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	The annual meeting of the Daughters of
the Pioneers was held at the residence of its
Founder-General Sister Annie Taylor Hyde
on April 11, 1904. Meeting opened with
prayer by the Chaplain, Sister Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Isabel M. Whitney
Sears, took charge of the meeting in the ab-
sence of the President, Sister Alice Merrill
Horne, Counselor Elizabeth S. Wilcox was
also present, Secretary read the minutes of
the last annual meeting—and the names of
the daughters whose papers were ready,
were read by the Secretary and they were
admitted to membership in the Society.
	The program for the year which had been
prepared by a Committee consisting of the
President Alice Merrill Horne, [-]er Coun-
selors, Sisters Isabel M. W. Sears and Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox also, the Historian of the
Society, Sister Edna L. Smith and Treasurer
Minnie Horne James was submitted for ap-
proval and accepted by the meeting.
	Sister Alice K. Smith gave the history of
the Society with a sketch of its Founder
Annie Taylor Hyde which was very inter-
esting and contained many important items
valuable to the Society which is one of
great historical value to the Latter-day
Saints perpetuating the memory of heroes
and heroines, the pioneers of the Great
American Desert.
	Sister Zina Young Card one of our
most eloquent speakers addressed the meet-
ing, her subject being, “A Broken and a
Contrite Heart,” dealing with the martyr-
dom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the
Church. A most pathetic theme which she
handled with the true spirit of a Saint in
very deed.
	Remarks appropriate to the occasion were
made by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson. The meet-
ing must have been significant of the great
work which the Society has undertaken,
viz., to follow out the plan of forming com-
panies of tens, fifties and hundreds as did
the original pioneers.
	The President has mapped out work that
seems almost marvelous in theory and scope
and will give those engaged in its develop-
ment an experience specially educational in
the history of the past half century.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was held on Sat-
urday April 23, 1904, at the home of Sister
Phebe Young Beatie at 3:30 p. m. Counse-
lor Isabel M. W. Sears in charge. As it was
a very stormy day the attendance was
light, but the meeting was enjoyable, after
prayer by the Chaplain, Miss Phebe
Scholes gave a reading from the journal of
her grandfather, President Wilford Wood-
ruff which gave an accurate description of
the entrance of the pioneers into the Salt
Lake Valley and of other important inci-
dents in connection thereto, Sister Clarissa
S. Williams read in a tender voice and most
effective style the hymn, “A poor wayfaring
man of grief,” before commencing Sister
Williams gave in brief a good word picture
of the author of the hymn and brief sketch
of his life work.
	Sister Lucy Russell Pratt read a paper
written by herself on her mother’s life,
Sister Hannahette Snively Pratt a pioneer
of 47 and combined with it something of
the history of her aunt her mother’s sister,

[Column 2]
Susannah S. Young, their lives were in
many respects similar. Sister Nettie Y. Eas-
ton was invited to speak of her mother, Sis-
ter Clara D. Young the first pioneer woman,
and said a few words in praise of her noble
character, mentioned some of her charitable
deeds. After the closing exercises meeting
adjourned to meet at Sister W. N. Will-
ams, May 24, 1904.


