ELIZABETH PIXTON.
	Sister Pixton, who was called suddenly
from this life, March 21, 1904, to join her
husband and loved ones who had gone be-
fore, had been for many years a conspicu-
ous figure in this vicinity; she was a wom-
an of great strength of character, and un-
common executive ability. She will be
missed in various ways, and in many
places. She was a woman of great integ-
rity to the Gospel and of a generous na-
ture, her good deeds will live in the mem-
ory of many whom she helped without
letting “her right hand know what the
left hand doeth,” according to the scrip-
ture.
	Sister Pixton was president of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville at the time of
her death, and had held the office over
twenty years.
	A sketch of her life was published in
the EXPONENT, February 15, 1900, short-
ly after she had celebrated her 80th birth-
day anniversary. On that happy occasion
about three hundred people assembled in
her honor at the meeting house in Tay-
lorsville. Many tributes were given her at
that time of affection and friendship, and
she was honored by all present each of the
speakers testifying to the high esteem in
which she was held by the community,
and her liberality to the poor and needy
was favorably commented upon.—E. B. W.
	The Relief Society officers of the Granite
Stake of Zion, to which she belonged,
wishing to do honor to her memory have
prepared the following—
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our much esteemed sister and
colaborer, has by the hand of divine prov-
idence been removed from our midst, and
has, we feel confidently assured, gone to a
better world, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express
our tender sympathy for the bereaved fam-
ily, and to acknowledge her labors and
ministrations of kindness, as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word.
Therefore be it
	Resolved, we do humbly testify that
charity and humility were leading traits of
her character, and that her last act the day
before her death was one of charity, and
that her simple and unassuming manner
was beautifully illustrated in her last re-
quest, “that her coffin should be plain and
no flowers placed upon it, as the money
could be used to better advantage.”
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and that they and the sisters of the
society over which she presided so long
may follow her noble example of diligence
and faithfulness.
	Resolved that these resolutions be re-


corded in our stake record and also pre-
sented to the family and published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMA S. WOODRUFF,
MARY P. YOUNG,
CATHARINE H. BROCKBANK,
	In behalf of Granite Stake Relief Society.


