[Vol6 | January 1919 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Humility]

Humility
========

Humility. Emily Hill Woodmansee. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the Kingdom of God as a little child, shall in no wise enter therein (Luke 18:17). Oh, wherefore is thy kingdom small, Great founder of the universe? Did not thy power create us all, Should not the world thy call rehearse? And if the world should praise thee, sire, The world we must account our kin. Make the way broad, that each, that all May to thy kingdom enter in. Thy mercy, Lord, is boundless, too. Thou wilt not read our thoughts amiss. It seems ungenerous that so few Should tread the narrow way to bliss. Poor mortal! know the gate is low. 'Twas ever thus, it must be so. Obedience is the only key, The portal is humility. Were not the gate thus small and straight, More than the just would enter in. Then sin and strife and evils rife, Would mar the heaven the pure shall win. The way is narrow, but for those So puffed with power or pride or care, A broader way they needs must choose; They cannot stoop to enter there. Pride ever leads the soul astray, Ambition often doth ensnare, And shining riches strew the way Of selfish mortals unaware. Offenses block the path of some Who start for the celestial road. But woe to them by whom they come; They ne'er shall see My blest abode. Unto the pure all things are pure. The wise are faithful to the end. Great peace have they who love My law; Yea! nothing shall their souls offend. How many men are worldly wise, So deep their thought, so proud their soul; The holy priesthood they despise, And scorn to brook its just control. 38 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. At such the very Gods do laugh; For who so great a fool as him Who prates of knowledge, yet will quaff The cup of folly from the brim. Poor fools! and blind those men of mind Who would the loving God defy. Themselves alone, as wise they own, Themselves alone they glorify. But humbly, as a little child My kingdom shall the poor receive; The faith so pure and undefiled. None but the humble will believe. A mustard seed is small indeed. Yet with My kingdom 'twould compare. But it shall grow till every soul That's honest, finds a shelter there. The vile would part the pure of heart. The wicked plan my peoples fall. But I will rend their foes apart, I, even I, the Lord of all. Yet even as I love the world. So even now I would relent And spare e'en those, my bitterest foes. If happily now they would repent. For surely thus the Scripture saith God waiteth ever to forgive; He willeth not the sinners death. But would that such should turn and live. The world that owe their life to me My law and love shall ransome still. But those alone my face shall see Who serve me with a steadfast will. For those who fear my name divine, I will reserve celestial things. The sun of righteousness shall shine For them with healing in his wings. My yoke is easy to be borne. My burthen to the pure is light. My spirit comforts those who mourn. My law is every saint's delight. My grace I to the lowly give. My substance to the meek and mild. My kingdom none shall e'er receive Excepting as a little child. HUMILITY. 39 E'en as a child! a little child: And must we then so humble be? And must we thus the truth receive, E'er we our Father's face can see? Oh! if the gate is small and straight, We in the dust our pride should fling. Alas! how few shall enter through And reign with the eternal King. E'en as a child: no other way, No better broader road than this, Can lead to realms of perfect day Or reach the goal of highest bliss. Great God; must we so lowly be? Teach thou my soul humility!