nearest and dearest" this year, placing his peace of mind before all material gifts. Tell your friends that hereafter you will accept and give nothing but the gift supreme, the gift of the angels, good will." Richard was growing uneasy. The Christmas season was drawing nearer and nearer. And yet no mention was made of the money for the gifts, the $100 so difficult to raise. Christine was kindness and consideration itself. At first Richard was restive and suspicious of the warmth of affection which proverbially bodes ill for a man's purse strings. When the days passed and no attack was made on the slim wallet, a grim fear clutched him. The presents were being charged! The bills in that way would amount to considerably over the first cash estimate. Charged accounts always did. The extra affection was to prepare him for the January onslaught of bills. How deep these women were! — Now a mere man but what was the use? Richard's hand went into his pocket. He drew out five ten-dollar bills. He had schemed and maneuvered to save them to pay on their accounts. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 693 "We ought to square our accounts with these," he said as he handed them to his astonished wife. "But use them for those so Christmas gifts. Don't charge anything," he added. "It is more than one would think of paying, if one paid at once." Christine's eyes caught the worried look in her husband's face, and she yearned to press his boyish head in her arms and set his fears at rest. But no, she had made up her mind to wait till Christmas. "You know we are not to give each other anything, this year," Christine volunteered as a partial concession. Richard merely grunted. He had a distinct recollection of a similar remark made a certain Christmas before. A remark he had taken literally. And when he appeared that Christmas morning and found his sock filled to overflowing and caught Christine surreptitiously removing her empty stocking and weeping bitterly into it, he decided that the ways of women were past finding out. He registered this bit of Solomonic wisdom deep in his consciousness when a woman says "Let us give each other nothing," come provided with the handsomest gift you can procure. Richard made a mental note that he had better get a glass baking dish, like the one Christine had selected for Clara. He had already learned the feminine way of giving to each other the gift you desire for yourself. He was not surprised Christmas morning when he surveyed the array of tissue-paper-covered parcels heaped about his place. With the usual masculine misgivings as to what impractical atrocity may be lurking within, Richard undid the first parcel. He was interrupted by a cry of delight from Christine. "The very dish I was going to get Clara," she laughed, "but Richard, I thought we were not to get anything for each other this Christmas." "I kept my promise as well as you did yours," he retorted as the first wrapper fell from the parcel. Then a look of misery crossed his face as he read the card, "A wrinkle-eradicator for my dear husband." Cold cream! She had bought him cold cream! Richard almost shuddered. Surely Christine knew how he loathed the touch or sight of cold cream or oil of any sort. Truly a man never knew what might happen to him after he married. He undid the second wrapper. Instead of a jar of cold cream, a roll of bills slipped out. Then she had charged the presents. Richard picked up the first one. It was marked paid. So were each of the others. They were the bills he had meant to pay with the fifty dollars he gave her. Somewhat mystified, he glanced at his wife. But she was already by his side, her arms about his neck, her cheek against 
 his. "I wanted you to be happy this Christmas, sweetheart," she cried, "peace in your heart and no worries on your brow. I have been the bell-sheep, too, as you suggested. All of our crowd have taken grandma's suggestion and considered first of all the one 'nearest and dearest.' But you haven't opened the other package I sent you." With eager fingers, Richard undid the wrappings. After innumerable papers had been removed he found only a card on which was written: "This gift, I give to you, the gift of the angels, my unfailing, unwavering good-will. Please God, it is to be yours forever. Never to be dusted or consigned to the attic. It implies no return favor unless you will, and I so merit it, your gift of good-will toward me." "It was the only gift I sent out," Christine cried as her husband folded her in his arms, "but I sent it to each of my friends. They say it is good to give gifts. It expands the spirit. If that is true, and I believe it is, surely the gift of good-will expands and enriches the soul more than any other gift: because more of ourselves goes into the giving. I used to worry over whether this or that present would please. I used to scheme and contrive to extract money from you to pay for things. Sometimes I even thought with resentment of the friends as I puzzled and stitched to please them. This Christmas season, to make good my gift, I have thought with the tenderest sympathy and warmest love of the many friends I wished to remember. I have pledged myself to allow no unkind thoughts to arise in my heart about them. I shall permit no ill-natured criticism of them to reach me unchallenged. And I like to hope that wherever they are today, each is sending her message of good-will to me." "I know one that is," Richard cried, deeply moved, "one whose love is deepened a thousand-fold. I believe good-will is sometimes a rare gift from a wife to her husband and vice versa. And I'm prouder to have married the bell-sheep than I was to marry the belle of the balls we used to attend." It is always something of a problem to find books for children that interest and amuse them while delicately suggesting a moral lesson at the same time. The story just out by Lebbeus Mitchell called Bobby in Search of a Birthday is both appealing and interesting. It is a perfectly safe book to put in the hands of children, and parents will find it full of a touching charm as well. Those who want a Christmas book for children would do well to buy this little volume. Sold by P. F. Volland & Co.,, Chicago, Illinois.