[Vol21 | December 1934 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT of modern civilization when we stop to think, are closer to the heart and the home, than this problem of proper housing. Most of the housing problems, of course, are in connection with city life. But what of the country? Contaminated water, for instance, is more apt to be found in small towns, and many farmers are careless about the location and depth of wells. Then there is the contaminated soil in the hook-worm districts. An Agricultural Department bulletin, in 1926, found that "slightly more than a twentieth of all the homes reporting (1466 in eleven States) were completely modern; that is, fitted with central heating and central lighting systems, running water, kitchen sink and bathroom (equipped with stationary tub and bowl), indoor toilet and sewage disposal. About a fifth of the homes were partially modern; that is, fitted with a part of the improvements named. Almost threefourths of the homes have none of the modern improvements mentioned above." The same conditions have been found in thirty-three Northern and Western States. Yet, in this last group, 30% had automobiles, 38% telephones, although in 61% women were water carriers, having to go an average of 39 feet to fetch it. It would seem, therefore, that. The housing problem directly touches the country districts as well, though not perhaps to the same extent. Overcrowding is common to both. It is enlightening to consider the death rate per 1000 in the United States, as compared with that in ten other countries: New Zealand, 8.7; Australia, 9.4; Netherlands, 9.8; Norway, 10.9; Denmark, 11.1; Canada, 11.4; England and Wales, 11.6; Sweden, 11.8; Uruguay, 11.8; Germany, 11.9; United States, 12.1. 779
After giving these figures from the Australian Year Book, Mrs. Wood, who is our highest living authority on the housing problem, states:* "Why are we so far down the list? Is it poverty? Ignorance? Density of population? Bad climate? Or is there some public health policy which they follow and we do not? Housing is the answer. Ours is the only one amiong these nations which considers it no concern of the community that a third of its families live in homes which lower their ressitance to disease and multiply their chances of infection." In this connection it is interesting to inquire as to the percentage of people in the United States who own their own homes. It varies, of course, in the different States and in the city as compared with the country. In 1920 it was 61.7 percent, unencumbered, in the nation as a whole. In the Middle Atlantic States it was 37.2, but in the West North Central States it was 56.4. The percentage of Latter-day Saints who own their homes is now (1934) 62. Fortunately the United States is waking up to a realization of what proper housing means to the commonwealth. This is one of the things to which the New Deal is directing attention. In New York City, for instance, millions of dollars are being spent in tearing down unsanitary tenament houses and building on the sites new, modern structures. And Secretary Ickes said recently, "We hope to demonstrate through actual slum-clearance projects in a dozen or more cities what decent housing at a minimum rental will mean for those cities in the way of improved morale, of healthier living, of abatement in delinquence. Slum clearance not only serves a highly Recent Trends, p. 288. 780 desirable social purpose, it offers an opportunity of employment for men in our crowded cities where the building trades have especially suffered during these years of depression. Our hope is that when the cities begin to receive the dividends that we know they will receive in social returns from these housing projects, the municipalities themselves or groups of citizens will take up and carry on this desirable work." This attempt to solve the housing problem in the United States is, of course, not new; it is only an effort to do here what has been going on in every country, especially in England, since the War. During his administration President Hoover, who was always interested in the human side of business, called attention to the fact that "it is easier to borrow 85% on an automobile and repay it on the installment plan than to buy a home on that basis?and generally the house requires a higher rate of interest." The finance of home building, he said, "especially for second mortgages, is the most backward segment of our whole credit system."
7. Influence of a Great Woman. Such, then, is the importance of the housing problem in human life, a problem that concerns society as well as the individual; such the attempts that have been made to solve it in the light of advancing civilization; and such the character and work of the woman who not only stands at the beginning of the movement to provide better housing for the lesser-paid workers, but who remains today the outstanding figure in the history of the better-house movement. Few women have attacked so big a problem with so much intelligence, insight, and courage; and few public workers have been more humane, persistent, and sweet-spirited. And now it remains for the women of today and tomorrow to carry the torch which Miss Hill lighted so brilliantly. But it will be of no avail unless they work in the same spirit as did the woman of whom we have been studying. "In one sense," she said once to a Mr. Blyth, "one is never lonely in one's efforts to stem wrong. So mighty is the Power that fights with us!" And what a young social worker said, after reading about Octavia Hill, is true: "It isn't so much what she accomplished that matters, but rather the spirit in which she worked, that gave her power.' "Oh, Mary!" Miss Hill said, away back in 1869, to Miss Harris, "life and its many interests is a great and blessed possession. I love it so much. And yet it seems such a simple, quiet thing to slip out of it presently; and for other and better people to take up their work, and carry it on for their day too."
Problems for Discussion
Discuss the effects of (a) lack of sunshine, (b) proper ventilation, (c) overcrowding, (d) unsanitary conditions, on the health and morale of the family. What is the effect on adolescents of overcrowded homes without attractions or room for the visits of friends or home entertainment? How may a dilapidated house develop in its inmates a personality handicap? Discuss good standards of housing in regard to number of rooms according to the size of the family (no more than two persons to a room), water supply, heating, lighting, house-keeping conveniences, toilets, screens, cleanliness? Are LESSON DEPARTMENT there any housing problems in your community? Any slums? Are provisions made for playgrounds in your community; for parks and open spaces as the community grows? In what ways can women help to improve housing conditions, such as proper water supply, sewage, the disposal of garbage? Discuss the housing plans of the Federal government; of your local governments.
Mission Lessons
LESSON V. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING
BURNS AND BRUISES
"Better be safe than sorry."
BUT no injury is more distressing or more painful than a superficial burn.
There is no other injury so dangerous to life, as an extensive and serious burn.
Burns involving more than one-half the surface of the body, in most cases, end fatally. The gravity of the burn depends upon its situation, as well as the depth and extent of the burn.
Burns about the head, the chest or the abdomen are more serious than those of the limbs.
Scalds are due to moist heat?as steam or hot water, while burns are produced by dry heat, such as a flame or hot iron, but in the end the result is the same, a painful injury.
Fortunately the number of deaths from burns is decreasing.
This is due largely to the fact that electricity has replaced the old kerosene lamp.
Burns are so unnecessary, A little more care, a few more precautions about the home may save the child from the agony and the disfigurement due to a bad burn. Too many children have died, or been disfigured for life because someone was careless.
Children must be protected from open fireplaces.
Tubs or kettles of hot water or other hot substance, must not be left within the reach of children who do not realize the danger involved.
Every child is attracted by fire; and a box of matches holds untold wonders for him. The responsibility rests with the parents and in some countries now, it is a punishable offense to leave a child under seven years of age alone in a room with an unprotected fire.
When the clothing is on fire, the best way to extinguish it, is to wrap the person in a blanket and smother the flames. In place of a blanket? a coat, a rug or a piece of carpet may be used. The treatment of burns or scalds depends, naturally, upon the extent and depth of the injury. For the small trivial burns received daily about the home; a tube or jar of standard burn ointment should be found upon every medicine shelf. The proper thing to do is to have a small package of gauze, some clean cotton and a bandage nearby. Cut a pieces of gauge a little larger than the area burned. Next, butter it freely with the ointment, and put it, buttered side down on the burn.
Over the gauze now place a generous layer of cotton. A small bandage will hold the dressing in place.
Dress the burn daily, and always in this same way. In place of the burn ointment, we may use plain vaseline, castor oil, olive oil, or a thick mixture of baking soda. We may use muslin in place of gauze and a cord string to hold the dressing in place, but these we should remember are only substitutes for the proper treatment.
Boric acid ointment and picric acid gauze have their advocates and can be used as a dressing for burns. The severe or extensive burn must always be left to the treatment of the doctor and the hospital. It is important that we remember how to help the patient until the doctor arrives?First, by relieving the pain and treating the shock.
With a severe body burn, a bathtub of warm water, into which a pound of baking soda has been dissolved, will form a haven of rest for the burned individual.
Remove the clothing and put him in immediately.
Paregoric will help relieve the pain, and should always be given. If it is necessary to give stimulants, a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in one-half glass of cold water is very good.
Keep the burned person warm and give him all the fluids he will take. In the beginning, food is not important.
Chemical burns from strong acids, or alkalies, such as carbolic acid or lye, require much washing with warm water.
Running water is best.
These burns are then dressed as ordinary burns or scalds.
WOUNDS
Any break in the skin is called a wound. The skin is the protective covering of the body and any injury that destroys this covering forms an entrance for infection. We have all been surprised at times to see how rapidly a deep and painful cut has healed, on the other hand it has been a matter of great surprise how much trouble could come from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE just a small wound on the finger or hand. Weeks of suffering may follow such a wound and in the end a damaged hand. Stepping on the point of a rusty nail in the summer-time might be a very trivial thing and again it might be a very serious thing. Why are some wounds more serious than others? The answer is GERMS, enemies too small to be seen. If certain germs are introduced beneath the skin and the wound is not properly cleansed, disaster is bound to follow. When the wound bleeds well, and washes the germs out, and others do not get in, there is little pain, and the wound heals rapidly. In the light of present day knowledge we must no longer say, "My blood is out of order, because every little scratch festers so,' or "my wound is very painful because I have taken cold in it." The festering and the cold in the wound mean the presence of germs and the activity of these germs is responsible for the process which we call inflammation. The wise individual is the one who considers all wounds as full of germs, and who does not trust to chance, but cleans each immediately after the accident. We have to deal mainly with three kinds of wounds. First?Incised Wounds; These are due to cuts from glass, knives, etc. They bleed freely, are easily cleansed and as a rule, give very little trouble. Second?Lacerated or Torn Wounds; These are made by blunt instruments, the edges are ragged, they do not bleed so freely, and are more difficult to cleanse from germs and are longer in healing. Third?Punctured Wounds. These are made by the point of an instrument?by nails, ice picks, bullets, etc. The wounds do not bleed, they are impossible to cleanse and are very dangerous.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The best disinfectant to use in the home is the ordinary Tincture of Iodine, diluted one-half with alcohol. The druggist will make up this solution for you and a small bottle will last a long time.
TREATMENT
Do not wash wounds with water. If they have dirt or grease ground in them, cleanse with alcohol, or turpentine. Stop the bleeding. Dry the wound with clean sterile gauze?from a sealed packet. With a little cotton on a toothpick, paint the sides and depth of the wound, using the diluted Iodine mixture. Wait until it drys, and apply the dressing. If no gauze is at hand, scorch a clean white rag and use it as a covering. It is better that no covering at all be used if it cannot be clean. Wounds that are deep, about the face or hands, where scarring may be ungainly, should always be repaired by a physician. The punctured wound is the real problem, because it is so difficult to cleanse. If the wound has been made by a nail, first?squeeze it gently, to promote bleeding. Second?take a toothpick and with a little cotton wound firmly around the end, dip it in the Iodine mixture then follow the course of the nail, and leave a generous supply of the disinfectant in the wound. Third?paint the edges for at least one inch beyond, then wait until it drys. Fourth? apply a clean dressing. If the wound is in the foot, elevate and rest it for a few days, to be sure that no bad results follow. Rusty nails, in the summer-time, especially about the barnyard, are dangerous, because of the "lock jaw germs" they carry. It is best to have the doctor treat the wounds resulting from these nails. Most such wounds require the giving of tetanus antitoxin. It is better to be safe than sorry. Dog bites are punctured wounds and require the same thorough treatment. If the dog be Rabid, professional advice is imperative. The treatment of poisonous snake bites should be immediate and thorough. The fangs of the snake leave two small holes or a punctured wound which must be cauterized. The symptoms of severe pain, swelling about the wound, vomiting, and extreme weakness, develop rapidly. Apply a bandage or handkerchief above the wound?tight enough to prevent the blood flowing back through the veins. With a sharp knife, sterilized, make two cross cut incisions?not more than one-half inch in length?through the wound. These cuts promote bleeding. Apply suction to the wound by the aid of the mouth or suction pump. The bandage, which has been tied above the wound to prevent the poison blood from returning should not be left longer than one hour. Use tincture of Iodine as a final disinfectant. Dry and dress as any other punctured wound.
BRUISES
The Black Eye. This is merely one form of bruise. A handkerchief or towel should, be wrung out of ice water and applied immediately and continuously for one hour. After the first day, if there is extreme discoloration use hot applications. Never use beef steak as a treatment for black eye. Bruises need no attention unless they are painful or very extensive. If the skin is unbroken, there is no danger of infection. Cold applications afford most relief?and ice bags, and rest is always good treatment for bruises. For the treatment of a mashed finger, which is always painful, use RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE cold, running water. Perhaps more important, if the nail is involved, is the application of the dentist's drill, or the circular motion of a pen knife, for the purpose of drilling a small hole in the nail, relieving the pressure caused by the blood under the nail. This procedure relieves the pain almost immediately and may save the nail. When any wound is red or swollen, and throbs with every beat of the heart, towels wrung out of hot Epsom Salts water, and applied, will relieve the pain and the swelling, and also aid in healing. If the wound is discharging pus freely it is well to cover it with a moist dressing ? gauze wrung from boiling water. It is, however, important that the gauze be not contaminated?that it be handled by the edges only. The effective treatment of wounds depends upon thorough and immediate cleansing and the continued applications of clean, sterile, dressings, until the wound has healed.