[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 355 | General Feature | The Home Inside and Out Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm | Mildred Barthel]
[The Home Inside and Out Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Mildred Barthel]

355 May 1967

 Some guests ''couldn't stand' carrots— (At least that's what they'd say)— Until they ate them at our house Cooked in this different way. CARROT CASSEROLE scrape and slice thinly 2 bunches 1% tsp. Salad mustard carrots (about six in each bunch) 2 c. Milk 1%, c. Butter pinch of pepper 1 minced onion 1% Ib. Sharp cheese in thin slices 14 c. Flour 3 c. Buttered fresh bread crumbs 1 tsp. Salt Cook carrots until just tender, in boiling salted water in which sweet basil has been sprinkled. When you drain the carrots, some of the sweet basil will adhere to the cooked carrots. (This is one of the flavor secrets.) Cook onion in butter 2-3 minutes. Stir in flour, salt, mustard, then milk. Add pepper. Cook until thick over medium heat. Layer carrots in 2 qt. Casserole alternately with cheese. Pour sauce over the top then add buttered crumbs. Bake at 350° until bubbly and crumbs are browned. If made ahead and refrigerated, the casserole usually takes 35-40 minutes to heat through thoroughly. Variations: Frozen Lima beans or frozen mixed vegetables may be added to the casserole in various amounts and combinations as desired. Rhubarb, rhubarb, Your tart flavor enhanced With custard sauce I discovered by chance! A RHUBARB CREAM PIE 1 Pastry Recipe Filling 114 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Butter 3 tbsp. Flour 2 well-beaten eggs l%, tsp. Nutmeg 3 c. Cut rhubarb Blend sugar, flour, nutmeg. Cut in butter. Add eggs. Beat until smooth. Pour over rhubarb in 9"' pastry lined pie pan. Bake in hot oven (450°) for 10 minutes, then, in moderate oven (350°) for 30 minutes. 356 Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Delightful is a custard pudding With a chocolate top Baked—and served While still piping hot! PARTY PUDDING Scald 1 qt. Milk. In top of double boiler put 1 c. Sugar and 6 level tbsp. Cornstarch. Mix well. Add 3 egg yolks, pinch salt, and 2 tsp. Vanilla. Mix very well, then add scalded milk gradually. Place over boiling water and stir constantly. When thick, take top of double boiler and cook pudding for a few minutes over direct heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and put in 2 qt. Baking-serving dish. Melt 2 squares bitter chocolate. Whip 3 egg whites and gradually add 14 c. Sugar. Fold in chocolate. Pour meringue over hot pudding and bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Serve hot or warm. Watercress, plucked with gentle care, Snipped into taste-size bits And served with a dare! WATERCRESS SALAD Snip fresh, rinsed watercress into 1" size bits. Cut 2-3 bananas into bite-size pieces. Cut 1 medium onion into very small pieces. Several spring onions may be used. Toss, and keep cold until serving time. (Remember bananas turn dark, if not used immediately after peeling.) Make dressing of 14 c. Sugar 1% c. Cider vinegar yc. Oil Shake well. Add to salad and serve immediately. A DESERT HOME » The poplar trees we planted now are gone, The house itself is but an empty shell, Its windows broken, one door hanging on; No water pours from our artesian well. The saltbrush, arrowweed, and green mesquite Have taken over our small garden plot, And rabbits scamper where one time our feet, Devoid of shoes, would race when sands were hot. Yes, everything is changed, but still I see My mother standing in the dappled shade Her eyes alight with love. This memory, Unlike material things, can never fade. For she, with her working hands, her velvet singing. Had made the desert home in the beginning. Nn @ Enola Chamberlin Cy 357 r) WY, Team, Sew! Helen M. Stock Oh, weary mothers, when you sew Don't you wish that clothes would grow On a pinafore bush or a school-dress tree? Then how happy little girls would be! Team-sewing isn't exactly like picking clothes off a tree, but it is the next best thing. When two women work together in the spirit of an old-fashioned quilting-bee, little clothes almost seem to roll off the sewing machine and _ ironing board. Two or more dresses can be completed in the same time it takes a lone woman to make one dress. When the team becomes efficient, as many as four little dresses can be finished in a day's time. Women who have tried working together say, "Sewing with someone else makes the day so pleasant, and we get so much more done." It is one answer to the budget-minded woman who wants her children welldressed. How is team sewing done? Two women plan to work together (neighbors, or perhaps a mother and daughter). One team member keeps the sewing machine humming as she moves the fabric under the needle in a continuous process. 358 The second team member clips threads, presses, trims, pins, and stacks the prepared pieces for the first worker to continue sewing. Team-sewing is easiest for children's clothing, because their garments are usually so simple and need little fitting. However, adult clothes could be made by the same method. For speedy work, select a pattern that can be used a number of times, yet be modified to make each dress look freshly different from the others by changing collar shapes, belts, or sleeve lengths. (The pattern companies show 'a number of these dresses, with suggestions for changes. ) Get the materials that have the same background color so that one thread can be used for all the dresses. To simplify cutting, buy fabrics of the same width. Touches of hand decoration on collars and cuffs may be added by even the busiest of mothers, but leave the long, hand-finished seams and the yards of embroidery or smocking for a doting grandmother or favorite aunt to make. Of course, the pattern is altered. To fit the child before cutting. First, take the measurement from the shoulder point to shoulder point, and make this correction. Then, because most children are growing up, not out, correct the waist length. Cutting two or three dresses at one time is a simple timesaver. If the pattern is laid on a center fold, have all the center folds of fabric pinned exactly together and pin the pattern according to the pattern guide. For the sake of accuracy, it is not advisable to cut more than three dresses at one time. Sharp scissors will cut through four or six layers of fabric, but if the scissors are not sharp enough to cut through so much material, cut the top dress first, then the second one, and finish with the last dress. You have saved time by pinning the pattern once.

Arrange the sewing equipment in this manner: (1) Pieces cut and stacked in the order of construction. Sewing machine Ironing board Pieces that have been pressed and are ready for the second sewing process. A. Worker at machine B. Worker at ironing board.