[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 4 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]

FIRST PRIZE POEM

THE NAVAJO RUG
Barbara J. Warren

Like pieces of fallen cloud, the sheep are scattered on the hillside.
In the summer's hot wind and the winter's cold, the woman herds them.
To the hills in the day, to the corral at night,
To fresh grass and water she herds them.
The rug begins in Strength.

A storm drapes itself around the mountain. The sheep are restless. They scatter.
The woman tries to gather them. She cannot.
She kneels in the dust of the land to pray. The sheep come together.
To the rug is added Faith.

The sheep are sheared. The wool stands in fat bags against the hogan wall.
Now the carding begins. Short, quick strokes. Fibers straight. Dirt combed out.
Now the spinning begins. Turning, turning, turning, turning of the spindle
While knowing fingers pull the wool into a strong, straight thread.
Now the washing begins; now the dyeing begins.
Into the rug goes Patience.

The rug grows slowly on the loom.
Its design, unwritten, has gathered itself in the mind of one
Who has long looked out upon the land
And seen its ever-changing colors and patterns.
The rug is woven in Beauty.

The way to the trading post is long.
And when the woman gets there, what will she buy?
Lengths of sateen and velvet that shine like shimmering jewels on the shelf?
New dishes, a cooking pot—hers is so old.
No. This and this and — yes — this for her children.
And this and this for her man.
For herself, not a thing.
The rug is finished in Love.

The woman is gone. You come to buy. The price is too much?
No, my friend. Not for this rug. Not for what is in it.
All that the woman is, is in this rug.
All she thinks, all she believes, all her skills, all she dreams of and hopes for
Have been woven into one in this rug.
And for all this, the price is never too much. Because you see, my friend,
The rug is the Woman.

20

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Barbara
Warren

First Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Poem Contest

Barbara Warren, a young newcomer to the pages of the Relief Society Magazine, writes from her present home in Lukachukai, Arizona, sketching highlights of her life and work:

"I was born in Missoula, Montana, and lived there until graduation from Brigham Young University, when I began teaching in a Government boarding school on the Navajo Reservation. After three years, I resigned to fulfill a Southwest Indian mission. On completion of the mission, I taught a year in Springville, Utah, where my parents now live, and returned this year to Lukachukai to teach a class of non-English speaking Indian children. I am Chinle District Primary president and hold several positions in the small Lukachukai Branch.

"With the exception of a story published in my high school literary magazine, this is the first of my work that has been published. I write when I feel deeply about a subject. During my time spent among the Lamanite people, I had many opportunities to observe the making of the Navajo rugs. The fine qualities of the women who used all their skills and talents to provide for their families gave me the inspiration and desire to write this poem."

21

SECOND PRIZE POEM

TO THE GRAND TETON
Alice Morrey Bailey

I

I have seen your head in purple storm,
Serene, unpierced by lightning's rapier twist,
Impervious to thunderbolt, your form
Ethereal or bold in moving mist.
At day, a monarch, ruling—jewel-crowned
And virgin-peaked, lake-mirrored gray and blue—
A kingdom of contented sight and sound—
The legioned pines, the moose-cow in the slue.

No fear is on this land, yet at your feet,
Thin-covered by the earth's uncertain crust,
Unfathomed forces lie and spout their heat
In geysered vent and deep, infernal thrust.
And now, moon-bathed, your splendor glows with light
In opal-fired and iridescent night.

II

On such a silver night as this a quake
Exploded Hebgen's summer-shadowed floor
And slid a mountain's tonnage, tipped a lake
And stopped a river—stilled forevermore
The laughter in the trees, the soft guitar,
The scurryings where dust alone was breath,
And here in testament a livid scar
And fissured earth remain—and death.

The cruel scarp along the mountain's length,
The drowning trees, the shore, betray the fault
Which undermined the valley's rock-ribbed strength—
When all seemed peace—in ruinous assault.
And where are they who trusted in its calm,
Nor read the printed warning in its palm?

III

If, suddenly, the force which gave you birth
Erupts its epicenter at your base,
Withstand the throes of inner-tortured earth,
Meet threat with strength along your granite face,
Travail with triumph. Ride the heaving crest.
Let avalanche but serve to shore your beams,
Survive as elk survive the antlered test.
Let molten rock be solder for your seams.

For you are symboled part of balanced law—
No stature unassailed is proven might—
Point and counterpoint; perfection, flaw.
If still you stand as now in noble height
When winds have swept the dark, volcanic cloud,
I shall be full of joy. I shall be proud!

22

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Alice
Morrey
Bailey

Second Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Poem Contest

Alice Morrey Bailey, a versatile and gifted writer and sculptor, has been a repeated winner in the Relief Society literary contests. She won first prize in the short story contest the year of its initiation, 1942, and has won three times in subsequent years. This year's award in poetry places Mrs. Bailey as a winner for the sixth time. Other poems, many of them frontispieces, as well as stories, articles, and three serials have appeared in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Sonneteers (a poetry workshop), the Utah State Poetry Society, Inc., of which she is presently corresponding secretary, the League of Utah Writers, and the Associated Utah Artists. She was a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts for fourteen years, appointed by three successive governors to represent sculpture, and was prominent in formulating the Original Writing Contests now sponsored by the group. She is listed in Who's Who of the West.

Her talents and abilities, in addition to her writing, include sculpture, music, secretarial work, and drafting. She presently conducts the Research Report Service at the University of Utah, where she has worked in various capacities for seventeen years.

Mrs. Bailey has always been active in Church work, and is presently a member of the Wells Stake Sunday School Board. She is also a class leader in a second session Relief Society, and a member of the Ward Finance Committee (Whittier Ward).

She is the wife of R. DeWitt Bailey, and they have three children, fourteen grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.

23
