[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 321 | Article | Well of Peace | Peggy Tangren]
The Relief Society Magazine - May 1967, Vol. 54, No. 5 Well of Peace Peggy Tangren The Cover: In the Solitudes, Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Harold M.

Lambert Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: [Not specified in document] Illustrations: Mary Scopes From Near and Far Out of our little golden book each month have come to me wisdom and strength in guiding our family to adulthood, and I am pleased at the interest displayed by all our seven girls and seven daughters-in-law in Relief Society work, now they have homes and families of their own. Irene T. Fletcher Utah 1966 Mother of the Year Logan, Utah I have received with a great deal of happiness The Relief Society Magazine printed in my native tongue. It is a source of great inspiration to me, because of its messages, lessons, and poetry. It is truly an inspiration to receive the lovely words in my tongue. Angela Lopez Semi, California I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When this inspiring messenger comes to our home, I pick it up immediately and begin reading it. I read nearly all the articles, and I enjoy the lesson material. I have used selections from the Magazine in presentations I have made when I have visited wards as a member of the stake high council. I definitely feel that every home in the Church should have the Magazine in it. I cannot see how a mother, young or older, can effectively function in the Relief Society program without the Magazine. We love it and appreciate its blessings in our home. Levern M. Hansen Los Angeles, California I treasure each issue of the Magazine, for its beautiful pictures, poems, articles, stories, and recipes. In the October issue, I especially enjoyed the story "The Good Samaritan" by Becky Dawn Wood. Marjorie Schmidt Paso Robles, California I am a missionary in the Canadian Mission. My companion and I have just come home for the night, and for an "end-of-the-day" treat picked up the January 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and have just finished reading "For Barbara With Love," first prize story by Evelyn Vesterfelt. I wish I could express the feeling I had upon reading this story. I can hardly wait to go tracting tomorrow perhaps there is another "Barbara" waiting for us. We love to order the Magazine as a baptismal gift for sisters coming into the Church, and the missionaries find the Magazine a great tool in their work, for it gives the investigators a beautiful insight into the scope of the Church. Linda Marx Ottawa, Ontario Canada The Relief Society Magazine has been such a blessing in our home. I am of Jewish background, and I pray that in the near future to be baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, along with my family. I have a strong and wonderful testimony of the gospel, which grows with every passing day. Mrs. Albert Molling San Jose, California We receive so much vital information and inspiration from our wonderful Magazine. Every page is important. Now we are thrilled and delighted to share with other readers the beautiful work of our ward member Alda L. Brown, who has given so much of her time and talents to our ward Relief Society. We know all who read her poetry will find thoughts of great beauty and value. Lucy H. Spackman, Leah B. Skidmore, and Mary J. Hill Relief Society Presidency Richmond, Utah Sunflowers, Dorothy J. Roberts 386; Bequest, Linnie Fisher Robinson 386; Of the Dark Seed of Joseph, Verna S. Carter 397. These Things Endure Alice Colton Smith Assistant Professor of Soctology, Utah State University. Logan, Utah Membher. General Board of Relief Society ¢ The afternoon sun was mellow hot. Its warmth sent waves of pleasure down my back and bathed the whole world in wellbeing. The horse tossed his head impatiently for a moment and sent the flies buzzing. Then, he returned to cropping the early grass on the ditch bank. I was suspended in a sensation of perfect, low-keyed happiness. There I was on such a perfect, late spring afternoon listening to the two women I loved best, my grandmother and my mother. I wanted time to stand still. My grandmother, her gray hair in a knot on top of her head, 324 sat in her buggy while my mother and I leaned on the garden gate. Although I was not yet eight, I stored in the never-to-be-forgotten area of memory in my brain, those things about which they spoke. 'You are an angel of mercy," my mother said. I looked up. Grandmother's face was wrinkled and her hands were rough from hard work. She an angel? "Oh, pshaw," she said modestly, but at the same time smiled with pleasure. Silently, I had agreed with my mother. I couldn't imagine an angel more beautiful. Enraptured, I followed the story of heroism that my grand- _ mother unfolded. She would not become famous and_ world-renowned because of it, but it lodged unforgettably in onesmall girl's heart. Illness in the middle ~ of the night, a knock at the door in the early morn before the cock crowed, a plea of anguish, a horse and buggy hitched together by lantern light, a ride through the wind and sleet, the soothing voice of hope and rescue, the calming presence—an angel of mercy in a land without hospitals and doctors. There followed tales of babies delivered, of feverish children nursed to health, and of sad times when old friends were laid to rest. This pattern of compassion was etched into my soul that faraway afternoon. Except for that one sentence of commendation, there were no more words of praise given, I think, or expected. The experiences were told as concern for friends and neighbors, what anyone would do under similar circumstances. She loved those people, and they loved her. Was there more to be said? Arm in my life, as my mother often remembered her crippled, nearly bedfast, unmarried friend and always sent her a Christmas dinner; or asked us each fall, as school started, to share our clothes with those less fortunate, the early lesson was reinforced. I do not remember any formal lessons given about the fact that all men are brothers, that each one is his brother's keeper, but I knew about love at an early age, about love and love of one's fellow men. It was a way of life.