[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 374 | Special Feature | Marianne | C. Sharp]

**Magazine Honor Roll for 1966**

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

[ILLUSTRATION: Simple line drawing showing what appears to be a table or desk with some objects on it]

♦ As Relief Society grows among the daughters of Zion, The Relief Society Magazine spreads its great spiritual heritage to an ever-increasing readership. Subscriptions in 1966 making a total of 252,902 subscriptions. The year 1966 is also a notable one in the history of The Relief Society Magazine for another reason. On December 31, there were 5,590 subscribers. Many letters are received at the office of the General Board from Spanish-speaking sisters of South America, Central America, Mexico, and the Philippines express-ing their joy and gratitude for the spiritual inspiration of any other language, except English. The grand total of Relief Society subscriptions at the conclusion of 1966 is 258,452.

The large subscription to the Relief Society Magazine is an indication of the excellent subscription work done by the sisters, concerned with the presidents and the presidents, and the Relief Society organizations give much effective work in promoting and binding the worldwide sister-hood.

To Relief Society Magazine Sister—

Dear Sisters:
This is my last order for the Magazine. After twenty years and eight months, I have to give this privilege to a younger sister as I am so crippled I cannot help myself. I have to depend on the other sisters to do my walking for me, and it is too much for the sisters to handle them as I am not able to get to the stake meetings.

Had I had this privilege and will do all I can to get the dear sister who will take my place February 27th I will have my 81st birthday and cannot get around to contact the sisters as I should. It makes me feel very sad gratefully to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has given me, I am grateful to the many friends I have, both old and young...

Sincerely,
Sister Frances Kolark

The calling of a Magazine representative requires dynamic and un-tiring commitment to achieve real success. She is enthusiastic over the worth of the Magazine, content. She seeks out the Latter-day Saint women, and is persistent in presenting its value to them, selling it will be better prepared to fulfill her great functions as a woman and as a Relief Society worker.

Heartfelt appreciation of the General Board goes to all those who have labored faithfully in this important work. To accomplish this objective the General Board stakes on the Honor Roll, and 180 having 100 per cent or more subscriptions. Twenty-four missions were on the Honor Roll, and four missions achieved 100 per cent, or more. For the Stakes (outside Continental United States Mission was highest, with 110 per cent.

The General Board extends to my faithful, devoted Magazine representatives throughout Relief Society organizations its heartfelt thanks and appreciation for their untired efforts and their outstanding achievement.

The spirit of Magazine representatives is exemplified by this letter:

To Relief Society Magazine Sister—

Dear Sisters:
This is my last order for the Magazine. After twenty years and eight months, I have to give this privilege to a younger sister as I am so crippled I cannot help myself. I have to depend on the other sisters to do my walking for me, and it is too much for the sisters to handle them as I am not able to get to the stake meetings.

Had I had this privilege and will do all I can to get the dear sister who will take my place February 27th I will have my 81st birthday and cannot get around to contact the sisters as I should. It makes me feel very sad gratefully to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has given me, I am grateful to the many friends I have, both old and young...

374
