		    EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE have received for publication minutes of
quarterly conferences of the Relief Society from
Tooele, St. Joseph, Bear Lake, San Juan and

[Column Two]

Bannock Stakes, which will appear hereafter in
the order of the dates.
	The Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference. By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake.
	The Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the April
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March. Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them. It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending. Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 137 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	The Women of Utah throughout the Territory
should read the minutes, etc., of the Woman
Suffrage meeting, held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, recently, and prepare for local organization
in each county at an early date. The National
Enrollment, too, should be continued,and effective
work done, in making preparations for statehood
and the suffrage. Women cannot be too well
informed upon political and governmental matters,
as the laws of the land are made and enforced as
as much in their behalf as that of the male popu-
lation of the country. Sixty yards of the National
Enrollment has already been sent to head-
quarters; the papers contained the names of
8,393 men and women. Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
delegate from Utah to the Convention of the N.
W. S. A. at Washington, was the bearer of these
papers.	
	The Christmas number of Zion's Home
Monthly is full of good reading matter. A cut as
Frontispiece portrays a winter scene. “The
Christmas Angels,” by Silverpen, is a prettily told
story. There are several original poems, one by
Lula, “I Want to be Close to You,” is a perfect
gem; “Beside the Garden Gate,” Sian, is sug-
gestive to young lovers, and “A Love Song” is in
fact what its title indicates; “The Growth of
Zion,” by Sian, differs in style from the other
poems in the number, but is expressive of its sub-
ject, and of “the gathering,” as predicted by the
prophets and fully embodies the quotation used,
“Give us room that that we may dwell;” “A Bir-
mingham Christmas Carol” and “Christmas Bells,”
are appropriate for the time of year, and call up
pleasant associations; “Mamma” is very tender
and sentimental; “What Does it Matter” is quite
a meritorious production, and the little recitative
poem, “No,” would be a good selection for the
Primary children; “Less Than Cost” is a select-
tion from the writings of Mrs. M. A. Kidder, and
contains sound advice. The great variety of
prose articles, original and selected, cannot fail to
please those who are fond of good reading. “An
Explanation” in the editorial column, defines the
position taken by the editor, and gives the reader
an idea of his motives and expectations. It is
true that we, as a people, should seek to promote
a desire for home literature of the very best
quality. There is a wide field opening for it, and
there is plenty of material for themes, in fact the
unexplored storehouse of home literature is inex-
haustible.


