CONSTITUTION.
	ART. 1. This organization shall be called
the National Woman Suffrage Association.
	ART. 2. The object of this Association shall
be to secure national protection for women in
the exercise of their citizen's right to vote.
	ART. 3. All citizens of the United States
subscribing to this Constitution, and contribut-
ing not less than one dollar annually, shall be
considered members of this Association.
	ART. 4. The officers of this Association


[Column 1]

﻿shall be a president, vice-president from each
of the states and territories, corresponding and
recording secretaries, a treasurer, and an exe-
cutive committee of not less than five.
	ART. 5. A quorum of the executive com-
mittee shall consist of nine, and all officers of
this Association shall be exofficio members of
this committee, with power to vote.
	ART. 6. All woman suffrage societies
throughout the country shall be welcomed as
auxiliaries, and their accredited officers or duly
appointed representatives shall be recognized as
members of the National Association.
	Chairman: "You have heard the Constitution
of the N. W. S. A., what is the pleasure of
the meeting?" Mrs. Alder: "I move it be
adopted." This motion was seconded by a large
number of ladies present, and the  Constitu-
tion was adopted.
	Chairman suggested that some one nominate a
Committee on By-Laws. Mrs. Dougall moved
that the Chairman appoint the Committee.
Chairman appointed Mrs. Lottie Young, Mrs.
Julia C. Taylor, Edith Knowlton, Committee
on By-Laws. Committee retired.
	While the Committee were out Mrs. C. I.
Kirby addressed the audience. She spoke of
the advantages to be derived from woman
suffrage, and presented some of her views and
the information she had obtained at home and
abroad in regard to woman's work and influence.
When Mrs. Kirby concluded, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards was called for, but declined; and Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young responded to her name, and
addressed the meeting. Her speech was elo-
quent and pathetic; she appealed to the heart:
her subject was, "Woman and Motherhood,"
and her ideas were so gracefully conveyed, that
every heart was touched in a tender place.
	The Committee came in and reported, and
Mrs. Julia C. Taylor read the "By-Laws and
Regulations." After the reading some one
moved that they be read and voted upon separ-
ately. The Secretary read as requested, and
the By-Laws and Regulations were adopted
separately. The following is a copy:

