AT THE RANCHE.

I write you as one in my Christmas letter,
As in life you have been for worse or for better;
God grant that the worst has all gone bye,
That "the better 'twill be in the year drawing nigh.
'Tis the birthday of Jesus, sweet peace to the soul
He can give, though dark billows may over us roll,
Let us thank Him for all of His mercy and love,
And pray He may guide us still onward above.
The past year brought shadow, but, too, it brought light,
The gleams of the morning still follow the night.
'Twas hard when another was called from the fold,
When the eold earth claimed our Mattie to hold;
But we all know she's called back unto God,
'Tis only the casket that sleeps 'neath the sod.
Close, close by her mother, whose last earthly care,
Was for the frail Mattie who needed her care,
Again can I hear her wild, pitiful cry,
"Oh, God! I can't live if my mother should die."
Don't think I am sorrowful, no, when I think
Of the joining again of that severed link,
I forget our own loss, our sorrow and pain,
When I know unto them 'tis an eternal gain;
I will not turn back the leaves of the past.
The light and the shadow over them cast,
For we have shared them all together,
The stormy and the pleasant weather.
I am thinking now of the children all,
With a loving wish for both large and small;
Johnie, the first of our precious band,
Born upon Zion's favored land,
Unto her colors be firm and true,
And the crown of the victor awaiteth you.
I cannot speak of them all apart,
But each hath a place in my inmost heart;
There's Belle and Nettie, and Minnie dear,
Have helped to brighten my pathway here.
Soon again may we have our Christmas tree
All together, and—let me see—
Let us appoint our committee here,
To take the lead in our reunion cheer—
Mamie and Susie, Jen and Fan
(You may find a better one if you can),
With the two Johns and Vaughan, that's seven,
Or had we not better have eleven?
For Georgie and Lucy, Alex and Sam


Will have to look out for a Juvenile Jam,
For there'll be a troop of them, little and big;
All tumbling and jumping or dancing a jig.
There's all of Sam's, with young Sam at the head,
Propitious all of the "trundle bed,"
With Belle's and Nettie's, and how many more
Are coming along from the heavenly shore?
And all the homeless, you know are mine,
There'll be quite a few of them to dine!
Minnie and Belle the two shall be
To receive our guests to the Christmas tree;
And Nettie shall sing,
	"Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,
		Holy angels guard thy bed;
	Heavenly blessings without number,
		Gently falling on thy head."
			S. E. R.
Dec. 25th, 1888.


