PLEASANT PARTY.

	A number of the officers of the Primary
Associations of Davis Stake met at the resi-
dence of Sister Aurelia S. Rogers, at Farming-
ton, Dec. 28,1888, to manifest their apprecia-
tion of her past labors, in the form of a sur-
prise, she having been confined to her bed for
nearly six weeks.
	Her First Counselor, Sister Julia Hess, was
unanimously chosen to take charge of the
exercises, which consisted of remarks from all
the sisters present, and songs from the Prim-
ary Hymn Book; also an original poem was
rendered by the author, Counselor Lucy A.
Clark.
	After listening to many expressions of affec-
tion and words of encouragement from the sis-
ters, Sister Rogers sat up in her bed and though,
very weak, said words could not express her
gratitude to the sisters who had come to see
her, for she would never forget it; though there
were some of the presidents absent, yet she
thought of them all, and all seemed as dear to
her as her own sisters. She cherished the love
and good wishes of the sisters more than gold
or silver. During her sickness she had been
near the “other side,” but thought that if God
would spare her longer she would serve Him
better. Feared that we allowed our minds to
dwell more on the things of this world than on
the things of God, which is not right; knew she
would be better. She blessed the sisters in all
their outgoings and incomings, and invoked
the blessings of God upon all His chosen ones.
The Primary hymn, “Nay, speak no ill,” was
sang, after which her Counselors presented her
with a beautiful plush wrap, bought by the
Primaries of the Stake, which was received
with gratitude unspeakable. The sisters then
sung, “The Spirit of God like a fire is burn-
ing,” and then the tables were spread, and
about twenty-five persons, including the Presi-
dency of the Stake, the Bishop and Counselors
and a number of brethren who were invited in
after the priesthood meeting, partook of a
bounteous repast, after which the brethren ad-
ministered to Sister Rogers, and then dispersed
to their several homes, feeling that it was good
to have been there.
		ANNA S. ROCKWOOD,
		KATE M. CHASE,
		ELIZABETH G. FORD, Committee.
		WEALTHY R. CLARK, Secretary.


Another meeting was held last week to pro-
mote the return of women as county council-
lors. The devoted ladies who are going to
make victims of themselves and test the eligi-
bility of women as candidates, are Margaret
Lady Sandhurst and Miss Jane Cobden, for
London, and Mrs. Massingberd, for the Lind-
say division of Lincolnshire. Both the two
first named ladies addressed the meeting at St.
James’s Hall on Saturday. The audience
was largely composed of ladies. The chair-
man, Mr. Channing, M. P., advised all lady
candidates to persist in their candidature, as
he believed that the first rejected nomination
would be the surest way of getting rid of the
barrier that some said existed.— Westminster
and Lambeth Gazette.


