RECEPTION AT DEVEREUX HOUSE.

	"But happy they, the happiest of their kind,
	     Whom gentle stars unite, and in one fate
	Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings blend."
* 	  *	    *	      *	  *	    *	      *	*		
					What is the world to them
	"Its pomp, its pleasure, and its nonsense all,
	      Who in each other clasp whatever fair,
	High fancy forms, and lavish hearts can wish?"

     On Wednesday evening, January 9th, 1889, a 
wedding reception was given at the Devereux
House in this city, the occasion being the marriage
of two of the daughters of Mrs. William Jennings.
Miss Emma L. Jennings and Hon. J. E. Carlisle,
of Logan, Editor of the Utah Jaurnal of that 
place, were married in Logan on the third inst,
and Miss Maye C. Jennings and Mr. J. B. Farlowe,
of this city, were married the evening of the re-
ception, at Devereux House.  Judge Sanford per-
formed the ceremony at 6:30 p.m.  The reception
given in honor of the two young ladies was a
magnificent affair.  The beautiful and spacious
grounds were brilliantly lighted, indicating the
joy and festivity within, and the house itself was
fairly ablaze with light and beauty.  A band of
music was constantly playing in the upper hall,
which added much to the enchantment of the en-
tertainment.
     Hundreds of guests were present, all anxious
to pay their respects to the hostess and to con-
gratulate the newly wedded brides and bride-
grooms.  The house was decorated artistically
with fresh flowers and vines from their own con-
servatory, and the fresh blown roses and the
orange blossoms made the atmosphere of the
rooms fragrant with their sweet perfume, besides
adding greatly to the delight of the guests.
     The presents were far too numerous to be
separately mentioned, and we must therefore only
say they were sufficiently beautiful to satisfy the
most capricious young lady, and evidently the
new-made brides had many friends anxious to ex-
press their love and appreciation at this auspicious
time.
     The dresses of the two brides were in exquisite
taste and very becoming, although it is sometimes
said brides always look sweet, yet we are pre-
pared to testify Mrs. Carlisle and Mrs. Farlowe

[column 2]
certainly did look not only radiant in their bridal
attire, but the picture of ineffable happiness.
     The elegant parlors were filled with ladies and
gentlemen, who, after offering their congratula-
tions and good wishes, were seen talking in
groups here and there, and all seemingly enjoying
the happy moments as they flew.  The dining hall
was fitted up like a tropical bower, and beautifully
lighted with chandeliers, and the glitter of silver
and exquisite china and the tempting viands
cannot be described in words, but one might with
all propriety say,

"And the tables they groaned with the weight of the feast,
Nor yet had the laughter and merriment ceased."

     The party was a happy affair and a genuine
success, but the mother just about to part with her
daughters from their childhood's home wore a
very sober face.  Mr. and Mrs. Farlowe bade
adieu to the family and guests about nine p.m. and
departed for the West on their bridal tour.  Guests
were coming and going until a late hour, and it
was midnight ere the entertainment was over.
     The EXPONENT tenders its most sincere con-
gratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Carlisle and to Mr. 
and Mrs. Farlowe on the occasion of their mar-
riage, and wishes for them,

	"The path of peace and holy love;
	      May life continued joys renew;
	May hope not too deceptive prove;—
 	      May sweet contentment round them throw
	      Such bliss as may be found below!"


