			BOX ELDER STAKE. 
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 11th of 
December, at 10 o'clock a.m.  Singing, "Sweet
is the work, my God, my King." Prayer by 
Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing, "O, say, 
what is truth?" Minutes read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow made some opening re-
marks; said, "I feel, myself, that the Relief So-
ciety is a very important organization; there are 
many duties to perform; we should improve and
strive to fulfill all our labors, that we may be 
a blessing in Zion; in doing good, in exercising
our minds and intellects, we will be more capa-
ble of accomplishing good." Prayed that we 
might be all blest this day in coming together. 
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker: "I know the Lord
is with us; we feel a desire to be one in the 
kingdom of God. I know the Lord is able to 
bless us in bearing our trials."
	Prest. Meecham: "I am thankful this morn-
ing that I have been counted worthy to be one
among the Latter-day Saints."
	Prest. Harper: "I know this is the work of 
God; we must try to live our religion."
	Prest. Watkins, Fourth Ward: "We should
pray for each other, particularly so in sickness
or trouble; we should rejoice for the blessing of 
health."
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth: "In performing
our duties we must exert ourselves. It builds
me up to meet with my sisters. We should
find some time to read good books and the his-
tory of this Church. We ought to appreciate
and attend these conferences, while we enjoy
this privilege. I have no other desire than to 
be faithful by the help of the Lord."
	Prest Mary Jensen: "In looking around we 
see that no one can stand still in the kingdom 
of God; we should be very careful what we say
about one another."
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "God has given us
the greatest of all gifts, the light of the Gos-
pel. All clouds have a silver lining. We 
must restrain our young people in their pleasure
seeking, provide proper amusement for them. 
Let us watch our little ones; fearful crimes, 
secret sins are creeping in among our child-
ren."
	Adjourned till 2 o'clock. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Harriet Hunsaker. 
	Afternoon session: Singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer by Bishop
Nichols. Singing, "Should you feel inclined
to censure."
	Prest. Mary E. Snow: "We have a faithful
band of sisters in our ward." Explained how 
they had been blest in their labors in doing
good. 
	Emilia D. Madsen: "Unless the Lord will
give me a few words to say, I shall not be able 
to say anything that will comfort or benefit
anyone." Referred to our great responsibili-
ties and the blessings we enjoy, the comfort we
receive from associating together, to improve
every opportunity for good. "These are our
true talents; do unto others as we would like


[Column 1]

to be done by; seek for the spirit of the Lord,
that it may dwell in our hearts at all times, for
without it we will stumble and be unable to
fulfill our duties."
	Sister Jensen, from Bear River City, reported
that branch, the Prest. not being able to attend.
	Sister Harding: "Sometimes I ask the ques-
tion, do I realize the great blessings I enjoy?"
Referred to the apostacy of her mother; thought
it had been a stimulant to her. "Our enemies
cannot harm us, but we ourselves may go so
low that we cannot redeem ourselves."
	Sister Cook: "I know this is the kingdom
of God; our lives are made up of little deeds;
I believe if we do that which is not pleasing
in the sight of the Lord, it will be like a blot
on a blank piece of paper; let us strive to
realize and live up to our privileges."
	Sister Susannah Facer: "I think it is the
greatest blessing that we have trials, because it
brings out all that is bright in us, makes us
more useful, and prepares us for the reward of
the faithful. I have learned a great deal
through this persecution; it wakes us up to be
more diligent; every morning we should ask
our Heavenly Father to keep us in that narrow
path; we will not do a great deal wrong but
that small voice will whisper and tell us
whether our thoughts or actions are wicked. I
pray I may always feel the kingdom of God is
foremost in my mind."
	Coun. C. Kelley: "I have enjoyed this con-
ference very much. It may seem to you that
you do not accomplish a great deal, but if all
the good accomplished by the Relief Society
through the world was reported, it would show
a great work; but you have other duties, that
you may understand your position in connec-
tion with the priesthood. 'The man is not
without the woman nor the woman without the
man, in the Lord.' Show me a sister who
takes the counsel of prayer, and you will not
see many of her sons go astray; there is a love
in a mother's heart that would shield a boy
under all circumstances, but sometimes it is
misused." Spoke of the miseries and wicked-
ness in London; read some startling statistics
of the visitors to saloons in that city. "Thank
God we have not this in Zion, but we have
those in our midst who work for this end."
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "We should all strive
to attend these meetings for the good and the
growth of the wisdom and power of the sisters
in this Stake. Exercise meekness and love
one to another; exercise the principle of peace
and confidence; exercise faith and be prayerful;
beware of fault-finding, it leads downward.
May the Lord bless you, enlighten your minds,
quicken your understanding."
	Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Coun. Olivia Wider-
borg. Adjourned for three months.
