CLARA D. YOUNG.

"Weep not that her trials are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like hers
	is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."

	It is seldom that one passes to her rest about
whom such a peacefulness lingered, and such a
sweet resignation overshadowed, as the sister
whose death we now with loving remembrance
record. We knew her in her youth, when all the
charms of early budding womanhood were just
springing into life, and from that time onward saw
her frequently, and was associated with her in
many of the scenes and events that have transpired
in the history of the women of this people.
	Although, as others have written before me, she
was of a reticent and retiring disposition, yet the
circumstances of her life brought her into public
notice. The very fact of her having married
Brigham Young, certainly one of the greatest
men of his time, and who made such a mark in
the world that all those connected with him are,
more or less, partakers of his fame, when in her
early girlhood, and her being one of the three
pioneer women who crossed the plains in '47, be-
fore any road had been marked out, or spot desig-
nated as a place of rest for the weary pilgrims,
these two events in her life history have immor-
talized her name, without any desire for fame or
celebrity on her own part. A great writer and 
poet once said, "Some people aspire to greatness
and some have it thrust upon them," and with
Sister Clara it was certainly unsought, but who
shall say it was not her destiny, marked out be-
forehand? Assuredly not the writer of this sim-
ple tribute to her memory. That she bore her
honors gracefully and without any affectation, all
her friends realize; and also that she shrank from
any mention of her name or any public demonstra-
tion of respect, even upon occasions when it was
positively a favor to the people for her to accept a
place of honor.
	Her home-life was beautiful under all conditions;


[Column 1]

she was sweet-mannered, gentle, patient and for-
bearing, and possessed in an eminent degree the
"charity that thinketh no evil." This characteris-
tic made her specially dear to many, and in all the
tender and sweet amenities of domestic life, her
example is of the highest order of excellence.
As a mother she was all that the word implies in
its best and highest sense, not only to the child-
ren God had given to her, but to those whose lot
was cast with hers, deprived by death of their own
mother. She left no duty unperformed for them
that their own mother could have done, and aside
from duty her love was as precious and as freely
given to the orphaned ones as to her own, as far
as human eyes could see. Her generosity to the
needy was well-known to her friends, though she
gave without the least shadow of ostentation, and
in the language of the Scripture, let not the left
hand know what her right hand was doing. Many
of the poor and the unfortunate will miss her
kindly deeds and words of comfort, for she was
verily a "friend in need" and "a friend indeed."
Her life is thickly sown with good seeds, that
must yield an abundant harvest in the time to
come, and she will assuredly reap a rich reward
from the fruits of her labors here below. It is
impossible to mourn long for such an one.

"So He calls them in from their labors, ere the shadows
	round them creep,
And silently watching o'er them, He giveth His loved ones
	sleep."

	And thus Sister Clara fell asleep, for it was only
like a gentle slumber; she looked the very picture
of repose and tranquility as she lay in her soft
flowing robes in the casket that only held that
which was mortal, for the pure spirit, freed from
its earthly tabernacle, had gone to join the beloved
ones behind the vail—husband and children,
father and mother, and many relatives and friends,
and the great rejoicing at her coming was doubt-
less more than equal to the sorrow for her depar-
ture from the loved ones here.
	Clara Decker Young departed this life about
four o'clock in the afternoon of January 5th, 1889.
Her death was quiet and undisturbed by any of
those dreadful paroxysms of pain that are so
shocking and terrible to those who are near and
dear, and can never after be effaced from the
memory. She fell asleep, as it were, and so
passed almost unconsciously away. Her illness
did not seem dangerous until the last two days
before her demise, and indeed it was not thought
necessary to send for her daughter who was
absent from home, until that time. But the crisis
was very near, and after receiving the dispatch
that told her of her mother's illness, she hastened
with all possible speed from Portland, whither she
had gone, but it was too late, the news of her
mother's death reached her upon her journey
homeward, but with the courage that often comes
with the deepest grief, she bore up wonderfully,
though the shock must have been very heavy, for
she had left her in her usual health, and with
every expectation of their meeting again in a very
short time.
	Mrs. Young was the daughter of Isaac and
Harriet Page Decker, and was born July 22nd,
1828, in Freedom, Cataraugas County, New York.
Her father's family moved to Ohio, Portage Co.,
in 1833, and in 1834 became members of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bro.
and Sister Decker with their family gathered with
the Saints in Kirtland in 1837, and have ever since
remained with the body of the Church. Sister
Clara accompanied the family of Joseph Smith
the Prophet to Missouri in 1838, and was among
those who were compelled to leave that state on 
account of their religious faith. In 1841 she
came to Nauvoo, having previously lived in Win-
chester and in Warsaw in the State of Illinois,
after leaving Missouri, In the month of May,
1843, she was married to Brigham Young, and

[Column 2]

with him was an exile from Nauvoo, coming out in
the dead of winter to travel an unknown country,
and to share the trials and vicissitudes of a pil-
grimage to the wilderness. When Brigham
Young at the head of that famous pioneer com-
pany set out to find an abiding place for the peo-
ple who were exiles from home, Sister Clara
accompanied him, and was one of the first to tread
the soil of this mountain vale. When President
Young, after a brief stay here, had to return to
Winter Quarters, Mrs. Young must have had a
sore experience, but she bore that trial as she
did all others that she was called to pass through,
with the dignity of true womanhood, and never
faltered or wavered in her faith, or adherence to
the principles of the Gospel she had embraced
when so young in years.
	Sister Young has borne five children, two sons
and three daughters. One of the greatest sorrows
of her life was the death of her boys. She was
almost inconsolable for a time, but her grief was
not without an abiding hope of receiving them
again, where there would be no more death and
all tears be wiped away. She left three daughters,
and one who mourns her as sincerely as her own,
who shared her love and tenderness equally with
her very own. Five grandchildren are also left to
mourn her loving care and kindness, for she was
as tender and thoughtful of them as she had been
of her own little flock.
	The funeral services were held at her home on
Monday, January 7, at 12 m., President Seymour
B. Young presiding. The house was filled with
relatives and friends, who came to pay their last
tribute of respect and love, and many who could
not gain admittance manifested their appreciation
by remaining outside and around the gateways
during the entire service. The services com-
menced with the hymn, "Nearer, my God, to
Thee," sung by the quartette, Mrs. Edith Knowl-
ton, Mrs. Vilate Young, George D. Pyper and
J. D. Spencer. Prayer was offered by President
D. H. Wells, after which the hymn, "Unveil thy
bosom, faithful tomb" wes rendered by the singers.
Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered a very feeling
and eloquent address; he was followed by Elder
S. B. Young, who spoke in terms of praise and 
endearment of "Aunt Clara," and President D. H.
Wells spoke for a few minutes in a similar strain,
appreciative of the excellent traits of the de-
ceased. The quartette rendered in a tender man-
ner the beautiful hymn, "Come to me," and the
benediction was pronounced by Elder Robert
Patrick.
	The friends present were permitted to take a 
last look at Sister Young, and the casket was
carried from the house by the sons of President
Young and immediate relatives of the deceased.
There were many floral offerings, beautiful and
fragrant, and it was a tender and graceful expres-
sion of love to her children and family, but Sister
Young needed not these to beautify her remains,
for her memory is imperishable, and her good
name sweeter than the fairest blossom with which
her grave was strewn. May the living follow her
noble example, and when death shall come to
them may it be as peaceful and as grand as was
hers.
	A long line of carriages followed her earthly re-
mains to the cemetery, and after the coffin was
deposited in the vault, "Rest on the hillside" was
sung, and the dedicatory prayer was offered by
Elder Seymour B. Young. The grave was
covered and the funeral cortege wended its weary
way backward to the city leaving her in silence in
"the city of the dead."


