PASSING EVENTS.

	There are many interesting things transpiring
at the present time, that are worthy of record in
the history of this people, and yet the Latter-day
Saints are, most of them, more or less indifferent in
regard to the importance of the scenes and events
that are actually taking place among them day by
day, in fulfillment of the prophecies of Scripture
and of the servants of the Lord in modern times.
It is so natural to worship the past, to revere the
men and women who have lived and labored in
the ages gone by, and of whom history has re-
corded only their most sublime acts, but the real,
actual present is perhaps more prescient with
telling and significant realities, and those of
greater magnitude than any other age of the
world has ever been. It is the day and time to
which all the greatest men, seers and revelators
looked forward to and desired to see, "the dis-
pensation of the fulness of times," that glorious
day when all dispensations that have ever been
will "be welded together;" the keys of former
dispensations have been restored again, the turn-
ing of the hearts of the fathers to the children
and the children to the fathers has begun, and
those who live in this day are made partakers of
these wonderful blessings, and without appreciat-
ing their value. That there is a grand purpose in
what is deemed of little consequence, except as it
affects the Saints pecuniarily there is no reason to
doubt, and as for the riches of this world, it is not
to be considered in comparison to the greater
blessings the Lord has bestowed upon His people.
Certainly it is necessary to have sufficient material
wealth to build up Zion, but that will come in the
due time of the Lord, even if the government
takes away all the public property, that has been
accumulated since the settling of these valleys.
That it has been honestly earned and sacredly
given to build Temples and to beautify and adorn
Zion, that all nations might flock hither as has
been ages ago predicted, is verily true be-
yond contradiction. yet the designs of the
Almighty cannot be frustrated, and the Lord's
work will roll on triumphantly, and no power on
earth can stay its course, and those who persecute
the Saints are fulfilling the Scriptures, though
they know it not.
	The Church cases now pending before the
Supreme Court of the United States, in which so
much pertaining to rights of property, liberty and
privileges is involved, are of greater moment
than one is likely to think, unless viewing the
matter by the light of inspiration. The truth is
those who live in this era of the world's history
when so much is being accomplished in so short
a space of time, look at things with a natural eye,
do not perceive that God is in it all, and are not
therefore prepared to acknowledge His hand in
all that is coming to pass, but seek to solve by

[Column 2]

scientific laws known to the world of mankind,
the great problems that are being worked out by a
higher rule than any known to-day among the
children of men. A glimpse of divine light
seen occasionally and with the spiritual eye of
discernment, has proved how vast and incompre-
hensible are the plans of the great Creator of the
universe. His ways are indeed past finding out,
and He turns and overturns at His good-will and
pleasure. He has laid down certain rules for men
to walk by, certain laws to keep in order to obtain
a knowledge of the Gospel, and has promised
those who comply with these requirements a por-
tion of His Spirit, which shall bring things to
their remembrance; "it is the spirit of prophecy
and reveals future events." Therefore, those who
are in possession of the Spirit of God are likely
not only to know more of what is transpiring
around them, but to know concerning future
events, and to be prepared therefor; and the
satisfaction that such true knowledge must bring
with it, cannot be conpared to the wisdom of the
wise in the learning of the world. This was the
spirit that made Joseph great above his fel-
lows, and the same spirit that caused Joseph the
Prophet in this day and age to warn men to re-
pentance and seek unto the Lord, and gave him a
knowledge of what was to come to pass upon this
land. And some of the things he prophesied of
have already taken place, and others are near at
hand, nearer, it may be, than many even of the
Latter-day Saints are aware of.


[column 1]
