	   THE CHARACTER OF PORTIA.

     The tragedy of Julius Caesar is a true picture
of the tyranny, and ambition and jealousy, ex-
isting in the Roman Senate, as well as of the
oppression and rebellion found in the lower
classes of Rome.
     Conspiracy, treachery, murder, suicide, war
—the results of certain political relations, are
violently shown up.
     Naturally, in a play of this kind, women
would not appear as leading characters.  They
would be introduced as Sweet Portia was, just
for a moment, as it were, to take our minds
from conspiracy, daggers and blood, and let
them feel the more God-like influence of
chastity, love and constancy.
     She is there to soften and tone down the
harsh and angular lines of the picture; to
radiate the light of her innate loveliness even
to the dark and unsightly; to leave the story
of a life that all may with profit study.
     Portia was a typical Roman lady in the age
of Julius Caesar, and is a characteristic woman
for all time.
     In Plutarch's lives we read her noble history.
Although one of Shakespeare’s characters, she
is not created in his imagination; he has com-
prehended her and behold Portia is born again
in the play Julius Caesar!
     Portia was the daughter of a most honored
Roman, Cato; as she grew from childhood into
womanhood she became an ideal, and no wonder
is it, that the noble Brutus sought and gained
her for his wife.
     Portia seems but a milder and gentler copy
of her husband, her life became nothing, apart
from him.  He was "The ocean to the river of
her thoughts."
     When Brutus became involved in the con-
spiracy against the life of Caesar, he knew that
all the most valiant and brave men of Rome
ventured with him their lives and honor in the

[column 2]
enterprise, so he endeavored to hide from his 
countenance and actions everything that might
show a disturbed state of mind; with the public
he was successful, but his wife soon discovered
that something troubled him.
     Womanlike, Portia was anxious to know of
this thing, that she might show her love and
faithfulness by sharing his pain and grief, as
well as pleasures; she, therefore, asked,  but
was treated unkindly, and dismissed.  Afraid
to question further, she went away, "hoping it
but an affect of humor that sometime hath its
hour with every man."
     The Ides of March at length came, and yet
not day, Portia has not slept.  Sick at heart,
she discerned some six or seven men, their faces
masked even from the night, conversing in the
garden with her lord.  What does this mean?
Surely some great danger threatens Brutus.
Unhappy wife; until now she had been nour-
ished in the love and confidence her position
deserved.
     Portia determines to furnish some proof that
grief nor pain can overcome her, so she seizes
a knife and courageously plunges it into her
thigh, then she watched the grey light of dawn
begin to appear, heard the clock strike three,
saw the conspirators depart, then hastened into
the garden.
     “Brutus, my lord,”—that voice pierced his
soul—in his mind he was assassinating Caesar,
he turns to chide his wife for coming into the
“Rheumy air,” but Portia is not to be put off.
Unlike Cordelia, she can “heave her heart into
her mouth,” and with sainted eloquence now
pleads her right to share this secret; recalls 
with gentleness his late unkind manner; Upon
her knees and by her once commended beauty,
by all his vows of love and that great vow
which did make them one, she pleads.
     Tells him she should not need to kneel if he
were gentle Brutus, asks if she is to know no
secrets that appertain to him—if she is himself
but in limitation she is not his wife.  Brutus
says, "You are my true and honorable wife."
There is a world of loveliness in her answer:

    "If this were true, then should I know this secret.
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife;
	I grant, I am a woman, but withal,
    A woman well reputed, Cato's daughter,
	Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
    Being so fathered and so husbanded?
	Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em;
    I have made strong proof of my constancy,
	Giving myself a voluntary wound
    Here in the thigh; can bear that with patience,
	And not my husband's secrets."

     Brutus exclaims: "O ye Gods!  Render me
worthy of this noble wife."
     Then he gently sends her away, promising
that she shall partake the secret of his heart.
     When Portia knows all the plans of the 
conspirators, she is almost distracted.  Brutus
went to the Senate house and the gentle wife
was left to wait in horrible suspense until news
 of the enterprise could come.  Her woman's
strength is scarcely great enough to keep the 
secret and she fears that by some word or
action she will disclose it; she imagines that
noise proceeds from the capitol, and sends
Lucius to Brutus and bids him say "that she is
merry."  Finally the suspense is so great that
she rushes to the Senate house herself, arriving 
just in time to hear the noise and uproar after
the assassination.  Portia swoons and is carried 
home dying, her attendants think, and report
to Brutus. 
     But Brutus even made his personal feelings
subject to Rome and liberty; so Portia was left
alone with her weak woman's heart, which had 
been shattered by the shocks of the day's 
events. 
     From this swoon Portia revives and lives to 
part with Brutus previous to his departure for

[column 3]
battle; she makes no show of grief in his pres-
ence, but once out of his sight she bursts into
passionate tears.
     No doubt the assassination of Caesar weighed
heavily on her mind, and assisted in rendering
her frantic.  But the greatest cause of suspense
and grief that she felt was in the absence of
her husband on the field of battle, and upon
learning that the opposing forces of Octavius
and Mark Antony were making themselves so
strong; she lost her reason entirely and her
attendants being absent, she swallowed fire,
and thus put an end to her unhappy existence.
