SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt Lake
Stake was held in the Assembly Rooms, in the
Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th,
1888, commencing at 10 a.m. On the plat-
form were Prest. Zina D. H. Young and her
Counselors, Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith; also the Secretary, Sarah M. Kim-
ball. Prest. of Salt Lake Stake, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, presided.
	Conference opened with singing, "O, Jesus,
the giver," etc. Prayer by the Secretary,
Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet." The Secretary
read the minutes of the previous conference,
which were accepted, and the roll was called;
21 presidents and 3 counselors reported; each
one spoke of the Relief Society of her respec-
tive ward as being in good condition, and of
the good works being performed by the sisters.
	During the time of the reports being given
Prest. Zina D. H. Young addressed the confer-

[Column 2]

ence. Mrs. Young said she was pleased with
the reports, but thought this a time when our
meetings should be numerously attended. and
we should meet often to gain strength by con-
stant prayer, and calling upon God day and
night in supplication and draw near unto the
Lord; we need more faith to-day than ever; let
us neglect no duty; our tithes, our offerings,
and every duty should be diligently performed,
and she also made other excellent remarks.
	At the close of the morning session Prest.
M. I. Horne made some remarks, desiring
all who were present to come in the afternoon,
as there were some instructions to be given to
the Relief Society. Singing, "Lord, dismiss
us with Thy blessing." Benediction by Mrs.
B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: Conference continued.
Singing, "O, say, what is truth?" Prayer was
offered by M. W. Wilcox. Singing, "O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest." Reports were
then given by 5 presidents and one counselor,
after which Prest. Horne addressed the meet-
ing. She was glad to see so many present at
holiday time, when she knew there was so
much going on; urged the sisters to improve-
ment, and to examine their own hearts, and
see whether they had made much spiritual
progress during the past year, as it was now
verging on to the new year 1889; "let us deter-
mine to do better in the year to come; we want
to have our meetings conducted on parliamen-
tary rules; Prest. Jos. Smith predicted many
great things concerning the Relief Society;
women have always held responsible positions
when the priesthood was on the earth. We
should preside with dignity, and look to the
small items that pertain to our improving our-
selves and becoming Elect women. We have
been advised to gather and store up wheat by
the President of the Church, and to take care
of it for the time of famine, which is surely
coming. Doing our duty is the path of safety;
let us be patient and humble and ask our
Heavenly Father for grace sufficient for our
day, and we shall be blessed of Him; and let
us also seek Him for wisdom, that we may be
faithful unto the end."
	A letter from President Woodruff concern-
ing the wheat was then read.
	Prest. Z. D. H. Young spoke a short time;
said that all the instructions she had received
had come from God, our Father, through His
servants to the people; "and we know our duty,
and if we perform it we need have no fear, we
need not doubt. The kingdom will move on,
let us serve God and keep the still small voice
within us, get the Spirit of God and keep it;
let us have the bread of life, that we may have
a portion to distribute to some who have it not.
Can we not inspire our sons and our daughters
to serve God and keep His commandments, so
that none of them may marry outside of the
Church?" The revelation to Emma Smith
was then read, after which Sister Zina made
further remarks relating to the subjects men-
tioned.
	Coun. Jane S. Richards said, "When we
take time to examine ourselves we find many
little things to improve upon; our sisters who
stay at home lose by so doing; in their anxiety
to have everything nice for the little ones at
home, they forget this duty; still I do wish they
would come to meeting, that they might enjoy
the Spirit of the Lord. If there is sickness or
death in the family, that is a good excuse to
stay at home, and I pray for all such; let us
try, my sisters, to get near to God, that we
may have pleasure in doing good. I always
take pleasure in visiting the sick; the poor in
spirit are to be pitied; let us visit them and try
to give them strength. Though this is a day
of trial we enjoy the goodness of the Lord."
	Sister Helen Mar Whitney: "We have
more reason to be thankful to God than any
people on the earth; we have not much of this

[Column 3]

world's goods, but we should be grateful that
we are here, and not among those who are pro-
moting dissension and war. We are enjoying
comparative peace; let us read the words of the
Prophet, and increase our interest in the youth
of Zion; it is the wayward we should pray for;
let us be charitable and merciful one to another.
We are nearing the day of famine, and let us
be prepared for it."
	Coun. Bathsheba W. Smith wished the sis-
ters all "A Merry Christmas and A Happy
New Year," after which Mrs. E. B. Wells
spoke a short time on the subject of woman
suffrage, and thought it necessary to have an
organization for Utah, in order to use our in-
fluence with the women of the nation to ob-
tain suffrage for all. "The National Enroll-
ment papers were circulated for signatures, as
one of the helps to obtain it; there would soon
be an organization formed, and a meeting
would be called for the purpose." She hoped
it would be a large and influential gathering,
and that good would be the result.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again."
Benediction bp Bro. Barnes.
		ELIZABETH HOWARD,
			Secretary S. L. Stake. 
	The Primary Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held Dec. 22nd, 1888, in the
Assembly Hall, in this city, Mrs. Ellen C.
Clawson presiding. Opened with singing,
"Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Prest. Louie
Felt. Singing, "Hope of Israel." Roll called.
Minutes of last conference were read and ac-
cepted. Recitation, a boy from the 10th
Ward; Miss Folsom, 14th Ward, sang, "Open
the Gate.
	Prest. Louie Felt made a few remarks; told
of her visit to the Temple, and wished all "A
Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year."
	A little girl from the 10th Ward recited,
"No flowers on Papa's Grave;" Duet, by two
girls from 15th Ward. Remarks by Coun.
Lillie Freeze; she advised reading from the New
Testament. A little girl from the 17th Ward
recited, "Christmas Eve;" Song, by three girls
of Sugar House Ward, "Happy Children;"
Song, by the little ones, "The children are
praying for me;" Coun. L. A. Wells made in-
teresting remarks; Recitation, a little girl of
the 11th Ward, also by Jos. Williams of the
21st Ward.
	Coun. C. C. Cobb addressed the children in
a very pleasing style; prayed that all would
have a good Christmas and a Happy New
Year.
	Essay on Truth, by Annie Hagman of the
19th Ward; Recitation, by a boy of the 7th
Ward; a little girl of the 17th Ward recited,
and Prest. Clawson made some closing remarks;
expressed her pleasure with the meeting, and
urged the children to remember all those who
were sick in their prayers. Prayed that the
Lord would bless all the children and help
them to do right.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Marching Homeward." Benediction
by Bro. Evan Stephens.
		BESSIE DEAN,
	Stake Secretary P. A.


