EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Well! here I am, away up in the mountains
of Mexico, and nearly Christmas, the time of
"Peace on earth, good will to men." How
strange the changes which occur, and we notice
them more when Christmas time comes, as we
look back from year to year, conning over the
gay and merry time of childhood, and the none
the less enjoyable occasions of more mature
years; such a train of thought is awakened that
it becomes a task to write, unless one had a gift
for dotting down one's thoughts as they come,
and making them more readable than I feel 
capable of doing.
	Where are the playmates of childhood? the
companions of youth? Time has no doubt
brought changes to them as great as to us.
How are the absent loved ones, and how will
they spend the holidays, are queries often put
by the children, bless them! Christmas has a
charm for happy, innocent childhood, no matter
how simple the preparations, how limited the
presents, the fact that they are made by loving
hands, makes them, I sometimes think, more
appreciated, than would be more costly ones.
	And after all a view of the fine display and
magnificent array of Christmas goods in the
show windows of Salt Lake, and that delight
of childhood, the Christmas tree, with its
weight of good things, cannot alone bring
happiness, even to our little ones. By the way
there is no lack of Christmas trees here, if they
do lack the trimming, for this is a land of
pines; we certainly have some magnificent
scenery here, and when viewed either in the
daytime by the light of the glorious sunshine,
or by the light of the full round moon, it seems
to me it would be hard to excel the crags and
peaks of the majestic mountains, the tall,
straight pines casting their shadows eastward,
and the evergreen oaks with their thick, dark
foliage, and over all the clear blue sky, the
twinkling stars, and mellow light of the moon,
the queen of night, forms a scene which is
indescribably lovely, and has a charm for me
which I cannot explain.
	I have been for a lovely walk with the
children, at the earnest solicitation of my
boys, and have enjoyed it very much; we
climbed their favorite peak, almost solid rock
seemingly, and yet with soil enough for a com-
paratively thick growth of trees, and from
which we can trace the winding of the river,
the "Peadris Verde," and across that, perhaps
a mile or two distant, a large group of curious
looking rocks, perfectly bare of vegetation,
which look like so many old castles of every
kind and description. I felt well paid for the
climbing, and returned with a bouquet of dry
grass, oak leaves, etc., and several varieties of
beautiful moss from the trees and rocks.
	On our way here a few weeks ago we passed
one peak of this range of mountains, which
was different to anything I ever saw before,
towering perhaps five hundred feet above us at


the side of the road.  It took but little stretch
of the imagination to convert the rocks at its
summit into multitudes of people, some gaily
and others grotesquely attired; one figure in
particular attracted my attention, that of an
old and venerable monk seated in an old-
fashioned, straight backed arm chair, just as I
have seen in pictures; some elegantly dressed
ladies just out on a shopping expedition.  But
I shall tire your readers, so adieu for the
present.					KATE.
	Sierra Madre Mountains, Mexico, Dec. 23,
1888.


