4 The Challenge of Immortality Dr. M. Lynn Bennion EASTER DAY commemorates the resurrection of the Redeemer of mankind and certifies to the truths which He proclaimed while on earth and which He embodied in His life. The doubts and despair of Calvary were triumphantly dispelled when Jesus broke the bands of death and returned to His disciples in the fulness of personal life. Mary Magdalene and other faithful women received the joyful Easter message from the lips of an angel at the tomb. "Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here: for He is risen, as He said. Come see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell His disciples, that He is risen from the dead, and behold, He goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see Him: lo, I have told you." (Matt. 28:5-7) THE question of the resurrection is settled for the Latter-day Saints by the testimony of the scriptures, both ancient and modern. The doctrine of the resurrection is the very core and heart of our religion. Is this a reasonable faith which we cherish? If we postulate God, then it certainly is. Personal immortality is as sure as God Himself. The power of God is the fundamental argument for the truth of the resurrection of the dead. "God is not the God of the dead, but of the living." Socrates, several hundred years before Christ, said, "When death attacks a man, his mortal part dies, but his immortal part retreats before death, and goes away safe and indestructible." Another philosopher, Kant, indicated that belief in immortality was required in order to justify us to obey our consciences. MAN was created by a Being who has love as the foundation of His life. A life of love was beautifully exemplified in Jesus, who pled with all men to love God and man freely, and in so loving grow to be like God Himself. It is quite inconceivable that God would permit those who have been gaining such characters by the help of His spirit to die utterly. If righteous character is of value, we must suppose that that character will continue. Reason and memory shall continue, and the experiences of a future life shall grow out of and be built upon the experiences of the present life as a preparation. To think and love, remember and act, to be able to recognize friends and to enjoy beautiful things are among man's eternal blessings. The associations of the resurrected Lord among mortals confirms our faith in the reality of these things. THE doctrine of the resurrection exalts man as the offspring of God and the object of His most devoted love and affection. As the divine was manifested in the life of Christ, so in every man's life God may be revealed. The resurrection was a seal of divine approbation upon the life of Christ. His life is for us the exposition of God's way of living. The Savior brought life and immortality and light to the world, and to strive to live as He lived is our challenge today. It has been truthfully said that to be sure of immortality one must live like an immortal. When we are living as God has commanded us to live, our doubts vanish. Christ Himself suggested the pragmatic test to the doubter when He said, "If any man will do My will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of Myself." It was the "come and see" invitation of the Savior that brought men invariably from darkness into light. We recall how the testimony of the risen Christ, bestowed upon the early apostles by the Holy Ghost, transformed their lives. They sought earnestly to bring their conduct in line with their faith, that they might be with their Master in eternal happiness. Traveling among the humble disciples of Jesus, the apostles observed the moral and spiritual power associated with true faith. "Every man who hath this hope in Him purifieth himself." THINK of the exalted faith of our Mormon pioneers who, out of the depths of suffering and privation, sang joyously, "And should we die before our journey's through, happy day, all is well." Human lives were lifted to new levels. Conscious that they were already living the immortal life, these folk sought passionately the things of the spirit. Moral uplift and spiritual power have ever been the consequence of that greatest faith that the human mind can hold?the faith that life may attain immortal quality and be assured of endless duration. I believe that a survey of the Church today would show that many of the saints derive from their faith in immortality that same incentive to live the higher life. It is not logic but a dynamic faith that most surely carries conviction. When the missionaries go out to win converts to the Church, a more potent force than their arguments is a challenge they offer: "Live here and now the life that deserves to live forever." Strange it is how the fear of death vanishes when people start facing the power of life. When life is lifted to the highest moral and spiritual levels the conviction of immortality is not difficult to obtain. This is indeed a great discovery. It means seeking God as a living quest. It means making the will of God the guide and inspiration of daily living. It invites a close and vital comradeship with him. Not as an abstract discovery or as a logical conclusion, but as a consequence of living a godly life does this testimony come. A fine old pioneer character is at the present time in a Brigham City hospital, waiting for the end to come. This man has a conviction of immortality born out of a life of devotion to the gospel. He said to his son-in-law a few days ago, "I am going to my exaltation." "When God wants to carry a point with His children," says one writer, "He plants His arguments in their instincts. This, it seems to me, is what Jesus recognized when He described the issue of immortality in that singularly simple but suggestive statement, "If it were not so, I would have told you." By this statement the Master sought to place our confidence in the persistence of personality, not upon some dogmatic utterance, but upon the deepest instinct of humanity, which instinct, in the last analysis, is for better than head knowledge. YOU cannot X-ray love, hate, envy and other emotions, nor locate them in the human anatomy, but there is nothing more real and powerful. The very best things in life we feel. The best testimony of God and man's divine relationship to Him is our own experience in the midst of living. God is always to be found through personal experience. Those who fail to recognize this truth and limit themselves to materiality are in my humble opinion missing the whole secret of life. I have many unanswered questions about the details of life after death, but I have no doubt of the reality of that after life. My desire is to have a quality of experience so rich and radiant, so full of meaning, that it will make each approaching year to the door of immortality more worthwhile. Easter invites us to "Life Eternal" through a knowledge of Jesus. Eternal life may become a present possession. It is for us, then, to cherish our faith in Christ and immortality, to fan the flame of it until it shall make our lives stronger and more beautiful. As the years pass we shall grow in courage, in buoyancy, in faith in ourselves, in life, in one another, in the world, and in God. We shall value human life for what it is, the highest and finest work of God, and we shall aspire to make that life a thing of beauty and of joy. He who was raised on Easter Day has given us this faith and this vision. He has assured us that we shall meet again after separation and shall enter into endless peace and progress. Thank God for this joyful message ?this happy truth.