"And Some in Velvet Gowns" By Sibyl Spande Bowen RS. SMITH is a devoted M garden worker. From early March until late October she spends several hours a day in her garden planting, digging, weeding, watering, culling and all the thousand odd duties it takes to produce a lovely garden. You can tell, even if you've never seen Mrs. Smith's backyard fairyland, that she is a real, dirt-digging, sun-loving gardener, because otherwise Mrs. Smith would never, never possess those broken, blackened fingernails, that deep red burn on the back of her neck that no beauty parlor operator can ever rid her of. Nor would she have that permanent sun-squint that has made a fine network of wrinkles about her eyes. And if Mrs. Smith was of the age or disposition to wear rolled hose, doubtless you might notice that her knees bear that pecular earth stain that never seems to disappear completely during the gardening season. Mrs. Smith will tell you laughingly if she catches you looking askance at those nails that she "just can't abide gloves'"' when she's working in the garden. She likes the feel of the warm earth on her bare hands, even if it does do queer things to her nails. Also, she usually works in an old, short-sleeved jersey dress. It never shows the dirt, you know. (But you know that too without the telling. Those arms have that peculiar, sunburned-potato hue that is more eloquent even than Mrs. Smith's explanation.) No, she seldom wears a hat. All her old dress hats are the small kind, and she doesn't like to buy one just for the garden. Later on she'll spend two or three times the price of a garden hat on creams and lotions trying to get rid of her ultra tan, but when one is fortyish sunburn is more easily acquired than lost. All in all, it seems a pity that Mrs. Smith should be the only discordant note in the loveliness of her flower garden. Summer gardens are full of Mrs. Smiths. Grotesque enough figures they are sometimes. An otherwise well-dressed lady spends hours digging in her garden attired in an old "AND SOME IN VELVET GOWNS" pink satin skirt and one of those things designed for boudoir wear we used to call a '"saque." Her entire garden isn't behind her house, either. Others appear in motley ensembles of old bedroom slippers (pompoms still attached), college son's old athletic sweater, the white letter looming large, and a topping of somebody's discarded golf cap. High fashion in head gear seems to be dad's old felt hat. It has at least a semblance of a brim, even if it does have a habit of perching high and lightly as a summer's cloud upon the feminine head. Garden dresses can be and are "just anything handy." The result of this hit and miss garbing is that the mistress of the garden quite frequently looks as though she were subbing for the family scarecrow. All of which is quite wrong. Gardening is an activity which occupies much time and costs considerable money for at least six months of the year. It is work that is done in semi-public, and in the full path of wind and sun. Gardeners should be sightly to the first and protected from the second if they are to continue to be classed as lovely ladies. Hence a special garden wardrobe is quite in the way of being a necessity, as well as a pleasure. First of all there should be a suitable dress. Some gardeners wear overalls, and some wear beach pajamas, but unless you are quite in the willowy class, skirts are better. A smock, just as gay or quiet as to color as you wish, is quite as useful to the gardener as it is to the artist. Not any kind of smock will do. It must be one that comes well up on the back of the neck and has sleeves to the wrist to protect white arms. A smock has the advantage that it can be slipped on over a housedress without loss of time for odd moments in the garden. Big patch pockets are convenient for stray packages of seed, and such. A garden hat is a prime necessity. A big hat that spreads over the back of the neck and casts ample shadows on that "v" in the front of the dress. Opening is the kind to have. The brim must be stiff enough not to flop, however, or the wearer will be at the mercy of every teasing breeze. Big hats can be so decorative, too. And then the gloves. There are gardeners who claim they simply cannot become used to working in gloves. They can, if they start with the softer, smaller kinds, and keep them on persistently through every kind of work. Low-heeled oxfords are best to wear in the garden. Your old high-heeled shoes may be perfectly comfortable, but they do just as much damage to your lawn as they would to a golf green, and they are never tolerated there. Bedroom slippers are out. Like the camel's pad, they do not sink into the sand and loam, but they are hard on the arches as well as unsightly out-of-doors. Cotton stockings do not snag on rose thorns as easily as do silk. Other garden accessories include a thick rubber sponge mat to kneel upon, a substantial basket to hold trowel, shears, seeds, and small tools, and for those with sensitive eyes, a pair of sun goggles. Simple things, these, but they make all the difference between gardening comfortably and attractively, and the absolute opposite. Go out into your garden dressed for the occasion and you will come through the season unweathered and unbegrimed, with no mark upon you but the added sparkle to your eyes and skin that fresh air and exercise can always give you. Photo by D. W.