Green MEXICAN POPPY How Prayers Are Answered By Nora A. Davis NSTINCTIVELY we human ] beings turn to prayer because we can't help ourselves. Prayer being so natural we do not often analyze the process, but when we do, we can observe how securely it is based upon some of the laws of life and the universe. By careful consideration we can see that when we pray we unwittingly subject ourselves to a great principle, "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the world was upon which all blessings are predicated. And when we obtain any blessing from God it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. "This being" an unyielding law, it is evident that prayers are efficacious when they are in harmony with this controlling force, as all laws work under certain bounds and conditions; so as we proceed, let us treat some of these basic elements in their relationship to prayer. One of the mighty powers of this earth is the law of faith. It is fundamental in prayer, and is visible throughout all the handiwork of God; therefore, prayer to be answered must be vitalized by an abundance of faith in God's power, love, and wisdom. We must also believe that when we pray in the name of Jesus Christ we connect ourselves with another governing law of this earth. The greater our faith, the surer our prayers are to be answered, as the stronger our faith the better the laws of prayer function. Another basic law of prayer is humility. All nature submits to the divine will, so a praying person should say, "Thy will, not mine, be done." We reach out and harmonize ourselves with the great plan if we subject our personal desires to those of God's. When we insist on having our Own way, we cease to cooperate with divinity and get out of accord with the other forces for good in the universe. However, such determined prayers may sometimes be answered, but instead of bringing joy they often produce sorrow. A fundamental requisite in the law of prayer is obedience. We have been commanded to "pray always." If we faithfully pray we have that far kept the law, all the universe needs to obey or chaos and confusion would soon reign. So man is no exception if he wants his prayers answered, he too must obey. Among' the essential laws of prayer we find the law of action. Prayer is never a_ substitute for work, but a guide for it; consequently, the Lord can help us most by our helping ourselves under His divine influence. This is as it should be as nothing is static in nature; everything is struggling upwards under the directing influence of God and His powerful laws. So we would be insincere and out of harmony with the other laws of God, if we prayed for a thing and failed to make every honorable effort to get it. For after all, our real prayers are our actions. Only after we have done all in our power can we ask the Lord to use super-human agencies in our behalf. Gratitude is another one of these laws. For only the thankful person can appreciate or realize the full answer to his prayers. Ungrateful individuals cannot respond to the mercies of God, and get the spiritual joy out of the blessings they receive through their prayers. Observe the plant and animal world, how they express gratitude by responding nobly to the mercies of God. Then when we see man refuse to admit gratefully his blessings, we know to 230 a certain extent he is not really praying to God. How much happier we would be, and how much more beautiful and beneficial our prayers would be if we gave the Lord more praise and thanks instead of making our petitions just requests. When man prays he also employs the great law of free agency. Because there is good and evil in the world, man must choose continually between the two. When he prays he appeals to his better self and reserve power, and calls his spiritual nature to enlist in the cause of righteousness. While he prays to God, he also prays to his higher self. As no man dares ask the Lord for evil, the very act of praying is uplifting. Therefore, we may say prayers are answered if a man rises from his prayers a better man. The spiritual and moral benefits come to him, even though his specific request is denied. From the great, unseen world he receives the courage and strength he needs. WE observe that the prayers of the brethren holding the priesthood are more efficacious than ordinary prayers. Evidently the power they hold to act in the name of God makes it possible for them to employ more powerful and effective agencies, and because of this increased command of laws their prayers are more efficient. May it not be that that is the reason Enoch could command mountains to be removed and it was accomplished? It seems personal contact makes prayer more powerful. A notable example of this type of prayer is that of the woman who touched the Savior's robe in a crowd, and was instantly healed. This kind of prayer is advised by James as follows: "Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the Church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord; and the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up." Why does this prayer of personal contact make the elder's administration more influential? It could be that it closes the spiritual circuit between the sick and the elders so that a more potent law is enlisted in behalf of the afflicted one. Also the psychological effects could more logically follow. How can one question that family prayer in the home wields a mighty influence for good? A group sincerely praying together are blessed abundantly. It may be compared to lighting a furnace fire on a cold day. Before long by the law of radiation, the home is warm and cheery. So prayer in the home invites the mighty laws of God to warm, purify, and safeguard the members of that family. No home can well afford to fail in making these great benefits available. All our lives we have been taught to pray for the authorities of the Church and government. But even then sometimes we wonder what benefits our little prayers are to men so capable and well blessed already. At least, we feel our prayers keep us loyal, so we continue to pray for them. However, it is not our prayers alone, but the great accumulation of prayers of all the Church that sustains the authorities. The grand total of petitions mobilizes a spiritual army of laws to uphold, support, and strengthen them. We also pray for the missionaries while they are in the field, and they pray for themselves, and as a result, they almost always succeed in their labor. SUPPOSE we have all wondered how the Lord could hear the petitions of the two billion people of the world. Since the day of radio we can understand how He can actually hear our prayers, Himself or by His organization; but does He physically hear all the supplications of the world? Of course He hears and answers our prayers, but He does it in a Godly way. When we know more about the Supreme Being, the more convinced we will be that prayers are surely answered. It could be possible for God to hear and answer our supplications through His divine, mighty, and universal laws. He would know when we prayed to Him, and our prayers were answered by the functioning of His laws. Having a perfect knowledge of the laws of prayer He would be aware when they were obeyed, and by His consent the blessings predicated on the laws would come in answer. We may say in conclusion that when we obey the laws of prayer our prayers are answered. We obey the laws of health and we receive health; we obey the laws of education by our study and constant effort and we secure an education. Just so prayers are answered as a result of obedience, for they are invariably and wisely answered even if the answer is not always in the affirmative and immediate.