Bulbs and Bloom in Holland Dear Mina, When I caught my first glimpse of a Dutch windmill and a thatched roof and bed of tulips from the train window, my mind went racing back to the days I spent with you in your grandmother's clean kitchen eating her good Dutch cookies and listening to her stories about this country. I almost felt guilty to be here while you who have always wanted to visit the land of your people were so far away. Do you remember the dramatic story, "The Black Tulip," we read, about a rare bulb that was worth thousands of guilders and was constantly disappearing in spite of the careful guarding of the grower who had supposedly produced it, and how excited we were over the mysteries and intrigues involved. Do you recall that your grandmother told us she was sure there never had been a truly black tulip, but that away back in the sixteenth century after tulip bulbs had been brought from Asia where they grew wild, and were cultivated in Europe, they became so popular among the aristocracy of some of the countries that they caused panics? I recall that she said men speculated in rare bulbs that didn't exist and that many people, as I recall some of your own ancestors, lost "houses and lands, diamonds and pearls, cows, horses and carriages," in exchange for "rare bulbs." Some of the bulbs may have been faked. But surely there must have been truly precious ones even in those days to produce the glorious blooms in Holland now. There are other beautiful flowers besides the tulip in these great beds of bloom that look like magic carpets stretched upon the earth. The colors range through all the tints and shades of blue, red, pink, lavender, purple, orange, gold, cream and white. I wish you could have gone with me to the fields at Haarlem, not far from the lovely city of Amsterdam, the Venice of the North where your grandmother used to live. You would have loved the ride out past the little Dutch village with children in wooden shoes playing hop-scotch in clean swept yards; past green meadows with cows and little flocks of sheep feeding peacefully along little winding streams with trees in clumps or rows, just bursting into leaf. You would have loved the wonderful breath of the hyacinths and narcissus that filled the air. You would have enjoyed walking along the little paths between the beds, stooping to examine the exquisite shapes of the lovely clusters or the individual blossoms as they swayed like bright butterflies on their long stalks. You would have liked, too, the information the genial bulb-farmer gave so graciously and would have responded to his genuine affection for his flowers. He talked of the beauties of some of his favorites as a fond mother talks of her children. Because you are so interested in flowers and are eager to add to your own beautiful bulb plots I'm going to relay some of the information I received. You may know much of it already, but you'll listen again. Because this comes from your beloved Holland. There are nearly 2,000 varieties of tulips in cultivation. If you are interested to become acquainted with them by name you may do so by procuring an 80 page booklet published by the Royal Horticultural Society of London. About 17,000 acres of land are devoted to the growth of bulbs and the annual amount received from exporting them is nearly 17 million dollars. Some varieties of tulips are very expensive, single beds are valued at thousands of dollars. Some of the most exquisite tulips that have been produced by the long careful work of bulb-growers are the Rembrandt with striped cups, reminding one of the painter's flower pieces; and the Darwin, lovely gold blossoms on long straight stalks. New varieties are produced by crossing old types, as you know, hybridizing. In this manner many new and startling blossoms have been produced. I saw tulips as large as hollyhocks and of colors from deep purple?almost black?through all shades of red, rose, orange, pink, cream, to snowy white; and some the most astonishing mixtures of colors. The grower told me that these Mendel tulips, as he calls the hybrids, are giving marvelous satisfaction to all tastes. You know, of course, that hyacinths are also grown from the bulb as well as from seed. I didn't know that the normal development of young hyacinth bulbs from the mother bulb takes so long?from five to six years?nor that to increase their quantity "cutting" is used?making incisions in the lower part of a large bulb, in which by careful treatment young bulbs grow to maturity in three or four years. They also hollow out the roots of a bulb and in the hollow left, young bulbs develop. I was informed that the development of young bulbs can be speeded by artificial heat. The parent bulbs are placed in heated storehouses where a proper temperature is kept. The bulbs grow better if the flowers are stripped off as soon as they appear. It seemed terrible to see great heaps of lovely blossoms lying in some fields. An interesting fact to me was that diseased hyacinths cannot be detected in sunlight. At intervals men go through the fields holding huge umbrellas to shade the beds from the sunshine in order to detect by the appearance of the leaves if a plant is diseased. Such plants are removed and destroyed. In this flower-land all the bulbs meant for sale are carefully inspected as soon as they are dried. A piece is cut off at the neck of the bulb under the root crown. The inspector can thus tell whether the bulb is healthy or diseased. Planting time for bulbs starts in September. They are placed in carefully manured soil. Here in Holland they never plant the same kind of bulb twice in the same land, but alternate hyacinths with tulips. The narcissus is also a favorite of the Holland flower grower. These plants have been repeatedly crossed also, so there are many novelties. I saw a wonderful flower show while I was in Holland where there were not only these ordinary bulb flowers, but lovely iris almost as beautiful as orchids, anemones?one of the most perfect bore your name, Wilhelmina, the name of the Holland princess, now her majesty the queen, for whom you were christened. It looked like a butterfly resting on a slender green stalk ? I wished I might pick it and send it along in this letter. There were stately lilies and gorgeous peonies and amaryllis?forced of course for the exhibition, but making such a wonderful array of form and color and exhaling such perfume, that I felt I must have stepped into paradise. And how I wished, my dear, that you were there with me, doubling my happiness as sharing pleasures with loved ones always adds to the joy. My hotel is near your queen's royal palace. When I passed there yesterday I kissed my fingers toward it for you, but I said in my thoughts, "You may be a queen, your majesty, and sit on a gilded throne, but you can't be any sweeter or dearer or truer than your little namesake far across the seas who loves your lovely country though she has seen you both only in her dreams." Good night, my dear. Sometime you'll see it and enjoy it too. Neleh.