What Are the Movies Likely to Do to My Child? By Eva K. Thomas IN a general way, most of us are aware that the motion picture is a boon to mankind. So vast and far-reaching are its possibilities for the instruction and entertainment of humanity that did it not exist, we should, if we possessed enough imagination, pray for its invention. Dr. John J. Tigert, former United States Commissioner of Education, declares: "For the purpose of making and influencing public opinion and thought, the motion picture in its present stage is the most powerful influence now known. And as its use increases and its field of operation develops, its power to influence the public will increase." A good motion picture that travels throughout the country, penetrating into the smallest town, represents a social force which may be described as nothing short of a Godsend. The history of the movie in education has scarcely begun. Though educational films have been made and are being made, the domain of the text book is still largely unimpaired, but its monopoly is disputed. DEAN HOLMES of the Harvard School of Education announced the discovery that where talking motion pictures supplement the text book in class, knowledge of the students increase from 20% to 40%. Children have been found to retain an average of 70% of what an adult would carry away from a dramatic film, and in many cases after a lapse of months, the children actually remember more than they remembered directly, after seeing the picture. Obviously the film must emerge as one of the most potent of all educational instruments. With facts and implications like these, it can surprise no one that the wealth of motion pictures poured out annually from the studios shown to an audience conservatively estimated at 77,000,000 weekly in the United States alone should produce effects upon the conduct, behavior patterns, morals, and even upon the health of the younger spectators, that is those in their formative years, since these youngsters make up a little more than one-third of our audiences. In a survey made by M. M. Willey and S. A. Rice and issued by a Hoover commission in 1933, we find this statement: "Although the motion picture is primarily an agency for amusement, it is no less important as an influence in shaping attitudes and social values. The fact that it is enjoyed as entertainment may even enhance its importance in this respect. Any discussion of this topic must start with the realization that for the vast audience the pictures and films have tremendous vitality. Pictures and actors are regarded with a seriousness that is likely to escape the casual observer." Editors of popular motion picture magazines are deluged with letters from motion picture patrons, unburdening themselves of an infinite variety of feelings and attitudes, deeply personal, which focus around the lives and activities of those inhabiting the screen world. One editor receives 80,000 such letters a year. These are filled with self revelations which indicate sometimes deliberately, more often unconsciously, the influence of the screen upon manners, dress, codes, and matters of romance. In other words here is evidence of the influence of motion pictures and their impersonations upon the character, conduct, and behavior of vast numbers of our nation and especially upon our younger people. SOME years ago the Motion Picture Research Council realized the vast influence of the motion picture and succeeded in interesting the Payne Fund?a foundation devoted to the welfare of youth, in financing a nationwide research into the degrees of influence and effect of films upon children and youth. A group of social scientists, psychologists, sociologists, and educators, representatives of their fields in various Universities of the country under the general direction of Dr. W. W. Charters began that body of research which covered a four year period from 1929-1933. So much of the general notion concerning the movies consisted in surmise or guess work that the need for carefully collected data unbiased and free from prejudice became virtually imperative. Who, for instance, has not heard the assumption that movies stimulate to crime, to sexual misconduct, to imitation of crime technique, of patterns of loose living, of vulgar conduct and so on. Upon the one hand we know that some excellent pictures have been made and are still being made and that pictures in general supply entertainment and knowledge to audiences not hitherto reached by dramatic presentation. Yet upon the other hand we have men of the standing of Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler asserting that "The daily broadcasting of the passions and caprices and adventures of men and women in plays and on the screen, interpreted by ill equipped authors and directors, cannot but be destructive of ideals that have proved to be wholesome and worthy of preservation." Or as Professor Ernest W. Burgess of the University of Chicago concludes, "It is quite evident that the boy comes into contact with influences in the motion pictures that are in conflict with the standard of the home, the school and the Church." Dr. Herbert Blumer of the University of Chicago who has conducted a series of studies for the Payne foundation, finds that "the movies have helped to direct 10% of the boys and 25% of the girls into delinquent or criminal careers." DRS. RENSHAW, MILLER AND MARQUIS have conducted a series of studies on the effect movies have on the sleep of our children. They concluded, "that children from the age of six on exposed to the flood of movies pouring across the screen, even just one a week, seeing film plays loaded chiefly with the well known movie trinity of love, sex, and crime, with all the violence, vulgarity, and false values that so many movies have, become so excited as to lose sleep for a week, or that the other child will be so drugged and exhausted by emotional fatigue, that his sleep will be a kind of stupor. Which ever of the two happens, the price we pay is exorbitant. Sleep plays a tremendous role in the growth and health of children." THE screen is the most open of all books and when the young see pictures presented in a certain way, it is small wonder that the vividness of the reception of those scenes, owing to the youth and freshness of the spectators, makes of the movies a peculiarly incisive and important factor in schemes of conduct. The less experience the spectators have the less selective they naturally are. Coming to the young, as pictures do in the most impressionable years of their life, the effect becomes of extraordinary weight and potentiality and amounts often to a shaping and moulding of their character. Could we but have an equal emphasis upon high ideals, how tremendous would be the beneficent effect upon our children. So far as concerns adults, they are their own masters, to choose as they wish. Children however, are another matter. They deserve to be imbued with the best ideals that civilization affords. KATHLEEN NORRIS says "That the movies have slipped too often into an ugly groove of dramatized crime and twisted sex isn't wholly surprising. The whole world has slipped that way. Books and plays reflect the same thing." "We can't put the responsibility for all of this, or indeed much of it, on the movies. They don't pretend to be churches. They are produced by business men with the purpose of making money. Their aim is to please everyone. An unsuccessful movie costs so much that every effort has to be made to avoid failures, and if the people demand sex and crime stories the Hollywood authorities quite naturally turn them out. The movie danger lies in their accessibility and the frequency with which we attend them. Children get their morals, their manners, their ideas of life and the world, politics and social responsibility from the irresistible silver screen. It seems to me in acknowledging this?and everyone who has studied the situation at all does acknowledge it?that we also admit that we have failed our children. It is not for Hollywood to educate them, to develop in them selectiveness and fineness and self-control. That is our business. It is for us to realize once and for all that movies are either helping or undoing what we are trying to put into the souls and minds of our children, and 245 to see to it that the malleable little spirits and intellects are not poisoned."' "Who can object to the drive for clean pictures?" demands Samuel Goldwyn, one of our noted producers. "If motion picture production digresses, if sight is lost of the family as an audience, there seems to be reason for complaint." "Good taste must determine what is funny in a smoking room and what is funny on the screen. I don't know what rules and what codes can be drawn up to express it, and I don't know who could interpret them." "Only one restriction can ever exist. That is the sound economy of picture production for the family. It must be realized that the photoplay enters the home in its thought, its mood, its manner, its story, a realization that it must be fit for the home is the practical basis for the censorship of any picture." A EUROPEAN proverb has it that from the same timber may be hewn either a cross or a shovel. It is the use of a great invention that determines its service to us. The motion pictures, though at times misused, have also at times shown by certain specimens and examples how immense can be their service for wholesome pleasure, entertainment, and even enlightenment, to their vast audiences. Since the motion picture has assuredly come to stay, the points upon which everyone of us, whether as parent or as citizen, urgently desires information are, What are the movies likely to do to my child? How are they likely to affect the children and young people of our country, the parents and citizens of the future? What influence will they impart to our homes? Are they in their present forms an asset or a liability to the progress of our national development?