The Complaining Teacher and the Homes That Are Hard to Enter By Merling D. Clyde Mrs. Tyler (over the telephone): 'Yes, Oh, she won't be able to go? That is too bad. I can go alone if you wish. Oh, you are substituting Sister Horton. She is a dear. (Looks from the window.) I can see her coming now. I'll hurry and meet her. Yes, thank you. Goodbye." (Puts on wraps. Exits.) Home. A little white-faced, busy mother answers a knock at the door. Admits two teachers. "Come in, sisters. (Shakes hands.) What a nice surprise, Sister Horton, to see you. How are you Sister Tyler. Find seats if you can. (Has to move little clothing from chairs.) I must apologize for the way this place looks. Five children having measles at one time rather upsets a home. But they are back in school now." Mrs. Tyler (taking a seat gingerly on the edge of a chair): "Oh, we didn't come to see your house. (Looks around critically.) It's such a dirty time anyway. Was just telling Rob this morning I have to clean my windows twice a week, I get so nervous with things in a mess." Mrs. Horton: "Did you say your children were all down at once. I'm so sor?" Mrs. T.: "Yes, she's surely had a time. We haven't had them yet, and I do hope we don't get them, either. I always scrub the children before they enter the house to get the germs off. Rob says I'm too fussy. I was coming over to help Sister Clark here, but seems like I never get through." Mother: "That was sweet of you to think of us. But you know how good John is to help. I'll have to tell you a joke on him. He wanted to bathe the boys last night. I heard the twins giggling away in bed. And what do you think, those little tykes had let him bathe the same one twice." (All laugh.) Mother, continuing: "But we did get along fine. The elders came in each day and we were all blessed. And how are you, dear Sister Horton?" Mrs. H.: "I have been exceptionally well, thanks to my Heavenly Father." Mrs. T.: "It seems so good to hear someone say they are well. You know, I suffer so all the time. And I've just received a letter from my son, and they are out of work. I just don't know how I'll ever wait on them if they come home to live. It disrupts a home so." Mrs. H.: "One has to make the best of each trial that comes, Sister Tyler. It is said in the Good Book 'In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set one over against the other that man should find nothing after him.' (Turns to mother.) I'm afraid we are detaining you from your work. And we must be going on to the other homes. We have such a lovely topic this month. I was hoping we would be able to discuss it with you. But I hope you will be able to come to meeting Tuesday." Mother: "Do you have a different topic each month?" Mrs. T.: "Oh, we miss giving the topic so many times. Seems like we just get to talking and the time slips by. Most of them have the Magazine, anyway." (They all rise.) Mrs. H. Takes the mother's hand. Mrs. H.: "I wish I had known you were all ill, and I'm glad to know you are well again. I'll come over in a day or so. Be of good cheer, and may the Lord bless you, dear." Mother: "Thank you, Sister Horton. Do come again, both of you. Goodbye." (Inside of next home visible to audience. A square placard states "Rees' Maternity Home." Mother and grown daughter folding babies clothes or ironing, mother looks out sees teachers coming.) Mother: "Mary, here come the Relief Society teachers, and one is dear old Sister Horton. It is like a tonic to have her come." Daughter: "Do you think she will present the topic?" Mother: "Oh, I do hope she will. I love to discuss it with them when I can't get out to meetings. A Maternity home doesn't leave one free to attend church." Outside: The teachers in view of audience walk up to the door. (A corner of the front stage.) Mrs. Tyler: "We won't get in here." Mrs. H.: "There must be someone home. She has several patients." Mrs. T.: "That is always the case, but I seldom raise anyone." (Knocks loudly, and long.) Mother opens door: "How do you do, sisters. Come in." (Shakes hands. Seats them.) Turns to Mrs. Horton. "Where is Gwen today?" Mrs. H.: "She had her daughter's children to tend while the mother went on the Temple excursion. So I am substituting." Mother: "Well, it's nice to have you come. What beautiful message do you bring me today? I'm in need of cheer, being tied like this, you know." Mrs. H.: "I love to come, too. I'm always glad to do what I can to help carry these beautiful messages of our Gospel. And it is an especially lovely one today. It is taken from the twenty-seventh Psalm: 'The Lord is my light and my salvation?whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid?' " Mother: "And we have all been crying about depression and troublesome times. That is how David sustained his faith, wasn't it? By repeating the promises God has made to his children. If only we weren't so weak!" Mrs. H.: "Yes, we do grow away from Him, depending upon ourselves, and crying that evil is falling our way." Mother: "I love to read the Psalms. One of my favorites is in the next chapter, I believe it's the twenty-eighth. Mary, will you please hand me my Bible. Thank you, dear. (Turns to passage.) I should know this by heart as many times as I read it: 'The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in Him, and I am helped, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth and with my song will I praise Him.' It is a continuation of your theme, isn't it? I get so much comfort from those words." Mrs. H.: "Yes. We should all remember to draw upon His strength when He makes such promises to us. In another place it says: 'Blessed is the Nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom He has chosen for His inheritance.' We know that we are that people, but only as we have hope in His Name will He have mercy upon us." Mrs. Tyler: "Only this morning I was fault-finding with my lot. Then I picked up the paper and saw how blessed I am here in the valleys of the mountains. It made me very humble." Mrs. H.: "I've praised God, too, that I am of the Chosen People. Still, I wonder if we do not take it for granted that we will all be saved because of His great promises to us. Rather should we be looking to our individual lives to see if we deserve salvation. I wonder often that God is so patient with me when I merit so little at His hands." Mrs. T.: "If anyone ever merited salvation, Sister Horton, it is you." Mrs. H.: "You are more than kind, my dear sister, but you do not know my weaknesses. But I try to study and obey those in authority. Some of the greatest good that has come to me has been through my Relief Society teaching. It is the greatest privilege that mortal woman can have." Mrs. Tyler and Mother: "Indeed, it is." (All rise.) Mrs. H.: "We must not detain you longer." (Shakes hand of daughter who has been an interested listener. Invites her to meetings. Takes mother's hand. "I hope you can leave sometimes to attend meetings. I've enjoyed visiting with you. It is such a pleasure to discuss the topic in interested homes. May God bless your home and those who are under your loving care. Goodbye." Mother: "Goodbye, dear sisters. It has been such a pleasure to have you come." Curtain: Outside, as the two teachers walk along. Mrs. Tyler: Dear, Sister Horton, this has been the most wonderful afternoon I have spent in years. I am glad you came with me, for I have had a lesson in spirituality and teaching. You are God-inspired. Don't you know, I never realized that the members on my district were heart-hungry to discuss these beautiful topics?" Mrs. H.: "If we prepare ourselves with study God will always open the way for us to be of service, thereby broadening our ?" and the voices trail away as the women disappear off stage. APRIL'S PROMISE By Linnie Parker As I watch the tiny buds burst out And the dainty leaves unfold Or see the dandelion lift Its head of purest gold? As my feet tread o'er the fresh, new grass Where not so long ago There lay just dead and withered blades Covered with lifeless snow? I wonder, as Nature comes to life,? The trees and flow'rs and grain? How anyone could ever doubt That man will live again; For if such a magic, living thing As Spring can come to pass, If God can breathe new life into Each flower and blade of grass, How well we know that rich, new life To each of us He'll bring? Spring comes to tell us there awaits For us?a greater Spring!