Art at Eighty By Fay Ollerton A GOOD many people remember Anna Larsen Gillespie, christened Ane Larsen over in Serrisklev, Denmark, many years ago. She has been a librarian at the Brigham Young University since 1906, when Dr. Brimhall persuaded her she would enjoy a library more than a schoolroom. She was tall and slender then, bright-eyed and alert with tiny lines in her face and white hair in natural waves. Now at seventy-nine she catalogues where once she presided, but she is still tall, slender and alert. The fine lines are etched a little deeper, the white waves bobbed. "You don't look a day older," returning students say in honest amazement, "how do you do it?" "I'm not older," she tells them, a bit of a "humph" in her voice as she looks up from her books with a quick smile, "I'm too busy to grow old." "But when are you going to quit working so hard?" they persist. "With all the work there is to be done!" she remonstrates as she lays down her pen and looks out at Timpanogos. "I'd like to take a year off and go to an art school," she says, desire in her voice. So that's the secret! She wants to go to an art school when she is eighty! Lucky woman even to think of art at her age. Is that art school yearning a sudden interest or is it something carried over from other days? There was a rumor she had not used her pencil or brush until she was seventy years of age. She scoffed at that: "I was always drawing things when I was a child in school, all over my slates and books. 'You're wasting time doing that,' the teachers would scold me, 'and you'll come to no good end doing it.' But I went right on drawing." Determined she was in many things. There is a story about her going from Fountain Green to Salt Lake with an older woman to meet an emigrant train. The two of them camped on the Eighth Ward Square, now the City and County block. The train was delayed and day after day little Ane hung out their washing on the sagebrush that grew on the edges of the Square and wondered what there would be to eat for dinner. One day when there was nothing left but some very old and hard bread, she went alone because the companion had forbidden her going ?they would starve first, she vowed to seek for food. "I picked out the biggest houses," Ane said afterwards, "and told them what had happened. And I came home with my apron full of good things to eat." Later she became a school teacher, a good one who went away to school so that she would be more fit. And once she took art lessons in Provo. "I didn't create anything," she explained quickly. "I didn't think I could do much so I just copied from other paintings." Sometimes she would give her copies for wedding presents, and when she was married she painted her bread box and her spice cans. It was not until she was seventy years old that she openly espoused art. "Bert Esmond said to me, 'Annie, why don't you go up to Aspen Grove and study under Bent Larsen?' 'Why I couldn't learn anything,' I answered him, and he told me I was denying my talent." It took courage to go to the school that first summer. Most of the students were young things who could trail their easels over the Wasatch range all day and climb Timpanogos at night. But not many of them could outdo Annie Gillespie. She walked with the best of them. "It was foolish to think of climbing Timp.," she said, "but I could do everything else." THAT summer started things. Another vacation she studied with Mr. Randolph of the California School and another with Lee Green Richards. Portrait painting, however, is not her forte. She prefers landscapes. In oil and water colors she painted pictures her friends wanted hung in their living rooms, and Provo, remember, takes its art seriously. But never was she satisfied with what she had done. It was only learning with her. She took more interest in reading about art and artists. First there was Elbert Hubbard with his glimpses into the lives of the old masters; later thick books by artists and critics. Always when she finishes reading she writes down the stirrings of her mind. "You never learn much from reading unless you do," she states with conviction. Mrs. Gillespie is ultra-modest about her pictures. Most of them she gives to her friends. When a newspaper man wrote that she sold the main part of her paintings she grew very angry. "I never heard of such a thing," she stormed, but admitted in a calmer moment that she did sell a few. Those who know her well tell with pleasure of a nephew in another state who not only ordered her pictures for his new home but also for his hospital. BUT just how does she manage to work her eight hours a day, to paint, and to keep up with the busy social and cultural life of a university town? In the first place she practices the "early to bed and early to rise" part of the old maxim. If she is tired she goes to bed right after supper? unless there is a party, a wedding, a concert, a play, or a sick friend. At six in the morning, with due allowance for the darkest winter months, she is out of bed and ready for her newspaper, a bit of reading, or work. A few minutes before eight she has on her hat and coat, waiting for the automobile which takes her to the Grant Library on the hill. That much concession she makes to seventy-nine. "But I still walk a lot," she declares, "every evening when I can and down town to attend to business." Noon time, Provo weather permitting, she likes to sit in the sun. Occasional spring mornings she thinks she would like to sit all day, but when five o'clock comes she is the last of the library trio to leave, grumbling a little that she can't stay longer when there is so much work to be done. After she comes from the Library she paints, rests, or reads a little. At a musical she may doze a bit, but if it is a lecture she is on the front row enjoying every word. Week ends, when she isn't painting or otherwise busy, she is apt to spend in Salt Lake with her son. Eating? Mrs. Gillespie is sensible about that: "I eat almost anything I want, but I don't care for very much and I learned a long time ago that the simpler things are best." Clothes she likes. "People ought to dress well if they can," she insists, and because her friends like to see her in white and pastel shades she eschews the dark and somber colors. Being slender and possessed of a spring in her walk, she can wear the new clothes as charmingly as a girl. "I'm not old," she says again. "Why should I be when I feel as well as I do. I want you to see my new picture sometime," she adds, her voice softening. "It's one of Timpanogos. I've been working on it for a long time and it's the first thing I've done that satisfies me. "Of course," she adds hastily, "it's not finished yet." Next year, when she is eighty, she would like to take a year off and go to art school. There's one in San Francisco she would like and she thinks she would enjoy a winter in California. "I could," she says, desire again strong in her voice, "paint all I want to then."