Pussy Willows By C. Frank Steele "SEE you at dinner time, ma! Goodbye! This from little Freddie. "Bye, mother! And, mother ? please don't forget?I've just got to have my new dress for Beth Watson's party next week. Can't you get it today? I want something new so badly, mother. My clothes are all so shabby, mother, and the rest of the girls are getting new spring outfits." This from Betty Ann. And Frances Beattie kissed her two eager children as they dashed to school. "Be sure to be home early, children, for dinner. And, Betty Ann, don't worry. You shall have your new dress for the party." They were gone. Dinner! A new dress! The words fell dark and leaden on the heart of Frances Beattie. She had pinched through the winter somehow, but today, as well she knew, the family larder was all but empty. Nothing save a few bare necessities were on the shelves that Harold Beattie once kept laden with the good things of the season. But a succession of dry years, unemployment, and depressed markets had changed all this, and the Beattie family were on the verge of want. Only his heroic, resourceful wife? and well Harold Beattie knew it? had kept the family off relief. Often it was a mystery to the anxious but helpless Harold, how she had kept the children fed and their few clothes clean and neatly mended. AND now it was coming Spring and a mellowing breeze from the distant, lilac-colored hills cooled the cheeks of Frances Beattie. She smiled through tears that had welled up in her eyes. She was her own grave, courageous, optimistic self again. Spring was calling. Harold had left the farm early for a neighboring town where a little construction work was reported to be opening up. There he hoped to find employment. Baby Harold had finished his porridge and was tugging at his mother's dress pleading for a walk. And why not? She would just walk down the familiar path to Berry Creek and back. The thought was genuinely alluring after the long, cold winter with its countless tasks and anxieties. Once out in the great, open world, feeling the first magic of spring, life looked changed. It was early morning. Already the grass was green, the crocuses were blooming here and there along the hillside's sunny slopes and it seemed from a score of points in the fields the meadowlarks were heralding their return. The prairie mother listened. The song of the birds was a song of new hope. "O mumsy?look!" cried Baby Harold, pointing a pink finger at a clump of pussy willows near the tiny stream now racing joyously through the happy valley. "Mumsy, let's get some," the child shouted, running ahead to gather some of the fuzzy little harbingers of spring. Pussy willows, large, fresh, beautiful soft pussy willows! Frances Beattie paused in admiration as she surveyed the display before which her little son was dancing. Her face was a study. Who does not love these pretty, silver-tipped cuttings in early spring? Could she?could it be done? Why not? THE next day was Saturday. Harold Beattie had not returned and Frances was worried. Bridgetown was 22 miles away and she had to get there and get there early. By six o'clock she was watching the road. An hour passed and just as it seemed that her vigil was to end in failure there appeared a city-bound car. She soon saw it was Charlie Pearce at the wheel of the ancient auto chugging noisily down the highway. Beside him sat his wife, Martha. "Mr. Pearce, O Mr. Pearce?are you going to town?" cried Frances from the doorway of her front room. The car came to a stop in front of the gate. "Yes, we're off to town. Going to market, Mrs. Beattie?" This from the good-natured driver. "Why, Frances, what on earth have you got to sell?" asked Martha peering curiously out of the car at his neighbor. "Pussy willows!" And Frances laughed. "What!" This from the Pearces in unison. "Yes, pussy willows. Those city folk will snap them up in a hurry, Mr. Pearce?in fact, they've got to. May I ride to town with you, and may I place my pussy willows in your stall, please?" "Why, sure, Frances, but I think it's a pack of foolishness. You're just a wastin' your time. Why Martha has a terrible time getting rid of her butter and eggs and fresh meat and things like that. So I can't see anybody a buyin' pussy willows. But come along, Frances." And soon Frances and her great clusters of pussy willows were in the car and along with them a sign in gay colors: "Greet the Spring with fresh-cut Pussy Willows! Only 25 cents a bunch!" IT was eight o'clock that night when Frances Beattie climbed out of the Pearce auto and presented herself to her anxious family awaiting her return. They were standing in the doorway to give her a welcome. Mr. Beattie had returned and was holding Baby Harold in his arms. As the parcel-laden Frances made her way into the house she assumed the role of a belated Santa Claus. Mysterious packages were tossed about and opened with amazing rapidity. "Marbles, candies, cookies?and real new overalls!" It was Freddie who screamed his delight. "Joy, O joy! My new dress. O mother, you're wonderful," cried Betty Ann rushing to her mother with a volley of kisses. "And it's mauve, just the shade we've talked about, isn't it, mother?" "And Daddy, look?here's a new wheelbarrow for me. Now I can help in the garden!" It was Baby Harold's turn to rejoice and he did it with eyes shining. "Frances, dear, tell me how you did it?" asked the puzzled husband looking from the children's gifts to a box of groceries that Mr. Pearce had pushed in through the door. Frances smiled. "Pussy willows ?a new cash crop," she replied.