Pine Ways By Linnie Fisher Robinson IT was springtime in Bethany, little Phebe sat in the afternoon sunshine upon her father's house. Of many things, she liked the sun the best, liked to feel it caressingly about her. It was almost like seeing, for Phebe was blind. This hour her brother sat beside her and talked of many things; he noted now her delicate and exquisite features, her dainty form, and tried anew to show her what his eyes beheld. "But a little way to our south," he said, "is Bethlehem, and on the hills the shepherds tend their flocks. It is very beautiful there by night." He cast his eyes toward the North, many people were now passing to and from Jerusalem, a mile or so away. The road wound downward to walls white in the sunshine. Lowering his voice, he told her of a man named Jesus whom he had seen and heard beside the sea of Galilee. "And many souls believe and hear who never saw or heard on Him," he added, "and many see before, and many walk who were lame. But many hate Him bitterly and seek His life." Phebe raised her eyes wonderingly, trying to understand. Her eyes were brown with little flecks of gold in them, like the tints in the deep brown of her hair. "His hair is like yours, Phebe," he said, "so are His eyes; He seems to see So far, so very far?" his voice died away into his thoughts. Ten long years he had led this little sister by the hand over the rocky heights of Bethany; and ten long years neighbors and friends alike had avoided them because of this affliction. Phebe didn't know, they hadn't told her, she was but four when she had fondled a little sightless lamb and then she had been ?cursed? No! Not cursed. He'd always known it wasn't that, life was far too beautiful to do that. He loved even the rocks that crowded in the streets and the beauty of Jerusalem so high upon the hills. And now see what this man Jesus had said, when He healed the blind beggar by the way, "neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him." Yet people crossed the street before their door, and many whispers speculated on the hidden evil of his parents. "And He is coming now to Bethany?" questioned Phebe, a look of joy upon her face. "It is to the home of Mary and Martha he comes this day, He is on His way to Jerusalem, and it is whispered they will crown Him King." THE sun's last rays were fading in the west, turning the world to gold, in the glow Phebe leaned forward toward the road, a large company of people were drawing near, Phebe listened to the noise of footsteps and mingled voices. "Jesus leads the company," her brother whispered, "I wish that you could see Him, Phebe, but I will take you to Him, yet ere night falls." "But I?I already see," breathed the girl in wonder, "and oh far more, I see the Love He has for all mankind. I vow to love others and do for them as He would have me." Amidst the tumult and the noise Jesus, perceiving virtue had gone out of Him, gave the girl a reassuring glance and then passed on. A TIRED little woman with wavy brown hair, graying about her temples, sat before a gathering of saints, in the home of Aquilla and Priscilla in far away Rome. Aquilla had finished the business of the evening; he was concluding his talk: "And now," he said, reading from a letter, "Paul says, 'I commend unto you Phebe, our sister which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh Saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you, for she hath been a succorer of many and of myself also.' " Aquilla looked up, "now as you already know, Phebe has followed where ever there are saints organized, to assist those who have the love of Jesus in their hearts, to care for the sick and needy. We are honored by her presence: Sister Phebe is tired from her long journey, but will salute you." From beside Aquilla the tired little form arose, she wondered what she could say this night. And then again, as many years ago, she saw the form of Jesus coming up the toilsome road to Bethany, His face turned toward the great tower of David, looming in the distance, high above the walls of Jerusalem; the eyes of her understanding were opened and she saw again His great love for all men; it was this, coupled with the testimony of her blessing, that had ever carried her on. Those crowded there saw the pale face flush, the shoulders straighten, her eyes became luminous and tender. In a voice full and vibrant she saluted them and said, "I had almost forgotten, it is nearing the day of our Lord's birth, who laid down His life for us. It is a great privilege to begin this night an organization to care for the least of His; we can do nothing better than express our love for Him in gifts to the needy. Our brother Paul is himself carrying comfort to the afflicted saints in Jerusalem from the saints of Macedonia and Achaia. He sends you special greetings, as have all his fellow workers; and I repeat, be happy in the blessings of Christ Jesus. If ye are doing good and have good will towards all, be ye blessed so many times more?" And so, in Rome, many miles from Bethany, relief was organized, and many back along the route of her travels carried aid and cheer to saddened hearts.