[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 172 | Fiction | To Warm the Heart Third Prize Story Hazel | M. Thomson]
THIRD PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest To Warm the Heart Hazel M. Thomson w Catherine York's years as an indentured servant to Judge Andrews of Boston, for his payment of her passage from England, had, for the most part, passed very pleasantly. Even though her days had been filled with cleaning and washing and cooking, the work had not been disagreeable to Catherine. And this was largely because of the stove. Se had had no liking for it in the beginning. It had appeared so big and black and unfriendly in her youthful eyes. At times, when she had been particularly unsuccessful is preparing a meal, burning not only the meat but the vegetables as well, only the Judge's good humor kept her from crying. "You must be thinking you're back home, cooking dinner over a smoky peat fireplace, lass,' he would say, his eyes twinkling. His daughters, Lily, about Catherine's own age of nineteen, and Hilma, a year younger, did not take her failures in such good grace. "Really, Father!" Lily had wrinkled up her pretty 172 e. Sa little nose as she looked at the food before her, placing her fork back on her plate. "Can't we hire another cook? I don't see how you can expect us to eat this kind of a dinner." "I can't and I won't!" Hilma stamped her little foot as she stood beside her chair, preparing to leave the table, but her father motioned for her to take her place again at his side. "Now, daughters, give her time. Catherine had never seen a stove before she came here, but she will learn." And Catherine had learned. Even then, as she looked at the glowing fire in the grate, she wondered whether the stove was really laughing at her failure, or was it simply trying to be friendly? In time it came to be the best friend she had, and an invitation to sit at Judge Andrews' table was a favor not to be overlooked. Catherine learned to use the daniper to regulate the fire so that it would burn fast or slow. She found that there were strategic spots where she could place the cooking pots for quick cookEE ing or merely to keep the food warm. She learned to use the two small warming ovens and the huge baking oven, which brought her the reputation of being the best cook in Boston. The reservoir on the end of the stove opposite the grate, if she filled it each time, yielded enough hot water to make dishwashing almost pleasant. The metal box into which the ashes fell seemed to Catherine to be the most wonderful of inventions. How convenient it was to take the box out and empty it without scraping and shoveling as one had to to clean a fireplace. It became almost a labor of love to keep the black surface and lids bright and shiny, and Catherine began to feel that she could understand the stove; that on certain days the fire was sluggish and scarcely wanted to move; that on other days, when a brisk wind was blowing, the fire fairly raced on its way up the chimney, just as she, herself, at times, was able to race through the housework of the big mansion, and on other days every small task seemed to drag. To Warm the Heart It was the stove that she thought of leaving, first, when her years of servitude came to an end, almost simultaneously with her conversion and baptism. Her acceptance of the new religion was wholehearted and she began planning to join a group of other con- »verts in their journey to some-. Where far to the west called '"The ' Valley of the Great Salt Lake." The night before she left, Judge Andrews had given a ball, and, for the first time, Catherine was not expected to spend the evening in the kitchen. Also, for the first time, she had danced with Granville Bott. He had even taken her to the punch bow! For a drink of the delicious fruit mix that Catherine herself had made. That was when she heard the girls laughing. "T mean, really!" Catherine stood very still. Without turning, she knew the voice — Lily Andrews. "Trust Granville. He's determined to have a lady friend while crossing those horrid old plains, even if it has to be Cath!" "¥ do wish Papa would go. It doesn't matter to me _ what religion we are. Why, there']l scarcely be anyone left in Boston after tomorrow." That had been Hilma's voice, the younger of the two sisters, and the one everybody, including Cath, had thought Granville preferred. "T mean, really." It was Lily again. ''Let's don't encourage Papa to do that. There have been times when I was afraid he was becoming a bit interested in all this Mormon talk. But I have no desire to start out on a long wagon trip behind two old cows. I 

173 March 1967

 am perfectly content to stay right here in Boston where living is quite civilized." It occurred to Cath that she had been eavesdropping, but she stood rooted to the spot, unable to move. She heard the girls' laughter as they moved away. Cath learned that it wasn't cows at all that pulled the Miller wagon, in which she traveled, but two lovely big oxen named Red and Barney. To arise each morning and feel that your life was your own, to help Sister Miller because she wanted to, not because she felt a crushing obligation, gave Cath a feeling of freedom she could not remember having known before. She was invited, yes, indeed expected, to be in attendance at the meetings which were held and, almost to her amazement, she found that her opinion was accepted and valued in testimony meetings, just as was that of the leader of the wagon train. It seemed so foreign to her, to be included, to be treated as an equal. Tren there were the evenings; after the heat and dust of the day, the wonderful, glorious coolness of evening. The animals could be heard, contentedly munching grass nearby. As the fiddle music filled the night air, it fairly set her feet to tapping. No longer did she need to stay in the kitchen, taking care of the refreshments, watching and wishing. She had partners just waiting their turns to dance with her. And most persistent of all was Granville Bott. He insisted on the first dance and the last dance and one or two in between. "IT want the last dance," he 174 said. "It gives me a chance to ask for the first one tomorrow night before these other Romeos move in. I want it and I intend to have it." Her heart pounded at his words, remembering how she had watched him dance with the most beautiful girls in Boston, having neither the opportunity nor the dress to join the dancing herself. Woman-like, Catherine wondered what Hilma Andrews would say if she had heard. She wondered, too, about the tall, red-haired young man who played the violin, night after night, for the dancing. Benjamin Shepherd. She had learned his name, but that was about all she had learned, except that Bishop Miller said he was so tall he made all the other men seem as if they were standing in a hole. She found Herself wondering whether all the attention she had received was making her vain. Ben Shepherd was the only unmarried man in camp who had not asked her for a dance. Oh, he could use his violin playing as an excuse for not dancing, still she had seen him lay it aside, letting the banjo and mandolin carry the melody while he whirled through a dance with his sister, before returning to his playing. Yet, on occasion, she knew he was watching her and she was puzzled. She was tempted a time or two to ask him when they announced ladies' choice, but she never did. It seemed a little too forward on her part, since he had not once danced with her. Besides, Granville was always near to meet her halfway on the ladies' dances. The last night on the plains, before the wagon train entered the mountains, a special celebration was held. "We'll find it harder going in the mountains," Granville said, "without much room for dancing, so let's get going tonight!" It was during their second square dance together that Cath made a wrong turn and mixed up the entire set. Her embarrassment deepened as she returned to meet Granville. "What's the matter, Cath?" he asked. "You'd do better if you get your eyes off that red-headed fiddle player and pay attention." Her cheeks burned and she was grateful for the darkness. She had been more obvious than she realized, unaware that Granville had noticed. She knew now that Ben did not intend to ask her for a dance. This, the very last one, and there he sat, holding that violin as if it meant more to him than all the girls in camp, and it probably did. Crossing the plains was one thing, but traveling through the mountains was quite another. Catherine could not remember ever having been so tired, not after cleaning Judge Andrews' entire house, cooking and serving the dinner and cleaning up after everyone else had gone to sleep. She crawled into her blankets under the Miller wagon so exhausted that she could scarcely © distinguish one tune from another as Ben Shepherd's violin sang far into the night. It was only after they entered the Valley that Catherine did get that long-awaited dance. There was a regular orchestra to play, and for once Ben had left his violin at home. She sat between Brother and To Warm the Heart Sister Miller, and watched the couples on the floor, her toe keeping time to the music. Granville had not come. In fact, she had seen very little of him since their arrival. "They're not going to give me just any old spot of land that suits their fancy," he had said. "I'll find the piece I want and Pll have it. I didn't come all this way to end up with nothing. It may take a bit of managing, but I can do it." "That's probably where he is right now," reflected Catherine, "out managing." And then she saw Ben approaching. "May I have the honor of this dance, Miss York?" She placed her hand in his and almost gravely they joined the dancers on the floor. Cath wondered whether she only imagined a special something in his touch as he took her hand in the grand right and left. As they whirled he held her, not tight—just sort of, well, something like the way he held his violin. "How many times I've wanted te dance with you," he whispered, his lips quite against her ear. "How many times!" "But, why...?" Catherine stopped. The pattern of the dance carried her away from him, to another partner, and another, and she was glad. Perhaps what 

175 March 1967

 she had been about to say would have been unladylike. But she had said enough. When the music stopped, Ben continued the conversation just as though there had been no interruption. "You always seemed to be hav: ing such a good time with Bott that I felt I had no right to intervene. But he isn't here tonight and I'm staking a claim."'. She raised her brown eyes to his and was almost startled with the clear blue intensity of them. She felt the seriousness of his mood, and from that moment she was sure that one day he would ask her to marry him. It was then that a thought which had been nagging at her from the back of her mind began to push itself forward. It was a thought of which she could not be particularly proud, still it persisted. Sometimes her nobler self would have pushed it aside, but her more practical nature insisted on bringing it back. Granville Bott had a stove. Cath had never actually seen it, knowing from the camp talk that it was there, in his wagon. Granville had traveled alone. Once when there had been some sickness in camp, Cath had heard the Captain of Ten ask him whether he could take a passenger in his wagon. His answer had been short and to the point. "There's no room, Captain. You can see for yourself. I'm full up." Later that afternoon, Bishop Miller left a fine bureau standing on the plains, which left room for elderly Sister Abbott to lie down near the back of the wagon as they continued the journey. 176 The thought was there, and unwelcome as it was to her more noble self, it kept recurring. The girl who married Granville Bott would never have to contend with troublesome fireplace cooking. That winter proved to be the most enjoyable in all of Catherine York's young life. There were parties and dances and plays. There was either Granville or Ben, and sometimes both, eager to escort her. Neither spoke of marriage, but to each it seemed a time of waiting, not disregarding the thought. When each man began to build a house, Catherine was quite aware of it, just as she was aware of the differences in the houses. She walked past Granville's once or twice since it was close to town, east on Brigham Street. He was hiring most of the labor done and she felt it unlikely that she would meet him. It would be a beautiful house, two-story with gingerbread trim, one of which anyone in Boston could have been proud. Ben's was farther out to the south on his piece of farm land that he had received in the drawing. Catherine had seen it only once, when the first logs had been put in place. It would be a cabin; two rooms, but, still, it was a cabin. As springtime came she saw less and less of Ben. He was busy clearing his land and plowing and planting. "I'm working long _ hours, Cath," he had said. 'After getting the land cleared, I'll be late in planting as it is, and I must have a harvest. When it comes I'll be in a position to speak." Her heart pounded and she fairly seemed to melt under the piercing blue of his eyes. He had stooped and kissed her then, once and hard. "Till harvest time," he said softly. It happened so quickly that Cath wondered afterward whether it had really happened at all. Granville wondered, too. "I can't understand what's happened to Shepherd," he said upon more than one occasion. "There was a time when he was in my way every time I turned around. I haven't laid eyes on him for weeks." The memory of their parting was brought vividly to her mind and Cath had not answered. Somehow she felt a little annoyed with Ben. If he really loved her, why had he not asked her to stop seeing Granville? He hadn't mentioned it, leaving the decision entirely to her, and at present her decision was to keep going with Granville. He was good company and she enjoyed especially the plays they saw together. He had seen most of them at other times and places with different actors and actresses. His comparisons were both enlightening and interesting to her meager background in the theater... During the plays she had seen with Ben, his comments had been of a different nature. "Actors?" he had said. "I don't know one from the other. To me they are real people, and all this is really happening to them, and while the play lasts, I live it with them." Yes, the two men were different; as different as the houses To Warm the Heart they were building, and again Cath remembered the huge, imposing house on Brigham Street that would have a cookstove in the kitchen. Then, on an afternoon late in July, Ben did put in an appearance. Lean and bronzed from long hours in the sun, he was more handsome than Cath remembered. She was preparing to leave for a drive behind Granville's high-stepping ponies when Ben rode up. "Rather an outsize riding pony you have there, Shepherd," said Granville, picking up the lines of his spirited team. "TI have no riding horse,' Ben answered evenly, 'Only my team. I've been working them pretty hard and thought there was no need of bringing both of them." "TI was able to trade my work horses for these ponies," said Granville. "They are almost as fast as the team I had in Boston." Cath kept her eyes on Ben's face, but he kept his own eyes averted. He certainly wasn't acting much like he came to see her. He answered her question as though she had spoken. "President Young sent me, Granville. Seems as though there is a company of saints approaching the mountains that has just about exhausted its store of provisions. We have five outfits now, ready to leave right away with supplies for them. We need one more team and wagon and President Young suggested you might be willing to go." "Well, now," said Granville, "you just might explain to the President that I traded my work horses for these ponies. Besides I have to be here, to see that the 

177 March 1967

 work goes forward on my house." As he spoke, Granville reached out one hand and placed it casually and yet possessively on Catherine's shoulder. "As you say," Ben answered. He nodded slightly to Granville and lifted his hat to Cath in farewell, as he turned the work horse and headed back in the direction of his own place. Dorinc the following weeks Cath remembered Ben's eyes, watching, as Granville held her shoulder, knowing that she had given the impression of agreeing with his action. She wished she had drawn away; she wished she had spoken up and said—something—anything to indicate that she did not belong to Granville; she wished.... She was not sure just what she did wish, particularly at those times when she rode with him past the big house on Brigham Street. Then, one afternoon in early September, he drew the team to a halt and together they entered the door, Catherine York and Granville Bott. Inside, the house was more beautiful than Cath had ever imagined. The floors and woodwork were beautiful, surpassing even Judge Andrews' home in Boston. And in the kitchen, there it was! That marvelous, wonderful, scarce item, the kitchen range. "How will you like it here, Cath, having this whole big house to ourselves, after being cooped up with the Millers?" Catherine was imagining herself taking golden-crusted pies from the bake oven as she heard his question. The vision disap- 178 peared abruptly. Why, he had not even bothered to propose, simply assuming that neither she nor any girl could think of refusing him. Suddenly her indecision of the past was gone. She faced him squarely, positive now that the warmth of a home does not come from the fire in a kitchen range. "I am not moving into this house, Granville. I like living at the Miller's. No, you needn't come with me. I'm going to enjoy every step of the walk back." Cath turned and left the kitchen without even glancing at the stove, closing the door quickly behind her. The following afternoon Sister Miller prepared a big basket of lunch and asked Catherine to accompany her in taking it to the bishop. Not until they had ridden almost out of the city did Catherine learn that they were headed for the Shepherd farm. "Ben was gone so long, taking those provisions to the newcomers that his quorum members began to fear his grain would thresh out on the ground. George says he never saw such grain. The men have been harvesting it all this week, and he thought they would finish this afternoon. Ben didn't get home until yesterday." Sister Miller slapped the line against the side of the brown horse to make him step up with the gray. As the horse jumped a bit forward, Cath felt her heart give a resounding thump. Ben was home! In a short few minutes she would see him. She reached a hand to her hair, smoothing it under the brim of her sunbonnet. Ben was there, standing in front of his cabin. He greeted both women, then tied the team to the hitching post before helping them down. Sister Miller alighted first, carrying the lunch basket to where the men were seated in the shade of the willows near the spring. After a moment, Cath realized Ben was still holding her hand. She drew it away, slowly. "I—I'm_ glad you're back, Ben." "Are you, Cath? Are you really? The bishop tells me you've been seeing an awful lot of Granville. Are you—promised now, Cath?" "No, Ben. Not now, nor ever to Granville. I couldn't make him a promise when I loved someone else." Her meaning was plain from her manner, her eyes, the tone of her voice. Ben caught it at once, as he caught her to him. To a man, the harvesters stopped their eating for the moment and watched. As the kiss ended they looked at each other and grinned, turning their attention again to the lunch at hand. Ben saw. He took her hand and almost ran with her toward the cabin, out of sight of the others. "It isn't a house like Granville To Warm the Heart could give you, Cath. But come and see." "A person can't fall in love with a house, nor what's in it either, Ben. I know, for I've been trying to now for quite sometime. The only thing that really matters is who is in the house." It was a lovely cabin. Inside, the air was pungent with the smell of pine from the freshly sawed wood. Ben closed the door behind them, again taking her gently in his arms. As he bent his head toward her lips, suddenly she straightened and stared. Through the cabin window she could see the wagon Ben had taken. It was piled high with furniture and plows and, yes! There at the front, just behind the seat was a — she could scarcely believe her eyes — but there it was, a kitchen range. "Here!" Ben turned her face to his. "They are just some of the things the gold seekers had thrown away in their hurry to get to California. President Young said to load our wagons as well as we could for the trip back. But they can wait. This can't," and he bent his head until his lips touched hers. Hazel Marchant Thomson was born in Peoa, Summit County, Utah, and graduated from South Summit High School. She received a B. S. Degree from Brigham Young University and a M. S. Degree from the University of Utah. She taught school in South Summit District, and, at present, is a teacher in first grade at Tolman Elementary School, Bountiful, Utah. She is married to Grant A. Thomson, a teacher at Bountiful High School, and has two adopted sons, Drew in the United States Navy, and Terry in the United States Marines. Her Church work has included all the auxiliaries of the Church, and, at present, she teaches the Gospe! Doctrine Class, Tenth Ward, Bountiful North Stake. Her writings have been published in The Improvement Era, the Instructor, Grade Teacher, Instructor for Elementary Teachers, Venture, and Onward. She has had stories accepted recently by Jack and Jill and Highlights for Children. She spends some time in temple and genealogy work. Several of Mrs. Thomson's writings have been published in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as two serials ''Because of the Word'' (1961), and "Your Heart to Understanding" (1964). 179 Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw It is nice to have talents, to be inventive, to win trophies and scholarships, I tell those dear to me, but I would have them remember that all the talents in the world—all the inventiveness one can acquire, can never take the place of dependability. Lacking in that, these things will get o
