[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 204 | General Feature | Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases | Ethel Chadwick]
[Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases Ethel Chadwick]

Where part of the carving is broken away it is possible to restore as follows: Select a clean dry section of the frame that corresponds in pattern to the missing spot. Make a mold by painting with several coats of liquid rubber, drying well between coats. Remove carefully and mend any breaks or thin' spots with the rubber. The dry mold can be filled with plaster or a plastic filler. Let this dry, remove mold, and glue to frame. When dry use antique finish. Egg Carton and ''Gesso'"' Frames Carving can be simulated to make very attractive frames by using egg cartons and gesso (base for oil painting—available in art stores). Leaves, flowers, acorns, and other motifs are cut from the flat lid of an egg carton. These are bent carefully with the fingers until they show the desired curve and glued to a plain frame. This is painted with three or four coats of gesso, drying and sanding between coats. Different textural effects can be created with the gesso while it is wet, if desired. When dry use antique finish. Embroidery Variations For unique and ornate variations, embroidery or lace can be glued to the frame and coated with antique finish. Antique Finish A good antique finish is put on in four steps, as follows: 1. Undercoat: use flat white paint. Dry. Sand. 2. Base coat: May be off-white or tinted to harmonize with room or picture. Use semi-gloss paint or a combination of half semi-gloss and half flat paint. Dry. Sand. 3. Glaze coat: This is available in a neutral color to be tinted as desired or used as it comes in already mixed shades. Paint on, let stand a few moments, and wipe off in the high spots, leaving in recesses. Dry. 4. Highlighting: This is done with one of the creamy metallic finishes, and is applied lightly to the high spots with a finger tip or soft rag. Let dry a few moments and burnish with a dry cloth. If a splotchy effect results from lack of practice, a bit of paint thinner will soften or remove it. CS. ANOTHER SPRING Linda L. Clarke The pines are mine, the dogwood bower, What could be more fair to see The stars, the moon, and every hour; Than lilacs blooming on a tree? Trails that only deer have known What could be more fair to hear Are here for me to make my own. Than song-birds cradled in the air? I taste sea spray upon my lips Then why is it when all is mine While sand runs through -my fingertips That I become aware of time? And then I stand on desert land This one thought evades my reason, With sprigs of sagebrush in my hand. Have I gained or lost a season? 210 on a square platform at the front of the room. Golden drapes, made from dyed sheets, extend halfway down on either side to the edge of the platform. On the right-hand side of the stand is an old, upright piano, discarded from one of the bars and donated to the church. Although chipped and worse for wear, it stands dignified, embellished with ornate wild roses and cutout fleur-de-lis.

rred piano vibrates with the spirit, and the proud strains fill the room, praising God. On the other side of the platform is the sacrament table, with shining white cloth draped to the floor. Around the room, unbleached muslin curtains, carefully stitched by the women of the branch, hang in gentle folds at the windows. Sitting in the honest simplicity of this little chapel, the outside world drops away. I feel fresh and alive, like the bouquet of wild daisies nodding on the piano. From over the pulpit, the peaceful eyes of the Christ smile down from a picture.