[Vol55 | September 1968 | Page 660 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
Suffer the Little Children Eloise Johnson = Bertha Long looked younger than she was. Her heavy hair, still more blond than gray, accented her delicate, fair skin, giving it a translucent quality. Impeccable taste, evident in the modish navy blue suit she wore, was emphasized by the matching accessories lying together on the dressing table. Her flawless image dominated the room, warming it, until her husband spoke to her from the bed where he lay propped up on pillows. With the tightening of her face, the look of youth succumbed to the etching of fine lines around her eyes and mouth, making her older, and very much a woman over fifty. She ignored his question, busying herself with his medicine tray while she searched for a definite, final answer. Will seldom became ill enough to be in bed, but this cold seemed different, or perhaps if she were honest, only the treatment was different. Cheerfulness was not being administered along with the antibiotics. Bertha shook the thermometer down with quick, angry snaps of her wrist. She didn't know whether she was upset with Will, herself, or the seemingly impossible situation facing them. For the first time in many years they were in complete disagreement. If she was aware of the dark eyes fastened on her, she gave no sign. The only sound in the room was her rustling to and fro as she picked up and folded the morning newspapers, returned her typewriter to its case and stored it in the closet. Putting one's foot down and keeping it there, was a difficult position to maintain, she had concluded. Finally, she spoke in a voice husky with repressed feelings. "You don't realize what you're asking, Will. I can't do it!" His answer was just as firm as 

655 September 1968

 hers, but gentle. "I'm hot the one who's asking, Bert. It's in the will. You and I are the legal guardians of Robbie." Color rushed to her face, and her words were tinged with sharpness, despite her attempt at selfcontrol. "Does that mean we have to take him?" "No... No, we don't have to take him." Will turned his face into the pillow, his voice trailed off into a deep sigh. Bertha's lips moved to form a strong reply, but she turned, instead, to look out the window. Avtter awhile, she sat down beside him, her strong shapely hands massaged his shoulders. "Oh, Will...." It was like a deep breath, taken before plunging into the depths of her feelings. "Robert's and Beth's accident was a tragic experience for all of us, especially for you. I loved them, Will. I'm only trying to be honest with myself and you. 'm not capable of taking care of Robbie." She paused, then went on softly. "You know Robbie doesn't like me." Will shifted himself around to face her. "Because you made him behave. He wouldn't like anyone who disciplined him." "Why didn't Robert and Beth consult us?" "I don't know, Bertha." Will picked up a letter from among papers on the bed. "I've been reading this letter Robert wrote last Christmas. At the end he said he and Beth were looking forward to having a long talk with us. You know how busy they were, maybe the time ran out before they got around to asking us about Robbie." 656 'their advantage. The They were quiet then, Bertha gazing out the window, through and beyond the winter sunshine, and Will lost in memories rekindled by his brother's handwriting. Robert and Beth had been a handsome couple. And good. And successful. At the family reunion the summer before, Will had jokingly tagged them Mr. And Mrs. Midas, when they drove up in a new red sports car. It was a fitting title, everything they touched seemed to work to flaming wreckage of that little red car had deprived the world of two of its most enthusiastic and wholesome young adults. They would have been laughing, Bertha thought. They were always laughing. Beth with her head thrown back, her blond hair shining against the black leather seat, and Robert, wrinkling his eyes, his smile brilliant in his tanned face. Every moment of their lives had been rich and full. No matter what she decided, Bertha knew her husband's devotion to her would not change. He had changed in other ways, though. Next to her and their children, he had loved his brother, and he missed Robert. Already sorrow had deepened the lines in his face.. She took the letter gently from his hand. "Do you think I'm selfish, Will?" He smiled a little. "I know you're not selfish, Bertha. But we're still responsible for Robbie. No amount of side-stepping will allow us to escape that responsibility." Bertha traced the pattern of the bedspread around and around with her finger before meeting his eyes. "I'm not young anymore, Will. Ten years ago, I wouldn't have hesitated, the very thought of trying to control that hyperactive child makes me weak. There's a time in a woman's life when she's young and strong, to have children and to serve them. And... There's a time in her life for serving others." Will covered her hand with his. "You were and still are an excellent mother, Bertha. You'd be good for Robbie." "Have you forgotten, Will, how he screamed and begged us to take him home, when Robert and Beth left him overnight? And after that, when they came to visit, how he clung to his mother and wouldn't let me touch him?" Wi would have laughed, had he dared. "You two just got off to a bad start. He had probably never heard the word 'no' before. 'll admit it's always a little hectic when he's around." Seeing the twinkle in his eye, Bertha hesitated, it had been a long time since he had laughed in the old way that made him ageless. It all had to be said sometime, so she lifted her head and went on as though she hadn't been interrupted. "Now is my time for serving others. Will... Do you remember when I could have been president of the PTA? You told me to put first things first, you and the children, and the time would come when I would be active in the community. So I cooked and baked and sewed and loved every minute of it, knowSuffer the Little Children ing you were right, that the other part of my life would also be fulfilled. Oh, Will... I don't want to go against you." Tears made wiggly little paths down her cheeks. "Here, here! You're spoiling your makeup." Will sponged her face awkwardly with a tissue, and put his arms around her. "I'm not asking you to give up everything... But let's forget about it for now. I don't want you to go to that meeting with red eyes." Bertha was relieved, glad to dismiss the little boy for awhile. She went to the mirror to straighten her hair. Will watched her, his face open and glowing with admiration. "You look lovely, m'lady," he said, trying to lift the gloom that had settled around them. "Is your lecture ready?" "Yes, I've given it so many times now, I hardly have to look at the cards. They're there on the stand if you want to look them over. We're still trying to recruit volunteer workers to assist with the children at the hospital." "You've worked on this for a long time, haven't you?" He didn't expect her to answer, it was more a statement than a question. "Hmm...'Suffer the Little Children' the title alone should sell the idea. You'll have the ladies standing in line to sign up." "I hope so." Bertha put the cards in her purse. "My heart breaks to see those little ones neglected." Will sat up on the edge of the bed. "Bertha, if we don't take Robbie, what will become of him?" 657 "It will work out for the best." She spoke with a confidence she didn't feel. "Beth's parents want him to stay with them for a few more weeks, he spent so much time with them before, it's like home to him. Don't worry. Rest now and get better while I'm gone." Little Robbie! Bertha thought about him all the way to the high school auditorium where she was going to speak to the organized mothers of pre-school children. He was five years old, willful and spoiled. She shuddered, remembering her first encounter with him. Though upon arrival he was very scrubbed and mannerly, within an hour he had chased a dog through the living room, tracked mud on the carpet, and, by the time she had caught up with him, was busily shampooing the dog (whose dog it was, she never knew) in the bathtub. Sometime during his nap time he had decorated one wall of the bedroom with a life-size mural. Will had roared with laughter when he saw the giant drawing 658 of himself. Bertha smiled. The likeness was grotesque, but there. Oh, she had tried to laugh, but deep in her immaculate housekeeper's heart, she was glad his visits were infrequent. ".. To be concerned is not enough, we must do _ something...." Bertha Long spoke easily to the small group of women. Her delivery was simple and straightforward, because she believed in what she was saying. Her crusade—it had been merely a personal interest at the time— for better conditions at the Statesupported hospital for retarded and emotionally disturbed children, had begun with an article for the local weekly news. Newspapers across the State had printed and reprinted the depressing facts she had disclosed, launching her into a service for the community she had not anticipated. The overworked, underpaid hospital staff were unable to give the children the constant and special care most of them required. Many of the severely (continued on page 694) Ramona W. Cannon Mary Kraft has won for the fourth time the Dorothy Dawe Award for distinguished journalistic coverage of the home furnishings field. The award is presented annually by the American Furniture Mart. Miss Kraft is director of the Good Housekeeping Home Building and Decorating Department. She travels widely to keep the public informed. Mrs. Margaret Moore received an unusual award for a woman from the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce. It was for organizing the city's Anti-Crime Crusade. Mrs. Moore, Indiana's Mother of the Year in 1965, directs the Indianapolis News' public relations. Jacqueline Cochran (Mrs. Floyd B. Odlum), famous American aviatrix, author of an autobiography, The Stars at Noon, is also very successful in business, heading her own cosmetics firm. She was the only woman to enter the McRobertson LondonMelbourne race in 1934, the first woman competitor and winner in the American Bendix Transcontinental race in 1938. She was also winner of the General Billy Mitchell award as the American pilot to contribute most to aviation in 1938. In 1953, Miss Cochran was the first woman to pass the sonic barrier and exceed the speed of sound.. Mrs. Constance Helmericks, author of best-selling We Live in Alaska, has written another book, Down the Wild River North (Little Brown), telling how she and her two teen-age daughters explored the Canadian Northwest by canoe. Dr. Hilda Bynoe is the first woman governor of Grenada, a British Commonwealth country. Clarissa Start (Mrs. E. Gary Davidson), prominent political and civic figure and columnist for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, has written When You're a Widow, from her own experience of widowhood after twenty-nine years of happy marriage. She stresses the part faith plays in adjustment and suggests for the eight million widows in the United States ways to become able ''to join the human race again." Marie Cosindas, former teacher of art, has surprised the art world with her colored photographs, often mistaken for old painting masterpieces. She uses a second-hand, thirty-year-old Linhof camera (which cost her $120), a friend's cast-off lens, polaroid colored film—no negative, so she makes only one copy of each picture. Her works, with their muted colors and exquisite suggestions of mystery, have been exhibited in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, New York's Museum of Modern Art and the Chicago Art Institute. Mrs. Margaret Mackay is author of the recently published The Violent Friend: the Story of Mrs. Robert Louis Stevenson (Doubleday and Company). Stevenson wrote of his wife that she was ''all honor, anger, valor, fire," and ''vivid, true,... Steel-true and blade-straight."" He said that death itself could not quench his love for her. Impeccable scholarship has gone into this absorbing biography, highly praised by critics. 659 Volume 55 September 1968 Number 9 s Belle S. Spafford, President # Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche 8. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love 660 Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola I. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous a''Trifles make perfection, but perfection is no trifle,'' Michelangelo once replied to a friend who wondered why he spent so much time perfecting his great statues.

[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

The hours he spent retouching and polishing, softening features or adding strength to muscles, giving more expression to lips or more energy to limbs, resulted in masterpieces whose beauty and majesty endure. We cannot really tell what are the little or great events of our lives, or what small word we say or deed we do will alter our course or change the impression others have of us. In aiming for the perfection our Father would have us achieve, the little things, as well as the big, have meaning and give direction. The little things, the sum of which is our creation of our personalities, count. Little imperfections reduce the value of an otherwise beautiful piece of work. A discordant note in a symphony, a conflicting brush stroke in a painting, a harsh voice in a choir, a spot of garish color improperly presented, little things all, yet enough to keep each of them from the fullest beauty. In the same way imperfections in character prevent a person from achieving his fullest potential. SS Phings That Count Little things loom large in the eyes of the beholder. Small discourtesies, even though they are not one's usual behavior, lessen one's image in someone's estimation. A hostess may lose the charm of a beautifully planned party by one ungracious act, or a too rigid adherence to her plans to make allowance for a change or an unexpected guest. Constant graciousness in times of stress, as well as calm, are attributes of a lady. A lovely appearance may be spoiled by one unlovely thing. There are those who are too apt to disregard the impression they make at all times, too prone to excuse their lack of grooming because of the time it takes to be well groomed, too unconcerned about their appearance to be aware of the unhappiness it causes. To be appropriately dressed for all occasions is within the realm of possibility, yet is too often thought unnecessary. A lady thinks of these things. A strident voice or an angry look or gesture when correcting a child leaves a sorry impression. A thoughtless mother makes those who witness her behavior sad and disheartened. Lasting impressions are made in a few moments of unwise action. It is becoming evident in these days of so-called ''casual'' living that there is a great need for more graciousness, more attention to the niceties, more desire to live beautifully, more need to concern ourselves with acceptable behavior. All of these may be little things but they help us approach perfection. Sensitivity is a quality much to be admired and to be sought. Sensitivity is an unselfish attempt to know how another person will think, act, and feel. Its essence is attuning oneself to this knowledge. Those who have acquired this quality can get along with others, inspire their self-confidence, thus reinforcing their own individuality. Sensitivity is one of the 'little things"' which is important. The Lord judges us by the little things. To the good and faithful servant he said, ''... Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord." (Matt. 25:21.) Our capacity to make the little things count ennobles us and is pleasing to others. —L. W. M.

661 RIBBON-WORTHY WORK — Sarah Emmaline Winsor McBride, Pima Ward, St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, has crocheted, knitted, embroidered, and quilted from early life. She was following in the footsteps of her grandmother who had won ribbons at the Chicago World's Fair. It has been one of the great joys in her life to be able to give handmade articles to friends and relatives on special occasions. It has been said that a room wouldn't hold all the articles she has made. In addition to keeping busy with handiwork, Sister McBride keeps up on world affairs, reads many and varied books, and has been active in the auxiliaries of the Church, and in community organizations. She served as 4 visiting teacher for thirty years. She has seven children, ten grandchildren, and fourteen great-grandchildren. At eighty-six, she still has a zest for living and is seldom idle. 662 Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to study genealogy and look over an estate to which she is a joint heir. Before leaving, she meets Steve Madsen, a widower, and is much attracted to him. In England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who rents a cottage on the castle grounds. SBy mid-February the legal work had been done to make it possible for Mrs. Murch to draw her money out of the bank. Two friends were located in the old neighborhood who could testify to her identity. A handwriting expert vouched for her signature, and an old employee at the bank said that he had served her on a number of occasions. The Taggarts put in a claim for ten pounds a month for her board, which was considered a modest enough sum by the solicitor who represented the bank. As for Mrs. Murch, she was totally indifferent as to how much yd 7 af D ifs pri ng Be Latewas awarded to the Taggarts or how much was left for her own use. All she wanted was an abundance of yarn for her handwork and a place to stay where she might be found by Cynthia, her long-awaited daughter. "Now, all we have to do is decide how we are going to use the money," said a jubilant Kitty. "T still vote for a youth hostel. Of course, we can only charge a shilling or two for a night, but we wouldn't have to furnish anything more than a spot for them on which to put their sleeping bags, and a fire to cook breakfast. Maybe we would have to put in sleeping cots—I'll find out. Anyway, more and more of the youth are traveling every year. They come from America now, and all over, traveling either by cycle or on foot. I'm thinking of trying it myself this summer." "Are you indeed?" her mother 663 . September 1968 questioned. "And by whose permission?" "Yours, of course," Kitty replied. "Think what a valuable fund of information I can get to help with our own project!" "To which project nothing whatever has yet been settled, or even discussed, may I remind you. So far, the idea of running a youth hostel is all in your own head." "True," Kitty nodded. "And if anyone can come up with a better idea I am quite agreeable. All I want is for us to be able to live in the castle and in the style to which I hope to become accustomed." "That is entirely reasonable," Catherine admitted. "I'm sure that none of us asks for anything more." "I am hoping that the Board of Governors will be equally reasonable," said Bruce. "They are pressing me for a decision as to our future plans. You would suppose that the entire British educational system was at stake. Anyway, I have persuaded them to wait until after the Easter vacation before I decide anything definite. That will give us a chance to visit the castle and determine if we can do anything more than just take a look, walk away, and leave it as it is." "Never!" cried Kitty. "We must do something with it— whatever the cost."

usky little body slumped, so dejected and lifeless that Bertha tried to free herself to go to him. But the children held her fast. Frantically, she looked around. Where was the nurse? Why didn't someone help the child? Bertha stirred restlessly. She was cold. Suddenly, she jerked awake, her dazed mind struggling between the dream and the reality of where she was. Relief replaced fear, her heart stopped pounding as the afternoon shadows spreading across the ground became wonderfully familiar. "Oh, thank goodness, I was dreaming!" She looked at her watch. She had. Slept an hour. It was late, yet she sat still, the sounds of the dream echoing in her mind. For the first time her atten- tion centered, not on Robbie the noisy, mischievous little intruder, but on Robbie... The child. Robust and spoiled he was, but very young and vulnerable. His world had been snatched away before he had had time to get acquainted with it. Were his needs less because he had no handicap? Could she, with a clear conscience, refuse to help him establish a new world? Bertha started the car. Within a few minutes she was standing in her living room, making mental notes. Will's hoarse cough hurried her into the bedroom. "Hello, dear." She kissed his cheek and stepped back for a critical look at him. "Well, you look better anyway." Will laid his book aside and moved his legs to make room for her to sit on the bed. "I was beginning to worry, did you have trouble?" Suffer the Little Children Anticipating the reason for his concern, Bertha interrupted, "No... No, the old car seems to be holding her own. I drove out to the park for awhile. The women were very enthusiastic...." She paused and studied her husband thoughtfully. "Will, how much would it cost to remodel the basement?" "Why? Now Bertha, you're not thinking of opening a clinic?" Bertha's laughter filled the room. "Well, not exactly. I was thinking more in terms of a miniature gymnasium. Robbie will need a place to expend some of his energy, and we can't allow him to use the new sofa for a trampoline." "Bertha, you're one in a million!" Enfolded in her husband's embrace, Bertha's soul sang with the contentment of one task well done and another begun.