Educational Department ASSEMBLY HALL on the Temple Block was filled by Stake and Ward Supervisors and Class Leaders, Counselor Julia A. Child presiding.

The subject "How to Teach" was ably presented by Dr. L. John Nuttall, whose address will appear in detail.  Adult Training and the Larger Life Dr. L. John Nuttall HERE is an indescribable satisfaction that comes with a feeling of self-importance.

It is not the spirit of boasting.

It isa feeling of the value of self.

One of the aims of all adult training classes is to develop this fine type of self-evaluation, so that each person goes on trying to do what will enrich and ennoble and expand his own life.; What Is Education?

Education is keeping this spirit alive and satisfying it.

Doctor Richard C. Cabot's "What Men Live By," points out that education is in pursuit of each of us?that our work gives us a place in the world and relates us to it; play releases and recreates our energies; love for persons and causes binds us to be loyal to something larger than ourselves 'and worship enlarges our view and enables us to see the greatest things in life.

There are three subtle elements in this personal development: first, an enlargement of the power of appreciation; second, a growth in the keenness of vision and skill in work that makes us greater producers and leaders; and third, in a democratic world such as ours is rapidly becoming, an increase in the ability to evaluate, criticize, and judge what is going on, so that our citizenship may contribute to a safe yet sure progress.

"The greatest task of each one of us,' said the governor of Minnesota in a recent address, is to keep ourselves normal, fair-minded, kindly, and constructive.

Even the critics and pessimists whom I have cited, without exception place their greatest reliance on education and on teachers, in the schools and outside, in building better men and women and in bringing in a better society." GROUP of out-of-school teachers working in a voluntary church organization can see the relation of their work to the achievement of this three-fold aim.

The attention of these teachers should be directed to three factors?teacher, subject matter, and teaching procedure.

The teacher must lead with an assurance that comes only with preparation and a love for her work.

Many volunteer teachers are overburdened because while they teach they carry the entire responsibility for intellectual activity.

A passive student, even though he be an adult, does not represent the best teacher.

One who stimulates, who sees problems and issues, who brings in material to be studied, who devises methods of presentation, is the real teacher.

What Is Teaching?

DOCTOR BURTON says: "Teaching is the stimulation, guidance, direction, or encouragement of learning.

It is setting the stage upon which learning takes place, it is giving opportunity for learning to arise.

It is the guidance of such spontaneous learning as appears in the natural activities of children or older students.

It includes all the activities performed in the direct furtherance of learning." 'When appreciation and enjoyment are the aims, the power of the teacher as a person is especially important.

In this field the sensitive feeling enables one to make choices that uplift and point to vistas of beauty.

There are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE examples of nobility and kindness all about us.

Use these as illustrations rather than always focus the attention on corrective needs among the sordid.

When a person can, as a part of his own intellectual attitudes, bring a class he instructs to desire to recreate the environment in which they live and at the same time make them capable of enjoying the activity and the fine choices made in that environment, he has the power that directors of adult classes need.

In a recent report the president of Columbia University stresses the need of leadership in this field: The New Problem "With these changes there comes "a new and difficult but very pressing educational and social problem.

This problem is that of finding ways and means for the useful and agreeable occupation of leisure.

It signifies that men must be taught new wants and given new tastes, such as can only be met and gratified by the judicious and fortunate use of those hours that need no longer be spent upon productive industry.

Outdoor sports, enjoyment of nature, a love of the fine arts, and a growing appreciation of their ideals and chief accomplishments; a love of reading, not merely that of any mechanically printed page, but of something which should be read for its form and style and nobility of thought, even more than for the subject matter with which it deals or the information which it may convey?these are instruments for the worthy use of leisure.

Moreover, some part of the leisure of every citizen, man or woman, should be given to the willing support of those causes, religious, ethical, relief, educational, which have the public interest as their end and which in our American society are fortunately left for their advancement to the 295 sphere of liberty and the voluntary cooperation of individual men and women." Education for Adults ADULT education must have materials.

What is chosen to be taught should be selected on the basis of the aim of education.

Adults are educated for life just as truly as are younger people.

Young folks, ' however, are on the threshold and looking forward to a variety of activities.

Older folk are approaching the other end of life, and look forward to Jess variety and uncertainty in activity and are more and more interested in intrinsic satisfactions.

From England, in a lecture given by Dr, L. P. Jacks, principal of Manchester College, comes a beautiful statement of this aim in Adult Education: This, I venture to think, is what we mean when we insist upon education for life.

We are asking for the wisdom that can be acted.

We are asking for an education that adult men and women can translate into the art of wise living, thereby raising the aims of education and not lowering it, as some people accuse us of doing.

Art is simply wisdom in action; and the greatest of all the arts, the one in which all the others find their crown and glory, is the art of wise living.

Give us the wisdom that leads up to that.

Give us education for life." The Materials Needed MATERIALS for adult education in classes the Relief Society maintains, should provide for appreciation material that brings immediate satisfactions.

History should be filled with discussions of how men culminated important events, with less emphasis on the early life and biography of historical 296 characters.

Literature should contain some philosophic evaluations as well as mere narration.

One reason why books seem silly to the older members of these groups is found in this mere story-telling kind often assigned for reading.

Poetry should be artistic and filled with emotions of adulthood.

Poems published in the Relief Society Magazine are worth studying even though they don't come in the lessons.. The subject matter should also contain material designed to aid the class members in becoming more intelligent and skillful workers in vocation, community life, and parenthood.

One of the reasons why efficiency declines with age is of course an actual decrease in physical strength.

Another more powerful cause is lack of knowledge.

Occupations shift in relative importance, and pursuits once gainful at times must be abandoned.

To one who has studied the social and economic world in which his labor is placed, such a necessity comes less as a shock than to one who merely works on, not seeing clearly the industrial procession and therefore entirely unprepared for the eventual "laying-off" and search for other employment.

We Must Be Ready Our Church and community histories are full of the heartbreaks, the feelings of ingratitude, caused by the necessary removal from office and from committees of persons who have labored unceasingly but ineffectively in welfare activities.

These need instruction in the social and personal problems inherent in our changing life.

They need to see that either they must adapt in their work or seek release from responsibility.

If taught these changing relations among institutions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and persons, their lives will be spared the sorrow of sudden removal.

Parents need to study, not to condemn, modern life.

In the world of today children must not be made dependent, because inevitably the family group will break up into smaller units.

We have accepted the discoveries of science and the achievements of inventors, and with them have builded a new economic life, which in turn has changed our social relationships.

The certainty with which some parents point out the way of life in a world about which they know little, is very soon demoralizing because what they say doesn't work.

No child responds happily to training for a world that has been.

Adjustments Needed Ideals come down from the past; skills must be based on forecasts of the future.

Ideals may be taught as controls of conduct by parents.

Fathers and mothers who train young people must know of the world and must learn of its changes.

A recent work published by the Institute of Child Welfare of the University of Minnesota says: "The changing conditions of modern life have made necessary new adjustments in the family and home, The functions of the home have changed, as the work of the members of the family has taken them more and more away from it.

But the craving for a home, and for intimate understanding and affection, persists, though often unsatisfied.

Progress, which has done so much for the comfort and convenience of the family, has also been responsible for changes to which we find it more difficult to adjust than to luxuries such as electric lights in place of candles, and running water in place of that lugged from a well.

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "But the different type of family life which we condemn or deplore today hangs on the fact that no longer need the members of the family share in making candles, or cleaning lamps, or pumping the water.

They must now, in many cases, leave home earlier to earn the money to pay for the electricity that furnishes water and light, and washing and ironing facilities, "In caviling at modern life, we are likely to forget that at no time in the history of the race has the man been the sole provider.

The family has always been dependent also on the ability of the woman and children to create food out of raw material, clothes out of wool.

It is no new thing that the members of the family have undertaken, but the fact that they must now scatter in order to produce the same result brings about many new problems." How to Judge To judge the world and by criticism guide its destiny is the right of maturity.

By what basis shall they judge?

Surely the greatest criterion is that of human happiness.

The material of adult classes should contain studies of life itself and the effect of forces operating thereon.

New forms of wrong doing perhaps should receive added emphasis and old taboos perhaps be condemned less.

New recreational activities form a source of joy not felt by some of its critics because they don't participate.

Centralization of power in a representative government is a great experiment.

Are we learning facts about its effects?

No nation or people ever before has tried universal compulsory education.

The effects of such a program are more far reaching than the mastery of learning skills and the powers of expression.

What are the attitudes 297 in the life of a person toward a government that forced him to go to school?

New methods in schools will produce results different from the results of the old' education.

The subject matter for adult classes must be new or nothing is learned.

Newness may consist of material never before experienced or previously learned topics with new interpretations or related to new problems.

The Listless Class (a is danger of listlessness in classes of older people because of the lack of real learning.

By mere chance I priced up the February number of the Magazine, which contains the lessons for April.

The first deals with the Book of Mormon.

The outline says: "This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social," calling attention to the fact that the narrative itself is less important.

Most adult classes have heard many times the narratives in this lesson.

The newness is evidently in the similarity of the "big ideas" to the current thought of today, and in the possible use of the Book of Mormon men as models in character development.

Certain contrasts also appear between the thoughts of the lesson and modern thought.

These contrasts stimulate thought and are really the means by which adults are able to teach old historical material effectively.

Class' teachers should remember that it is hardly justifiable to take the time of their members in listening to a repetition of an already known narrative.

Here Are Good Lessons HONESTY is a lesson in this same magazine.

The writers of the outline seem to combine two aims: to insure honesty in those being taught and to develop skill in 298 the class members in training children in honesty.

The first aim must establish a meaning for honesty and an analysis of modern life.

No teacher could in these days be content with merely exhorting to honesty.

Either your class members don't need this or they need more.

The subject matter must be enlarged.

In helping a class to train children in honesty a study of the psychology of learning is necessary.

There is experimental data available showing that mottos, formal institutional pledges, and formal lessons are not effective.

Examples of honest dealing in modern business are needed.

As the lesson outline suggests, the group attitudes and ideals need study, and the relative degree of social prestige held by honest men pointed out.

Most of this material will have real interest to class members.

Having them learn it is real teaching while simple exhortation and preaching don't get very far.

Aims for Lessons This lesson can also aim at developing a power of criticism and improvement of our social order.

When an experiment seems to show that the Boy Scout organization does not produce boys more honest than the other groups, we can say that the experiment is wrong, we can condemn the Boy Scout Movement and refuse to support it, or we can study the implications of the experiment, the possible connections in the scout program, and thus become constructive critics.

Corruption in public office needs study.

Is or selection of men wrong? 'Does our system tempt strong men beyond resistance or is the situation one of deliberate planning among groups of dishonest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE people?

Teachers can help us to become competent critics.

The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink is new material to most class members.

Present it clearly and interestingly and supplement if possible: by some records of her singing.

Not Facts, but Action SOCIAL service means action.

The lesson deals with statistics on defectives and descriptions of methods employed in various places in their care.

Action must be at home.

This lesson would be a sorry failure if it ended as a fact lesson.

Do we have defectives here?

How are we detecting them?

What care, public and private, is provided?

What can we do?

Shall we do it?

A teacher becomes an organizer, a promoter, and interest will develop largely in terms of the reality of the home problem.

So we may analyze the problem of subject matter for adult classes.

SUGGESTIONS on method may be helpful. -A recent writer, in School and Society, points out that adult education differs from other forms of education in three particulars: 1. Its aim is to provide for an exchange of vital experience. 2. Its method is founded upon the assumption that real education must not have its roots in external authorities, but rather in personal experiences with reality. 3. It therefore proceeds by means of a technique of discussion in which the teacher or leader performs the function of guide and stimulator but never that of lawgiver.

Types of Teaching Three types of teaching activities are usually recognized: 1, Perceptual experiences, which consist of object teaching, pictures RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of various types, models, charts, with explanations in vivid oral ways. 2. Reading. 3. Problem solving.

Palmer's "Progressive Practices in Directing Learning" outlines the following: Reading to Remember is encouraged by: 1. Learning exercises: a. Questions that are explicitly answered by the text.

B. Requests to prepare for a debate or discussion of a specified topic.

C. Requests to underline or check statements judged to be important. 2. Test exercises: a. Requests to reproduce the text read either in free expression or in response to specific questions such as: What does the author say (a topic discussed in text). B. True-false, completion, multiple-choice, and most other kinds of "new examinations." c. Requests to summarize or outline the text from memory.

To Gain Facts Searching for information is encouraged by: 1. Requests to prepare reports on specified topics. 2. Questions that are answered by the text although not explicitly stated by the author. 3. Questions requiring the collecting of information as a basis for a judgment such as: Is the author unprejudiced in his discussion?

What is the author's attitude toward......? 4. Requests to complete a skeleton outline, especially when the items must be secured from different sources.

Reading with a critical attitude is encouraged by: 1. Thought questions such as: Is 299 the author consistent?

Is he justified in his statement?

Would the author agree with........? 2. Requests to compare events, persons, etc. 3. Requests to compare two or more texts. 4, Requests to evaluate portions of a text. 5. Requests to compare author's view with student's experiences and beliefs. '6. Requests to explain meaning of words, phrases, or sentences as used by the author. (Usually employed as test exercises.) Beyond the Book Supplementing the reading of a text is encouraged by: 1, Requests to prepare an explanation of statements in text. _2.:'Requests to prepare illustrations of statements in text. 3. Requests to supply reasons for statements by author or to fill in other gaps in his trend of thought. 4. Requests to determine implications or consequences of statements made by author.

Analytical study of text is encouraged by: 1. Requests to determine how emphasis is secured. 2. Requests to note choice of words (diction) and sentence structure. 3. Requests to compare the style of one author with that of another. 4, Requests to identify or to prepare lists of figures of speech, or other items of form. 5. Requests to correct errors. (This assumes that errors exist in the text.) 6. Requests origin of words.

To determine the Learning to Enjoy Reading for enjoyment is encouraged by: 300 1. Requests to select a story or book which the student enjoys and which he thinks the other members of the class would enjoy. 2. Inquiries concerning characters or portions of material read which were enjoyed most. 3. Requests to make out a list of books to recommend to other students or adults.

His outline of guides to problem solving is as follows: To stimulate and assist pupils in carrying on reflective thinking the teacher should: 1. Get them to define the problem at issue and keep it clearly in mind. 2. Get them to recall as many related ideas as possible by encouraging them: a. To analyze the situation.

B. To formulate definite hypotheses and to recall general rules or principles that may apply.

Noting True Values 3. Get them to evaluate carefully each suggestion by encouraging them: a. To maintain an attitude of unbiased, suspended judgment or conclusion.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE b. To criticise each suggestion.

C. To be systematic in selecting and rejecting suggestions, and d. To verify conclusions, 4. Get them to organize their material so as to aid in the process of thinking by encouraging them: a. To "take stock" from time to time.

B. To use methods of tabulation and graphic expression, and c. To express concisely the tentative conclusions reached from time to time during the inquiry.

METHOD implies organization of subject matter and a guide of learning activities.

Teachers should not assume that it is their responsibility to tell all of the lessons.

Learning really takes place better when learners are active.

Adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done.

If the teachers desire really to develop attitudes they must be personally enthused, use subject matter that is valuable in the development of real adult powers, and use a method of teaching consistent with adult interests and study habits.