The Magazine Congratulates Mrs. Evans pee women of Utah are justly proud of the fact that Mrs. Priscilla L. Evans was elected chairman of the plenary session of the Ninth Annual American Red Cross Convention which met in Washington, D, C., from May 5 to 8. Mrs. Evans has the proud distinction of being the only woman ever elected to fill that position. She is the second person west of the Mississippi to. Be called to the chair; a man from California, who was chairman of the San Francisco chapter of the Red Cross, also served in that capacity. MRS. EVANS personality combines a good, clear intellect with an abundance of personal charm. She has had considerable experience in public life, to. Which she has added a study of the law. Her degree from the University of Utah is in law. Her companionship with her husband, Hon. Frank Evans, has meant much to both in an intellectual way. The women throughout this intermountain country have a sense of pride in her election and are conscious of the fact that she did the work in a highly satisfactory way. The Magazine extends its felicitation and congratulations to Mrs. Evans. The Missions The Magazine takes this opportunity of recognizing the receipt of accounts of Centennial celebrations held throughout the missions. Splendid material has reached our office from Great Britain, the Hawaiian Islands, and from the Northern States Mission. The spirit of the centennary was as wide as the organization of the Church is wide. Of special interest has been the highly illustrated articles appearing in the German press, that nation having sent a special representative to Salt Lake to collect material. We learned of two missionaries who chanced to be in the city of Genoa, Italy, on the sixth day of April, and they, like all other Latter-day Saints, gave expression to the general spirit of rejoicing and gratitude that characterized the assemblies of the Saints on that day. | was an event long looked forward to by the Latter-day Saints. It fulfilled more than the highest expectations of many and ministered to the gratification and _ spiritual uplift of all Latter-day Saints. Church members, generally, had the privilege of reading the message sent out by the First Presidency. It was a message of good will to all people of the earth and one that brought hope, joy and rejoicing to all who sensed the spirit that had indited it.