The Meaning of Culture?John Cowper Powys
By Lois V. Hales
MUCH has been written about culture, most of it abstract, indefinite, and helpful only to those chosen few who have infinite leisure and talent. In John Cowper Powys's "The Meaning of Culture," however, we have a book written in beautiful, understandable prose, offering definite help as to the meaning of culture, its value, cultivation, and application in our everyday life. Mr. Powys's book is so inspirational in character that we are tempted to think that it will prove one of those rare books "that alter the course of many lives."
"TO be a cultured person is to be a person with some kind of original philosophy." This philosophy the cultured person makes no effort to justify. He does not chafe and fret until his ideas correspond with the ideas of the day. He takes the different sides of a question with a considerable grain of salt. Both science and religion have virtues to him. Not only does the cultured person have a philosophy, but he lives this philosophy. An educated person may hold his ideas in his pocket as so many pennies, but with the cultured person there is no gap between his opinions and his life. His philosophy is what he is. He is not resigned in his attitude toward life, but regards God with intense gratitude and intense deference. Feeling that there is some truth in every vision, all truth in none, he treats with reverence and humility every original hint and illuminating suggestion. And above everything the cultured person is aware of being alive?aware of the stream of life.
TO the cultured person literature is not to strengthen his memory nor to enlarge his learning. He reads to enrich his mind with imagination and to make him able to catch the fleeting loveliness which literature speaks of. After reading Thomas Hardy?after becoming familiar with his grey, sombre moods?the cultured person walks through any English country-side with a response corresponding to the response of Thomas Hardy. After reading Joseph Conrad, how much more fully and richly does the cultured person respond to the unlading of a ship at a darkening waterfront or at the crowded foreign docks of some big mercantile city.
WHILE the uncultured mind views these things and receives its own especial thrill from the raw, direct contact, the cultured mind approaches them through an imagination already charged with passionate responses of the great artists. Their minds are stored from great literature with mental images that enhance their own peculiar vision and make any experience richer and more deeply felt. Mr. Powys feels that so long as the forlornest patches of sky may be enjoyed through the eyes of Achilles or Prometheus, poetry alone can reconcile a man or a woman to the simplest and barest situation. Again, in looking at great paintings our boundaries of individual perception are enlarged and enriched.
OF religion in its relation to culture Mr. Powys says that "religion in its most flexible form does for us precisely what culture does; and if we have a comprehensive and imaginative faith, does it far better. The personality whose whole being is irradiated with the inward glow of a faith that heightens and quickens every pulse of life, has no need of culture doctrines." Where, however, an absence of faith has rendered religion unattainable, culture may act as a substitute.
THE cultured man will never assist at any kind of mental or moral tyranny. He will reject nothing, despise nothing, "knowing that everything belongs somewhere," that it is needed to make up the great mosaic of life. He will push no religious beliefs on anybody. He will not glibly chatter about the deepest secrets of his life. An educated person wants to expound, to attack, to defend. The cultured person is unwilling to "open the little postern-gate of his secret shrine for every casual traveler to stare at."
THUS the first part of Mr. Powys's book deals with the nature of culture. The latter part deals with the application of culture to life. To Mr. Powys, the life of culture is like a pilgrimage. A person may start at any moment in his life; but whenever he starts, he is bound to encounter obstacles to his life of culture. Two of the most harmful of these obstacles are, first, dull, stupid conversation, which leaves the mind completely untuned, debauched, ruffled, outraged; and, second, the inability to obtain leisure, the inability to be alone. To the cultured person, that day is utterly wasted where one has been cheated of all time to one's self.
CULTURE always results in greater happiness for the individual who practices it. The most fretting miseries we suffer spring from petty worries. The cultured person practices a detachment from the hurly-burly of the world until such an attitude grows to be a natural mental habit.
THE more culture a person has, the more independent he will be of outward circumstances. He may be confined to one remote village-street; he may be bed-ridden; but a passing cloud, a glow of sunlight, a few blown leaves, a little leaf-mould in a flower-pot, will be enough. His mind has been gathering for years impressions that make his life rich and remote.
WHAT people live in the world without being conscious that to be alive at all is the one grand mystery. Though driven by necessity, by hunger, by desire, by economic anxiety, the cultured mind never lets a day end without sifting his store of sensations for the day." Miserable he may have been; uncomfortable he may have been?but he has not been unhappy. He has said to the universe?"Whatever you inflict upon me, I can still enjoy."
SINCE true culture is the quickening of a persons' deepest happiness, love affects culture deeply. Love takes so much of the commonplace, the meaningless, the mediocre, from life. The state of being in love stirs up our "soul," and makes us more aware of life. What love can do for a person's culture is "on a par with the miracle that a heavy dew can work upon a thirsty garden. The juices and the saps of a million frustrated growths bestir themselves within their parched stalks."
THE difference between cultured people and uncultured people in their response to Nature is pronounced. The less cultured you are, the more you require from Nature before you can be roused. Uncultured people require blazing sunsets, gorgeous flowers, awe-inspiring mountains. Cultured people are thrilled by the shadow of a few waving grass-blades upon a little flat stone, by a single dock-leaf growing under the railings of some city-square.
TO the cultured mind no scenery is ordinary; "a grass-blade is more than a grass-blade in the early morning; the notes of a bird more than a song; the scent of a flower more than a sweet fragrance." Again, the cultured mind knows that we are most deeply stirred, say, just before twilight, when the sun falls horizontally across the earth and the shadows lengthen. Nothing mitigates one's fear of death more profoundly than communion with Nature. Contact with Nature makes one care less and less what other people think of him. It is the big in life that occupies the fore-ground.
POWYS'S chapter on "Culture and the Art of Reading" is one of his finest. From books, men and women learn to respect each other and to feel reverence for the "primordial comic-tragedy of the difference between them." Mr. Powys pleads for the old, old, great books because of their poetical earthiness, their calm acceptance of life and death. To their readers the "faintly-caught music of the spheres steals nearer." The effect of long absorption in reading is to "purge the mind of annoying and teasing thoughts and to leave us amiable, genial, benevolent. All intimate and intense reading is a kind of secret dialogue between the writer and one's own soul."
CULTURE and self-control are synonymous terms?no "refining of one's taste in aesthetics or in literature can palliate the enormity of being guilty of ungovernable anger." No one can be regarded as cultured who does not treat every human being, without a single exception, as of deep and startling interest.
EXCESSIVE gregariousness is a great hindrance to any deep cultural life. To desire to be always with a group of people is to be uncultured. "To escape among calm influences and be alone is the chief secret desire of every cultured mind." Educated people take sides fiercely and violently in controversy. The cultured people find it hard to do this.
IN relation to one's fellows, culture implies an earth-deep humility. Culture does not 'show' itself at all. It draws out others rather than asserts itself; it is a listener rather than a dogmatist, a peace-maker rather than a disputant. And as for the truth which it pursues, it finds it forever in two places?in everything and everyone; and in nothing and no one."
REAL, beautiful, noble culture is founded upon dreams?long, lovely day-dreams. "Any boy or girl who has spent an hour in happy dreaming has already fulfilled the purpose of creation. Happy are those people with one solitary, independent room, for culture desires for the youth long, silent, solitary hours full of mystical, poetical and metaphysical thought."