Margaret Zimmerman Brown
Margaret Zimmerman was fifteen years old when she left Garden Grove for the "Valley Home." She was no ordinary person, this beautiful brown-haired girl with the rosy cheeks and intelligent brown eyes, set far apart. Back of her was an unusual father who had been educated at the University of Berlin and fought in the wars against Napoleon. Once he had been captured by the French and been treated so kindly by them that when he was returned to his regiment, he slipped quietly away to an American-bound ship rather than lift up arms against a people he had learned to love. And there was a refined and intelligent mother, Juliana Hoke.
During the four months of the trek, when Margaret and her family had waited days for swollen streams to subside, she had dreamed of this new Western Country and of the strange future it held for her. Once she had seen the cattle stampede, and with her own eyes watched a woman fall from a covered wagon and be crushed to death by a wagon driven by those dear to her. And she had walked most of the way across the sunflower and sage brush trails. It is no wonder that her beautiful face had a premature seriousness.
On the 25th of September, 1851, she wrote in her journal: "Oh, what a beautiful sight! The peaceful valley of little houses and happy homes. Truly a haven of rest after our long and tiresome journey."
A few days in the "haven" and the Zimmermans moved to Lehi to share an already crowded house with a kind friend. By spring George Zimmerman had a lot and a log cabin. The hum of the wheel and the heavier music of the loom could be heard from every open door and Margaret was one of the fastest of the workers. When the girls met, there was talk of ambitions never to be realized. If this handsome Zimmerman girl were a man, she'd not be spending her time over a wheel! What could she do that was better than that, the girls would want to know. Why, she would be a doctor, one who could cure women of their ailments and save babies. But in her time there was wool to be carded, butter to be churned, yarn to be dyed, garments to be sewed, and Margaret was ever one for the job at hand. Besides, a woman doctor, a real one, had never been heard of. Years later she had the satisfaction of having her only son study medicine and of having him for her physician in the closing years of her life.
She was very popular, this frank, outspoken Zimmerman girl, with the quick tongue and the laughing answer. If the new play needed a comedian, Margaret was there with her lines learned the first night, and when the scraping of the fiddle began in the log school and church house, she was one of the first ones on the floor and the last to leave in the flushed hours of the dawn. And just as happy were the hours spent with her father?now too old to teach school but not too old to make and mend shoes, a trade that he had become familiar with while in the French prison. He would tell her fascinating stories of student days in Berlin, of Wilhelm the Great, and of the strange Napoleon.
These hours of companionship with her father made some of the youths' chatter seem inconsequential and shallow. When she was twenty-two, she married a tall, dark-bearded man named John Brown, one of the original pioneers, who had already seen much of the world Margaret had dreamed about. Indeed, he was a Southerner and had crossed the plains thirteen times with oxen and mule teams and was already possessed of two families. Her wedding dress was guaranteed all wool, spun into yarn and woven by herself, with white crocheted collar and cuffs. One of her wedding presents was a cow, which for reasons unknown she named Jenny Lind, and her first home had one window in it and an adobe chimney for burning sagebrush.
From now on Margaret's girlhood was placed behind her. Ten children in all were born to her. When she had been married a decade and a half, the second wife died, leaving the third with the rearing of three more girls. "I fasted and prayed," Margaret wrote, "that I might do my duty right?when they met their mother they would feel toward each other as they did when they were separated by death."
Now her husband was bishop of Pleasant Grove and she lived in a story and a half adobe house with a flower garden in the front and a vegetable garden in the back. There were also chickens and pigs. There was always a cow. Margaret, for all that her pies and cabbage and wilted lettuce dishes were probably the best in town, was very frugal. Little money in reserve; when her children grew old enough they were sent to the Brigham Young Academy at Provo, accompanied by some of her bedding and a week's supply of food. Her girls were to be given equal opportunities with her boys.
After the birth of her last child, Margaret was bedridden for five years and she was never to be so strong again. It was during these years that the real woman came into her own. She was no querulous patient, demanding sacrifices from her children. Instead she guided her family and almost the entire town from the realm of a four-poster. People came to her for advice because they knew she would tell them the truth?and they respected her judgment. Because she was sorely tried herself, she had great sympathy for the sorrow of others. Let some one tell her a story of grief and Margaret would shift the burden to her own shoulders until she could devise a way out. But if a woman came in with some silly scandal, her reception was a cool one.
Strangely, the frank woman did not make enemies. People believed in her wisdom and they could be themselves with her. There was a young man who might have married the wrong girl, a misunderstood daughter, an aggrieved neighbor, and scores of others to testify to the wisdom of this brown-eyed woman. Young people always found Margaret stimulating. Her interest in them lived through the years of invalidism and into the remoteness of old age. They must do something?be somebody. One of the shortest cuts to these ends, she believed, was through education. Because of her influence, each year the Brigham Young Academy gained in number. These young people could come to "Aunt Maggie Brown" with intimate problems they would not take to their parents. If one of them came to her in search of bread, it is not on record that she gave them a stone.
Grandchildren were growing up now, and there was no place they cared for better. "She was never cross with us," one of her grandchildren tells, "but when she told us to do a thing we did not hesitate." And her children say: "Somehow we did not question Mother's counsel. We might rebel a little, but we knew we would be happier if we observed it." Her greatest achievement?aside from the fineness of her own life?was her children. There was little mediocrity in Margaret; she did not tolerate it in her boys and girls. She had a high opinion of herself and husband, and she reared her family to hold that same self-esteem. Honesty, integrity?these and like qualities must come first. So strongly did she make them a part of her children that they, like herself, could walk with the low and the high and not lose their own ideals. According to her beliefs one could not live fully without service?to family, friends, the needy, the Church and State. It has been said that quiet Pleasant Grove has furnished more than its share of leaders, and Margaret's family are not among the least. One of them has won distinction in the National Council of Women, and all of them have held notable positions in their Church and community life. Margaret was given the rare happiness of seeing her children be the things for which she had aspired. Utah will be a long time in her debt.
As she grew older Margaret worried for fear that she would be a burden on her children. She did not want to live longer than the enduring of her energy. All her life she had read, read, read. Nothing pleased her more than a new book of history and if she could get hold of a volume dealing with the lives of the royal families, she could close her ears to the world. The daily papers were as important to her as her meals. When her eyesight failed her, she stuck pins in the headlines she wished to learn more about, so that her children would know where to begin their reading aloud.
When Margaret, now become Grandma Brown, died at the age of 93, one of the finest and most picturesque of the pioneer figures passed away. It was given to her to see many of her desires realized in her children and grandchildren. Among the latter she will, as the years pass, become legendary. One of the greatest of her gifts was that of loving people and drawing from them the good that they were often unable to express with others. This heritage will be passed on, and with it the strength of Margaret Zimmerman Brown.