[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: (CONCLUDED.) | Author: ANNIE WELLS CANNON,]

			(CONCLUDED.)

	Sister Hattie Blair of New York City
reported the Relief Seciety as not very
flourishing; some members have emigrat-
ed to Utah, and the members lived so
far apart it was difficult and expensive to
get together often. In Brooklyn the Re-
lief Society were studying Gospel books;
they have a number of young women in
that society, but as they are employed in
work they cannot always attend the
meetings; the sisters there would like to
have visitors from Utah sent to them.
	Sister Cannon, secretary pro tem., read
two communications from the First Presi-
dency, one treating on the storing of
grain and the other the “Word of Wis-
dom.”
	The Temple Quartette sang “Will there
be any stars in my crown?”
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. First thanked the singers for
their lovely music; said her heart was
filled with joy to see such a large audi-
ence; she only wanted to say a few words,
as she preferred to give the time to those
who had come a long distance; she had
been pleased with Brother Kimball’s re-
marks about the soldier boys; she never
saw the soldiers but what her heart ached,
and she knew it would always be a work
of credit to the Relief Society that they
had made this free donation to the sol-
diers in need.
	The speaker urged the parents to take
care of their daughters and keep them
safe from evil company, and not allow
them to associate with those not of our
faith, as marrying with them would only
bring unhappiness to their homes, and
the same with the boys; we want our
children to do right; prayed the Lord to
bless and help us to serve Him, and bless
our conference.
	President Martha Keeler of Utah Stake
appreciated the privilege of reporting the
stake; they had many good faithful sis-
ters; at the close of the past year they
had the misfortune of losing their presi-
dent, Sister Mary John; spoke of the pio-
neers, new buildings, new wards organ-
ized; said since the new officers had
been installed they had visited the entire
stake. In Provo City the Relief Society 
had four halls and four granaries. They
had over 4,000 bushels of wheat stored
and nearly four hundred dollars to buy
wheat; she felt the spirit of gathering
wheat was beautiful. They had taken
up the Mothers’ work systematically and
were also studying the Doctrine and
Covenants, and in that stake they were
especially interested in the nurse work.

[Column 2]
Sister Emma A. Empey, superinten-
dent of nurses, spoke very interestingly
of the nurse work, and alluded with a
great degree of pride to the class gradu-
ated last June under Dr. Roberts;
thought they were all doing good work.
Sister Empey explained that while she
was willing to do all she could for the
nurses here, as superintendent, yet she
felt that those who came from other lo-
calities had better go back and give the
benefit of their training to those who
sent them; she hoped the presidents
would encourage the girls to come to the
class this fall; she felt her own work was
confined to Salt Lake City; she knew of
no branch of Relief Society better than
nursing.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts thought it
seemed strange that we could forget as
the years went by why things happened.
“It has seemed to be forgotten how the
nurse work originated. The scheme was
devised that the poor were to be taken as
good care of as the rich.” The Doctor
then explained the conditions, and said
the new class would begin next Septem-
ber the sisters would learn about it
through the EXPONENT; urged the sisters
to send intelligent women; felt the best
that could be done for them was to get
them good homes here while they were
pursuing their studies; she was interested
in that, and Sister Beatie had rendered
good assistance in this matter; she knew
it was a beautiful thing to know how to
care for our bodies, but she wanted to live
long enough to get out of the training of
nurses, for she realized that spiritual
training and Gospel study was higher; we
should not be content with what our pa-
rents know, but study more, be better
managers and have more time to study
our religion.
	President Rebecca Standring of Alpine
Stake was thankful to meet in Relief So-
ciety conference; her mind reverted to
1842, when there were only eighteen
members, and look at our great numbers
now; she had labored nearly forty-five
years in the Society; was pleased to re-
port the Alpine Stake in good condition;
officers hold meetings once a month, and
three or four wards hold conjoint meet-
ings once in three months, thus creating
a spirit of union; she felt satisfied they
were doing well in Mothers’ work; was
proud of the sisters in Alpine Stake.
	Notice was given of the evening meet-
ing at 7:30, and the Temple Quartette
sang, “Send us the sunlight.” dismissed
with prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Can-
non.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
				Secretary pro tem.


