[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: FOR WIVES. | Author: Unknown]

FOR WIVES.
	In domestic happiness the wife's influ-
ence is much better than the husband's; for
the one, the first cause, mutual love and
confidence being granted, the whole comfort
of the household depends upon trifles more
immediately dependent upon her jurisdic-
tion. By her management of small sums
her husband's respectability and credit are
created or destroyed. No fortune can stand
the leakage of extravagancies and misman-
agement; and more is spent in trifles than
women would easily believe. The one great
expense, whatever it may be, is turned
over and carefully reflected on ere incurred;
the income is prepared to meet it; but it is
pennies imperceptibly sliding away which
do mischief; and this the wife alone can
stop, for it does not come within a man's
province. There is often an unsuspected
trifle to be saved in every household. It is
not in economy alone, however, that the
wife's attention is so necessary, but in those
niceties which make a well regulated house.
An unfurnished cruet stand, a missing key,
a buttonless shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a
mustard-pot with its old contents shaken
hard and down about it, are really nothing;
but each can raise angry words and cause
discomfort. Depend upon it, there is a good
deal of domestic happiness about a well-
dressed mutton-chop or a tidy breakfast-ta-
ble. Men grow sated of beauty, tired of
music, and are often wearied of conversa-
tion, however intellectual; but they can al-
ways appreciate a well-swept hearth and
smiling comforts.


MISS Martha Hempstead recently died in
Waterford, Conn., aged nearly ninety-one.
She was a daughter of Mary Bill, of Groton,
whom every schoolboy knows as the revolu-
tionary heroine who said to her husband on
his way to war: "John, do not get shot in
the back!" Among the antiquities belong-
ing to Miss Hempstead, was the oldest watch
in New London County, which members of
the Legislature used to borrow during the
sessions in a time when watches were much 
less common than now.


ELLEN J. Fitzgerald was burned to death
at Taunton, Mass., the other day. Her
dress caught fire from the kitchen stove.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	STICKING SALVE;—3lbs of resin; 1/2lb bur-
gundy pitch; 1/2lb beeswax; 1/2lb mutton  tal-
low.
	TOOTHACHE REMEDY.—It is affirmed
that the worst toothache, or neuralgia com-
ing from the teeth, may be speedily and de-
lightfully ended by the application of a 
small bit of clean cotton saturated in a strong
solution of ammonia to the defective teeth.
	A GOOD REMEDY FOR COUGH.—Take a
handful of hops, and put it into three pints
of hot water; let it boil half an hour or un-
til the strength is out. Then strain and add
one and a half cups of best kind of molas-
ses, and one cup of white sugar; boil down
slowly in a bright dish, or enameled kettle,
to about a quart. Then bottle up, and it is
ready for use. Drink a little when you
cough.
	ANOTHER CURE FOR DEAFNESS.—It is
said that oil of the prickly pear (cactus) will
cure deafness.
	The oil is obtained by taking the cactus,
stalks and leaves, when thoroughly ripe, and
cutting them fine and putting them in a
bottle, corked tight; then enclose the bottle
in dough, and bake it slowly in an oven or
stove; this process extracts the oil.
	The oil is to be applied to the ear with a
small feather. A few applications generally
cures.
	A CURE FOR CONSUMPTION.—A corres
pondent writes as follows about the sanitary
powers of a well-known plant; "I have dis-
covered a remedy for pulmonary consump-
tion. It has cured a number of cases after 
they had commenced bleeding at the lungs
and the hectic flush was already on the
cheek. After trying this remedy to my
own satisfaction, I have thought that philan-
thropy required that I should let it be known
to the world. It is the common mullen,
steeped strong and sweetened with coffee
sugar, and drank freely. The herb should
be gathered before the end of July, if con-
venient. Young or old plants are good
dried in the shade and kept in clean paper
bags. The medicine must be continued
from three to six months, according to the
nature of the disease. It is good for the
blood vessels also. It strengthens the sys-
tem and builds up, instead of taking away
strength. It makes good blood, and takes
inflammation from the lungs. It is the wish
of the writer that every periodical in the
United States, Canada and Europe should
publish this receipt for the benefit of the
human family. Lay this up and keep in
the house ready for use."
	WET AND DRY BATHING.—If any one in
these days will exercise in the open air, so
that each day he will perspire moderately,
and if he will wear thin under-garments, or
none at all, and sleep in a cold room, the
functions of the skin will suffer little or no
impediment, if water is withheld for
months. Indeed, bathing is not the only
way in which its healthful action can be
maintained by those living under the con-
ditions at present existing. Dry friction
over the whole surface of the body, once a
day, or once in two days, is often of more
service than the application of water.
	The reply of the centarian, to the inquiry
to what habit of life he attributed his good
health and extreme longevity, that he be-
lieved it due to "rubbing himself all over
with a cob every night," is significant of an
important truth. If invalids and persons of
low vitality would use dry friction and Dr.
Franklin's "air bath," every day for a con-

[Column 2]
siderable period, we are confident they
would often be greatly benefitted. Cleanli-
ness is next to godliness, no doubt, and a
proper and judicious use of water is to be
commended; but human beings are not
amphibious. Nature indicates, that the
functions of the skin should be kept in or-
der mainly by muscular exercise, by excit-
ing natural perspiration by labor; and, deli-
cious as is the bath, and healthful, under
proper regulation, it is no substitute for that
exercise of the body without which all the
functions become abnormal.—Dr. Nichol.


