[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | October | Issue: 3 | Title: STRATFORD-ON-AVON IN FESTIVE | Author: Unknown]

	STRATFORD-ON-AVON IN FESTIVE
				GARB.
	England, always beautiful in her country
districts, is surpassingly lovely in the
months of April and May. Warwickshire
is known far and near for its beauty. The
story is told that twelve Englishmen were
once asked to name the prettiest drive in
all England, and that six wrote from War-
wick to Coventry, and the other six from
Coventry to Warwick.
	And now I am going to ask you to ac-
company me in imagination from Leaming-
ton to Stratford, in the month of April, for
I want you to attend the Shakespeare fes-
tival held on the anniversary of the poet’s
birth. The black thorn is still in bloom, and
in a few weeks the country will be a mass
of pink and white blossoms, for May will be
here, and all the hedgerows of hawthorne
will be in their most attractive garb. Nev-
ertheless, the beech and elm and broad-
leaved sycamore trees are now in full leaf,
and on each side as we ride along the green
stretches of country are pied with daisies
and buttercups, while here and there the
primrose is in bloom.
	Reaching Stratford, by rail, we shall dis-
cover that it is in gala dress. But these dec-
orations are no mere matter of color, they

[Column 2]
are significant and appropriate in the high-
est degree. These shields that you see in
midair, they are the coat of arms of many
of the characters mentioned in Shake-
speare’s plays, or perhaps they are the arms
of the old guild crafts of the borough. This
row of windows that proves attractive has
within it many of the flowers mentioned in
Shakespeare’s plays, and that flagpole in the
distance, so heavily laden, bears flags sent
from a dozen different nations to symbolize
the homage that the world pays to the great
writer of English drama.
	As we walk along our attention will be
drawn to a pyramid-shaped fountain with
little Gothic spires—it is the munificent gift
of Mr. Childs of Philadelphia, placed there
during the year of the Queen’s jubilee. On

[picture of Alice Louise Reynolds]

