[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | October | Issue: 3 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: singing, “Come Let Us Anew.” Prayer]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALPINE STAKE
	The forty-second quarterly conference of
the Alpine Stake of Zion convened in the
Third Ward Chapel of American Fork,
July 21st, 1911. Morning session opened
by singing, “Come Let Us Anew.” Prayer
was led by President A. J. Evans. Continued
by singing, “Softly Beams the Sacred
Dawning.” Several of the Local Presi-
dents were called upon to report their re-
spective wards, after which President Re-
becca Standring gave a brief report of the
Alpine Stake. She said we are just as unit-
ed as we possibly can be; in unity there is
strength. We feel our inability, but we pray
continually for aid and strength to perform
this great work that has been placed upon
us. We are very pleased to welcome our
beloved President Emmeline B. Wells and
one of the General Board, Susa Y.
Gates here today. May the Lord give us
an outpouring of His Spirit in this Confer-
ence that we may have great cause to re-
joice is my prayer.
	Sister Gates was our first speaker,
taking three topics to speak upon, her first
The Saving of Wheat. The great signifi-
cance of this request or counsel given
to us by Our Prophet, Brigham Young,
has certainly developed our hearts. It is not
a selfish movement but purely for others.
Second topic, Collecting a Library for the
Sisters of the Relief Society. Commence
for a foundation with the Church Works.
We need to read more and enlighten our
minds; seek knowledge that we can impart
it to others. Third topic, The Exponent.
This is published for the Relief Society
and should be encouraged more by our
sisters. There is not one line written in this
woman’s paper but what is an uplift. Let
us encourage and sustain all good things in
our homes. I do humbly and sincerely
pray that God will bless our two venerable
presidents, Sisters Wells and Standring,
who are permitted to be with us today. I
am thankful for the privilege of hearing
their sweet voices again. It has been an
inspiration to me all my life to hear the
testimonies of the noble women of God.
Grant that they may live long to do good.
	“Only Remembered by what I have
Done,” was beautifully rendered by Brother
John H. Davis of the First Ward of Amer-
ican Fork. Sister LaPriel Gardner of Amer-
ican Fork, a returned missionary from the
Northern States, said: “I cannot give ex-
pression to the gratitude of my heart for
this blessed privilege of having gone forth
in my weakness and humility to proclaim
the truth to those who are in darkness.” She
made many beautiful comparisons from the
Bible testifying of the truthfulness of our
religion. “May we ever keep the teachings
of the Prophet Joseph Smith burning in our
breasts and that God lives, is my prayer.”
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, President of
the Relief Society throughout the world,
was our next speaker. She felt very
pleased to meet with her sisters in the Al-
pine Stake. “When I first came into this
house I felt the inspiration of the Holy
Spirit. It is here in rich abundance. I have
always loved the Relief Society since the
days of Nauvoo. Sister Eliza R. Snow
brought with her the records from Nauvoo
which proves that this association was never
discontinued since its first organization, she

[Column 2]
being the first secretary. It is a great priv-
ilege to belong to these associations. If
the sisters only realized the blessings de-
rived from them they would eagerly seek
to join. I am proud of these gatherings of
our sisters.” She remembered well an article
President Young once asked her to write
that it might be recorded pertaining to the
building granaries and various other duties.
He said to get counsel from the brethren in
the taking care of the grain. * * May the
Lord preserve and take care of each of us
that we may live to be examples to the
world is my prayer.
	Brother John H. Davis favored the Con-
ference with the beautiful hymn, “O My
Father.”
	Benediction by Bishop John R. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer led by Brother William Southwick.
Continued by singing, “Now Let Us Re-
joice.” President A. J. Evans compli-
mented the sisters on their good looks.
Your faces bear evidence to me that you are
living lives of Latter-day Saints. Spoke to
us about keeping strict guard over our chil-
dren; see that they are not out late hours,
buggy riding unprotected. They are pre-
cious to us even more than some of us re-
alize. Sister Ruby Thornton, another of
our returned missionaries from the Northern
States, felt that she was blessed with many
great privileges and opportunities. Her re-
sponsibility in the Relief Society work in
the mission field had shown her the great
need of these organizations, it is wonder-
ful how the Lord will bless us when we
humble ourselves. The testimonies this
morning have given me a greater deter-
mination to live a good life, to do some of
the good things these sisters have done. I
want to be remembered for the good thingsdone in my life. Sister Susa Y. Gates said,
“These enthusiastic speakers, the lady mis-
sionaries carry with them the only Spirit
that can bring reform among the immoral-
ity of the world. Let us not forget the rev-
erence due the Priesthood and appreciate
our mission as women and never depreciate
being born a woman. It was said of Pres-
ident Young that he once predicted that no
man that ever faltered in the performance
of his duties will ever stand at the head of
this Church, and I feel that I can predict
the same of our women in aspiring to be-
come the elect lady. The Genealogical So-
ciety has been organized to help our people.
If you will set your hearts to do this work
you will find ample time to attend to your
family duties. This has been given to me
as a mission and to teach it to the people
and urge them to see to it, there is so much
of this work to be done and so few that are
doing it.
	A reading entitled “Only a Girl.” given
by Sister Justesen of the Third Ward of
American Fork. Singing by Sister Fern
Vance, “The Songs My Mother Used to
Sing.” We were privileged to have our
beloved President Sister Wells talk to us
again Her remarks continued on the days
of Nauvoo and of the lives of the great
men and women of our Church. There
are very few left who knew the Prophet.
The women who served and waited upon
him are few and far between. We honor
their memories. She eulogized the beauti-

[Column 3]
ful characters of Emma Smith, Mother
Whitney, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and our late President Bathsheba W. Smith,
having been personally acquainted with
them all. We find very little written about
the women. They do not figure as largely
in history as do the men, but then good
deeds are recorded in the book of life. She
heard the Prophet Joseph deliver all of his
last sermons, remembered distinctly the time
that he was being guarded from his ene-
mies, the terrible cloud that hung over the
city the time of the martyrdom. I pray that
the Lord will bless you to work for the dead
as well as the living and live lives that are
worthy the name of Latter-day Saints.”
	President Standring bore testimony to
that which had been said. “I feel thankful
that my Heavenly Father has strengthened
me this day and that I have been permitted
to partake of the Spirit of this Conferenec.
I love this work and can safely say that I
have never opposed any principle of the
Gospel or any man in authority. I want
to use the power God has given me to do
and say the things that will exalt and purify
us all. May the Lord bless you, my dear
sisters, and spare your lives to meet again
in another Conference.”
	Sister E. J. T. Roberts thanked the Sis-
ters of American Fork for the nice lunch-
eon served in the building at the noon hour,
making it much easier for the sisters to at-
tend Conference.
	President Chipman rejoiced in the testi-
mony borne this day, for the (beautiful
singing, readings and everything that had
been said. Let us trust in the Lord and
He will guide us in our paths.
	After the closing hymn, benediction was
pronounced by Counselor Harriet Jacobs
and conference adjourned for three months.
				SINA CHIPMAN,
						Secretary.


