[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | October | Issue: 3 | Title: ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS. | Author: Unknown]

		ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A TALK ON CHILDREN. 
Paper read in Pioneer Stake Relief Society. 
	So much can be said about the rearing
of children that one hardly knows where
to begin. Every mother may have dif-
ferent ideas, different experiences as the
result of dealing with childrn of varied
dispositions, for we will find in any fam-
ily that there are rarely if ever two chil-
dren of the same temperament—two that
can be governed alike. What will per-
haps appeal to and govern one child will
have no effect upon another, while some
children are of such a sensitive nature
that the least word of reproof will cause 
them to shrink as it were into themselves. 
	That the back is fitted for the burden
is truly verified when mothers with a
great deal of wisdom and patience are en-
abled to rightly and justly cope with all
these conditions and to successfully un-
derstand their children. It is indeed sad
when children are misunderstood. A 
young man said to me a short time ago
that all his life he had been misunder-
stood. He told me of how especially as
a child his ideas and motives were mis-
construed, and he felt that if he had been
more thoroughly understood his youthful
days would have been much happier. I 
thought that it was indeed deplorable, 
for I knew he had as good a mother as 
ever lived—one who did everything a
mother could do for a child, and I believe
she came nearer sympathizing and under-
standing him than any one else, yet she
has often said that it had taken more tact
and patience to raise this child than all
the rest of her children together. 
	When children begin to form friend-
ships with other boys and girls, when
they are not content to remain at home
for all their pleasure, it is then that the
parents of these children should bestir
themselves if never before, and try to
make their home life so pleasant, so agre-
able, that no outside influence can tear
them away. We should not think more
of our homes than our children; there
should not be a corner too good for them. 
Let them see the inside of your parlors
occasionally, let them feel at liberty to in-
vite their friends in, have them spend the
evening around your fireside and do not
so far outlive your youth that you can join
in their games and be one with them if the
occasion presents itself. Most homes are
far too serious. There are some homes
which upon entering you can feel in the
very atmosphere that there is no joking
permitted, no laughter allowed, and if a
child makes the least move it is immedi-
ately told to hush up and keep quiet. Chil-
dren should be allowed to play and dance
to their hearts content, for they will get
rubs enough, knocks enough and a great
deal of the hard side of life later on, and
parents should resolve to make their child-
hood days so happy and joyous that when
they get out and have to meet the cold
world, combat with unpleasant conditions,
they can look back upon their home as the
one pleasant spot on earth, the sacred mem-
ory of which has saved many a person from
losing their self-respect. When children
are allowed to give vent to all that is
joyous and happy in their natures, they will
develop into happy and useful men and

[Column 2]
women instead of sad, suppressed, melan-
choly creatures. A writer said, “Mirth is
God’s medicine,” and we should all take of it
in abundance. Play to a child is what sun-
shine is to a plant. You cannot give them
too much sunshine, too much love. They
thrive upon pleasure and the home is the
place above all others where they should get
plenty of it. Some one has said, “If you
want to spoil your children, let them feel
that all their pleasure and mirth must be left
at the door on entering their home at night.”
And when our homes become regarded as
a place simply to eat, drink and sleep, a
work is started that cannot help but end un-
happily. Children should be taught to get
pleasure out of the common things of life. 
This will often prevent the restless tenden-
cies we sometimes find in children to believe
they would be happier somewhere else or
under other conditions. Teach children to
laugh at their misfortunes and to see the
bright side of unpleasant things which we
cannot always control. 
	A great misfortune to befall a growing
child is to have a mother who is always
tormented with nervous fears and when a
mother continually gives way to these fears
whether minute or morbid, she will in time
make the movements of her children one of
fear and timidity. A mother who never
makes a move or allows her children to
move without conjuring up a myriad of pos-
sibilities embitters their life with a slow-eat-
ing poison. Yet from our earliest existence
we have to a certain extent been under this
ban of fear. A child is cautioned perhaps a
thousand times a year to look out for this
or that. It might get hurt, it might get run
over, something terrible might happen to
it if it does so and so, and it is a most cruel
thing to impress on a child’s mind this in-
nate fear for it is like a letter cut upon a
sapling—it grows wider and deeper with
age. Do not fail to teach a child fearless-
ness, for it is a cruel thing to see a child in
constant terror of the dark or haunted with
fear of the unknown. Children should not
be frightened into obedience by being told
if they don’t go to sleep the boogie man will
get them or a big bear will eat them up. 
It is to be wondered how much sleep a
grown person would get in a position where
this might be possible. 
	Mothers waste a great deal of energy in
worrying about their children. How many
times in imagination have we seen our chil-
dren fall out of trees, off of sheds, have
seen our boys brought home drowned when
they have gone fishing or swimming, have
in imagination seen all kinds of horrible
things befall each one of the family, and
when none of these things really happen,
what have we to compensate for the hours
of mental anguish and the subsequent low-
ering of vitality and physical tone, for not
one wrinkle in a thousand or one gray hair
in a million have been caused by actual ills
and troubles. The things which make us
grow old, which takes the light from the eye
and the elasticity from the step are bridges
we have never crossed, troubles which have
never come. The trials and troubles which
are actually ours to bear are with rare ex-
ception trifling in comparison with the
things over which we worry but which never
have happened and a mother assumes great
responsibility when with some silly fear of
injury she forbids her children such physical 

[Column 3]
development as will promote courage, en-
durance, self-reliance and self-control. 
	Parents who are always harping on the
shortcomings of their children, scolding and
nagging at them will be sure to bring out
the worst that is in them. They can bring
out whatever quality they appeal to and
whatever thoughts radiate their own minds. 
If children do not confide in their mothers,
it is not always the chilnren’s fault, for
there are some mothers who are so crusted,
so unapproachable that their children really
dare not open up their hearts to them. Par-
ents and children should live in such confi-
dence, that when the children begin to out-
grow the stories told them of the stork’s
visit to their homes occasionally that mother
can then take their children, and in a sim-
ple, delicate and truthful manner explain
some of these things which are beginning to
trouble their little minds, for if a mother
neglects these things the children will get
their information elsewhere, perhaps from
an older playmate and in this manner chil-
dren quite often get these ideas so miscon-
strued that it has a demoralizing effect in
their young minds. 
	Parents should use their best judgment
in the punishment of their children. I be-
lieve there have been as many children
spoiled from an over dose of the rod as from
the sparing of the rod, for the fear of pun-
ishment has caused many a child to add de-
ceit and falsehood to whatever else they
may have done and some time the children
are severely whipped not so much for the
offense committed as a means for angry
parents giving vent to their feelings.
	I have heard young mothers express
themselves as dreading to see their children
start to school; they felt as though their
children would be growing away from them,
they wondered how they would be able to
get along. We cannot keep our children
“tied to our apron strings”—we cannot go
with them everywhere they go, watch every
word they utter or every act they do. We
have simply got to trust them, for sooner
or later they will have to meet the world—
will have to stand upon their own feet, be
able to choose between right and wrong,
and the sooner this is accomplished the
sooner your child will be able to take his
place in line in this great battle of life. 
	We are living in such a busy world that
I am sorry to say many little children would
have very little attention paid to their moral
training if it were not for the teaching
received in all Church organizations. Some
mothers seem to feel they have done their
duty by their children in seeing that they
are properly clothed and fed. We should
try to live near to our children, have heart
to heart talks with them on evenings when
their play and work is over, try to get them
round us, find out if we can what they have
been doing during the day—who they have
been playing with and what their play has
been, and in this manner we can get into
their confidence and things may come up
whereby we can impress upon them a last-
ing lesson in kindness, honesty, truthfulness,
etc. Orison Swett Marden, in one of his
wrintings, said “The best legacy a man can
leave his family is the memory of a clean
record and a life well spent.’ When I read
this it reminded me of what my father used
to say. It was that while he lived he would
gladly spend what he could accumulate for
the raising and advancement of his family,


but when he died, although perhaps he
would not be able to leave his children much
else, he hoped to leave them a memory of
a life of honesty and integrity that they
should always be proud of.” To bring your
children up to respect themselves, to love the
right and to hate the wrong, to be strong,
vigorous, self-reliant and independent, to do
their own thinking so that they might be-
come leaders instead of trailers, to trust in
God and love all mankind, this is to leave
your children something. 
