Notes from the Field Ensign Stake: SOME months ago the Ensign Stake Relief Society presidency and board members entertained all of the Relief Society members of the Ensign stake, wishing especially to honor the sisters who had given long years of untiring service to the great Relief Society cause. The party was also in recognition of the teachers' efforts and those who had cooperated so willingly in every endeavor. Each ward had a most attractive display of handwork completed during the year. Many lovely articles adorned the large assembly room, and the great variety of work displayed proved the ingenuity and thrift of the good sisters, depicting a real story of busy hands and an unfolding of real accomplishments. President Alice B. Castleton, a real Relief Society stimulator, welcomed over four hundred guests at this genuinely hospitable entertainment. A little play written by Jane Cutler Weaver was presented by the 20th ward Relief Society. Mrs. Weaver read the verses, and as she did so, the different characters appeared in costume to the accompaniment of suggestive and beautiful music. A boys' chorus and a dance number by two little girls completed the program of the afternoon, after which mirth and happiness reigned when prizes were given to the sisters establishing the best record during their Relief Society experiences. The awarding of prizes was really an amazing feature, for example, the one to whom the prize was given for raising the best flowers read: "These lovely flowers my garden enhanced; I knew I'd get a prize if given half a chance." Later in the afternoon in the 21st ward Relief Society rooms the guests were served a delicious luncheon. Altogether it was voted a most delightful affair, and the following little verse typifies the spirit of the occasion: "It is good to live When the years are young, And the buds Give promise of flowers. But it's better to live Till the blooms have come And the fruit Has followed the showers." Big Horn Stake: AS ever, Big Horn has been very active in all the branches of Relief Society work. Each organization closed the regular meetings for the year by having a social, and at this the guests of honor were the Pioneers of each locality. The entertainment consisted of a program, luncheon, and social hour. The hardships relative to the pioneering and settling of Big Horn had been so recent in the experiences of all present, that keen sympathy was felt and the joys and sorrows of this experience formed a part of the life story of those present. All were thrilled with the great development that has taken place, and the feeling is that the Big Horn pioneers take second place only to the Utah pioneers. In connection with the annual convention, a Work and Business exhibit was held the day previous. Each ward was asked to arrange its own booth, which was done in a manner exceeding the fondest hopes. The Thermopolis branch of the Western States Mission cooperated with Big Horn stake upon this occasion NOTES FROM THE FIELD and a special meeting was held at 2 o'clock. On this particular occasion President Louise Y. Robison, General President of the Relief Society, was in attendance. That evening all the Relief Society workers were given the opportunity of meeting the General President. During the Fall a vacation was enjoyed by the Relief Society. The month of October saw the culmination of the project "Every Home a Garden." About 98% of the families in this locality participated in the project, and a great amount of produce was conserved for Winter use. The latest project of the stake is "Improving Our Meeting Places." The sisters of Relief Society have attacked this problem with the same enthusiasm that has been exemplified in others, and the meeting houses have been overhauled and the unpleasant features removed. Altogether a most inviting appearance will soon be presented in most of the meeting houses of the organizations. Hawaiian Mission: FROM far away Hawaii comes the greetings and news of a general Relief Society conference which was held at Wailuku, Maui, October 24, 1930, where all the conferences of the Islands were represented and reported to be in good condition. There are 48 branches of Relief Society in the Hawaiian Mission, and all are fully organized and functioning properly. They are certainly to be commended for their large treasuries, for their care of the poor, although most of the sisters of the organization are poor themselves, but they follow the admonition to give until it hurts. Since the general Relief Society conference in October, representatives of Relief Society have made a 223 tour of the islands, and the spirit among the people is wonderful. The Relief Societies of Honolulu met together in the latter part of December, and had the very unusual experience of a visit from two of the General Board members, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, who were visiting in Honolulu. There were also President and Mrs. Chipman of the Alpine stake, and Dr. and Mrs. George H. Brimhall of the Brigham Young University. A very hearty welcome was extended to them. Wonderful testimonies were borne and altogether it was a very delightful experience for the guests and for the native sisters of Honolulu. South African Mission: FROM another far distant quarter comes the news that the Relief Society work is a great factor in missionary labors. It goes right to the heart and helps. Many people in this part of the world are becoming interested, and are able to see the application of Gospel teachings through the ministration of Relief Society. There is a great work for the Priesthood and the Relief Society organizations. They must take care of the poor and needy, and while there are many obstacles in the way of accomplishing all that may be desired, the Relief Society does much to bring about good will among the people, and interest them in the work that is so important. Many of the people are turning their attention to this, and are lending their efforts toward the furtherance of the work. There are seven organizations already completed in the South African Mission, and three more are in process of organization. Many of the members live a long way from the branches, but they are anxious to do their part and send their con224 tributions and labors in to be used for the benefit of the people. All are anxious to get help and to know how best to carry on the work. Northern States Mission: Members of the Linton Branch Relief Society. Rena Keller, Nellie Centers. Chloe Lawrence, Pauline Lawrence THE above picture was sent to the office some time ago, but it shows the type of women who are interested in the great Relief Society work. From the president of the Northern States Mission we get a report of the very excellent work the organization is doing. At this time, however, the Relief Society appreciates the very sad situation of finding so many people out of work. While the sisters have been brave and kept their organization together, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it has been impossible for them to do as much in a financial way as they would like to do. However, the spirit has been very brave and fine. There is a new organization at West Frankfort, Illinois. These sisters are living in the Illinois mining district, where most or all the men are out of work. The President, Sister Allie Y. Pond, made a call for old clothing, and the response was wonderful. Six boxes of good clothing were sent from the Logan Square branch, and some of the others which had a surplus. After looking after the needy in their own branches they helped many families who were not even in the Church. In the big home for incurable diseases were many poor souls who had no one to look after them. The Relief Society donated some of the warm underwear and clothing that was given to the Relief Society, to this home, and caused feelings of gratitude in the hearts of the unfortunate who were made happy through the generosity of the Relief Society sisters. After all this was done, word came that a woman out away from any Relief Society was destitute, and there were six little children in the family who could not go to school because of lack of clothing. When the president reported this to the Relief Society within a few days two large boxes of clothing were on their way to supply their needs. This sister, after three weeks, reported that she had sewed night and day, and now all her children were ready for school, and her gratitude was unbounded. These are only a few of the examples that are taken from the wonderful report submitted by the Mission President. The sisters of the organization have responded most generously, those who had it to give, and loving service has accompanied the donations. All of the Relief Societies are busy NOTES FROM THE FIELD in preparation of programs for the 17th of March. Really and truly Relief Society work is wonderful, and the women who put their heart Notes to Social Service Institutes: The General Board is delighted with the whole-hearted response of 46 stakes in sending representatives to take six weeks of intensive training in social service work, preparatory to doing more efficient service in this important line of our activity. The following stakes sent representatives to the first institute, which was held from Aug. 18 to Sept. 27, 1930: Bear River, Benson, Box Elder, Cache, East Jordan, Ensign, Granite, Kolob, Liberty, Lehi, Logan, Morgan, Mt. Ogden, North Weber, Oneida, Ogden, Palmyra, Pioneer, Salt Lake, South Davis, Summit, Weber, West Jordan. Delegates from the following stakes were in attendance at the second institute, which was held from Jan. 5 to Feb. 14, 1931: Alpine, Bannock, Bear Lake, Boise, Cottonwood, Deseret, Fremont, Grant, Hyrum, Idaho, Idaho Falls, Minidoka, Millard, Nebo, North Davis, Parowan, Portneuf, Raft River, Rigby, Sevier, St. George, Teton, Timpanogos. We wish to especially mention Bannock, Bear Lake, Boise, Fremont, Idaho, Idaho Falls, Minidoka, Parowan, Portneuf, Raft River, Rigby, St. George, and Teton stakes, because they sent such splendid representatives on very short notice. Some stakes that had been invited to attend the second institute were unable to accept the invitation and then letters of invitations were sent to the above mentioned stakes and their response was very wholehearted. 225 and interest in it are able to accomplish a marvelous work, both among their sisters in this world, and in the sight of our Father in Heaven. The Field The women selected by the stakes were of the finest type—earnest, dependable, efficient, thoughtful. They read, studied, listened to lectures, until they felt full to overflowing. They discussed questions in an intelligent way and did able field work. New interests were aroused, new trends of thought begun. They delved into the field of social literature and their appetites were whetted to want more. Their vision was expanded so that they returned to their homes seeing the vastness of the field of social work and its tremendous possibilities. Delightful friendships were formed, and when they returned to their dear ones who had sacrificed that they might leave their homes for six weeks, they were better wives and mothers and daughters and infinitely better fitted to serve in their communities. We wish to thank those who came and those who made it possible for them to come, and feel sure that all will feel abundantly repaid because of the growth that came to them during this period of intensive work. We wish them every success in their work and hope that the same spirit that actuated them during their sojourn in Salt Lake will continue with them in their stake work. Our Responsibility: The great responsibility given the Relief Society by the Presiding Bishopric, is a challenge to all Relief Society officers to be prepared. Read carefully paragraph two in the pamphlet compiled by the Presiding Bishopric—Ward Charity— 226 Details of Administration. A copy of this was sent to every Bishop, and later General Board members carried copies into the stakes for all Ward Presidents. After the announcement, "the Ward Bishopric are responsible for the care of the worthy poor," and "the Relief Society labor under their direction," is the startling statement, "the Bishopric should refer all cases to the Relief Society for investigation." This requires careful and prayerful preparation. We urge each Stake to be ready to give helpful assistance to Ward Presidents when the Priesthood Authorities of the Stake ask for cooperation. It is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one of the most important assignments ever given to Relief Society. Bring in Young People: The members of the General Board, in visiting the celebrations held in honor of the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, were delighted that many young people were brought into the programs, some as ushers, others as participants in the musical programs, or in the pageants and pictures. This is a most desirable thing as it brings freshness and brightness to the Relief Society program, and brings to the young people an understanding of and a love for the Relief Society work. Forget It By Sarah C. Maeser Is some trait of your neighbor's distasteful to you? Forget it. Is he getting more favors than you think his due? Forget it. You have your own questions and problems to solve, Your own goal to strive for, and plans to evolve. Don't waste your time airing his faults, but resolve To forget it. Are you hurt by some careless or slighting remark? Forget it. Does hate in your soul try to kindle a spark? Forget it. Are you prone over wrong and injustice to brood? Turn quickly your thoughts to the lovely and good; And should aught that's impure ever seek to intrude, Forget it. Let no evil passion encumber your life, Forget it. Be it vanity, jealousy, anger, or strife, Forget it. For life's well supplied with most beautiful things, And harmony sweet through each avenue rings, If we learn to pass by what e'er dissonance brings, And forget it. 

