"A garden is a lovesome thing, God wot! Rose plot, Fringed pool, Fern grot— The veriest school Of peace; and yet the fool Contends that God is not. Not God in gardens! When the eve is cool? Nay, but I have a sign! 'Tis very sure God walks in mine." YEARS ago that anomalous piece of ground directly behind the house, which was not seen from the street and so received scant attention when it came to beautifying the property, was called the backyard—an ugly name for an ugly place, usually of bare beaten earth or straggly weeds, and frequently the depository of tin cans, the dog's dinner-bones, and other rubbish. Nowadays, however, more attention is being paid to this area of the home grounds than to any other, and it has become the fashion to call it the outdoor living room, and to make of it an open air sitting and dining room. In our beautiful Utah climate every home should make an outdoor living room in the rear of the house, for we may spend hours and hours of rich and peaceful living there. It is not a hard job to make a secluded beauty spot in the rear of your home. Once you have persuaded friend husband to do the heavy digging for you, all of the rest is quite within a woman's powers. You will often find that he himself will become so enamored —Thomas Edward Browne. of the garden work that it will be a race between you to see who reaches the spade or hoe the first. Working side by side, together making a charming spot for the enjoyment of family and guest, is the ideal way. Most important of all in this outdoor living room is the boundary. You would not think of living in a house without walls, where all and sundry might gaze at your daily occupations, would you? And no more may this new garden we are to make be without walls—not walls of brick and mortar, but of beautiful green drapery on snowy lattice fences, or of a choice selection of flowering shrubs. The floor is already there, to be carpeted with emerald grass and edged with flower borders; and the roof is the blue sky, patterned with clouds or stars. If you are able to have a picket fence, or a lattice fence, painted white, you have a beautiful foundation for growing vines or climbing roses. The first year you would need to choose the annual vines, which would grow, bloom and spread quickly all in the first sum218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mer. These will fill the time until the slower growing but permanent perennial vines are getting a good start. Excellent annual vines include morning glories, canary climbers, cardinal climbers and even nasturtiums. The wild cucumber is a fine vine which grows fifty feet in a season in rich soil, and which seeds itself from year to year. The fragrant sprays of creamy flowers and the odd, prickly fruits are alike attractive. The scarlet runner bean is perhaps best of all, for not only will it give handsome scarlet flowers which are beloved of the humming birds, but it gives luscious beans which, picked while young and tender, are cooked exactly as string beans are. Another splendid annual vine for draping over your fence is the moonflower. This gives large, heart shaped leaves, with the most exquisite white flowers, six or more inches in diameter, like a glorified morning glory. The flowers only open as evening approaches, and one may stand in admiration and watch the waxy petals unfold, and so see one of God's miracles. A moonflower vine, seen in the moonlight, is almost too lovely. Seeds of these annual vines may be sown about the beginning of May outdoors, if you think there will be no hard frosts after that time. The scarlet runner bean is tender, so take no chances if you expect frost. The moonflower, too, is a late bloomer and so may give a longer period of bloom if the seeds are planted indoors in tiny pots or tins, and then by the time you are able to place them outdoors with safety they will be nice large plants. The little cans which contain spices EXIT BACK YARD are excellent for starting seeds this way in fine soil, a few seeds in each, providing you punch a hole for drainage in the bottom. Perennial vines are of course the best to use on your fence although they will give little result the first year. Many of these may be grown from seeds or from rooted slips, but purchased roots give quicker results, and they should be planted before the beginning of May as a rule. The silver lace vine (polygonum Auberti) is a lovely vine, which twines around its support and will be covered from midsummer until frost with fleecy cream colored flowers. Climbing honeysuckle is the most fragrant vine I know, and also the most successful for a shady position, although it will grow in full sun, too. The perennial peas, (lathyrus latifolius) are splendid for fence-work, and come in white, pale lavender, and deep rosy pink. They have no perfume but are constant bloomers. Another vine for perpetual bloom is the scarlet trumpet honeysuckle; this has no fragrance, but the clusters of coral-colored, tubular flowers are beautiful. The Chinese wisteria may be grown on a fence, and will be the most beautiful thing in sight when it is hung with its racemes of purple flowers, but this vine is sometimes temperamental and takes years to bloom; however, the leaves are handsome and worth while, even without the flowers. Perhaps you wish climbing roses to form the walls of your outdoor living room. I like these roses in this position better than on an arch, particularly where there are little children in the family, for it is so easy to have young faces and limbs scratched with the cruel thorns. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ANY BACK YARD MAY BE MADE AS ATTRACTIVE AS THIS ONE Crimson rambler and Dorothy Perkins are, I believe, the two climbing roses most universally grown, but there are many varieties just as cheap and far superior. Both of these two suffer from mildew on the leaves, and this powdery looking effect is to be deplored. Omit these roses if you can, and try some of the newer introductions. No white climbing rose can surpass Silver Moon, which has the most exquisite buds of pale yellow before the full white flowers open, to display the charming golden stamens. Two of the best pink roses are Dr. Van Fleet and Mary Wallace. The former is pale pink, so delicate and fragile in appearance that one thinks it is too lovely for this earth. Mary Wallace gives beautiful rose-pink flowers, formed like miniature bush roses. Red climbers among the roses are always beloved by men, and they will revel in the brilliant scarlet blooms, carried in clusters and each flower very large, of Paul's Scarlet climber. Whatever you do, never plant this rose near the Climbing American Beauty, which has flowers of a magenta tint terrible to behold when near the scarlet. The Climbing American Beauty, however, is a fine plant and one of the earliest to bloom. You have now a sufficient list of tried and trusty vines from which you may choose to grace your fence. Even a common wire fence will soon be a thing of beauty thus draped. Inside the fence, if your lot is large enough, a planting of mixed shrubbery will both add beauty and usefulness. Shrubs may be chosen which will give bloom from April until frost. You must not crowd the shrubs, however, allowing at least six feet for the larger sorts to grow gracefully and symmetrically. If the neighbor has an ugly garage, or a chicken coop, or any other outbuilding which is no asset EXIT BACK YARD to the appearance of your garden, screen it from view by planting tall growing shrubs there. Suitable ones are the bush honeysuckles, with either white or pink flowers later forming bright red berries, beloved of the birds; the elderberries, both the native sort and the golden-leaved variety, with huge flat clusters of creamy flowers and dark, rich looking berries afterwards; the mock orange blossoms, with fragrant white flowers in June, and the lilacs, those sweetest things of all. Try the Persian lilac, or some of the new hybrid French lilacs, instead of the common old-fashioned sort. If you want bloom on your shrubs from earliest spring, choose several specimens of the forsythia or golden bell, that shrub which bursts into golden glory in April, before the leaves appear. Then there is the flowering almond, in either pink or white, and the snowy bridal wreath, called spirea Van Houtte in the catalogues, and the cydonia japonica or flowering quince, all for bloom in May and June. Later in summer comes the butterfly bush or summer lilac, (buddleia variabilis) and the althea or rose of Sharon, which will remain in flower until frost. The butterfly bush will give you a terrible shock the first year you grow it, for it winterkills right back to the ground in our climate; but next year it will spring up as good as new, and will flower profusely again. Dwarf shrubs, which never grow taller than three or four feet, are sometimes needed. One of the best of these is the snowberry, symphoricarpus racemosus, and almost as good is its cousin the coralberry, symphoricarpus vulgaris, both of which have the faculty of living and thriving in the shade. Each shrub has tiny pink flowers in summer, followed by handsome berries, snowberry having large milk-white ones and coralberry small ruby-purple ones. There are two spireas among the dwarfs which are very useful. One is Anthony Waterer, the other Froebel's spirea; they grow about two and a half feet tall, and have flat clusters of deep pink or red flowers. You must try the hypericum if you want an unusual and beautiful dwarf shrub. This has bright golden flowers, each with a prominent center of stamens, and the yellow flowered shrubs are quite scarce. The Japanese barberry, that thorny creature which turns such brilliant colors in the fall, and is hung with red berries, must not be forgotten. Now we have learned how to enclose with living walls of beauty our outdoor living room. Next month the flower borders will have our attention, along with the lawn, which is most important.
