Explore Your Mind By Claire Stewart Boyer "The aim of science, art and religion is forever the same?to bring the mind into possession of the truth, goodness and beauty of the world. The aim of science is to find a universe that works, the aim of art and religion is to find a universe that is significant." This statement which opens Mr. Wiggam's great book gives the scope of a mind that can see world problems in their true relationship and can state them, fearlessly and with a satisfying certainty. Mr. Wiggam is just as efficient in dealing with individual problems. He tells us that Character tests have proved that 80 per cent of the failures in life are due to things which the individual can control. In addition to the physical, mental and emotional phases of personality he adds social intelligence and will power. Social intelligence is the ability to judge, appreciate and adjust. The person who can judge himself well, usually overestimates others. He is interested in others, makes human contacts easily and successfully, stirs others to enthusiasms. He is the inspirational type, the leader. He who judges others well, is the cold-blooded driver. He is interested most in himself. He should choose and hire employes but never direct them. He is the egoist. Overestimation of self reveals stupidity, good estimation of self reveals intelligence. Desirable qualities in men seem to be linked together. The able person has common sense, sociability, talent and appreciation. "Rate yourself, compare yourself, with others," says Wiggam. Success depends greatly upon will power. No one is denied a measure of success who will use this great force. Recreate your lost enthusiasms, overcome fear, develop the qualities you admire through using will power. One woman learned to use a paralyzed arm through will power. Fear shuts up the pathway of expression and response. It binds one to failure. Will power can overthrow fear. Don't let your feelings overcome you. Action is the remedy for the blues. Only the self controlled person is free. Mental and emotional tests are now given for an estimate of the worth of an individual. If he has established definite, purposeful habits, coordinated and controlled them he will be an efficient human being. Imagination, reason and memory are merely habit responses. If the memory is weak, the habit has not been well developed, has been mistreated or ignored. It is startling to know that the genius and the idiot think in the same way, only the higher mind makes connections of thought with thought in order to be able to retain and recall them, to build and create with them. Few people even begin to live up to their possibilities. The object of vocational guidance is to make accomplishment run parallel to ability. To make the most of life, physical, mental, social, emotional and will habits should be carefully developed. The establishment of these habits is education, and education is life. Pleasant Profitable Work for Women WHO MUST SUPPORT THEMSELVES This Work Recommended by Presidents of Relief Society Throughout the Church Write EVERBEST PRODUCTS, Salt Lake City Giving Reasons of Wanting Work For SPRING Painting Inside?Outside Use BENNETT'S Property Insurance Paint Products Manufactured and sold by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. 61-65 W. First South, Salt Lake City Dealers Throughout Utah, Southern Idaho and Neighboring States. BUY AT VOGELERS Send For Our Catalogue VOGELER'S Purity Brand Seeds "Best by Test" When in to Conference see our Complete New Stocks of Shrubs, Plants, Flowers and Bulbs We will enjoy renewing your valued acquaintance Vogelers Seed Co. Salt Lake City Was. 804 30 W. 1st So. IN QUALITY The foods and items for sale in our store you'll agree are superior in quality. Everything dependable. Everything guaranteed. It is as though we had skimmed the tops of all good things and assembled this excellence in our store for your selection. "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
