Zina Young Card
A Memory and a Tribute
In Memory's Book there are many lines recalling the spiritual uplift, the sweet influence, and the delicate charm brought into one's own life through the acquaintance and friendship of such women as Zina Young Card. I can't remember when I did not know Zina, but during my childhood it was more in a nebulous way, as it were from a distance, when she and my older sisters mingled in their several activities. She became to me a distinct personality when I was about fourteen years old. At that time her mother, Aunt Zina Young of blessed memory, lived next door to us, having moved from the Lion House into a home of her own. There Zina also lived, after
By Annie Wells Cannon
ZINA YOUNG CARD
she was married; there her two sons, Sterling and Tom were born, and there her husband, Thomas Williams, died. Between her mother and mine there existed not only a neighborly association but an association in Church activities and public affairs which necessarily meant friendly intercourse between the two families. Zina as I knew her then, Zina as I knew her later in a more intimate way, was ever the same—gentle, smiling, happy in girlhood and womanhood; proud of her name, of her heritage and of her people; confiding, helpful, hopeful, even to the end. When she lay dying she wrote to a friend, who had met a great sorrow, these tender words: "Sister, you are in my heart and thoughts every hour. God bless and comfort and sustain you. He will, I feel. I cannot see to write more. God bless you. I am your sister, Zina." The comforting, saintly spirit expressed in these pencilled words, the last perhaps she ever wrote, are typical of her whole unselfish life.
Zina Young Card was born in Salt Lake City, April 3, 1850. She was the daughter of Zina D. H. and Brigham Young and from both of these parents inherited a religious fervor and spiritual insight—which remained with her throughout her life. Her girlhood home was the historic Lion House, where with others of her father's large family she enjoyed the privileges of practical training in many lines under the guidance of her wise father. Zina was one of the officers in the first Retrenchment Society. Her father, President Young, deeming it necessary to organize the young women of the Church, called his daughters together in the Lion House parlor and organized them,
203
telling them "to be an example in matters of dress and conduct to all the daughters in Israel." Zina always tried to follow the admonition of her father in this respect and though neat and becoming in her dress, avoided extremes of fashion and extravagance. Gentle in word, and kind in heart she taught the young women righteous living, both by precept and example. At eighteen she became the wife of Thomas Williams, a prosperous business man connected with the mercantile establishment of Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution and the Salt Lake Theatre. By him she had two sons, Sterling and Thomas. After six years of happy wedded life Mr. Williams died and the young widow with her two little boys moved to Provo, where she entered the Domestic Science department of the Brigham Young University to prepare herself for a career of teaching, a career she followed off and on for many years; serving at different times as matron of the Brigham Young University of which institution she was a Trustee at the time of her death; as matron of the Brigham Young College at Logan, and also matron of the Latter-day Saints University at Salt Lake City. In 1884, Zina married Charles Ora Card. They went to Alberta, Canada, where he founded the Latter-day Saint mission. They took with them their first son, Joseph Young, who was born in Logan in 1885. Here she repeated, to a large extent, the pioneer work of her parents and endured many hardships, known only to those who settle in new lands. She became a saintly mother to the young women in this new unsettled community, nursed and cared for them in hours of travail, and encouraged them in hours of despondency.
204
Other children came to bless the home during the fifteen years residence in Canada, Zina Young, born in 1888, and Orson Rega, born in 1891. In 1903 the family moved back to Utah. Three years later Mr. Card died and Zina, again widowed, resumed her teaching. Mrs. Card was a member of the General Board of the Primary Association for many years and traveled extensively in its interests. She was a charter member and one time president of the society of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and always one of the most enthusiastic and active members of the central organization, giving much time collecting books and pamphlets, especially those pertaining to Church history and biography. She accompanied Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells on her first visit to Washington to attend a National Woman's Suffrage Council and while
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
there they presented a memorial to Congress in behalf of the people of Utah. Many of the last years of her life were devoted to Temple work, where her ministrations and instructions to young women were blessings long to be remembered. She was a loyal daughter of the pioneers who lived to see her beloved land pass from a desert to a garden. She shared in all the passing incidents from the days of the covered wagon to the horseless carriage and the airplane, and one who with all the rich experiences of passing time maintained a wonderful poise, a remarkable memory and a manner so gentle and so kind that blessed indeed were those who knew and loved her. It was a lovely coincidence that her spirit passed from earth on the birthday of her beloved mother— January 31st, 1931.

