Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) Book of MORMON?THE JAREDITE PEOPLE Assignment Read the "Book of Ether" in the Book of Mormon. It will help you to acquire clear ideas on the subject if you read also what is said in the Dictionary of the Book of Mormon about Jared, his brother, and Ether; and chapters six and seven in the Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, also the story of the Jaredites as told in this last reference, pages 40-44. Outline I. Conditions in the Old World. Social conditions. Time and place. The Tower of Babel. Jared and his brother. The journey to the New World. II. Conditions in the New World. 1. Growth of the community. 2. Political government. 3. Religious government. 4. Death of the leaders. Jared and his brother. 1. Life of each separately. 2. Dissimilarities between them. 3. Outstanding quality in each. IV. Later history. 1. The kings. 2. Social and religious conditions. 3. Causes of decline. 4, Ether, the prophet-historian. 5. The end of the nation. V. Ideas in the book. 1. About the relations between man and God. 2. About the pre-earth life. 3. About political government. 4. About the land of America. The Story The story opens in Babylon, about four thousand years ago. It was after the Great Flood, of which the Bible tells us, when Noah and his family were saved. For some reason?maybe fear from another flood?the people in Babylon erected a high tower. The Lord, however, we are informed, confounded their language, so that they were unable to understand one another. This is why it is now called the Tower of Babel?which means confusion. In Babylon were the families of two brothers?Jared and Moriancumr. At Jared's request Moriancumr prayed for the Lord to allow them to retain their language, and then to permit their friends to retain theirs also; finally he prayed that God would lead them all to another place. All these prayers were granted. Presently this small colony was led to the land which we now call America. They crossed the great ocean in eight 'barges, or 'ships, which they made for the purpose under the guidance of the Lord. On landing here they formed a government?a kingdom it turned out to be before the death of the brothers. Here the Jaredites lived as a nation for about fourteen hundred years?that is, from around 2000 B. C. To about 600 B. C. They had a great many kings during this period; they cultivated agriculture, LESSON DEPARTMENT built houses, smelted ore, and even had a process, it seems, of making glass; and they carried on a government and a religion. Also they exercised the same virtues and human weaknesses, privately and publicly, as people have done before them and since. Prophets arose to warn them of impending calamities if they persisted in sin. One of these was Ether, who also made a history of his people from the beginning. The end of this nation was very dramatic?for they did not heed the warnings of their prophet. Civil war broke out over the question as to who should be king?Coriantumr or Shiz. The whole nation?men, women, and children?was arrayed in battle on one side or the other; and they fought till only the two aspirants for the kingship remained alive to carry on the battle. In the end Coriantumr cut off the head of Shiz, and then wandered about till he ran into the Mulekites, who had not been in the land very long. To them he told the sad tale of the decline and destruction of his people. It is probably the only instance ?certainly it is the clearest case? of the suicide of a nation. Notes 1. The Pre-earth Life: In the record of the Jaredite nation we get the clearest view of the pre-earth existence to be found in sacred literature. While the Jaredite colony was yet in the wilderness of the Old World, Jesus Christ apeared in spirit-form to Moriancumr. This was, of course, before his incarnation in the flesh. The brother of Jared gathered from this vision that the spirit is in the form of the body, that the spirits of all men had a preearth life, and that the spirit itself is a spiritual tabernacle. It is one of the greatest revelations ever given 231 to any mortal. You will find it in chapter 3 of "Ether." 2. The Land of America: Another idea of great significance concerns the continent we have come to call America. To the Jaredites, as to the Nephites after them, it was the Land of Promise, just as Palestine was to the Israelites. It was a place peculiarly blessed of God, dedicated as a land of freedom. Over and over again is this idea stated in the Book of Mormon, especially in the "Book of Ether." But it was to be a free country, politically, socially, and religiously, only on certain conditions. These conditions are thus stated by Moroni, and he sets them down mainly for the benefit of those who should read the Nephite record in our time: "Behold, this is a land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or be swept off. * * * Whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven?if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ." Here is a patriotic view of America, the like of which has never been expressed elsewhere in any literature, and it furnishes a splendid background for what 'Nephi the First says about its discovery in modern times, about God fighting on the side of the 'Gentiles who had been separated from the mother country," and also for what our own prophet says concerning the inspiration of the Constitution of the United States. 3. The Two Brothers: In Jared and Moriancumr we have two very remarkable characters. In one respect they are alike? they both have supreme faith in God. But in all other respects they 232 are different. Jared is a leader in matters that belong to the material world; Moriancumr, in things of the spirit. This is clear from all details we have in that swift narrative, the "Book of Ether." Jared it is who sees that the small group of believers can do nothing unless they have the same language, that it would be useless for them to remain in the old home, and, after their arrival in the Promised Land, that the people ought to have their say as to the form of government they are to have, even if that is to be an unlimited monarchy. But he has enough faith in God to request his brother to find out from Him just what to do in each of these situations. For generally it is at his request that information comes to the colony through Moriancumr. Moriancumr, on the other hand, was highly spiritual in his nature. He was what we would call today "psychic." That is, he was more susceptible to spiritual truth than most persons?specifically, than his brother Jared. He therefore became 'a medium between Jared and God. Indeed, he was one of the most spiritually susceptible men of whom we have any record. Said Jesus to him on the occasion of his visitation to him, "Never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast." And Moroni comments ?'Because of the knowledge of this man, he could not be kept from beholding within the veil." 4. Moroni and Ether: In the reading of the "Book of Ether" extreme care must be exercised to distinguish between what the prophet Ether says and what the translator Moroni adds by way of comment. Usually a translator sticks to his text; he does not make any comments on what he is translating; and if he deems it necessary to do that, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he puts his notes at the bottom of the page, instead of in with the matter he is translating. That, at least, is what Moroni would do today. But this is not what he does in his rendering of the history of the Jaredites on the plates before him. And sometimes these comments are both long and valuable. It is as if Moroni were translating for a reader who has to have things pointed out to him, so that he will be sure not to miss anything. Or, possibly, it is because he realizes that he is boiling down his narrative to such an extent as to make it hard to follow. At any rate, it becomes necessary to discriminate between the text translated and the notes of the translator. 5. A Bit of Evidence: Moroni's part in the composition of the Book of Mormon is extremely varied. This is what he gives us?(1) The rest of the history of his people; (2) a translation and abridgment of the record of the Jaredites, in the "Book of Ether;" (3) some letters from his father to himself, while the war between the Nephites and the Lamanites was in progress, thus giving us a first-hand account of events he did not see; and (4) the exact wording of some of the religious forms used in his day?baptism, for instance, and the Lord's supper. This is exactly 'as it would be, if we take into consideration the circumstances under which Moroni wrote his part of the book. Had Joseph Smith been imagining all this, it would most likely have been different. There would not, one would think, be so many afterthoughts. As it is, there is what the teachers of English call "verisimilitude" especially striking in this part of the narrative. We get from a reading of this section of the Book of Mormon, that is, a sense of reality which we could not get if LESSON DEPARTMENT Joseph Smith had made it all up instead of giving an actual situation. If, therefore, the Book of Mormon be a work of fiction as unbelievers would have us think, then the Prophet must have had a most vivid imagination to have sensed so clearly a situation so realistic as the one Moroni is supposed to have been in. For, considering the conditions, Moroni does exactly what he must do under the circumstances. Questions 1. Tell briefly the story of the Jaredites from the time of the tower till the end of the nation. 2. Compare and contrast the 233 downfall of the Jaredites and that of the Nephites. What appears to have been the cause in each case? 3. Make two lists of famous characters in religion?one that might be headed by Jared and another that might be headed by Moriancumr. One might begin with Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, for instance. 4. Are we in any way influenced in our conduct by the statements in the Book of Mormon concerning the Promised Land?its discovery, its colonization, its dedication to freedom? If so, point out this influence specifically. What is the meaning of the phrase "serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ"? Is America now serving the God of this land? How? Work and Business TEACHER'S Topic For JUNE Our RESPONSIBILITY TO OURSELVES "Our education should be such as to improve our minds and fit us for increased usefulness, to make us of greater service to the human family, to enable us to improve our methods of living, speaking and thinking." ? Brigham Young. "The one duty of life is to lessen every vice and enlarge every virtue by education." ?David Swing. "Real education is measured by our ability to get along with others and to be interested in others rather than getting others interested in us." ?Wiggam. "All love for others begins by a wise love for self." ?Dwight Hillis. "The Divine Teacher asks each youth to love and make the most of himself that later on he may be bread to the hungry, medicine to the wounded, shelter to the weak.'? Dwight Hilts. We have an obligation to develop ourselves to 'the highest possible attainments: I, Intellectually By careful and systematic study. (A short time each day devoted to systematic study soon accomplishes much. ) By keeping abreast of the times and what is going on in the world, and discussing it with the family. By taking an interest in the studies of the husband and children. (How much more interesting a husband's study becomes when he is joined in it by his wife, and how 234 much more interesting a boy's lesson, if his mother can take part in its discussion and add encouragement as he studies.) By reading well chosen books, and attending lectures, etc. By reading of the accomplishments of women. II, Spiritually By studying and applying the gospel. By reading and studying the life of the Master. By taking advantage of the Relief Society lessons. By making the most of the opportunities RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for service, as exemplified by Christ's life of loving service. III, Physically By keeping physically fit. (Emphasize self-care and self-love. ) By realizing that we are responsible for our own growth and happiness and for the growth and development of those about us. By proper diet and health habits, including exercise. By regarding the Word of Wisdom as a guide to health. By caring for' personal appearance. By developing personality. Literature (Third Week in June) Lesson IX?THE Short Story IN ITALY Suggested Story "The Falcon." by Giovanni Boccaccio (Bok-ka'-cho), from the "Decameron." Few countries are as rich in stories and story tellers as is Italy. This lesson, however, will deal with only one writer of tales, Giovanni Boccaccio. In spite of the fact that for many years Boccaccio's works, including his "Decameron," were kept in dark places, if kept at all, he is the one Italian writer who has done most to influence Italy and other European countries in the art of short story writing. Dante, writer of the "Divine Comedy," who is to Italy what Chaucer and Shakespeare are to English speaking countries, was the * first great figure in Italian literature. He was a poet and it was left to Boccaccio, born about half a century later, to become the first great writer of Italian. Prose. The novela, or ~ short story, which he developed, seemed to be exactly suited to the Italian temperament, and for three hundred years it was carefully developed. When the' Renaissance declined, story telling as an art, fell into disrepute, and it was not until the 19th century, with the naturalist, Verga, whose fame would rest on his story of "Cavalleria Rusticana" alone, that the short story again became one. Of the prominent arts. Today, Italy has, like America, numberless writers of the short story: Out of all the stories in the text, Boccaccio's tale of ''The Falcon" has been chosen for two reasons: It is one of the loveliest stories found in any language; and it was written by a man wha' helped to bring about the Renaissance in literature and who has profoundly. Influenced writers all over the civilized world. Indeed, the literature of modern LESSON DEPARTMENT Europe as distinguished from that of medieval times began with three Italian poets?Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio, for Boccaccio was also a poet. Several characteristics made these men modern. They all had a firm grasp on the form they developed; they all projected their personalities into their art (medieval writing very often does not reflect the personality of the writer?it is too apt to be vague and dreamy); and their natural vigor lifted writing into the world of facts. Dante chose to write the drama of the human soul, Petrarch of the heart, and Boccaccio of the field that is every day life?man as he is. Out of these three spheres, Dante gave the world the epic, Petrarch the lyric, and Boccaccio the novel. And so great was the genius of these men that their work is final. Many have learned from the three Italians, but none have excelled. It was from them that modern literature came. Strangely they were all born in Florence, Dante in 1265, Petrarch in 1304, and Boccaccio in 1313. The "Divine Comedy," the "Canzoniere," and the "Decameron" represent the best of all three. Boccaccio's father was a merchant, and it is supposed that his mother was French. Whether he is legitimate no student has been able to determine fully. Boccaccio's class, the lower middle one, was in the ascendancy at the time of his birth, and he, himself, exerted more influence over his successors for three hundred years than did the two other men, though in force of genius and character he was third. Perhaps the reason for his sway was that more than the other poets, he anticipated the future. Instead of using mystic and abstract ideals, he substituted sensual and concrete men, and in his younger years he 235 frankly abandoned theological and political doctrine for men and nature as they are, particularly in their lesser moments. The Italians of the Renaissance sought for pleasure above all else, and Boccaccio portrayed life as they wanted to find it. But Boccaccio was not altogether of the pleasure loving world. It was he who did so much to bring Greek studies into Europe, and he devoted much of his life in aiding Petrarch, the man who brought back humanism and scholarship and who gave us the modern intellectual ideal. Little is known of Giovanni Boccaccio's early life. It is fairly well established that his father sought to make him a merchant, and for six years the boy was in service to a great trader. Boccaccio, however, cared for little save poetry, and if he had been allowed to follow his desire, he might have been a poet alone, and not the greatest in Italy either. For six more years after the merchant-service, he studied ecclesiastical law, producing poetry in moments when he should have been working. When he was old Boccaccio wrote of these early years: "It is unbecoming and indecent for anybody to attempt that which he cannot believe himself capable of performing. Consequently since, I think God was pleased to make literature my vocation, and in this I am determined to persevere." After Boccaccio had served his second six years, he went to Naples 'and definitely pursued literature. It was here that he met the lady renowned in literature as Fiametta and who so profoundly influenced his writing. Boccaccio first met her in the church of San Lorenzo in 1338, on Easter Eve. She was a few years 236 older and married to a nobleman. Another of the indefinite things about Boccaccio is that no-one has been able to determine whether he knew this lady intimately or if he loved her from afar as Dante did Beatrice and Petrarch Laura. Soon after his arrival at Naples, he was invited to the most distinguished homes. He made friends among the noble and the celebrated and he was early renowned as a brilliant story teller, and both qualities helped him in his social life. All of his early work can be traced to the influence of Fiametta, whom he must have met at some of the homes in Naples. Even when her influence was on the wane at the time he was writing the "Decameron," he paid homage to her. In 1344 (or 43) he returned to Florence, but his father's second or third marriage caused him to hurry back to Naples. Here Joanna, one of the most dissolute rulers of all time, was upon the throne. This strange woman, whose life was so licentious, was also a patron of the arts, and it was at her command that Boccaccio wrote the "Decameron." Southern Italy at this time was torn by war, famine, and pestilence. The Black Death raged through Naples, and Boccaccio again returned home?this time no doubt to attend to his inheritance. His father had died from the Plague. It was the Plague at Florence that gave him the setting for the "Decameron." In his book a group of pleasure loving people left the ghastly city for the safety of a beautiful garden in the country. They were to forget Death, who was forever approaching them, by telling stories. The "Decameron" contains the stories. These stories relate of human experience, but Boccaccio does not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE trouble to probe the meaning of the experiences. He uses light but stinging satire, and the church, matrimony, and other sacred institutions are not spared. Because of his satire, many people have believed that the "Decameron" was a subtle attack on the Catholic Church, and for that reason the book is on the banned list. Boccaccio, perhaps, had no such idea. He was a Catholic in good ? standing, and at that time there was no danger of separation in the church. Everyone belonged, and people were accustomed to speak freely of it. It was only in another century, when the Reformation was upon Europe, that the ""Decameron'"' was exiled. Men who have spent years in investigating the sources of the "Decameron" have concluded that few of its tales were original with Boccaccio?that they came from many lands and people. Story telling was much in vogue during the Middle Ages, and Boccaccio gathered and preserved these tales. To them he gave his great art, and he made a complete book, written in a stately and beautiful style, and one that touched the heights, and depths, the pomp and misery, and the pleasures and sorrows of human life. It is no mistake to call it the "human comedy." Some years after the "Decameron'" Boccaccio wrote a book that was displeasing to his readers, even then, and two years later a strange thing happened to him. In the summer of 1361 a Carthusian Monk named Pietro died. Before he died he asserted that he had had a vision that must be communicated to Boccaccio and several other celebrated men of the times. Warning was then sent to Boccaccio and the others that unless they repented and changed their ways, they should be LESSON DEPARTMENT damned?that they were already hovering over the brink of hell. Boccaccio's first reaction was to give up his library and studies to become a monk. Luckily, Petrarch, who was a close friend of Boccaccio, hurried from Padua to advise moderation. Petrarch pointed out that poetry and literature, in themselves, are not displeasing to God. Boccaccio continued with his studies, but he wrote no more tales of life in its frailer moments. He became saddened and pious, and counseled his friends to forget the 'Decameron'"?by means of which he lives today. 'With his interest in poetry gone, he turned to scholarship and to service in the church. In old age he suffered much from bodily afflictions, but his work continued. One of his labors was to lecture at Florence on Dante and to write a life of the great poet. It was at this time, also, that he did many of his Greek translations. He died at Certaldo, December 21, 1375, about a year after Petrarch's death, and was buried in the Certaldo church. To the Teacher "The Falcon" is a love story of the romantic and idealistic type. It is the story of a man who heedlessly gave away the greater part of his possessions to gain the love of a woman, and who, through his desire to serve her, unknowingly sacrificed the last and most beloved of his possessions just when she most needed this bit of property. All of us at some time or another throw away something that at a later time we dearly need, so that there is no difficulty in understanding the appeal of Boccaccio's story. The story is saved from tragedy by Federigo's gaining the love of the lady he had 237 despaired of so long. If the main interest had been centered about the lady or her small son, the ending could not have been so happy, but the reader is so anxious to see Federigo succeed that his attention is not particularly drawn to the boy's death. Ouestions 1. Is "The Falcon" a true short story? Explain your answer. In what way does Boccaccio's art, as shown in this story, differ from modern short story writing? 2. What customs mentioned are characteristic of Italy in the fourteenth century? 3. How has Boccaccio overcome the difficulty of his story's covering a number of years? 4. Are the details of the story presented fully enough to be convincing? 5. What acts of Federigo's help most to reveal his character? 6. Is this a satisfactory love story? Give reasons for your anSwer. 7. In what way is the love story idealistic? Alfred Tennyson thought this story so beautiful that he wrote a one-act play in verse using the same theme. The play is beautifully written and makes the motives, situations, and characters more clearly_ defined. Some teachers may prefer the play to the story. It will help the teacher in the interpretation of the story to read the play first. The last Italian story in the text, Deledda's "Two Miracles" is a beautiful story, dealing with the religious customs of the people. The class members will enjoy this story if time will permit the reading of it. 238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (Fourth Week in June PERSONALITY STUDY: Prorer Use or Humor Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 256-277 "Humor is a powerful factor in influencing behavior," says the author of our text. Field of business psychology says that "it is extremely difficult to handle humor successfully, and when not used successfully it is very likely to do positive harm." (Strong.) These two quotations express very clearly the keynote of this lesson. The definite implication is that we may well cultivate a sense of humor and that we should learn how it may be used more effectively. The subject of mirthful behavior, to many may seem very trifling, yet it is a fact that great men like Aristotle, Hobbes, Kant, Schopenhauer, Spencer and Bergson have seriously tried to understand the causes of laughter and whole volumes have been written by way of exposition of their findings. Their views are couched briefly in such phrases as "imitation of a lower type," "theory of superiority," "nullification of expectation," "theory of incongruity,' "an effort which suddenly encounters a void," "the appearance of mechanical inelasticity in human life," etc. Ours is a practical interest, so it will not be appropriate to dwell on the merely theoretical aspects of this very interesting and important general topic. However, we do want to know something of the conditions which make for mirthful behavior as well as something of the social effectiveness of humor, and how we may avoid certain common mistakes in relation to its use. We may begin with a brief quotation from a valuable discussion of this subject by Bogardus: "In order to see the humorous A writer in the. Side of life one must enjoy a fair degree of physical health and of mental exuberance. If he has suffered long hours of tedious labor without sleep, if he has been the victim of recent financial reverses, if loved ones are dangerously ill, the mirthful self is likely to be quiescent. The play tendencies and the social spirit are fundamental to the expression of mirth." * * * "Laughter is born of social contacts. Whenever two or more persons who are kindred spirits are gathered together under agreeable circumstances, they are likely to burst out into laughter at any moment. * * * A member of an adult group may laugh because he is unconsciously stimulated by the laughing of others. * * * Laughter sometimes results from the desire not to be conspicuous. The listener may fail to catch the point of a story, but joins in the group laughter. * * * "Laughter is occasionally forced. An individual is insulted by a slighting remark. He does not want to recognize the incident, therefore he will parry the thrust by laughing. * * * Laughter is sometimes utilized to cover pain. One's pride may lead him to invoke a laughing mood. Pain is frequently camouflaged by laughter. Tears may be concealed by laughter." * * * "Probably the most common cause of laughter is found in the incongruous actions of other individuals. A dog chases his tail, a boy with a basket of eggs falls down, a dignified man runs after his wind-blown hat?these are never-failing, mirthprovoking incongruities. * * Then there are incongruous ideas which are common causes of laughter, such LESSON DEPARTMENT as (1) Mlogical statements, (2) Grammatical and rhetorical errors, (3) Idiomatical and related mistakes, (4) The play on words, (5) Overstatement or understatement that is moderate and implied, (6) A sudden change from the serious to the trifling or ridiculous, and (7) Unintended suggestions." * * * "To make fun of others constitutes an entirely different set of causes of laughter. * * * There is laughter which is simply ridicule? the individual is merely derided. * Then there is laughter which is purely and openly sarcastic, biting, and generally anti-social. Social ridicule of whatever degree is powerful because it directly affects the socially reflected self. Social laughter is a corrective. It arouses fear, and 'restrains eccentricity'."* These brief quoted extracts on laughter are very inadequate as a sample of the way social psychologists discuss this interesting topic. However, a careful rereading of this material should stimulate considerable reflection and help in a measure to understand mirthful behavior, and the last paragraph especially suggests how at times the provoking of laughter may have considerable social importance in addition to the possible amusement afforded. People who are more than superficially acquainted with the Bible know that it contains many situations that were intended perhaps to be humorous. Consider, for example, the answer of Job to his critics who had been parroting ancient so-called wisdom to him after the fashion of a Bromide. He says, "No doubt you are the men who know! Wisdom will die with you." Job 12:2, Moffat's translation. Read in Amos 4:4-5 where the *Reprinted from Essentials of Social Psychology by Emory S. Bogardus, with permission of the publisher, Jesse Ray Miller. 239 prophet tells the "unspiritual ritualists" to whom he is speaking to "come to Bethel, (a sanctuary) and transgress; to Gilgal, and multiply transgression; bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes every three days." Is he not poking fun at some of the respectabilities on which they have gone to seed? Or could any intelligent reader think that Jesus intended the plain implication of his answer _ recorded in Mark 2:17 to be taken seriously? The self-sufficient scribes of the Pharisees were questioning the propriety of Jesus eating and drinking with publicans and sinners. What effective irony is contained in his splendid answer and what a fine key it is into the insight which Jesus had as to the kind of people with whom reform may best be begun. When Jesus learned about the question and noted the selfsatisfied anxiety of the delegation of scribes looking in at the feast he said to them, "They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners." What do you suppose was the effect of this carefully worded reply? Certain it is that even our sacred literature illustrates how humor may be used with telling effect. In the business world today it is recognized that humor if properly used may be very effective. Advertisers, a few years ago, who wished to promote the use of starched collars tried to convey the impression that most of the wearers of soft collars were down at the heels in their business. Said their advertising, "Almost all successful men wear stiff collars." It is clear that in this we have an effort to use humor to undermine the business of the manufacturers of soft and semisoft collars. It is interesting to know that a humorous advertising appeal was used by the Van Heusen 240 people by way of rebuttal and defense. They could not: remain in dignified silence nor trust to an ordinary denial while their customers were being belittled in this way and dubbed as unsuccessful. Soon the reading public were smiling if not laughing at the expense of those who imitate with their uncomfortable collars the vain asceticism of those in days gone by when, for no good reason at all, 'such things as. Starched ruffs, hard-boiled shirts, "ete., were worn. In a subordinate part of the advertisement it is pointed out by way of contrast that the present generation with its sensible appreciation of comfort as well as style, wears soft shirts with soft bosoms and soft cuffs, soft hats, etc. If you happen to remember this advertisement picturing "Ye Hall of Discomforts" with its judicious use of humor you will agree that it was very effective. But let us not assume that successful business men use humor freely. As a matter of fact they exercise considerable self-restraint. 'A beginning store clerk is often cautioned about how he attempts to joke with the customers. It is easy by joking to give offense when it is really not intended. Humor is recognized as being so very difficult to apply successfully that one important advertising concern restricts the use of humor to only those advertisements where this sort of aopeal has been specifically authorized by the president. It is significant that one of the best recent discussions of the prac-. Tical use of humor is entitled "Mistakes to Avoid in Using Humor."* *See Webb and Morgan?'Strategy in Handling People' (1930), pp. 238-243. Publishers: Boulton, Pierce and Company, 232 East Erie Street, Chicago, II. Price $3.00. This book is a very inter-" esting and helpful approach to the same general problem as that treated in our text. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It brings home to us again the fact that "humor is an edged tool; it can be used to fight with as well as to please." The characteristic feature of this consideration of the problem is the use of many illustrative examples culled from "incidents from the careers of successful men." Some of their conclusions arrived at which might supplement our text are expressed briefly as follows: "Wee cannot go wrong with a joke on ourselves... We accomplish much the same result by joining in the laugh when' someone else Springs one on us. *-* * It is giving a thought to the victim that able men make their humor effective in creating good will. They take care that their thrusts inflict no damage which they may regret. Kindly humor charms people and puts them at ease. It is perhaps unequalled as a means of relieving tension and drawing people together." At the close of this season's work it may be of interest to many of the Relief Society members to know that it has been decided to use the same text for another year and to try by a slightly different series of lessons to master the material much more thoroughly. The Magazine lessons will have new content and an attempt will be made to make the work somewhat easier. A Few of the Possible Problems For Discussion 1. Relate instances to illustrate the truth of the statement from Strong quoted in the first paragraph. 2. Read to the class and comment briefly on the quotation from Bogardus. Which paragraph do you regard as most significant? Why? 3. Why is it considered such a high compliment to say that a person has a fine sense of humor? If it is available read the interesting column on the "Sense of Joy" found in The LESSON DEPARTMENT Nation for April 27, 1927, p. 468. Do you consider a sense of sor more important than a sense of joy as a "distinguishing mark of supremely and passionately happy persons?" Give reasons. 4, Under what circumstances is it justifiable to poke fun at the "solemn respectabilities'" of people? What good, if any, do you suppose came out of the verses quoted in the text on page 260? Do you suppose they were intended to be merely amusing? 5. Two bromides, (See November Magazine, page 632) in this case a school teacher and a garrulous club woman had been relating publicly in church their experiences during a summer's trip abroad. Their remarks seemed so trifling and commonplace and unnecessarily prolonged that the chorister expressed his reaction by having the bishop announce that the closing song would be the hymn entitled, "Ye simple souls who stray." Do you suppose that the effects on the whole were good or were they bad? Do you regard the act as an unkindly thrust or a justified corrective? Make your comments in the light of what Overstreet says on the last half of page 262 and of what Bogardus says in the last paragraph quoted here in the Magazine. 6. Mention some of the delightful personal qualities of one who has cultivated a truly humorous attitude. 7. One of the many alleged "eleventh" commandments says. "Thou shalt not take thyself too? seriously." Comment on this especially in the light of the first half of page 266 in our text. 8. The writer has heard it said that in a certain theological class the members became very much exercised about the problem of the location of the ten lost tribes of 241 Israel. After much discussion they sought for the final solution of the problem at the general church headquarters. The answer came promptly. It was about as follows: "We do not know where the ten lost tribes are. They are lost." Have you ever heard of similar profoundly trivial discussions where the participants had at least temporarily lost their sense of humor? How can such people be helped? 9. What do you think of the suggestion that humor is to be found in the Bible? Discuss some of the "passages you are acquainted with where some form of humor is used. One writer characterizes Matt. 23: 32 and Rev. 22:11 as "gravely ironical." What is your opinion of these passages? Do you know of any preachers who make effective use of humor in their sermons to further the cause of righteousness? 'Name them and relate an illustration or two. 10. Present as convincingly as you can the considerations which cause you to believe that we can successfully cultivate a system of habits that make for humor and actually break up those habits we have that tend to make us Bulky unhumorous. 11. What to you is the best contribution you get from Chapter XVI of the text? 12. One of America's greatest educators says that we might well judge the value of educational activities by (1) the extent to which they stimulate a desire for continued growth and (2) the extent to which they furnish the necessary basis upon which further development may take place. Judged from these standards have you made this "social service" course a success? What are the evidences which would support your answer?
