Ussiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 34—"But Thou, When Thou Prayest, Enter Into Thy Closet, and When Thou Hast Shut Thy Door, Pray to Thy Father Who Is in Secret; and Thy Father, Who Seeth in Secret, Shall Reward Thee Openly" (3 Nephi 13:6). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, November 1, 1955 Objective: To point out that we are admonished to pray in secret and we shall be rewarded openly. HEN we were children and had a deep and earnest desire for something—something that at that moment was more important to us than anything else, we did not shout it from the housetops, nor tell everybody about it. Rather, we bided our time. We thought about it, we watched for a quiet moment when we could ask one or both parents to grant to us the thing that we longed for. Sometimes it was a material need or just understanding, or a word of advice. Other times we wanted to express gratitude for many kindnesses, considerations, and indulgences. Any of the above we considered too personal and private for an audience, and so it is with prayer. Our deepest and most serious thoughts whether of pleadings or thanksgiving are between us and our God. 'Therefore, we approach him in quiet and in secret and in supplication gain a clear channel—a channel always open to us. The Savior has given us advice on prayer as to how, when, and where to supplicate. 'The Lord's Prayer found in both The Book of Mor- -mon and the Bible is his pattern— both direct and simple. We know God sees us as we are Page 542 and he has told us, "... Your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him" (3 Nephi 13:8). Secret prayer conveys an honest plea and there is no need for sham or pretense. One can pour out his heart uninhibited in solitude, and this, alone, is good for the soul. When our freedom and _ liberty were in jeopardy at the time of the American Revolution, General Washington sought the Lord in secret prayer. He knew no one could help or advise him but his God. He drew away from his associates and laid his problems before his Maker. The answer to that prayer was liberty and freedom. The boy Prophet of this dispensation, after much thought and speculation, went alone into the woods to pray. His desire for knowledge of his Heavenly Father's will was so sincere and personal that he could only talk it over with him in private. The answer to that prayer brought the gospel of Jesus Christ back to this earth in its fullness. This is a perfect example of both the Prophet and others being rewarded openly, a reward that all mankind may enjoy, if they will but live for it. It is so easy to go down on our LESSON DEPARTMENT knees in time of trouble and sorrow and say as King David said: Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come unto thee. Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day 543 when I call answer me speedily (Psalms 102:1-2). Let us not forget, also, to go to the Lord often and in secret with thanksgiving in our hearts for his loving generosity.