[Vol12 | December 1925 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Tennyson, The Boy and the Match Annie Pike Greenwood]

Tennyson, the Boy and the Match This incident from the pen of Annie Pike Greenwood, will prove of interest to our readers; it is the same class of material that has made the autobiography-of Edward Bok so interesting. Sagebrush grows almost up to the door of our high school building, and where there is no sagebrush, it is black sand. In this building every day I teach the Class in Perfect Enjoyment. On the daily program it is listed as "Literature," but my fifteen pupils and I know better. We read and discuss for an enchanted period, ignoring the fact that we are running over into the penmanship time, and when the instructor of that course appears suggestively in the doorway, the Class in Perfect Enjoyment unitedly and emphatically shooes him away with gestures of dismissal. In consequence of this, I fear that the class will become literary critics who will be forced to use the typewriter in order to make themselves decipherable. One day last week while we were studying Tennyson, Verna raised her hand, and announced, "There is a man in Rupert who has seen Tennyson." Her words made something of a stir in the class. We are prone to think of our super-men as dead beyond living remembrance TENNYSON, THE BOY, AND THE MATCH  663  Rupert is five miles from our schoolhouse. I saw the expression of incredulity on the faces before me. How could any citizen in the little, new, western, progressive town ever have touched such old-world greatness? If such man did exist, he must be doddering on the edge of the grave. Then I drew their attention to the date of Tennyson's death. And assured them that when I made a trip to Rupert I would seek the man in question. Today I called on the Reverend B. C. d'Easum, the man who saw Tennyson. He is the minister of the Episcopal church, at Rupert, a charming and cultured man, with a wife who is his counterpart. He smiled when I told him what I had come for. "It is true, but the incident is quite trivial. It was at the time that Tennyson was making his home on the Isle of Wight. My father was a curate there, and he had a collection of brass plates which they used to rub on the tombstones of the Crusaders to get impressions. Tennyson was interested in these plates. "One day the news was revealed to me that the great man was to dine with my father. I was just a little boy, and, of course, was not allowed at the table. But I was determined to catch a glimpse of the writer whom I admired so much. "After dinner, Tennyson and my father walked in the garden, and I went darting from one hiding place behind a shrub to another hiding place behind another shrub, my boyish eyes photographing the handsome figure in its broad hat with flowing hair and picturesque beard. "Suddenly I was galvanized by his voice unmistakably addressing me, hidden as I thought I was. 'Boy, come here!' "I went at once to him with trepidation and a sense of elevated expectancy. I would not have been surprised to have heard him begin some recitative from 'The Idylls of the King,' or 'Maud,' or at very least, 'Break, Break, Break.' "There was an instant of solemnity, followed by the words. 'Boy, go to the house and get me a match!' "T got the match and brought it back to him. That was all. So you see it doesn't amount to anything." Mr. d'Easum smiled, deprecatingly. "I disagree with you," I said, "it transforms Tennyson from a mythological hero to a human entity." "Tt does serve to link the present with the past,' he conceded. Next Monday I shall go to school, and with the aid of a boy and a match I shall be able to make an unforgettable picture of Tennyson for the Class of Perfect Enjoyment. We shall see him strolling through the curate's garden in his broad-brimmed hat, hair flowing, picturesque beard,?and, yes, I suppose there must be a little urchin darting from shrub to shrub and peering out admiring at the heroic figure.  Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE RULERS OF ISRAEL THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION (continued.) A. The Judges. Israel, or the People of God, lived under three types of rulership. After the death of Moses, the prophet, the seer, the revelator and the lawgiver, Israel was led by Judges of which there were seventeen. The first Judge was Joshua, the leader; the last Samuel, the prophet. The government under the Judges covered a period of about 400 years. The division of the conquered country among the twelve tribes tended to lack a common interest, which made national! Strength something that was one of the hopes of Israel. In their march of conquest they had developed a thirst for power, sufficient, at least, to make them safe among nations who hated them, but feared "the God of Israel."" They were quick to forget that their source of safety was the Lord. Then some of the Judges showed the weakness of unwise indulgence of their own children and thereby invited iniquity. Eli, once a valiant leader. Failed to demand of his sons standards of life fit for official positions. See I Sam. 2:24-31. The last Judge of Israel tolerated in office sons whose conduct contributed to the decision of the people to call for a change in governmental affairs. (See I Sam. 8:1-8.) B. The Kings. During the Mosaic dispensation. The Covenant People had three kings who ruled over all Israel. Then came the separation of the tribes, about 950 B. C. One division, composed of ten full tribes and part of another tribe set up a kingdom known as the Kingdom of Israel, with the City of Shechem, in Samaria, as their capital. This kingdom was ruled by twenty-one kings, and it lasted two hundred and thirty years. It was broken up by the Assyrians who carried the ten tribes off as captives of war and scattered them, Jest they should re-unite and make trouble for the Assyrian government. It is said that 30,000 were thus disposed of. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 665 The other division known as the Kingdom of Judah, made up of the tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin, held Jerusalem as their capitol. The Kingdom of Judah held place as a recognized government for about 365 years, during which time twenty-two kings ruled, when it was broken up by the Babylonians who plundered Jerusalem, destroyed the temple and the royal palace and carried the people into captivity. C. Various Governors. After the Babylonian captivity Judah never came into political prominence; its nationality was broken. The people were ruled by some foreign power or were under the protectorate of some strong nation. During this period, independence was unknown to the people of God. They had no real freedom of nationality. Their military career was one, first of conquest, and then of captivity. They were looking for a deliverer of the war type and not for the Prince of Peace. D. The Three Kings of all Israel. 1. Saul. (a) His calling. "Tsrael would have a King." Samuel complains about their ungratefulness, and the Lord advised and warned against it. See I Sam. 8:4-22. The people, by putting their wish against God's wisdom, broke the first of the ten. Commandments. The Lord chose them a king after their own heart. Saul was pointed out by the Lord; (See I Sam. 9:17.) He was annointed by Samuel; (See I Sam. 10:1), he was "given a new heart"; (See Sam. 10:5-9), he was accepted by the people. (I Sam. 19:25.) (b) His Reign. Saul was a man of orders rather than one of obedience. (See I Sam. 15:22-26.) (c) Lessons from his Life. From his life may be learned many lessons, prominent among which are: 1. That obedience is the most acceptable offering man can bring before God. (See I Sam. 15:22), 2. That the Spirit of the Lord brings to the front our best possibilities. With the Spirit of the Lord, Saul was a prophet; without it, he was a madman, a murderer at heart. 3. That good music is attractive to the Spirit of the Lord. (See I Sam. 16:23.) 2. David. (a) His Calling: The Lord had promised Samuel that he would select for a king a man after his own heart. Samuel anointed David King 
 of Israel under the direction of the Lord who sought a man after his own heart. (b) His Theological Contributions. 1. An unbounded loyalty to the Lord's annointed. (See I Sam. 24:4-6.) 2. An undying trust in God, "Thou will not leave my soul in hell." (See Ps. 16:10.) 3. His psalm?Sermons. "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." (See Ps. 14:1.) 3. Solomon. 1. Successful seeker for wisdom. 2. An unsuccessful seeker of happiness. (See Ecclesiastes.) This short book is an epitome of Solomon's life; it may be read with profit once a year. 3. A philosopher. The proverbs of Solomon are household words and the guide of statesmen. 4. A poet of lasting fame. (See the Songs of Solomon.) Questions and Problems 1. Name the three classes of rulers that followed Moses during the dispensation. 2. Give the number of judges and of kings that ruled during the dispensation. 3. What were the causes that led to the clamor for'a king? 4. Give in brief the Lord's warning concerning the Israelites having a king, 5. Tell of Saul's getting a new heart. 6. In the light of Sam. 16:22 discuss the salvation value of good music. 7. What is the most valuable lesson to be learned from the life of Saul? 8. What, from your point of view, were the characteristics of David when he was annointed king that made him a man after God's own heart? 9. Speak of David's loyalty to the Lord's annointed and his undying faith in the Lord. 10. Quote three theologically helpful memory gems from the Psalms of David. 11. Prove Solomon's success in his humble and prayerful search for wisdom. 12. According to the words of Solomon-as recorded in Ecclesiastes what are the two worth while things to do? 13. Quote three of what you consider to be the most helpful proverbs of Solomon. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 667 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February) TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY Home Talk on Washington and Lincoln "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime; And departing, leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time." ?Longfellow. 1. The traits of character which made these men great: Honesty. Courage (moral and physical.) Reliability. Sense of justice. Faith in God. Desire to serve mankind. Sympathy for oppressed, etc. 2. Suggested stories to tell to illustrate these traits of character. Gordy's American Leaders and Heroes contains many stories. Also any biography of Washington or Lincoln contains stories which illustrate the fine qualities of these men. The Perfect Tribute, gives an idea of Lincoln's character.. 5 3. Teacher select two stories to tell in homes she visits. (One about Washington, one about Lincoln.) 4. Suggest time for discussion of these men. (Dinner hour, bed time, home evening.) 5. The suggestion of the Church regarding these great men. That they were divinely called and inspired to do their work, OAROOAW > 
 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) MARK TWAIN It is greatly to be doubted if the reputation of any other American author has grown as rapidly in the past decade and a half, as has the reputation of Samuel L. Clemens, who wrote under the nom de plume of Mark Twain. A short time ago a young preacher, the Reverend Dr. Charles F. Aked, who lectured under the auspicious of the Extension Division of the University of Utah, treated Mark Twain as a philosopher and moralist. This was something new. We are all used to thinking of him as a humorist, as one who has unmasked our shams and who has written very delightful and illuminating books of travel, but we had not thought of him seriously as a moralist?still Dr. Aked appears to have made his point. He said in his lecture, "there is enough in the Gospel of Mark Twain to make good men and women out of all of us." Discussing the maxims in the Calendar of Pudd'nhead Wilson, Dr. Aked drew attention to such statements as, "a man may have no bad habits and yet be worthless." "Man is the only animal that blushes or needs to," the preacher suggested that this should include women also. Again quoting Wilson, "When in doubt tell the truth."
It is now lacking little of a century since Samuel Langhorne Clemens first saw the light of day, in the village of Florida, in the State of Missouri, on Nov. 30, 1835?at the time when Missouri was at the very frontier of our civilization and its boundary had not been defined: St. Louis was at that time a city of some 12,000 people, while Chicago was not yet incorporated and had a population of something over 4000 inhabitants. His education was obtained in the village school of Hannibal. In his case, as well as that of Benjamin Franklin, it was supplemented by training in a printing office, which he entered at 13 years of age, where he learned the rudiments much better than many boys learned them in school, for when typesetting he learned to spell, punctuate and look after some other details necessary for a writer to know. His choice of occupation was fortunate, for later he had enough skill to be classed as a journeyman printer. This meant that he could go anywhere he would and be sure of picking up work, consequently it is not surprising at all that we learn that he plied his trade in St. Louis, Cincinnati, Philadelphia, and New York and in all probability many other places. By 1851 he had wandered about enough to grow tired, so he took up with another vocation, equally as adventurous, he became a pilot. And to this new adventure we owe the delightful book, A Mississippi Pilot.
We next find him acting as a private secretary to his brother who had obtained the appointment of secretary of the Territory of Nevada. Going into Nevada in those days meant going into mining. Clemens tried mining but met with little success, he did not discover a pile of gold, but he did obtain the material for Roughing It. It was while he was living in Nevada that Mr. C. C. Goodwin, many years editor of the Salt Lake Tribune, became acquainted with him, later including a sketch of him in his book As I Remember Them. He now turned to printing and was for a short time city editor for the Virginia City Enterprise, where he began to write humorous articles and to sign them "Mark Twain" reminiscent of his pilot days, when he heard the call from the man who was taking soundings from the deck of the Mississippi River Boat.
In 1865 we find Mr. Clemens in San Francisco engaging in journalism and mining operations. From here he went to Hawaii, where he collected the material that has helped to make Hawaii famous. On his return from the islands, he delivered lectures in California, these were later published in the volume called The Jumping Frog and Other Sketches, published in 1869. The Jumping Frog is one of the best short stories known to our literature. The incident is not original with Clemens, but its atmosphere and setting are. Now he took his famous voyage through the Mediterranean and traveled in adjoining countries. The result of this trip was the well known volume Innocence Abroad, published in 1869. If he did not awake one morning to find himself great, he certainly did discover that his fame had spread far and wide, 125,000 copies were sold in three years. And the book is still selling, every generation loves it and the traveler in Europe almost invariably reads it some time or other. Nothing is more common in the experience of English speaking travelers than to hear some one quote Mark Twain. As long as Americans remain American in their tastes and in their feelings, and Europe treasures her historic and art shrines, Mark Twain's books will endure. Innocence Abroad was followed by A Tramp Abroad, which is equally popular.
Somebody has said, "if ever, any writer understood the boy nature from A to izzard, the name of that writer is Mark Twain." He knew what boys think, and what they feel and what they like to do, consequently the characters of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn are classics in American Literature. American writers have been more successful in the characterization of boys than have the writers of other nations, as a result we might search in vain throughout the literature of the World to find two writers who portray boy life for us as well as Mark Twain and Booth Tarkington have done.
In his Yankee in King Arthur's Court, he has turned chivalry inside out and endeavored to show us that if the aristocrats enjoyed polished manners in the days of chivalry, those of other groups lived very miserable lives, their rights and comforts being virtually ignored.
Clemens suffered many domestic disappointments, his wife's death being one of the keenest. The tragic death of his daughter Jean resulted in one of the finest pieces of work that ever came from his pen. It proved that the man who has given us so many things to laugh about could voice the very deepest pathos. Before his death he gave us a very beautiful and a very serious piece of work in Joan of Arc. He said it was his best piece of work. His Autobiography was published after his death by Harpers', the publishing house which put out so many splendid editions of his works.
Mark Twain was a good business man; while he suffered one financial collapse, he entirely recuperated financially before his death. Harper's, his publishers, were once asked how much they paid Mark Twain for his work, while refusing to be specific, they admitted that they paid him more per word than any other author who had ever written for them. His summer home was at Hartford Connecticut, where Charles Dudley Warner and Harriet Beecher Stowe resided. His death occurred April 21st, 1910, at Redding, Connecticut
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give an example of Mark Twain's skill in treating boy life.
2. Select some passages from Innocence Abroad or A Tramp Abroad that will illustrate his ability to write travel articles.
3. Have the members of the class repeat the most humorous thing they know of, attributed to Mark Twain.
4. See if you can discover with Mr. Aked some wisdom maxims in Mark Twain.
5. Have some one tell the story of the Jumping Frog, and see if you can discover why it has been called one of the best short stories in American Literature.
6. If you can obtain Mr. C. C. Goodwin's book, As I Remember Them, it might be well to read to the class what he says about Mark Twain.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
PHYSICAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
The problems of childhood that will be studied in this department will be treated under four headings. These four classifications of child problems, (1) physical, (2) mental, (3) emotional, and (4) social, have been made, in the text that will be followed. The author, Dr. Ira S. Wile, points out that such a classification is an arbitrary one and is used to simplify the presentation of the material. An abnormality in any phase of an individual's make-up interacts on his whole personality. A study, therefore, of the problems in these four groups should not be considered as isolated phenomena but their relation to one another should constantly be kept in mind.
The first and most important phase of child development is the physical. An individual's career is controlled to a great extent by his degree of physical well-being. A child, below par physically, may be unable to attend school or may be so easily fatigued that his mental processes are dulled and his training is therefore limited. In adult life, the same defect that interfered with the education of the child, may be the cause of economic failure. Malnutrition, or broken arches, or a local infection, etc., may spell the difference between normal, healthy, happy childhood and lethargy, school failure, and unhappiness. The same defects if uncorrected will perhaps keep the individual in the group of social failures, barring him from the satisfaction of attaining economic independence, and its accompanying successes in adult life.
Every person, however, who has some physical defect or handicap is not doomed to economic and social failure. Individuals do not respond in the same manner to any set of experiences. Ill-health or the loss of sight, or of a limb, affect individuals differently. It is possible for some persons to transcend their physical handicaps in a magnificent manner, succeeding at undertakings that appear beyond their power. These unusual successes are obviously the result of some special adjustment that the person is able to make to the experiences of losing some power and of being different from the rest of the world.
The adjustment to a physical defect or to any abnormality presents an important psychological mechanism. One of the fundamental desires of every individual is to feel equal to his fellows. It is a phase of the "ego-urge" to wish to appear to advantage to our neighbors and friends. If a person feels himself different, or inadequate, or handicapped, he naturally has a sense of inferiority. An individual's conscious self shrinks from the idea that he is different or inferior, so the unconscious self assists him to see himself in a better light. His unconscious self finds some way to repay him for his deficiency. This unconscious process is known as "compensation." This "compensation" may take a form of behavior that will be beneficial to the individual, but it also frequently happens that "compensatory" behavior is most unwholesome.
The reference to a crippled child in the text offers an example of this process. The author suggests that a child with a crippled arm makes some adjustment to his handicap. He unquestionably feels his difference and he may remain quiet and aloof at school and on the playground, finding an outlet for expression in some other way. He may spend much time day-dreaming and indulging in phantasies (perhaps picturing himself a hero in many perilous situations) to compensate for his infirmity in reality. Indulgence in excessive day-dreaming in the adolescent is considered a very unwholesome mental habit as it keeps the individual from developing the independent mental processes of maturity.
The child with a handicap may react in an entirely different way to his experience. His unpleasant feeling of inferiority may unconsciously create a desire to gain attention or be superior in some manner. If this desire leads to some earnest effort it may result in a real accomplishment. But, frequently, the unconscious desire to gain attention leads the individual into difficulty. He may become belligerent and unruly, or he may exploit his handicap to gain sympathy and to escape responsibilities he should be learning to face.
It is not only the cripple and the blind that have a special adjustment to make to physical handicaps. These, because of their seriousness present outstanding problems, but even minor physical handicaps, have an effect on behavior. Deafness, nervousness, skin eruptions, heart disease and the whole category of defects present not only physical problems to be treated, but often affect the emotional and mental life of the individual. A child may learn that illness gains for him attentions that are pleasing and satisfying, and his suggestibility may keep him in a state of near invalidism. Illness at times is a tool used to secure attention and to gain desired ends. Intelligent treatment of childhood ills is important to prevent later behavior problems. Much petting and pampering at times of illness has no beneficial medical effect, and frequently is the cause of later behavior problems. Just as it is not wise to place a premium on crying in infancy it is unwise to make an experience of invalidism so satisfying to the emotions and the ego that the child later tries to regain these satisfactions by unconsciously feigning illness.
The conservation of the health of childhood is a task that is enlisting the attention of the medical profession, the educators, and the social workers. Recent studies of the physical health of school children, of the men in service during the world war, and of life insurance agencies, disclose that a large proportion of the population are suffering some handicaps. The study of 20,000,000 school children of the United States, shows that 75% possess some outstanding physical defect. The table is printed herewith:
Mental defects....................... 1% Tuberculosis......................... 5% Defective hearing.................... 5% Defective sight.................... 25% Diseased tonsils or adenoids....... 15-25% Deformed feet, spine, or joints.... 10-20% Defective teeth................... 50-75% Malnutrition..................... 15-25%
It is not possible to discuss the symptoms and discovery and treatment of diseases of childhood at this point. Subsequent lessons will point out some particular diseases and their implications. The chart, however, should bring parents to a realization that a majority of children have defects that can be remedied?defects that are frustrating the development, the hopes, the happiness, and success of the individual. The defect, whether it is defective teeth or an impairment of vision, should not be considered a single, minor defect. It is necessary to be aware of the future dangers of the effect of a handicap on the whole developing personality of the child. Health, as the author points out, is "the quality of life that renders the individual fit to live most and serve best." By providing the medical attention and home hygiene that insures a higher standard of health, the contribution to the growing generation will be not only health, but a richer and fuller life.
Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, Physical Problems, pages 15-21.
Questions and Problems
1. In what way does poor health affect school work? Economic success?
2. Why do some persons with handicaps succeed?
3. What is meant by "compensation?"
4. Why is it necessary for an individual to make an adjustment to a handicap?
5. Why is it unwise to pamper a sick child?
6. Account for high percent of malnutrition on the chart; for defective teeth; for defective sight.
7.