General Session Wednesday Afternoon
THE VALUE OF LAW OBSERVANCE PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON
A few weeks ago I was given a copy of a most interesting monograph entitled, "The Value of Law Observance." I had not read far in the pamphlet before I was impressed with the fact that humanity desires those things that are not beneficial, and that discipline is required from our earliest infancy. Children, if unrestrained, would eat sweets in preference to wholesome vegetables or milk. Wise mothers put sweets beyond their reach. Very few children would attend school regularly without the encouragement of older people. To these immature minds, a picnic or picture show would be more desirable. Discipline must begin early, but, parents, do not make this more difficult by planning picnics and picture shows on school days. Nor is the desire to live selfishly for the pleasure of the moment confined to children. Many people who have grown to the stature of the adult, are still immature in meeting the exigencies of life. For this reason laws and restrictions are made to govern people. Often prohibitive laws are necessary. Our city laws say we must drive on right side of street; that we must observe traffic lights; that we must not drive above a certain speed. Each of these regulations curtail our personal liberty, but even an immature mind should see the value of observing such law. John Stuart Mills says: "Liberty of every individual extends to the point where it infringes upon the right of some other individual." Only the hermit has the right to live as he chooses, and he doesn't live. It is only as we adjust to others, sacrificing our individual wishes to the good of all, that we truly live, so the value of law observance is imperative in every act of life. To live harmoniously in a group involves discipline where the individual merges his own preferment into the group, which in turn confers upon him benefits and privileges individually impossible. There are really two types of laws—the English Common Law, which the colonists adopted, and the Statute Law. The Common Law of the English people followed by many years the customs or usage of the people before it became a legal form. That is, the people lived the law before it took the form of decisions by courts. The Statute Law is quite the opposite. Frequently a law is written upon the statute book of a State or Nation before it has become the custom of all the people who are asked to observe it. Such a law is our Public Health observance. I can remember when there was no quarantine law. When one of our playmates died of diphtheria, all the children went to the public funeral, with the little casket open that we might say goodbye to her. Years later, a young mother living in Salt Lake knew that her child had been exposed to diphtheria, but there was a reunion in her home town. She just had to go, and as there was no one to care for the sick baby, she took it along. The price paid for her personal liberty was six new little graves in the cemetery, and six RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pairs of empty arms. Here was the need of a statute law, because one person infringed upon the rights of many. Communities are safer because people observe the quarantine law. Another law which has been fought by many is the pure food law. It is unbelievable that anyone should object to this, Benzoate of Soda in food, Tubercular meat, and so forth; but when the bill was before Congress, a testifying witness for a manufacturer of preserved foods said, "I am simply pointing out that the principle of this bill is wrong. It is not fair." Gambling and Prostitution measures met with the same objections. Do you remember when we had a "red light" district in Salt Lake, where licensed prostitution was carried on, and do you remember the bitter opposition raised against abolishing this evil? People said then, as they are saying about beer now, "We need the revenue." Are there no higher standards than money? Our Government is spending millions of dollars to prevent diseases of the body. Through the splendid efforts of our Health Department, communicable diseases are almost wiped out. Typhoid, small pox, diphtheria, yellow fever, but is there a parent who would choose impaired mentality to body ailment? Read the article in our April issue of the Relief Society Magazine, written by Dr. Middleton, where he so graphically tells of the injury to both body and mind through drink. Every mother's heart must chill with terror when she reads about the fine young medical student. Are your son and daughter safe? Can you imagine greater anguish than to have your daughter married to a man who takes poison into his system that deprives him of his God-given power to think? Who abuses instead of protects her? Can money pay the price? And what of this revenue we hear so much about? I quote from the monograph again: "Under the laws existing in the United States before Prohibition, a man had a right to become a drunkard and remain one, and the State had therefore its duty of taking care of him." Aside from the degradation and suffering of women and children, consider the cost to all of us of caring for drunkards. "It is stated by students of criminology that alcoholism is responsible for 80% of all anti-social propensities. 20 to 35% of inmates in State poor houses indicate alcoholic history: Alcohol is responsible for at least 25% of insane, for 40% of neglected and abandoned children in the United States, for 50% of convicts in prisons, for 80% of inmates of jails and workhouses, for a large number of suicides and accidents, and for almost all venereal diseases." These figures are for 1909-1910. This expense must be cared for by the State. A Lord Chief Justice of England states, "If thoroughly examined, 9/10 of the crimes of England and Wales could be traced to drink." When we consider the millions of dollars the Government is spending now to feed the unemployed citizens, fine people who cannot pay taxes on homes or farms, and then expect a revenue of $150,000,000 for just the tax on beer, can anyone imagine the misery and suffering which must follow? The starved children whose beaten and bruised bodies, whose poor little twisted minds will be the terrific price we pay to keep our Junior colleges open. If education and employment can be provided only by such expenditure 290 of human lives, can civilization continue? Read an article in the Readers' Digest for March, 1933, entitled: "Why Women Rose Against the Saloon." It is written by Mary Austin, who remembers the saloon. She says: "It was a place from which might issue at any moment people you knew, other girls' fathers, forcible ejections of sodden and bleary men who proceeded to be violently sick on the sidewalk. Sooner or later you might meet the mother of one of your schoolmates, shamefacedly steering her abusive lord to their home." Later in the article Mary Austin tells of a pretty little mother who used to bring her three children to the Austin home to be left until their father recovered from one of his spells, and how she came one night with a great bloody bruise on her face. Is there money enough in this world to pay for this to come to your daughter? Nor are bruised and broken bodies the worst that happens in drunkards' homes. A friend of mine, whom many of you know, lived for a time in an Eastern College town, where her husband attended college. There were seven habitual drunkards living within a block or two of my friend's home. I wish you might hear her tell the heart-breaking stories of those women. Of men reeling home in the evening to wives and children, loathsome and beastly, drunk and filthy, who had no control over the contents of their stomachs or other body functions. Can you think of the horror where drink and lust are close instincts? This tragedy may never come to any of you, but can women remain unmoved while women and children in our land are suffering this abuse and degradation? As long as men and women have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not the stamina to refrain from injuring themselves and others, should not their guardian, the Government, do as wise parents, and put this harm beyond their reach? We hear people say there is more drinking now than before Prohibition. Probably they haven't lived as long as I for I have vivid memories of drunken men reeling out of saloons right on Main Street here. Women could scarcely walk on First or Second South, between West Temple and State Streets, without encountering dozens of human wrecks, helpless and beastly. I am on the down town streets now more than I was fifteen years ago, and I have not seen an intoxicated man lying on the sidewalk for years and years—have you? An editorial from the Pittsburgh Post of March 4, 1890, states that there were reported to be 4,000 speak-easies in Philadelphia. Of course, prohibition of liquor does not entirely prohibit drinking, any more than the law against theft or prostitution or gambling entirely removes these evils. But can anyone question the statement that law observance pays in increased individual production, greater thrift, longer life and greater enjoyment of living? One man said: "The reason I do not drink is because without liquor I have a clearer head and a stronger body, a lighter heart and a heavier purse." A news item from the Pittsburgh Leader of March, 1907, states: "From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1905 (29 years) 30,763 illicit distilleries were seized in the United States. The greatest number captured any one year was in 1898, the number being 2,391. Nearly half the seizures that year were in Georgia. From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1905, (29 years) 54 revenue raiders were RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE killed and 94 wounded; total casualties, 148. This does not include informers or deputy marshals who were killed making arrests. Casualties were much more frequent when the service was young. From July 1, 1876, to July 1, 1882, (six years) 35 raiders were killed and 61 wounded; total, 96 casualties. During this period 5,230 stills were raided, making the casualties 1 to every 54 stills seized. Since 1876 there has been one or more casualties every year excepting 1894, 1900 and 1903. The 291 Government keeps no record of moonshiners killed." In the stress and anxiety our Nation, as well as the whole world is experiencing, I feel as the author of the Monograph: "World leadership is likely to come to that Nation whose individuals are characterized by the greatest sobriety and efficiency." In the language of the great latter-day Prophet: "He that keepeth the law is saved by that law." This is just as true in political and civic application as in a religious one.
FROM THE SEWING CIRCLE TO THE CABINET MRS. INEZ K. ALLEN Member of the General Board
"I turn the key for women," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, less than one hundred years ago, at the organization of the National Woman's Relief Society. At that time group activity of women was confined almost entirely to the sewing circle. Under the law her earnings and all she possessed, belonged to her husband. Even her children might be disposed of by him without her consent. She was shut out from all colleges, and there was not a single free public high school for girls. Only poorly paid occupations were open to her. Her husband might even beat her. Now we have a woman in the President's Cabinet. Frances Perkins is United States Secretary of Labor. This is said to be the most human department in the Federal Government. It is not surprising that woman should rise through this channel. The Prophet said, on the day when the key was turned for women: "If you follow the tendencies which God has given you, how great and glorious will be your achievements." God-given tendencies of woman are human tendencies—love, sympathetic understanding, kindness. Many great women have labored patiently and long to prepare the way for this recognition. Miss Perkins ascends to the high position in the President's official family through her sincere interest in, and desire to do a kindness unto the least of God's children. She has never worked in a mine or steel mill, nor had a union card, nor acted as a labor lobbyist, but she has lived with, and understands working people. She knows the laws, she helped to write them. She is a Doctor of Law, having studied in the United States and abroad. She has never stood on a wet cold floor, breathing hot moist air while turning a wringer in a laundry. But she felt the pain of others doing it, and she helped to draft a code that rescued all laundry workers from such misery in the State of New York. She has never been hungry or jobless, on the strike or picket line. But she does know the infinitude of causes of friction between employer and employee, and that they can never be remedied merely by statute. "You can regulate hours and wages," she says, "but there is no hard and fast technique for labor disputes. Arbitration is not a science, it is an art." At the conflagration of the Triangle Shirt Waist Factory, Miss Perkins stood with hundreds of others and watched helplessly the fire in which 146 girls were burned, smothered or crushed to death because of lack of fire prevention. She immediately took the lead in the enactment of 32 bills for the protection of women workers. When Miss Perkins views the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE $4.95 silk dress in the shop window, she sees back of it many women who earn their bitter bread in tears and silence, while they stitch, stitch, stitch in a sweat shop at from 3c to 5c an hour. She sees in the wake of these atrocities an inevitable train of child dependency, illness and old age, for which, on depressed wages, no provision can be made. Yes, woman has risen from the sewing circle to the cabinet. May she succeed in helping all to rise above misery. May we each one carry on with the same courage and faith, may we continue to follow our God-given tendencies.
ADJUSTMENT—THE CALL OF THE HOUR COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
In this rapidly changing world we are being called upon constantly to meet new situations and to face new problems. And the question naturally arises: How are we meeting these new situations and facing these new problems? How are we adjusting to these changes? In the last two decades we have experienced one of the most critical periods in the world's history. There have been a number of major calamities with all the evil results therefrom. In addition we are living in a period of transition and change. People have thus been called upon to face startling and strange conditions. First came the world war with its reckless waste of human lives and property and with all the other evils which followed in its wake; then the financial crash and economic stagnation and finally world-wide unemployment. I doubt if there is a family in the civilized world which has not been affected by one or more of these calamities. There are many other changes which are going on quietly and subtly. President Hoover's commission on social trends says that we are older than we have ever been before; i. e., the world is made up of older people, that our birth rate is declining. Therefore as a people the elders are increasing faster than the children and as a result there will be an increase in dependent old people unless there is more opportunity for work for older people or unless they can accumulate more during their working years. We are healthier than we used to be. More of us live to middle life. However, we have no success in controlling diseases peculiar to middle and old age, with the exception of Tuberculosis, or in postponing break-downs. The physical care of children by communities is much better than ever before. It is appalling, however, that nearly 5% of American babies at birth have prospects of becoming so mentally diseased in adult life as to require submission to some institution. Divorces are increasing, so also are broken homes. The ability to face reality squarely and to make satisfactory adjustment is a great asset. It is a sign of good mental health. In fact the modern conception of mental health is adjustment of one's self to inner and outer strains in a manner satisfactory both to the individual himself and to his associates. People who make a habit of facing the facts of life as they really are (instead of as they would like to have them) seldom require the services of a nerve specialist or have a nervous breakdown. This habit should be formed in childhood. It is extremely difficult for an adult to acquire it if all his life he has exercised instead the habit of fleeing from reality. Fortunate is the man who can and will recognize and walk up to his difficulties, problems and perplexities, who will drag them out in the open sunlight, stare them in the face and make effort to overcome them, and 293 who, failing in overcoming them or partially overcoming them can adjust to the final result. In my opinion the most powerful and sustaining force in helping us to meet the realities of life is religion, and so I make a plea for the religious life. Religious faith is a cure for worry, anxiety and fear, and a great asset to mental health. It helps us to face danger and peril, disappointment and loss, sorrow and death. It is a source of comfort when everything else seems to fail us. Religious faith helps us to put our trust in the Lord, to rest our case with Him and to trust in Him for the final outcome. The individual who can do this is calm, unshakable, and full of equanimity. Religious faith, like good mental habits, to be most effective must be acquired early in life and exercised throughout life. It is its own great reward.
THE NEED OF SPIRITUALITY MRS. ETHEL R. SMITH Member of the General Board
There is no influence in the world that will fortify and sustain mankind in the battle with the stern and bitter vicissitudes of life like the spirit of the Master. But faith cannot be bought or quickly obtained in the hour of need. It is acquired slowly through patient devotion, right living, and service to others. "Call upon me while I am near," says the Lord. If we build up spiritual reserves we will need to know there is a God in the Heavens who over-rules all things. We need to recognize his power and intelligence in all the works of nature, remembering that the greatest and truest development of character and the most joyous happiness have come through this knowledge. We need the power to appreciate the blessings that are ours, realizing that fine tapestries, beautiful paintings and automobiles, do not constitute true wealth; but that sweet spirit of peace and contentment that can be found in the humble cottage and which comes not from "bitter envying and strife," but from Him who maketh peace. One of the greatest needs of the world to bring to pass a higher type of spirituality is for men to love their neighbors as themselves. This is an eternal law. Selfishness is the basis of most of our troubles of today. In unselfish consecration to humanity many brave lives have been spent and almost invariably the cloak of spirituality has been their inspiration. Such have come from all the 294 walks of life. Great leaders have manifested their faith in the Almighty and relied upon His sustaining arm. Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover prayed for Divine guidance. On his way to the inaugural services Franklin D. Roosevelt stopped at his church to pray, and as you followed his address were you not lifted up with renewed hope when you heard these words: "In this dedication of a nation, we humbly ask the blessings of God. May He protect each and every one of us. May He guide me in the days to come." In the spirit of prayer is comfort, inspiration, and safety. When hardships, sorrows, and even death come, if one is guided by a faith in God he has a mighty bulwark upon which to lean in his hour of need. As with the individual so with the nation. Roger Babson has said: "More religion rather than more legislation is the need of the hour." People should understand that before prosperity can return there must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be a renewed interest in the spiritual life of both individuals and the nation. Nations should realize that the world has always possessed raw materials and labor; but has been prosperous only when the people have been actuated by a religious faith to use those sources for advancement and service. This is the law of life. The story of the hardships of the founders of our faith has always appealed to me and I have marvelled at the fortitude and courage that could bring forth their song "All is well." I have found the answer in the words of the martyr Parley P. Pratt, "Yet we were happy for the love of God was in our hearts." And so may we love Him, remembering the words inscribed on the walls of Stanford University, "There is no narrowing so deadly as the narrowing of man's spiritual horizon." Trust in Him who said, "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest."
MRS LUACINE S. CLARK
I did not realize just what this Relief Society work meant to me until I was away from it. For the past three years I have lived in another country, and in an entirely different life from the one I was used to. I soon began to inquire into their charity work, and I was amazed to see the great things they were doing in Mexico. I shall be happy today to tell you a little about our neighbors on the South of us, a people we have learned to love as our own. A tremendous amount of work is being done by public, private, and semi-private charities; enormous sums are spent in this work. I saw the women of Mexico work. I know their high ideals, the tenderness of their hearts, and the burning desire they have to work for those who are less fortunate than themselves. Mexican women are naturally retiring; they shrink from publicity of any kind, and shine best in their homes where they are devoted wives and mothers. So when a group of mothers, seeing the great need for some organized social welfare work for needy children, began to study this question, a great transformation took place, and woman came into her own in Mexico. These mothers formed what is known as the National Association of Protection to Infancy, and began the first institution controlled by women in Mexico. It is said, that before this time, no connected charity work was known. A Catholic Priest in 1740 established what is known as the Cradle House in Mexico, but this, due to changing conditions, disappeared and needy children were forced to go to Asylums not connected with social work. Naturally the unfortunate little ones suffered as a consequence. So soon as the women sponsored this work, much progress was made. Under their supervision, love and motherly instincts, they established Home schools, Maternity Homes, and posts for the distribution of milk called the Drop of Milk. Thus they raised the standards of living for unfortunate and expectant mothers, gave them care before, and at birth, and taught them hygienic principles so they could carry this knowledge into their homes. Compulsory vaccination was done free of charge so people could be safe from Small Pox. Perhaps one of the most far reaching pieces of welfare work done in Mexico City is the Home School, and as the name indicates it is a home where the Mother's care is substituted by trained persons perhaps more familiar with hygienic needs of the child, and where it received an education as well. These schools are modern houses, built in the poorest sections to help the working mother, who of necessity has to leave her children to earn the livelihood. For five centavos a day she can take her child to these houses if he is not younger than two, or older than six years. Here he receives a triple education, physical, intellectual and social. He wears a uniform, is bathed, examined by some of the best physicians in Mexico City; he is fed milk, and suitable food planned according to the schedule made by dietitians; trained Kindergarten Teachers are employed to direct his play; he is put to bed one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hour each day; he is taught to wash his hands, his teeth, to care for his hair, to eat correctly, and to have proper respect for his companions and parents. These groups of children are carefully studied by doctors who classify them into groups according to their physical development and their intelligence. Each Home School is provided with a trained nurse, authorized by the Government, whose duty it is to visit the homes of all children enrolled, so the nurse can become better acquainted with the social and economic conditions of the places in which the children live. She must treat the children according to the doctor's directions, must record their clinic history, must vaccinate them, and see that all instruments are properly disinfected. It is very evident what a blessing these homes are in the communities. In six months, 5,426 children have been taught to be clean and properly fed. Up-to-date there are ten of these houses in operation. No one can measure the amount of good they will do for the future generations of Mexico. All these homes are controlled by the Government. The money for their support is raised by selling a special stamp called the Infancia. This stamp bears a picture of a mother and child, and must be put on all letters mailed and delivered in Mexico. Mrs. Ortiz Rubio was President of these Home School organizations, and took a vital interest in this welfare work. I had the pleasure of visiting many institutions with her. Besides these Home Schools, there are also Maternity Homes which are thoroughly equipped. Patients can go to these free of charge if they are unable to pay. Those who can afford it, pay the small sum of five Pesos only, for confinement. In six  
LITTLE MEXICAN CHILDREN ENJOYING A CUP OF REFRESHING COOL MILK
KINDERGARTEN CLASS
298 months 406 births were recorded in one home. If after birth the mother cannot nurse her child, free milk is provided for her, a mixed artificial food chemically prepared by experts. This milk is put in sterilized bottles which are carefully packed in ice cases, with full instructions as to the quantity necessary for a feeding. In six months 55,441 orders were sent out, and 24,169 bottles were given away. This Drop of Milk movement is also found throughout other states in Mexico. The women of Mexico consider this but the beginning of their work. They hope to establish vacational colonies where sickly children may have a chance to regain their health. They also plan to have a law enacted covering the moral life of children, and providing for their full protection. When this is accomplished they feel they will have laid the foundation of a greater country and a stronger and more united Mexico. Besides the great welfare work done by the Mexican women, other societies also are doing extensive charity work. The Junior League, an organization of young women, has established a splendid library, the proceeds of which are used to help tiny babies in another Cradle Home not controlled by the Government. The League has furnished a large and modern bathroom for the babies, and each Christmas they give eighty-five sweaters to keep them warm. The girls pledge to give fifty Pesos each a year for charity work. To raise their quota some make candy, others cakes, the musical members give a concert, others sell flower holders, but no matter how, they all succeed in raising the promised amount. They have also furnished a very comfortable room in the American Hospital for the use of patients who are unable to pay. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Rotarians are sponsoring an Agricultural School for orphans and homeless boys who might otherwise spend their time on the streets. The school accommodates forty boys who learn to read and write; each has a garden where he can raise vegetables or flowers; they have a good swimming pool and are taught to keep themselves clean. The wives of the Rotarians make shirts and underwear for the boys who always look clean and neat. When a boy reaches the age of fourteen, a home is found for him where he can earn money for his support, by doing chores, and he is trained to be a useful, honest citizen. There is also a well organized home for fallen women, who are being treated, educated and taught some trade. Doctors and dentists visit the home daily. An up-to-date kitchen, with steam cookers, furnishes good wholesome food for the inmates. Some of the women do beautiful fancy work, others are taught to knit stockings and sweaters by machinery. These are sold to help maintain the institution. The General Hospital, which does a great deal of charity work, is also well equipped. Dr. Charles Mayo, who visited the hospitals, told me he was amazed to find such modern equipment; X-ray and all the latest inventions can be found there. There are many Government institutions, besides those I have mentioned, in which thousands of orphan children are provided for. The buildings are modern in their equipment, and the children are cared for by the latest scientific methods. There are also purely privately-endowed institutions' which, however, operate under Government supervision. Mexico is fortunate in her physicians. Besides their training in medical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE schools in Mexico (which take high rank) many Mexican physicians go abroad for training, attending the best medical schools in America and Europe. Culturally the physicians stand very high, particularly in music. For example, Dr. Silva, who had charge of the Public Health Department at the time I made my visits, is an accomplished pianist and a talented composer. Another, Dr. Ortiz Tirada, ranks as one of the finest tenors in the country. Many others equally talented might be mentioned. The obstacles which Mexico has ' to overcome in order to extend this welfare work may be properly. Called stupendous. These are principally incident to communication. Mexico is a country of great mountains, deep canyons, large rivers, impenetrable forests. The villages, frequently small, are found in the canyon bottoms, on the hillsides, upon the Mesas, in the depths of the forest. To reach them, and to unite them together in working units is a task which would daunt women of less courage than those of Mexico. But there are certain elements of the situation that are helpful. While of 299 necessity the living conditions in remote localities are more or less primitive, yet the native Mexican is gentle, kind, hospitable, industrious, intelligent, eager to learn, and he is always an apt scholar. Thus the women of Mexico who are leading out in this welfare work will find ready and willing hands among the people to assist them in their labors. The native Mexicans have an inborn refinement, an artistic sense, they love the beautiful, and are naturally religious. No matter where you meet them they are courteous, and respond quickly. So soon as one of them feels you are his friend, all he possesses is at your service. The women do beautiful fancy work. The men are equally deft with tools and make beautiful pottery, leather work, and handicraft. In conclusion, I venture to express the hope that it may be found possible soon to organize among our native church members in Mexico, who are collected in several prosperous branches, Relief Society organizations, for they could be of great service in connection with the general program of welfare work in Mexico. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT "THIS is a very marvelous and wonderful congregation. I am sure that there are no other people of any religious denomination no larger than ours, that could have such a showing as I see before me here today. I rejoice in the wonderful accomplishments of our Relief Society throughout the Church, at home and abroad. Those of us who, in the providence of the Lord, have never had the advice and counsel and example of fathers to lead us in the battle of life, and are indebted for all of the success that we have made in life to the teachings and examples of our noble mothers, take, I believe, a greater interest in the Relief Society work, and in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement work in our Church, than those who have had the benefit of the advice and counsel of both father and mother. I believe that the great majority of us who have been reared by our mothers are ready and willing at all times to give them credit for what we may have accomplished in the battle of life. There seems to be a power 300 which the mother possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior, in my judgment, to the power of the father, and this almost without exception. I have talked with a great many highly educated men and women who have usually been willing to credit the mothers for their success in life more than the fathers. As the daily vocations in life take fathers away from home, they do not have 'opportunity to get as close to the hearts of their children as do the mothers. After all it is by love, real genuine love of our fellows, that we accomplish the most and a mother's love seems to be the most perfect and the most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about, and I for one rejoice in it, because of its wonderful example to me. T call to mind having an argument with a man who had been an apostate, in fact was an apostate at the time, and he remarked that no person with intelligence would be a "Mormon." I answered that I had not yet received a testimony of the divinity of the work in which we, as Latter-day Saints, are engaged, but, I said, 'I am going to tell you something that will surprise you, my friend. I have never yet borne mv testimony as to the divinity of this work, but second only to the love and respect of the teachings that have been inspired in me by my sainted mother, the one thing above all others that has made me a Latter-day Saint, is the life of the apostate 'Mormon.' I have discovered that when men living clean, sweet, pure lives in the Church have become indifferent, have broken the commandments of the Lord, have failed to live the laws of health as laid down through the revelations of God to His people, they have drifted away from the truth, and become RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vicious, and many of them have become liars. I am willing to acknowledge that if I saw a man or a woman doing those things which are ennobling, those things that make them ~ better in every way, if they lost their faith I would be frightened, but I can say I have never yet been frightened on that account. I have found the exact opposite; and certainly when I discover men engaged in preaching against the Church, who have once been for it, found them telling falsehoods against the Church, that fact has strengthened my faith in the divinity of this work. I have been an honest tithe payer, | have observed the Word of Wisdom, I have attended my Sunday School (at this time I announced that I had recently become an officer in the first Improvement Association organized in our Church for young men), I am living my religion, but if you have something better to offer me, I am willing to accept it." But he was not able to give me anything better. I call to mind my intimate association, as a child, with the family of William S. Godbe. I never knew a more generous, bigger hearted or more faithful man, but you know there is a saying in the scriptures that 'to obey is better than sacrifice," and it is only when men and women fail to be obedient to any special commandment, or any special advice of great importance, that they lose their faith. This man knew the advice and counsel of Brigham Young, but he paid no attention to it, and he drifted away; but he was one of the exceptions of men who drifted away from the Church, to my mind, as he did not indulge in falsehoods against it, and I rejoice because of this. I call to mind that my mother made her living by going out to sew RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE for people, and that she sewed for the family of William S. Godbe. Upon one occasion (the house has just been taken down during the last few months and replaced by an oil stand, where they sell gasoline and oil) mother was sewing there in one of the bedrooms. The house was on the corner of Second East and Second South. They were laughing and joking in the parlor over a planchette, or ouija board. They said: "Come in Rachel, and have some fun with us." She said: "No, President Brigham Young said anyone who would fool with that thing, would be led to spiritualism." Of course no person could receive spiritual manifestations through a contrivance of this kind, who would not eventually apostatize. At this time Brother Godbe was first counselor to the Bishop in our ward. She would not go in, so they brought the machine into the room where she was, but it would not work. Then they went back into the parlor and it worked again and would write for them on a piece of paper. They came back and said: “Come on in, Rachel, and have a good time." To my utter astonishment she went in. You know children are quick to call their parents down if they are not doing the right thing. As we were going home, I said: "Mother, why did you go into that room when President Young said you should not fool with that machine?' She said: "My boy, did you notice the machine did not work when they brought it into the bedroom? I told the Lord I was not fooling with the machine, I was not running after it, and 1 prayed to Him when they brought it into the room that He would shut it up, and when they asked me to go into the parlor I told the Lord if he would give me the impression that it would not work, 301 |} would go in. That is what happened, my boy, they could not make it work." What is the final history? Brigham Young said it would lead to apostasy, suicide and insanity, and I have been told that Mr. Godbe's wife, who stayed with him after he left the Church, lost her mind. I remember the brightest young man in my own school days, who committed suicide. I remember staying one night at the Williams Hotel, in Milford, and the next morning looking for William Godbe's son. We found his body about fifteen hundred feet or more from the hotel; he had gone out and blown out his brains. I know of nothing that I feel is of so great value in life as to be obedient to the counsel and advice of the Lord, and of his servants in this our day. Not that I rejoice in the calamities that came to this man, but I rejoice in incidents like this that have come into my life, that have strengthened my faith in the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. It has fallen to my lot to travel in many lands and climes, and to come in contact with a great variety of people in many walks of life, and it is my privilege here today to say to you that from my childhood until today I have never run across anything in the acts of men, in the teachings of men, in my travels at home and abroad, that has in the slightest degree lessened my faith in the divinity of the work in which you and I are engaged. On the contrary, I have been constantly finding additional evidence of the divinity of the work. I appreciate the opportunity of coming here today. I am sorry that circumstances were such that I could not come on time. Punctuality is part of my stock in trade. I do 302 dislike very much to come into a meeting late, but the only way I could get here was to come late today. I wanted to come here to express to this body of splendid women my gratitude for their faith and prayers in supplicating the Lord that my life might be spared. I am very grateful for it. I am very thankful to be here in the enjoyment, I believe, of as good health as I have had for many years. I can remember very distinctly when I was a young man thinking a person 76 years of age would be a very old man, that he would be entitled to sit in a rocking chair, and perhaps be fanned, but 1 am grateful for the vitality of body and mind that I possess today. | can remember very distinctly that as a young man I had very poor health, from the time I was an infant until I was 47 years of age, and went to Europe, where I got a new lease on life. I thought that if I could live to 50 I would be perfectly satisfied, as that was 25% longer than my father lived. Now I am 76 years old, and am anxious to go on living. I wanted to come here and say to you good sisters, that inasmuch as it is my lot and privilege to bless you, I do so. I pray that God's choicest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blessing, the inspiration that comes from Him, may be your guide and companion, that your example may be such that your children will live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because that is of more value than anything else in all the world. Speaking of that young couple who went East to become great in certain lines, reminds me of a teacher coming to me in Liverpool, where one of my daughters was taking vocal lessons, and saying: "It is a shame, although I have the credit of being the best teacher in Liverpool, for you to keep your girl here with me. Send her to Paris—send her to Berlin. She has the finest quality of voice of any singer I have ever heard. She can make herself famous." I said: "My dear friend, I never expect her to make a single dollar with her voice. I would sooner have her sing lullabies to her own children than to make millions and become the greatest singer in the world." Why? Because in rearing children to God through her example, she was giving them a chance to get in that straight and narrow path that would lead them to life eternal. May God bless you all, is my humble prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. "THE question is being raised by the opponents of prohibition, Does a mild, low-percentage beer give us the way out of our difficulties by supplying a refreshing drink which is not intoxicating? The answer is squarely, No. Anyone who knows anything about the habits of men has seen many get drunk on beer that contains three or four percent of alcohol. The reason for this is simply that a considerable proportion of men drink beer, not because they are thirsty or because they like the taste particularly, but because they want to produce a certain sensation of exhilaration and forgetfulness. This being so, they will go on drinking beer until they attain the desired result. It may take a little more time, but lands a man in the same place as that which he would reach a little quicker by the whiskey route."—Dr. Richard C. Cabot.
Relief Society Annual Report, 1932 - Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT
Cash Receipts Balance on Hand January 1, 1932: Charity Fund......................$ 37,647.07 General Fund...................... 105,500.00 Wheat Trust Fund................. 9,226.51
Total Balance January 1, 1932.... $152,373.58
Donations Received During 1932: Charity Fund......................$102,692.37 General Fund...................... 75,367.61 Annual Dues....................... 21,280.14 Other Receipts.................... 34,179.45
Total Receipts................. $233,519.57
Total Balance on Hand and Receipts $385,893.15
Cash Disbursements Paid for Charitable Purposes........$111,343.23 Paid for General Purposes.......... 86,710.61 Annual Dues Paid to General Board and to Stake Boards............ 25,914.84 Paid for Other Purposes............ 29,654.50
Total Disbursements............ $253,623.18
Balance on Hand December 31, 1932: Charity Fund......................$ 34,534.27 General Fund...................... 88,483.71 Wheat Trust Fund................. 9,251.99
Total Balance, December 31, 1932. $132,269.97
Total Disbursements and Balance on Hand....................... $385,893.15
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Assets Balance on Hand December 31, 1932: All Funds........................$131,723.01 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office........... 401,188.27 Other Invested Funds............... 47,612.59 Value of Real Estate and Buildings... 202,119.84 Value of Furniture and Fixtures..... 84,558.37 Other Assets...................... 26,529.04 $893,731.12
Stake Board Cash Balances on hand December 31, 1932..................... 28,731.06 Other Assets...................... 60,997.93 $ 89,728.99
Total Assets..................... $ 983,460.11
 
Liabilities Indebtedness..................... $ 883.00 Balance Net Assets................ 892,848.12 $893,731.12
Balance Stake Board Net Assets..... 89,728.99
Total Net Assets and Liabilities..... $ 983,460.11
STATISTICS
Membership: January 1, 1932: Executive and Special Officers....... 11,047 Visiting Teachers.................. 23,003 Other Members..................... 32,834
Total Membership January 1, 1932 66,884
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 7,983
Total Membership and Increase.. 74,867
Decrease: Removed or Resigned............... 6,620 Died............................. 865
Total Decrease................... 7,485
Membership December 31, 1932: Executive and Special Officers...... 11,107 Visiting Teachers................. 23,322 Other Members.................... 32,953
Total Membership December 31, 1932 67,382
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members................................. 23 Stake Officers and Board Members................................... 1,138 Mission Presidents and Officers..................................... 80
Number of Stakes................................................... 104 Number of Missions................................................ 28 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations.............. 1,567 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts............................. 12,676 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards.............................. 122,824 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken.......................... 20,012 Number of Executive Officers taking Relief Society Magazine........ 5,694 Number of Meetings held in Wards.................................. 69,082 Number of Stake Meetings Held..................................... 2,150 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held.......... 1,162 Number of Ward Conferences Held.................................... 1,277 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings............................... 28,790 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers.............................. 881,436 Number of Families Helped......................................... 22,207 Number of Days Spent with the Sick................................ 42,313 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound................ 214,637 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial.............................. 2,003 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers....................... 5,519
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORT 305
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
  1930  1931  1932
Paid for Charitable Purposes... $109,493.19 $116,448.17 $111,343.23 Total or Present Membership.... 64,225 66,884 67,382 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,568 1,585 1,567 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 26,639 24,956 20,012 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick 43,672 44,495 42,313 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 186,436 204,460 214,637 No. Of Families Helped............. 14,676 17,672 22,207 No. Of Visits by Stake Relief Society Officers to Wards 5,678 5,656 5,519 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 763,918 836,778 881,436
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY
  Total Membership in Stakes...54,716  Missions
Arizona................ 1,312 1,728 California............. 1,131 Australia.............. 107 Canada................ 129 Canada................. 129 Colorado.............. 1,890 Mexico................. 173 Europe................ 4,574 New Zealand............ 512 Hawaii................ 1,078 Samoa.................. 308 United States......... 36,117 South Africa........... 169 9,373 Tahiti................. 336 2,008 Tonga.................. 130 197 223 Total Membership in Missions. 12,666 36
Total Membership in Stakes and Missions..................67,382
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)