Reminiscences of a Pioneer From the Life of Juliette Stowell Perry, a Veteran of the Relief Society By Alice Morrill On November 29 last, Sister Juliette Stowell Perry was ninety-four years old. A member today of the Relief Society of Maeser Ward in Ashley Valley, she was counselor to the president of the first Relief Society in Naples Ward of this Valley. On account of a fractured hip, caused by falling upon the doorstep of her home nearly three years ago, Sister Perry is now bedfast. SINCE she has had to give up homemaking, she has lived with her daughter, Sister Etta Caldwell, of Maeser. This dear old lady never complains, and is very grateful for the kindly ministrations of her daughter's family. Faith and patience halo her presence, and she has an encouraging smile and word of cheer for all who visit her. Ciety, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and recited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob. Tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of. Ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the lookout for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following: On one occasion the Relief Society, Society, held their regular meeting with Sister Perry. She gave a reminiscent talk and re- cited for the visitors a beautiful poem, which she has retained in memory.* Asked where she ob tained copies of poems during her life of exodus and travel, Sister Perry answered: "They came to me in various ways. I remember clipping one from an old Illinois newspaper that I found wrapped around some belongings of ours when we were camped at Council Bluffs. I was always on the look- out for scraps of good literature to memorize." Grandma Perry remembers many of these. When requested, she recites them for her children, grandchildren, or friends. When her visitors inquired about reminiscences, she related the following WHEN Mother and Father joined the Church, they were living upon a farm in Westfield, Chautauqua County, New York. Mother was zealous for her religion and had a strong desire to gather with the Saints. Mother and nine children arrived at Nauvoo just after the Prophet was killed, and just *See poem at end of article. When the 'wolf hunt' was on. The mob," Sister Perry explained, "had determined upon 'Mormon' extirpation and had organized gangs to go through the country adjacent to Nauvoo and annihilate the 'Mormons' who were living on farms and were unprotected. SOON all the brethren and sisters came fleeing into Nauvoo. There were nights and nights when Mother's floor was covered with the beds of the refugees." Of Nauvoo in the days of its glory, Sister Perry said: "When we were in Nauvoo during that first year, it was like a garden. Everything imaginable had been brought and planted. But after that there was trouble enough, and sorrow, in Nauvoo the Beautiful. We stayed in the city until two days before the mob came in and took possession. Many of the Saints were at Mother's house while men went out trying to drive back the raging mob; but it could not be halted. "I saw a man come running?I can remember his words: 'Our boys are beaten. Make good your retreat!' Whenever word came to us of what was happening round about, the Temple bell would ring. Mother tied up our things in pack- 386 ages and kept them ready, so that when the time came that we had to go, we could carry them in our hands. I SHALL never forget that night. For a time it was still as still. Mother stood and listened. We could see the mob passing along the road. Our friends took refuge in a corn field. One man, who had been our neighbor, helped Mother as we moved down to the river bank. We didn't know what would happen next. Some were being ferried across to the other side of the river, but after awhile it got so cold that we were taken across on the ice.
"BROTHER WILLIAM GOULD went out to where his father owned a farm in Knox County, Illinois, and got some teams. Then we were taken there and located upon a piece of land, where we lived for one year, raising one good crop. After that, with the help of friends, we worked our way, little by little, until we got to Council Bluffs, where we stayed four years. When Bishop Edward Hunter came back from 'the Valley' to gather up the poor, scattered Saints, we were still living there, in 'George A's Hollow.'
"We left our homes on the 15th of June and arrived in 'the Valley' on the 2nd of October. Upon arriving at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, I recall my feelings when I first beheld in 'the Valley' the settlement that is now Salt Lake City. The buildings, even then, were very respectable.
"Oh! The people in those days were kind. I recall an incident?one of many?that illustrates their kindness. We had just moved into an unfinished frame house. The roof had not been completed and the first snow-storm sifted through. One morning one of our neighbors, who was working on the Temple, passed by on his way to work. Noticing that no smoke was rising from the chimney, he came to the door and found us still in bed with a coverlet of snow. 'Sister Stowell, this will never do,' he said, 'Go down to my place. Don't stop for getting breakfast. When I come home tonight, I'll see what can be done.' I'll always remember the kindness of Brother Norton Jacobs. We stayed with his family and ate at his table the rest of the winter, Mother helping all she could with the work.
"AFTERWARD, we settled in Provo, and I married William Howard Perry, a young man whom I met in Salt Lake. We moved to Lynn later, and to Cache Valley still later. In 1880 we settled in Ashley Valley. We were there in the early settlement of the Valley, when no Relief Society was even organized. We had a family of ten children?seven girls and three boys."
Sister Perry's memory is good, and she converses intelligently on many subjects. She reads newspapers, all the Church books, and the Church magazines. Since her hip was broken, she has cut and pieced nine sets of quilt blocks, knit lace for six pairs of pillow slips, made two pairs of pillow slips, and sewed fifty pounds of carpet rags. She is happy to think she still can work.
The following is one of her poems:
SILENT AND LONE
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, are my little ones gone?
Once they were playing about at my knee.
In their frolicsome mirth, their boisterous glee,
They would upset the table, misplace the chairs,
Scattering their playthings, all unawares,
Till sometimes I sighed for the good time to come
When they all would be big and would go out from home.
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
No little faces to wash on this night;
No little troubles for Mama to right;
No tender blue eyes to be sung off to sleep,
No tiny playthings to put up to keep;
No little trundle bed brim full of rollick,
Calling for Mama to settle the frolic.
No little clothes to be hung on the rack,
No tales to tell, and no nuts to crack;
No soft little lips to press me with kisses?
Oh, such a sad, lonely evening as this is!
Silent the house with no little ones near
To startle a smile or chase back a tear;
No little voices to shout with delight,
"Good night, dear Mama, good night, good night!"
Silent and lone, silent and lone!
Where, tell me where, have my little ones gone?
They are out where the great rolling trade stream is flowing;
Out where new firesides with love light are glowing;
Out where the graves with their lifehope is sleeping,
Not to be comforted, weeping, still weeping;
Out where the hill-tops of science are blending,
Up mid the cloud rifts, up, up, still ascending!
Seeking the sunshine that rests on the mountain,
Drinking, yet thirsting, for aye at the fountain;
Out in life's thoroughfare, all of them moiling,
Out in the wide world, striving and toiling,
Little ones, loving ones, playful ones, all
That went when I bade, and came at my call,
Have you deserted me? Will you not come
Back to your mother's arms?back to your home?
Useless my cry is. Why do I complain?
Can I call back my little ones? Never again!
Can the great oak to the acorn return??
The broad rolling stream flow back to the bourne?
The mother call childhood again to her knee,
That in manhood went forth, the strong and the free?
Ah, no! Mother, wish not for them back;
Your work nobly done, their tramp on life's track
Will come like an organ's note lofty and clear,
To lift up your soul and your spirit to cheer.
And though your tears fall when you're silent and lone,
You shall know it is best they have scattered and gone."
Silent and lone, silent and lone;?
"Thy will, O Father, not my will be done!"
Mrs. Hilda M. Richards, Malad Stake literary leader, spoke on "What Have the Literary Lessons Done for Your Stake?" at the Literary Department of the April Relief Society conference. It is regretted that the June number of the Magazine, on page 300, reported the address as being given by President Eleanor J. Richards.
Caroline L. Holt
CAROLINE LOUISA EVANS HOLT was born Nov. 13th, 1859, at Spanish Fork, Utah, the daughter of Thomas David and Priscilla Merriman Evans and the third in a family of twelve children. The father heard the Gospel in Wales and joined the Church when sixteen years of age. A year later, or in 1852, he was called to labor as a missionary in Pembrocshire, this mission lasted for six years. While traveling as a servant of God, he met and married the mother of Sister Caroline, April 3rd, 1856, and a few days later they left the land of their birth and set sail for America, arriving in Boston in May. They immediately started westward; arriving in Iowa, they continued their journey of a thousand miles across the trackless plains with the hand cart company. Brother Evans had the misfortune to be run over when a child and lose one leg. Using a wooden peg in place of his leg made it very hard for him to walk. At times he suffered so much he was obliged to ride and his young bride would pull the load. After many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake Oct. 3rd, 1856. They moved to Spanish Fork in a short time, where their first child was born, a baby girl who was called Emma.
THE father was called to fill another mission in far off Wales, and left Spanish Fork May 2, 1875, in company with Brother Thomas C. Martell. He filled an honorable mission of two and one half years, adding many rich experiences to his life. He died Aug. 2nd, 1906, at the age of 73. Sister Caroline's mother was an active worker in the Relief Society and was chosen as Secretary in 1857 and labored in that capacity for many years. When the call first came from President Brigham Young for the Sisters to glean wheat, Sister Evans went into the fields with her little ones, taking Caroline along to tend them, thus helping to save the precious grain to be used many years later when we were engaged in the World War, the First Ward of Spanish Fork selling Uncle Sam over $1,300.00 worth.
SISTER CAROLINE lived with her grandmother for six years but returned home to help her mother while the father was in Wales. Sister Evans died Nov. 5th, 1914. The first school Sister Caroline attended was taught by Bishop Butler's wife in a little adobe house on Main Street. The next teacher was Nancy Woodward who taught in her own home. Silas Hillman, James G. Higgenson, George H. Brimhall and Joseph A. Reese, were also her teachers. She worked as a teacher in Sunday School, teaching a class of young boys in the old meeting house. When the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association was organized Sister Caroline was chosen as Librarian holding that office until the Wards were divided and then was called to work in the same position in the new ward in which she lived. Sister Holt was a gifted alto singer and has sung in the choir ever since she was big enough, being a member of the old choir and singing under the direction of William Jones, William James and Owen Rowe. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated she sang with a choir of three hundred voices at two sessions under the leadership of Prof. Giles. She is still a member of the ward choir where she resides.
At the age of 23 she was married to William Nathaniel Holt, the son of a Mormon Battalion member, being united to him for time and eternity in the old Endowment House by Daniel H. Wells, Nov. 2nd, 1882. To this union were born two children, Dolly Patience, Aug. 1st, 1883, and William David Holt, born Sept. 22nd, 1885. In the year 1894, Sister Holt had the great misfortune to lose her husband and although her health was poor she continued to press on rearing her children in faith in the Gospel and continuing her work in the Church. Her daughter Dolly married William Rigtrup, Dec. 6th, 1903, and became the mother of five children, Caroline, Annie Amelia, Dolly Percilla, Carl William and Alge. Shortly after the birth of Alge the mother died, passing away Jan. 20th, 1915. Though this was a great trial for Sister Holt, her great faith in God gave her strength to stand the ordeal and she was able to say, "The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the name of the Lord." She has been a mother to her daughter's children and they always find a home and loving care with Grandma. Her son William graduated from the B. Y. U. and also filled a two and one-half year mission in the Central States. He married Zella Monk June 20th, 1917, and is the father of four children, Phyllis, Caroline, Zella, who died at the age of five months, Josephine and Donna Emma. William resides in Tooele, being Musical Director in the high school.
SISTER HOLT'S greatest public work has been in the Relief Society; when a girl of 18 years she was set apart as teacher, having Sister Rosetta Robertson as a companion. She labored in that capacity until Spanish Fork was divided into four wards. March 3rd, 1892, the Relief Society Sisters were called together in a meeting in the old Central meetinghouse. Sister Eliza Jex was released as President of Spanish Fork Relief Society and four organizations were perfected with Caroline L. Holt president of the First Ward, Thorgerda B. Snell 1st Counselor, Margaret Davis 2nd Counselor, Eliza Hales Secretary, and Ellen Tilley Treasurer.
MANY changes have taken place among those with whom Sister Caroline has labored, many have gone to the great beyond, but our dear sister is still with us. She filled the position of president of the Relief Society for 37 years, being released when the First Ward was divided April 21, 1929.
SHE was always on hand whenever and wherever her services were needed, no night was ever too dark or cold or stormy for her to answer the call and her work could always wait until her duty was done. She has been as a ministering angel in many homes in the time of sickness and death and with the great faith that is her constant companion she has helped us all in times of sorrow. No record has been kept of the many she has helped lay away in death, a Lamanite Sister being one of the number. None can know of the labor she has accomplished, but when that other book is opened a great work will be recorded there. We who have labored with her and know her worth love her best for her untiring labor and great faith.
Sister Holt was also a member of the old folks committee from the time they first commenced entertaining the old people until the division of the ward, when a new committee was chosen and she was among the honored guests.
At the present time she is active in Genealogical work and it is her greatest desire that as long as she is permitted to live that she may be found among those who are doing the work of the Lord.
Raffling, Games of Chance, Etc.
REPORTS have been received from time to time that, in some instances, at ward fairs and other entertainments, raffling and other chance games have been conducted. The argument used in favor of these contests is that such games are common in the business world and that the purpose for which they are employed is a worthy one. In other words, it is argued that the end justifies the means. In order, however, that the position of the Church may be clear, we are quoting herewith from instructions given by President Joseph F. Smith and by President Heber J. Grant which express the attitude of the Church authorities.
President Smith said, "Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling. For that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young people of the Church.
"PRESIDENT YOUNG declared raffling to be a modified form of gambling and said that 'as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain,' and advised the sisters, through the Woman's Exponent, not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these statements and said: 'I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling.'"
President Grant says, "I have always understood that our people were advised to raise their money for charitable and other purposes without indulging in raffling, where chances are sold. There is no objection to creating competition in various ways in ward entertainments in order to raise money, but the selling of chances on any article has been discouraged."
THE spirit of gambling or taking chances for money is so rampant in the world at present that the moderating influence and example of the Church should be exercised in behalf of our young people toward resisting such temptations. We urge that the spirit of these instructions be followed in all ward entertainments, and that proper advice in the same direction be given all members of the Church.
The Presiding Bishopric.