Jubilee Boxes Voices from the Past By Annie Wells Cannon PRIL, 1930, marked two A unique and unusual ceremonies, incidents of especial interest to the officers and members of the Relief Society. These occasions were the opening of two "jubilee boxes'' that had been arranged, sealed, and put away for safe keeping for a period of nearly fifty years. MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL, General Secretary of the Relief Society in 1880, placed in the care of the Church historian, April 1, 1881, a box containing packages and mementos, pictures, newspapers and other matters of note of that time, not to be opened until a designated day which was April 1, 1930. This box was addressed to the one who might happen to be general secretary at that time in the following words: "Hon. Secretary: This is dedicated to you with the fond hope and firm belief you are enjoying many advantages and blessings that were not enjoyed by your predecessors. "May God abundantly bless you and your labors. Sarah M. Kimball, Sec. Relief Society. "Salt Lake City, April lst, 1881." THE other jubilee box was arranged and deposited by the officers of the Utah Stake Relief Society under the direction of Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot, familiarly called "Ma Smoot," in 1881, to be opened April 6, 1930. Mrs. Kimball had invited many prominent men and women to place a package or envelope in her box, each one to be addressed and delivered to, where possible, the oldest living female descendant of the contributor. The columns of the Exponent of April 15, 1881, contained a short story of the placing of the box, and a poem entitled "Dedication of Sarah M. Kimball's Jubilee Box," by Augusta Joyce Crocheron. These two items constituted all the information to be had on the subject. It was therefore with pleased anticipation that there gathered on the morning of April 1, 1930, in the Genealogical Assembly room of the Church Administration Building a goodly company of Church officials, relatives, and friends or descendants of friends of Mrs. Kimball, to listen to a short program and witness the opening of this "jubilee box." ye G those present were President Heber J. Grant who presided at the exercises, Church Historian Joseph Fielding Smith in whose care the box has been for many years, Assistant Church Historians Andrew Jenson and the late Junius F. Wells, President Louise Y. Robison and members of the General Board of Relief Society, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs, Lula Greene Richards, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and Zina Y. Card, all of these last named, friends and co-workers with Mrs. Kimball. Several of Mrs. Kimball's family were present, her son Frank D. Kimball and his son Leland, her daughter Elizabeth JUBILEE BOXES Kimball, her oldest grandson Hiram Kimball of Butte, Montana, two granddaughters, Mrs. May Forrester and Miss Florence Kimball, Thomas Seeney, a great-grandson, of Ogden, and his wife and two children representing the third generation, and a granddaughter-in-law, Mrs. Dora Kimball, wife of Roy Kimball. PER briefly stating the purposes of the gathering, President Grant introduced President Louise Y. Robison, who gave a brief sketch of Mrs. Kimball's life and paid a beautiful tribute to her memory. Hon. Franklin S. Richards and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon both spoke in a reminiscent manner of Mrs. Kimball and her friends and associates in the Relief Society and suffrage work, after which President Grant made the following remarks: President Heber J. Grant I AM not on the program to make any remarks, but in view of what Sister Cannon has said I would like to say that when I was a very small child, being my mother's only child, on more than one occasion, Mother took me to the meetings to which Sister Cannon has referred. I wish to bear my witness here today that at one of those meetings, which was held in the home of Priscilla Staines, and at which Grandma Whitney, as we affectionately called her, Aunt Eliza R. Snow, Zina D, Young, Sister Kimball and my mother were present, Sister Eliza R. Snow just before the meeting closed, talked to me by the gift of tongues. (I was a child playing on the floor, not comprehending what these sisters. Were saying or what they were doing), and Sister Zina D. Young gave the interpretation. 367 MY mother often said to me when I became a young man that if I would behave myself some day I would be one of the apostles. I always laughed at her and told her to get it out of her head, that I had no ambitions in that direction what- | ever, that we had lived in poverty and I proposed to devote my efforts to making some money. She said, "Never mind, if you behave yourself you will some day be an apostle." When I was chosen a member of the Council of the Twelve she asked me if I remembered this meeting in Sister Priscilla Staines' home. I told her, "Yes." "Do you remember anything that was said to you?" I said, "Only one thing, and that is that as Aunt Zina D. Young talked to me as I was playing on the floor she lifted her hand and said that I should become a great big man." (And later, as I had grown rather tall, I often thought of that promise made to me as a little child.). OTHER said, "She did not say any such a thing; she lifted her hand, interpreting a blessing given to you by the gift of tongues, and said that you should become a great big man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and become one of the Twelve Apostles of the Church. That is why I have told you that if you behaved yourself some day you would be an apostle. All blessings are predicated upon obedience. On this occasion Aunt Eliza, by the gift of tongues, blessed each and all of the ward presidents who were present, and Aunt Zina gave the interpretation, and knowing that the promises made to the various sisters had been fulfilled I knew that if you 368 behaved yourself you would some day become one of the apostles." HE then asked me if I also remembered being in the home of Heber C. Kimball and of him picking me up and putting me on a table and prophesying about me. I said, "I do not remember his prophesying; all I remember is that he put me on the table and talked to me, and that he had the blackest eyes I ever saw, and that I was frightened." She said, "He prophesied that you should live to become one of the apostles and become a greater man in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints than your father was." The presentation of the box to Sister Lund will now be made by the Church Historian, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. Yet before presenting the box, Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine was introduced and read the following poem, which was written by Auae Joyce Crocheron, March 30, 1881: Dedication Of Sister Sarah M. Kimball's Jubilee Box Could I the curtain tear away That hides the future from today, And look upon the reader's face, Bent o'er the lines hereon I trace, How strange, perhaps, the group would be, ? Who've come this treasure box to see. And very few of us, I fear, Who've placed these little tokens here, Will meet with you upon that day; Dear friends?we may be far away. Should some be there, 'twill not be strange RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If they have grown so very changed That you will wonder?is it true? And was this portrait really you? For fifty years will steal away The face that now we wear today. But if we do come, never mind?
A seat with the "old folks" we'll find.
If we somewhat "old styled" appear,
In the advanced mental atmosphere,
Ah, let no slighting thought be cast,
Think of the scenes through which we've passed.
Believers, when Truth's golden page
Proclaimed unto a darkened age
God's mandate, to observe his laws,
And give our lives unto his cause;
Through fifty years we've wrought, and still
Give our glad service to his will.
This simile should be enough?
Foundation stones are sometimes rough.
Zion! May thy next Jubilee
Thy Kingdom's power acknowledged see!
May thy fair Temples have a place
In every clime, in every race.
May olden deserts know again
Bright flowing streams and homes of men.
May the oppressed find sweet release,
And warfare end in lasting peace.
To our successors, we bestow
These little tokens, may you grow
Faithful and fearless in the right,
The Gospel be your guide and light.
May you accomplish all that we
Now in our holy calling see.
And may we too be with you there,
Zion's next Jubilee to share.
PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH then presented the box, saying: "This is the box! When it was deposited in the Historian's Office, Orson Pratt was the historian, and this box has been safely guarded from that day until now. I would like to tell you that Sister Lund and I have already had a little interview with this box. We have not opened it. One brother said he thought that we ought to get some dynamite for Sister Lund. I did not have time to do that, but I think Sister Lund reached the conclusion that we almost needed it. It is my pleasure and duty now to present this box to Sister Lund, the Secretary of the Relief Society, and my responsibility is at an end."
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund accepted the box with the following words:
"I THINK that you will appreciate that I am fully sensible of the responsibility and the great honor that has come to me in this calling, to be counted worthy to be the successor of Sarah M. Kimball.
"There has been much said, and so well said, that it is not my purpose to add a word except to say that I could conceive of no higher mission in life than to be worthy to follow in the footsteps of my great predecessors in office, and to honor, as far as I am capable, the great work they have done, by doing my best in the office of General Secretary of the great Relief Society organization.
"It now becomes my very pleasant duty to open this jubilee box, and to distribute to those who have a right to claim them, the contents."
PRESIDENT GRANT then proceeded to distribute the small packages and was more than pleased to find one from his mother, Sister Rachel Grant, her own picture with a message on the back. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Mrs. Zina Y. Card were present to receive their own deposits. Another contributor who is still living but unable to be there on account of illness was Dr. Romania B. Penrose. Dr. Penrose was assistant secretary to Mrs. Kimball in the Relief Society. There were in all sixty-four depositors, besides pamphlets, newspapers, and clippings.
NATURALLY, interest centered around Mrs. Kimball's package addressed in her own fine writing, "To the Honorable Secretary of the Relief Society, April 1st, A. D. 1930." This envelope contained the picture of Mrs. Kimball, here reproduced, a small photograph of Eliza R. Snow, a clipping from the Woman's Exponent giving the proceedings of the meeting in the Fourteenth Ward, July 17, 1880, when President John Taylor gave very definite and important instructions to the Relief Society and set apart for their particular office President Eliza R. Snow, Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Secretary Sarah M. Kimball. The following interesting letter which explains the whole story of this "jubilee box" was also enclosed:
Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1st, 1881.
"To the President of the Relief Society and the Relief Society Secretary:
"Dear Sisters:
"I HAVE felt impressed to gather the contents of this Box and direct to you for distribution. It has been with me a labor of love. The thought first came to me Apr. 6th, 1880, when the Church Jubilee gathered many old reminiscences and made them interesting. The opening of this Box is expected to be Apr. 1st, 1930, the Grand Jubilee year of the Church. It has been my endeavor to preserve items of historical interest and I have had satisfaction in my labors. I hope those who distribute will feel happified and blessed in the faithful discharge of this trust which comes to them all unsought.
"Many of the items herein inclosed have been instructive to me and much good feeling has been expressed by the depositors. We hope it will please you to send down genealogical and historical items with blessings to the next generation and that the practice will continue through all generations of time.
"We expect your advantages will in all respects be far superior to what we have enjoyed. Our greatest hope is centered in what will be accomplished by our successors.
"I HAVE this day taken to Pres. Taylor's Office the first general report of the stakes of Zion for the approaching conference. God has blessed me and I feel that I will be able to leave more waymarks in official channels than it has been my privilege to find. We are as a Church a growing people and Relief Society labors are becoming more and more understood and appreciated. I send you the design of the first General Society Banner.
"God bless and help you is the prayer of her who writes this.
Sarah M. Kimball.
Request
"We send this link from Eighteen Eighty
To join Time's chain in Nineteen Thirty.
Will our successor, whoe're she may be
Link this with Nineteen Eighty.
S. M. Kimball."
Utah Stake Jubilee Box
The box put away by "Ma Smoot" and her associates was opened April 29, at a meeting of the Utah Stake Relief Society held in Provo, by the president, Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman, and its contents were distributed by Mrs. Paxman and her assistants to the descendants of the contributors. This box contained many interesting items of history, among them an envelope from Milton H. Hardy, principal of the University of Deseret and superintendent of Utah county schools, containing the third annual catalog of the University and rare pamphlets. One package contained samples of cake and candy which were served at "Ma Smoot's" 73rd birthday party. There were poems by O. F. Whitney and a number of pamphlets and histories by Karl G. Maeser. There were 171 packages and letters distributed and Mrs. Paxman has still others to send when she locates the persons entitled to them. The following letter was in the Utah Stake box, a beautiful message to all who read:
"Provo City, March 25, 1881.
"To my children and my grandchildren who may be living when the box which contains this letter shall be opened and the fingers that penned these lines gone back to mother earth:
"I conjure you, my dear children, to be faithful in all your covenants that you make in the Church. Pay all your tithes and offerings with an eye single to the glory of God and be faithful to the end of your days. It is the great love I bear you that causes me to pen you these few lines, the last you will have from me on this earth. It is the voice of your mother and grandmother speaking to you from the grave, calling upon you to live near your God and do all that you can that is left undone for our dead.
"MY father, Isaac Higbee, and my mother whose maiden name was Keziah String, and my grandfather, Isaac Higbee and my grandmother, Sophia Summers Higbee and two uncles, Elias and John S. Higbee, with their families, joined the Church in the early days and went up to Jackson County, Missouri, from where they were driven by the enemies from that county to Clay County, in the same state. There my father left his family and went to Kirtland, Ohio, to work on the Temple. When he returned we moved to Caldwell County, Missouri, where we remained two years and were again driven away by enemies out of the state altogether. This time we went to Illinois where we remained some years and in this state the Prophets were killed. Here we built a Temple. We built ourselves up in many things. Many had good houses and farms and built a city and gave it the name of Nauvoo. It was beautifully situated, lying in the bend of the Mississippi River. But again our enemies were upon us. We were driven out again and found a home in these valleys of the mountains. How long we will be permitted to stop here unmolested is for the future to decide. If we do not live our religion God will scourge us until we do.
"I WAS born in the State of Ohio, Clearmont County, Palestine, in the year 1826, May 20th, and was married to your father and grandfather in the year 1845, December 23rd, and who departed this life in the year 1879, he being one of the First Presidents of Seventies, and in the full faith of the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"I COULD mention many things if I thought it necessary in regard to our persecutions and suffering. The first night's sorrow I ever felt was the first night after we were driven out of Jackson County. We camped at the foot of a high bluff and in the night a terrible storm arose and rain came down in torrents and in the dead of night we had to climb the bluff to keep from being swept away by the swelling flood. We took shelter in a cave formed by projecting rocks after driving the wild hogs out. My dear mother had to be carried up, being too ill to help herself, and there sat in her chair, not being able to lie down. Morning came at last as it always does and with the light we resumed our journey and this day crossed the Missouri River and immediately pitched our tent when in a few moments after my mother gave birth to a son, and that night the stars fell from the heaven and our enemies thought the day of judgment had come.
"My father was ordained to the Bishopric under the hands of the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo. My present home is in Provo City Fourth Ward. J. E. Booth is our bishop of the ward; Abraham Smoot, president of the stake.
"WHEN we came to these valleys with ox teams thirty-three years ago, we crossed over one thousand miles of uninhabited wilderness, save by savages and wild beasts of the desert, but when we came in sight of the beautiful valley of Salt Lake, I wept like a child, and what for?for very joy. It seemed so heavenly and beautiful to me; it seemed as though I stood on holy ground. I was filled with joy unspeakable and full of reverence to my Creator for giving me such a beautiful home.
"MY father was made president of Utah County Stake of Zion in 1849, and in the fall of 1850 his only living son, my brother Joseph, was killed by the Indians, who made war with our people and were afterwards whipped and driven into the mountains. (His was the first grave in Provo City.)
"MY mother's parents, Thomas and Hannah String (Albison being her maiden name) were not in the Church, nor any of their children except my mother and her sister Margaret. The names of their other children were Ann Conover (her husband's name was Robert Conover), and Hannah James, the wife of George James, and Rebecca, the wife of Ephraim James, also Sarah String, Martha String and James String.
"MY father and husband each left a journal and small genealogy which I hope will be taken care of and which is now in the desk of my late husband where I hope it may be found at any future time it may be wanted. I also have some of my father's journals which may be interesting and also my husband's, John McEwan, all of which I hope will be taken care of.
"And now, my beloved children and children's children, down to the latest generation: Be true to yourself and to your religion and to your God, for there is no exaltation outside of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
"I might write much more but we are told to be as brief as possible that there may be room in the box for all.
"IF any of my dear children are living when this comes to hand, I hope they will think much of what I have written about, for it is with pure motive. Now do all you can for yourselves, my darlings, and for the building up of the kingdom of God on the earth, and may God bless you all, is the prayer of your loving Mother and Grandmother,
Amanda M. McEwan.
To her loving children and grandchildren to the latest generation:
"The names of my great grandparents on my mother's side are Josiah Albison and Hannah, his wife, Father's I do not know."
NAMES listed on envelope containing the letter: "Children?Mary Jane Wilkins, William McEwan, Amanda M. Knight, John H. McEwan, Isaac H. McEwan, Rosilla J. Haws, Eleanor McEwan, Grandchildren?Ellen Wilkins, Oscar Wilkins, Jr., Minerva Wilkins, Mary A. Wilkins, Zina Wilkins, Lydia Minerva Knight, Raymond Knight, William Knight, A. Inez Knight, William McEwan Haws; Jubilee Box, Care Margaret T. Smoot, Stake Relief Society President, Provo, Utah."
SUCH occasions bring to mind many memories of the past and create questioning thoughts for the future. The gifts, letters, pictures of fifty years ago may seem out of date today and so will our treasure boxes when opened fifty years hence seem queer and obsolete to the generation of that period, 1980. Who of us, who today gaze reverently on the pictured faces of the past and read the precious lines written by dear hands, will be among those or represented among those who will receive a message in the days to come, I wonder.
[ADVERTISEMENT]
Summertime Modernization Time
Have your home made modern now before the late summer and fall rush starts. The cost of Natural Gas Modernization is surprisingly low?and twenty-four months to pay for the equipment if you wish. Enjoy complete Natural Gas service for automatic cooking, water heating, refrigeration, incineration and house heating.
CALL IN FOR A FREE ESTIMATE
The more Natural Gas you use the less you pay per cubic foot.
UTAH GAS & COKE CO.
Serving Salt Lake City
OGDEN GAS COMPANY
Serving Ogden
LAYTON
FARMINGTON
BOUNTIFUL
CENTERVILLE
MAGNA
WASATCH GAS CO.