Uncle Jay arose, went to his desk and there found a letter a little faded with age. He handed it to Beth and then went to his favorite window to wait her reading it. The letter read as follows: Dear John: "Six years is'a long time to wait for you to show some signs of thinking of others besides yourself. We have been so lonely and you have been so occupied with your ambitions that you did not have time to think of us at all. Little Jane and I need understanding, and you seem to need only business. The biggest -leaving. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE business of life is to understand those you love and help them to be useful in their different ways. But your wife and child mean so little to you that we are I want Jane to grow up as Jane, not as a mere cog in some business. Don't try to find us for we will be far away. Why not try to understand others and not spend so much of your time in your own garden? "Mary." Bett thought for twelve years he has been helping others to understand and be understood, but he had never told his story to anyone except her. He had resigned his position to spend his time and money in the great task, of helping others. He was Uncle Jay to many. Had he found understanding himself? Beth wondered. She handed back the letter. "Thanks, Uncle Jay. May I use your story in mine? I am sure I will tell it well and you shall see it published. Oh Uncle Jay! I am so happy you told me your story. And you were John! But where is Mary?" "I don't know. I waited and hunted but couldn't find her.. I was angry and stubborn, and my pride was hurt. What would the town say? After a short time the truth seemed to dawn upon me. Then I made my decision." "And oh! How successful you have been," Beth replied. "You are loved by all. Uncle Jay, I shall be so much happier with I now because of you.' ter Beth left Uncle Jay sat a long time. He seemed to be reaching out with his thoughts. "T didn't understand," he said to himself, "but now I could and would. But it is too late for me I fear." He settled deeper into his chair and gazed out through his favorite window. This window faced the ee UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING a) east and he had spent many hours there in the evenings looking and wondering and waiting. Tonight was peaceful; the folors on the mountains were shot through with bits of light from the dying sun. Rousing himself he went to bed; but twice softly called a name twice ere he dropped off to sleep. AN you really like it, Uncle Jay?" Beth was so happy this morning as they finished her story. "Did I tell it so all will understand? I so hope that as mother reads it she will see as we see. Do you think she will?" Beth was beautiful in her wistfulness. She had put so much of her own aches and desires and soul into the story she had written that Uncle Jay caught the cry of her heart which enhanced the cry of Mary's, as heard by a girl who understood. "Yes, Beth, you have told it better than I could or did. Hundreds, helping them to understand. It may reach someone who will know." The door bell rang. They both jumped. Beth flushed. She went to the door and opened it. A young man of twenty came in, caught her in his arms and kissed her. They turned to Uncle Jay, who had stood during this greeting. "Uncle Jay, here is Jack. We are going to get married to-day and we are going on our honeymoon tonight. We wanted to see you before we went, for we knew you would understand. Don't tell mother; she wouldn't understand. Daddy will need to know and we wish you would tell him. "You remember Jack, don't you? He is the boy I have played with in school. I love him so much, Uncle Tt will reach ° Jay, he has read your story. He is just the nicest boy there is in the whole world. Don't you think he will always understand?" Beth was so happy and excited that she didn't see on the face of Uncle Jay the smile of gladness; for he knew Jack would appreciate Beth. HEY walked to the door—two young people just in the commencement of life, loving each other: and an old man, kindly and mellow with life's sadness and sorrows and success. He had listened to many for nearly twelve full years. At the door Beth put both arms around his neck and kissed him and cried. Jack squeezed his hand, and they both went down the steps, happy—yet a bit sad. T° the young, a month passes quickly; to the old, time drags, especially when they are waiting. One day, at the end of a month, Uncle Jay was interrupted by the ringing of the door bell. On opening the door he saw Beth's mother. In her hand was a magazine, and there were tears in her eyes. "May I come in, Uncle Jay?" she asked. "T want to talk to you." "Come right in Mrs. Jensen," and he led her to a chair near the window. 'She sat down, waiting a minute before she began. "T didn't know you had such a story. It has opened my eyes. When I was here before, the day Beth got married, I was bitter and my pride was hurt. I didn't understand, but now I am beginning to see. Do you think I can begin to make up for the things lost? "Mr. Jensen was smiling when I told him I was coming here to talk to you. I never knew him before so well. He knew Beth was gone, and 556 I found several cards from her to him. I see why she didn't send a card to me. I didn't and wouldn't understand. Help me to get back my Beth and her husband. I want them in my heart and understanding." ie JAY was smiling his old smile. "My flowers grow best when I place them where they can develop with others.. If I interfere too much, they do not grow the best. And with children and grown-ups, we should present situations that will permit them to grow and develop their own natures under sympathetic and careful guidance. If I were you, I would get beautiful announcements iof Beth's marriage, and have a welcome-home dinner." "Oh, could I! Do you think she would love me? If she would, I—." Mrs. Jensen went home. Uncle Jay smiled happily as he snuggled into his chair for his afternoon view from his window. M®*: JENSEN came early one morning 'some two weeks after her last visit. She was happy and there was something about her that was new to Uncle Jay. She walked into the house, and _ said, "Uncle Jay, Beth and Jack will be home tomorrow, and I want you to be with us. Will you come?" "Yes, I will come to see you and the young people." Beautiful indeed was his view that afternoon and the next morning from his window. When the world is happy and we help others to understand, then flowers and color and trees and birds mean so much to our souls. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Uncle Jay was happy as he walked over to the home of the Jensen's. He stepped on the porch, and then someone had him by both hands. "Oh, you old darling. Iam so glad you came to my dinner. Mother has told me all, and I have told her all. We are going to understand each other better. Daddy is all smiles, and Jack is happy—all because of you." Beth kissed the cheek of Uncle Jay, taking his arm to enter the house. HE dinner was delightful. Mother and Daddy, Beth and Jack, told stories and jokes: after dinner they sang songs. As Uncle Jay arose to go home, Beth said, "Uncle Jay, there is a recompense for every act of our lives. You will receive your happiness and rewards. I just know you will." Slowly he walked home. "Rewards," he thought. Entering his home, he found his seat near the window: the evening picture was peaceful, filled with remembrances. The door bell rang. He went to answer. "A telegram, Uncle Jay," said the boy. He signed and went back to his chair. He waited a minute, for he never received many telegrams. He opened it. He turned pale, and then the paper slipped from his hands. It read: John: I have read your story. I am also beginning to understand. Jane is well and wishes to see her daddy. May we come home to you. Then I can help you to help others understand. "Mary." Uncle Jay sat thoughtful for a few minutes. He reached' for the telephone, and a note of joy was in his voice as he said, "Long distance, please." Notes from the Field HE Sacred Grove was the setting for the first general conference of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies ever held. Saturday morning, July 26, 1930, about five hundred people assembled in the beautiful spot so sacred in Church history, and a greater understanding and appreciation of the wonderful work the Relief Society has done, and is doing, was instilled into the hearts of those who enjoyed the splendid program, composed of short addresses, musical numbers, and a pageant. Addresses were given by Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies; Sister Marian Agren, counselor and secretary of the Mission Relief Societies; -Dr. Fred G. Taylor, president of the New York branch, and President James H. Moyle, of the Eastern States Mission... Music was furnished by Sister Margaret Romain Browning, the Pittsburg Relief Society harmonica band, and Elder Merrill B. Tew. A special feature of the program was a pageant entitled "Eternal Womanhood," portraying the admirable qualities which characterize every true Relief Society woman. It was very beautifully presented by representatives from the thirteen Relief Societies of the Eastern States: Rochester, Syracuse, Hartford, Boston, Buffalo, New York, Newark, Erie, Washington, Philadelphia, Pittsburg, Salem-Lynn and Binghampton. Of the 392 women enrolled in the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies, 127 were present at the roll call of this memorable meeting, others came after the count was taken. All of the 23 Societies in the Mission were represented with the exception of one. This was a splendid representation, and the effort put forth by the women to come so long a distance was greatly appreciated. Some of the SCENE FROM THE PAGEANT GIVEN AT THE FIRST GENERAL CONFERENCE OF THE Co Saees MISSION RELIEF IETIES.  sisters traveled over 400 miles to be in attendance. The secretary writes: ""We are happy to have present 9 Relief Society members from the East Central States and Canadian Mission, and several members from Societies in the stakes of Zion. The spirit and inspiration which permeates the Sacred Grove was manifest in rich abundance, and all expressed themselves as_ thankful for the privilege of being there. It is hoped that the inspiration and spirit received at this time will be carried into every Society of the mission, and will inspire all the members to renewed diligence and faithfulness in performing their mission, which is the uplifting of conditions among mankind; of bringing truth and light to the world; of urging men to serve God in righteousness." Immediately following the meeting, the Relief Society members were the guests of the Eastern States Relief Society President, Mrs. Alice D. Moyle, assisted by Marian Agren. A delicious box luncheon was served in the Grove. East Central States Mission: | HE President of the East Central States Mission Relief Societies writes of the progress of the Relief Society in that mission, A visit to North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia and Tennessee shows the development of the organization and is evidence of the fact that the Relief Societies are doing a wonderful work. The District Presidents say they are the backbone of a very wonderful organization, and wherever the Relief Society is active, the Church is assured of a good branch. Everywhere the sisters are trying to encourage others to bring friends with them and join _in the wonderful lesson work, and this is the means of making many friends in the mission field. One organization had a wonderful record, and there are interesting reports from many others. It is very evident that the Lord is blessing these sisters for their diligence and faithfulness in the cause of truth. The Relief Society work teaches one to appreciate more each day what a joy it is to be able to help one's fellowmen. The feeling is expresed by many of the sisters that they wish they could devote more time to the work, for it is all in the cause of truth and is a blessing in every way. The experiences received through this service in the Relief Society work, the feeling of responsibility which comes with this, and the whole spirit of the work, is evidence of its power for good and the light and inspiration it is to the sisters who are fortunate enough to enjoy it. ROM far off Tahiti comes the following interesting letter from the president of the Relief Society, Sister Marguerite S. Burbidge. "In Takaroa I had the pleasure of at tending the April Conference and a very fine session was held, There were three branches represented, sisters coming from two other islands. They came over 80 miles in a small 10-ton gasoline boat, and in order for them to get back to their homes they were compelled to travel that distance in a little 5-ton sailing boat, but they arrived here in safety. I thought perhaps you would like to see a picture of the Relief Society at Takaroa, so I am sending you a snapshot. "We who are blessed by living ina country such as the good old U. S. A., do not appreciate the many blessings we receive. These poor people in Tahiti, certainly do work under a handicap. They have no one to in- —_—— NOTES FROM THE FIELD 559 RELIEF SOCIETY OF TAKAROA struct them in the Relief Society work, except the Elders, and all the -wonderful material that is contained in the Magazine is simplified for use here. The sisters have no way of gaining new knowledge, as there are no schools, and no books are published in their language except the Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants. Of course these are very wonderful books, and the sisters get a great deal from them, in fact they are the only ones that can be used in the lessons, but all the wonderful lessons on home, health, social problems, and literature, that can be given to more fortunately circumstanced people, it is impossible to get over here. Then too, the living conditions of the people in this land make it very difficult. The people own the land around the lagoon, which covers a territory about 12 miles long and 4 miles wide, and every two months they go to different portions of their _land to make the copra, and this takes them about one month out of every two away from their city. However, they try to hold their regular meeting inland, but of course all of the sisters cannot get there as their land is sometimes several miles away from the little church house made of cocoanut boughs, and the only means of travel is by sail canoes. I attended one of their meetings while they were inland, which is almost a wilderness, a barren coral reef with cocoanut trees growing all over. The natives made little houses out of cocoanut boughs, and they live just like campers while inland. They had a very fine meeting, but all the sisters were not there. They hold their meetings regularly and try, in their way. To do-all they can to make a success of the work, — "T am very anxious to be able to do all I can to help the sisters here in Papeete, by giving them some of the wonderful lessons contained in the Magazme. I am in hopes that we shall be able to put on a pageant for next conference that will create a new interest in Relief Society work." 560 Northwestern States Mission: HE Relief Societies of the Western Division of the Northwestern States Mission held a convention in Portland on June 11, 1930. This section of the mission felt truly happy in having President Louise Y. Robison in attendance. Three sessions were held with representatives from 17 different Societies, all traveling some distance, two of whom traveled over 300 miles to be in attendance at the convention. The Executive Officers'. Session was held in the beautiful Relief Society room, and reports were given by each president. These reports were based on a questionnaire which had previously been mailed to the presidents. The reports were very excellent, and every Society reported the hope that decided improvement in all branches of the work would be in evidence; that Relief Society ideals, visiting teachers' acRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tivities, and all other things pertaining to the work would increase in efficiency and swell the membership. At the close of this session all Executive Officers, as guests of the Portland Relief Societies, were taken to the banquet hall, where a luncheon was served by special officers of the Portland Societies. These 52 guests were seated around artistically decorated tables, forming a square, with a "Portland Rose" for each guest. The afternoon and evening sessions were well attended and inspiring talks were given by President Robison and Mission President William R. Sloan and Relief Society Mission President Pearl C. Sloan. Appropriate hymns and musical numbers were also a pleasing part of the conference. In keeping with the saying of Frances Willard: "The mission of the ideal woman is to make the whole world home-like," the Relief NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION GROUP NOTES FROM THE FIELD Society room and the chapel were beautifully decorated with flowers, and a spirit of love and sociability prevailed. New Z, ealand Mission: mre JENNIE A. MAGLEBY, president of the New Zealand Mission writes: ""The successful meetings held at the annual conference, March 14-17 inclusive, at Tahoraite were all most inspirational. Everyone who was in attendance expressed gratitude for the spiritual food, and for the improvement they felt would result to themselves and the organization. "Several instructive meetings were held. The testimony meeting had a wonderful effect; it inspired all to do their utmost to serve their fellow-men by means of the Relief Society organization. In the general meeting a new slogan was introduced and accepted: 'We cultivte the beautiful." The program given on Saturday evening was a great credit to the Relief Society sisters; the theme of the evening was Prayer. The songs and speeches were appropriate, and the pageant "Divine Guidance" created a sacred atmosphere. One expression made by a European and an old member of the Relief Society was typical of the effect, 'The pageant alone was worth my 550 miles travel to attend this conference.' Very few had tearless eyes during the rendering of the beautiful program. The sewing exhibition was excellent. It consisted of floor mats, pillow cases, quilts, baskets, kits, overalls, shirts, carpet slippers, and children's clothing. Money collected and turned in to the general Relief Society for the 561 sale of these goods amounted to approximately $35.00. Many other articles were sold and the remuneration was placed in the branch treasuries. More hospitable and efficient managers than the Tamaki Relief Society sisters would be difficult to find. During the Hui their homes were open to the Elders from Zion, the sisters, and all the European saints of New Zealand. The people moved into private marquees on the grounds to accommodate their guests. The table service was miraculous. The native sisters served the number of two thousand people delicious meals for five days, three meals a day, except Sunday. The bell was rung, people were served within an hour, and all the waiters and cooks were able to be in their respective meetings on time. No one person seemed burdened with the load, everyone did her part well and in a good spirit. The Tamaki branch has a membership of 22 women, and with these and the aid of their husbands and children, the crowd was handled without a break in the routine. The tables seated 400 at a sitting, necessitating many re-servings. Such systematic service and food so tasty, economical and wholesome could not be surpassed. They did their work and attended meetings too. It was really a marvel. Altogether the spirit and the service rendered by these marvelous native sisters is beyond adequate expression, Such events as these do much to strengthen the faith of the people, for it is a living example, a practical demonstration of faithful, devoted, humble and praiseworthy effort of the Relief Society." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - MRS. JULIA A. F. A - Mrs. Emma A. Empe Misg Sarah M. MeLeiland President First Counselor Second Counselor Gasenad Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ye "Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith | Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rogannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood - Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Inez K, Allen Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary GonneLtty KIMBALL Manager - -: - - - - -: - Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XVIT OCTOBER, 1930 No. 10 EDITORIAL Conservatism of Leadership, "And those behind cried—'Fotward"' "And those before cried—Back!'" — Macaulay. ANY people chafe because M things do not move faster. They criticize the leadership questioning why this isn't done or why that. No general can lead his army farther or faster than they will follow. It would spell disaster to order a charge if the rank and file would not obey. Leadership requires foresight, insight, enthusiasm, but above all does it require judgment. The leader must understand his people, what they can do, what they will do, how strong they are, whether they are made of material that will do the seemingly impossible, whether they are so tempered that practically nothing is impossible to them. Knowing these things he decides how 'far they can go, what they will attempt, what they can accomplish. He must have faith in them—but an understanding—not a blind faith. And so there comes with positions of trust and_ responsibility conservatism. Many in the rear murmur and chafe and cry "Forward." They forget that it takes time to scale the Alps. Moses, no doubt, was criticized. Why lead a people for forty years in the Wilderness when the Promised Land was so near? He knew they needed to be prepared for entrance. It would be well for the impatient ones to ponder well these words of G. K. Chesterton, "Men are progressive because they are a little behind the times. EDITORIAL They are reactionary because they are a little in advance of the times. It sounds like a paradox, but it is really a very practical and even inevitable state of things, given certain conditions. Those behind will still cry, 'Forward!' and only those far in front will cry, 'Back!' when the vanguard of the army has come 563 suddenly to the edge of a precipice." One must be very much more careful if a cause rests upon his shoulders, if he is responsible for a nation's welfare, if a people lock to him for leadership than is necessary if he stands alone—then and only then can he be a free lance.