MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL se ww Mary Connelly Kimball By Ruth May Fox "Verily she is the King's daughter And the King's daughter is all glorious within, Her clothing is of wrought gold." OW lovely it is to be able to apply such a beautiful sentirent as the above to one we know and to feel in our hearts that it is the truth! But anyone who has been intimately acquainted with Mary Connelly Kimball will gladly confirm the statement. Mary's splendid characteristics were largely determined before she saw the light of day. Was not her father born of good, Irish stock, and has he not manifested all through his life the qualities that make for — real manhood—determination, honesty, thrift, and good business ability, with a real love for acquiring knowledge? Good books have been his delight and a splendid memory has stamped their contents on his fine mind so that he is a most interesting and entertaining conversationalist. Her mother. Was a_ pioneer, crossing the plains in 1852, leaving a comfortable home in Lincolnshire, England, to join her fortunes with © a despised people. She had heard the voice of the Good Shepherd, and henceforth she meant to follow the sound thereof. This genteel, English lady joined hands with John Connelly, bringing to his home the womanly virtues that men so much admire in their wives —gentleness, consideration, sincerity, self-control, and an unselfish devotion to her husband and family, believing and practicing the scriptural adage, "A soft answer turneth away wrath." Comfort and exquisite cleanliness made their home an inviting and restful dwelling place. ARY was born in Salt Lake City, February 19, 1876, and she early manifested the qualifications that marked her life. No sooner had she made her initial bow than she gave an exhibition of her will-power. The nurse was about to give her her first drink of water when she grabbed the spoon. "Gracious!" said the nurse, "'she's going to feed herself." As a small child she was the idol of her parents. Her beautiful red, or shall I say auburn hair, hung in ringlets to her shoulders. Her featurers were regular and beaming with childish vivacity; indeed she was a lovely flower—winsome and sunny-hearted. But Mary did not have auburn curls for nothing. Every day they must be combed and brushed and curled over the finger. Sometimes the operation was not at all pleasant. "Ouch! You're pulling my hair out," the little tot cried. This would happen day after day until her father threatened to have the ringlets cut off, but as usual her mother intervened and smoothed the troubled waters, as well as the curls. Everyone that knows Mary can readily surmise that she blossomed into a lovely, charming lassie, with hair and countenance radiant as the morning. We know also that she was bright, ambitious, studious and determined to achieve success. Selfcontrol and poise marked all her relationships. A love for learning has, during the whole of her lifetime, been one of her outstanding characteristics. 544 While at school in the Eighth Ward, and later in the L. D. S. College, she made splendid records in scholarship. Nor was she satisfied upon being gratuated from the normal department of the University of Utah. After fininshing this course in 1894, she went on with her studies in the college proper and was graduated from the University of Utah with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1898. In all her school and college work, her marks were high and: her interest intense. She had now reached the goal she had set out for. She wanted to be a teacher, not just as a means of making her own way in the world, but she had a desire to give real service to the pupils who should come under her tutelage. For nine years she taught in the public schools of Salt Lake City, being employed the last few years of her teaching career in the high school. She was unusually successful. Promptness, dependability and preparedness won for her an enviable record. Her sweet disposition, her justice, together with her good, common sense, made her a favorite with the hundreds of pupils that were privileged to come under her care. Naturally, her splendid qualifications led her into the Mutual Improvement work. Soon she was made Counselor and later President of the 21st Ward Y. L. M. I. A. On the division of the ward, February 9, 1902, she became the first President of the 27th Ward. On August 6th of the same year, Nellie Colebrook Taylor invited her 'to become an aid on the Salt Lake Stake board. On March 23, 1904, after the Salt Lake Stake was divided, she was called to {work on the General Y. L. M. I. A. Board. Mary ~ Journal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE approached her Mutual work with the same preparedness and with the same spirit of helpfulness that characterized her school work, and naturally her kindness, patience, and faith won the hearts of all with whom and for whom she labored. In September 1907 there came another call, which meant that she must give up her employment, the work she loved so well. This she did willingly, although at some financial sacrifice, and became the Editor of the Young Woman's This position she held for sixteen years and was only released because she was moving from the city. How well she performed this labor is told in the pages of that magazine. Not only did she write editorials, but many articles are the results of her talent. Bur perhaps the most outstanding virtue in Mary's galaxy of virtues is her family devotion. She was ever loyal and trustworthy, an affectionate companion to her mother. To her father, faithful, kind, and considerate. She has been the keeper of his home for many years, to his entire satisfaction —the solace of his declining years— diplomatic but never retaliating or given to be dictatorial. He has many times been heard to say, "There may be daughters as good as Mary, but there are none better." Nor is that finest of all attributes —motherly affection lacking. Mary is a real lover of children, to the delight of her neighbors, whose little tots seem never so happy as when Mary is lavishing her attentions upon them. One of her own family, a little niece, also is mindful of her love and interest. For a number of years Agnes, this being her name, found MARV CONNELLY KIMBALL a real home with Grandfather and Aunt Mary, where her educational and physical welfare was solicitously taken care of, resulting in a love and affection that will never be forgotten. ON June 5, 1923, to the surprise of all her friends and asso- ' ciates, Mary was married to Andrew Kimball, President of the St. Joseph Stake., This was somewhat startling to her friends and associates, who little dreamed that this incomparable woman who had passed the heyday of her youth would ever marry. That she had had opportunities, no one doubted, but it was argued, Mary will never exchange her freedom and single blessedness for the bonds of matrimony, no matter how silken they may be. Yet, here she was, married to the man of her choice, loving and beloved, with happiness to the full. Surely she had found the abundant life. For be it known that this was no frivolous love affair but genuine and romantic as was the love of Paul and Virginia, or Romeo and Juliet. For one short year her bliss was complete with a-rosy future stretching out toward the horizon of perfect peace, but scarcely had the honeymoon ended when _ sickness laid a heavy hand upon her splendid husband, who-had proven himself to be all that a woman, even of Mary's calibre, could desire. Mrs. Kimball was an adoring wife, nursing her husband through his months of severe illness with the greatest patience and solicitude. His family regard her with the deepest admiration and affection, which she ireciprocates. In them she feels to a degree the kinship and the spirit of her husband. Like a true 545 wife she loves everyone whom he loved. The community where he lived and over which he presided so admirably for so many years is sacred to her. ARY was one of the first group of missionaries called to be a worker on the Temple Block. She 'has been a 'Sunday School teacher, a valued member of the Authors and Ensign Clubs. These are known for thorough work and exclusive membership. Needless to say that praise: and appreciation for her labors are voiced by all members of these groups. The members of the General Board of Y. L. M. I. A. With whom she has labored so long, love her and still claim her as their own. Her ability, her sympathetic kindness and willingness are proverbial. Every member of the Board while deeply regetting that their close association must be in part severed, heartily congratulate the General Board of the Relief Society that they have been able to obtain the consent of the First Presidency to install. Her as the Editor of their splendid Magazine, a position for which she is so well fitted. She will, we know, bring honor to the Magazine and to the organization with which she is now affiliated. M ARY'S past is a fair index to her future. Calm, clear and serene her life like a beautiful river will glide peacefully along, rippling and sparkling in the sunlight of heaven. \ Its tributaries, knowledge, experience, and wisdom will flow down from the everlasting peaks of intelligence, to swell the tide until her joy shall be full and the satisfaction of a well spent life shall circle her brow 'as with a diadem.