To Our Relief Society Members UR season's work is now well under way. Let every officer and member resolve. To make it the best ever enjoyed. May the visiting teachers carry more forcefully worthwhile messages. May the work and business sessions be more successful in training the hands of our women and in the amount of work accomplished. May the class work exceed all previous years in the number who study and participate in the class discussions. May the ministrations to the needy be more helpful because they are based on knowledge of how better to serve. "Interchange, not the mere reception of ideas, is the vitalizing process." We cannot too strongly urge that a big effort be put forth to get our members to read the lessons provided and do as much outside research on the subjects as time and opportunity permit. Let our Relief Society class leaders be not satisfied to have fine lectures delivered week after week, but let them put forth every effort to get all or as many as possible of those present to participate during the lesson period. Each one present should give as well as take. The interaction of mind on mind brings ideas and attitudes that are most desirable. "The great individual is the interesting individual. He listens. He unites his mind with other minds. And out of that union of. His mind with many minds come a breadth and power of insight not otherwise achieved." In adult education, discussion is increasing, the lecture method decreasing. Dr. Alexander Meiklejohn is beginning an experiment in the University of Wisconsin which eliminates the lecture system and inaugurates a technique of group mental life. At Swarthmore College, honor students gather in weekly conferences with all their instructors sitting together as a group and jointly discuss their subjects. Overstreet says, "The passively heard lectures are losing ground as a method of adult education or of any education. Those people out there in the seats must do more than feed upon their host; they themselves must, generate something. There is a growing movement to supplement the lecture with vigorous discussion, in some case even to get rid of lecturing altogether and substitute a process of group inquiry and group solution."