HOME ENTERTAINMENTS FOR SEPTEMBER. 513 HOME EVENING EXERCISE Book of Mormon Alphabet. A was a martyr for God and the truth. B was a prophet-king, righteous from youth. C was a Jaredite king left alone. D was a land of which little is known. E, while around him his people were killed, lived to see all his prophecies fulfilled. F, of all the flowers that bloomed 'neath the sun but one is mentioned, find out which one. G was a robber band wicked and vile. H was a builder whose ships reached far isle. I was an Ephraimite, from land far away. J was so faithful, the waves did obey. K was an anti-Christ seeking a sign. L was an Israelite patriarch benign. M gave a nickname to people of God. N in a vision saw the "Iron Rod." O righteous king with thirty-one offspring. P was chief judge when the Nephites were warring. Q was a queen converted by dream. R was a hill where records were seen, his people all murdered. S lost his head. T mighty general the Lamanites dread. U was a Bible king known by Isaiah. Z mighty city burned up with fire. BIBLE ALPHABET A was a traitor hung by the hair. B was a folly built high in the air. C was a mountain overlooking the sea. D was a nurse buried under a tree. E was a first born, bad from his youth. F was a ruler who trembled at truth. G was an angel sent with good word. H faithful mother, gave her son to the Lord. I was a new name received at the ford. J was a shepherd in Arabian land. K was a place near a desert of sand. L was a pauper begging his bread. M was an idol, object of dread. N was an architect ages ago. O was a rampart to keep out the foe. P was an isle, where a saint looked above. 
 Q was a Christian saluted in love. R was obscure yet a mother of kings. S was a Danite who did wondrous things. T was a city that had a strong hold. U was a country productive of gold. V was a queen whom a king set aside. W was a widow whose cruise was supplied. Z was a place where a man wished to hide. ANSWERS TO BOOK OF MORMON ALPHABET Abinadi, Benjamin, Coriantumr, Desolation, Ether, Flower (Lily), Gadianton, Hagoth, Ishmael, Jacob, Korihor, Lehi, Mormon, Nephi. Orihah, Pahoran, Queen of Lamoni, Ramah, Shiz, Teancum, Uzziah, Zarahemla. ANSWERS TO BIBLE ALPHABET Absalom, Babel, Carmel, Deborah, Esau, Felix, Gabriel, Hannah, Israel, Jethro, Kadesh-barnea, Lazarus, Moloch, Noah, Ophel. Patmos, Quartus, Ruth, Samson, Tyre, Uphaz, Vashti, Widow of Zarephath, Zoar. Find the chapter and verse for each. THE RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL. The Relief Society School for Nursing will open as usual in September. The course will consist of general instruction in nursing, and will include in addition practical demonstrations in nursing, and lectures on Invalid Cooking, First Aid, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, Contagious Diseases, Hydrotherapy, Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. The lectures will be given by specialists. Circulars containing information will be sent to Relief Society presidents. For further information address Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.