[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: ZINA D. H. YGUNG. | Author: Unknown]

ZINA D. H. YGUNG.

Tribute Paid to Her Character in Ogden on
	Her Seventy-fifth Anniversary. 
JANUARY 31st, will ever be a memorable 
day in Utah. On that date, in a little New
York town was born Zina D. H. Young,
whose labors as president of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints have attracted world-wide
attention. Each year as the day comes
round the people for whom she has done so
much endeavor to commemorate the anni-
versary of her birth in a manner in accord-
ance with the esteem in which she is held. 
The love for her increases with her age, and
although three-quarters of a century have
passed over her head her usefulness in-
creases rather than diminishes as the years
go by. To borrow the poet’s phrase, “she
is seventy five years young.”
	Last Friday being the seventy-fifth an- 
niversary of her birth, a general commem-
oration of the event was undertaken by
the branches of the great organization of
which she is the president. 
In Weber stake a celebration conforming
to the general plan was held in almost
every precinct. In Ogden the five wards
combined and held their celebration en 
masse at the large hall in the new second
ward institute, which was well filled by
representatives from each ward. The ex-
ercises opened by singing the hymn, “O
My Father,” after which Apostle F. D.
Richards made an eloquent prayer. This 
was followed by the hymn, “O Let Us Re-
joic,” sung with much feeling by all, “Twi-
light Imaginings,” a beautiful poem by
President Eliza R. Snow, was then recited
in an exquisite manner by Mrs. Farley.
	Little Lucy Woodward sang very nicely
the song “Wait, Mr. Postman,” after which
Miss Josie Zitsman rendered with marked
power the impressive poem entitled “Eve-
ning Thoughts,” by Eliza R. Snow.
Mrs. Doxey and Mrs. Poole sang a hymn 
and their effort was much appreciated.
Mrs. Christenson recited the poem, “A
Christmas Idyl,” bringing out with her
well modulated voice the full, rich meaning
of that poem written by Bishop Whitney.
	Apostle F. D. Richards then made a
strong address on the life, work and
character of Zina D. H. Young. He
eulogized her sterling qualities, her devotion
to her religion and to the cause of humanity. 
He told how impossible it was to think of
the Relief Society without thinking of this
great woman who had. devoted so many
years of her life to its upbuilding; spoke
incidentally of the noble work done and be-
ing done by the society in this and other
stakes and pointed out how such labors
were the result of this one woman’s 
unselfish devotion
	Bishop White of the third ward and
Counselor Scowcroft of the second ward
followed with brief addresses in which they
paid tribute to the Relief Society and to the
noble woman, who is its president. Hon.

[Column 2]
F. S. Richards made an eloquent address in
eulogy of President Zina D. H. Young,
referring to the influence she has exerted for
good in the world. He also referred to the
work of Eliza R. Snow as another illus-
tration of an unselfish and devoted woman,
but did not allow himself to wander far
from the subject of his address—Zina D.
H. Young—He also very strongly praised
the work of the Relief Society. His
address as pronounced by many to be a
master-piece, and it is hoped that it may
sometime be published.
	Mrs. H. C. Brown made a few well-chosen,
brief and instructive remarks, as did Mrs.
F. D. Richards, the president of the Relief
Society of this stake and the first counselor
of the president. In closing, Mrs. Rich-
ards expressed a hope that President Zina
D.H. Young should live and be president
of the Relief Society for at least twenty-five
years yet and asked that all so minded
should rise to their feet. Instantly the en-
tire assembly was standing.
	All joined in singing the Doxology, after
which Joseph A. West pronounced the bene-
diction.
	A noticable feature of the gathering was
that people of all sorts, the young and the
old, the rich and the poor, the learned and
the unlearned, were gathered together to
honor a character so beautiful in its strength,
so strong in its beauty.
Herald, Feb. 3, 1896.


