[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 10 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

[Continued from Oct. 15.]

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, "Do what is right," &c.
Prayer was offered by President M, Isabella
Horne, continued by singing "Come come
ye Saints. '
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
was the first speaker, she reported all the
branches of the Society in good condition
except Eureka, the mines there having
closed had caused a depression in every-
thing, spoke about the wheat that had been
stored and of blessings in general and
mentioned the large number of yards of
carpet the society had made and donated to

[Column 2]
the Manti Temple which was very much
appreciated, the sisters were always willing
and generous when called upon to do to
the very extent of their ability.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake
spoke principally of what had been done in
saving grain, urged the mothers to be united
with the fathers in using their influence
at home and elsewhere, union in the
family was necessary for the training of
the children.
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake explained that they were all working
people not many wealthy and none very
poor, she tried to be careful of the wheat
and keep adding to it, she often felt sur-
prised to get the little things that are do-
nated from time to time, and the good ac-
complished through the generosity of the
sisters who have little enongh for their own
comfort, yet are always willing to divide
	THE next speaker was Apostle F. D.
Richards who stated that he felt compli-
mented in being invited to attend the
Sisters’ conference, was glad to see so many
present, thought we should realize what we
were called to do, as a society, and not get
in too great a hurry, but take things
quietly; a sentiment prevailed largely about
strong-willed persons, but that will should
be regulated if good were to be the result;
but when one says "I can do nothing of
myself only to do the will of my Father
that sent me," that was the right spirit and
feeling.
	President Richards referred to the meet-
ing held in the morning at the Church
University Building in which President
Woodruff had spoken to the brethren as-
sembled in regard to the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters for a time of
want or need, said the President had given
excellent advice which would be published
for the benefit of all interested in the
matter.
	The Lord has promised many adversities
and famine is one of them; the sisters had
been helping the brethren all the time, to
build houses, and now the speaker
thought the brethren would help the sisters
in return, thought if we solicited their help
in the spirit of kindness, and asked for
what we wanted and kept on asking and
importuning we would get it; the speaker
urged the sisters to take good care of the
sick and needy and not hesitate because
they are not good, they must have atten-
tion, "cherish the attribute of love, that
will help you in all your labors, it is an old
saying "Love laughs at locksmiths," it is
certainly a potent power, we should all
cultivate it, we all need it;" he then gave
some advise to the sisters in regard to buy-
ing wheat, study the markets, knew wheat
would be rising in value. President Young
and other brethren traveled through the
Stakes of Zion counseling the people to lay
up wheat; quoted from the 14th Chapter of
Revelations "Another angel flying etc.
for the hour of his judgment has come;"
a hurricane has just swept over the coast
which has killed two or three thousand
people at one fell swoop; when people build
banks, hotels etc., let them remember the
hour of His judgment has come." Presi-
dent Cannon has been speaking recently
upon false doctrine being insidiously in-
troduced and that much mischief is being
done, one family had asked to have their
names taken from the Church books.
Elder Richards warned the people against
these false doctrines, said every Latter-day
Saint who don't know the truth of this

[Column 3]
work, should get a testimony by faith and
prayers; sometimes in sickness people run
after the Doctor and lose their faith in the
servants of God and the priesthood; "these
people may make great pretensions but the
Lord has warned us against those decep-
tions, could we stand firm if we saw fire
come down out of heaven? by and by there
will be magicians, they will be equal to
Moses day when sticks were turned to
serpents and back again to sticks;" Presi-
dent Richards also alluded to Theosophy,
and other erroneous doctrines, these things
are moving more among the sisters than
the brethren; then referred to the doctrine
of reincarnation, said it used to be called
the baby resurrection, it was brought to the
attention of Joseph the Prophet, by a
polished gentleman, Joseph said there was
no truth in it, other errors sprang up,
Millerism, second-adventists, spiritualists
and mesmerizes, "the Lord is not going to
tell us, beforehand the day nor the hour of
certain events: in the Savior's time, no one
knew except the Father and Him only,
stick to the scriptures and hearken to the
words of the servants of God, and the
Gospel as revealed to you in your native
lands, thank the Lord for every blessing."
Elder Richards closed his remarks by bless-
ing all assembled and said go home rejoic-
ing, your hearts light, may the Holy Spirit
comfort you and gladden your souls, impart
to others, your sisters and associates in this
work, the good things you have heard here
and during the Conference that has just
closed.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the love she felt for the sisters, and blessed
them in her tender motherly way, referred
to her visit to Chicago and the many
noble women she met there, knew that
they were working for the good of their
sex. Joseph the Prophet had turned the
key of knowledge for all women, and ever
since that time woman's influence had been
greater in all directions for good. Presi-
dent Young then said she wished to in-
crease the sphere of usefulness of the
sisters who were presiding in the several
stakes and have them become aids to the
General Presidency of the Relief Society
to herself and her Counselors, that they
might visit among the adjacent Stakes of
Zion either by invitation or appointment,
stated that it was sometimes impossible for
her or either of her Counselers to attend
the Sisters' Conferences that were remote
from here and in this way it might be
beneficial to those at a distance to have the
President or Presidents near attend each
others Conferences, much good might be
effected by the interchange of ideas and
thoughts, and it would promote greater
union and love by becoming familiarly
acquainted with each others' labors, she had
been inspired to give this counsel; it had
come to her like a power and a glow and
joy, and she added "if you do this you will
have joy in your labors, and in cooperating
together and it will increase faith and a
better understanding of our great work
and give us renewed strength to perform
our duties. It is our privilege to be hum-
ble and faithful and if we are we shall be
prepared for all our duties, the Lord bless
you my dear sisters and give you his Holy
Spirit for your guide.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
felt we had enjoyed a feast of fat things,
said in that county the sisters had nearly a
thousand bushels of wheat not much
chance to glean now as they did formerly


because of the machinery taking up the
grain so clean, that none was left for glean-
ing, Sister Hyde made other excellent re-
marks.
	President Sarah M. Kimball thought of
many subjects that might be presented, but
felt time was short, spoke of the little fund
the sisters laid up, a missionary fund in fact,
though the means should be used wisely
and for improvement, mentally, spiritually
and financially, thought the Lord would
not give us means, if we did not make a
success, there were many things that made
us feel akin and and reach out to all the
brotherhood of man and the sisterhood of
woman. Referred specially to the meeting
of the Woman's Congress held on Sunday
in the Art Palace in one of the great halls,
when sixteen ordained women ministers
sat upon the platform representing thirteen
denominations, one was clad in the sacer-
dotal robes of the Episcopal Church, it was
a beautiful sight to see these grand women
thus assembled; the speaker asked the
Lord to bless and restore Sister Richards
(who had not been able to come to the con-
ference) and to bless Brother Richards who
had done so much to elevate woman and to
help us all in the Relief Society; said a few
words in regard to women speaking at
the funerals of the sisters thought it was
quite proper that they should.
	At the close of the Conference, Apostle
Richards made a few appropriate remarks,
said Sister Young's inspiration concerning
the Presidents of Stakes was timely," two
or three visit together in convenient local-
ities, invite each other, and so on, it will be
a mutual benefit and there will be a corps of
laborers under the direction of the President
and her Counselors. The sisters of the
Relief Society are laborers and mothers in
Israel in thought and experience; and
women are more inclined to be
spiritual-minded, than the brethren,
and are more refined,—we have a fore-
taste here of the life that is to come, would
like to mention the National Woman's Relief
Society, you have in it a legal organization
of holding property in the Society; some of us
are afraid of the name, we have grown a
little, and we have a right to the name,
that should not alter the spirit but
strengthen the work, men have been or-
ganized into an Ecelesiatical organization in
wards also stake organizations, it has not
altered things at all, neither will it with
you, but put you into a position to hold
your property, these corporate powers
ought not to confuse you, or lead to differ-
ences: Constantine the Emperor turned over
everything to the law, we have as a society
become national and perhaps will be In-
ternational, this society is a great body and
is of some consequence and standing among
other great Associations, and the name
should correspond." President Richards
then announced the Rev. Howis lecture on
music and morals to be given in the evening
at that place. Singing "Lord Dismiss us
with thy Blessing." Benediction by Apos-
tle F. D. Richards. Conferenoe adjourn-
ed for six months.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

