An Appreciation of Mrs. Alpha M. Smoot

Wife of Senator Reed Smoot

By Don B. Colton

Those who attended the wonderfully impressive funeral services of Sister Smoot will long remember the comforting remarks made upon the occasion. As I listened, there came before me additional thoughts of what might be said concerning her missionary work in Washington, where she lived so many years.

Many will remember the years 1903 and 1904 when the question as to whether or not Utah could make its own choice of a United States Senator was being fought out. Those were momentous days for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and for all Utahns. Feeling all over the nation ran high against the Church.

When Senator and Mrs. Smoot came to Washington, there were few if any friends to greet them. Most people looked upon them with scorn and almost contempt. We talk much of the cold reception accorded our missionaries. What of this family? What of this good woman who had left a good home among friends to come to live in a hostile city? Think you not that it required courage? She faced the contumely and insults bravely. She knew her cause was just and was therefore, "thrice armed." No one ever heard her make apologies for her religion. No one ever saw her afraid to speak boldly in its defense. She fought courageously by the side of her husband for what she believed to be right, undaunted and unafraid.

After Senator Smoot was finally seated, then came the struggle for respect and recognition. It came slowly but surely. We are glad to know she lived to see some of the honor accorded her illustrious husband. She must have found some satisfaction in comparing the later years of her life with her early sojourn in Washington. She must have rejoiced in the thought of the change from the Senator Smoot, unknown and almost rejected, to the Senator Smoot known all over the nation and indeed the world, and to feel that she played a part in bringing about the change.

All the years of her life in Washington were spent in service for the people of her Church and her State. For years the little band of Church workers met in the home of Brother and Sister Smoot. They had no other meeting place. Those who attended will always remember the sweet spirit of those meetings and the warmth and depth of the welcome extended by the family.

Her labors were as bread cast upon the water to return after many days. The years have brought great changes. One cannot help but think of those beautiful words:

"God's plan, like lilies pure and white, unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart;
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold.
And if, by faith and patient toil, we reach the land
Where tired feet with sandals loose may rest,
Where we shall know and understand,
I think that we shall say, 'God knew best'."

Surely Sister Smoot worked, believing "God knew the best." Many of those who have lived in Washington will and do testify of the influence of this missionary service upon their lives, for surely she was a missionary. Day by day through the years that followed her coming, she worked for the vindication of her people. It has come or is rapidly coming.

How times have changed! Work and character that rest upon the Rock of Ages will ultimately triumph. The branch of the Church has grown in Washington until a private home will not accommodate the members. One scarcely ever hears now a disparaging thing said of the Latter-day Saints. They are received everywhere. Let us not forget the services of those who have, under God, helped to bring the change. It is missionary service of the highest order.

This woman, with qualities of mind and heart of the missionary type, gave new grace and brought new charm to social and domestic life. People saw and were convinced they were wrong. They had misjudged her people. A woman possessing such qualities of mind and heart could not fail to impress others. Senator Smoot's success has been largely built upon the foundation of capacity, character and courage. She helped him through the long years of struggle and now has gone to a well earned rest.

Her work and her helpfulness were appreciated by her husband. Through the long weeks and months of her last illness he tenderly watched over her and provided for her every need. Those who have lived in Washington during that time know part of the story of love and devotion on the part of Senator Smoot. It has been a lesson of devotion and fidelity we shall not forget. Faith, too, played its part. Many a prayer was offered and answered as time and again her life was spared. It is a marvelous story for some one yet to tell.

Some one has expressed the thought that death is the means by which one acquires the fulfillment of which this life is but a prophecy. Life and death form but parts of one grand drama. How often, as we stand by the bier of a loved one, do we ask the question, Is death the end of our individual and conscious being? Are all these pleasing thoughts, these ardent affections, our glowing hopes and lofty aspirations, our capacity for love, happiness, and knowledge, which we feel expanding—are all these to cease at death and be buried in the grave? If this be true, Chauncey Giles has well said, "Then man is the greatest enigma in the universe. Compared with the possibilities of his nature, he is a fading flower, the withering grass, the morning cloud, the tale that is told." But this is not true. After death man will live again.

To the good and wise, death opens the shining portals of an endless life, where service and love find their fullest sway. These thoughts came to me as I stood by the bier of Sister Smoot.

Tennyson, one of England's sweetest poets, said:

Nor blame I death because he bare
The use of virtue out of earth,
I know transplated human worth
Will bloom to profit otherwhere.

Utahns in Washington feel a void in their social and religious life. Two great missionaries have labored long and faithfully together. One is resting.