Florence Gay Smith Blanche B. Stoddard Member, Relief Society General Board RUSKIN said, "The path of a good woman is indeed strewn with roses, but they fall behind her footsteps, not before." Sister Florence Gay Smith, newly chosen member of the General Board of Relief Society, has indeed left behind her a path of roses, as she has given her life to the service of others. Hundreds of grateful missionaries are better men and women because they were permitted to come under her sweet influence. More than twelve years of her life have been spent in the mission field. She first became a mission mother when she accompanied her husband, the late Nicholas G. Smith, to the South African Mission. They had three small sons at that time, and Sister Smith had many adjustments to make in a faraway, strange land. She learned many fine lessons of life the hard way. After returning home, she was active for many years in ward and stake Primary and Mutual Improvement Associations. She served for one year in the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society presidency. Brother Smith served as bishop of the Seventeenth Ward for twelve years, during which time Florence was by his side in the role of a gracious ward mother. They were called to preside over the California Mission for three years, and Sister Smith had charge of fifty Relief Society organizations. At the end of this time, she became matron of the Salt Lake Temple while her husband was in the Temple presidency. FLORENCE GAY SMITH It was she who was the originator of the lovely "brides' room." Another call came to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, where again, she headed the Relief Society work. Sister Smith comes from sturdy Puritan and pioneer stock. She was born in Ogden, Utah, where she spent her girlhood and received her schooling. Her father was John Franklin Gay, and her mother was Tirzah Farr, daughter of Lorin Farr, the first mayor of Ogden. Her marriage to Nicholas G. Smith was a beautiful romance. They have four sons, all fine Latter-day Saints. Gerald Gay served in the district presidency of Washington D. C., before Page 25 26 it became a stake; John Henry is former bishop of the Arlington Ward in Virginia; Stanford Groesbeck is now bishop of the Wilshire Ward in Los Angeles; Nicholas Groesbeck, Jr. Is attending the University of Utah. Undaunted faith has characterized the life of Sister Smith. She brings to the Relief Society General Board a wealth of experience, spirituality, and graciousness, and to the women of the Church, an understanding heart.