Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1887 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS" EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES: For some years a great deal has been said about Bro. Stephens' wonderful faculty for teaching singing, and it is well known that his efforts in behalf of the youth of Zion have already been attended with the best success.... But to accomplish this the student must be interested in the work as well as the teacher.... Like many other professional men, Brother Stephens needs encouragement, and enthusiastic, as well as practical support from the community.... THE NEW YEAR: How little any of us know, unless by the spirit of prophecy at the commencement of a new year, what awaits us or our friends, or our people, ere the year shall draw to a close.... Faith in God, humility and patience, will overcome, and the right will triumph.... And though it is not expected all who hear will believe, yet the Gospel must be sounded to all nations.... It is to be hoped that in the year now opening up great progress may be made in Zion, spiritual, mental and moral.... And coupled with this wish, the Exponent extends congratulations of the season and a happy new year to all. EDITORIAL NOTES: The several wards of this city, and the country wards, as far as we have learned, have been specially mindful of the poor, the aged and the sick during the Christmas season. CANDIES AND CREAMS: A cream made of confectioner's sugar is the basis of uncooked candies. Take a good-sized bowl and break into it the white of one, two, or more eggs, and add to it an exactly equal quantity of cold water. Then stir in confectioner's sugar slowly until you have it stiff enough to be moulded.... Flavor to taste with any essence liked best.... Another delicious variety may be made by working into the cream the juice and grated rind of an orange.... BOX ELDER STAKE: The Thirty-third Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake convened on the 14th of December, 1886.... After the opening exercises Prest. Harriet Snow arose and said, "I feel thankful we have the privilege to meet once more in a conference capacity. I trust we may have the Spirit of the Lord to guide us...." Susannah P. Boothe, Prest. Of lst Ward, said, "Let us remember our brethren and sisters who cannot be with us. We can do a great deal of good in cheering those who are down-hearted, besides doing good to the poor.... I hope we will not be weary in well doing...." Sister Perry, Prest. Of Three Mile Creek, said, ""What good we have learned will follow us into Eternity.... Let us be kind and helpful to those in trouble. Let us do all in our power to share their troubles and comfort them...." DANCING IN THE WHITE HOUSE: Since Mrs. Cleveland has returned home it has turned out that she went to New York to shop and buy dresses. The report is that the new dresses have been ordered without train, or dancing length, as the dressmakers say.... It is said that Mrs. Cleveland intends giving one or two dancing parties in the White House. Ex. ' Page 48