home for the holidays, these nostalgic reunions prompt entertaining and festive foods. The gaiety of the holly season brings out the party-giver in us. We all have our own special menus for the traditional feast days. However, on those other occasions when we invite guests for a brunch, an open-house, or a buffet, we can make hostessing a joy by creating unusual and imaginative food dishes, many of which can be prepared in advance. TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Brunch, that delightful combination of breakfast and lunch, is a heart-warming way to extend yuletide hospitality. Chicken Breast Gourmet Orange Rice Mold with Pimento Stars Della Robbia Fruit Wreath Fruit Dressing Stollen Stick Bread Butter Celery Hot Chocolate With Whipped Cream and Red Cinnamon Candies AFTER THE Two whimsical red flannel figures, trimmed with gold ribbon braid, peal out a "welcome home." PLANE ARRIVES Round place mats, cut from felt with the pinking shears, contrast with the white Christmas tree plates, and bronze silverware accents the other golden touches. Hot chocolate in jolly Santa Claus mugs is crowned with a dollop of whipped cream sprinkled with red cinnamon candies (keep the chocolate mild and add a whisper of almond flavoring for a taste treat). The party-starter is tomato juice.. Featured for the main course are delicious chicken breasts gourmet and a mold of orange rice with plump light raisins and Christmasy pimento stars. An eye-catching Della Robbia fruit wreath (it's easy art) of color-bright canned and fresh fruits is served with a luscious tangy dressing—and what could be more homey than tantalizing jewel-studded holiday bread? CHICKEN BREAST GOURMET 6 med. Chicken breasts or 3 large breasts cut in half? Tsp. Salt va c. Butter or margarine 1 four-oz. Can mushrooms, drained 2 tbsp. Seasoned flour 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Ya ". Flour Ya tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 chicken bouillon cube 1 c¢. Hot water Y% ¢. Light or heavy cream Method: Mix flour, salt, and pepper in heavy paper bag. Add chicken and coat thoroughly. Brown slowly in butter or substitute. Remove chicken from pan and add onion and mushrooms; cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Stir in the 2 tbsp. Of seasoned flour. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to flour-fat mixture and stir until smooth. Add slowly the lemon juice and cream. Arrange chicken in casserole or flat baking dish; spoon sauce over chicken; cover and bake in a medium oven for about 1 hour. Uncover for the last 15 minutes if a crisp chicken is desired. Serves 6. ORANGE RICE MOLD WITH PIMENTO STARS 1 ¢. Regular long grain rice VY tsp. Curry powder V2 tsp. Salt Yc. Light seedless raisins pimentos 2 to 4 tbsp. Frozen orange juice concentrate, undiluted 1 pt. Water 2 tbsp. Butter Method: Combine curry and orange juice concentrate. (The amount of the juice used will depend on one's taste and the color desired). Mix to a smooth paste and add remaining ingredients. Place in baking dish and bake covered in a 325 to 350 degree oven for about 142 hours or until rice is done. Mix lightly with a fork to distribute raisins. Pack in buttered mold and keep warm until serving time. Unmold on serving plate and trim with pimento stars. Individual molds may be used. Blanched almonds may be added just prior to placing in mold. Nice with fried or creamed chicken. DELLA ROBBIA FRUIT WREATH canned peach halves canned pear halves canned preserved or spiced crabapples creamed cheese, softened and whipped with milk, if necessary Tokay grapes granulated sugar canned pineapple slices canned whole apricots curly endive 2 or 3 green gumdrops green grapes egg white pink or red coloring Method: Use your own imagination and creativity in making this wreath, both in the selection of fruits and in the arranging of them. Remember that color contrasts are effective. The above ingredients are merely suggestive. Drain the canned fruit (save the juices for punch) and chill. Arrange a bed of curly endive on a large round serving dish or chop platter. Place all decorated fruit in a circle around a bowl of fruit dressing. The pears and peaches are pretty with two halves put together with a ruffle of cream cheese. Wipe the halves thoroughly and spread one half of the fruit around the edges with the cheese; add the other half and let the cheese extend beyond the joining of the two. A dried fruit and nut mixture may be used to stuff fruit, if desired. Make blushing pears by rubbing each half with a tiny bit of rosy coloring; stand upright, and garnish with leaves cut from green gumdrops. Frosted grapes add an artistic touch. Several hours or the day before assembling the wreath, dip bunches of grapes into slighty beaten egg white. Drain off excess egg white and dip in granulated sugar. Dry thoroughly. FRUIT DRESSING v2 ". Lemon juice 3 whole eggs 1 c. Sugar 1 c. Whipping cream Method: Beat eggs and add sugar and lemon juice. Cook in double boiler or in a very heavy pan until mixture is thick, stirrring constantly. Cool and fold in whipping cream. Makes about 3 cups of dressing. Delicious with all kinds of fruit salads. Keeps well in refrigerator. THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT STOLLEN STICK BREAD (Easy Christmas Bread) 3 cakes compressed yeast or 3 pkgs. Active dry yeast Ye c. Warm water 2% c. Whole milk 1% ¢. Sugar Method: Dissolve the yeast cakes in warm water. Scald milk and add sugar, salt, and shortening. Cool. Beat the eggs and add to cooled milk mixture. Sift 10 cups flour and stir part into milk mixture to make a thin batter. Stir in the dissolved yeast cakes and remaining flour. Knead 2 or 3 minutes or until smooth. Place in large well-greased bowl. Cover tightly and store in refrigerator. It will keep 4 to 5 days. Shape as needed. May be made into all kinds of rolls and fancy breads—crescents, loaves, braids, or candied fruit and nuts 1 tbsp. Salt 1 c. Shortening (solid) 6 eggs 10 c. Flour fruit and nuts to dough for stollen bread. Top of bread may be decorated also. Let rise at room temperature until double in bulk and bake at 350 to 400 degrees. Bake rolls or bread sticks 10 to 15 minutes. Loaves will require an hour or more. Makes 18 large bread sticks or 3 to 4 loaves. May be frosted with glaze made from powdered sugar and undiluted frozen orange juice concentrate to make of spreading consistency. Decorations may be placed on top of glaze. Ideal for gift giving. Any number of other shapes. Add candied What type of Christmas food and service teams best with the cheery note of the blazing hearth? The answer, of course, is the holiday buffet supper. Do-ahead foods with their festive touches, easy serving, opportunity to use one's prettiest serving pieces, and an informal setting for sharing the spirit of the season characterize this type of entertaining. LIGHTING OF THE YULE LOG French Onion Soup Parmesan Cheese Garnish Melba Toast Glorified Party Lasagne Winter Pear Salad Sweet French Dressing with Pomegranate Seeds Whole-Wheat Refrigerator Bread Sticks Butter Relish Trees Bavarian Cream Grandma's Christmas Bell Cookies A holly tree, accented with fresh red carnations inserted in florists' tubes which hold water and keep the ball fresh for several days, points up the holiday green cloth of heavy ribbed cotton. Two smaller relish trees are laden with cherry tomatoes, Mexican peppers, olives, pickles, radish roses, and cauliflower segments. The trees are made of styrofoam balls (grapefruit may be used), impaled on dowels set in plaster of Paris in clay pots. Pots and dowels are painted white. As finishing touches, the tops of the pots are decorated; parsley is used as a base for the relish trees. Antique pearl-handled silver and white plates and cups add a sharp note. Tasty French onion soup is ladled from an old tureen and makes a happy supper beginning as the yule log is lighted. The "piece de resistance" is glorified party lasagne, a hearty, subtly seasoned dish, loved by young and old. With it is served a simple winter pear salad and whole-wheat bread sticks fresh from the oven. The piquant goodness of sweet French dressing with bright pomegranate seeds garnishes the pears. A lighthearted dessert, a Bavarian cream, resplendent in a green pressed glass compote, and Grandma's Christmas bell cookies are a gay finale. FRENCH ONION SOUP 1 large soup bone (also beef shank if meat is desired) celery, parsley, a carrot, and bay leaf for seasoning 6 med. Onions 1 pkg. Dry onion soup salt and pepper 3 to 4 qts. Water 1 large onion 4 tbsp. Butter % to Ya c. Soy sauce Method: Brown soup bone on all sides and add seasonings, including salt and pepper. Add one large onion and water. Let simmer for several hours. Strain and cool, removing fat from top. Saute 6 sliced onions in butter until transparent; add pkg. Dry commercial onion soup, soy sauce, and simmer for 2 hours. Place melba toast in bottom of dish or cup. Fill with onion soup and garnish with Parmesan cheese. Serves 10 to 12 generously. Can be made ahead and frozen. GLORIFIED PARTY LASAGNE Va to % |b. Lasagne noodles 2 med. Onions, grated or chopped 926 MODEL. SUSAN FAITH SOWARDS 2 15~0z. Cans tomato sauce 2 tbsp. Brown sugar Y% tsp. Onion salt 1 tbsp. Dried parsley (2 to 3 tbsp. Finely chopped fresh parsley) Ya tsp. Oregano 1 8-0z. Can mushrooms 3 hard-cooked eggs (may be omitted) Ya Ib. Mozzarella cheese or Monterey jack, grated Y% Ib. Nippy American cheese, grated 2 Ibs. Ground beef 1 #2% can tomatoes 1 to 1% tsp. Spaghetti seasoning Y% tsp. Garlic salt 1 small can small pitted ripe olives % |b. Ricotta or cottage cheese, not creamed 2 to 3 oz. Parmesan cheese Method: Cook noodles according to directions on package. Lift carefully onto damp cloth. Store in refrigerator until needed. Lightly brown and cook meat until well done. Add sauce, tomatoes, mushrooms with liquid, seasonings, and liquid from olives. Simmer slowly for about two hours, or until thick. Add olives during last of cooking period. Alternate layers of noodles and sauce in 8 x 13 x 1% to 2-inch flat baking pan, ending with sauce. Sprinkle each sauce layer with cheeses and sliced eggs, reserving Parmesan cheese for top layer after putting other cheeses on first. Bake in 325 to 350 degree oven for about one hour or a little longer, or until slighty brown and bubbly. Serves 12 generously. Freezes well if eggs are omitted. SWEET FRENCH DRESSING Y% ". Sugar 1 tsp. Dry mustard Yy tsp. Celery seed % c. Mild vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Grated onion 1 c. Salad oil few pomegranate seeds or 2 tbsp. Chopped red maraschino cherries Method: Combine dry ingredients in small bowl of electirc mixer or beat by hand with rotary beater. Add onion to bowl. Slowly add salad oil alternately with a few drops of the vinegar, beating constantly while adding and between times. Do not shake in a covered jar. Dressing will be fairly thick. Serve on fresh and cooked fruit combinations, melon, or lettuce. If oil separates after storing in refrigerator, beat up well with spoon before serving. Makes about 12 cups. Variation: Where color scheme does not call for pink or red, add 1 tsp. Paprika to dry ingredients. WHOLE-WHEAT REFRIGERATOR ROLLS 1 compressed yeast cake or 1 pkg. Active dry yeast 2 tbsp. Tepid water 1 tbsp. Sugar 3 eggs 2 c. White flour lc. Milk, scalded Y% c. Shortening Y% ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 c. Whole-wheat flour Method: Dissolve yeast cake in tepid water and add 1 tbsp. Sugar. Let stand until bubbly. Add shortening, sugar, and salt to scalded milk. Cool and add beaten eggs; stir in yeast mixture. Sift the flour into liquid and stir just long enough to mix in the flour. Do not knead. Dough will be soft. Grease large bowl and put in dough. Cover tightly and let stand in the refrigerator over night or until well chilled. Make into roils and let rise 2 to 3 hours before baking. Dough will THE CHRISTMAS HOME — INSIDE AND OUT keep several days in the refrigerator. Bake at 375 to 400 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. Makes about 35 to 40 rolls, depending on size, or 8 large bread sticks. BAVARIAN CREAM 1 pkg. Unflavored gelatine (1 tbsp.) 4 eggs, separated Yc sugar 1 c. Heavy cream blanched almonds and green candied cherries 2 tbsp. Cold water 1 ¢. Whole milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Y2 tsp. Almond extract Method: Soften gelatin in cold water. Scald milk and pour over egg yolk and sugar mixture. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until smooth and _ thick. Add softened gelatin and continue to stir until gelatin is completely dissolved. Cool and stir from time to time to prevent a crust from forming. Fold in beaten egg whites and whipped cream and chill for several hours before serving. Can be poured immediately into serving dish and decorated after it sets with almond and green cherry poinsettias. May be put in a ring mold and served with fruit. Serves about 8. GRANDMA'S CHRISTMAS BELL COOKIES 1 lb. Butter 1% c. White sugar 4'2 to 5c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 whole eggs 1 tsp. Baking powder % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Almond or vanilla flavoring Method: Proceed as for plain cake. Use just enough flour to handle. Roll out very lightly with well-floured rolling pin or pat out to a thickness of about %-% inch. This short bread dough must be handled with a light touch, but it is well worth it. Cut with a Christmas bell cookie cutter and transfer to cookie sheet with spatula. Decorate with sugar decorettes, candied fruit or nuts, or leave plain. Bake in 350 degree oven for 12 to 15 minutes or until very delicately brown. This dough is ideal for a cookie press or it may be made in rolls and used as a refrigerator cookie. Makes 6 to 7 dozen, depending on size. A holiday open house can be a gracious, hospitable way of seeing a large number of friends and exchanging warm greetings in person.