VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 54—"For Unto Him That Receiveth It Shall Be Given More Abundantly, Even Power" (D & C 71:6). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, Objective: To show that knowledge leads to more knowledge and wisdom begets wisdom. Tue entire quotation from which this message in the Doctrine and Covenants is taken states, "Now, behold this is wisdom; whoso readeth, let him understand and receive also; For unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power" (D & C 71:5-6). Those called to proclaim the gospel, expounding the things of the kingdom according to the spirit and power given them, were promised that as they proclaimed the gospel truths, more power to teach the gospel would be added unto them. This promise of being given added ability or power is also referred to by the Savior in these words: 'For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath" (Matt. 13:12). The fulfillment of this promise is realized not only as we preach the gospel, but also as we seek after knowledge, wisdom, and understanding. The assurance of having knowledge added upon knowledge is one of the most interesting, gratifying, and comforting of life's basic challenges. One of the interesting characteristics of knowledge is, that as we seek and receive it, it comes to us with its own magnifier and multi plier. 'Truth leads to more truth. Knowledge opens the door to more. Knowledge and as one learns, one's capacity to learn improves and one's __ scope of understanding is broadened. President Heber Grant so often emphasized the aphorism of Emerson "That which we persist in doing becomes easier for us to do; not that the nature of the thing itself is changed, but that our power to do is increased" (Gospel Standards, page 355). President Grant's own life exemplified dramatically the application of this basic truth. He surmounted many unusual difficulties through practice and persistence, by taking one step at a time and by using each mastered step to assist him to take the next one. The story is well known of how he improved his penmanship from virtual illegibility to beautiful handwriting through persistence and practice. Also, as a small boy he was unable to sing or carry a tune, and those who tried to teach him despaired in their ef- forts. Yet, through persistent practice and determination, one step at a time, he learned to sing numerous songs and hymns. George D. Pyper, famed musician, once remarked, "President Grant was born with less tune, time, or rhythm than most mortals, yet by his intense energy and persistence, he overcame this handicap" (Hincxiey, Bryant S-:: Life of a Great Leader, page 48). Certainly as we succeed in performing well one task, our ability to move forward to greater accomplishments is improved. 'Truly, as the Doctrine and Covenants states "'unto him that receiveth it shall be given more abundantly, even power' (D & C 71:6). During his ministry, the Savior lamented the fact that many of the people he attempted to teach, although they had eyes and ears, were unable to see, hear, or understand. Unfortunately, this is also frequently true in our own experience. We refuse to see or to receive knowledge. All too often we allow confusion, complacency, uncertainty, and lack of confidence to blind and cheat us out of the joys and _ accomplishments that knowledge and understanding can bring. Some years ago a great woman swimmer who had conquered the English Channel attempted to swim the shorter distance from the Callifornia coast to Catalina Island. The water was cold and a heavy fog lay on the ocean. After successfully LESSON DEPARTMENT covering most of the distance, the swimmer gave up and asked to be taken into the boat which accompanied her. Some time later she was asked if, perhaps, a combination of the cold water and the distance had been responsible for her failure. She replied, "No, it was not the cold nor the distance, it was the fog. I became discouraged when I could not see my objective." Fog (lack of confidence and faith) can easily dim our eyes so that we cannot see our objectives. We become discouraged and close our minds so that we cannot receive wisdom and understanding. As a result, we fail in the accomplishments for which we are actually qualified. In order to gain the joys which accomplishment and achievement bring, we must keep constantly in mind that one task well done leads to the next and makes its achievement less difficult. We must keep fog, complacency, and uncertainty from dimming our eyes and minds, constantly remembering, as the Lord has promised, that as we progress in wisdom and understanding, it shall be given to us more abundantly. Like a muscle that grows stronger through exercise, the successful completion of each new task strengthens our ability to meet and accomplish the next. Step by step as we progress we receive wisdom and knowledge and we enhance our ability to gain added strength and power. 939 f