[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: ANGELINA. | Author: Unknown]

ANGELINA.
A STORY
[By W. Crouch]
	I WAS born in one of the most delightful
of all the delightful places in dear old Eng-
land. My childhood was passed, mid
flowers and fruits and waving grain, green
fields, and groves and shady lanes, and the
ever varying and delicious music, of paren-
tal instruction, childrens prattle, the hum-
ming of bees and the singing of birds.
	Well do I remember rising with the lark
in the morning, in the delicious May
weather we then enjoyed. When from the
surrounding meadows, first one would
twitter, and then rise up and sing; and
then another and another, till more than a
dozen larks would be in the air at once,
pouring forth the delicious harmony of their
morning song! By the time the first part
was concluded, the woods and groves would
be alive with choristers. The thrush, the
blackbird, the starling, the linnet, the gold-
finch, the bullfinch, the chaffinch, the tom-
tit and all his followers, with the rest of
the feathered tribe would be pouring forth
their songs of praise, and grateful acknowl-
edgement for the bounties of heaven. And
the great Hallelujah chorus would be re-
peated over and over again with the ut-
most delight and gusto, compatible with
musical harmony.
	My parents were poor but industrious,
and they taught their children to be indus-
trious too. So that the early summer
morning often found us sowing, planting,
hoeing or weeding, in the midst of all this
delightful music and sunshine.
	I suppose there were cold and dreary
winters in those years, but I do not seem
to remember them. I remember how I
loved my father and mother, my two

[Column 2]
brothers, and my little darling, my only
sister. I remember how pleased I felt
when she was born; when I first learned
that I had a sister. How proud I was to be
her nurse. How I would hold her to my
bosom and breathe into her infant soul, as
it were, such loving words as rose so na-
turally then, to lips not yet defiled! And
often have I seen not only my mother but
father do the same. And how often in
after life has my soul seemed to feed upon
the memory of the past, and longed to re-
turn again to, or reproduce such happy
days.
	When we would run through the fields
to meet our father returning from work,
and he wouid often stop, and fondly em- 
brace us all. Then taking baby in his arms,
with words of love and kind encourage-
ment, would lead us home. There to re-
new those tender embraces in which our
loving mother always shared.
	Little did we think then, that the time
would ever come that we should be met
with a scornful frown, but so it came to
pass.
	For some cause that I never understood,
we removed from our peaceful home in the
country to London. I believe that an offer
to my father of higher wages, was the
cause. We had heard wonderful stories of
London, and I remember how we all en-
couraged each other to rejoice in the pros-
pect before us. And alas! I remember too,
how soon we were undeceived.
	The sweet refreshing breeze, the clear
and delicious sunshine, the delightful music
of the birds, and above all the bright green
fields were gone, and seemed to be gone
from us forever.
	Whenever I was sent on an errand, or
had occasion to go from place to place, at
every turn of the street I would look for
green fields but I looked in vain.
	Were I to tell you all the. discomforts of
our new home, it would be but the old
story, that breathes too much of disgust
for description here. Suffice it to say,
every one of us felt unhappy. I can re-
member, how tiresome we children were,
and our dear mother’s patience, and for-
bearance, under all her trials.
	But there was now a new trial looming
in the future, greater and worse than them
all. My poor but good, my kind and
loving father, now-seemed to lose his love
for us, and took to drinking as he said, to
enable him to sleep at nights. I remember
hearing my mother say, “what was good
for her husband, was good for her.” And
as they had walked in the way of virtue
and peace, so they went down the hill to-
gether. But it was not the way of peace
now; Alas no! “the way of transgressors
is hard.” And so it verily was, to them
and us. My brothers learned to roam about
the streets, in bad company, to fight and
swear; and became lazy and saucy to my
poor mother, and untruthful.
	But in the midst of all this degradation,
my little sister Linny, seemed to grow up
so pure and loving; so kind and affectionate,
and even happy. Often as I reflect upon
the past, do I seem to hear her musical
voice, as she would come bounding into the
room, to tell of some kind action done, of
some sweet babe that she had been nursing
perhaps half a day for a penny; and now
that the soul-destroying drink, had brought
us to abject poverty, little Linny’s pence
were often needed for bread.
	One evening, when my father and
mother had been drinking, and had a

[Column 3]
terrible quarrel, I had been tremblingly
watching, in the hope of being able to
prevent them doing each other harm. I had
missed Linny and knew not where she had
gone. When my father and mother were
quarreling, I had often persuaded her to go
to a neighbor’s house out of the way for I
knew such scenes were terribly painful to
her. After getting my parents to bed,
(girl as I was) and seeing them fast asleep,
sat down to wait for Linny; when I heard
her sweet voice gently calling me up the
stairs. We had no candle, inside the house
it was dark; but outside, it was clear and
star light. I crept softly up to the little
back room where we slept. There sat my
sister at the window, gazing on a star,
“Angelina” she said, “sit down beside me
darling, and look at this beautiful star, I
have been admiring it so long, and have
seen fields and flowers, and beautiful trees:
even surpassing the beauty of those of our
dear old home.” “Look,” said she “and
you’ll see the star open.”
	Well we sat down, hand in hand,long and
lovingly together, conversing about the
star, but to me the star opened not, neither
did I expect it would. I remember she
repeated some sweet and comforting texts
of scripture, and passages she had learned
at school, for in the midst of all our sin and
sorrow, we had attended regularly to a
Sunday school.
	The next day Linny was ill: and my
father and mother were sober. Poor Lin-
ny’s sickness increased upon her day after
day. One day she called us all, around her
bed, and told us she knew she was going
to die. “For surely” she said “that
beautiful star was open to me last night,and
saw the angels.” And I verily believe
she thought she did.
	My father and mother now became deep-
ly concerned about Linny, they broke off—
their drunken habits but Linny died point-
ing them to the cross, and expressing a
hope of meeting us all in heaven.
	About this time my father and mother
signed the temperance pledge, and faithfully
they kept their covenant.
	But new trials awaited us, my father’s
constitution was broken, and the miscon-
duct of one of his sons, nearly broke his
heart. In much affliction he toiled on,
but could only earn a scanty pittance. For
alas! who in London will employ a man
that has not strength to do a full day’s work.
	My brother John remained at home, but
Thomas was gone we knew not where.
John was a good lad, and much of our lit-
tle leisure was spent together, at the window
often talking of Linny and the star, until
indeed, we became almost superstitious.
	But our dear parents were more affection-
ate to each other now than they had been
for years and we were leading the lives of
humble penitents, conversing together often
on the love and mercy of God, and our
faith in the atonement.
	But the time of our great tronble came,
our father died; in the faith of the gospel
doubtless, so far as he understood it. And
my mother, my brother and my self went
into service; I obtained a place in the
country. Here I began life anew, with
new hopes, new joys, and new and severer
trials; in my new place I found I had much
to learn. And some people round, while
professing great friendship, were more ready
to teach evil than good.
	There was a man in my master’s employ-
ment lucky for me, (wise people said) he
was neither young nor handsome but he


persisted in paying his addresses to me, and
not supposing him to be guilty of flattery
or deception, I accepted his company some-
times in a walk. One night, when passing
a lonely spot, he made a proposal to me
that I knew was very wrong. And I felt
so indignant, and even surprised and
ashamed that I did not answer; whereupon
he proceeded to violence and a severe
struggle ensued. I resisted with all my
might, and pleaded with the man, begging
him in mercy to desist, but in vain. Then
as I felt my strength failing me, I prayed
to God; When in the vision of my mind
the star opened and a young man approach-
ed, coming to my help. Suddenly I ex-
claimed, “Look! look! who’s that? where-
upon the man, supposing some one was in-
deed coming, ran away in fear. I kneeled
down, and with a girlish heart gave thanks
to God; then walked home alone in safety.
	My mind now became filled with many
and serious thoughts. I saw now how it
was that so many modest and guileless young
women, were seduced and ruined, what a
narrow escape I had had, and how the
heavens had been opened as it were to my
help. And I resolved that I would sooner
die, than I would yield to any inhuman
monster, that sought to gratify his lust at
the expense of woman’s virtue. And that
too often they will do, under the strongest
pretension of the purest love. For this base
man had been very civil and obliging to
me; and had professed to love me with all
his heart, yet upon the slightest danger to
himself, he ran away and left me, and that
in a lonely place, on a dark night.
	I now became more than ever reconciled
to my lot as a servant, paid more attention
than ever to my duties, and had less desire
than ever to be gadding about.
	About this time my thoughts were often
stirred within me, concerning the way of
salvation. Sabbath after Sabbath, did I
attend Church. Joined in the formal prayers,
heard the minister preach, but my mind
was neither enlightened nor comforted. So
prayed in all humility and earnestness to
the Lord, the Almighty God, to guide me
into His knowledge.
	One night I had the following dream,
and of what should I dream but the star.
I dreamed that I was borne away in space,
how, and by whom, I could not tell; but
soared to my favorite star, and as I
approached the ineffable glory, the star
opened, and I entered its hallowed portals.
There I was met by the same young man
that I had seen in my vision before; and
he pointed out to me the beauties and
glories of the place and the exceedingly
pleasing appearance and happy condition of
the people. He told me that if I would
be true to the light of the star of truth,
and follow the divine guidance for which I
had been praying, that I should one day
come there again, be one of that heavenly
order and share their joys.
	Then he brought me down to earth, and
parting said, “If in any turning point of
danger or doubt in your eventful life to
come you can but behold, in the vision of
your mind, the opening star you may
advance.”
	One day, not long thereafter, I saw a
man sitting on a stile near the house; and
my attention was irresistibly drawn to him,
I knew not why. He appeared to me like
one who was tired and hungry, and I felt
a wish to relieve him. My master and
mistress were both kind hearted and good to
the poor. Presently the man approached

[Column 2]
the honse, and as I met him at the door, 
I said to him, “I wanted you to come, for I
fancied you were hungry, and I have food
that I can give you.”
	Thank you young woman, said the man,
but I must first do the will of Him that
sent me. I perceive, said he, that you are
one of the daughters of Israel; and to such
am I sent, even to. the lost sheep of the
house of Israel, to tell them the way of
salvation.
	While he was talking to me the vision of
my mind seemed lit up by the light of
eternity, and again the star opened, and I
regarded the poor wayfaring man as a
messenger from heaven. The more I
heard, the more I believed, and the more I
longed to obey, and inherit the blessing of
the glorious gospel.
	In short, I believed all he told me, cast
in my lot with the persecuted people of
God. Believing in Apostles and Prophets,
the gospel of salvation by Jesus Christ,
faith, repentance, and baptism for the re-
mission of sins, and the gift of the holy
ghost by the laying on of hands. And I
began more than ever to delight in honesty,
integrity, truth and virtue, and every thing
of good report; and I labored and prayed
continually, that I might keep the com-
mandments, and be saved in the kingdom
of God.
	I now had new motives for exertion, and
patient toil; for I had heard of a better
land, even the land of Zion. And every-
thing, even the star of my destiny seemed
directing me to it.
	So I continued in my place three years
after this, during which time I had more
than one offer of marriage, but upon neither
of these did the star open, and I refused.
	By the end of that time I had saved
money enough, and proceeded on my way
to the land of Zion, under the good star of
my destiny, and kind heaven’s approval.
	I have no time, nor inclination, to relate,
here all the taunts and persecution I had to
endure on account of my faith in, and
obedience to the gospel. Suffice it to say,
the star of my destiny was over me, and I
had full faith and confidence in Him who
rules the stars.
	Soon after I joined the Church I wrote a
long and loving letter to my mother, but
she supposing herself to be a good Chris-
tian,it seemed natural to suppose that I must
have been deluded, and she wrote to the
effect that she must renounce me as a
daughter, unless I renounced my faith.
	This letter from my mother whom I
loved so much, gave me great affliction.
For surely the spirit of the Lord did not
dictate such a course. I wrote again loving
as before, and if I felt one bitter thought I
did not express it, but she never wrote to
me after until she heard I was leaving the
country.
	I was standing on board ship ready for
departure, in the midst of a company of
Saints, we had just been singing one of the
songs of Zion, when I saw my dear mother
stepping on to the deck. The next moment
was locked in her embrace. My mother
tried hard to persuade me to return with
her; and as I felt the affectionate pressure
of her maternal embrace, and fondly looked
upon her aged and careworn countenance,
my bosom yearned over her, and my heart-
strings seemed to cling around her more
than ever. But all these strong ties of
nature, had to be sundered, for I could not
persuade my mother to accompany me;
though the money she brought for my

[Column 3]
ransom, as she called it, might have paid
her passage, over. But truly do I now
know what it is, to forsake my dearest
relative for the sake of the kingdom of
God.
	This parting with my mother was the
most painful part of my life. My brother
Thomas had left the country and had not
since been heard of. John had married,
and settled in a distant country. And here
was I, leaving my poor aged mother alone
and almost helpless in the world. And
how could I resist the conviction that I
ought to stay with her, as long as she lived,
aud comfort her. And yet, over and above
all this, there was the great command of
Jehovah, “Come out of her O my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and
that ye receive not of her plagues.”
	Up to this time I had had no association
with any congregation of saints. And now
I soon found opportunity of making my-
self useful. But I was beginning to take
offence at the conduct of some, when I
heard a kind voice near me saying, "Are
you perfect sister?” And turning I saw—
but much improved in appearance—the
poor wayfaring man that three years before
I had seen sitting upon the stile, and whom
I had relieved with a morsel of bread, and
from whom I had received in return the
words of eternal life; and now he taught
me to understand myself, and my relation-
ship to those around me, that I must not
look for perfection here but, said he, “these
are the poor and despised, and in some cases
the most unlearned and down trodden of
poor fallen humanity; and these, said he,
let us be willing to hope are all trying to
become saints of God in very deed.”
	By the daily exercise of faith in Him,
who holds the winds in His fiat (as it were)
and the waves in the hollow of his hand, we
got over the sea in safety; and traversed
our great overland journey of nearly two
thousand miles of toil and trial—suffice it to
say we had trials by sea and by land; but
we had gained an experience that was bet-
ter to us than gold.
	When we had reached that part of the
way where we obtained the first view of our
mountain home, the joy of our hearts was
beyond compare. Again was the vision of
my mind lifted up as before, and I indulged
in the fancy, that the star opened and again
saw a young man coming toward me, bnt
this time that part of the sight was more
than a passing vision, it was a reality and
so soon to pass away, it was the poor way-
faring man that I had once relieved with a
morsel of bread.
	There we were, comparative strangers to
each other in a strange land among
strangers, and yet not among strangers but
brethren. And this we felt in our hearts
and souls to be indeed the case. But here
we stood at the altar of God, plighting our
vows to each other of eternal love and
fiidelity, without money, or property, but
with our strong hands and willing hearts,
to assist each other in forcing from the
elements of this desert land, the necessities
and comforts of life! And co-working to-
gether with all the saints, in the building
up of the kingdom of God.
	My husband was one of the traveling
Elders who had been called, in England, to
preach the gospel; so that like me, he had
not been to Zion before. I heard him give
some account of his labors, and a thrill of
holy joy ran through my soul, as I heard
the Prophet say “well done.”
	(continued on page 94.)


[Column 1]
