[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: A HISTORIC HOUSE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

﻿A HISTORIC HOUSE.
HOUSES have histories as well as in-
dividuals, and some of them pass through
a variety of singular experiences also like
their masters and mistresses, which written
up after the manner of Dickens for instance
might be very interesting to read even in
this day rich with incidents worth nothing.
To tell the various scenes that have been
enacted in many old habitations would be
to go over the events of many lives, and
might not be entertaining to those connected
therewith.
Whether notable or not the house now
occupied by the writer, is certainly histori
cal in many ways. Old and gray and
weather-beaten, built in the very earliest
time of the settlement of this great City,
and by its founder Brigham Young. Oc-
cupied first by members of his family, and
considered one of the homes of this great
leader and pioneer, whom Edward Tul-
lidge has designated as an empire builder.
The homes of all truly great men are in
a sense historic and of national value, and
Brigham Young’s name grows more and
more illustrious the world over as the
years roll by. At an early period in the
history of the house Daniel H. Wells came
to dwell in it, and here during his residence
therein were transacted many things per-
taining to the growth and advancement of 
public interests, pertaining to the Church
and the Territory, civil, political and mili-
tary as well as things spiritrual.
In the prime of his life, it may well be
said, Daniel H. Wells took up his abode in
the house as it originally stood—an adobe
structure of four rooms, afterwards adding
two more, larger than the others, remark-
ably spacious for those days. Several of
the Wells’ children (some of them now
quite widely known) were born here, and
many came to ask counsel and to hold com-
munication with its genial master. Meet-
ings of men who were taking up the cares
and responsibilities of a new government
were held in this room—for the last seven
years known as the little office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and deliberations

[Column 2]
and conclusions were arrived at, that had
weight with the community.
The old stone wall with its massive pil-
lars gives a sort of feudal dignity to the
place, and thousands of strangers, stop and
wonder, and some admire the tone and
style this superb, though homely, structure,
antique in its appearance, lends to the long
low dwelling it protects and shelters behind
its gates.
Leaving that past, the history of which
has been recorded in the History of Utah
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, we may with all
due propriety mention more recent matters 
pertaining to the old home known for forty
years as the Wells’ House.
There are in all communities leading wo-
men citizens as well as men, and in this
particular house perhaps as many of these
have gathered from time to time as in any
one house in Utah.
To some this may seem a little exagger-
ated but the facts will we are sure verify the
statement.
Eliza R. Snow, the President of the
Relief Society, the largest organization of
women, this side the Rocky Mountains
was a regular visitor here as long as she
lived and here in this very room most of
the business pertaining to the conducting
of the Society in all its several Stakes and
branches, not only in Utah but throughout
the world has been deliberated upon and
decided. Many thousands of letters per-
taining to this charitable organization have
been written here at this same desk, and
from here sent abroad to nearly all parts of
the civilized world.
Zina D. H. Young who succeeded the
former President, lias made this place her
headquarters in the same way, and still
continues to do so.
Meetings of several different organizations
have been held here regularly or at intervals,
where much has been planned relating to
the interests of women and their intellectual
and spiritual development. The preliminary
gatherings for the work of organizing
some quite important associations have been
held in this house, and credentials prepared
for those who have gone as delegates to
represent the respective associations at
headquarters in Washington and other
places East and West. All the preparatory
work for the Woman Suffrage Association
of Utah Territory, the selection of officers
and their appointments, the Constitution
and By-laws was done here, previous to
the public meeting held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Inst’n. which represents con-
siderable capital and is managed entirely by
women was originated and held its earlier and
afterwards regular Board Meetings here for
some time.
The Utah Woman’s Press Club was or-
ganized and the Constitution formed here,
and holds its regular meetings in this same

[Column 3]
house. Without alluding to the improve-
ment made and the work done by this club
of writers, we can assuredly say it has been
a great pleasure to meet from time to time,
these bright intellectual women whose con-
stant effort is the advancement in the broad-
er paths and fields of the higher education
of the world of mankind including in its
largest sense womankind.
And now we come to the latest
organization effected here of which no
previous mention has been made in the
columns of our paper, The Reaper’s Club.
This is really a literary club of women, who
are past school or university life, but who
wish to keep pace with the progress being
made nowadays, in the great variety of
studies,such as history, ancient and modern,
current literature in all its forms and phases,
and whose interest in the intellectual and
moral development of the world is such as
stimulates them to make every effort pos-
sible for general enlightenment, moral,
spiritual and physical growth. The club
is limited to thirty members beside five
honorary members the topics so far have
been Queen Isabella, Columbus, Ferdinand,
The Reformation, Savonarola. Among the
things which make this an interesting house
old as it is and queer as it seems compared
with the modern cottages, is the great num-
ber of celebrated people, local travelers,
tourists who have made visits within its
time-honored walls, or calls long or short
at different periods since it was built.
In the palmy days of the early pioneers,
Squire Wells (as he was generally designat-
ed) did a great deal of entertaining; and
though those were the days of scarcity and
high prices, he was famous even then, for
his hospitality. Many dinners and evening
parties were given here to the brethren and
sisters, and upon occasions to men who
were occupied in official positions civil and
military.
Probably there are not one of the Apostles
of this or former times or those in authority
in this Church who have not been entertain-
ed at some one of these social gatherings in
this house, besides many hundreds of others;
not to speak of the many marriages
solemnized here, and other happy occasions;
and indeed of even the deaths of some
people of note, which are known to have
taken place in this old house.
Referring to celebrated people, who have
found welcome in this old house during our
sojourn therein, we may be excused perhaps
in mentioning foreigners, authors, editors
and people entitled to newspaper notoriety.
Among the many not literary have been
distinguished men in Church and state
throughout Christendom, also Barons, Dukes
and Military men, Duchesses, Countesses,
Dowager Countesses and many poets,
authors, lecturers, doctors and newspaper men
and women of more or less celebrity; besides
the people who have neither rank or title,
but simply want to see and hear.


[Column 1]
	People who have beeu attracted here 
because of this and that; some who have
had letters of introduction from those whom
we had met elsewhere or who had called
before, and some who felt drawn to the
place because of its quaint appearance and
surroundings, or from idle curiosity, or a
desire to know about the peculiar doctrines
of our faith, or were interested in questions
pertaining to woman’s advancement, en-
franchisement and higher education.
	Lastly the romance of this old place is
greatly enhanced by the many poems and
stories written here, and which perchance
were better from the very glamour, that
lingers round the place made sacred by so
many tender associations and recollections
of the past. In the great future which
awaits Utah, these memories may find place,
and the past as it reaches farther and farther
from view grow more rosy-hued and the
children of that generation look back with
a degree of pride and reverence on what was
written behind these “historic walls.” If
there was no sentiment in the world there
would be no poetry,and much of the history
of the heart as well as of the people would
be lost to mankind. We all like to know
not only what transpired in the past but the
feelings, affections and sentiments of those
who took part in the affairs of the times in
which they lived and flourished.
it seems a great pity that such houses
should be torn down, or to destroy the ro-
mance, that clings to these old primitive,
colonial homes of the early settlers who
distinguished themselves in the establish-
ment of the colonies and whose habitations 
are almost a part of their identity.
	But so it is and must necessarily be, the
old must give place to the new, and the
world move onward as the years roll by.
	In the days which we recall when this old
house was new and we were young, life
was quite different from that of the present
time. There were no regular mails, no
daily papers, few women’s papers here or
elsewhere, everything was very poor and
narrow and limited comparatively; women
did not only their own house-work, but
made soap and candles, spun and wove, did
their own knitting, dress-making and milli-
nery, but taught the children and helped in
all sorts of ways. We do not care to go 
back to those days, nor do we wish to see
people live in the old style, but we do hope
some of the old landmarks may be pre-
served to mark the days that are departed,
and to tell the tale of the early Pilgrims
who laid the foundation of this great and
flourishing city.
	Many are the pleasant associations con-
nected with this old house in the mind and
heart of the writer. Memories of loved
ones whose familiar forms and faces, seem
to haunt the rooms where they were wont to
linger and gladden with their sweet pres-
ence. That delightful past lives in its
richness still, and sweetens the lonely

[Column 2]
present with the fragrance of its per-
fume.
"Long, long be my heart with such memories 
     filled!
Like the vase in which roses have once been 
       distilled:
You may break, you may ruin the vase if you will,
But the scent of the roses will hang round it
      still."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
