VOL. 22.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1894.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS:
	Personal Impressions of Art at the Columbian
Exposition—Edahoo. Special Honors. U. W.
P. C.—Gladys Woodmansee. Letter from Card-
ston—Nellie Hinman. A Genuine Surprise—
Communicated. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting
—L. D. Alder. A Woman’s Assembly. Wo-
man’s Suffrage Column—Utah W. S. A., S. L. W.
S. A., and Beaver W. S. A. The Reconstruction
of the Government. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notes. Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young.
	POETRY.—My Valentine—Alofa. Midnight
Reverie—L. M. Hewlings. Affectionately In-
scribed to my Dear Friend S. T. in N. Y.—Nellie.


MY VALENTINE.

AH, hurry away my valentine
Nor stop 'till you reach the love of mine 
Whose image floats before my eyes
And seems an angel from the skies. 
Yes, go to her and my love proclaim
My love that will ever be the same,
Through the storms that rage and the suns that
	shine
She will be forever the love of mine
Her hair once golden is silvered now, 
And furrows are traced o’er her noble brow;
While on her cheeks that were once so round
The rosy tint is no longer found.
Her form is perhaps a little bent, 
Though ’twas once admired where’er she went;
Her hands are a trifle hardened too,
She says by labor, I fear 'tis true;
And by some who knew her it has been said
She has lost the lightness of her tread; 
Yet naught of her worth has been lost to me,
She is still my love and will ever be.
Her eyes retain the same love-light
As when first I knew them so grandly bright;
Her voice, her touch have the same sweet powers
To soothe and calm life’s troubled hours;
The smile she wears, be it e’er so faint,
Is such as no earthly hand can paint;
And her loving heart is as warm and true
As the mind of mortal ever knew.
Be there aught of worth she can do for me,
She will never question how hard it be;
Nor will ever think her toil unpaid,
Nor count the sacrifices made,
If only my love in return I give—
If only a worthy life I live.
She has gone to the very gates of Death
Through her love for me, and with gasping breath
Has returned to look upon me and smile,
As though pain had been pleasure all the while.
Ah, why should not my love endure?
Why confidence be insecure,
Reposed in one so true and good,
In the noblest sphere of womanhood?
To my mother dear is my valentine,
For my mother dear is this love of mine.
	ALOFA.
Samoa, Jan. 23rd, 1894.


"A BOARD of five ladies has been ap-
pointed by the directors of the Cotton
States International Exposition at Atlanta,
Ga., and the ladies have begun the pre-
liminary work for the Woman's Building
and exhibit."


[Column 1]
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS OF ART
AT THE COLUMBIAN
EXPOSITION.

	TRUE art is creation and that which sug-
gests the Creator's work in its perfection has
a nearness to Heaven in its enjoyment.
	It was said by Michael Angelo that "the
true mission of art was to raise the soul
from earth to Heaven." Surely these 
words were exemplified at the World's 
Columbian Exposition of 1893. Never was
fairer picture presented to wondering gaze,
than that of the White City in its complete-
ness.
	I remember as a young girl, having a
very vivid dream; pictured in the Western
sky, above the blossoming orchard of my
childhood's home, was what I concieved to
be the New Jerusalem. The buildings
seemed to be constructed of marble, of that
soft tone of white, called ivory; and each
tower and cornice and pinnacle, were edged
with gold, as though a setting sun, which
seemed to flood the air as with a golden
mist, had touched them with its Midas
finger. The city sat upon the shores of a 
shimmering blue sea, and the streets were
mostly water-ways of "Pure gold, like un-
to clear glass." I recall to mind how on
awakening in the morning I ran eagerly to
the door and shading my eyes with my
hands, gazed out above the blossoms of
peach and apple trees, to the bright blue
sky, seeking in vain for a trace of the
night's beauteous vision. Never could I
forget the glory of those classic columns and
slender, graceful pinnacles, and often have
I wished for the art which could transfer to
canvass a faint idea of its most wondrous
loveliness. One day last Summer from the
upper deck of the steamer "Whaleback"
that beauteous vision burst again upon my
enraptured gaze. There were the white
walls of my templed city; there the shim-
mering sea turned all to blue and gold by
the lingering rays of the "God of Day,"
who lovingly touched each tower and top,
that art had left ungilded: There the broad
streets and water-ways the glorious groups
of statuary—the classic pillars and flowery
tracery of gothic windows—the feathery
palms, the gushing fountains, the fragrance
of rarest blossoms, the city in its beauty and
completeness; and the blue waters girdling
and intersecting it: my dream at last a
glorious reality! And I a favored one, to
wander mid its beauties and wonders. In-
voluntarily I loosened the lace about my 
throat, for my emotions gave me a feeling
of rapture almost to suffocation, flooding
my soul with joy unspeakable. Many
times I saw the White City from other
vantage ground, but never again with those
sensations: From all other points of view,
while it was beautiful, it did not give me
the same exquisite picture, which was a 
memory realized.
	I am leading up to my subject slowly,
even as I traversed with lingering feet the
way, to where already I saw the beautiful
"Martiny" statue of "Fame," crowning 
the central dome of that magnificent

[Column 2]
Palace of Art. The figure is airy, beauti-
ful; and seems almost to take wing: The
drapery, wind-blown closely to the figure,
accentuating its exquisite contours. A 
noble flight of steps flanked by sculptured
lions leads you to the portal, overshadowed
by graceful porticos, supported on
Corinthian columns. As  I entered the
main hall or rotunda, a scene of bewilder-
ing beauty, of graceful and noble art, in
bronze and marble, met my gaze; and
starting tears obscured for a moment the
scene. I seemed unable to regain myself;
I was in an enchanted world: The people
who thronged the hall were as nothing. I 
stood as if alone amid moving mass.
Through door-ways I caught glimpses of
wondrous tints and dreams of color from
almost breathing canvases.
	But almost the first work that caught by
eyes and there they lingered oft and lov-
ingly, was the bronze group of "Dickens
and Little Nell." It was a noble poem in
bronze, easily read by those who are
familiar with the works of the wondrous
writer, who created the characters of
"Nell" and "Florence Dombey," "Little
Joe" and the host of others. Standing at
Dickens knee, Nell looks lovingly up to
the master as though saying again, "God
bless him, God bless us both."
	I think I first admire the beauty and
per[---]t proportions of an object th[-]n the
power exemplified in the mental and
physical training required to bring it to so
perfect a state of excellence; yet I do not
pretend to know its excellence, only the 
artist whose many trials have wrought its
perfectness, can know that. I can only
judge of that excellence by the faithfulness
of its resemblance and the story written in
its lines and contours.
	How can one look upon the marvelous
beauty of the famous "Dore" vase, with-
out a feeling of awe, for the physical and
mental power employed to bring such per-
fection of form and beauty into shape,
where-with to delight your sense of the
beautiful. The bewildering myriad of
flowers and forms, all bearing to the one
object, the decoration and embellishment of
the original classic shape, and the beautiful
thought underlying the whole. Six months
were required to model it in clay, how many
to design it I know not; but surely it is a 
"thing of beauty," and let us hope it will
"be a joy forever." The "Dore" vase is
not, however, in the Art Palace but in the
French Department of the Liberal Arts
Building, where I also found Susse Freres,
"Defence Of The Flag," an intensely ef-
fective group in bronze; soldiers surround-
ing the colors; fourteen figures and one
cannon, and fallen horse, grouped naturally
and artistically with fine effect of power, 
and the heroic purpose, to die rather than
relinquish their flag.
	Thomas Ball's bronze statuette of "Paul
Revere" is one of the gems in the rotunda
of the Art Palace. The artist has caught
the very motion of the horse, and the horse 
seems to have caught the inspiration of the
man upon his back, who glows and radiates


[Column 1]
liberty, from the foot in stirrup to the hand
on rein, and glint of the fearless eye.
	“The Signal of Peace,” a bronze
equestrienne statue, was full of dignity and
such repose and grace, as comes from no
drawing room training. A Sioux warrior
on his pony; the Indian nude save for moc-
casins and the war feathers crowning his
head and falling in a straight line down his
back, the right hand grasping his spear is
held up as the signal of peace, the left holds
the horse hair rope fastened to the lower
jaw of the pony. The piece as a whole
struck me with its dignity and naturalness,
as being a truthful portraiture of a race fast
dying out. The modelling was perfect;
the expression and pose of both rider and
pony excellent.
	It will, hereafter be one of the adorn-
ments of the beautiful “Lincoln Park,” at
Chicago having been presented to the park
commissioners by Judge Lambert Tree—
who acquired the ownership of it during
the “Fair.”
	The bronze collosal statue of “Wahing-
ton,” another of Thomas Ball’s pieces;
Bartlett’s “Ghost Dance,” a plaster study
of nude Indians, strong and fine; a marble
“Lady Godiva,” by Caroline Brooks, was
an exquisite thing. Daniel French’s,
“The Angel of Death and the Sculptor”
tells a great truth, and one could not pass it
easily. “Pereat,” a group of two figures
in marble, very beautiful in pose and exe-
cution, especially in effect of drapery; but
I could not read the story the marble had to
tell. A bronze “Ishmael” as he strings his
bow, which is exceedingly well posed and
very effective: “Michael Angelo,” as the
boy of thirteen, with leather apron over
elaborate fifteenth century costume, mallet
in hand, chiseling a head in marble, the
stamp of genius, even at that age, plainly
seen upon his face. “The Angel of the
Resurrection,” “A Monk Reading,”
“Pompeian Water Girl,” graceful and
artistic; “Love knows no Caste,” a
beautiful drawing-room group and a pretty
tale of love, in marble; “Romeo and
Juliet,” that ever interesting tale of lovers.
This represents the awakening Juliet to
find her lover dead at her side. Dressler’s
“Girl Trying on her Sandal,” this subject
I found in both marble and oil. The
former I liked best, the position was so
natural and the chiselling of hand and foot
and sandal and string, exquisite.
Houdon’s “Voltaire,” representing him as
an old man seated in an armchair, such a
wide awake old man he was too, so sharp
and crafty looking, but dignified withal, a
very striking piece. “Diana” with bow,
beautifully posed. “A Fish Rarely To Be
Met With” was a striking group, represent-
ing a fisherman, and mermaid caught in
his net, curiosity and fear on her face,
astonishmeut on his. “Domestic Industry”
in oak wood, a woman with distaff
beautifully carved, so fine and soft in grain
and color, it looked like carved ivory.
	The “Sage of Concord” tells us “to
listen to the critics when our hearts are
touched by genius. “It was not painted
for them but for you, and such as had eyes
capable of being touched by simplicity and
lofty emotions.” To be sure the critics
ha[-]e their uses, but, knowing too much
they suffer the usual penalty of omniscience
“ennui.”
	 My first impressions were the harmonious
whole, of form and color, and it was actual
work to “get down” to study (pardon the
phrase) of separate schools or pictures.

[Column 2] 
	Of the nearly three thousand paintings
exhibited by the United States alone. where
shall I begin with my impressions. I am
frightened at the magnitude of the subject
How will it be possible to condense it. I
may have the effect that “Grant had on
Hopkins” and make you, who were not at
the Fair, glad you were’nt, and not anxious
to go to the next; for one must grow en-
thusiastic or cynical over what they saw,
and I prefer to be classed with the former,
even though I weary you. To begin, we
Americans ought to be justly proud that we
lead the World in water color painting, aud
we have such exquisite specimens as Abbey’s
“Measure for Measure,” Cortello’s “Gates
of Justice, Cairo,” “In the Harbor,” sun-
light effect, “Fields in Early Spring,”
“Roman Maiden” and the “Sea Witch,” a
collection of over two hundred, in fact, to
take your choice from. When we think of
the masterly stroke that must make a per-
fect picture in water color, we must feel
proud of this collection. In oil, one can
paint over and mark out; in water color,
if one false stroke is made, it must stay.
	It is said and truly I think, that
American art is refined, healthy and genuine,
though we find some canvases that I
question as such; notably “The Flagellants”
by Marr, which one could not easily pass,
yet it created in me a feeling of horror and
repulsion; that fanaticism could ever have
reached the point, where self inflicted tor-
ture could be construed into religion, much
less Christianity; or that the human heart
could conceive the cruelty, of making a
young, lovely and devoted daughter, drink
human blood, to save a dear father’s life,
as pictured by Julian Story in “Mlle. De
Sombruiell” I question whether it is
worth so many feet of canvas and waste of
colors to depict such horrors for the public
gaze. No matter how true the episode, how
faultless the drawing and grouping, nor
rich the coloring: the beauty or truth of
these are lost in the horror and disgust for
the idea portrayed, and I turn with relief
and gaze with delight on such gems as
Blashfield’s “Christmas Bells.”
	There is a power and breeziness about
his work that is most inspiring and refresh-
ing; and he has fairly caught the true
principle of art, which is not to copy or
minutely imitate nature, but to render the
impression and suggest its characteristics.
“Christmas Bells” is such a pure, artistical-
ly refined, picture; it impresses you with its
joyousness. You don’t want to dissect it,
nor think how it is painted; only to gaze
and enjoy its completeness. The work is so
well done you feel quite as though it could
have been no work to paint it; but that the
thought or inspiration was breathed upon
the canvas and it grew as the flowers grow.
There is no “Impressionism” here. The
colors are so beautifully blended in the
drapery and wings of the angels, as to
suggest the faintest rainbow hues, with the
glow of early dawn upon them. Light!
dainty, delicious light! The figures sway-
ing with the bells seem almost to swing out-
side the frame; and the song they sing to
me—is:
		“Ring out the old, ring in the new,
		Ring out the false, ring in the true.”
	The picture is perfect in detail, nothing
about it is slighted; from the startled
doves to the green bronze bells all is in
unison with the scheme of color. It is said
of Blashfield that he may one day take the
place left vacant by Dore, so great is his

[Column 3]
promise. Another of his, “The Angel
With the Flaming Sword” is a wonderful
picture. The artist must have approached
his subject with a truly devout spirit. The
figure seems to stand as though it were
adamant, with a calm majesty, the fixed
purpose, written in every line. A faithful
servant executing the just sentence of the
Master, yet with sorrow that it was neces-
sary; and the mixture of sorrow and
justice on his face, produces a picture of rare
religious feeling. The effect of light
radiating from the flaming sword is wonder-
fully good. The wings have the inter-
mingled peacock hues, which, with the blue
and orange drapery, relieve what would
otherwise be a sombre effect.
	A pretty landscape by Marr called
"Summer Afternoon" is a fine example of
sunlight flickering through the leaves of
trees.
	“The Celestial Choir,” another of those
angelic pictures I delight in, by J. H. Witt.
Five angels flying toward you in a sky of
semi-transparent blue, the foremost one
with widespread arms and wings which
catch the light, seem to be singing that
hymn “Glory to God in the Highest,” the
other angels following with lutes and
golden trumpets. The color tone, that 
white light that gives the effect of airy
lightness. The innocent joy on the faces
seems to pervade the picture. I could but 
wonder how the artist caught the perfect
poise of the flying figures, they were so
exquisitely graceful.
	One more and I must hasten on to other
departments. Moran’s “Grand Canyon of
the Yellowstone.” This artist gives us
the grand scenery of our own country in so
graphic and beautiful a light, as to carry us
to the spot. You feel that it is nature; and
in his portrayal of height and depth, he
gives you almost the sense of awe you feel
in the presence of nature itself.
	In the Austrian department, I found an
exquisite little statuette “Old Vienna
Waltz.” The poise of the couple, just on
the very point of turning in the dreamy
waltz; the costumes those of 1830, wrought
with such care and skill, not even the pat-
tern of lace ruffle on the lady’s gown
omitted. In height it was not more than
nine inches.
	Otto Jarl’s “Creeping Tiger” was
wonderfully realistic. There were many
noble pictures in the Austrian department
that impressed me, but I only mention one
or two. “The Roman Ruins in
Schoenbrunn,” lent by his Majesty the
Emperor, is magnificent in conception,
perspective and detail; Rudolph Bacher’s
“Mater Dolorosa,” also lent by the
Emperor; This was the picture that touched
my heart most deeply. The Holy Mother
is seated with the crown of thorns lying in
her lap, her finger and thumb pressing the
sharp points, that wounded her baby’s
brow; for always that is the mother’s 
thought, when her loved one is taken; it
may be a man or woman grown; but to the
bereft mother it is always “My baby, my
baby, that I have carried under my heart.”
There are no tears in the eyes of this
“mourning mother,”and she gazes straight
out and far away, with such a look of dumb
agony, so real, so terrible in its intensity,
that my own heart was sore for her sorrow.
I do not recall the coloring, but remember
St. John the Beloved stands on her left,
his hand reached out touching her arm, 
with a look on his face as tho’ he fain
would comfort her, yet knows he cannot;


one of the Mary’s is on her right, her hand
on the Virgin’s shoulder, and she leans
yearningly over her; but it was on the
mourning mother’s face that all my interest
centered. I had no thought as to whether
the coloring or grouping were good, or if
the drawing were faultless, but I knew that
the hand which had given to the world that
divinelv sorrowful countenance, was the
hand of a master, and he was acquainted
with grief.
EDAHOO.
[To be Continued.]


98 			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 					99


For the Exponent.
	MIDNIGHT REVERIE.

MIDNIGHT has fallen over the plain,
	And again I roam in fancy free,
Heedless of dangers lurking round,
	Of ghastly sights, or of startling sounds,
While invisible, I hear and see.

There are wounded on the battle field,
	And pallid forms that may nevermore
Arouse to the calls of war or peace;
	For stern death hath given swift release,
And all earthly strife with them is o’er,

And over life’s battle-fields I see,
	Weary one's wandering on its way,
Oft tempest-tossed amid unseen foes,
	And still seeking vainly for repose,
While allured to combat’s fiercest fray.

I soar over graves of buried hopes,
	Where ever gloomiest shadows fall,
Where wail of grief, as of ocean’s swell,
	Sends mournful requiem’s thrilling knell,
That’s ever doomed to surround them all.

Aye, gaunt wretchedness, and haggard want,
	Pale forms of misery and of woe,
Laborer’s now unemployed, that roam
	’Till in desperations pathways thrown,
Hither and thither, they drifting go!

In mount and glen, and in depths below,
	Occult and hidden are treasures vast;
Awaiting word from “powers that be,”
	To bring forth-develop, from earth and sea,
Wondrous treasures that all time will last.

Boundless the riches earth holds in store; 
	Yet I see her children crying for bread;
Industry’s halls closed down to the poor,
	Whirl of its wheels heard not as of yore,
Beggary and want now reign instead.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.


AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED TO MY
DEAR FRIEND S. T. IN N. Y.

'TWAS only a newspaper handed to me, 
From our long-time Eastern home,
Yet I felt such a vague forboding,
That I dreaded its pages to turn,
But my eyes shed tears, my heart found vent,
As I read these words that to me were sent.

Died, in the sixteenth year of her age,
Mary H., the daughter beloved,
Her sweet disposition had won many friends
’Mong the circle in which she had moved,
Who with grief-stricken parents and sisters meet,
To place o’er the dead, floral offerings sweet.

That was all, but my heart knew more than this,
Knew, how a mother bending low
O’er the suffering couch of her dying child,
Must have shed the tears of bitterest woe,
As she saw day by day in the quick’ning breath
That her child was nearing the gates of death.

And methinks I hear the prayer that she prayed, 
As in anguish her soul bowed low,
O! Father if Thou canst, remove this cup,


O! how shall I drink of this woe?
But the answer came from an all-wise God,
“I love thee, I love thee, pass under the rod.”

So Mary our darling passed sweetly away, 
To the beautiful home beyond;
Her spirit so pure could no longer stay,
In its earthly prison-house bound,
So freed by death it sped gladly away,
To soar aloft in eternal day.

O, heaven-born spirit, thy work here is done—
Thy sweet mission on earth is o’er;
Our love could not hold thee, thy spirit pined
For its freedom, on yonder shore;
Thy journey was short, but Father in love
Safely garnered our opening flower above.

O! Mother thy treasure in Heaven is placed,
That thither thy soul may be led;
O! sweet blessed plan the Lord has revealed,
By which we can claim our own dead,
As jewels to brighten the crown that is given,
To those who are meet for the Kingdom of
Heaven.
	NELLIE.


SPECIAL HONORS.

	MRS. FRACKLETON, President of the
National League of Mineral Painters, who
organized the Salt Lake City China Club
some ten years ago is receiving great honors
at the Exposition. She may well be con-
gratulated at the disposition made of her
pieces.
	The “Viking Brotherhood Cup” which
she modelled from native clays goes to Nor- 
way, the property of Captain Anderson of
the Viking Ship. This is a most unique,
and interesting piece and is like those used
by the old Vikings a thousand years ago
It is tall and delicate in form with a mouth
suggesting the beak of a vessel and the
foot pinched at the back into the form of a
rudder. The handle is a coiled snake,
emblem of eternity. About the top is a
band incised in the old Norse ruins with the
names of gods and heroes. Lower runs
the legend,

	“Slaves cannot drink from me,
		If once their lips receive my wine,
	That moment they are free!
		They drink gods bounty,
		And their shackles fall!”

	On the obverse side are the dates of the
old Norse discoveries—893and—1893!
	It was the old custom before commencing
any great undertaking to have a banquet
and pass the cup from lip to lip, like a
sacramental cup then in consecration to
break it.
	The cup was used by Captain Anderson
and his crew at the great Norse banquet
and will return with him a treasured
souvenir of his warm welcome to Norway.
	The great wine bowl which Mrs.
Frackleton made for the Caravel is already
on its way to Spain and will be placed in
the National Military Museum at Madrid in
company with the old Columbian relics.
It is an immense bowl with great bunches
of grapes and garlands of vine and is sup-
ported upon a standard with three feet.
On it is inscribed the names of the three
vessels of the little fleet. The Nina, Pinta
and Santa Maria also the dates 1492 and
1893.
	One piece remains in America and has
been purchased by the Pennsylvania
Museum of fine arts for their magnificent
collection, these pieces are all of the New
Frackleton Salt Glaze which has created


such a furore and has been heartily endorsed
by the “Associated Artists” of New York
City.
	The beautiful Punch bowl known as the
“Tiffany bowl” has been purchased by a
Russian noble for $500.00 and goes to St.
Petersburg, Russia.
	It is delightful to experience a feeling of
reciprocity and we hail the dawn of that
era in art when American women decorate
for the nobility of Europe—after the many
years that Europeans have decorated their
wares for America.


U. W. P. C.			
	
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual on the
last evening of the month at the residence
of Dr. E. R. Shipp. In the absence of the
President and the Vice President Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen chairman pro
tem. Prayer by Caroline C. R. Wells,
minutes of previous meeting read, and roll
call responded to, with sentiments from
Meredith, Longfellow, Shakespeare, Arnold
and others.
	The names of Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Harriet Y. Badger and Della Y. Harrison
were presented and they were admitted to
membership. The evening program con-
sisted of the following:
	An original New Year’s Poem, entitled
“A Myth of Father Time,” by Mrs.
Dickinson. “Maud Muller” recited by
Nellie C. Taylor. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave
an interesting and graphic description of
her visit to the Poet Whittier’s old home at
Araesbury, also his more modern residence
at Oak Knoll. Told of his kindly reception
of her and the interesting conversation of 
nearly a half day, his views or opinions with
regard to the marriage question—etc. Mrs.
Wells then read the poem “Revel [---]
on which the poet was engaged at the time
of her visit, and which he read to her from
the proof-sheet. 
	Mrs. Margaret A. Caine being called
upon, spoke a few words regarding what
had been said by Mrs. Palmer at the
World’s Fair, the good work which had
been accomplished by Woman’s Press
Clubs in reforming press matter generally.
	Mrs. Harrison requested an explanation
of the object of the club, and was answered
with the desired information by Mrs. E. B.
Wells who stated that we expect to join the
International Federation of Clubs. She
spoke of the advantage of belonging to the
Press Club, over those of belonging to
Literary Clubs, and related some amusing
incidents which occurred during the con-
vention of the Press Women at Washing-
ton in 1891.
	Mrs. Bennion, one of the Vice Presidents
at large, gave an interesting account of
how as a “Stow away,” she had enjoyed a
grand reception of the Press Club at the
World’s Fair, given to all the clubs of the
United States. The great treat it had been
even though but an on looker.
	Miss Gladys Woodmansee favored the
club with a vocal selection, “The Captive
Knight,” and benediction, was pronounced.
	The program for the February meeting
as follows: “The Benefit to be derived
from Woman’s Clubs” Mrs. L. S. Dickinson
The Sixth Sense Mrs. Phebe C. Young.
Music, Mrs. D. Y. Harrison. An article by
Ella W. Hyde. To write up her evening 
with the Press Club. Mrs. A. E. Bennion.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	March 1, 1894.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE bills before the Legislature relating to
women on Boards of Education, Reform
Institutions and Insane asylums passed the
House of Representatives, but was killed in
the Council. No reasons given to the pub-
lic though we have been informed, there
was considerable discussion as to its
constitutionality on account of the word
male in the statutes.
	THE Silk Bill asking for a bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture in the Ter-
ritory has passed both houses, this is 
specifically a woman’s measure, and is for
the benefit and fostering of an industry
which is admirably adapted to the capacity
of women and children, a labor which may
be remunerative to the producer in her
own home; and successfully manipulated
in the reeling and manufacturing might be
remunerative to the Territory.
	THE debate on Woman Suffrage in the
Salt Lake Theatre on the evening of Feb.
18th, between Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and
Dr. Ellen C. Gage drew a crowded house.
Dr. Ferguson who took the affirmative of
the question acquitted herself most
creditably, her discourse being logical and
clear, her language excellent and her man-
ner dignified. Dr. Gage who had the
negative, took up the domestic and senti-
mental side of the question arguing in favor
of protection for women, and brought for-
ward all the pretty and telling pictures of
woman’s femininity, and yet withal we are
told she only made the position of her op-
ponent stronger instead of weakening it.
	THROUGH a suggestion in a letter from
the Beaver W. S. A. we have decided how
to get hold of the ideas of the women of
the W. S. A. throughout the Territory in
regard to a badge for the Utah W. S. A.
It is a subject we had given some thought
previous to receiving this letter, and now we
would ask officially all the Counties to send
in designs, one from each, and then at the
Convention in April when delegates from
different parts are present, a decision upon the
matter may be satisfactorily reached. Our
correspondent says. “It should not be too
dear, lest some poor women could not ob-
tain one, but should be in material, finish
and design of Utah production.” We
would suggest in addition to her suggestion
that silver and silk are both home products.
Let us hear from the woman suffragists on
this subject.

[Column 2]
	ON Tuesday Feb. 27th, a party of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth L. Hyde met
by invitation at the residence of Sister
Susannah Barrows in this City, the oc-
casion being to celebrate the 83rd anniversary
of Sister Hyde’s birthday; her birthday was
the 26th, but as some of her dear friends
were in the Temple on that day, she
postponed the party, that she might have
their company. President Joseph E.
Taylor and wife, Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Sister Jane Harrington (of American Fork)
Sisters Lydia Ann Wells, Lizzie Spencer,
Sarah Young, Bro. and Sister Hennefer and
several others were present and offered con-
gratulations and good wishes. Several
speeches were made all expressing a friendly
feeling for the aged sister, who though
more than fourscore is still in excellent con-
dition of body and mind. Sister Hyde has
had rather an eventful life which we hope
some day to publish a short sketch of; she
crossed the plains in the handcart company
and like Sister Woodmansee, the poetess, is
rather proud of it, as well she may be.
	THERE was a unique social gathering of
friends and relatives of President Wilford
Woodruff and his wife Sister Emma Wood-
ruff in the Salt Lake Temple on Monday,
February 26th, in honor of the 87th an-
niversary of the birth of the veteran
President, who today, March 1st, has
reached the 87th, year of his age, and on
the same day Sister Woodruff her 56th,
year. The occasion was a very happy one
for many reasons and the exercises consist-
ing of short speeches, music, poems and
the like were exceedingly interesting,
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph Smith
were a conspicuous feature. The entire af-
fair including the bountiful feast was a per-
fect success, and the sincere and fervent
congratulations tendered the beloved
President and his amiable wife in the recep-
tion at the close of the exercises, were
cordially and gracefully acknowledged in
the spirit love and blessing felt and ap-
preciated by all who were present. No
man in Israel we believe has been and is
more truly loved and esteemed by the
Latter-day Saints since the days of the
Prophet Joseph than the veteran Apostle,
seer and revelator, President Wilford
Woodruff. Further particulars of the party
will be given hereafter.


[Column 1]
MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
WEDNESDAY January 31st was the an-
niversary of the birthday of Sister Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief Society,
a mother in Israel and one of the most dis-
tinguished women of the age. Sister
Young whose maiden name was Hunting-
ton was born in Watertown, Jefferson Co.,
State of New York Jan. 31st, 1821, and is
therefore seventy three years old. She has
been connected with the Church since she 
was a very young girl and has participated
in the most notable events. Her life has
been full of thrilling incidents from the 
time when she went with her father and 
mother to Missouri. 
	On the day mentioned above a work was
performed for about two hundred of her 
dead relatives in the Logan and Salt Lake
Temples, which was more gratifying to 
Sister Young than any rich or costly present
that could have been given her for her use
or adornment.
	At 3 p. m. her daughters Mrs. Maria Y. 

[Column 2]
Dougall and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie gave
her a party at the residence of Mrs.
Dougall on West Temple, where about 
seventy-five of her dear friends gathered by
invitation in honor of this celebrated wo-
man’s birthday. The large and elegant
parlors were bright and attractively decor-
ated for the occasion, and several bouquets
and vases of flowers were sent in by near
relatives and intimate friends which added
much to the pleasure of the guests. Other
suitable presents were given among them 
one or two books. There were some fine
musical selections but the time was mostly 
given to social enjoyment conversation and friendly greeting. 
	Refreshments were handsomely served 
and of the most delicious quality, and the 
guests did full justice to the feast which
had been so lovingly prepared. Among 
the distinguished people who were present
were President Lorenzo Snow, and wife
Sisters Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Can-
non and Sarah M. Kimball and B. W. 
Smith, Patriarch Joseph Horne and wife,
Hon. W. W. Riter and wife, Hon. James
Sharp and wife, Hon. Hugh Dougall and
wife, Sisters Emily D. P. Young, Priscilla
M. Staines and many other brethren and
sisters.
	The party was very enjoyable and was
another testimonial of the high esteem in 
which Sister Young is held by the people 
among whom her lot has been cast these
many years. The following letter is from
Canada and shows how the sisters there
celebrated the memorable anniversary day.

CARDSTON, January 31st, 1894.
	The Y. L.M.I.A. met as usual at the resi-
dence of President Zina Y. Card's, in honor of 
our much loved and highly esteemed sister
Zina D. H. Young. Opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister
Katie Knowlton. Continued by singing
"'Til the Resurrection Day.” President
Zina Y. Card then stated that this was her
mother’s birthday, and wished the sisters
to celebrate it by rejoicing in a testimony 
meeting; she knew the spirit her mother
had in the Temple would be in our midst.
Sister Hannah Anderson, said she was
pleased to meet with the Y. L. and she 
loved to speak of Aunt Zina Young. For 
she was a good noble woman, and had done
more good in the kingdom of God, than 
any of us can do.
	Annie Archibald and Minnie Smith each
bore a faithful testimony to the truthfulness
of this great work. Each felt that they 
had been highly edified since they had com-
menced to attend the Y. L. M. I. A. Min-
nie May and Lucinda Woolf felt pleased
to embrace the opportunity of bearing their
testimony. Felt we were blessed in having
Aunt Zina Young coming to visit us once
in a while; and would be glad if she 
could come again and be with us all the
time and mingle her sweet voice with the
rest of us; asked God to bless her and all
the sisters. Sister Katie Knowlton said
she was thankful to be able to attend her
Young Ladies meeting and bear her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the gospel. 
Asked God to bless Sister Young that she
might live long upon the earth to continue
her good works. 
	Counselor Elnora Wight spoke of the bless-
ing that Aunt Zina had given her long ago, 
said it had been a great comfort to her, and 
that she always felt a tender feeling for her, 
thought her face was always full of sweet-


ness. Asked God to prolong her days that
she might be able to come and see us again
here in Canada.
	Elizabeth Rollin, Effie Stoddard, Martha
Brown, Nellie Lieshman, Rhoda Hinman,
Lola Stoddard, Dora Hinman, Mary Ann
Parrott and Martha Baker each said they
were thankful of having the privilege of
bearing their testimony. Asked God to
bless our noble sister. Each wished her
“Many Happy Returns.’’ Knew she was a
noble good woman, and deserved much
praise.
	President Zina Card then gave a brief,
sketch of her mother’s life; said she knew
the spirit of the Lord would be with her,
and she knew that she would know we
were speaking of her goodness. Asked the
Lord to prolong her days. Said it was a
great comfort to her to know and to hear
the sisters bear their testimony in regard to
her coming to visit us again; she wanted to
spend all the time she could with her dear
mother. Closing prayer by President Zina
Card.
	P. S.—Dear Aunt Zina: I could not be
present at the time of this meeting on ac-
count of sickness. But I feel to add my
blessing with the rest of my dear sisters.
May God the giver of all we enjoy bless you
and prolong your days.
	May peace be your happy lot, dear sister.
That you may never want, but always have
plenty. Ma sends love; so also does Sarah.
All are enjoying pretty good health.
	Yours Lovingly,
		Nellie Hinman, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GENUINE SURPRISE.

	One of the most pleasant evenings of the
season was spent at the residence of Apostle
Franklin D. Richards January 21st, 1894,
it being the 71st Anniversary of the birth
of the Apostle’s beloved wife and our
esteemed friend, President Jane S. Richards.
At 7:30 p. m. their spacious rooms were
crowded with smiling faces, each one being
anxious to extend congratulations and heart-
felt wishes for many happy returns of the
day. Among the happy throng laden with
choice sentiments of pleasant greetings were
noticed President L. W. Shurtliff and wife,
Counselor N. C. Flygare, Bishop Robert
McQuarrie and wife, Bishop Stratford,
Bishop Wallace, Hon. D. H. Peery and
wife, Judge Farr and wife, Lawyer Rolapp
and wife Prof. Moench and wife, Elder E.
H. Nye and wife, Sisters Cannon, Herrick,
Woodmansee, Littlefield, Critchlow, James,
Canfield, and a host of others too numerous
to mention, besides a number of relatives,
including her only sister Mrs. Sarah S.
Richards, and niece Mrs. Lovisa Roundy.
	The amiable lady was taken by storm;
shaken and embraced without consent. No
mercy was shown, every one seeming to
think they had a perfect right to a birthday
kiss and a shake of the dear hand, as they
whispered a sentiment suitable for the oc-
casion.
	This time at least Sister Richards was
truly surprised and disconcerted, though
she soon regained her composure and pro-
ceeded in her usual courteous manner to
welcome the invaders, and make every one
feel at ease, a characteristic of hers to
which she is admirably adapted.
	Bishop McQuarrie then took charge of
the proceedings, and the company sang,
“Now let us rejoice,” etc. Prayer was

[column 2]
offered by Elder L. F. Moench.  Sister
Stevens and others sang, ‘‘I know that my
Redeemer lives. ”
	Bishop McQuarrie said he truly ap-
preciated Sister Richards in the Ward over
which he presided: had never known any
one who possessed so much energy and
determination, with so much genius in
searching out the poor and distressed, and
so much skill and ability in supplying their
wants as Sister Richards had exhibited in
her labor of love in the ward; and now, he
was happy to state, her refining influence
was felt throughout the city, county, Ter-
ritory and beyond its borders.  His good
wishes and prayers were many, and beauti-
fully expressed.
	President L. W. Shurtliff said he had al-
ways admired Sister Richard's tact in bat-
tling with difficulties, nobly surmounting
them, and overcoming evil with good, had
not language to express his deep regard for
her, endorsed all that had been said, and
prayed for her to live and do good as long
as she desired to do so.
	Hon. D. H. Perry said Sister Richards
had shown more love and charity in her
labors than any one he had ever known.
Those who knew her best loved her most;
the zeal with which she had labored was 
worthy of praise  Her exemplary family
were filling, honorably, responsible possi-
tions which was due to her. instruction
and are a credit to her.
	Sisters Emily Shurtliff and R. E. Monch
also expressed their high regard and due
appreciation for Sister Richards, gave her
great credit for her untiring efforts in
charitable purposes, and prayed that she
might have health and strength to continue
to her heart’s satisfaction.
	Brother and Sister Richards each ex-
pressed their gratitude to their friends for
their kindly wishes extended, and their
presence a token of regard which was truly
appreciated,—after which Bishop McQuarrie
announced a change in the program, which
proved to be a delicious repast prepared by
the sons and daughters of the Apostle and
his noble lady. It was a pleasing feature
of the occasion to witness the tender regard
shown by the sons and daughters for their
parents. Hon. F. S. Richards and wife,
Josephine Richards West and Mrs. L. M.
Richards each deserve praise for the excel-
lent refreshments which they served with
becoming grace and courtesy which betoken-
ed the culture of a model home.
	After refreshments were served Apostle
Richards spoke very interestingly of their
early experience in Ogden. Through long
acquaintance and association with the good
people of Weber County the ties of friend-
ship had grown stronger, and he said,
“Knowing you more we will serve you
better.” He also stated that the same
high regard expressed for Sister Richards
in a public capacity he had always enter-
tained for her in the social relation at home.
During fifty one years of married life they
had passed through many trials and priva-
tions which Sister Richards had borne with
patience and fortitude. She had ever been
very unselfish, seeking the comfort and
happiness of others rather than her own.
They had not celebrated their silver and
golden weddings, but thanked God for their
union, and loved each other better as the
veil grew thinner between them and the
Eternal worlds.
	Sister Richards made a few appropriate
remarks, and the closing prayer was offered
by Bishop Stratford.

[column 3]
	After pleasant adieux the crowd dispersed
well satisfied with the evening’s enjoy-
ment. 

	A TRIBUTE TO JANE S. RICHARDS
			BY R. E. MOENCH.

We’ve called here this evening dear Sister and
		Friend,
	A few words of love to express,
Our congratulations to you to extend,
	And to wish you continued success.

You’ve truly been blessed by our Father and God
	in the work so nobly you’ve done, 
Through trials so patient, in counsel so wise,
	To the dear age of Seventy-one.

We are journeying on toward the end of life’s
		race,
	And doing the best that we know
Why not the approval and smiles of our friends
	To cheer us along as we go?

Too often the tokens of love are lain by
	Like the miser who hoards up his gold,
’Till the sensitive spirit has left its abode,
	And the loving heart’s lifeless and cold.

The vaults are then opened and treasures brought
		forth,
	Such honors; what tongne could relate?
The noble deeds done, and bright laurels won
	Are heralded then, but too late—

Too late, when life’s hurdens are once cast aside,
	When the wearisome journey is o’er,
The love and affection for which the heart sighed
	Are needed to cheer them no more.

Let us rally round our dear friends while they live
	With love smooth the furrows of care;
Let charity’s mantle mistakes cover o’er,
	And help them their burdens to bear.

Each heart has its sorrow, each bosom its woe,
	Each Pilgrim must bear his own cross,
Our own cares seem lighter when others we aid,
	in giving, we suffer no loss.

You’ve followed this rule at home and abroad,
	And shown what a woman can do 
In wisely extending the gifts of His love, 
	Which God has bestowed upon you.
							COMMUNICATED.

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies Meeting, held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan. 13th
1884. Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Song
“Come let us anew.” Prayer by Sister E.
Brown. Continued by singing, “All Hail 
the new born year.’’ Minutes of the last
neeting read and approved. Prest. M. I.
Horne said I am happy to meet with you in
this another year, I am so glad to see so
many sisters here today, and I trust that
you will all bear testimony.
	The minutes of the 5th Ward Primary
Annual Meeting were read by the Secre-
tary, a little girl. 
	Sisters Aird and Leaker, each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and felt to acknowledge the hand of God
in all things. Sisters sang, “We thank
thee O, God for a prophet.”
	Sister Julia Pack, spoke of trials and
tribulations she had passed through, said
she had seen the sick healed by the laying
on of hands, had seen many raised from
seeming death, and had been raised herself.
	Sister Bidgood, spoke of learning the
things of God, through tribulations. Told
of many trials borne in the past. Desired
to live to do good, invoked God’s blessing
on all the sisters.
	Coun. E. Webb said, let us talk comfort-
ing words to each other, and be valiant
soldiers in the cause of our God. Let us
have faith and bear cheerfully what we are
called upon to endure. Let us thank the
Lord for our experiences, for they are les-


[Column 1]
sons unto us. Let me exhort you to be
faithful. Think of the privilege you have
to work in the temple, to liberate those who
are waiting for redemption. Said many
other good things.
	A sister in the congregation, bore her
testimony, told of a child of hers that had
been dead five minutes, and was then re-
stored to life by the ordinances of the Gos-
pel, made other remarks.
	Sisters Larsen and Jean Peterson, each
spoke, felt to glorify God, and desired to
help build up the kingdom.
	Sister M. Wilcox, felt to bear her testi-
mony, and spoke at some length on Temple
work.
	Coun. E. Stevenson, bore testimony to
the efficacy of fasting and prayer, said we
draw nearer to Him in this way, and He
turns none away empty who come to Him
in this way. Gave other good instructions.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert said, I feel
thankful and full of gratitude to God for
the many blessings he has bestowed on me.
I feel to devote my life and my all to His
cause. I pray for the Holy Spirit in us all
that we may be saved with the just.
	Sister Palmer bore her testimony, also
Sister Diana Reid, and Sister Smailey,
Sister Paul told of blessings promised her, 
and the labor she had performed as a re-
sult of their fulfillment.
	Prest. M. I. Horne, I am glad of the testi-
monies that have been borne. Our
priviliges are great for we can meet to-
gether, that our souls may be fed. I am
so thankful that the Church property has
been restored, I feel that God is working
in His own way, and His own time. The
key was turned to favor Zion, when the
Temple was dedicated. He requires us to
be humble and faithful, and prepare for
His second coming. I feel with my sisters
that we shall have a prosperous and Happy
New Year.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Sang “The time is far spent.” Bene-
diction by Sister J. C. Howe.
	L. D. Alder, Sec.

A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY
      
	ON February 3rd at 3 p. m. there was a
large and influential gathering of ladies and
a few gentlemen in the 14th Ward Hall in
this City: the stand and platform were ap-
propriately decorated and several dis-
tinguished representative women beside the
speakers occupied the seats on the platform.
	The Secretary having read the call for the
meeting,—President Emmeline B. Wells
said she simply wished to state that the
meeting had been called to create an interest
and awaken a sentiment upon the subject
of Woman Suffrage. There was no par-
ticular business to be transacted, but some
speeches would be made upon the question.
She then called upon the audience to sing
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe’s “Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” This finished, Dr. Barney
offered prayer, and the song “New
America” was then sung.
	The President then introduced Mrs Zina
D. H. Young to address the audience.
She said: “Ladies and gentlemen—
gentlemen and ladies—we have met to-
gether today upon a grand occasion, at
least to my heart. The words of our first
song referred to ‘Our Country.’ That
will be my text if I take one—‘Our
Country.’ Ladies: If it needed heroes for
our countrymen, where were the heroines?

[Column 2]
We raised the heroes, we imbued their
souls with the love of freedom and caused
them to sustain a George Washington and
his friends. I have often heard my grand-
father tell of the scenes of the revolutionary
war my father of that of 1812, when the
song of the glad tidings of the freedom of
our country was sung. There is a grander
beyond, grander than words can express.
And when we see our country almost
wrecked sometimes by policy and party
that almost drowns principle, we are led to
ask where are the heroines of the last days?
Or in this extended time of our country,
when with glory women may maintain and
retain honorable principles and bestow
them upon their offspring. In view of
this and kindred questions we have met to-
gether today to cultivate and try to
stimulate these glorious principles, and to
let the nation know that we appreciate our
country’s inheritance, and that the mothers
have something to do in the matter. Let us
not lose sight of it. These are the
principles of my heart and always have
been; and let it be remembered that,
though many of us have passed along in
time to see the sear and yellow leaf, “they
that plant pears plant for their heirs,”
this is what we are doing, ladies. The
major portion of us have passed the
meridian; but the glory of our hearts is to
sustain principles that are correct, we are
battling for them today. Let us not desert
our posts. As Joseph Smith used to ob-
serve, “stand to the rack, hay or no hay.”
I was glad to meet with our sisters in the
Grand Congress of the world. There we
were sisters, we are the same here today.
I could almost say like one of old, “Let thy
servant depart in peace, for I see thy glory.”
These are the feelings of our souls. May
we yet attain to our rights; may it be our
happy lot to obtain our rights is my desire
and prayer."
	The President next introduced Hon.
John E. Booth as one of the most dis-
tinguished gentlemen of the territory, with
a request that he should address the meet-
ing.
	Mr. Booth said: “Mrs. President, women
and men: I scarcely understand why I have
been permitted to be here, and I do not un-
derstand exactly why I should receive such
a flattering introduction. But I presume it
is right when things are offered to us freely
that we take them. I will say this, how-
ever, that I think my introduction here is
probably based more upon my zeal on this
subject than on my ability; because if my
ability were equal to my zeal I feel that
more would be accomplished in this line.
I do not remember when I first commenced
thinking about this matter, but it appears
to me that since thinking about it at
all I have never seen but one side.
It may be that I am prejudiced; I think
about that sometimes; but I will say this,
that I regard women very much as I hear
the report of wines—the older they are the
better they are. I believe I am right in
that, with no disrespect at all to the young
ladies, for all they have to do is to wait and
they will get there. It is within the reach
of all of them. But I realize this: that
the higher the civilization, the true civiliza-
tion mankind attains to, the more respect is
paid to woman. More rights are given her.
No, not rights. They have the rights.
I believe that the true meaning of the
Declaration of Independence, wherein it says
that all men are created equal and endowed
with inalienable rights, life, liberty and the

[Column 3]
pursuit of happiness—that that embraced,
in its practicable application, women. It
should be meant. I regard it that they
have these rights, and will have them,
though they have not had the privilege of
enjoying them. But as we get along in
civilization, coming events cast their
shadows before. We are getting nearer
this desired end, and I am very thankful to
say that Utah has taken a front rank in
this. But with regard to some rights I
am almost inclined to believe that the wo-
men of Utah have passed over the line of
right and been granted some privileges
that have not been granted to others.
Still I have no fault to find with that; be-
cause it would only be right if they got
many more privileges over what they have
been deprived of in generations back. But
in regard to property rights, we find that
the property rights of women in this Ter-
ritory are beyond what they are in other
places. Under the old law woman had
very little property rights. Her personal
property when she was married went to
her husband. While she might keep the
title in her name, all rents went to her
husband, and she lost her legal identity
when she became married. I find that
has passed out of date. In 1870, twenty-
four years this month, as I now remem-
ber, the women of this territory were given
their franchise, and under the same law—
not practically the same law, but soon after
that time, they were given the right to
hold property in their name, independent
in every respect from the control of their
husband. That law provided that in
the case of property acquired by descent, or
gift, or inheritance. That law, however,
did not provide for their purchasing
property, but I think two years later that
law was amended so that they acquire
property, and all the property a woman held
before they were married and after, whether
acquired by purchase, gift of descent,
should be hers absolutely, and without the
control of the husband. The same law
provided that the right of dower in this
territory should be abolished, placing men
and women on an equal footing in regard
to property. That law was enforced for
seventeen years and enjoyed by women to
the very great benefit of all the people of
this territory. Women did not receive the
benefit of it alone, but it was a benefit to
the territory, and I say the women handled
that question with very great credit. Per-
haps they did not understand as much
about it as some men do, although they
have the pleasure of knowing that they
did understand the subject as well as some
men did. And that brings me to this
point: is there any objections to granting
women the right of franchise? It is said
they possess certain disqualifications by
reason of their being women and that there-
fore there are certain rights they should not
enjoy, and that men, by reason of their
being men, should enjoy. I have, how-
ever, discovered that every objection that 
has been raised on that ground applies to
men as well as to women.”
	To be Continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. SOPHIA BRAEUNLICH, business
manager of the Engineering and Mining
Journal of New York, was by a recent 
action of the British Imperial Institute
made one of the twenty life fellows of that
honorable organization. She is the only
woman member in the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

			TER. W. S. A.

	AN important meeting in the interest of
suffrage was held Feb. 3rd, 1894, in the
14th, Ward Assembly Hall. The territorial
president Mrs. E. B. Wells called the meet-
ing to order and presided. Miss Maude
Pratt and Miss Pearl Russell sang "Battle
Hymn of the Republic,” the audience
joining in the chorus. Prayer was offered
by Mrs. E. S. Barney. The congregation
sang ‘‘New America.”
	Brief and interesting were the speeches 
by Dr. Hasbrouck, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Samuel Richards, and Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark. Able addresses were delivered by
Messrs John E. Booth and Dr. M. Hughes
Cannon in which the speakers showed con-
clusively that equal suffrage should be en-
joyed by both sexes.
	A Recitation by Miss Babcock, songs by
Mrs. Bessie Dean Allison and George D.
Pyper were the artistic features of the oc-
casion. Meeting adjourned subject to the
call of the president.
			NELLIE LITTLE, Rec. Sec.

			S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened
at the residence of Mrs. Elizabeth A. C.
McCune, Jan. 16th 1894, President Eliza-
beth McFarlane in the chair.
	Opened by singing, ‘‘Come let us anew”
prayer by Mary E. Bassett. Minutes of
the last meeting read, corrected and ap-
proved. Names of new members taken.
The program for the meeting was carried
out by several of the ladies giving the
necessary qualifications to enable foreigners
to become voters in the United States,
which disclosed the fact that in about six-
teen of the states, aliens could vote with-
out having declared their intention of be-
coming citizens, by conforming to the laws
of either of those states which do not re-
quire that voters should be naturalized.
	Several speeches were made by ladies
who did not enjoy taxation, without
representation, and the Universal Sentiment
seemed to be that if they ever did get the
franchise again (which we have full faith
that we will do) they would not be so
particular about voting for parties, as they
would for men: The ladies then listened
with much attention, to the matchless pro-
duction, “Oh! my Father” by that great
exponent of woman’s rights Eliza R. Snow,
beautifully rendered by Bro. Thomas
Ashworth with piano accompaniment.
For an encore Bro. Ashworth gave two
other songs after which a vote of thanks
were given him, and the meeting stood ad-
journed until the third Tuesday in Feb., at
the same time and place, which concluded
one of the most delightful meetings the
association has ever had. Mrs. McCune
has kindly thrown open her beautiful
parlors, with ample room for all, in which
we hope the ladies will feel a renewed
interest in meeting together and contribut-
ing to make the association a grand success.
		C. C. R. WELLS, Sec. pro tem.

		BEAVER CO. W. S. A.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Beaver County Woman’s Suffrage 
Association held their annual for the 
election of officers Friday, Feb. 16, 1894.

[Column 2]
	The house was beautifully decorated our 
suffrage flag with its two golden stars oc-
cupying a conspicuous place on the walls.
	Although a severe snowstorm was raging,
the Relief Society Hall was well filled,
about one hundred ladies and gentlemen
being present.
	The delegates from the lower settlements
responded to the call, those from Minersville
bravely riding eighteen miles through the
storm to be present. An excellent
programme was carried out, consisting of
speeches, readings from the History of Wo-
man’s suffrage, an essay, songs, toasts and
sentiments. The string band kindly lent
their services and the sweet strains of music
greatly added to our enjoyment. Refresh-
ments were served, and all felt we had en-
joyed a treat besides giving fresh impetus to
the cause in this county. A number of our
leading men were present all of whom ex-
pressed themselves in favor of woman's
suffrage. The following resolutions were
adopted unanimously. Resolved, “That
all citizens should enjoy the right of suffrage
regardless of sex.
	Resolved:—That we extend our hearty
congratulations to the women of Colorado
and Wyoming on having entered, at last in-
to their rightful heritage.
	Resolved:—That we tender to the women
of New York and Kansas our heartfelt
sympathy in the crisis pending in those
states.
	Resolved:—That the action of the
Supreme Court of Michigan in depriving
the women of that state of municipal suf-
frage is a step backward, and is contrary to
the spirit of the Constitution and the age in
which we live and as such receives our un-
qualified disapproval.
	The Officers elected for the ensuing year
are:—Prest. M. A. White; first Vice. Prest.
Mary Fernley; second Vice Prest., Hettie
Gentry; third Vice Prest., Harriet S.
Farnsworth; fourth Vice Prest. Alice
Herbert. Rec. Sec. and treasurer Clara F.
Murdock; Cor. Sec. Caddie F. Murdock.
Executive Board, Louisa Jones, Chairman.
S. C. Maeser, W. G. Bickley, Jane Bickley,
M. E. Murdock. For Minersville, Mrs.
Ada Rollins Vice Prest. Adamsville, Mrs.
Margaret Pierce Vice President. Green-
ville, Mrs. Mary Davis, Vice Prest.
	THE EXPONENT is a welcome visitor.
It is doing a good work in the Suffrage
cause.				LOUISSA JONES.


THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE
			GOVERNMENT.

			[Concluded.]
	During the unfortunate controversy be-
tween the President and Congress, the
work of reorganization had been going
steadily on. Seven of the disorganized
states, North and South Carolina, Georgia,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas
had ratified the amendment, complied with
the requirement of Congress and taken
their places as revived States of the Union.
But the reorganization was not perfected un-
til 1872, when on the 23rd of May the
three remaining states took their places,
filling every seat in Congress for the first
time since the disruption in 1861.
	Before the adjournment of Congress in
1868, the Senate ratified an important treaty
with China, establishing mutual and equal
privileges of trade, travel, education and
religion between the United States and

[COLUMN 2]
China, a concession never before made by
the Chinese to any nation.
	President Johnson’s administration ended
on the 4th of March, 1869, and Ulysses S.
Grant was inaugurated the eighteenth
president of the United States. Shortly
after that event, Mr. Julian of Indiana,
proposed an important amendment to the
national Constitution, in the following form:
“The right of citizens of the United States
shall be based on citizenship, and shall be
regulated by Congress; and all citizens of
the United States, whether native or
naturalized, shall enjoy this right equally,
without any distinction or discrimination
whatever founded on sex.”
	A very important event occurred during
the year 1869, namely, the uniting of the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans by railroad
connection, the ceremony of laying the last
tie and driving the last spike occuring on
the 10th of May, 1869, near the head of the
Great Salt Lake.
	In 1871, seven thousand six hundred and
seventy miles of railroad was laid and put in
successful operation in the United States.
In this year also the great Chicago fire oc-
cured, “In the extent of district burned
this fire stands first, property destroyed
second, and in the suffering occasioned
third, in the conflagrations of the world."
	In 1872, a court was held by the Board of
Arbitration appointed by the United States
and Great Britain and composed of leading .
men from both Europe and America, to
consider the claim of the United States
against Great Britain for damages from
British vessels on the coast during the civil
war. It was decided that Great Britain
should pay to the United States
$15,500,000.00. At that time the national
debt had been considerably lessened, the
products of the United States had greatly
increased, and American manufactures were
competing with England in the markets of
the world. The population had gradually
moved westward until Ohio became the
centre.
	In 1872, Grant was re-elected President,
with Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts,
as Vice-President.
	In 1876, the Territory of Colorado was
admitted as a State. As early as 1866
Prof. John L. Campbell of Wabash Col-
lege, proposed an appropriate centennial
celebration, which subject was also discussed
by other leading men, but nothing definite
was accomplished toward that object until
the spring of 1871, when the House of
Representatives passed a bill providing that
an exhibition of American and foreign arts,
products and manufactures should be held
under the auspices of the government in
the city of Philadelphia in 1876. Time
will not admit of our entering into the de-
tails of the financial difficulties incurred,
but one item must be mentioned, and that
is that Congress positively refused twice to
appropriate one cent for the Centennial
Exposition, but states, cities, schools, and
individuals entered into the spirit of the
exhibition, and after the President had ex-
tended a cordial invitation to foreign
nations to participate in an international
exhibition, and some of them contributed
thousands of dollars therefor, Congress also
became enthused with the subject, and voted
the appropriation of $505,000 for the
erection of a building in honor of the
United States, etc., and finally a further ap-
propriation of $1,500,000 was made to
make up the amount required for the success
of the Exposition, which was estimated to


be about $9,000,000. Fairmount Park, one
of the largest and most magnificent in the 
world, was offered to the commission for the
exhibition by the city of Philadelphia, and
on the 10th of May, 1876, the Centennial
Exposition was formally opened.
	The Indian question has occupied much
of the time, attention and means of the
nation since its first settlement by the white
people, brought about in the majority of
cases by their avarice and injustice. In 1864
there was a war with the Cheyennes; in 1873
the Modoc War occurred; in 1876 the
memorable war with the Sioux Indians
took place, when General Custer and nearly
all of his command were slain by Sitting
Bull and his followers, and in 1877 a war
occurred between Nez Perces Indians and
the United States. Of course the latter
army being so much more powerful were
conquerors, and the savages were driven
from their legal property and made more
savage in feelings than before. Trouble be-
gan to arise between employers and employ-
ees a strike of railroad employees commenced
in June, 1877, on the Baltimore and Ohio
railroad and soon spread to most of the roads
in the northern States, interrupting traffic
for several years.
	In 1876 the Presidential election took
place, and both the Republicans and
Democrats claimed the victory, some of the
voting having been done in an irregular and
unsatisfactory manner.  Of course the
decision rested with Congress, and after
long and earnest debating it was agreed to
refer the matter to a joint high commission
composed of five members from the Senate,
five from the House and five from the Su-
preme Court, and not 'till the second of
March, 1877, was the election finally decided
in favor of the Republican candidate,
Rutherford B. Hayes, President, and William
A. Wheeler, Vice President. One of the 
most important events in President Hayes'
administration was the Civil Service Reform
law, one essential feature being that no
government officer should be allowed to take
part in any political campaign.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED Jan. 9th, 1894 at Levan, Juab Co., Esther
Gardner, wife of George Gardner, in her 60th
year, after a lingering illness of counsumption for
many years.
	She leaves a husband, three children, (boy and
two girls,) and hosts of friends to mourn her de-
parture.
	Sister Gardner has worked very faithfully in
different departments of this Church. She took
an active part in the Relief Society, when it was
first organized, and acted as a teacher in the
Sabbath School for over twenty years.
	When the Primary Association was first
organized, she was set apart as president, and
from that time until she died, she has remained in
that position, laboring very diligently for the
benefit of the children, and attending to her
duties with steady application, as long as her
health would permit.
	She had succeeded, by her kind and winning
way, to gain the love and respect of all the
children and died as she had always lived, honest
and faithful to the gospel. The remains were
taken to the meeting House, and the funeral
took place Jan. 12th, and was conducted by
Bishop N. P. Rasmussen; John Ollerton, James
Wilson, J. W. Shepherd and Tunbridge made
very appropriate remarks. The choir was also
in attendance, and a song was sung by the
Primary children. The remains were followed to
the cemetery by her family, relatives and many
friends.
	Dearest Esther sweetly sleeping,
		In the tomb she's laid to rest,
	But her spirit watch is keeping,
		For she dwells among the blest,

[column 2]
	Though her body now is resting,
		Free from weary pain and care,
	She rejoices in bright mansions;
		With the just and righteous there.

	Then cheer up and cease your weeping,
		She has reached that "happy shore,"
	Where no grief and sickness enter
		And there's rest forevermore.

			DINAH OLLERTON,	Counselors.
			ANNIE RASMUSSEN,
Levan Primary Association,
			MOLLIE MANGLESON, Secretary.

	AGAIN, Death with its relentless hand has
visited our society and taken from our midst our
lamented sister, Maria D. Chambers, who for
several years prior to her death, held the position
of first counselor to President Marianna Strat-
ford, in the fourth Ward Relief Society, Ogden.
She died Jan. 2nd, 1894, aged fifty nine years, two
months and fifteen days. It is only two short
months since we laid to rest our second counselor
so that we the more keenly feel this, our second
bereavement.
	Deceased was a native of Manchester, England,
but soon after her marriage, she with her hus- 
band, left their native land, to gather with the
saints of God. They crossed the plains by ox
team and endured all the hardships incident to
such journeyings, arriving in Salt Lake City, Oct.
1853.
	In 1869 they settled in Ogden and have ever
since made this city their home. She joined the
Fourth Ward Relief Society at its organization,
which took place Jan. 17th, 1879, and was at that
time called to be a teacher, a position which she
faithfully filled until May 8th, 1883, when she was
called to the office of second counselor; here
again she labored with diligence until June 27th,
1888, at which time she was chosen first counselor
which position she also honorably and faithfully
filled until our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom called her hence, to a more exalted
place.
	She was a noble woman and greatly endeared
to all who were acquainted with her, but it was
in her own home that her life shone out with all
the glory of true motherhood, and her death has
left an aching void that can never be filled.
	Our society has lost a wise counselor, a firm
advocate and a true friend, yet we know that our
loss is her eternal gain, and we therefore bow in
humble submission to the will of our Heavenly
Father, praying that the comforting influence of
His holy spirit may rest down upon the bereaved
family, and that they may ere long be able to see
the "silver lining" to the cloud that now hangs so 
heavily over them.

			A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
[To the memory of our dear Sister and Counselor
Maria D. Chambers.]

Tenderly fold the weary hands,
	Carefully robe the sainted clay,
Lovingly smooth the silken hair,
	Gently, peacefully lay her away.

Her work is finished—death is passed,
	Her mission on earth is o'er,
Henceforth for her brow is the victor's crown,
	In a home where death is no more.

How nobly, how bravely she labored,
	How well her work is done;
Her life, its duties, seemed all complete
	Ere the setting of life's sun.

How tender she was at the couch of pain,
	How willing her sisters to bless;
The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs;
	Her works were of righteousness.

Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
	Her teachings were full of love,
Her example will bear fruition
	That will follow her above.

In her death we are all bereaved
	And our tears of sorrow shed,
As we bring our floral offering,
	To place o'er the sainted dead.

Today there is sorrow and mourning,
	For the loss of a mother's love;
But list to the greetings yonder?
	Husband, Wife, reunited above.

Be patient ye sons and daughters,
	Tread the path your parents have trod,
And your circle again shall be complete,
	In the mansions of our God.
			MARIANNA STRATFORD, President.
			NELLIE BEECROFT, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Rooms in this City on
Friday March 23, meetings commencing as
usual at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. Each Society
in the Stake should be represented by ts
President or some other officers that all may
be benefitted. Bishops and brethren in-
terested are cordially invited to be present.
		M. ISABELLA HORNE, President.


REPORTS WANTED IMMEDIATELY.

	THE Relief Society Stake Secretaries in
all the several organized Stakes of Zion,
and in branches of the Society in this and
other countries where there is no Stake
organized should send in a yearly report for
1893 as soon as possible to be compiled for
the coming April Conference, that each
Society may have equal recognition. All
reports to be forwarded to this office, by
order of the President, ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16.
Office: 34 East 5th South,
			Telephone 383. 
DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Maminoth Store at actual 
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
	No. 41 S, WEST TEMPLE STREET
	Opp, Grant Bros. Stables,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL.  22.  SALT  LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  MARCH 15, 1894. No. I4.

[The following is written at the top of the page]
Manti 
Manti
Rebecca Nauham


CONTENTS:
	Personal Impressions of Art at the Columbian
Exposition—Edahoo. Woman—E. S. A Plea
for More Kindness Among Women—Alta
Witbeck. Relief Society Conforence. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. A
Woman’s Assembly. Woman Suffrage Column—
S. L. Co. W. S. A., Bountiful W. S. A., and Wo-
man Suffrage. R. S. & P. A. Reports. The
First Woman Lawyer. In Memoriam.
Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—President Woodruff’s Party.
Editorial Notes. 
	POETRY.—Overworked—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
The Purest Gift—Zina E. Crocheron. God Give
Us Men—Oliver Wendell Holmes.


OVERWORKED.
Up with the birds in the early morning--
	The dewdrop glows like a precious gem;
Beautiful tints in the sky are dawning,
	But she’s never a moment to look at them.
The men are wanting their breakfast early;
	She must not linger, she must not wait;
The words that are sharp, and looks that are
	surly,
Are what the men give when the meals are late.

O glorious colors the clouds are turning!
	If she would but look over hills and trees;
But here are the dishes, and there is the churn-
	ing— 
	Those things always must yield to these;
The world is filled with the wine of beauty,
	If she would but pause and drink it in;
But pleasure, she says, must wait for duty—
	Neglected work is committed sin.

The day grows hot and her hands grow weary;
	Oh, for an hour to cool her head!
Out with the birds and the wind so cheery—
	But she must get dinner, and make the bread.
The busy men in the hayfield working,
	If they saw her sitting with idle hand,
Would think her lazy, and call her shirking,
	And she never could make them understand.

They do not know that the heart within her,
	Hungers for beanty and things sublime;
They only know that they want their dinner,
	Plenty of it, and “just on time.”
And after the sweeping and churning and baking,
	And dinner dishes are all put by,
She sits and sews, though her head is aching,
	’Till time for supper and “chores” draws nigh.

Her boys at school must look like others,
	She says, as she patches their frocks and hose,
For the world is quick to censure mothers,
	For the least neglect of their children’s clothes.
Her husband comes from the field of labor,
	He gives no praise to his weary wife;
She’s done no more than has her neighbor—
	’Tis the lot of all in a country life.

But after the strife and weary tussle,
	When life is done, and she lies at rest,
The nation’s brain and heart and muscle—
	Her sons and daughters—shall call her blest;
And I think the sweetest joy of heaven,
	The rarest bliss of eternal life, 
And the fairest crown of all will be given
	Unto the wayworn farmer’s wife.
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS OF ART
	AT THE COLUMBIAN
	EXPOSITION.
	Concluded.
	Among the pictures in the French de-
partment I found Jean Beraud’s “Descent
From the Cross” a curiosity to me until I
learned it belonged to the “Impressionists”
school, Beraud being one of the masters of
that glaring novelty of Art, “Im-
pressionism.” The pictured Christ is truly
the study of a dead body; glassy eyes and
sunken jaws, horrible in its realism: There
are tiled roofs on the houses of the compara-
tively modern city in the background, and
the men and women about the cross repre-
senting the family and friends of the Savior,
are dressed like common people of the
French class of to day. It reminded me
more of a group of resurrectionists, with
some curious women looking on, than a
picture of the sorrowful group we are wont
to think of as tenderly taking from the
cross the body of our Lord. It is just pos-
sible that the faces of the apostles and wo-
men in this picture are portraits—as in the
picture of “Christ at the Pharisee’s Table,”
by the same artist, exhibited in 1891, and
which it is said all Paris flocked to see,
where the Christ is surrounded by well
known personages of our day, in modern
dress, and that herein lies the true merits of
the “Descent From The Cross.” But it
strikes me that Impressionism is going be-
yond its original motto “Down with con-
vention and idea of first fugitive impres-
sion of things.” My first fugitive im-
pression of the “Descent From the Cross,”
was that it was neither historical, graceful
in grouping, or tender in sentiment, and far
from inspiring a religious feeling. But
here, as a foil to Beraud’s, we see Rosa
Bonheur’s “King of the Forest” and the
“Overthrow,” for they are full of life, and
wild life too. She is always true to life, in
drawing, and catches the lights of nature
most effectively. 
	Bonnat’s portrait of M. Renan I thought
wonderfully clever; yet some of the critics
tell me it was very “flat” and “cut out,”
despite the rotundity of the subject. But
here, as elsewhere, I looked with my own
eyes.
	Paul Matthey’s "First Proof" gave the
effect of reflected light, on the man’s face,
as he studies the proof in his hand, in a
wonderfully fine way.
	“Our Lady of the Angels” by
Bouguereau, one of those lovely Madonnas
with the face of holy calm, which remind-
ed me of Murrillo’s “Immaculate Concep-
tion,” is holding the most beautiful babe in
her arms, who reaches out his little arms to
you. The back ground of blue sky and
rosy clouds, is filled with child angels and
they hover all about her. The dark blue
drapery and pale red of the gown being the
only decided color, the whole effect was
charming to me; simple in its grouping,
and very fresh and lovely. Bouguereau
must delight in painting babies and beauti-
ful women, for his “Wasp’s Nest,” some-

[Column 2]
times called “Invading Cupid’s Realm” is
an exquisite study of both. The fair sweet
maiden just old enough to begin to think of
love, is a blonde brunette, with the
loveliest eyes of violet blue, and a scant
drapery thrown about her, to match them
in color. She has stepped into a veritable
nest of cupids, such lovely, rollicking, rosy,
mischievous cherubs, who swarm about her
in every conceivable position of grace and
beauty. One intrepid little fellow has
crept toward her and has his hand on her
perfect foot; another whispers in her sea-
shell ear, and one more venturesome still,
is about to kiss her red, ripe lips. It is a
perfect study of innocent babyhood and
girlhood, and as fresh and pretty as it is
perfect in drawing and coloring.
	“The Virgin’s Home” by Dubufe, a
pretty modern looking Virgin, sweet and
dainty, coming down the steps toward you.
She is dressed in white and carries a really
natural baby, whose face and head has no
preternaturally wise look, but who gazes at
you wonderingly, just as most babies do at
a crowd. The home is one of those white
square top houses, with the glare of the
white light of the Orient on it, pretty arbor
and olive trees in the back ground.
	Eugene Feyen’s “The Cancale Regatta,”
a scene in Venice, numberless figures very
tiny, yet each figure is distinct, and the face
is painted expressively. The colors, too,
are vivid and the effect of soft balmy air,
cloudless blue sky and brilliant colors of
flags, boats and costumes, makes it, for me,
a very attractive little picture.
	Tissot’s “The Prodigal Son,” a series of
four pictures, were gems of rich warm
tones, exquisitely painted.
	“An Old Inn in Castile” by Vuillefroy,
was one of those quaint bits of old Spanish
architecture pleasant to look upon. Soft
creamy brown tints that rest the eye,
which often tires looking at the wealth of
color.
	Zuber’s “Under The Beeches” was a
beautiful landscape. The effect of sun-
light, air and distance, remarkably true,
and the perspective a triumph of art. The
largest canvases and some of the small
ones in the German departments were
largely devoted to William the Second, and
one, the immense “Apotheosis,” of Wil-
liam the First.
	The American public I fancy have very
little use for such subjects and they were to
me simply lay figures. Lenbach, the par-
excellence portrait painter of Germany,
shows Bismarck, who modestly takes a
back seat, but is a wonderful picture.
His “Pope Leo,” whose kindly pleasing
face causes us to forgive the glare of his
crimson gown is also fine; and the portrait
of “Monsen” by Prof. Knaus, is magnif-
icent, stands out from the canvas like life.
	“In the Cellar” by Edmund Harburger,
who is called “the witty German painter;”
his subject a fat German lounging between
two beer barrels, is not a very poetic one,
nor inspiring, yet the picture is so fine in
tone and color, that we forgive the coarse-
ness in the harmonious whole.
	Kroenberger’s two paintings “An


[Column 1]
Amusing Chronicle” and “A Good Hand”
were little gems,and brought a smile no mat-
ter how tired one  might  be,  “The Good
Hand” especially.   The  old  man holds  a
first rate  hand at  cards and cannot  keep
back the grin of satisfaction.   The  perfect
detail from  the face of the man to the finger
tips is wonderfully well worked out.  “The
Amusing Chronicle" has  caused  the com-
fortable looking  old  priest,  to  forget  the
dainty mouthful he was carrying to his lips,
and while he holds the pamphlet in one hand
he throws back his head  and  laughs right
merrily,   the other hand still  poised half
way  to his mouth.   They are tiny canvases
but so perfect in detail,  that you  see  as  it
were the whole scene of the story,  though
in both, but a part of each is suggested.
	“The Roll Call” by  Lady Butler, said to
be the  most celebrated painting by  a wo-
man,  unless  we  except,  Rose Bonheur’s
“Horse Fair,” we find in  the English  de-
partment,  of course.
   I had hoped to enjoy greatly Sir Frederick
Leighton’s paintings,  and I must say I was
disappointed  in  them.   No  doubt  it  was
lack of culture or knowledge,   I  am free to
admit it,  but  I  failed  to  be  impressed by
either the power,  or drawing,  or  coloring,
in  his “Hercules Wrestling With Death For
The Body  of Alcestes.” His “Perseus”
and “Andromeda” was more  to my taste,
though the former was called “the" paint-
ing in the English department.   His bronze
piece, "The Sluggard" was very fine.   His
“Garden of Hesperides” is  beautiful  in
gorgeous  effect of color,  and of course the
three girls guarding the  golden  apple, are
perfectly drawn,  but  their  drapery is  stiff
and ungraceful.
	‘‘Two Little Home Rulers,” sons of the
Earl   of Aberdeen,   dressed  in  the  Irish
costume   and  seated  in a  wheel  barrow,
which stands in the midst of a potato field:
very bright mischievous little fellows they
look,  and a charming study for portraits.
   Sir  John  Millais “Bubbles,” attracted
me.   Of course we are all familiar  with  it
(more is the  pity)  from  its having  been
reproduced as an advertisement of “Pears
Soap,” but the  sweetness of the  beautiful
blonde child’s expression,  and the perfectly
delightful coloring so  pure  and  fresh, are
charming.    The  bubbles,   too,   look  as
though a breath  would bnrst them. It  is
altogether a lovely picture.
   I was greatly impressed with the beauty
and  naturalness of the modern paintings of
the  Virgin,  especially  charming are  our
“Lady of  The Angels,” “The Virgin’s
Home” "The Virgin’s Thread,” Thayer’s
“The Virgin Enthroned,” and  Gabriel
Max’s	“Madonna	and Child,”	and
“The Annunciation”  by  Pearce.
    Certainly  my  appreciation  of  art and
beanty have been greatly widened by what
I saw   at  the   Great  Fair,  and I did not,
could not,  look at the display in  a captious
spirit.   I was  too  happy to have the priv-
ilege of wandering among the treasures, to
do aught but enjoy,  and skip  those parts I
did not fancy.   Nor was I like  some poor
dyspeptic always looking  down  for  the
debris of lunch  or litter of  a  crowd, but
ever, I hope, on the alert to see the bright
and beautiful about me.
   The French  exhibition  seemed to me to
be strongly  and  largely  voluptuous  and
sensuous.   The English, simple and pure,
or as one writer expresses it, “Wethank the
English  for  having  painted  the  nursery,
where the French  paint  the harem.    The

[Column 2]
American,   wholesome  and  healthy  as a
whole.
   Of course my special interest centered on
the Private and Art Loan collection,  which
was a  rare chance to  see at  home what  I
had small  chance of seeing abroad.   In the
Art Loan Collection I  was  greatly  disap-
pointed not to find some of the Old Masters,
but nevertheless there  were  many  master-
pieces of  the later schools.
	T.Rousseau’s “Near Barbizon” was an
exquisite landscape.
    Corrot,  Millet,  Troyon,  Messonier, and
many  more  were  there,   The  pathos  of
Millet’s style was beautifully expressed in.
“The Man With The Hoe” and “Bringing
Home The Calf.” The  poetry  of  Corrot
in “The Dance of the Nymphs,” “Even-
ing,” “The Path  To  The Village,” 
“Orpheus,” and several others gave  us his
soft,  rich  tones  and  beautiful  misty per-
pectives. Troyon’s poetical  pictures,  of
which “Going Home” was  a  beautiful
example, were there to the number of  four,
all rich in tone and ideally lovely.
	Cazin’s “Elsinore,” the home of Hamlet,
was an exquisite little piece, of  castle walls
and moat with back ground of dark cypress
trees,giving the effect of loneliness. “Mid-
night-Moonlight, Abbeyville,  was another
of  his I greatly admired.
   John Constable’s “Shepherd And Flock,”
a charming  pastoral scene with splendid
perspective.   The church is seen far in the
distance.  And, oh, so many more I feasted
my  eyes upon.
   And now for a few words on the Russian
department, the one  where I   found  what,
to me, were the most interesting pictures of
all,  with the exception perhaps  of some in
the Art Loan  Collection,  but certainly  of
the modern schools, the pictures I liked the
best.   This department I  visited  first  and
here I lingered at  the close of my last day
at  the Fair.   So  often we  see  pictures of
Moses as a pretty little babe in  his basket of
rushes,  but  in Ashnazy’s “Parents of
Moses" we  see his  home;  a most pathetic
picture to me;  to  be sure  the omnipresent
little Moses is here  too, in his  little basket,
where the loving hands of  his heart broken
Mother have placed him, as a last resort  to
save his precious life.   All the Mother love
is in her face and the agony of trusting his
preciousness to the frail basket;  but the de-
termination to try  it rather  than suffer the
more terrible  one  hanging  over his  little
head, of death.   The  Father  sits  looking
on with clenched hands  and lines of agony
in his face.   The interior of the  room and
the figures are Egyptian,  but  the  yearning
agony in  the Mother’s face,  is simply
human.
    Constantin Makovsky’s “Brides Attire”
was wonderfully rich in color and detail.
The eager expression of the groom, desirous
of entering the door, but  kept  back by the
mother’s hand was a  quiet  bit  of  humor.
The picture  was  full of  happiness.   The
same artist’s “Romeo and Juliet,” a charm-
ingly ideal couple, and delicate and refined
in color.
	Aviagovosky’s “Santa Maria   On   Its
Way to America,” when Columbus, during
a heavy storm,  was surrounded  by his re-
volting crew;  the  incessant  motion of the
waves, the conflict of the winds and waters,
the battle of  the clouds,  the meeting of the
sky and ocean on the sunlight horizon, and
the breaking of the storm,   where the light
strikes across  the  ship  in  a  rainbow   of
promise, are wonderfully impressive.
    There were  a large number of  pictures

[Column 3]

here worth hours of study and  contempla-
tion.
	Seimeradsky’s “Christ At The Home Of
Lazarus” was a beautiful picture,  restful
and  lovely  to look upon.   The  sunlight
filtering through the arbor at the side of the
house and on  the figure of Martha as  with
impatience written on  her  face, she  walks
down  the steps  toward  Jesus  and  Mary,
who  sit  conversing, the dove  cooing and
feeding  near.   The  white  light  of  the
Orient,  the coolness of  the arbor, the  sug-
gestion of a gentle breeze,  which seems to
move  the  leaves  as you  gaze,  with  just
color enough in the drapery  of  the figures
to  light  up   the dead   white,  was  very
beautiful.   There was always a  crowd of
admirers before this truly  religious picture.
    In the Woman’s building, the art display
was  most  creditable.   Among  the mural
decorations, the grand  hall  was a frieze at
each end painted by American women, Mrs.
McMonnies and Miss  Casset.   The former
shows a sure  hand and true conception  of
decorative art; a fresh and pure imagination,
and accords well with the idea of  the build-
ing intellectually and artistically considered.
Miss Casset’s, with  its crude greens  and
blues,  is  not  so  pleasing to my  eye,  nor
does it harmonize in  thought  with the rest
of  the decorations, tho’ the    border is
beautifully painted, the children charming.
The sarcasm implied in the panel where the
figure  of “Fame” is pursued by  women
and  geese, is anything but  flattering  to a
Woman’s Building;  but I suppose we must
take into consideration, the fact, that Miss
Casset is an apostle of “Impressionism”
and this an exponent, of the art.
    The library with its ceiling  and graceful
decoration, is a work  of art  in the highest
type.   The color of the room  is its crown-
ing charm,  being  a  subtle play  of  water
tints of greens, green  browns,  blue greens
and brown blues,  intermingling as they do
in nature and with  the same quiet  restful-
ness  of  effect.    The  harmonious coloring
the  graceful  grouping  and  thought  dis-
played in the beautiful ceiling of the library,
show us the possibilities of a most success-
ful future in Mrs. Wheeler’s chosen profes-
sion.
   Marie Bashkirtseff's painting of “Jean and
Jeaques” attracted  much  attention.   The
little brothers are very natural and cunning,
and  it  is a well painted  and  pleasing
picture.   Here  too  we  have  samples  of
Queen Victoria’s artistic talent, as   well as
that of some  of her  children.   I  was not
impressed  with  her  work.    The  pencil
sketch    of   her  little  terrier,  was only a
few lines suggesting a dog, and might have
been done by any school child.   The head
of  an  East  Indian   in  water  color,  the
Queen’s Indian  Secretary, was  very good.
Six Sketches, water color, views from  her
window at Balmoral and  one or  two more,
small water color and pencil sketches,  of no
merit whatever so far as I could see,  except
as  the work   of   a   Queen.       Princess
Christian’s work,   however,   had   some
merit.    In  fact  a picture  in oil  of an old
castle with  sunset  sky  effect  was  very
clever.    The  paintings of Princess Louise
and  Beatrice were  worth  looking at;  but
their mamma  had  no more  talent  than a
school girl’s first  attempts.      I  have  no
possibility of her coming to such knowledge
I feel free  to give  my  honest impressions.
    Of  the ‘‘Impressionists,’’with their crude
blues, greens and lavenders, dashed  on the


canvas in specks, their motto of “down
with conventions,’ and their theories of
perspective and indifference to detail, it is
said “they have come to stay.” Let us
hope in the future we may discover some of
the “truths” in this school and “honest
purpose’’ that is to influence the work of
all “coming artists.” If I attempt to de-
fine which school of painting I admire
most, taking school of painting in its
broadest sense, I would say I enjoyed the
Russian most. Their intenseness, their
rich yet tempered and gorgeous harmony
of color, their individuality in point of con-
ception, idea and power, gratify my taste
and feeling fully. They are neither
Realists nor Impressionists. Their religious
paintings have the impress of devoutness
and simple taste; their studies of nature are
in its grandest, its loveliest and most
natural phases. They do not effect the
nude, which I was thankful for, having
been surfeited on that in the French depart-
ment. While some of our American
artists,. Harrison for one, spoil beautiful
landscape effects, by painting naked women
in the foreground as for example “In
Arcadie.” It must be a master hand in-
deed, who can paint the nude that is not
coarse; and while I have yet many, very
many, pictures in my mind, I must not for-
get there are others whose impressions are
worthier than mine for your perusal, and
so give place to them.
The joy, the delight of those halcyon
days, of that festival beside the waters of
Lake Michigan, will live in my memory,
forever. It was a realization of my child-
hood’s dream of fairy-land. It is past, yet
who can estimate its marvelous effects on the
minds of those who were privileged to see
its beauties of architecture, its wealth of
art, its magnificent monuments and mar-
vels of science. That I was granted the
privilege of wandering through its broad
streets and sailing on its beautiful lagoons,
of enjoying the treasures housed in its
classic halls, causes my heart to swell with
gratitude. Many and fragrant are the
memories of the moments passed amid the
beauties and wonders of those treasure
houses.
“And when the stream,
Which overflowed the soul, was passed away,
A consciousness remained that it had left,
Deposited upon the silent shore 
Of memory, images and precious thoughts,
That shall not die, and cannot be destroyed.”
EDAHOO.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN.

	IN Olive Schreiner’s Book of Dreams, we
find the following: I stood looking over a
vast plane: a personage stood by my side;
in the distance I saw Man standing erect,
looking wistfully into the future; at his
feet lay what appeared a beast of burden,
indescribable,except that it was covered with
the accumulated dust of ages.
	I turned to my guide for instruction:
He said what you term a beast of burden
is Woman. “Why does she not rise?”
“She cannot.”
	Then I observed that she was bound with
chains, and that the chains extended to the
feet of the man: of this he seemed un-
conscions.
	Then by some unseen power her fetters
were broken, and in her large expressive
eyes I read the wish to be free—still she
remained motionless, weighted down by her

[Column 2]
many burdens. I said “Why does not
Man help her?” He answered, “He can-
not, she must help herself.” Then with a
mighty effort, quivering in every nerve, she
raised her head but soon sank again
exhausted.
	Such has been the history of Woman in
the past. She has been either bound by
the chains of slavery, or if endowed with
that fatal gift—beauty, she was used as a
toy, plaything, to be cast aside at the
pleasure of Man: the fetters may have been
of gold, but they were none the less
effectual.
	But a change has come: in this Nine-
teenth Century have the shackles, that so
long bound Woman in helplessness been
broken. Now it rests with her whether she
will rise to her full stature, and stand side
by side with Man, thus proving herself the
help-meet the Supreme Being designed she
should be. Nor can humanity make any
further progress until women are able to fill
this position.
	In the year 1848 the first Woman’s Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, presiding.
Woman’s Rights, or rather her wrongs
were discussed. From that day to the
present, the emancipation of woman has
met with a vast amount of opposition the
opposition, though less strong to day, still
continues. Yet in the last 45 years a great
work has been accomplished. Wonderful
changes have taken place. Educational
institutions have opened their doors.
In many avenues of employment work can
now be found. The right to hold property
is unquestioned. Colorado and Wyoming
have granted full suffrage, to Woman.
Some other States have partially conferred
this right. All this has been accomplished
through the indefatigable efforts of Mrs.
Stanton and her heroic co-laborers. But
much remains undone, and there is need of
many earnest workers.
in the World’s Parliament of Religions,
recently held in Chicago, representatives
from every civilized nation, attended the
Woman’s Congress, thus giving evidence
of the complete organizations and the deep
interest felt in this most important move-
ment.
	Of those attending, perhaps none acquit-
ted themselves with greater credit than did
the Women of Utah. There, by principles
advanced, their audience was held spell-
bound, and so much interested did they be-
come that many sought further information
through private interviews.
	It is well known that in some respects,
the rights of Woman have been more gen-
erously conceded in our fair Territory than
in any other part of the Union, probably
of the world, and for that reason as well as
others that might be given, we should be
alive to every call that may improve our
political status and qualify us to be repre-
sentative women of America. E. S.
Provo.


A PLEA FOR MORE KINDNESS,
AMONG WOMEN.

BY ALTA WITBECK.

	To every woman whose eyes these words
may reach, I would say: Be kind to
your own sex. Would that my voice
could reach the farthest ends of the earth
when I write ‘‘Women why so unkind to
each other?"


We see it every day in every position and
avenue of life—on the street, in the stores,
on the cars and even in the Churches I am
often actually heart sick at Woman’s Cruelty,
and indifference to each other, cruel both in
words—looks and deeds.
	A tired, delicate, or aged lady will get
in a car comfortably filled with women and
not one attempt to move closer to make
more room, and the elevated eyebrows, the
shrugging shoulders—and oft times mut-
tered words,often sink deep in honest hearts
there to corrode and embitter life perhaps
and again in Social life who is woman’s
worst enemy whose cutting, malignant and
inconsiderate words often mars the whole
life of a young woman.
	I tell you my Sister Woman is not the op-
posite sex whose words slash us, it is our
own petty feelings ard glib tongues which
can account for in no way without it is a
bit of the “Original Sin” left in us.
	But we reccolect the words of one who
said
"There is no thing we cannot Overcome
Say not thy, evil instinct is inherited,
Or that some trait unborn makes thy life forlorn,
Back of thy parents and grandparents lies
The great Eternal Will!
That, too, is thine inheritance:—
Strong—beautiful—divine
Some Lever of Success for one who tries"
	And shall we not try to be more loving,
more charitable? We are made of one clay,
children of one Father, with common hopes
and aspirations.
	Shall we not strive then to be known as
women whose words and deeds are those of
kindness to each other—thereby getting
for ourselves a reputation which says to the
world "Here is a gracious womanly wo-
man—pure in heart—loving in nature, and
noble in character."


“THE Bombay Guardian, Dec. 23, re-
ports the safe arrival of Dr. Kate Bushnell
and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew from England,
enroute to Burmah and China. They at-
tended and addressed the Bombay District
Conference of the American Methodist
Mission, then in session at Bombay. They
were conducted by Mr. W. J. Gladwin and
were invited to the platform by Bishop
Thoburn, who formally introduced them to
the Conference.”


THE PUREST GIFT

IN my heart are places many,
	Which I give to bless mankind
One for sympathy, and pity, 
	Patience too a home doth find,
A home for thanks and gratitude
	“For mercies shown to me,” 
Forgiveness may it claim its part,
	Wherever I may be.
A place for joy and sorrow each
	For fortitude and strength,
That I may try to faithful be,
	And find that home at length.
A little home for faith is there
	And generosity,
And little faults, that I well know,
	Which never ought to be.
Deep in the center of the heart,
	With all these gifts around, 
There is the dearest gift of all
	That in the heart is found;
For there’s the grandest power of all
	Which mortals class above
All gifts on earth or heaven’s land,
	That little word called love.
	ZINA E. CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build
-ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S PARTY.

	THE magnificent Salt Lake Temple was. indeed a fitting and appropriate place to as-
semble in, to celebrate the anniversary of
tbe birthday of the beloved veteran Presi-
dent of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints. It was surely an inspira-
tional thought which suggested that his
friends should gather in honor of this great 
and venerable man within those sacred
walls. His connection with the history of 
this Territory as a pioneer, his standing
with President Young on that very spot in 
1847, and hearing that great leader make
the remark that it was the very place where 
the Temple should be erected, and watch-
ing as he has the progress of the work
thereon from the first breaking of the 
ground until the whole splendid edifice was
completed, and his life having been many
times miraculously preserved and hs de-
sires granted that he might live until it was
finished, his succession to the Presidency,
making him the central figure on that won-
derful occasion, are all facts fraught with
such importance, that to celebrate his an-
niversary therein seems the most proper
and natural thing to render honor where
honor is due. 
	About one o’clock when the people were
gathered in one of the large halls, President
Woodruff rose graciously, and welcomed
his friends with such a spirit of love and
sincerity, that all realized the blessing in 
the few words so fervently spoken. 
	The exercises opened with music by the 
Temple choir, and President George Q. 
Cannon offered an eloquent prayer the
choir sang again and brief congratulatory 
addresses were made by Presidents Lorenzo
Snow and Joseph F. Smith. A song writ-
ten for the occasion by Elder H. W. 
Naisbett was sung to the tune of “Auld
Lang Syne,” by W. C. Dunbar the 
audience joining in the chorus. Apostle
Franklin D. Richards gave a short address
in which he expressed the most tender 
affection for the President, and alluded to
his life and labors in the most glowing
terms. 
	Sister E. B. Wells then read the poem
given below written by Sister E. H. Wood-
mansee. 
	EXPRESSION OF ESTEEM.

’Tis fit that loving friends should bring,
	Sweet floral offerings fresh and gay;
'Tis fit that Zion’s bards should sing, 
	A jubilant and festive lay
	On Wilford Woodruft’s natal day.

[Column 2]
Or rich, or poor, whate’er their sphere
	Honor to whom is honor due;
Honor to God’s anointed seer!
	Honor to Zion’s chieftain true!
	May gracious heaven his strength renew.
“An Israelite devoid of guile,”
	To honesty itself akin
Noble his record, clear and clean
	Through many long decades of trial,
Through many a soul-appalling scene. 
Born in a most important time,
Number’d amongst a chosen few—
Sent down to fill a role sublime—
A glorious, marv’lous work to do;
	Pertaining to an era new. 
A dispensation long desired,
	And waited for by seers of old;
A dispensation that required
	The noblest spirits brave and bold,
To storm Tradition’s powerful hold. 
Joseph, the youthful Prophet had
	Sore need of heroes in the field;
Who in the Gospel armor clad,
inspired with faith and light revealed,
	Fought for the Truth and would not yield. 
Faith, steadfast faith, was unsubdued—
Unconquered and unterrified,
When howling mobs, the Saints pursued;
	And dealt distress on ev’ry side
	And drove them to these valleys wide. 
These shelter’d valleys fair and broad,
	That ne’er shall be the foeman’s spoil,
Here in this refuge, long untrod—
Our Hero first upturned the sod—
And planted seed in virgin soil. 
The wilderness is nowhere seen.
	The desert is redeemed from drought,
Her summer robes of emerald green
	Are rich and beautiful throughout;
	The Source of blessings, who can doubt?
Oppressions’s hand so oft upraised
	To vex or put the Saints to flight,
is turn’d aside, the Lord be praised.
Who from the gloom evolveth light
	And ordereth everything aright. 
"Amid the mountain tops” behold!
	The Temple towers salute the sky;
The angel lifts his trump of gold,
	And sends afar the warning cry,
“Repent, the judgment hour is nigh.’
’Tis written, "judgment shall begin, 
	At God’s own sacred house,” and hence
A part of Bab’lon’s strife and din.
Trouble and woe and dire suspense,
E’en Zion’s children needs must sense.
The prophecies we see fulfilled,
	The long predicted woes appear
The stoutest hearts, the strongest willed,
	And mightiest nations quake for fear;
Zion’s redemption draweth near. 
All Zion’s friends should now rejoice.
	So softened are her waning foes,
Hosanna sing with heart and voice,
	For favors that the Lord bestows:'
Upon the people of His choice.
Peace, shall descend like heavenly dew,
	And on our host and hostess rest;
Forever shall their joys accrue,
Yea, for the good they’ve done, and do,
	Truly they are and shall be blest.
Oh, may we all, as in the past,
	However tried by needful cares,
Cling to the truth and hold it fast,
	Lest peradventure, unawares,
We’ll lose “the priceless pearl” at last. 

[Column 3]
Narrow “the way” and strait indeed, 
	Yet wherefore should we be cast down?
"God is our help in times of need,”
And fittingly ’tis thus decreed—
Endurance wins the promised crown. 
	President George Q. Cannon was the 
next speaker. He referred to the depth of 
the love that existed between President
Woodruff and all who had ever been called
to associate with him, to his guilelessness, 
his honesty, his consideration for others’
feelings and views, and to the great bless-
ings that had come to Israel through his
ministrations and preservation. 
	President Woodruff himself followed. 
He observed that his brethren had said a
great deal about his virtues but not one
word as to his imperfections—which he
knew he had, like all other mortals. From
one part of their testimony, however, he 
felt that he might not deviate in the slight-
est degree, and that was their allusion to
the power of God that had preserved and 
sustained him. To Him he felt to give the
glory; and as to whether his remaining
time on earth should be brief or extended,
he had no desires save that all of it should 
be employed in God’s service. His remarks
were full of promise and inspiration, and 
they were listened to with the profoundest
interest. 
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith called at-
tention to the historical incident, and testi-
fied of it, that so far as she knew President
Woodruff and herself were the only living
persons,who had received their endowments
under the personal ‘authority and adminis-
tration of the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo. 
	Intermission was announced and more
music given while Bishop J. R. Winder,
who, was in charge, lead the way to the 
dining hall. The arrangements for this
part of the program were excellent, and the
refreshments were delicious and tastefully 
served to the guests, by a dozen or more 
young men and women, who seemed to en-
joy the service. 
	After the intermission the party re-
assembled and listened to more music and 
short speeches by Elder H. J. Grant, Geo.
Goddard, M. W. Merrill, Ezra T. Clark and
A H. Cannon. Br. Clark alluded to the
meeting in Nauvoo after the death of the 
Prophet Joseph when the mantle of Joseph
fell upon Brigham Young, Sister Zina D. 
H. Young testified to the same historic 
fact and said if she had closed her eyes she 
would have felt positive it was Joseph’s
voice.
	Elder David McKenzie then read a poem
written by H. W. Naisbitt entitled “The
Veteran of our Home,” (Affectionately ad-
dressed to President Woodruff on his 87th 
birthday March 1st, 1894.) The remarks
of Br. Clark and Sister Zina in reference to 
the occasion when it became conclusively 
evident to the majority of the assembly 
present that the mantle of Joseph had fallen
upon Brigham suggested to the Presidency
that all present who heard the sermon
should rise to their feet. Those who re-
sponded were eighteen in number those 
who knew Joseph in Kirtland there were
seven. Those who knew the Prophet
Joseph during his lifetime thirty nine. 
	President George Q. Cannon announced 
that as all present would like to shake hands
with President Woodruff and his wife in 
whose honor the party was given, they 
would conclude with an informal reception
to give all the opportunity of congratulating


and shaking hands with the President and
Sister Emma Woodruff. The Doxology
was sung and the guests in turn offered
their personal greetings which was a suita-
ble closing to a very happy and pleasant
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE silk bill asking for the bounty on
cocoons to encourage sericulture which 
passed both Houses of the recent Legisla-
ture was vetoed by the Governor, for
reasons he considered sufficiently important
to justify, among which were the financial
condition of the Territory which precluded
further taxation and the Democrat principle
of equality for all, special privileges for
none, also the many industries asking for
bounties etc.
	THE Library bill which passed was also
vetoed and although a Committee of ladies
called upon the Governor requesting him to
reconsider the veto, he defended his position
and positively declined to do anything.
	SOME other bills containing objectional
measures to women interested in public 
matters to which suffrage women had ob-
jected were either killed or so far modified as
to need no further protest.
	The memorial presented by the Hon.
John E. Booth of Provo asking that the
franchise be restored to the women of Utah
was approved by the Legislature in both
Houses and signed by the Governor. The
Memorial signed by prominent women of
the Territory asking that the Woman's 
Industrial Home in this City be given for a
Woman’s Hospital, was appended to a
memorial from the Legislature to the Con-
gress of the United States and that also re-
ceived the Governor’s signature.
	WE regret exceedingly that the union of
colleges was not effected and that the 
University received so small an apprpria-
tion, but hope something may yet be done
to save that institution which has been so
useful and beneficial in times past, and for
which such great exertions have been made;
surely the people will be loyal to themselves
in this matter and not allow it to go back-
ward in this age of progress. Whatever
may be said of the old residents of Utah, it
cannot be truthfully said they have not
made great exertions to promote the higher
education of the young people. The
University has always maintained a
standard of which the people might well be 
proud notwithstanding the circumstances of 
colonizing in a new country.
	THE National Press Association of 
Washington D. C. are about to make a tour
to the Midwinter Fair and have invited the 
writer to extend the invitation
to some of her friends; they will stop over
here return a short time on their return
from the Coast, when the intention is to give
them a hearty welcome and some sort of 
suitable demonstration.
	A business session of the Utah W. S.
A. will be held at eleven A. M. on Wedsns-
day April the 4th, in the office of the Wo-
man's Exponent, Room 228 Constitution
Building, Main St.,Territorial Officers, Hon-
orary Vice Presidents and all officers and 
delegates from the Auxiliary Associations
are urgently requested to attend. There
will be a meeting of the Utah W. S. A. 
held on Wednesday afternoon, April 4th,
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, com-
mencing at 3 p. m., when it is confidently 
hoped there will be a good attendance of
officers and members from the outside
counties, some prominent people have been 
invited to speak, and the meeting will
doubtless be an interesting one.
	THE National Woman's Relief Society
will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday
April 5, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at
eleven A. M. for the transaction of such
business as may come before the Board of 
Directors.
	Zina D. H. Young, President.
	E. B. Wells, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE general conference of the Relief 
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, in this city, on Thursday,
April 5th, commencing at 9 a. m., 2
p. m.—two sessions. It is very
desirable that the president of each Stake
organization, or one of the board should at-
tend this conference, as there will be mat-
ters of importance considered. 
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
	President.
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	Counselors.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI- MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies' Semi-monthly
Meeting, held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Rooms, Jan 27, 1894.
	President M. I. Horne presiding, "When
the voice of friendship's heard." Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, "O, God we raise to thee."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. President M. I. Horne said, "I
hope we shall have a time of refreshing, on
this lovely day. I am so glad that the
winter has not been a very severe one.
The Lord surely tempers the elements for
the good of His people.
	Spoke of the troublous times, which was
one sign given in prophecy which was to
precede his second coming.
	Said the present depression was one of
the signs for men’s hearts do fail them, for
they know not what is coming.
	Spoke of a Psalm of David, which
speaks of the people coming to a wilderness
of the many blessings here received, and
then after that they should again be brought
here, yet the Lord will bring us out of all
our distresses, and we will see His mighty
deliverance. The Prophet Joseph also ut-
tered the same warnings. Sisters sang a
hymn.
	President Z. D. H. Young, said "I esteem
this a great privilege, to meet with you.
The question comes to my mind, as sung in
the hymn, "How will Zion be free?" By
serving our God these few sisters here are
going to be free. Faithfulness to the Gos-
pel will make men and women free. Spoke
of the Temple, said every stone is a free
will offering of the saints. Think of it
sisters a temple where God and Heavenly
beings can come. Think of our young
ladies, hear them speak and testify, hear
their essays, full of the Gospel, full of in-
telligence. My heart is full of thankfulness
for these things. Sisters if all appreciated
the good received in these meetings, there
would not be a vacant seat in the room. I
ask God to bless every one who will bear

[Column 2]
their testimony.
	Sister Hazon desired more confidence to
speak of the goodness of God.
	Sister E. Barrus desired to put her trust
in God and do her duty.
	Sister Phelps felt that the Lord would
pour out blessings for the great work now
being done in the Temple. Prayed that the
Lord would give us hearts of firmness,
that we may not be turned from the truth.
	Sister Tate felt thankful for a standing in
the church, knew that this was the work of
God, and desired to be faithful.
	Sister Irvine said we come here for a
blessing yet, we often go away without it
because we do not bear testimony. I feel
thankful to my Heavenly Father for every-
thing I have had to pass through and
humbly ask to be kept faithful.
	Sister Aird said I have seen the power of
the Lord made manifest, have seen those al-
most dead raised by the power of God.
	Sister Minners felt blessed in bearing her
testimony, knew this was the work of God,
and desired to be faithful to the end.
	Two sisters in the congregation bore
faithful testimonies and said many good
things.
	Sister Larson offered a fervent prayer for
the poor, the sick and the afflicted.
	Sister Jane James and a number of
sisters bore testimony. Every one speak-
ing desired the blessing promised by
President Z. D. H. Young it was truly a
time of rejoicing.
	Sisters Phebe C. Young and Mary
Bassett added their testimony, also Sister
Workman.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy of Payson spoke
well and at some length, bearing testimony.
	Sisters Forsyth and J. C. Howe bore
excellent testimonies.
	Sister Frances Smith and L. D. Alder
followed.
	President Z. D. H. Young spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters, said she had been
edified by the many faithful and wonderful
testimonies borne. Sisters let us learn to
say "Thy will be done, God bless you for-
ever."
	President M. I. Horne said, sisters let us
profit by the lessons learned here today.
We are all in the hands of the Lord, and
we know "Whom He loveth He chasteneth"
May the blessings of God go with you to
your homes. Meeting was adjourned for
two weeks. Sang "Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing." Benediction by Counselor
E. Stevenson.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


MME. ELISE HWASSER, who died re-
cently, was for forty years the greatest
Swedish actress. Mme Hwasser delineated
the heroines in Ibsen’s dramas, and also
played the leading Shakesperian roles.
She retired to private life in 1888.
	MISS MARTHA E. PARKER is secretary of
the New England Tariff Reform League.
Miss Parker became a clerk in the office of
the league four years ago, when the Hon.
Charles S. Hamlin, now an assistant
secretary of the treasury, was secretary.
Temporarily she undertook the duties of
the office when Mr. Hamlin resigned, and
the league, recognizing her efficiency and
familiarity with the work, have since made
her permanent acting secretary. She has
charge of the League headquarters Bos-
ton, where a number of clerks are kept
busy, and a large correspondence is carried
on.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY.

	[Continued.]
	THE speaker commented at length upon
this point, and illustrated how fallacious it
was to bring up objections from an individu-
al standard. He then continued.
	“There is another reason why I think
that women ought to enjoy these rights.
A perfect human being should be equally
developed physically, mentally and morally,
or we might put it still finer than that,
spiritually. It takes all these to make a
complete development of character. If we
cultivate any one of these at the expense of
the others, while we may become eminent
in a single line, still we are not well
balanced. Now, I take it that a com-
munity should be made up in the same way,
and as we change in circumstances we,
necessarily, must change in other ways,
to my thinking, and we are changing in
circumstance. Centuries ago war was the
thing. A man that could fight was sup-
posed to be at the head of everything, and
we have not entirely got over that. But
the chances are wars will not be prosecuted
so vigorously or so frequently as they have
been in the past. The moral force is com-
ing to the front. If a man is educated
physically entirely, he loses both his ability
and his respect for the things he has not
developed, as it requires, in order to make
a perfect human being, that all these at-
tributes should be developed, should be
drawn out and encouraged. I think it ap-
plies in the same way to political govern-
ment; and whenever we sacrifice any one of
these traits for the further development of
the other, then we are making a grave mis-
take. Now, the trouble is how to remedy
that; we have been, in this country, de-
veloping the physical and intellectual,
more or less, at the expense of the moral
and the spiritual, and therefore we have
some very eminent men with regard to
both of these, not only of national but 
world wide reputation. We take illustra-
tions of it. We have seen recently the re-
sults of physical depelopment and there
are some people who take very great de-
light in witnessing such exhibitions. That
illustration was an exhibition of what I
call brute force. I do not care so much for
an exhibition of that kind as an individual.
I regard it much in this way. There are two
animals—I use the brute term of animal to
include both—one is a man, and the other
is a mule. Man may be intelligent, but in
this case I would give more for the mule
than I would the man, merely because the
mule gives better service; I can get more
out of him. We have been in our prepara-
tions in this country, not only in Utah—I
am speaking of the United States—very
lavish, at least sometimes, in the ex-
penditure of public money. This territory
has been lavish in the expenditure of
money for education. I do not believe
there is such another case in history, such
as we can show. Three-fifths, of the entire
revenue of the territory is devoted to school
purposes, and out of the two-fifths of the
territorial revenue we support the Reform
School, the Agricultural College, and the
University of Utah. Again the expense of
collecting the three-fifths of this territorial
revenue, that is, in assessing the property
and collecting the tax, comes out of the
two-fifths. So it presents to us something 
that I believe is unparalleled in, history—
that is to say our generosity in favor of

[Column 2]
education. I believe it is exacting from us
more than it should do by reason of our
circumstances. But we have been very
lavish in our expenditure of public money,
and showing we are very much in
earnest in regard to this mattter of educa-
tion. Now, we have had some develop-
ment of the physical nature, and that has
been going on since 1847; it has been kept
up ever since. We have worked physically
and we have generally earned our living by
physical exercise. Of course there have
been some exceptions; but I am speaking
generally. Now we turned to this intel-
lectual matter, yet we are lacking some-
what in the spiritual or the moral traits. I
do not mean to say we are behind in morals
or manners, but I am speaking of what we
lack in regard to a perfect government.
Now, how shall we remedy this? I believe
the question before us this afternoon is a
complete remedy for the matter. The
moral and spiritual part of man are de-
veloped by cultivation, and yet the moral
and spiritual traits are implanted in women
very early. It is also a fact that is very
patent to me, that women have more of
these traits than men. Women are natural-
ly better than men when it comes to mat-
ters of kindness. I have discovered that
from my association with them ever since I
was a boy. In some respects they are better
than men.
	Take girls from the time they start at school,
say from fourteen to sixteen years of age,
and they lead boys in almost every study.
There are some studies they do dot lead in,
such as mathematics, philosophy, Astronomy
and kindred subjects. Speaking of these
subjects generally, without singling out
individuals, I believe that men lead in these
studies. But in things that pertain to kind-
ness, women keep the lead all their lives.
Now, if a matter of right and wrong is
presented to a man and woman, and you
ask them for an opinion right away, the
woman does not stop to argue or think
about the subject, she will give an answer
immediately as to whether the matter is
right or wrong. The man, if he answers
immediately the chances are that he will
be wrong. But let the man take the
question into his study, and there ponder
over it, perhaps get his library down to
consult about it, and give his opinion, say
in a week; he will then be about as right as
the woman was. But it does not take her
such a long time to form her ideas; she
grasps the question of right and wrong
very much sooner. That is what we want
in this government; we want that element
put into our political constitution, into the
civil polity of the nation. Sometimes we
are called upon to act immediately.
Our political government embraces all parties,
boards of education, boards of every kind
of institutions, legislatures, &c. and I say
that if we had some women in such in-
stitutions, matters that occasionally come
up would be much sooner straightened out.
(Applause.) I am not going to name such
women; but so far as the Legislature is con-
cerned I would willingly trade off some
men in that body for some women.
(Applause.) It might not suit the men, but
it would suit my ideas. Now, I do not
know how long it will be until we reach
all these things. We are getting better;
we are getting a better understanding of
these things. As to the objectious fre-
quently raised against granting women the
franchise I do not think, as I have already

[Column 3]
said, they are well taken. Many people
say, “I do not want my wife to be con-
tinually running away from home.” Again,
some people say, if the women voted they
would vote as the husband says. But I
hold this as a true proposition, that a wo-
man does not lose any of her rights by
reason of marrying. I believe the wo-
man is an absolute entity of herself, and no
man, husband or otherwise, has the right to
interfere with her against her consent. I
have seen the time, of course, in this ter-
ritory when women had the franchise. The
objection was then raised that they voted
just as their husbands told them. If they
did, there was great credit due to the hus-
band—quite a feather in his cap. That is
one of the strongest evidences I know of
that he is right. But I do not think the
men interfered with them in their voting.
I do not know of it. I never asked my
wife which way she was going to vote, or
indicated to her which way she should vote.
I think she is a better woman than any other
woman (the present company excepted.) I
think, however, if I had undertaken to in-
struct her as to how she should vote she
would have used the expression that I re-
member seeing when I was a boy in
England. The expression was engraved in
brass, and contained only four or five
words. I think she would have referred
me to that expression; it pertained to the
Mormon creed—“Mind your own business,"
and if she did not say that she ought to.
She had the right to do it. Therefore, I say
that the women would exercise the franchise
just as well as the men. I do advise
these meetings. I advise that you study
the political situation; that you particularly
commence to learn how to conduct matters.
I persume the first thing women will get
into at all will be matters pertaining to
schools. These matters are conducted
much more simply than are the heavier
matters of a city council, county courts,
and legislative assemblies. But I would
advise that occasionally you have somebody
drop into such meetings, attend the county
courts, city councils, &c. Of course some-
times when you do attend, you will be sor-
ry you went; because things are not al-
ways conducted with great big dignity the
same as they are at home. In these de-
liberative bodies, sometimes the members
get warm and say things that had better
been left unsaid. But attend these meet-
ings when you can. I believe you will be
welcome, and you will learn, from actual
practice, much better than you can from
reading books. You may study from books,
but practical experience is the best. It is a
good thing to go to these places and watch
the proceedings, and when you see things
done that you do not approve of, learn how
to avoid them in the future, and when you
see things that you approve of, learn to use
them in days to come. It is necessary to
acquire such information, not that our ways
are always right. A story is told of a cer-
tain jury. They came out of the jury
room, twelve of them, and they did not
agree. Somebody inquired of one of the
jurymen how it was they could not agree.
Well, he replied, there were eleven fools on
the jury, and I would not go with them.
	Well, there is no need of getting so very
wise. There is no need of assuming that
we are right and that everybody else is
wrong. Acquire knowledge and then ap-
ply it. Knowledge is a very fine
thing, but it is not worth anything unless


you can apply it. Learn to apply that
knowledge. Of course you understand a
great deal of that kind of knowledge which
applies inside of your own doors. I will
consent to that without argument. I yield
the point so far as you have been used, to
domineering—is that too strong?—Well, we
will say having dominion, that will modify 
the matter a little, but I wont come down
much more than that. I suppose you in-
herit it.
	I find my time is up. I desire to thank
you very much for your invitation, and for
the patient manner in which you have
listened to me. I desire to join with you in
this movement; and the time will come—I
expect to live to see it—when this question
of sex will be eliminated from our civil
politics and never again be revived. I hope
to see that day. I have worked for it, I
am still continuing to work for it, and I
never yet voted against a measure that
tended to promote this question. I thank 
you for your attention. I must now catch
my train. (Applause.)
	The next exercise was by Miss Babcock
who recited with fine effect a poem en-
titled “A Woman’s Question.”
[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held Feb. 20th,
at the residence of Mrs. McCune 270 W.
South Temple, 1st, Vice President Eardley
in the chair. Sang "Raise the Flag."
Prayer by M. W. Wilcox. Sang "Awake
oh ye daughters." Roll call, minutes read
and accepted. Paper read by Mary A.
Freeze entitled "A Jubilee Poem," second
Vice President E. M. Price gave a very
eloquent lecture on Statesmanship, showing
Queen Elizabeth of England to have been
possessed of rare ability in the line, though
only a woman. Mrs. E. J. Lyon sang
"Hard Times." Reading, Josiah Allen's
Allegory on Woman's Rights, by M. E.
Bassett. Territorial President E. B. Wells
made a brief speech especially commended
the lecture given by Mrs. Price, and men-
tioned topics suitable for the meetings
recommended speaking without papers as
good practice.
	Ter. Vice President Mrs. Richards was
gratified to hear Mrs. Price's lecture; also to
notice that she gave it without notes, spoke
of a club to which she belonged where the
use of manuscript was prohibited. Refered
to the debate of Sunday evening on wo-
man suffrage. Thought Dr. Ferguson a
very able advocate heard many say that
they were well pleased with her arguments.
Felt when she (Mrs. Richards) received the
invitation, to speak before the Democrat
Club that it was interested in the subject, had
been told by Legislators, that if Utah were
a State, women should have the suffrage.
Ter. Prest. E. B. Wells thought our great-
est opposition would come from women
themselves. Thought we should have to
work hard to convert them.
	Dr. Ferguson said she would rather talk
to those who oppose, would like to over-
come their prejudices, we ought to try to
get them to our meetings, something might
be said that would help to allay their op-
position.
	Dr. Mattie H. Cannon, said she was in-
terested in our cause, came to hear about

[Column 2]
the bills now before the house looked for-
ward to the time when she could vote.
Had paid ten dollars to become an Ameri-
can citizen and voted twice, thought these
rather dear votes.
	Ter. President E. B. Wells explained in
reference to the bills in the legislature one
was dead and the other changed satis-
factorily.
	The chairman then called for speeches,
C. C. R. Wells made a motion that Dr.
Ferguson receive a vote of thanks for the 
part she took in the debate. The chairman
thought all suffragists heartily thanked her.
A few other suggestions were made and the
meeting adjourned 'till the 3rd Tuesday in
March.
	M. E. IRVINE, Sec.

	BOUNTIFUL W. S. A.

	FEBRUARY 12th, at 2 o'clock was the 
annual meeting of the Woman Suffrage
Association of South Bountiful. After
some able speeches from various ones, the
financial report was read and on motion
was accepted.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark President of Davis
Co. took the chair, while the organization
was completed with Mrs. Mary A. Page,
President, and Betsy J. Howard Secretary.


R. S. & P. A. REPORTS.

	THE Relief Society of South Bountiful held
an extra meeting Feb. 12. Very instructive
remarks were made by President Susan
Grant and Counselor of the Davis Stake. 
Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Carrie E
Dye from Salt Lake City addressed the 
audience (which was large) explaining in
an interesting way many duties that rest
on us as wives and mothers. Counselor
Hyrum Grant of the Stake Presidency, 
spoke of the good the Society is doing and 
the magnitude of the work the sisters are 
engaged in. Bishop Richard E. Egan en-
couraged the society of South Bountiful to 
keep on, and not tire in well doing. He 
had greatly appreciated their labors in the
past. 
	Meeting adjourned, all feeling to rejoice 
greatly in the good things they had heard. 
			SARAH A. HOWARD, Prest.
			MARY A. PAGE, Sec. 
	
	UTAH PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

	THE Primary Association of Utah Stake
met in conference at Provo, on Thursday
February 22nd, 1894. An officers meet-
ing was held at ten o'clock, at which ver-
bal reports of the different Association were
given by the Ward Presidents. 
	Conference convened at 2 o'clock. The 
program was good and reflected great credit
upon the ladies who teach the children, as 
well as the diligence and capacity of the 
children themselves; the main feature of
the program was the following poem, com-
posed by Mrs. Sarah Goodman, and dictated 
to the memory of our beloved President, 
Sister Annie K. Smoot.
There’s a love that we owe to Annie K. S[---],.
For instructions and teachings to us here below, 
She has left us and gone to the realms upon high, 
She will follow her works with God in the sky. 
Oft times we enjoyed the sweet spirit of God
Then we met her in counsel in labors of love, 
She was noble in action and kind when she'd 
	speak,
She enjoyed God's spirit with the humble and 
	meek. 
Annie K. was a teacher of light
To the Primary children with memory bright, 
She loved and blest them and taught them the 
	truth
For a guide to their memory, while traveling in 
	youth. 
Oh Father in Heaven help us to endure
The loss of a sister, whom we almost adore, 
She was earnest in duty and now she is called
To the region of bliss with the Saints of the Lord
May God bless her counsel who stood by her side
In transaction of duty with God for their guide, 
And the many sweet hours of intelligent work
They humbly gave to the children on earth. 
Farewell dear departed thou hast taken thy flight
To dwell with the righteous in the Mansion of 
	light, 
We ask thy kind visits to enlighten our minds
That we may prove faithful to the end of our time.


The recent death of Mrs. Annie K. 
Smoot vacated all the county officers. Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton was elected president,
with Mrs. Eliza Taylor first counselor
(which place she occupied formerly) and
Mrs. A. B. Selk as second counselor, Miss
Ida L. Cheever as secretary, and Mrs. Mat-
tie Nelson as treasurer, these ladies were
set apart by Bros. John and Partridge of the
Stake Presidency.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the re-
tiring ladies, and President John spoke very
kindly of their good work in the Primary
Associations.
	Sister Sarah E. Cluff, who formerly acted
as second counselor, felt that the many
trials through which she had passed in the
last year, rendered it necessary for a time.
Felt to sustain the new officers with all her
heart. Mrs. Cluff’s labors have been highly
appreciated, and the blessings of the As-
sociation attend her in her retirement.
	Many kind and encouraging things were
said and conference adjourned for six
months.
	IDA CHEEVERS, Stake Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

[Written for the Davis Co. Convention.]

	The Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, like all other associations, has its ob-
ject in view which is the enfranchisement
of all women. Women are the mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters of men, and
speaking of them universally their minds
are equally as strong and perceptible. We
are all the children of Adam and Eve, and
in the second chapter of Genesis we are
told that God said it is not good that man
should be alone and so created woman for a
helpmeet for him, now do you think he
would have created an inferior being for a
helpmeet or companion for man, who had
been created in the image of God, and
where is the man that today would marry a
wife he thought inferior to himself. This
would be degrading to the human race, for
were this the case man would be superior
to his own offspring. The idea that it is
not necessary for girls to be educated is
gradually dying.
	The mother who tutors and brings up
her children to love freedom, to walk in the
paths of morality, should be an educated
woman here comes in equality in education
and we believe in equality before the law.
The nation has at present its fathers but no
mothers. Wherever women have had the
ballot they have used it in the interests of
home and against the saloons, the gambling
houses,and the haunts of infamy. All who
assist in bearing the burdens of the govern-
ment, should share in its privileges and in
the progress of civilization, we expect to
see this come along justice is equality and
equality is justice. It is a principle of our
government that taxation must not be with-
out representation. If women holding
property are to be taxed it follows that wo-
men should be represented by their votes.
Those who are ruled by law should have
the power to say what shall be the
law and who the law-makers. Women are
as much interested in legislation as men and
are entitled to representation.
	One principal cause of the failure of so


many magnificent schemes, social, political
and religious is claimed to be because the
rights and powers of one half the human
race (namely that of the women) have been
ignored.
	Everything to work properly must be
equally balanced. One scarcely need glance
into politics to be assured of the corruption
thereof. Then ask Wyoming about woman
Suffrage. Wherever woman is permitted
to go her influence is felt for refinement, and
today Wyoming stands as an example for
all the States and Territories.
	SARAH A. HOWARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE FIRST WOMAN LAWYER.

	MRS. MYRA BRADWELL, editor of the
Chicago Legal News, died Feb. 14. She
was born in Manchester, Vt., Feb. 11, 1831.
Her parents were Eben and Abigail Colby.
She went West with her parents fifty-two
years ago. In 1852, she was married to
James B. Bradwell, a rising young lawyer,
and under his instructions began the study
of law.
	She was the first woman who applied for
admission to the Bar in the United States
Her application was refused, but she car-
ried her case to the Supreme Court of the
United States. The court decided that her
marriage was a bar to her admission and
denied her petition.
	Twenty years afterward this decision
was reconsidered and reversed, and Mrs.
Bradwell was admitted to the Bar. In the
meantime she had established the Legal
News.
	Mrs. Bradwell was a woman of much
ability and character, and always a warm
advocate of equal rights for her sex.—Ex.


GOD GIVE US MEN.

God give us men! A time like this demands
Great hearts, strong minds, true faith and willing
	hands.
Men whom the lust of offices does not kill:
	Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy;
Men who possess opinions and a will;
	Men who have honor, men who will not lie.
For while the rabble, with their thumb worn
	creeds,
Their large professions and their little deeds,
Wrangle in selfish strife—lo! Freedom weeps,
Wrong rules the land and waiting justice sleeps.
	OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.


IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret we record the death of a
beloved sister, Esther Catherine Park Lusk,
daughter of John and Matilda Park; she was born
June 12th, 1838, Gibson Co, Tennessee, died
October 29th, 1893. Losing her father in
Tennessee she moved with her mother to Illinois
and from there to Council Bluffs. In the summer
of 1867 she came to Utah with her mother; she
was baptized in her childhood.
March 5th, 1854 was married to John Winters
Lusk, making their home for a short time in
Pleasant Grove, Utah Co., moved from there to
Wellsville, Cache Co. where they resided five years.


In 1866 she removed  with her husband and
family, to Malad City, Malad Valley, where she
resided at the time of her demise, she was the
mother of eight children, seven of whom are liv-
ing, and grandmother to thirty-seven, twenty-nine
of whom are still living.
	When the Relief Society was first organized in
Malad City, in 1873 she was chosen for second
Counselor to the President, when a change was
made in the President five years after she was
again chosen second Counselor which office she
held at the time of her demise making her term
of office twenty years, she was also a subscriber
to the Exponent. She was a wise Counselor,
faithful in her office, her heart ever open to com-
fort, bless and encourage the poor and sorrow-
stricken. Her death has made a great vacancy
in our midst, we miss her in our meetings for
added to her many virtues punctuality was fore-
most.
	She has left a character of sterling integrity,
having been a faithful wife, loving mother, and a
bright example to all around her she passed away 
surrounded by her husband and family, she
was so well known and respected, that it seemed
the whole valley mourned with the bereaved
family, by the procession that followed her re-
mains to their last resting place.
Faithful in life and true unto death,
	She has left this dark valley of care
To join with the righteous who sing the new song
	Of the saved and the sanctified there.
	ANN SAWYER, President. 
	ELIZABETH JENKINS, Sec.
Malad City, Dec. 26, 1893.


OBITUARIES.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Since God in His infinite wisdom and mercy,
has seen fit to remove to another sphere of action
our respected and beloved president, Anna K.
Smoot, we her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, an
earnest seeker after truth, a noble and devoted
wife, a wise mother and filled her position as
President of the Primary Association in an ex-
emplary manner. In every step of life we firmly
believe she has pleased her Heavenly Father by 
her steadfastness of purpose and integrity.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family, and her large circle of friends.
	Resolved: that we esteem her labors for the past
ten years as President of the Primary Association
of Utah Stake worthy of emulation, and respect.
	Resolved: that her memory shall ever be held in
loving remembrance by her fellow laborers, and
the children whom she has taught in those
principles that will lead them back to God.
	Resolved: that a copy of these resolutions be
embodied in our Primary R cords, and published
in the local paper, the Deseret News and the
Woman’s Exponent.
	ELIZA TAYLOR, First Counselor.
	SARAH E. CLUFF, Second Coun.
	MABEL PRATT, Secretary.
	IDA CHEEVER, Asst. Sec.
	OTTILLE MAESER,Treasurer.
Provo Jan. 28, 1894.

	AFTER an illness of three weeks, Sister Martha
Seed Thornley, wife of John Thornly, died at her
residence in Layton, Davis County, Utah, on the
11th, of Dec. 1893 from the effects of pneumonia,
superinduced by la grippe.
	Sister Thornley was born in Preston, Lancashire
England, Sep. 22nd, 1819; where she was baptized
a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter Day Saints, by Jos. Fielding in the year 1837,
being among the first to receive the Gospel in
England. She helped to administer physical
comforts to the late President Heber C. Kimball,
Dr. Willard Richards and many other Elders dur-
ing their missionary labors in Lancashire.
	With her husband she emigrated to Utah in
1855, arriving in time to share with the saints the
hard winter of 55-6. Very soon after they re-
moved from Salt Lake to Kaysville, Utah, and
located on Kay's Creek, which at that time could
boast of but three settlers.
	Sister Thornley has ever been a liberal and
faithful member of the Rebel Society and in the
early days was an active teacher and up to her
dying moments, she was a zealous Latter-day
Saint.
	The deceased was the mother of seven children,
four of whom she lived to see consigned, to the


grave; one infant son and three daughters in the
prime of life. These daughters left an infant son
each, and upon the motherless children she
bestowed great labor, love and care, until she
too was called home.
	Shortly before her death she and her husband
with the members of their family, quietly cele-
brated their Golden Wedding; an event for which
they had all waited with fond anticipation.
And that death should have entered the family
circle so soon after is sad indeed, and her loss
falls most heavily upon her companion of fifty
years.

	Sleep on in peace and take thy rest,
	Thy work on earth is o’er,
	Thy weary feet have found sweet rest
	Upon some fairer shore.

	Sleep on in peace, beloved one,
	The morn will soon be here
	When we shall meet eternally
	And not for life’s brief sphere.
	ELIZABETH G. WATT.


Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND
ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Will begin her next Class April 9th. Reviews
given to former students free of charge. For
particulars enquire personally or by letter at No.
18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

DR. MAGGIE SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16
Office: 34 East 5th South,
Telephone 383.

DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for .
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But
ns covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

