VOL. 22		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST I, 1893. No.2.


CONTENTS:
	Passing Thoughts—Camelia. W. S. A. Spring-
ville—Ellen Jakeman. Women—E. H. Lyon.
Solving a Problem—Zion’s Convert. Notes and
News. R. S. Reports. War of the Revolution.
Miscellaneous. Obituaries.
	Editorial:—Editorial Notes.  Woman’s Silver
Meeting
	Poetry:—Beauties of Nature—E. B. W. Lines
Written on a Fly Leaf of a Doctrine Covenants—
E. J. The Eyes That Cannot weep—Ella Higgin-
son. Joseph Temple Bennett—Hope. An Old,
Old Rhyme. To Little Templeton Bennett—Mrs.
S. Stock


BEAUTIES OF NATURE.

Down in the meadows, where the cowslips spring,
	And the sweet clover breath is in the air,
There where the thrush and blue bird sweetly sing,
	Dame Nature in her robes so wondrous fair,
Holds her communion with the regal night,
	And blushes in the dawn of early light.

What picture hath the artist ever drawn
	That could compare in loveliness and grace
With nature in her rudest, wildest form,
	No matter in what climate, time, or place,
So skillfully is ev’ry figure wrought,
	So delicate with feeling is it fraught.

In grove, and field, and vale, in forest glade,
	On snowy heights, where man may scarcely tread,
On flow’r, or shrub, and ev’ry grassy blade
	That lifts from earth its tiny, modest head,
In coral reef, or sea beach shining sand,
	We see the seal of an Almighty hand.

I cannot tell how greatly I delight
	In all the beauties of the earth and heaven;
How ardently I reverence the light
	Which our good Father has so wisely given;
The sun and moon, and all the stars that shine
	With the effulgence of a power divine.

These speak to us in language most sublime,
	And most exalting to the human soul;
And all the changes of the hand of time,
	Which in their order and their seasons roll,
Bespeak the presence of a God of love,
	And grandly all the forces seem to move.

Harmonious in its sphere each sweeps along
	In measured time and method, year by year,
And nature’s voices in triumphant song,
	Ring out their echoes sweet, distinct and clear,
That linger ‘mong the "everlasting hills,"
	Or dance to rhythm in the sparkling rills.

Music in which the heavens might rejoice,
	So gifted and so rapturous the lay,
For nature with a universal voice
	Unites to celebrate each new born day;
And thus from morn to eve, and eve to morn,
	All beauty and all grace the earth adorn.

So we admire, adore, and pass along,
	Yet linger most where sweetest flow’rs are strewn,
And while we mingle in the busy throng
	We often fell "twere good to be alone"
To meditate in Nature’s haunts apart,
	In silence and humility of heart.

O, how we yearn to understand still more
	The mysteries that nature hath conceal’d;
The knowledge of her science—hidden lore,
	Which unto none of us has been reveal’d;
Nor will it be till we have proved how true,
	Our trust has been in what we came to do.
							E. B. W.


PASSING THOUGHTS.
	THE LAKE.—During the past month of
pleasure seeking and patriotism—not that
we are not patriotic in other months but
July always calls forth a little extra amount
of that quality—the world seems so sleepy
and weary and discontented after the ex-
citement of the noisy holidays are over that
every one who can seeks a change and rest.
This is the time when the leisure class seek
the cooler air of the mountain glades or sea
side villages, spending the greater part of
their time swinging in hammocks and read-
ing novels only indulging in such pastimes
as require little or no exertion. No doubt
the rest thus taken refreshes and revigorates
to such an extent that the cares of the
busy season are much more easily borne.
Would it were within the means and power
of every one to indulge in a quiet restful
change during the hot months, but unfor-
tunately it is not yet, here in Utah we need
not murmur on that account for at our very
doors lie the pleasure aud the enjoyment
others go miles to seek. Within a half
hour’s ride is our beautiful lake—the pride
of our territory. A favorite spot for artists,
where the laughing waves beat a steady
solemn dirge against the shores of its
mountainous islands, and the dark swaying
waters cause the gleams from the setting
sun to glow in crimson and green and gold
in the sky above and throw its glorious
colors on the purple hills beyond. A
blessed spot for the health seeker, where a
bath in the warm salt waters gives to the
body new life and invigorates one beyond
descrlption, while to the young who seek
only an hour’s pleasure,there with the bath
and the delights of the magnificent pavilion
there is nothing to be desired. Without
wishing to give the impression that I am
advertising a place I should like to simply
rave over our new resort Saltair, but as the
EXPONENT is not given much to raving, I
suppose I must subdue myself and simply
declare for my own part that the few
journeys out there have caused me to have
such an affection for the place that I would
be a very frequent visitor, and I am so
proud to think that Salt Lake can claim a
resort of such magnificence and beauty.
	Of course the scenery from any point
near the lake is beautiful, the air is refresh-
ing and the bathing delightful, yet each one
must choose for himself how, when and
where he can best eujoy the summer
months, for my own part and I wish all
Utah felt the same, I would say to my
friends, Stay at home and spend your
spare time and spare means among your
own people and enjoy the health giving
pleasures of your own territory In prefer-
ence to seeking them abroad.
	As for Saltair, too much cannot be said.
It far surpasses all one can imagine of a
seaside pavilion. I would not attempt to
describe it, to do so without illustrations
would be absurd.  It is enough to say that
it is large enough to accommodate any
crowd the territory might choose to gather
there. Its conveniences both for comfort
and pleasure are ample and complete, it is
perfectly free from every unpleasant or low
association, and a high toned and superior
air pervades it at all times to such an ex-
tent, that one has a perfect feeling of se-
curity even when alone among crowds of
unknown persons.
	I believe my expressions are but an echo
of what hundreds of others feel concerning
our new and fine resort, for on every hand
one hears only words of praise for the
projectors,and admiration for the picturesque
pavilion which if equaled in any land is
certainly not surpassed.

	MOTHER GOOSE AGAIN.—I suppose it was
while crooning some lullaby to my little
baby that the question arose in my mind
about Mother Goose and I ventured to ask
the EXPONENT readers who she was. My
question has been answered both from the
North and the South, and I laugh at my
own ignorance. I, a woman of New Eng-
land pedigree, who always have loved those
nursery rhymes not to know that the author
was from dear old Boston. The last EX
PONENT had a very interesting account of
Mother Goose from a Provo friend and now
comes another description from Idaho.
The two are so similar that we need not
publish the latter. Both tell that no monu-
ment or stone marks the resting place of
the dear old soul, though it is in the old
south cemetery in Boston near the grave of
Paul Revere. If times were not so hard
that every effort must be exerted for the
living, I think a subscription among the
world’s children for a monument to “Mother
Goose" would be quite a popular idea, but
Boston who claims her both in life and in
death would surely claim the privilege of
erecting it, though she might not scorn
assistance from other parts.

	A QUIETY CITY:—It was a holiday and I
knew all the streets would be deserted and
the houses closed and people would leave
the heated city to seek a change and rest
the quiet of the city was almost oppressive
no sounds from the engines of the factories,
no hammering on the blacksmith’s anvil,no
fire in the furnace,no tradesman’s noisy call,
everything was quiet as the sabbath and
the thought seized me to wander away from
home myself; my feet did not carry me
however among the gathering crowd of
pleasure seekers but far away on the hill-
side to the sleeping city of throbless hearts
and folded hands. One often calls on
friends and in a few moments of conversa-
tion and association many things are learned
but when one quietly and alone visits the
graves of those we loved, there is a sweet
communion of souls. In memory only do
they live, but at these sacred spots their
resting places, they nearer seem.
	Oh,how many are there now where only a
few short years agone not one dearly loved
one lay.
	I mark to day so many places as I pass
through winding paths and am almost start-
led at times as I unexpectedly behold the
white stone on my way the name of some old
friend. I have stood by the grave of my
grand, old father and in my mind his
mighty form and benign countenance


almost translucent seemed to rise before me.
I could feel the pressure of his soft hand 
and the warmth of his loving kiss, could
hear his gentle word of admonition and
blessing, just as in life he was wont to do.
	We pause and recall at each dear spot,
some memory of the loved one here but one
little grave far beyond like a magnet draws 
us on past sisters', children, past cherished
friends, and sisters fondly loved.  That one 
little grave took away all fear or death and
brought heaven very near.  It is the tie
between heaven and earth, all that lies here
is so pure and lovely, and the clasp of the
baby arms about my neck and the unspoken
thoughts in the lovely eyes are brought
back fresh before me.  Dear little baby!
God took you home to him but we claim
you still, to us you cannot die.  Was I
irritable and cross today, have I been unkind
and unreasonable, oh, how selfish I seem
to myself, how reproved! now I wonder if
she knew, my little one, what a discontented
perturbed spirit I had this morning, but I 
am better now, the tears I shed o'er your
little grave have done me good, I know
you await me and I hope to live that I may
see you once again; how mean we seem to
ourselves, how silly to be worried over the 
trifling everyday annoyances, that can't we
live above it all.  The memory of our dead
and the thought that may be they know
our troubles ought to make life easier and
and better.  'Tis hard to leave this little 
spot but time is passing and one cannot
always mourn, so backward we turn stopping 
now and again where a familiar name meets
the eye nor must we pass on this day, the
grave of a dear brother whose death just 
twenty one years ago so shocked and
grieved us.  A bright happy lad of twelve
stricken to death with the weapon in his
 own hands.  The thought of his death
makes me long for a voice of thunder to
warn the youth and those who idly toy 
with fire arms.  A boy beloved by all who 
knew him, obedient, unselfish and gentle,
stricken without a moment's warning by
the accidental discharge of an old weapon
some boys had found, and thought this July
holiday a fitting time to make a noise and 
disturbance.  What a shock to his play-
mates who stood around him, what a shock
to his loved ones at home. Gone, yes gone
forever, no more sweet loved ones only in 
memory to meet you.  Your graves are a
shrine and to them we bring our offerings
of love, and unfold our sorrows and
thoughts and fancies and some times our
souls are better for coming where you rest.
Lessons and truths you teach us for we
mark the spot where one loved one lies,
who sacrificed his life that others might
live, and from over the sea his body was
brought to be laid by the side of his noble
mother, and now as we go there is a little
grave just newly made, the flowers scarcely
withered, a little suffering soul laid down
his cross, and found a sweet resting 
place. Good night, the shadows gather
fast and musings and dreamings must give
place to realities.  
	CAMELIA.


WOMANS EXPONENT


W. S. A. SPRINGVILLE.

	THE suffrage association of Springville
met in regular session on the 22nd of June,
1893, Prest, Sarah A. Boyer in the chair.
	After the opening exercises; Mrs. Ellen
Jakeman, who was present by special invita-


tion addressed the meeting for an hour.  Her
subject was “Suffrage” considered under
the following heads.
	Definition, literal and political sense;
claims for it, hereditary, constitutional,
governmental responsibility, influence-
social-moral and political, the training of
her children, in defense of right,-as wage
earners’ responsible beings; necessity for
purification of ballot box, honest and
economical administration of all depart-
ments of government, general improve-
ment, higher civilization.
	Mrs. Carrie Smith of Logan being
present as a visitor was invited to address
the meeting. Her life seems to have been
flowing in very pleasant channels, for she
expressed it as her opinion that women
enjoyed at the present more rights than
they made a proper use of. Thought it
was all right for women to vote if they
wished, but objected to their holding office.
Still admitted that she was not well posted
on the subject, having given her time and
attention outside of her duties as a mother
to the study of her religion. Was heartily
in favor of anything that would advance
the well being of either men or women.
	Mrs. Snow Young, also of Logan
addressed the meeting for a few moments,
said: “show me the women of a nation and
I will tell you what the men are, tell me
the characters of the women and I will tell
you the moral character of the men.” She
earnestly desired the success of suffrage.
She said many other pleasant and encourag-
ing things.
	Mrs. Sorensen, Bishop Harmer, John
S. Boyer Sen, and Mr. Waite, addressed
the audience. The latter gentlemen
digressed from the subject to eulogize Prest.
Boyer, which was heartily coincided in by
all suffragists present, who are acquainted
with her long and faithful labors in that
direction.
	The speeches were all worth recording,
but I have some modesty about taking
your space.
	On the following Sunday evening
Bishop John E. Booth, who had been
detained from the suffrage meeting by
business, gave the expected lecture. His
subject was the "Property rights of
Women,” handled in his usual masterly
style, to the edification of a large audience.
		ELLEN JAKEMAN.


LANGUAGE IN SEALING WAX.

	AN epistle conveying a proposal of mar-
riage must be sealed with white wax,
while accepted lovers may use ruby color.
Jealousy is expressed by yellow wax, blue
implies constancy and brown, melancholy,
green suggests hope, and a paler shade of
green conveys reproof.  A letter of con-
dolence should bear a violet seal in reply
to the black wax intimating death, and the
ordinary scarlet hue is still used for business.
Invitations to dinner display chocolate
seals, gushing young ladies fasten their
confidences with pink, and gray is the
general tint for letters to ordinary
acquaintances.
	VISITORS at the World’s Fair will see
there the largest cannon ever forged. It
is not an American gun, however, but a
German one, from the factory of the great
Herr Krupp. It weighs 124 tons.


WOMAN.

	WOMAN, the master-piece, the finishing
touch of the Almighty. See her on the
sixth day of creation walking beside of
that noble being man, who was formed in
the image of his Maker. Not to be his
slave, nor to humor his every whim, but
his helpmeet and confident; to be the sharer
of his joys and sorrows. His equal in all
save physical strength. For centuries she
has played a subordinate part, but, as
civilization advances the natural rights of
woman will be more and more recognized
until each sex will stand equal before the
law, and finally her superiority in many
respects will be granted and she will reap
the rewards of all the advantage it brings.
Let us behold her as she enters upon mar-
ried life. Young, full of hope and ambition.
She gives herself freely to the man of her
choice believing him to be noble, good,
virtuous and true. He is her ideal, almost
her world. Her nature is loving, trusting
and confiding. In a year perhaps she be-
comes a mother. What a responsibility! 
	No matter what the husband and father
may prove to be, her little one in a few
short months begins to watch her every
look and action and soon learns to imitate.
Then as a mother to whom children are
confided, let her look well to it that she ap-
preciates, understands, and observes the
duties she has assumed. Her children are
her jewels. What a loving yet laborious
task she has to perform! Over half her
life is spent in rearing and caring for her
children, and what a debt of gratitude they
owe her. How she hopes and prays for
their welfare, that they may become useful
men and women. Even among her own
children how different are their dispositions.
	How careful she should be of the exam-
ple she sets before them. Once the famous
Garibaldi made the remark “Give me the
mothers of a nation to educate and you may
do what you like with the boys.”
	All women are not destined it would seem
to become wives and mothers, but, in this
day when so many avenues are open which
in the past were confined to men, it is to
her interest to improve her mind, broaden
her ideas, become more intelligent that she
may stand upon an equal footing with her
brother man, as a lawyer, physician etc. or
any other vocation she may choose to pur-
sue and the time will eventually come when
she will receive the same remuneration for
her labor. At the present time the
World’s Fair is demonstrating to all nations
what woman has and can do. Her future
prospect is bright. There is every thing to
encourage her to widen her sphere of action,
to more fully develop her mental faculties
that have lain dormant so long. The re-
sult will be shown in posterity.
	E. H. LYON.


Yale college was founded in 1700 under
the trusteeship of the ten principal minis-
ters of the colony of Connecticut, who each
contributed a gift of books. It was first 
established at Saybrook, but in 1716 was
removed to New Haven.  Among its early
patrons were Governor Yale, after whom
it was named, and Bishop Berkeley.  Of
its four faculties the medical was organized
in 1812, the theological in 1822, the legal in
1824 and the philosophical in 1847.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES WRITTEN ON THE FLY LEAF OF A
	DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS.

THIS book, I deemed, a fitting gift,
	From friend to friend on Christmas morn,
Since, through the light these pages hold
	Christ to men’s souls is newly born,
And when your eyes these pages scan,
	Though far or near, by land or sea,
’Midst worthier thoughts,I trust you’ll find,
	Time for a kindly thought of me.
	E.J.


“THE EYES THAT CANNOT WEEP”.

The saddest eyes are those that cannot weep;
	The loneliest breast the one that sobbeth not;
	The lips and mind that are most parched and
		hot
Are those that cannot pray, and cannot sleep;—
It is the silent grief that sinketh deep.
	To weep out sorrow is the common lot,—
	To weep it out and let it be forgot,—
But tears and sobs are after all but cheap,
We weep for worries, frets and trifling cares,
	For toys we’ve broken, and for hopes that were
And fancied woes of passing love affairs—
	But only One can ease the breast of her
Whose hurt for fruitless moans has gone too deep.
Pity, O God, the eyes that cannot weep.
	ELLA HIGGINSON.


JOSEPH TEMPLE BENNETT.

The king of kings was in a manger born.
Of every earthly power and glory shorn,
The humble shepherds and the wise men three,
Alone permitted Bethlehem’s Star to see.

And now we wonder why thou art so blest,
And if a mighty mission on thee rests, 
Dear liitle Joseph Temple why thy birth,
In God’s own Temple here upon the earth.

Even upon the Altar in the dreary world,
Where gospel truth was first to man unfurled,
To guide his wandering footsteps back again.
Through life’s hard,strong path of sin and pain.

Art thou a messenger from heaven sent,
To cry unto a wicked world repent,
To search amid the tares for the good wheat,
Then lay the garnered sheaf at the Christ’s feet.

If this thy Mission angel hands will guide,
And guard thy footsteps on the desert wild,
Will calm the stormy sea, the tempests breath,
And will deliver thee from chains and death.

We breathe a fervent blessing on thy head,
And pray that heaven’s light be round thee shed
May angels guard thy footsteps ever more,
And lead thee onward to the golden shore.
								Hope.


SOLVING A PROBLEM.

	SINCE we read in Holy Writ that God
made of one blood all nations of the earth
I would ask are we all equal? It would
seem that all are of one family: but are all
brothers and sisters equal? Oh no! Some
have greater intelligence than others, ac-
cordingly some are qualified to be teachers
while others are only learners, yet at the
same time those teachers are still progress-
ing, learning from a fountain of light and
intelligence greater truths to benefit the
human family. Well since this is the case
do we not feel to pay honor and respect to
those who are teaching us; and also feel
regret and shame when we sometimes make
a mistake through neglect or indifference.
Now I would ask is this pride? if so do we


inherit it naturally.  I ask this question
because I learn from the Book of Mormon
that pride is a fearful attribute. (Also in all
sacred writings.)
	We read that Jesus after His resurrection,
came to this continent, to teach this people
the laws of life and Salvation.  He taught
them the same laws that He gave to those
at Jerusalem, called Christ’s sermon on the
mount, recorded in Mathew, 5 &6 & 7
chapters.
	I feel satisfied in my mind that while we
apply our minds to this study of the laws
of God we do not allow pride to have any
place in us.  We are all as children learning
the lessons we so much need, and applying
them to practice.
	We find in the Book of Nephi (3 Nephi)
that this people were blessed in like manner;
for four generations passed away in
righteousness.  But the next generation was
affected by pride.  There came strife and
confusion with all their attendant train of
evils.  Wickedness then prevailed and
righteousness ceased to bear rule.
	Now in these days great knowledge is
being restored to the earth, and we know
that knowledge is power, we see this in’
electricity and also in steam.  Let us also
remember St. Paul’s word, who said,
“Knowledge puffeth up but charity :
edifieth.” This being the case, do not we
have great need of caution and care.
Strictly applying our minds to the laws
given in Christ’s Sermon on the mount.
Then we will live by the golden rule, and
do to others as we would that they should
do to you.  Let us therefore apply our
minds to wisdom; for it is written that:
“Her ways are pleasant and all her paths
are peace."  By observing these laws we
may keep our balance and not fall; for
remember it is written.  “Pride comes
before destruction, and a haughty spirit be-
fore a fall.”
	ZION'S CONVERT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER was ap-
pointed chairman of the section on care of
dependent and neglected children at the
recent International Congress of Charities
and Corrections at Chicago. Mrs. Spencer
also preached the Congress sermon on “The
Relation of the Church to Philanthropies
and Reform.”
	PRESIDENT CHENEY, of Bates College,
Lewiston, Me., in his baccalaureate address,
gave expression to a long-felt need when he
spoke last week for enlarged ideas and a
broad view of the possibilities of women.
	He argued for the presence of women on
the faculties of the colleges of the country.
Women on college faculties and on the
boards of trustees are needed in the interest
of male as well as female students.  Presi-
dent Cheney gave a timely word in its be-
half.—Ex.
	THE women of Kansas of all parties and
of no party have wisely left all differences
on other questions behind or out of sight,
while they work to secure the passage of
the suffrage amendment. The New York
World says, “They have organized in every
county, and it may be predicted they will
succeed,” They mean to succeed, as they
deserve to do.  The men of Kansas know
this, and they mean to see that the women
are not disappointed.—Ex.

[Column 2]
	DURING the World’s Congress on gov-
ernment, August 7—14, arrangements
have been made for six woman suffrage
meetings in the large halls, and in room 2
and 3, each seating 700 persons. Two of
these meetings will be in the morning, two
in the afternoon, and two in the evening.
	On Monday afternoon Rev. Anna Shaw
is announced; on Tuesday afternoon, in
the Hall of Columbus, Mrs. Lucy Stone
and Susan B. Anthony; on Wednesday
afternoon, in hall 3, Alice Stone Blackwell;
on Friday afternoon Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
Henry B. Blackwell, Rev. Ida C. Hultin,
and Samuel Gompers.—Ex.
	THE Federal Suffrage Association will
hold a Congress at Art Institute, Chicago,
August 9.  President Thomas Palmer,Hon.
C. C. Bonner, and Rev. Olympia Brown
have accepted invitations to deliver ad-
dresses.
	The New Cycle for June contains a full
report of the Federation Council of Wo-
men’s Clubs at the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, Chicago, May 18.
An important action was taken at this
meeting with reference to a “Federation
organ.” It was shown that while the
Federation had voted at a previous general
meeting to support The New Cycle as its
organ, the magazine has not been supported.
The last three numbers had been published
from the private fund of the editor, Mrs.
J.C. Croly, and unless capital was provided.
The New Cycle must suspend publication.
After lengthy discussion a committee con-
sisting of Mrs. Lindon W. Bates, Mrs.
Charlotte Emerson Brown and Mrs. J. C.
Croly was appointed to take charge of all
the interests of the magazine.  The com-
mittee was commissioned to issue two
thousand shares of stock at five dollars a
share, to be sold to clubs and club members.
As the organ of the Federation owned and
controlled thereby, The New Cycle will re-
sume publication in September.  Through
it, club documents and papers will be issued,
and reports of the work, methods and
anniversaries of local clubs will be given.
The Federation now numbers upwards of
three hundred local organizations, it
covers nearly every State in the Union, and
some abroad.—Ex.


THE FRENCH DICKENS.
	ALPHONSE DAUDET, the French Dickens,
as he is sometimes termed, is one of the
most striking figures in the world of Paris.
His fine head is enveloped in flowing locks
of jet black hair, which fall thickly on his
shoulders, and the lower part of his face,
the palor of which is in striking contrast
to his lustrous eyes, is likewise covered
with luxuriant mustaches and beard—in
short, an incarnation of the poet of
romance. With all this outward display of
Bohemianism, he has been happily “ranged”
these many years, and he finds in Mme.
Daudet a constant and valued helpmeet.
	Daudet was born at Nines in 1840, tried
school-teaching for a year, and then, sick
of the work, made his way to Paris, where
he arrived with a capital of 40 sous and a
bundle of poems. For these he was in
time fortunate enough to find a publisher.
“Les Amoureuses,” however, did not
foreshadow his fame, and it was not till he
left poetry for fiction that he became
known.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia). - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, - - - AUGUST 1,1893.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is a matter of regret that we have not
space this time for Rural England but hope
we may be excused, as we have many in-
teresting local matters that cannot be laid
over.

	THE 16th of July was the seventieth
birthday of one of our veteran sisters and
co-laborers in the Women’s Associations in 
Zion, Mrs. Margaret Steele, President of
the Relief Society of the First Ward in this
City.  Sister Steele was early connected
with the Retrenchment  Association in
which she labored several years faithfully
and efficiently, and we ought also to men-
tion that she has been a diligent agent for
the EXPONENT from its first issue.  On her
anniversary last month she received some
valuable gifts and a letter from her brother
W. A. Farquhar member of the City Coun-
cil of Glasgow and also a shipping merchant.
We wish the dear old lady many happy
returns of the day with health, peace and
happiness to enjoy the blessings of her well-
spent life.

	WE have received by courtesy of the
author, Elder Edward Stevenson, a copy of
the “Reminiscences of Joseph the Prophet.”
A cut of the author and of the prophet
Joseph, also of the Hill Cumorah and of
the angel delivering the golden plates to
the boy Prophet, some of the characters, etc.
also of Liberty and Carthage jails are
given in the book and are quite natural.
Elder Stevenson was well-acquainted
with the prophet and has given an au-
thentic account of what he was personally
conversant with.Therefore the book is 
thoroughly reliable.  It is for sale cheap
and Brother Stevenson has given away
many copies, he has agents in many
parts of the Territory.  It will be of great
interest to those who are not acquainted
with the history of the early days, as
well as those familiar with the subject.

	IN consequence of Dr. E. R. Shipp’s
sojourn in the east, she has suspended her
Obstetric School for the past year.  But she
has now returned after a systematic review
both in theoretical and practical work in the
Michigan University and Hospital, ready
to resume her labors of love in training
women for the responsibilities of nurses
and accoucheurs.  In addition to her own
ability and experience as a teacher, a num-
ber of other leading physicians have con-
sented to give occasional lectures to the
students upon chosen subjects; thus giving

[Column 2]
variety to the exercises, and securing for
the searchers after truth accurate and
correct knowledge in Obstetrics, and the
latest most improved methods of nursing
the sick.  We are assured that every effort
will be made to give satisfaction, and adapt
prices to the stringency of the times,
special reductions being made to societies
sending students.  Those contemplating
this course of study would do well to
communicate with Dr. Shipp at No. 18
Main St.  Salt Lake City.

	THE Old Folks Day July 18, was
fraught with real pleasure to those who
participated in the excursion. The day was
fine, the cars were clean, and conductors
pleasant, and the Committee were never in
better spirits. The choir sang as sweetly
as on any former occasion and the lemonade
buns and sweetmeats were as plentiful as
ever.  It was indeed a GALA DAY.  The
Ogden people came out in full force to
escort the company to Lester Park where,
tents, flags, banners, music and tables or-
namented with beautiful flowers and loaded
with the best of everything to refresh the
dear old people, and tempt their appetites
was prepared, and awaiting their coming;
and they were willingly and gladly served
by the people from the several wards in and
near Ogden.  Exercises were held in the
pavilion, and the day was thoroughly en-
joyed by all, the very oldest people receiv-
ing the most attention and the heartiest
congratulations.  It is a beautiful tribute to
pay to age, and teaches a useful lesson to
the younger people of the community.
	BY invitation of Sister Lucy B. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham
Young several of the Young family and
other friends, assembled at her handsome
new brick residence on Centre street on
Monday July 10, to congratulate her and
also to be present at the dedication of this
new home recently built.  Among the
guests was President Joseph F. Smith
whom Sister Young desired should offer
the dedicatory prayer,  President Smith
kindly consenting.  The prayer was earnest
eloquent and somewhat pathetic. Congratu-
lations from the assembled guests were
fervent and sincere, and some delightful
piano music helped to while away the
evening hours, also songs from Mrs.
Young’s daughter Mabel, and we must not
forget to mention a delicious dinner which
all present heartily enjoyed.  Sister Young
very much regretted however the absence
of several brethren and sisters whom she
had expected to have as guests.  It was an
interesting time, and we with her many
friends sincerely wish she may live long to
enjoy the delights, the peace and the
happiness of her pleasant home and sur-
roundings.


WOMAN’S SILVER MEETING.

	PURSUANT to a call for a mass meeting
published in the daily papers of this City
the meeting convened as per appointment
in the Salt Lake theatre Wednesday even-
ing July 26.  Long before the hour for
opening, crowds of people were waiting for
admittance, and when the doors were
thrown open the house was immediately
filled with eager, intelligent looking men
and women,though women largely predom-
inated.  The platform and boxes on each
side were handsomely draped with the stars
and stripes, and when the platform was
filled with the women of the Committee
[column 2]
﻿and their friends who came on by invitation
it presented quite a brilliant appearance.  A
large and elegant jar of long stemmed
hollyhocks and vases of sweet peas and
other flowers in season, added beauty and
attractiveness to the stage.
	Most of the Committee were without
hats or bonnets and wore lovely bouquets of
flowers.  It was not a dress parade occasion
however for the women were intent and
earnest as their countenances proved and
were only there for a noble purpose.
	Mrs. George A. Lowe Chairman of the
Committee who had signed the Call
tapped the table with her fan and signified
the house should come to order, by her re-
quest the orchestra Prof. Geo. Careless lead-
ing opened with inspiring music and the
audience were gratified.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chairman
and Mrs. Ellsworth Daggett, Secretary,  A
quartette composed of Mrs.  Seigel,  Mrs.
Woodrow,  Miss Jennings and Miss St.
John accompanied on the piano by Mrs.
T. J. Almy sang very effectively the song
“Hard times come again no more,’’ the
audience joining in the chorus.  Mrs. F. W.
Norris read very gracefully and in a clear
voice the the MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

To the Honorable Senators and Members of
	the House of Representatives:
	In the face of unparalleled disasters the
women of Utah, in mass meeting as-
sembled, appeal to your honorable bodies.
	We respectfully petition that at the ensuing
special session of Congress,   legislative
measures be adopted to increase the use of
silver as money and enhance the price of
silver bullion.  We do not assume to speak
of the theory which should be adopted or
the means which should be used to attain
these ends, but we speak from a knowledge
of the distress and business disaster which
have already fallen upon our territory and
this whole intermountain region from the
partial cessation of silver mining, and which
must increase when this industry is more
completely abandoned.  Silver mining is
almost the only source of revenue of this
whole intermountain region.  The miners
consume the agricultural products, laborers
and merchants are paid by the products of
our mines, and with the cessation of mining
there will be common and widespread dis-
aster.  Already hundreds of working
women as well as men, have lost situations,
thousands of skilled laborers have been dis-
charged from our mines and with no oc-
cupation and no capital, will soon have no
food for themselves or families.  A few
mine owners are still working their mines,
but with reduced force and wages, and with-
out profit, and this only to avoid the waste
and damage resulting to machinery and
mines from closing and stopping pumps;
even this work continues only because of
the hope that the price of silver may in-
crease so as to enable a resumption.  Unless
this advance of price comes soon the indus-
try must cease, and other thousands of
helpless laborers will be discharged.  If
this were only temporary, or affected only
one of our industries, we would bear up
bravely, but the foundation upon which
our entire business structure rests is silver
mining, and failure brings universal dis-
aster.  The people of the east are assured
that in these appeals we are not actuated
by selfish motives, or making a false cry
when asking that the bitter cup be turned
aside.  They, too, are also directly and in-
directly interested in our welfare not only


as citizens of a common country but in a
pecuniary way; our merchants buy of them
and obtain credit in proportion to the pros-
perity of our country.  
	Our railroads are built, our mines opened
and our improvements largely made on
credit.  Our railroad, state, territorial and
municipal bonds, our principal loans and
much of our mining stock are held in the
east, therefore they cannot ruin our one
great industry and inestimably lessen values
without damaging their own interests.
	The development of this country and the
investments in property here have been
undertaken and accomplished when the
laws of the country and the platforms of its
political parties pledged the nation to main-
tain the parity between gold and silver,
and gave investors the greatest pledge of
security in the world, and while we do not
understand why this pledge has failed, we
see and know the effects of its failure. We
are loyal women. With you we have an
intense affection and pride in our native
land, and we cannot believe that an appeal
which directly affects the happiness and
prosperity of the people of one-third of this
republic can be listened to with indifference
by you, and we most respectfully submit
our memorial.

	Telegrams of sympathy and encourage-
ment were received from Park City, Ogden,
Corinne, and Provo.
	The mandolin club of young girls ren-
dered a beautiful selection which was very
pleasing in effect and the audience applau-
ded until they were obliged to give an
encore.
	Dr. Ellen Gage and Mrs. Cornelia Pad-
dock made very effective and interesting
speeches and Miss Austin a professional
elecutionist read feelingly a poem entitled,
“The Silver Bells,” quite in keeping with
the sentiment of the meeting, it was heartily
applauded.  Mrs. Allen of Park City
daughter of Col. Ferry was the next
speaker and told much of the miner’s life
and hardships in a pathetic way; she also
gave clearly the condition as it now exists
in mining camps. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
who came to Utah in 1847, and knows
perhaps as much of this country as any
woman living, made some strong points on
home industries and our being self sustain-
ing, thought the people had done well in
keeping calm during the time of excite-
ment around us. A solo by Miss Jennings
“Tis our last plea for silver" etc., was
exquisitely rendered, also a song by Mrs.
Woodrow, “A miner’s plea for silver,” was
given in excellent taste and clear deep tones.
	A severe storm coming up caused
some of the speeches that had been pre-
pared to be passed over which was very
much regretted.  Mrs. Ryan and Mrs.
Nelden both ladies of special talent had
been expected to speak.  Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson gave a synopsis of her speech
which was a sort of review of the silver
question and history of trade and commerce
that would have been valuable to give in
full had there been time.
	During the meeting Mrs. W. F. James
moved that a copy of the memorial be sent
to Mrs. Frances Cleveland, the President’s
wife, the motion was seconded, was voted
upon and carried by the assembly.
	Altogether the meeting was a success
and it is hoped may be the means of en-
lightening the people in the East on the
silver question about which they seem
entirely in the dark.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S. REPORTS.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Bear 
Lake Stake convened at St. Charles Idaho
Saturday May 27, 1893, at 10 a. m  Presi-
dent Lindsay presiding.  The choir sang,
"What though the sky be starless,"  prayer
Elder M. Allred.  Singing "When the 
heart is pressed with care." Roll called
and minutes of the former conference read
and approved.  Opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion made by Prest. Lindsay. 
	The branches of the society were then
represented as follows, St. Charles Prest.
J. C. Gallaway,  Fish Haven, Frances 
Howell, Bloomington, Sarah Patterson,
Paris, 1st Ward, Margaret Sutton, Mont-
pelier, Prest. Patrea Hogansen.  All were
reported as in good condition.  The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read.
Some very interesting and instructive re-
marks were made by Prest. Lindsay and
Counselor Hart, after which Prest. Lind-
say explained that she was in need of a
corresponding sec'y, and it was moved and
carried that Miss Rose Hillier act as Cor.
Sec. Prest. Annie Laker of the primary
associations made some remarks in which 
she gave good instructions.  Meeting
adjourned by singing, benediction by
Brother Jno. Bagley.
	Sunday 2 p. m. President Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing I'll praise my maker etc.,
prayer by Brother Hart, singing. The 
sacrament was administered and during
its administration the choir sang, "Come
follow me." A few remarks were made by 
Prest. Lindsay, after which three associ-
ations were represented as follows, Ovid,
Sister Carlson, Preston, Miss Addie
Dalrymple.  Paris 2nd Ward by Sister
Collins, who after reporting the associa-
tions made some very interesting and
encouraging remarks. Sister Mary Bagley
spoke a short time, bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.  Prest. Lindsay
spoke of the duty of parents to their
children, and also of the duty of presidents
and of the Relief Society, to the poor and
sick among them, said that she was in 
need of some one to assist her and her
counselors in visiting the different branches
of the Society.  Sister Mary Bagley was
chosen and unanimously sustained to act as
such assistant.
	Prest. James Hart spoke at some length
on the missions of the sisters in our church,
and the object of their organization.  Sisters
Mary Bagley and Rose Hillier were then
set apart to their different callings by Prest.
Hart and Bishop Hunt of St. Charles.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, "Jerusalem My Glorious Home."
	Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
			MISS ROSE HILLIER, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE Quarterly Conference of this stake
of Zion convened in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this City, Friday June 30,
1893. President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. On the stand with the President was
her Counselor E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells,
acting as Secretary in the absence of Margaret A. Caine. Meeting opened with
singing, “Lord we come before thee now,”
etc., prayer was offered by E. B. Fletcher.
Singing, O, my Father thou that dwellest,"  
ect. Roll called and was responded to as

[Column 2]
follows, 19 branches represented by Presi-
dents, 11 by Counselors, 3 by Secretaries,
Treasurer one, teachers two, making in all
36 branches, leaving ten without represen-
tation. The President made some opening
remarks, regretted the delinquencies and
urged those present to make every effort to
awaken others to a realization of the im-
portance of being diligent in the work of
the Society, and seek to become more intelli-
gent upon all subjects, and especially to set
good examples in all places and at all
times, in the home and before the world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the silk in-
dustry the efforts that were being made to
encourage it and of Sisters Caine, Fosgreen
and Pyper going to Chicago to manufacture
it from the Utah cocoons, with the primi-
tive reel and loom that had been used here.
	Verbal reports—President Emma Wood-
ruff, Farmer’s Ward, Sugar House, President
Gibson, Mill Creek, President Hill, Union,
Secretary Smarts, South Jordan, Counselor
Holt, West Jordan,President Cutler, North
Jordan,President Pixton, Granger, Counse-
lor Park, Pleasant Green, President Hirst,
Riverton, President Silcock, Centre Ward,
President Whittaker, Brighton, President
Hazon. All the reports were favorable and
there seemed to be an excellent spirit
and feeling with them.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made a few re-
marks especially exhorting the sisters to
faithfulness and advancement in the practi-
cal work of the organization, said many
good things, cautioned all to act with wis-
dom. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
Singing Doxology, benediction by E.
Stevenson.
	Afternoon session: On the stand with
President Horne were her Counselors E. S.
Taylor and H. M. Whitney also acting
Secretary E. B. Wells and Sisters E. Webb
and E. J. Stevenson. Meeting opened by
singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of
salvation” and prayer by Maria L. Nebeker,
singing, O, ye mountains high etc.
	President Horne made a few opening re-
marks and spoke a short time upon the
World’s Fair, particularly of the manufac-
tures and the accurate representations of
different countries,and also agriculture, and
described some of the State Buildings,
mentioned Illinois, Iowa, South Dakota and
described the corn palace most definitely,
Canada was not forgotten nor the cheese
weighing 22000 lbs.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon
spiritual topics entirely, and the many
testimonies we are receiving from day to
day.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells dwelt at some length
upon the World’s Fair exhibits, the
Woman’s Building including our own silk
exhibit, the Fine Arts, the Liberal Arts and
the General Buildings. 
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave an interesting
account of the convent of La Rabida where
Columbus called on his way to the Court of
Spain to ask for bread for himself and his
boy, when the old monk encouraged him to
persevere in his endeavors to discover a new
land, told him it was the will of the Lord,
described the room where Columbus slept,
it was filled with the paintings of him, and
of the period,artists differed in their ideas of
the subject. She said she had been deeply
interested in the Cliff Dwellings and the
bearing it had upon the authenticity of the
Book of Mormon and the proofs of a pre-
historic people. Her address was specially
entertaining.
	President Horne in closing the Conference


talked of the need of help there would be this
winter, so many being out of employment
and enjoined upon the sisters to take care of
the poor and let none suffer for the 
necessaries of life.
	Officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were sustained, and President Horne
spoke of the disasters that were coming 
which had been prophesied of by the 
Prophet Joseph, spoke of the sisters having 
been blessed in their absence and returning
home safely, the meeting held in connection
with the Congress etc. Singing, "Our God
we raise to thee." Conference then ad-
journed for three months, benediction by 
President Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.
		[Concluded.]
	The importers entered into an agreement
to buy no more goods of Great Britian until
the Stamp Act should be repealed, and the
people cheerfully denied themselves all
imported luxuries. Great was the wrath of
the British government when the news of
these proceedings was borne across the
ocean, but a large part of the English man-
ufacturers sided with the colonies. Lord
Camden in the House of Lord’s spoke in
favor of colonial rights, and Mr. Pitt in the
House of Commons said, you have no right
to tax America. On the 18th of March
1766 the Stamp Act was formally repealed.
The joy in England and America was un-
bounded. But in June 1767 a new scheme
was formed for taxing America. An act
was passed imposing a duty on glass, paper,
painters colors, and tea; at the same time
suspending the powers of the general
assembly of New York, until that body
should vote certain supplies for the royal
troops stationed within the province. A
more rash and disastrous piece of legislation
never was enacted. All the smothered
resentment of the colonies burst out anew.
Another agreement not to purchase goods
of Great Britian was immediately entered
into. Soon after a sloop charged with
attempting to evade the payment of duty
was seized by custom house officers, which
caused the people to rise in a mob. The
governors appealed to the ministers for
help, and General Gage commander in chief
of the British forces in America, was
ordered to bring from Halifax a regiment of
regulars and over awe the people. On the
first of October, the troops seven hundred
strong marched with fixed bayonets
into the Capital of Massachusetts, which
maddened the people, and when the gover-
nor required the selectman to provide
quarters for the soldiers, he was met by an
absolute refusal. The people were declared
rebels, but met this also with resolute de-
fiance. In 1770 a serious affray occured in
New York, caused by the soldiers cutting
down a liberty pole. In March a more
serious one occurred in Boston in which
three citizens were shot down and several
wounded. This outrage known as the
Boston massacre created a profound sensa-
tion, the city was ablaze with excitement.
The brave Samuel Adams spoke for the
people. On the day of the Boston massacre
Lord Worth prime minister, secured the
passage by Parliament of an act repealing
all the duties on American imports except-
ing that on tea. The people at once agreed
not to buy nor use tea. In 1773 the minis-
ters attempted to enforce the tea tax, by a

[Column 2]
stratagem. Ships were loaded with tea for
the American market, at Charleston the
tea was landed but the people forbade its
sale. At New York and Philadelphia the
ships were forbidden to enter the ports.
And finally on the evening of a great town
meeting when seven thousand people were
assembled, a party of about fifty men dis-
guised as Indians boarded the vessels,broke
open the three hundred and forty chests of
tea that composed the cargoes, and poured
the contents into the sea. Such was The
Boston Tea-Party. Parliament made haste
to find revenge and in March 1774 the
Boston Port Bill was passed by which no
kind of merchandise should any longer be
landed or shipped at the wharves of Bos-
ton. The assembly stood stoutly by the
cause of the people. When the news of
the Port Bill reached Virginia, the Bur-
gesses at once entered a protest on the
journals of the House. In September the
Second Colonial Congress assembled at
Philadelphia.
	Eleven colonies were represented. It
was unanimously agreed to sustain Massa-
chussets in her conflict with a wicked
ministry. Before adjournment a resolution
was adopted recommending the suspension
of all commercial intercourse with Great
Britian until the wrongs of the colonies
should be redressed.
	Parliament immediately ordered General
Gage,now governor of Massachusetts to re-
duce the colonies by force. A fleet and an
army of ten thousand soldiers were sent to
America to aid in the work of subjugation.
The general assembly was ordered disband-
ed but, instead of doing so the members
voted themselves into a Provincial Con-
gress and voted to equip an army of twelve
thousand men for the defence of the colony.
There was no longer any hope of peace.
The arm of Great Britain was stretched out
to smite and crush the sons of the Pilgrims.
The colonies were few and feeble but they
were men of iron wills who had made up
their minds to die for liberty. As soon as
the intentions of General Gage were mani-
fest the people made preparations for war.
John Hancock and Samuel Adams went
abroad encouraging the people. The first
battle was fought on the night of the 18th,
of April 1775. The British firing first
after ordering the rebels to disperse from
where they had gathered on the commons
at Lexington. They then pressed on to
Concord. The Americans on attempting
to enter the village met a company of
soldiers. Here for the first time the
Americans fired under orders of their
officers. The enemy began to retreat and
the battle was kept up for six miles along
the road toward Lexington, continuing
even to precincts of Charleston. At one
time it seemed as if the whole British force
would be compelled to surrender; such a
result was prevented only by the fear that
the fleet would burn the city. The Ameri-
can loss was forty-nine killed and thirty-
one wounded, and of the enemy two
hundred and seventy three. The battle of
Lexington fired the whole country. Within
a few days an army of twenty thousand
men had gathered about Boston. John
Stark of New Hampshire, Israel Putman
of Massachusetts Nathaniel Greene of
Rhode Island, Benedict Arnold of New
Haven, and Elnathan Allen of Vermont,
were the first grand, brave leaders of the
American Army. After Ticonderago and
Crown Point were taken. The British

[Column 3]
General Gage issued a proclamation brand-
ing those in arms as rebels and traitors,
and offering pardon to all who would sub-
mit, excepting Samuel Adams and John
Hancock, who were to suffer the penalty
of treason, but we all know how this was
recieved by the Americans. The next
conflict was the memorable, terrible, battle
of Bunker Hill, which took place on the
17th of June I775 in which the British
lost a thousand killed and fifty four wound-
ed. The Americans one hundred and
fifteen killed and three hundred wounded
and thirty two prisoners. Here the brave
Warren lost his life. The . people now de-
gan to talk of the United Colonies of
America. At Charlotte, North Carolina
the citizens in a hasty convention startled
the country by making a Declaration of
Independence. Immediately preceding
this the Colonial Congress reassembled at
Philadelphia where we first hear of Wash-
ington in the struggle for Independence,
with John Adams, and Samuel Adams,
Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry
were there, Jefferson came soon afterwards.
A last appeal was addressed to the king of
England. Early in the session John
Adams made a powerful address in which
he sketched the condition and wants of the
country, and of the army. The necessity
of appointing a Commander in Chief and
the qualities requisite in that high officer
were dwelt upon,and then the speaker con-
cluded by putting in nomination George
Washington of Virginia. As soon as his
name was mentioned Washington arose
and withdrew from the hall. He was
overpowered with the responsibility which
was about to be put upon him, and to his
friend Patrick Henry he said with tears in
his eyes “I fear that this will mark the
downfall of my reputation.” On the 15th,
of June the nomination was unanimously
sustained by Congress, and the man who
had saved the wreck of Braddock’s armies
in the French and Indian War, was called
to build a nation. With great dignity he
accepted the appointment, refusing all
compensation beyond his actual expense.
He reached Cambridge fifteen days after the
battle of Bunker Hill. The army was ar-
ranged in three divisions, the right under
General Ward held Roxbury, the left un-
der General Charles Lee rested at Prospect
Hill, the centre under the direction of the
Commander-in-chief lay at Cambridge.
The Americans looked to Canada for
sympathy and aid. It was believed that
the Canadians would make common cause
against Great Britain. So General Schuyl-
er and Montgomery were placed in com-
mand of a division, and sent to Canada.
Late in Autumn Colonel Benedict Arnold
took a thousand men and proceeded to-
ward Canada. It was a campaign of un-
told hardships. Morgan, Greene and
Meigs three noted leaders of the Revolu-
tion, and Aaron Burr, one day to become
Vice-President of the United States were
in this company of suffering heroes. This
expedition proved a failure. The Ameri-
cans were beaten back with the loss of the
great Montgomery besides many of the
army. At last came the king’s answer to
the appeal of Congress. It was such an
answer as George third and his ministers
always made to the petitioners for human
rights. The colonies were insulted and
spurned and their petition was treated with
contempt. The first thing necessary was
to disband the army and submit without


[Column 1]
conditions. By this tyrannical and offen-
sive answer the day of Independence was
brought nearer. By the middle of Febru-
ary the American army had increased to
fourteen thousand men and Washington
felt himself strong enough to assault the
enemy. Until May it had been hoped that
the difficulty with the Mother country
could be satisfactorily adjusted without
breaking allegiance to the British crown;
but after witnessing the terrible prepara-
tions for war made by Great Britain the
sentiment of disloyalty spread with
alarming rapidity; finally on the 7th of
June 1776, Richard Henry Lee of Virginia,
offered a resolution in Congress declaring
that the United Colonies are, and of right
ought to be free and Independent States,
that they are absolved from all allegiance
to the British crown, and that all political
connection between them and Great Britain
is and ought to be dissolved. Thomas Jef-
ferson was made chairman of a committee
to prepare a more elaborate and formal
declaration. The members were John
Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Roger Sher-
man and Robert B. Livingston. The
special work of preparing the paper was
given to Jefferson and Adams, the great
document was accordingly produced in
Jefferson’s hands with a few interlinings by
Adams and Franklin. The discussion was
continued for several days and at two p.m.
on the afternoon of that memorable day
the 4th of July, the Declaration of Ameri-
can Independence was adopted by unani-
mous vote.
	All day long the old bell man of the
State House had stood in the steeple ready
to sound the note of freedom to the city and
nation. As the hours went by he grew dis-
couraged and said, “they will never do
it,” just then a lad ran out and shouted at
the top of his voice “Ring! ring!” and the
aged veteran did ring as he had never rung
before; everywhere the Declaration was re-
ceived with enthusiasm.
	At Philadelphia the king’s arms
were torn down and burned in the street, at
Williamsburg, Charleston, and Savannah
there were bonfires and illuminations, at
Boston the Declaration was read in Fanuil
Hall while the cannon from Fort Hill and
Dorchester shook the city of the Puritans.
At New York the populace pulled down the
leaden statue of George third and cast it in-
to bullets. Washington received the mes-
sage with joy and ordered the declaration to
be read at the head of each brigade.
Former suffering and future peril were
alike forgotten in the general rejoicing. It
is impossible to give a detailed account of
the events of the great war with the suc-
cesses and reverses attending the grand,
brave men composing the army. But right
here let me say that many of Washington’s
reverses and defeats were brought about by
the stubbornness and disobedience of his in-
ferior officers. When destruction seemed
staring them in the face, France came to
the rescue. From the day that Baron
Stuben, a veteran soldier, and disciplina-
rian from the army of Frederick the Great
entered the army there was a marked im-
provement in the condition and discipline
of the soldiers. The American regulars
were never again beaten when confronted
by the British in equal numbers. In Nov-
ember 1776 Arthur Lee and Benjamin
Franklin were appointed by Congress to
negotiate an open treaty of friendship with
the French king. Now it was that the
genius of Dr. Franklin shone with a

[Column 2]
peculiar lustre. No nation ever had an
ambassador of greater wisdom and sagacity.
In 1778 a treaty was concluded when France
and the United States entered into relations
of reciprocal friendship. In America the
news of the new alliance was received with
great rejoicing; in England with vindictive
anger. In 1778 George third became will-
ing to treat with his American subjects.
Everything that the colonies claimed was
ceded. Commissioners were sent to America
but Congress informed them that nothing
but an express acknowledgement of the
independence of the United States would
now be accepted. In July of 1780 a French
squadron and six thousand land troops ar-
rived to aid the poor discouraged half-starv-
ed men of the American army. Washing-
ton and Rochambeau together planned for
future campaigns. In July 1780 the country
was shocked by the rumor that Benedict
Arnold had turned traitor, and the news
though hardly credible was true. The
brave, rash man who on behalf of the
patriot cause had suffered untold hardships,
and shed his blood on more fields than one,
had blotted the record of his heroism with a
deed of treason. Plans were laid for his
capture but he escaped the penalty, while
young Mr. Andre through whom the cor-
respondence had been kept up was taken
and executed. In the opening of the year
1781 the condition of the army was desper-
ate, no food, no pay, no clothing; but on
the 19th of October that same year through
the united efforts of the two great leaders,
Washington and Lafayette, Cornwallis the
great English general was taken, which
virtually ended the war of the Revolution.
When the news reached Philadelphia, the
members of Congress assembled and the
dispatch was read from Washington. The
members exulting and weeping for glad-
ness went in concourse with the citizens to
the Dutch Lutheran church and turned the
afternoon into a thanksgiving. The note
of rejoicing sounded through the length
and breadth of the land. On the 30th of
November 1782 articles of peace were agreed
to and signed on the part of Great Britian
by Oswald, and on behalf of the United
States by Franklin, Adams, Jay and
Laurens. In the following April the terms
were ratified by Congress, but it was not
until the 3rd of November 1783 that a
final treaty was effected between all the
nations that had been at war. On that day
the ambassadors of Holland, Spain
England, France and the United States, in
a solemn conference at Paris, agreed to and
signed the articles of a permanent peace.
The terms of the treaty of 1783 were brief-
ly these. A full and complete recognition
of the independence of the United States,
the recession by Great Britian of Florida to
Spain, the surrender of all the remaining
territory east of the Mississippi and the
lakes to the United States, the free navi-
gation of the Mississippi and the lake by
American vessels, the concession of mutual
rights in the Newfounland fisheries, and the
retention by Great Britian of Canada and
Nova Scotia with the exclusive control of
the St. Lawrence. Such in brief is the
history of the great struggle of the Ameri-
can colonies for independence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Happiness does not always ride in a
carriage.


To be always amiable content; and lov-
ing in the home, where there is no motive
for assuming virtues that do not exist, is to
give the most conclusive proof of true 
Christian character.
	No human face is exactly the same in its
lines on each side; no leaf is perfect in its
lobes, and no branch in its symmetry. All
admit irregularity, as they imply change.
To banish imperfections is to destroy ex-
pression, to check exertion, to paralyze
vitality. All things are better, lovelier,
and more beloved for the imperfections
which have been divinely appointed, that
the law of human life may be effort, and the
law of human judgment may be mercy. —
Ruskin.


AN OLD, OLD RHYME.

Married in white, you have chosen all right.
Married in gray, you will go far away.
Married in black, you will wish yourself back.
Married in red, you will wish yourself dead.
Married in green, ashamed to be seen.
Married in blue, he will always be true. 
Married in yellow, ashamed of your fellow.
Married in brown, you will live out of town.
Married in pink, your spirits will sink.


TO LITTLE TEMPLETON BENNETT.

Lo in the Temple, Holy shrine
Was born an infant boy, divine
His sacred place of birth
Might well be envied by the nobles of the earth.

Who with all their titles, wealth and splendor
	rare
Cannot boast of a jewel that can with this baby
	boy compare
Born in a Temple, heir to the Priesthood,
Parentage, honorable, true and good.

No no, Zion’s babes born heirs to the Throne,
Who can compare with them, ah! there are none
If early they are taught in their fresh rosy youth,
To walk in the path of the beautiful truth.

Dear little Templeton guileless and sweet,
May angels ere guard thy tender feet
Crowning thy life with the purest of love,
Enriching thy mind with bright gems from above

So that like the fragrant flowers
That bloom to gladden this earth of ours
So may thy life with beauty and richness glow;
Life with good deeds, and blessings here below.

							MRS. S. STOCK.


WE acknowledge with sincere thanks the
gift of a handsome souvenir of the Co-
lumbian year sent us from San Francisco.
An illustrated poem entitled "La Rabida’
a California Columbian Souvenir. There
is a picture of the convent on the cover and
the engravings are first the convent, then
Columbus beseeching the monk at the door
of the convent his boy stretched on the 
ground near by half famished, third the
court scene of the Queen Isabella of Castile
and her courtiers etc., the ship Santa
Maria leaving Palos, sails hoisted, the
people on shore waving adieux, while the
Priest is blessing him with outstretched
arms. Columbus on the sea, Columbus
landing in the tropics, his return, Columbus
taken prisoner, the old priest Juan Perez.
	It is a beautifully written poem and the 
illustrations are excellent. The press
notices we have seen give Miss Mary Lam-
bert the author great praise. It is indeed 
worthy of high commendation.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS.

	Mrs. WILLMIRTH East President of the
Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake in
Arizona is spending the season in this City
and may be found at the residence of her
son, 642, East, First South St. Sisters
who wish to communicate with her will
please note the address. Sister East will
be pleased to visit any of the branches of
the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. or Pri-
mary, as she has been familiar with these
organizations from the beginning here in
the valley; she has leisure and would be
pleased to visit among the associations.
Mrs. East is a good strong advocate of
Woman Suffrage and thoroughly patriotic.

	IT is not possible for an editor to please
every body, and we find it difficult to pub-
lish all our subscribers think proper. Some-
times articles are rejected because nnsuit-
able, and it is not possible to make the ex-
planations public. In reference to death
notices, it is almost impossible to keep up
with the number sent in for publication.
We try to make a complete record of those
sisters who have been efficient and faithful
in the Relief Society, as the EXPONENT is
the official organ of that Society. If oc-
casionally one is inadvertently missed, it is
certainly not intentional, but one cannot pub-
lish more than a column or two of obituaries
in one issue.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	IN the summer time most people prefer
to eat as little meat as possible and cool and
dainty salads, are a fine substitute, they
also are very nice for luncheons and having
tried the following cream salad dressing,
we can recommend it to our readers to be
used either on cold boiled potatoes, lettuce,
cabbage or other vegetables, or on the
lobster, shrimp, or other fine meats: 2 eggs,
3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 1/2 tea cup of
cream or milk, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, 1/2 
teaspoonful of mustard 1/4 teaspoonful of salt.
Beat eggs well, add sugar, salt and mustard,
then vinegar and cream. Place bowl in a
basin of boiling water, if you have not a
farina kettle and stir until thickness of rich
cream. If the water boils all the time it
will take about five minutes; set aside to
cool and use as needed.
	Another simple salad is made of small
cakes of cottage cheese served upon a bed
of shreded lettuce and garnished with
mayonnaise and small crescent olives.
Many people do not understand the word
mayonnaise so commonly used in recipes
for salads and gravies. The word means a
stiff emulsion of egg and oil if you do not
like the oil, butter or cream may be used,


I wonder if every one realizes the many
uses of ammonia, as a child I only recollect
it in the smelling bottle for the purpose of
reviving a fainting woman, but I find it so
useful in many ways now. It softens the
water so nicely for washing flannels, and in
the bath. especially for the hair it is useful.
A little in the water in which silver or
glass is washed brightens them.


OBITUARIES.

Editor Woman's Exponent: 
	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women, Sister Janet Lowe
Dowdle, the beloved wife of Robert Dowdle, and
daughter of Thomas and Eliza Lowe.
	Sister Dowdle was born April the 20th 1852 at


Fifeshire Scotland and died April the 26th, 1893,
at Coveville, Cache Co. Utah.
	She emigrated to Utah with her parents when
she was three years old, and grew to womanhood
among this people, was married to Brother Rob-
ert Dowdle of Franklin, Idaho,October 3rd, 1868,
removed to Coveville in 1876, where she resided
’til her death. She was the mother of sixteen
children ten of whom died in their infancy, and
six are left to mourn her loss, the youngest a
babe at the time of her death; she suffered much
but was true and faithful to the last. She was
one of those who have come up through much
tribulation, who washed their robes in the blood
of the Lamb. She has finished her work and
fought the good fight and now rests from her
labors, and her noble example and integrity to
the truth will long be remembered by those who
knew her; she died in full faith of a glorious
resurrection, surrounded by her family, brothers
and sisters, all but her two youngest brothers who
are both absent on missions.
	Funeral services were held in the Franklin
Meeting House, and her remains were followed
to the cemetery, by a large concourse of relatives
and friends to pay their last respects to the dear,
departed one.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Father in Heaven has called
from our midst Sister Janet Dowdle who was al-
ways true and faithful in the performance of her
duties in our Society and had by meekness of
spirit won the respect and love of all who associ-
ated with her, we feel to express our love for her
in these few lines.
	Resolved, that as a sister, associate, and friend
we feel that words are inadequate to express the
high estimation in which we held her, and while
we feel the deepest sorrow at the loss we sustain
in being deprived of her society, we bow submis-
sively to the will of Him who doeth all things
well and say “Thy will, O, Lord not ours be
done.”
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and fol-
low in the example she set us that of being a
faithful Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives;
that one copy of these resolutions be presented
to them, and a copy be entered on the record of
our Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
	Dear Sister Janet we feel that you rest in peace
and that your work on earth is done and well
done; may we, like you, prove faithful in all
things and when we go hence receive the wel-
come plaudit, “Well done ”
			ELIZABETH TITENSOR Prest.
			Jane R. Biggs, Secretary.


IT is with sorrowing hearts we the members of
the Wallsburg Relief Society report the death of
Sister M. L. Comic Kerby. She departed this
life May 9th, 1893; Was born September 19th,
1823, on the Island of Jersey.
	She was baptized July 12th, 1849 by Elder
William C. Dunbar. Crossed the plains in a
hand cart company with her husband and four
children, was the mother of ten children, was a
faithful member of the Society from its organiza-
tion, treasurer thirteen years and always ready to
help. Her counsel was wise in temporal as well
as spiritual things. Her energies were alive to
the interest of the kingdom of God. She worked
diligently to get the genealogy of her dead.
Worked faithful until the last one had their work
done.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Wallsburg Relief Society do sincerely
sympathize with her bereaved husband and family
and farther be it resolved that we strive to emu-
late her noble example.
	Farewell Sister Mary: We must bid you a fond
adieu a crown of bright glory awaits you and
shouts of Hosannah on the other shore welcomed
you—and the assurance that your work here was
well done must be our consolation and that a
starry crown will be your reward.
			ESTHER DABLING,
			M. A. BATTY COUNSELORS.
			M. A. BURNS Assistant.
			LUCINDA M. BOREN, Secretary.


DIED on the 9th of May 1893, in Spanish Fork,
Utah Co, Utah, of pneumonia. Sister Margaret
Miller, the beloved wife of James Miller, aged
63 years 5 months and 11 days.
	Deceased was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in


the year 1830. Emigrated to Massachusetts in
1851, then to Salt Lake City in 1852, and was
there married to James Miller.
	She is the mother of six children all of whom
survive her: She has been a faithful wife and
mother, and an earnest worker in the Relief
Society, having held the positions of Teacher,
Counselor, and President.

	Resolved, That while we deplore her loss yet
we know that she was a faithful Latterday Saint
and has gone to receive the crown which has
been promised to the faithful ones, and that our
loss is her gain.
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved
family our heart felt sympathies. We feel to
strive to emulate her many virtues and her
patient and noble life.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these
resolutions to the bereaved family and that we
have them published in the Woman’s EXPONENT,
and the Spanish Fork Sun, and that they be 
spread upon the records of this association.

	No more can care and sorrow come,
		To grieve that gentle loving heart,
	For all thy earthly toils are done,
		And with thee we must part.
				BARBARA C. BANKS,
				SARAH M. BOYACK,
				LIZZIE A. HUTCHINSON,
	In behalf of the Third Ward Relief Society of
Spanish Fork.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 pm.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER &. STEAM FITTERS

[icon of a pointing finger] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--]- [----] [---]mp[-]ly responded to
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping do[--] to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
						 Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND
					ACCOUCHEUR
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations
