
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, AND 15, 1893. No. 1.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Passing Thoughts
—Camelia. Our Precious Ones—Bertha Pack-
ard Englet. Sister Mercy R. Thompson—Lula.
Three Score and Ten—E. D. and L. D. Alder
W. S. A.—Maggie Bassett. A Faithful Sis-
ter—L. M. Boren. Who Mother Goose Was—
M. A. T. War of the Revolution. R. S. Report
Mattie Blair Hanson. Primary at Wallsburg—
Ida Boren. Notes and News. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—The Woman's Exponent. Edi-
torial Notes.—Memorial Day.
	POETRY:—The One Doubt—Lu Dalton.


[Column 1]
THE ONE DOUBT.

I sit alone this ghostly night, with sad, slow
	beating heart,
A severed and polluted thing, from all I love
	apart;
Outside, the dreary, sobbing rain drips slowly
	from the eaves
And seems to mourn my crushing pain as tender
	friendship grieves,
Perhaps the tears mine eyes refuse find thus their
	voice and breath, 
And thus baptize with heavenly dews this lonely
	house of death.
No fear of night’s dark visitor who haunt un-
	guarded doors,
Who enter in and stealthily creep over chamber
	floors
In search of prey, it may be gold, or silver’s
	pallid sheen.
Which they will have though murder stand them
	and their prize between,'
Contagion is a trusty guard, and none will dare
	his might, 
Nor foe nor friend come hitherward—I am alone
	tonight..
My slow, dull thoughts, like ocean deep whose
	tides resistless roll,
Thus ebb and flow with solemn sweep beyond
	my weak control, 
Or idly gather dust and sand and dark, decaying
	leaves,
Like wind that blows across the land and worth-
	less trash receives.
To toss as idly here and there in dark, unsightly
	heaps,
And mock with laughter my despair which swoons
	but never sleeps.
Again, they heave upon my heart like mountain-
	weights of woe,
And almost crush my soul apart from its clay
	temple low;
One groan escapes my close-locked lips like Etna
	bursting through
Her granite crest which reels and dips, while
	flames obscure the blue, 
Blot out the sunshine clear and fair, and intercept
	its ray,
Replacing with its lurid glare the wholesome
	light of day.
I strive to think of angel bands in happy homes
	of light,
Of greetings glad and clasping hands and scenes
	of pure delight;
I strive to grasp, like drowning hands, the holy
	things I know,
To save my soul from treach’rous sands which
	clasp like Kelpie floe;

[Column 2]
﻿But oh! I cannot find the strength which still I
	know is there—
Before my eyes will still arise a picture of despair.
I see a face convulsed and pale, a struggle brave
	for breath,
A loving soul, when my hope failed, for my sake
	fighting death. 
The earth is wide, and, miles on miles, like some
	deep, crystal sea,
The precious air, in rippling smiles rolls bound-
	less, sweet and free;
With doors and windows open thrown to woo the
	balmy tide,
My loved one might not drink it in but gasping,
	struggling died.
The mothers might face undismayed a ravening
	wolf or bear,  
With which to  struggle for our. own and save or
	danger share;
But when the foe all silent comes on midnight’s
	heavy wings,
And fasten’s on our precious ones its deadly 
	venomed fangs, 
When we can only wring our hands, and only
	wildly pray, 
Our hearts break while we helpless stand and see
	them borne away. 
How often, by his parching lips, his loved one’s
	names were said,
And how he longed just once to see their faces
	’round his bed!
But oh! he knew that pain and death in his
	caresses slept,
And, to his latest, conscious breath, in safety
	wished them kept;
And I, his mother, must refrain the parting kiss
	to take—
“Twould only be one added pain—for other dear
	one’s sake.
Still for their sake, in cruel haste, through dark-
	ness and through rain,
I’ve sent him from his mother’s door, who may
	not come again,
In shroud and casket white and fair,with flowers
	on his breast,
Unkissed, but sanctified with prayer, my child is
	gone to rest.
This sobbing rain, like healing tears which my
	eyes cannot shed, 
I’ll hear through all the coming years, still weep-
	ing o’er my dead.
Perhaps tomorrow I can weep through this wide- 
	eyed dismay; 
Perhaps the blessed balm of sleep will come be-
	fore the day;
Perhaps a ray of light may pierce this awful sphere
	of gloom,  
Perhaps to grief so dumb, so fierce may hope of
	comfort come;
Perhaps some angel may descend to help me
	bear my pain,
And prove my deep and dreadful loss to be my
	darling’s gain.
If I could know God took, my child, of free and 
	gracious will,
The widow’s son I could give up and bid my grief
	Be still!
But oh, the doubt! the rending doubt that he
	untimely went 
Because the earth was sick and foul and deadly
	breathings sent,

[Column 3]
Which, ent'ring in his house of life, drove his
	pure spirit out;—
Ah me! ’twixt faith and fear the strife around
	this dreadful doubt!
If I could know, if I could know that he was
	called away
About his Father’s work to go, and had no need
	to stay,
I do believe that I could bless the hand that holds
	the rod
O’er me, while in his loveliness he goes to dwell
	with God,
And there fulfill the wondrous plan he here so
	fondly laid,
To build a better house for me, with trees for
	fruit and shade. 
In such a daze, I almost feel all other ties un-
	bound, 
And that the child I seem to lose is now but truly
	found,
It may be so, I do not know; God’s will in all be
	done.
But he I mourn is safe, and oh, I have a younger.
	son,
Whose need of mentor, friend and guide, shonld
	all-sufficient be 
To help his mother lay aside undue despondency=
I must shake off this blank despair and face my
	life again,
And lose in holy mother care the keen edge of
	my pain;
Let me remember one who said, when scorched
	with grief like flame: 
Methinks the purest bliss on earth is sorrow with-
	out shame!
And shame no smallest blot hath laid upon the
	record brief
Which tells the story of his life—dear thought to
	bless my grief.
Farewell, my son, my loving one who ever 
	thought and planned
What small or great things might be done by 
	his own boyish hand
To please his mother, comfort me and help me
	bear my load;
Because, though child, he seemed to see I’ve
	walked a weary road,
I cannot pierce the mystery now—hereafter I 
	shall know
If he were called, or if my hand through weak-
	ness let him go.
LU DALTON.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXII.

	LADY ANNA rather enjoyed the quiet
restfulness of the summer day at the old
Castle and recalled the sweetness of her
childhood, forgetting the unpleasantness of
her father remembering how much he had
left her to have her own way, though he
had refused to associate with his neighbors
or to allow her to accept their invitations;
thinking it over now, she was glad of it for
they would not intrude upon her in her
solitude there, when she so much wished to
be left to herself; she was too proud to tell 
her troubles, she would scarcely acknowl-
edge them to herself; once or twice during
that day she caught herself soliloquizing,


[Column 1]
aloud,” I’m not so sorry I’m alone in the
world I could not have endured the thought
of my mother knowing me neglected only
such a short time married, and my father
would have been violent had he lived to
see me thus, he would have made Maitland
suffer or treat me differently, there would
have been many a stormy scene doubtless,
it is far better to suffer alone,”—while thus
reflecting Lady Anna like most young
women was possessed with the one idea, her
own trials, and unaware that her father had
been quite as cruel if not more so indeed;
she was so absorbed in herself, everything
else was as nothing. Baby Edward was
like a young prince among the servants at
the Castle, the old lodgekeeper and his
good dame made much of the nurse and
fondled the child in adoration almost, and
before the day was over nurse Werner
heard more of the family history in many
things than Lady Anna herself for trusted
people such as these two old folks, see and
hear much that is kept from younger mem-
bers of the household. Had Lady Anna
known of the gossip she would have kept
nurse and baby at her side; the coachman
too was prying around here and there to
pass the time away, and years afterwards
these two talked over the wonderful tale
heard that one day at Hilliard castle.
Waiting that evening when all was ready
for the drive home, the Walton coachman
could scarcely refrain from chattering and
as he helped nurse to settle herself and
baby, said with a knowing wink in his
eye, “great folks are som’w’at like, the
world o’er, they’re no better than they
should be and it al’ays leaks out.” Nurse
replied in much the same strain and the
two soon found a chance to talk over the
gossip together, and anon the troop of ser-
vants at Walton Hall were posted on the 
old stories about Sir Edward and Lady
Walton, that had been a profound secret so
many years.
	Mrs. Bland interviewed her husband on
the question of taking the Walton heir to
“the new world,” and he thought that if the
Waltons opposed it there might be too much
controversy, and it would be better for Anna
and all around to let the matter rest, be-
sides he said “I’m not sure I can undertake
a sea voyage and for the time being Jane,
advise your cousin not to agitate the sub-
ject wait for circumstances to develop, see
what news will come from Mr. Harrison
and Clair, they will not remain away
always, and should Clair return she would
be more cheerful and her life would be quite
different, he ought to come back and look
after the estate, it needs a master, every-
thing will go to ruin under such poor
management, left to incompetent people
who think of nothing but eating and drink-
ing.”
	“Poor Anna how sorry I am for her she
is so unhappy,” replied Mrs. Bland, “I
tried my best to interest her in some way,
but she broods over Maitland’s neglect, and
never thinks of her own health; what a
change from the time when I came to my
uncle, how beautiful she was, how firm the
step, and her voice was as sweet as a young
lark’s, if she could only rise above it and
find some solace in life, not that I would
like to see her dash into society among the
frivolous butterflies of fashion, like Lady
Walton her mother-in-law, O, no, she is
far too good to live for admiration, to dance
and flirt, and idle- away her time among the
beau monde."

[Column 2]	
	"And pray my dear what would you
advise a woman tc do who is young, beau-
tiful, and attractive, and whose husband
follows the devices of fashionable life, and
leaves her at home to depend on her own
resources. to pass away the time; remember
people like your cousin, have no household
duties, they are simply to be waited upon,
and to take no thought of their establish-
ments, and in her case she is scarcely the
mistress, though the Lady in chief is away,
the Walton household would scarce recog-
nize such a dainty young woman to control
the affairs, but Jane my dear you have
never told me before of Maitland’s aunt,
who is she? and why does she assume to
dictate to her nephew’s wife?” the Doctor
stopped short waiting for a reply from his
wife, but she knew very little about Miss
Walton. “She is a spinster aunt, and puts
on airs evidently, finding my cousin such a
lamb-like creature; possibly thinks she can
make capital out of her, and get her own
ends gratified, find a rich husband at the
seaside; . bathing resorts are considered
famous places for match-making I’ve been
told, but if she once rouses Anna’s stubborn
nature, she will find the old lion in her,
though so far in her life it has not been
roused; I have seen enough to know that
the same indomitable will power that uncle
Edward had is latent in his daughter, and
the Walton’s must take care they don’t go
too far; once the Hilliard blood is stirred,
one could scarcely feel safe as to results."
	“Let us hope my dear that all will settle
down quietly, Anna has shown that she
can bear a great deal without retaliating.”
	“From Maitland yes, perhaps from his
mother, but not from a third party; I ad-
vised her not to allow the subject to come
up, and I wish it never might; she is very
excitable. You asked just now dear, what
a pretty woman could do under such circum-
stances as Anna’s. She might devote her-
self to music, she plays beautifully, but
then there is no one to hear her, she re-
ceives no visitors except such as her hus-
band brings, and they are not people he
wants her to mingle with. She is simply
shut out from the world, and she is right in
trying to go away and get Maitland to
change his habits of living altogether; I
wish with all my heart something would
transpire to  induce him to go abroad any-
where almost, and whatever came of it, it
would be a relief.”
	It was not many days until something
did happen and a decided change in all the
family took place. News came from Italy
of Lady Walton’s engagement to an Italian
Count. Maitland was furious, the lawyers
from London were sent for and the house
was in great confusion. Aunt Walton was
indignant and poor Anna in a constant
fever of excitement lest there should be
serious difficulty; she said nothing except
to try and persuade Maitland to wait for
more than a floating rumor, but he could
not be silent. “He’s some poor rascal no
doubt who wants money to carry his title,
and thinks he can come over here, and con-
trol Walton Hall, and bring his violet-eyed
crew with him, and sport and hunt; and
play too may be, here in this very house,
I’ll teach him a lesson, he can’t come here;
I’m master of Walton Hall and no Italian
Count can intrude upon my domain,” all
this was poured out to his demure little wife
and much more in the same strain.
	By and by a letter came to the barrister’s
office in London, saying Lady Walton’s
marriage with the Count Sautarelli would

[Column 3]
be solemnized in Rome, and the party
would travel on the continent before return-
ing to England. Everything was to be
very quiet, and Maitland was not to be dis-
turbed by any arrangements, that might
be necessary to make in preparing papers,
or documents. Lady Walton would be
grieved to cause her son the least unhappi-
ness. All these facts were communicated
to Maitland after the manner of the English
law, and notwithstanding Maitland’s annoy-
ance he consoled himself by thinking he
was still more his own master, than if his
mother were to return alone; she would be
too much engrossed with her new conditions
to interfere with him. But she was draw-
ing heavily upon her banker and he began to
inquire as to his own rights of interference.
He found that his father had settled things
a little differently to most English noble-
men, and his mother’s inheritance was the
lion’s share of all except the country seat of
which he had entire control, but with the
understanding it was her home whenever
she chose to remain there. Maitland had
been betting heavily of late and entertain-
ing his comrades in a much more extrava-
gant fashion than usual, he knew he was
drawing largely but never dreamed his
mother would marry again and their in-
terests be divided; no provision in the will
had hinted at another marriage and Mait-
land had fancied his mother’s love for him
was the one tender passion of her lifetime.
He knew little about women in a general
sense, his companions were men, and he
never knew much of the domestic life of
his own parents. He had been sent to
school early and traveled abroad with a
private tutor who was wholly devoted to
subjects apart from women, and he had
fallen in love with an unsophisticated girl
when quite young, and he drew all his
conclusions from his own experience, for
he had neither been a great reader of
character, or student of books. In fact
though Anna worshipped him as she did, he
was only very common place in many res-
pects except that he was “well-born.”
	Lady Walton’s marriage ceremony was
performed by Father Giuda a Roman
Catholic Priest and Miss Walton the aunt
was furious when the news came that any
one who had ever borne the Walton name
should be connected with the hated Catho-
lics, “to think my brother’s wife should
stoop so low, its a wonder he can rest in
his tomb, but the dead don’t know I’m
sure of it or many things would transpire
we never hear of.”
	“O don’t take it so to heart,” said Lady
Anna pitifully, for she was generous to her
enemies even, and Aunt Walton had shown
no consideration for her, “I’m sure Lady
Walton means it all for the best, she was
very lonely here, and she tired of society,
didn’t know what to do after Lord Walton’s
death and so went abroad to forget her
troubles.”
	“Troubles she never had any, and as for
occupation isn’t there plenty to do on an
estate like this, looking after the people
that are employed to see that they don’t rob
you at every turn,” said the aunt taking
the matter practically as she was likely to,
seeing she was a younger member of a
family where the eldest son had inherited,
and others were left with only a pittance.
	“How do you know the dead can’t come
back, Aunt Walton?” inquired Lady Anna
half afraid to ask the question, I should
like to know more than I do about such
matters, I often have thought of late if


only my mother would come and talk to
me, and comfort me I should be better and
happier.”
	“Really Anna you alarm me, are you
losing your wits, you have everything, and
then want the dead to come to you, well for
my part I prefer the living, but if you like
ghosts and all that sort of thing you ought
to be content for this old place has a legend
that would satisfy the most superstitious.”
	“This very place Walton Hall aunt, do
you mean what you say? Maitland surely
didu’t know when he brought me here.”
	Very likely not my child, but Lady Wal-
ton knows, and that is probably one of her
reasons for going away, as for me I’m too
practical for these things to make any im-
pression, and if the ghosts came to me I
should simply defy them, and tell them I
wanted to be left alone, and get my re-
gular night’s sleep; but its only silly,
nervous, fidgety people that ever see
them.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.﻿


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PASSING THOUGHTS.

	DRESS AND COLOR:—In a woman’s paper
the subject of dress finds a very fitting
place, for what woman does not delight to
a greater or less degree in the arranging of
the toilette, and in the present time the
theme is considered of sufficient impor-
tance not only to be discussed in the
fashion magazines but in the metropolitian
dailies and monthly reviews as well as in
public meetings, and conventions. “How
shall we dress?” is now a momentous
question, shall we adopt the Jenness Miller
style and consider our health while our
fashionable sisters follow the French
modiste and are conspicious in crinoline,
shall we wear the Syrian blouse and bloom-
ers with the knee skirt or continue sweep-
ing the streets with the graceful but abom-
inable bell skirt.
	The woman of sense need ask no questions
in order to always look well dressed, for in
this day of such varied fashions there are a
few simple rules to follow which though a
woman be poor or rich, old or young home-
ly or beautiful she may appear fashionable
and well dressed; avoid extremes select a
becoming color or combination of colors
and make your dresses neat.
	How we have laughed at the pictures of
our older sisters taken long ago in what
was then termed the Deseret costume, but
do you know it differs very little from the
pretty and becoming Jenness Miller suit.
	Some few Utah women adopted this
Deseret suit and made every effort to induce
all the woman of Utah to do so, but it was
a failure. It was not the fashion and the
women refused to wear it though it was
certainly not half so ugly as the immense
hoops they adopted shortly after.
	Each woman has a personality, which is
distinguished often in her dress, and
somehow we have always, until recently
objected to uniforms, (that is on ourselves)
but nowadays surely woman’s dress is be-
coming much the same everywhere. The
uniform, I call it, is this most common, but
quite taking and “swell like” navy blue
skirt and blazer with the fresh pretty shirt
waist. A lady friend recently arrived from
Chicago, says one can scarcely tell one wo-
man from another on the streets for they
all have navy blue dresses, shirt waists,
sailor hats and low tan shoes. A costume
simple pretty and neat but a uniform never-

[Column 2]
theless. Navy blue is certainly the pre-
vailing color, the truth is, it is not at all
trying—brunettes as well as blondes look
well in it—it is not easily soiled and is ap-
propriate for any occasion but my! how
awfully common,every sailor,soldier, cadet,
policeman, railroad officer, street railway
conductor and motorman, and now the
women as well dress in navy blue, and sad
to admit it but Chinamen also; not real
aristocratic Chinamen but just ordinary
everyday Chinamen.
	Is there not such a thing as extremes
even in color. Not long since black was
the only color women chose for their best
costumes, and only fancy in this dusty
country; the work it took to keep those
black dresses clean. Now gray is the
prettiest and neatest color in the world,
especially for elderly ladies, young women
look well in something brighter, the subdued
half tones of the green, purple, orange and
red; and children, if they are clean, are
beautiful in anything though white is ever
the favorite.
	Children:—What strange things one sees
and hears in a short trip on the street rail-
way; I have sometimes felt like carrying
a note book with me just for the purpose of
jotting down a few items heard on the way
and I am sure it would make an interesting
volume. The other day while the car was
side tracked, I heard a voice behind me re-
lating something about a woman having
given her children away, and I immediately
strained my efforts to catch her every word.
	The thought of a mother giving her own
little ones away seems most terrible, but of
course one does not always know the
circumstances which necessitate such an act,
yet it seems in this instance the mother
only wished to rid herself of the burden
of caring for them and her adieux to them
were neither pitiful nor regretful. Only
think, a woman to be so heartless as to
willingly give away the beautiful gifts of
God, to a stranger; and these children born
from such an unfeeling mother, what can
one expect of them?
	The little boy six years old has already
learned that the street car will carry him to
town for nothing, and day after day he runs
away and stays on the public streets until
ten and eleven o’clock, and two nights I
heard her say he had been out all night
long, having slept in a box on Main street.
Is the guardian firm enough or is the wan-
dering spirit so inherent in him, that the
child is bound to follow a wicked life.
What can the destiny of such a child be? I
thought of the terrible, recent tragedy in
this city when the twelve year old boy shot
the little lad only five years old, and won-
dered if this little wayward child was not
likely to become a youthful criminal.
Does not the woman who accepted the
charge of those children take upon herself
as much responsibility as the natural moth-
er would, and if she is incompetent and
finds she cannot control the child the
county should be advised and find for
them a home where they can be controlled;
stricter measures in the home compelling
obedience is likely to make better citizens.
If we have a curfew law let it be enforced,
at any rate have some regulations to keep
the youth off the streets at night, or else
the reformatories and prison will be filled
sooner than we know.
	Some people make a great mistake about
the Sabbath they seem to think because it
is a day of rest that they must make it the

[column 3]
pleasure day of the week, and they seek
amusement and diversion at the resorts and
public places. To me Sunday is the home
day, a sweet, quiet,restful day.
	I would have as llttle work as possible
around on Sunday, and the children should
neither visit nor go picnicing.  After the
Sunday school they are not restrained and
compelled to sit and read religious books
neither are they allowed to romp and run as
on other days, but a happy quiet time at
home is the Sunday program and I believe
it makes the little ones more thoughtful,
and gives them a reverence for the day we
call the “Lords Day.” Mother’s always
have so many things to do but surely the
baking and brewing and washing and sweep-
ing and all, are not half so urgent or neces-
sary as the care of the little children; keep
them around you mothers all you can, em-
ploy them in some light way, you can’t
imagine the steps a little fellow can save his
mamma waiting on her during the work-
ing hours, and when the work is done per-
haps mamma can find time to play and romp
with the children awhile, try it and see how
soon the roses will come back to your cheeks,
the brightness to the eyes,and the roundness
to the limbs; a game of ball, pomp or hide
and seek, or some childish sport is just as
strengthening as an hour’s drilling with
dumb bells, or Indian clubs in a physical
culture class, and it makes the children
happy and keeps them home with you as
well. CAMELIA.


OUR PRECIOUS ONES.

NOT our little baby charges do I mean
now, but our dear old white-haired people
who share our homes.
	Do you know, I think it is a sure sign
that God's approval and blessing are ours
if we make the downhill road very 
pleasant to those who cling so trustingly to
us, who once, in years long gone, clung as
trustingly to them.  How many months
and years were we wholly dependent upon
the kindness shown us by those dear,
patient people!  We were sick, and cross,
and needed much care; knew nothing at 
first, and were ever a terrible expense.
They now have the hoarded wisdom of
threescore years and ten.  They have met
the storms, and are ripened by the blasts
and suns of many winters and summers.
	Besides, their pleasure now rests in us
alone.  Their dear hearts are open to the 
imprints we may put there.  I know their
eyes are ever scanning our faces, reading
in them the prospects of the hour.  If we
treat them slightly the wound is sure to
be deeper than it would have been in
earlier times, for now they are so wonder-
fully tender in heart.  We can hardly realize
the utter truth of this last statement unless
we closely watch a face that is wrinkled
with age, when the limbs are weak and stiff,
the hands tired with past work, and heart
hungry for our love.
	Almost the same simple joy is seen when
kind words are spoken to the aged as is
seen in the face of a child.  And, as we
know we were tenderly cherished in child-
hood, let us as tenderly cherish those who
now need our love more than we ever did
theirs.  Let it be our first joy and duty to
make them happy, to make their roads
smooth and pleasant, and God will know 
who are the ones that have deserved the 
"well done" by and by.
		BERTHA PACKARD ENGLET.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 1, and 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	THERE never was a time when there was
greater need of communication through the
press between women connected with or-
ganizations, or even individual women than
the present. The multitude of subjects
that agitate the human mind, and the
public welfare, that call for discussion and
an expression of views and opinions, and
the advanced progression of woman her-
self, as a part and parcel of the great body
politic, as well as the status she holds
educationally and socially, morally and
religiously in this age of the world, all
these are good and sufficient reasons, and in
fact demand that women composing any
great organization, or dwelling in any
locality where their influence is a help and
a power, should certainly have a woman’s
paper or journal of their own; and that
such a paper should be well sustained it is
needless to add. That women are in
many respects blind to their own best and
highest interest and advancement in this re-
gard is also apparent, or they would be
more alive and helpful in increasing the
circulation of papers published in their own
locality that advocate their own particular
views, and the advancement of theories and
practices, that will elevate and uplift hu-
manity to the broadest platform of human
rights for both men and women.
	That the WOMAN'S EXPONENT has been
doing this kind and character of work
from the very first number ever issued, no
woman need be afraid to state, and that it
has been a help, a comfort and a blessing
in thousands of homes and in the mission-
ary fields of labor abroad, as well as in re-
moving prejudice to many hundreds who
have accidently come in contact with it in
their travels, or have had it given them by
friends.	
	It seems remarkably strange that the
very women whose influence should be
used to uphold and maintain the paper,
should realize its importance so little as to
think because times are hard and there is
a depression in the money market and the
value of silver is low, that they cannot
afford to take a paper at a dollar a year,
which would not average the amount of
one third of a cent a day the year round;
when one puts it in this light how ridiculous
it seems, and when it is remembered that
two women or four may make up the money
between them and have the privilege of
reading what other women are doing all
over the great busy world would be more
amusing still, were it not that the hard

[Column 2]
practical fact still remains, that many wo-
men give a dollar to go to one theatre, or
to a circus or negro minstrel show, or for
some trifle when it would help a cause
along, that will benefit the whole human
race by spreading light and intelligence
abroad in the earth.
	The women of this people should be zeal-
ous to sustain the paper, that has been es-
tablished and circulated specially for the
advocacy of the principles which they be-
lieve, and for which they stand as repre-
sentatives and the faith of which they are
the living exponents and defenders.
	To make flimsy excuses such as are of-
ten sent in letters to this office is childish,
and if those who make them would only
stop and consider, that the one dollar a
year paid by one subscriber, is only a very
small part indeed of the price of one
month’s payment for printing alone, with-
out the consideration of postage or office
rent or any incidentals, perhaps it might
change the aspect of things very much.
	Newspapers and books are not published
without money, and when money is ex-
pended for good reading matter, for every
dollar paid there is value received with
interest.
	It is unnecessary to repeat what has been
so often published concerning the EXPONENT
of the good work it has done historically,
of the record it has made of the organiza-
tions of women, the biographies and a thou-
sand and one other things; surely the
sisters must feel that it is a necessity for
them and would be a calamity to be with-
out it, and if so then lend a helping hand
just now when it is so much wanted. Agi-
tate the subject get your friends and neigh-
bors to subscribe, and urge those who have
been dilatory in paying back subscriptions
to come forward and pay up all
delinquencies. 
	During the Columbian Exposition
thousands of copies should be given away,
and as zealous workers in a good cause, our
sisters ought to be able to do at least this
philanthropic work. Women are giving
away pamphlets and circulars daily
to advertise their views and their particular
organizations in Chicago at the present
time, and we often hear people say if there
was something for a few cents we could
afford to give to strangers and tourists,
that would give them some idea of our
work we would only be too glad to do it;
now the woman’s paper is just the right
thing for it is still very generally believed
that women in this Church are ignorant and
in subjection, one copy of the EXPONENT
(and it is sold for five cents a copy)
is tangible proof to the contrary. To those
who are anxious to do something in a
small way to scatter good seed and spread
the truth concerning the women of this part
of the world, why no surer method could be
advocated than to circulate the woman’s
paper. It speaks for itself and enters
where no Mormon Elder would be permit-
ted.
	We have frequently remarked in public
and in private, what would we have been
without the Relief Society? And with the
same propriety we can say what would the
Relief Society be without the EXPONENT?
The Deseret News tells the people why
they should subscribe etc. giving good and
substantial reasons, we might with good
grace tell the sisters why they should sub-
scribe for and maintain the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. 
But let us hope it will not be necessary

[Column 3]
to urge any further the necessity and im-
portance of subscribing; agents everywhere
should be active and energetic not only
in getting new names but in collecting
that which is due, and if this were effec-
tuallv done there would be little or no de-
lay in issuing the paper.
	Missionaries in Scandinavia in Holland
and in other foreign parts acknowledge how
helpful the EXPONENT is in their work
among the nations.
	Many times while in Chicago women
whom we had never seen before, said O,
yes I know the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,and it
has enlightened me greatly on your ques-
tion especially concerning the women of
your faith.  Let us hope that during this
year though the outlook generally is not
so bright as it has been, that women will as
is usually the case in emergencies and un-
der trying circumstances, exert themselves
more earnestly and industriously in every
good cause, and by all means in their
power help to sustain their own paper, and
make it a helpful and delightful source of
information and of moral and spiritual
strength in the households of the saints,
and a blessing and a credit to those outside
who are desirous of learning the truth con-
cerning our belief and our institutions.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE World’s Fair articles and report
of the Relief Society Conference of this
Stake are laid over until the next issue of
the paper to make room for shorter articles
that have come in and also for the long but
very excellent poem by Lu Dalton.
	BOUQUETS of flowers, roses, carnations
and other varieties fresh from the summer
gardens have been presented to us since our
return, fragrant with sweet perfume and 
more precious still because of the loving
hearts that prompted the beautiful gifts.
	MRS. MARGARET A. CAINE left for
Chicago on Saturday July 1st, to superin-
tend the silk processes.  Mrs. Eliza
Fosgreen of Brigham City and Miss Ella
Pyper of this City, have gone on with her
to reel and weave the silk in the Woman's
Building on the Fair grounds.
	Mrs. Salisbury Lady Commissioner for
Utah and Miss Keogh her altermate have
both gone East this month to meet with
the Board of Lady Managers, Mrs. Palmer
particularily desired Mrs. Salisbury's
presence on important matters, she will
probably not remain away very long.
Meantime the silk interest here will not be
neglected as all matters will be promptly
attended to by Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Chair-
man of the Silk Committee for Utah.
	THE ladies of Utah interested in the
World's Fair work will be pleased to know
that Mrs. Emily S. Richards, President of
the Territorial Board of Managers, returned
recently from Chicago, though her stay at
home will probably not be a long one, as
the arduous duties of the office, require so
much that must necessarily be attended to
or superintended personally.  Mrs. Rich-
ards will enjoy the fresh and invigorating
mountain air after being stifled up in a
crowded City, and in the Utah Building
where such crowds of people congregate
every day—the responsibility must be very
wearing and tiresome.  It is a position,
however, where the President has a great
opportunity to impart imformation and re-


move prejudice from the minds of the
people. Mrs. Richards and Miss Preston
both seem to have made a most favorable
impression upon the people with whom
they have been associated while at the post
of duty. We welcome them home, and
trust they may rest and recruit ready for
the fall campaign, which is likely to be more
trying because of the numerous attendance
and the state ceremonies on the ninth of
September.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON.

	On the fifteenth of June, 1893, Sister
Mercy Rachel Thompson completed her
eighty-sixth year. A few special friends
called on her, and were well repaid for so
doing, by listening to recitals of events
which transpired in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and his brother Hyrum. With
both of those noble men of God, Sister
Thompson was personally and intimately
associated for a number of years, being
sister-in-law to Hyrum. And in her
memory and journal are stored many in-
teresting and valuable things, connected
with the Church and its leaders in those
early times, which it is not only pleasur-
able, but profitable as well, for younger
people to hear rehearsed. Indeed, there is
no better way, (so I thought while being
entertained at Sister Mercy’s) for younger
members of the Church to pass away an
hour or two occasionally, than in the com-
pany of those who have had long experience
in the service of the Lord and the com-
panionship of His most faithful and en-
lightened servants. To listen to accounts
of scenes and circumstances which oc-
curred in the life of the Prophet, from the
lips of one who participated in them,
makes a person feel better acquainted with
Joseph himself, than reading his written
history can do. However detailed the writ-
ten account may be, queries will often arise
in the mind of the careful reader, which
the finished book cannot answer, but the
colloquial companion may.
	With no less competent a listener than
Sister Helen Mar Whitney to furnish in-
telligent and important questions coupled
with items from her own store of information,
although but a short visit was made to our
venerable friend and her genial daughter,
yet,
	Bright were the blossoms shaken,
	For our gleaning in that fair bower;
	And ever will sweet thoughts’ waken,
	With memories of that hour.

	Birthday remembrances were brought,
or sent to Sister Mercy, strictly in keeping
with the beautiful month in which she
was born; being principally, fair floral of-
ferings, sweet emblems of the love and fel-
lowship of sincere friends.
	Among the pleasant and instructive
things we heard from Sister Mercy’s lips,
was a simple narration of a circumstance in
her own private experience, of late date.
	For some years past, Sister Thompson
has been unable to walk about and render
assistance in the Relief Society, and other
positions, in which she formerly worked
faithfully and efficiently. This has at
times, been a severe trial to her, and only
a short time ago, she was feeling sorrowful
over it, when she remembered that, al-
though it was late in the day, she had
neglected to read her “Daily Text,” which
is usually read in the morning. Taking
the little text book which she always keeps

[Column 2]
handy by her, and which contains a text
for every day in the year, she was ex- 
ceedingly pleased, and her faith in God's
care over her was refreshed when she
found the text for that day was singularly
appropriate to her own needs. She read,
“For if there be first a willing mind, it is
accepted according to that a man hath, and
not according to that he hath not,” 2nd Cor.
VIII.—12.
	“To thee it speaks, who worn with pain,
	Still long’st to use the fettered limb,
	And do thy Master’s work again;
	’Tis well—the heart is all to Him,
	Not what was done in moments flown,
	But what the sufferer longed to do,
	in many an hour depress'd, alone,
	When spirits failed, and means were few,”

	These lines may meet the eyes and
strengthen the hearts of others, whose con-
ditions are similar to those of Sister Thomp-
son; with this hope are they here repro-
duced.
	A pleasing repast was spread, and with
suitable chat, partaken of by the hostess
and her friends.
	With heart-felt and mutual blessings,
the little company dispersed early in the
evening, every one wishing for Sister
Mercy, many, many happy returns of the
day.
							LULA.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

	It was a very pleasant gathering that
met at the residence of Sister Julia C.
Howe, on the 17th day of June, 1893.
That date being her seventieth birthday.
	About twenty five of her many friends
assembled to do honor to her on the oc-
casion. This party was a complete sur-
prise to Sister Howe. While she was at-
tending the semi-monthly meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, the
sisters gathered at her home, and upon her
return she found them in possession and
herself their honored guest. She was greet-
ed with congratulations and good wishes
from every one present. While notes of
regret for absence, and congratulations were
received from several dear friends who were
unable to be present.
	The company was made up of old and
young. There were present those whom
Sister Howe had labored with for many
years in the Relief Society, others there
were who had been associated with and in-
structed by her in the Y. L. M. I. A. and
still others who had graduated under her
watch care from the Primary Association,
and were now useful workers in the Y. L.
M. I. A., and last but not least were dear
friends, whom the Gospel had bound to her
and to each other with a bond of friendship
so lasting as to extend into eternity.
	After the first effects of the surprise had
subsided a little, the gathering resolved it-
self into a meeting,Sister Lydia D. Alder be-
ing unanimously chosen chairman. Re
marks were made by the sisters, expressive
of love and good wishes for Sister Howe
and appreciation of her labors.
	Mothers spoke with gratitude of the
great good Sister Howe had done and was
doing for their children. Young ladies re-
ferred to the benefit she had been to them
as members of the Primary and Y. L. M.
I. A. Friends testified of the peace and 
comfort she had brought to them in hours
of affliction, sickness and sorrow. Her
untiring and faithful labors in the several
associations of the Seventeenth Ward were
referred to with praise.


Each one felt that the friendship of Sis-
ter Howe was a blessing to be highly ap-
preciated. All felt to congratulate her up-
on her well spent life and youthful appear-
ance, and desired that she might have
many more happy years and continue her
good works and witness their results.
	Sister Howe in a few brief remarks ex-
pressed gratitude for this loving effort on
the part of her friends, thanked them for
their words of love and encouragement, felt
to appreciate the honor bestowed upon her
by those present but felt unworthy of re-
ceiving so much. It did her heart good to
hear her sisters say that she had benefitted
them. Had endeavored to do good, but
many times thought that the endeavor had
failed to result in benefit to any one.
	During their remarks the sisters bore
beautiful testimonies to the truth of the
Gospel, and the peace and unity enjoyed
through the influence of the Spirit of God.
This spirit pervaded the gathering and
each one felt that it was good to be present.
	A pleasant feature of the meeting was
the reading of a poem, written for the oc-
casion by Sister Lydia D. Alder, and read
by her.
	At the close of the meeting delicious re-
freshments were served by the committee
of arrangements, of which all partook with
enjoyment. The remainder of the evening
was spent in social conversation. All went
away feeling that they had enjoyed a feast
temporally and spiritually, and that in
striving to bless and comfort a dearly loved
sister, they had themselves received a
blessing.
	Much credit is due to Sister Howe's
counselors in the Primary Association,
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie and Zina Hyde,
also to Sister Lydia D. Alder and Elizabeth
Stevenson who were the promoters and
took great pleasure in working for the
success of the gathering.
	We would also add that this same date was
the birthday of Sister M. E. Wilcox, who
was present and received many congratu-
lations and good wishes.
					E.D

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE AND ESTEEM TO MY DEAR 
FRIEND JULIA C. HOWE ON HER SEVENTIETH
BIRTHDAY JUNE I7TH, 1893

Full seventy years ago they say,
You first beheld the light of day;
	On far off England’s shore;
How many changes since that time
Have come to that dear heart of thine;
	Thy love grown more and more.

You’ve seen your friends pass one by one 
“Beyond the gates,” their life work done.
	Where they look back for you;
They watch your daily walk in life 
Their thoughts with blessing you are rife,
	And fall like heavenly dew.

In loving you I have been blest
Your counsels in my heart will rest,
	’Till time shall be no more,
You’ve given to me your love and tears
Through many, many changing years— 
 	God love you ever more.

To Heaven’s voice you have been true—
The youth of Zion pray for you
	And love you for your sake,
You’ve taught them long and faithfully
To ever true aud steadfast be—
	And never God forsake.

May Heaven’s choicest blessings flow,
Through all your journey here below 
	Unto your faithful heart;
And strains Celestial welcome you, 
When Heaven’s gates you wander through 
	To never more depart.


Dear friend accept this tribute true
My loving heart sends out to you,
	On this your natal day;
And may we meet on that bright shore
Where tears shall course no, never more
	And friends are true alway.
						L. D. ALDER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL DAY.

HANNAH T. KING.

	THE 1st,of July Saturday was observed by
a few intimate friends in accordance with
arrangements made two years ago, to set
apart a day to the memory of this gifted
woman. At the hour named in the invi-
tation several ladies assembled at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee a sis-
ter poet and country woman of Mrs. King’s,
the afternoon and early evening were devot-
ed to reminescences of the life, writings and
friendships of Mrs. King. One of the 
dear ones who had been present on the
former occasions, was sadly missed, and 
some tears were visible when the fact was 
alluded to, but we all know and realize 
that Sister Howard has only passed to a 
higher position and therefore we rejoice in
the midst of our mourning that she has
reached the spirit world where many
of our loved ones are waiting.
	Mrs. Woodmansee’s rooms were prettily
decorated with flowers and vines, and the
day was a charming one.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne, Helen
M. Whitney, Emmeline B. Wells, Fewson
Smith, Maggie Alford, Louisa Spencer,
Elizabeth Mc Farlane, Kate Brockbank,
Maggie Young, Julia C. Howe,Lula Greene
Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee (the
efficent hostess) and the young ladies of
the house, three daughters, Gladys, Pearl,
Myrtle and niece Edith Ivins of St. G[-]orge;
the dining-room was cool and pleasant, the
trailing vines, at the east window made a
graceful background for the picture, when
the guests were seated. At each place 
was a double card addressed to the person
occupying the seat, and on one side an ap-
propriate quotation from the Book of
Psalms, (which Mrs. King loved so much)
and on the other the stanza versified by
Mrs. Woodmansee, so as to make the
souvenir in remembrance of both Mrs.
King and Mrs. Woodmansee. After the 
repast, which it is safe to say everyone en-
joyed, each one present paid a fitting tribute
to Mrs. King as a memorial of friendship
either by repeating one of her own verses
or a few words impromptu. A sonnet by
Mrs. King was read by Mrs. Wells.

I love thee st[-]l[-]! these words contain,
A language that the angels do rehearse,
Yes, yes ’tis written in the universe—
The hills and mountains do its truth proclaim,
The running brooks and all the mountain streams
The glorious sun with his effulgent beams;
The ambrosial air, the flowers sweet perfume;
The song of birds, the stars that do illume;
And ah! the silver moon, the queen of night,
On which the lover’s mind doth so delight—
All these proclaim with never failing thrill
To the responsive soul, I love thee still.

	After repairing to the parlor again Mrs.
Wells read each of the souvenirs for the
benefit of all,and ice cream and sweetmeats
were served, when all joined in singing
“O, my Father thou that dwellest,” and a 
benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young. During the afternoon many 
beloved ones who have passed away were 
remembered and their virtues alluded to

[Column 2]
and the sweet friendship recognized, among
these departed veterans were Mother
Whitney, Vilate Kimball, Eliza R. Snow,
Mary Ann Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Phebe Woodruff, Marinda Hyde, Sarepta
Heywood and Elizabeth Howard;
							E. B. W.


The lines below were also brought to the 
party as a memento and appear in print for 
the first time.

[Addressed to Sister Brockbank suggested by 
her silence.] 
Speak! speak, love I implore thee!

Yes! speak dear girl! and break the spell
	That seals those lips of thine! 
For truly, I do know full well
	There’s wealth within the mine!

That mental mine of hidden wealth 
	Unknown, and unexplor’d—
E’en by yourself—as if by stealth 
	You glance upon the hoard! 

I would not flatter—God forbid!
	Your faithful friend—am I
And you'll despise me if I did--
	I read that in your eye!—

That eye!—yes, yes 'tis there I read 
	There dwells a soul within
Pure—lofty—of heroic creed 
And undefil’d by sin;

Thy spirit’s noble—nothing low
	Dwells in thy heart or brain—
Oh! may the Lord preserve thee so 
	That you, these gifts retain.

They are more precious than the gold,
	Of Ophir—so renown’d!
And may they e’er thy form enfold 
	And thy brow with them be crown'd 

Then trust me, you will walk the earth 
	A Priestess, and a Queen! 
And all will read your noble birth
	By your regal step and mein;

For virtue, is a woman’s crown,
	Her laurel’d diadem!
And wearing that,—is full renown 
	With Angels—God—and men.

You are but starting in the way, 
	Of life's untrodden road,
Oh! may your strength be as your day 
	Of whatever weight the load.

I love you! yes I do admire 
	The germ I see in you!
Oh! may your soul by God’s own power,
	Be lighted up anew!

Yes daily lighted up, that you 
	May see where darkness reigns,
And by its light your lamp renew,
	And heal your woes and pains;

Then will your heart and mind be free 
	With Heaven’s peculiar food,
And by God's spirit you'llbe led 
	To an eternal good.

And then where’er we hear your voice
	In low angelic tone 
Your friends will listen and rejoice 
	And feel love makes us one!
			HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
August 18th, 1864.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
thirteenth ward asembly rooms June 20th,
1893. Vice-President E. Mc Farlane in
the chair. Opened by singing “Help the


working women.” Prayer offered by
Frances Smith. Singing "O come, come
away.” Roll called, minutes of previous
meeting omitted. Phebe C. Young was
called upon, she spoke of the portentious
times, also of the many Fairs there had
been even so far back as the days of the
Egyptians and the pryamids, also in
Jerusalem—London and our own great
Fair of today. Maggie Bassett then sang a
song, entitled ‘‘The Bridge of Sighs.”
Doctor M. P. Hughes Cannon felt to en-
courage the cause of suffrage, knew that
women were a great bulwark to the nation
and that all knowledge, would benefit wo-
mankind. Vice President A. W. Eardley
spoke of her visit to the World’s Fair and
of the Woman’s Congress which was held
there.
	M. L. Morris and L  G. Richards each
made a few encouraging remarks. Meet-
ing stood adjourned until the third Tues-
day in July.
			MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


A FAITHFUL SISTER.

Dear Editor:—
	THINKING a few lines from this out of
the way place might be of interest to your
many readers, we take pleasure in mention-
ing Sister Polly Meecham our beloved
president who is very dear to us all, she
was struck with paralysis on the 11th of
June which caused her to be unconscious
for some time and to lose the use of her
left side, but by the faith and untiring
efforts of children and friends, she has so
far recovered that she can walk and is able
to sit up most of the day. We have held
our meetings at her house ever since her
inability to attend meeting. Our Relief
Society is in good condition. Our meet-
ings have been presided over by her
Counselors since her affliction. Sister
Meecham is a good woman and has been
faithful in the discharge of her duty, and
we all sympathize with her. We had a
special meeting at her residence June 20th,
Sister Wilmerth East from Arizona, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of St. Joseph
Stake, addressed us in her kind and moth-
erly way, gave us many good instructions.
Several of our other sisters made excellent
remarks. We had a time of rejoicing that
will long be remembered with pleasure.
			L. M. BOREN, Sec.


WHO MOTHER GOOSE WAS.
Mother Goose’s maiden name was
Eliz’th Foster,she was born in Charlestown
Massachusetts,in the year 1635 and married
Isaac Goose of Boston she was his
second mate and began her maternal life as
stepmother to ten children, she added six
more to that number, think of it! Sixteen
goslings to one goose, is it any wonder that
she pours out her feelings in the following
lines,
“There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
She had so many children she didn’t know what
to do?’’
Yet her family cares sat lightly upon her,
and she survived father Goose many years.
Still she staid by her mate and led and fed
her flock until they were able to swim by
themselves. One of her daughters married
Thomas Fleet and she sang from morning
’till night, “Up stairs and down stairs and
in my ladies’ chamber etc.’’


So Thomas Fleet listened to her songs as
she sat in her arm chair, and printed and
sold them. Not Homer or Shakespere is
so sure of an immortal fame as mother
Goose. The love for her melodies are
everywhere held for their freedom from
every thing corrupt or to mislead the in-
fantile mind. But they are full of
practical wisdom, her name is one of the
brightest jewels which adorns the old South.
Let us hope a statue will  be erected  to the
memorable old lady’s memory.
						M.  A.  T.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.				191


[Column 1]
WAR OF THE REVOLUTION.

	THE Revolutionary War and the causes 
that led up to it.
	In handling this subject I shall be com-
pelled to quote largely from Ridpath whose
history I have been studying and whose
language explains perfectly what I wish to
tell. The war of American Independence
was an event of vast moment, affecting the
destiny of all nations. The question de-
cided by the conflict was this, whether the
English colonies in America becoming
sovereign should govern themselves or be
ruled as dependencies of a European Mon-
archy. The result has been the grandest
and most promising example of a Republi-
can government in the history of the
world. It is of the first importance to
understand the causes of the war. The
most general cause of the American Revo-
lution was the right of arbitrary govern-
ment claimed by Great Britian and denied
by the colonies. The question began to be
openly discussed about the time of the
treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748. But there
were also many subordinate causes. First
of these was the influence of France which
was constantly exerted so as to excite a
spirit of resistance in the colonies. It was
the theory of France that by giving up
Canada on the North the English colonies
would become so strong as to renounce
their allegiance to the Crown. England
feared such a result. More than once it
was proposed in Parliament to recede Can-
ada to France in order to check the growth
of the American states. Another cause
leading to the Revolution was found in the
natural disposition and inherited character
of the colonies. They were for the most
part Republicans in politics and dissenters
in religion. The people of England were
monarchists and High-Churchmen. The
colonists had never seen a king; their deal-
ings with the royal officers had been such
as to engender a dislike for monarchial in-
stitutions. The growth of public opinion
in the colonies tended to independence.
The more advanced thinkers came to be-
lieve that a complete separation from Eng-
land was not only possible but desirable.
	As early as 1755 John Adams then a
young school teacher in Connecticut wrote
in his diary “In another century all Europe
will not be able to subdue us.” Such
opinions were at first expressed in private,
then by hints in pamphlets and newspapers,
and at last publicly and everywhere.
Another cause of the conflict with the
mother country was found in the personal
character of the king. George third, who
ascended the English throne in 1760 was a
stubborn, stupid, thick-headed man in
whose mind the notion of human rights
was entirely wanting. His reign of sixty
years was as odious as it was long. His
ministers were for the most part men as

[Column 2]
incompetent and illiberal as himself. With
such a king and such a ministry it was not
likely that the descendants of the Pilgrims
would get on smoothly. The more im-
mediate cause of the Revolution was the
passage by Parliament of a number of acts
destructive of colonial liberty. The subject
of this unjust legislation which extended
over a period of twelve years just preced-
ing the war, was the question of taxation.
The American colonies claimed the full
right of the Englishman. With good rea-
son it was urged that the general assemblies
of colonies, held the same relation to the
American people as did the House of
Commons to the people of England. The
English ministers replied that Parliament
and not the colonial assemblies was the
proper body to vote taxes in any and all
parts of the British empire. It is now
proper to notice the several acts which the
colonies complained of and resisted. The
first of these was the Importation Act
passed in 1733 by which exorbitant duties
were laid on all sugar, molasses, and rum
imported into the colonies. In 1750 it was
further enacted that iron works should not
be erected in America. The manufacture
of steel was especially forbidden and the
felling of pines outside of inclosures was
interdicted. All of these laws were
deemed as unjust and tyrannical. In 1761
a strenuous effort was made to enforce the
Importation Act and already there were
hints of resistance by force of arms. In
1763 at a great town meeting Samuel
Adams made a powerful argument showing
conclusively, that under the British con-
stitution taxation and representation were
inseparable. The year 1764 witnessed the
most formal declaration of the purpose of
Parliament to tax the colonies. Mr.Grenville
was now prime minister, on the tenth of
March a resolution was adopted by the
House of Commons declaring that it would
be proper to charge certain stamp duties on
the American colonies. The news having
been carried to America universal excite-
ment and indignation prevailed. Political
meetings became the order of the day
formal remonstrances were addressed to
the king and the two houses of Parliament,
and agents were appointed and sent to
London in the hope of preventing the
passage of the law. A new turn was now
given to the controversy. Through the
French and Indian War just concluded
Great Britian had incurred a heavy debt
which the ministers said ought to be borne
by the colonies
	The Americans replied that England
ought to defend her colonies, that in the
prosecution of the war the colonies had
aided Great Britian as much as Great
Britian had aided them, yet it was not the
payment of money which they dreaded but
the surrender of their liberties. In March
1765 Parliament no longer guided by the
counsels of Pitt passed the celebrated
Stamp Act. “The sun of American liberty
has set, wrote Benjamin Franklin to a
friend at home. The provisions of the
Stamp Act were briefly these. Every note,
land-deed, mortgage, lease, license, and
legal document of whatever sort required in
the colonies, should after the first day of the
following November be executed on paper
bearing an English stamp. This stamped
paper was to be furnished by the British
Government, and for each sheet the colonists
were required to pay a sum varying accord-
ing to the nature of the document from

[Column 3]
three pence to six pound sterling. Every
colonial pamphlet, almanac, and newspaper
was required to be printed on paper of the
same sort. The value of the stamps in
this case ranging from a half penny to  a
fourpence. Every advertisement was taxed
two shillings. No contract should be of
any binding force, unless written on paper
bearing the royal stamp. The news of the
hateful act, swept over America like a
thunder cloud. The people were at first
grief stricken, then indignant; then wrath-
ful. The muffled bells of Philadelphia and
Boston rang a funeral peal and the people
said it was the death knell of liberty. The
general assemblies were slow to move, as
there were many loyalists among the mem-
bers and the governors held their offices by
appointment of the king, but the younger
representatives hot-headed as well as patri-
otic did not hesitate to express their senti-
ments. In the Virginia House of Burgesses 
there was a memorable scene. Patrick
Henry a young member from Louisa coun-
ty waited for older men to lead in the
opposition to Parliament, but they failing to
do so, he in his passionate way, snatched a
blank leaf out of an old law book and
hastily drew up a series of fiery resolutions,
declaring that the Virginians were English-
men with English rights; and had the same
rights to vote their own taxes as had the
English. A violent debate ensued in
which the Patriots had the best of the
argument. It was a moment of intense
interest. Two future presidents were in
the audience, Washington and Thomas
Jefferson. The eloquent and indignant
orator said "Tarquin and Caesar had each
his Brutus, Charles First had his Cromwell
—Treason; Treason! shouted the speaker
which was echoed by the terrified loyalists
springing to their feet and George third
may profit by their example continued,
Henry adding as he took his seat. If that
be treason make the most of it. The reso-
lutions were put to the house and carried
and similar resolutions were adopted by the
assemblies of New York and Massachusetts,
in the latter state before the action of
Virginia was known. At Boston, James
Otis successfully agitated the question of an
American Congress nine of the colonies
appointed delegates, and on the seventh of
October the first colonial congress assembled
at New York. A Declaration of Rights
was adopted setting forth in unmistakable
terms that the American colonists could not,
and would not be taxed but by their own
representatives. At the same time a manly
petition professing loyalty and praying for
a more just and humane policy toward his
American subjects was directed to the king.
During the summer great quantities of the
stamped paper had been sent to America
which was destroyed or sent back to Eng-
land. In Connecticut the stamp officer was
threatened with hanging. The first of
November came and was kept as a day of
mourning. Stores were closed, flags hung
at half mast, bells were tolled etc., legal
business was entirely suspended, court
houses were closed, society was at a stand-
still, not even a marriage license could be
legally issued. By and by the offices were
opened and business went on as before but
was not transacted with stamped paper.
	(To be Continued.)


Verily, hypocrits sink into a lower abyss
than any other sinner.—Mohammed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


R. S. REPORT.

P. A. CACHE STAKE.

Editor Woman’s Exponent.
	Thinking a few items in regard to our 
Primary work in this county might be ap-
preciated by your many readers, I will in-
form you as accurately as possible in regard
to the condition in this Stake. We have
just finished holding our annual District
Conferences. The first was held in Logan
embracing nine wards, over four hundred
children were in attendance. Next Con-
ference was held in Hyrum with good atten-
dance, in fact there was a good attendance
at all the conferences. We held one also
in Paradise, in Wellsville, in Mendon, in
Smithfield, in Richmond and Newton,
Sister Lillie T. Freeze of the Territorial
board, and Sister Aurelia Rogers of Farm-
ington, President of the Primaries were
with us, and attended all our meetings.
The children were well prepared at each
conference and acquitted themselves very
creditably. The attendance of boys was
not as large as it would have been, had it
not been a busy season for them but in the
eight conferences we met five hundred, and
one thousand and fifty-eight girls, making
a total of eighteen hundred and eight child-
ren. We have thirty associations in Cache
Stake, with an enrollment of about two
thousand three hundred and seventy-one.
I have not the exact number but this is
as near as I can get at present. The usual
attendance is good in all the wards. We
hold district conferences every year, and
visit the annual meeting each ward as far
as possible. We also have Fairs held every
year, and the work of children both boys
and girls is very creditable.
	Much credit is due the officers of the dif-
ferent associations. We have a band of
able energetic women who are using their
time and talent freely, for the improve-
ment of the children of Zion, and these
children are showing great improvement
in their manner, and their morals are not
neglected. Our exercises are about the
same as in other Stakes but we are always
on the alert for any good thing which will
help along the good work. Our President
Sister Jane E. Molen is an indefatigable
worker, and under her influence things are
sure to prosper. Siseer Freeze always has
good things to say to us, and of us, and the
children in this Stake expect her at their
yearly conference, as she has endeared her-
self to them all. We hope next year to
have Sister Felt visit us as she has never
been able to favor us so far with a visit.
One of the pleasant features of our associ-
ations is the number of young girls and
boys who have almost grown up in the as-
sociation, who still continue in them, and
aid the officers in their work, by so doing
they are a power among the small ones, and
a help almost beyond comprehension and
the officers appreciate them. Hoping the
associations in Zion may continue in
growth and good works. I remain a Pri-
mary worker,
                         MATTIE BLAIR HANSON,
Logan, Utah.


PRIMARY AT WALLSBURG.

	OUR association is in a flourishing con-
dition, our dear President Sister Sarah
Glenn is alive to her duty in training the
children in the principles of the Gospel.


We had a nice program June 1st, in honor
of the birthday of our late esteemed Presi-
dent Brigham Young, well rendered; our
program consisted of a lecture from the
Book of Mormon, historical sketch of the
organization and benefits of the Primary
Association, recitations, songs, dialogues,
questions and answers.
	A brief history of President Brigham
Young with poetry composed for the oc-
casion. We had a good time the parents
were astonished at what their children had
learned in the Primary.
				IDA BOREN, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	If industry is no more than a habit, it is
at least an excellent one.

	MRS. LAURA ORMISTON CHANT ad-
dressed an enthusiastic audience at Parsons,
Kan., on June 24, and preached twice on
the following Sunday.

	THE statue of Queen Victoria, the work
of Princess Beatrice, the youngest daughter
of the Queen, has been highly commended
for its artistic merit. It was unveiled by
the Queen in person, June 28, in Kensing-
ton Gardens.

	MRS. HELEN M. GOUGAR  has been
elected a member of the Board of Trustees
of Hillsdale College, Michigan, of which
institution she is a graduate. She has al-
so been made President of the Board of
Women Commissioners who are to raise
$50,000 with which to endow two chairs to
be filled by women who are to sit with the
faculty clothed with powers equal to the
male professors.

	IT is stated that Mrs. Palmer has allowed
her salary to accumulate until it is about
$7,000 and the bill for this she will now
present on request of the treasury depart-
ment so that it may be paid in the Isabella
quarter dollar coins. The issue of these is
only $10,000 and Mrs. Palmer takes this
course on behalf of the Board of Lady
Managers so as to keep the coins from be-
coming speculative property on the part of
outsiders.

	AT the annual meeting of the Hampden
County W. C. T. U. at Chicopee, recently,
a resolution against the Sunday opening of
the Columbian Fair was adopted. Mrs.
Beesie Blodgett entered a vigorous pro-
test. She thought she could do more for
Christ by going to the World’s Fair on
Sunday and taking 500 sinners with her,
than she could by staying away and keeping
the sinning 500 away. When the vote was
taken, Mrs. Blodgett was the only one who
opposed the resolution.

	THE first general meeting of women
lawyers ever held will occur in Chicago,
Aug. 3, 4 and 5 next, in the Isabella club-
house, under the auspices of the law de-
partment of the Queen Isabella Association.
There will be papers, discussions and con-
ference meeting, the object being to pro-
mote acquaintance among those interested
in the practical work of the profession.
All women in the United States, and else-
where, who have been admitted to the bar
of a court of record, or graduated from a
law school, are especially invited to be
present. Miss Ellen A. Martin, of No.
84 LaSalle Street, Chicago, is chairman of
the committee on arrangements.—Ex.


HE that would make real progress in
knowledge must dedicate his age as well as
youth, the latter growth as well as the
first fruits, at the altar of truth.—Berkeley.


OBITUARIES.
DIED at Oakley Cassia Co. Idaho, April 17th,
of consumption; Louisa Augusta Smith, eldest
child of John L. Smith and Julia Haight Smith,
born August 10, 1880, at Lublett Creek Idaho.
Aged twelve years four months and seven days.
Sister Louisa was a very examplary child, ever
thoughtful and kind at home, a member of Sab-
bath School and Primary Association, she loved
to read and took much pleasure reading the
Juvenile Instructor, which she enjoyed even dur-
ing her last moments.
All join her parents in mourning the loss of
the dear child. May her rest and sleep be sweet.
Editor Exponent:
IT is with feelings of sadness we have been
called to part with one of our sisters. Sister
Mary Butters departed this life April 17th, 1893,
aged seventy-three years,five months and fourteen
days She was born at Elling Green, Derehma,
Norfolk, England. Emigrated to Utah with her
family in 1869; she was a faithful sister and in
losing her we have lost one of the most energetic
of our teachers. She was always willing and
ready to assist any one both in sickness and
health when called on, when for her own health's
sake it would have been wise to have refused.
She left Morgan to visit her daughter, Mrs.
Culmer S. L. City and attend the dedication of
the Temple, but was taken sick and never had
that privilege. She leaves several children and
grand children to mourn her loss, her husband
having preceded her several years.
At the resurrection morning,
We shall all appear as one;
Oh! what robes of bright adorning
Will the righteous then put on.
S. A. RAWLE Cor. Sec.
Morgan City, May 1, 1893.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Esther Lenora Tyler wife of
Robert M. Tyler, who died February 15th, 1893,
in Alpine, Apache Co. Arizona. She was the
daughter of Sylvester H.and Roseltha M. Pearce.
She was born in Provo, Utah, September 1st 1868.
She was the mother of five children four of whom
survive her. The last an infant daughter is
sleeping by her side.
Sister Tyler was a true wife and mother and a
faithful Latterday Saint and was a member of the
Relief Society during her residence here.
Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our beloved sister, therefore
be it,
Resolved, that in her death we the members of
the Relief Society recognize the loss of a faithful
co-laborer. 
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved family.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the sorrowing family, a copy
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed upon the record of the Relief Society.
JANE NOBLE, President. 
VIOLA M. HATCH, Sec.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House[-]

R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.		9

