 VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1894.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS:

	Woman Suffrage Column—Shall Utah Become
A State Without Woman Suffrage—L. L. Dalton.
A Woman’s Assembly. To The Pioneers—Mary
Ellen Kimball. Woman’s National Press Ex-
cursion. Why Women Want The Municipal Bal-
lot—F. M. A. U. W. P. C.—Gladys Woodman-
see. R. S. Reports. Ladies’ Semi-monthly
Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Miscellaneous.
Notes And News. In Memoriam. Obituaries.
Funeral Reforms.

	EDITORIAL.—The Present Conditions.
Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—Down By The River—S. E.
Carmichael. When The Summer Comes Again
—L. M. Hewlings. Ten Years Old—Aunt Alta.


DOWN BY THE RIVER.

Down by the River:
The dark flowing river,
	That flows to Eternity’s Sea:
Kneel to the Giver
To God, the Good Giver 
	And pray for my vessel and me.
Cold is it? Dark it is
Hushed as my heart it is.
	Dark flowing river sublime!
Many ships sail on it
Many fleets fail on it;
	Strange, crooked river-of time!
Down by the Riverside
Wreck-covered Riverside!
	Pray for my vessel and me
Pray for us: Pray for us
Solemnly say for us: 
	“God guide ye safe to the sea—”
Swift is the Rivertide
Rough is the Riverside
	Pray for my vessel and me—
S. E. CARMICHAEL.


WHEN THE SUMMER COMES AGAIN.

There will be a glad rejoicing
When the Summer comes again,
When the rivers break their fetters,
And the rills throw off their chains!
When winter has ceased its raging,
Scatt'ring hoar frost, ice and snow,
All its forces northward streaming,
At the Spring's command to go!
Then we'll take some lovely rambles,
When the Summer comes again;
Over soft green grassy meadows,
Cherished rocks, in grove and glen.
Ah, wont all nature then rejoice,
When the Summer comes again!

All living things as in one voice,
Will unite in glad acclaim!
Thro' the wood and o'er the hill side,
Then in freedom we will roam,
Wander by the mountain's brookside,
By the gray old moss grown stones,
These flocks of merry song-birds,
Will make glad the live-long day,
Nature's free charming concerts,
With out dress parade, or pay.
Then vestments of bright adorning,
Will be worn through earth's domain,
And in justice beauty blooming,
When the Summer comes again!


But there'll be something missing;
When the summer comes again,
Some golden links most precious,
Have been torn from out life's chain;
Tho' summer comes with beauty,
Wealth, and plenty in her train,
Her power can ne'er restore,
These lost links from out life's chain,
She will bring buds and flowers,
But we'll listen all in vain,
For tones from voices golden,
When the Summer comes again.
"Arnold Dell."	L. M. HEWLINGS.
Tenafly N. J.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

SHALL UTAH BECOME A STATE WITHOUT.
WOMAN SUFFRAGE?

	To vote or not to vote! That is the
the Question. Shall we drift with the
sluggish tide of Custom, and in our Or-
ganic Act rivet the fetters of perpetual
minority upon the mothers of so hardy a
race of men as Utah can boast?
	Shall we mar our onward progress as a
Commonwealth and clog the footsteps of
half our citizens by locking in the faces of
our daughters the doors of honest public
responsibility, and then, as from time im-
memorial, endeavor to shoulder upon them
the blame for the misdeeds of our sons?
Shall we swear at the nuptial altar to love
and cherish, to endow with all our worldly
goods the woman who forsakes father and
mother for her love's sake, and then pro-
ceed to take by force of law her time, her
strength, her conscience, her money, in
fact, her whole being, body and soul, into
our individual service, leaving her not
even her identity to call her own?
	Shall we boast of our free condition if
our mothers are in bondage?
	Shall our sons be untainted with servi-
tude and degradation if their mothers be
not free, any better than they could be all
white if we gave them African mothers?
Could our children be as great economists,
as far-sighted statesmen, as wise jurists,
from such sources as if sprung from
Cornelia or Portia?
	Who dares to say women are not
capable of self-government, should never
dare place a child of his own in the care
of a woman, because it is a self-evident
truth that he or she who cannot control
self is not fit to have the control of another;
particularly an unformed, undeveloped
soul.
	Shall women themselves, under the veil
of their traditional modesty, stand silently
by in a crisis like the present, and let this
great wrong be done to them and their
children, to their country and civilization?
	Mark this, sister women! To do so
would make us accessories before the fact
to nothing less than a great crime. You who
walked side by side with your pioneer
husbands out of civilization into desola-
tion, you who bore more than an even
share of hardship and danger in subdueing
this stubborn, unfriendly clime, you who

[Column 2]
toiled, hoped, prayed but wept not, can
never be persuaded, that you and your
daughters are not equally concerned in all
that pertains to this hard-won home, equal
heirs to the grand estate.
	All men know it is not in us to boast;
but we do not deny that our record of the
past gives us room to boast of every
requisite to honest, useful citizenship; and
we look with confidence to our husbands
and fathers, to see that our claims be not
ignored, and our rights not abridged, when
the crown of Statehood shall rest upon the
brow of our beloved Utah.
	L. L. DALTON.


A WOMAN’S ASSEMBLY.

[Concluded.]
ADDRESS BY M. HUGHES CANNON M. D.

	Madame Chairman, Gentlemen and
Ladies.
	An old powerful and influential oppo-
nent to Woman's Suffrage relates the fol-
lowing little story with the attempt to
discourage women favorable to the cause of
suffrage—
	"Once on a time in Ormudz there was
a Peri with tiny feet and glittering wings,
who was passionately fond of diamonds,
her crown, drapery and shoes were solid
with the purest gems. She herself ap-
peared at a little distance, like a wee dot of
a flying diamond. Yet there was one
precious jewel which she discovered one
day by the river, and which she coveted
more than all she had before collected. It
was very heavy and bright as the sun; too
heavy for her atomic head and far too bril-
liant to be becoming to her. The name of
the rare jewel was Somethingmore. Her
friends urged her to avoid the display, and
warned her against her vain desire to be-
come conspicuous. But she was not con-
tent. She thought that she only needed
this precious Somethingmore in her crown
to make her supremely happy. So she
commanded the gem to be set in her crown,
and started in a blaze of light to visit her
humbler neighbors. But alas! the new
jewel was so bright, that its fiery rays
melted her diamond robes, blistered her
feet and scorched her wings—soon her
crown itself was dissolved by the heat, and
she herself fell dead from suffocation.
When her sisters found her, Something-
more had scorched the grass about her;
and to this day the people of Ormudz
show the barren, ashy hillside, burned and
crisped so long ago by the fatal Something-
more."
	The moral to be drawn from the little
story of the noted gentleman is that wo-
men now have all the legal rights they re-
quire—deprived only of the ballot, which
is the fatal Somethingmore and might result as
disastrously to the women possessing it, as
did the diamond to the Peri.
	This story might do to tell the women of
the east or west who have never had the


[Column 1]
franchise, but not for the women of Utah,
who exercised this privilege for seventeen
years, without the scorching of a single
wing.
	“To make men and women happier or
purer, or more intellectual is the aim of
every laudable enterprise, political or
social, and without such a purpose, or with-
out the adaptation of means to the
that end, every accomplishment of
undertaking should fail.
	There must be a combination of motive and
work, a blending of intellect and emotion,
a strong desire with a firm hand, a right-
eous purpose with competent skill, to ac-
complish any permanent good or to carry to
success any needed reform.”
	That reform and purification in the exer-
cise of the franchise, is needed at the
present day is undoubted. Women with
the right to vote would be a strong phalanx
in assisting to bring about this needed re-
form. Home and kindred are too dear for
them to place in office men whose honor
integrity, and efficiency to control are
doubted. “There are yet many realms of
silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be
perfected, which require the hands and
minds of women—she must begin as other
noble women and nearly all great men have
begun, and give herself soul and body to
the acquisition of wisdom and skill, and
her very opposition and difficulties will be
gain. There is natural ability enough and
the persevering will only is needed.” Wo-
man must throw off her bondage to fashion
her submission to folly, says a well known
writer. She must defeat the enticements of
pleasure, the flatteries and censures of
others; all prejudices all notions of
propriety bend to genius and culture. A
well disciplined mind, and a generous heart
will look the Lion opinion in the Eye, and
move on, he will quail before her and will
assail her no more. Let a woman endowed
with natural genius, and assisted by years
of persistent culture appear in public, in
classical hygienic and elegant apparel, how
soon will she influence the fashions of those
who recognize her value; her dress, her
books, her manner, her, language, all
would have disciples and earnest followers.”
	The forgoing remarks are addressed to
women who could crystalize into realism,
“Queen of the household” who have suf-
ficient revenue at their command to reign
as veritable Queens over that basic and
most important realm of all government,
the home, who would have time and health
to become the best of all object lesson in-
structors of the plastic minds of that realm
—the children—as well as time for their
knowledge and influence to extend into the
halls where laws are framed for the con-
struction and management of Orphan
Asylums, Children’s Homes and Hospitals—
prison matron work and scores of other
avenues which today sadly need the ad-
mixed psychology of woman.
	Show me a nation where the machinery
of every household is conducted by an intel-
ligent woman, who is its superintendent—
Queen if you please—and not its drudge,—
assisted by the advice and counsel of the
masculine element, and I will show you a
nation that has well nigh reached the
Zenith of its glory; for where the basic
element or foundation of a government is
healthful and sound, there is good pros-
pect of the superstructure nearing perfec-
tion.

[Column 2]
	One of the principal reasons why women
should vote—is that all men and women
are created free and equal. No privileged
class either of sex wealth or descent should
be allowed to arise or exist. All persons
should have the legal right to be the equal
of every other.
	“The difference in the natures of men
and women, is not a difference in value, but
the kind of merit. He has qualities which
she has not; she possesses traits and genius,
he does not, they differ from each other, and
yet in their worth to the world, and to God,
they are equal with each other.” The
genius of each should blend in the basic
element of government the home, as well
as in the plans and machinery of its super-
structure.
	"In these modern times the standards of
value have been readjusted, and whereas
once physical strength and reckless courage
were held in the highest and almost ex-
clusive esteem of mankind—now the gems
of wisdom, culture, purity, beauty, love
and skill have a value which may out-
weigh and purchase that brute force once
so priceless. Once to be born a female was
to become a plaything or a slave; today in
the best most cultivated, and most power-
ful circles woman is the peer of the noblest
man.”
	If women are granted the privilege to
vote, it is not going by any means to sweep
away all existing wrong in the world, but
it will be one more step toward equality
before the law. “There will still be some
drunken, brutal husbands, there will still be
parsimonious and contemptable heads of
families, there will be poverty, aching heads
and hearts; there will be fraud and wrong,
but the skirts of the law will be clean on
this one point and not compelled to bear
the blame.”
	To secure just laws and then execution
will require the exercise of much common
sense and at this point woman’s foresight
and quick judgment would be an aid in the
construction of good government.
	“If women orators desire to speak to the
masses, they must show they are ready to
sacrifice themselves to the cause, sufficiently
to sink every personal ambition or desire
for fame, and study the cause and those in-
fluences, which will assist in its advance-
ment.” And may the day be hastened
when women will know all their rights,
and knowing dare maintain.
	In the enrollment of members in the suf-
frage cause Utah stands second in the
United States. New York State taking the
lead, and while we rank among the first in
numbers, we bring up the rear in the mat-
ter of enthusiasm and it is for the purpose
of arousing more interest and energy in the
cause that this and similar meetings have
been inaugurated;—so in order to secure the
necessary enthusiasm we will

	“Ring the bells, and fire the guns
	And fling our starry banners out,
	Call freedom! ’Till our little ones
	Give back the ringing shout."

	Mrs. Bessie Dean Allison, who came down
from Ogden specially to be present, then
sung, in her usual finished style, “The
Journey is Long,” which was highiy ap-
preciated, and called forth generous ap-
plause.
	The President apologized for the absence
of Mrs. Emily S. Richards on account of
illness.
	Dr. Hasbrouck next briefly addressed the
meeting. He realized the prejudice that

[Column 3]
existed upon the question of woman suf-
frage, and expressed the opinion that the
only way to overcome this prejudice was to
talk upon the subject intelligently whenever
occasion offered. He was heartily in favor
of the object of the meeting, and hoped
when Utah was admitted into the Union
the women would be allowed to exercise
the right of voting.
	Mr. George D. Pyper next sang a
beautiful solo, “Songs of Araby” his
high notes were particularly delightful; and
altogether the music was an excellent
feature.
	MRS. LUCY A. CLARK, president of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association of Davis
County, was the next speaker, and, after a
few introductory remarks, said that, in so
far as woman’s suffrage was concerned,
their sole weapon upon which to convert
the world of mankind was the Declaration
of Independence. To substantiate her as-
sertion she referred to several paragraphs in
that instrument to show that women should
have all the rights and privileges of an
American citizen. She objected to the
word “male” in regard to the qualifications
of voters, as contained in the 14th Article
of the Constitution—and asserted that
that word (“male”) should be stricken out
of the Constitution. She then referred to,
and paid a high compliment upon, the sev-
eral eminent lady leaders in the woman
suffrage cause, among whom were Elizabeth
Cady Stanton &c. Aunt Zina D. Young—
wno stood up in the Congress of the
Representative Woman in Chicago and de-
clared herself a woman suffragist, and, in
her travels east, west, north and south in
Utah, has earned the title of one of the
“mothers in Israel”—and maintained that,
in such an array of talent, no one should
be ashamed even to be a private in the
ranks of the woman Suffragists. The
speaker then called attention to a resolu-
tion passed by the Legislature of Wyoming
in which it was stated that, by the influence
of women holding the franchise, and
exercising voting and official power, for a
quarter of a ceutury, the poor houses had
been depleted, peaceful and orderly
elections had been maintained, and good
government was in the ascendancy through-
out the whole state. The leaders in the
Colorado campaign were also mentioned,
in reference to the woman suffrage
question; and the speaker concluded by
urging all to do their utmost, by trying the
key in the right direction, for the cause in
which they were interested.
	Samuel Richards Esq. was the concluding
speaker. He felt it an honor to be invited
to appear before them on that occasion, and
judging from the large assembly present,
and the intelligence that had been displayed,
he thought the cause of woman suffrage in
Utah was upward and onward. He had
always been in favor of women having the
privilege of the franchise, and of taking
part in the government of local affairs.
Their influence for good was admitted on
every hand, and it was a mystery to him
why people should be afraid of that in-
fluence. He had not appeared publicly to
any extent in regard to this question; but
if ever the opportunity should occur where
his vote would aid the cause, that vote
could be depended upon.
	The President then made a few conclud-
ing remarks, and the meeting adjourned.

	(Reported in shorthand by John Irvine.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TEN YEARS OLD.

	[Lines addressed to my little niece and name
sake Alta Wilbeck Brown who resides at Manti-
Utah.]
		Ten years old my little girl:
		For a moment stop this whirl,
		Till in eye of blue,
		I can prove it true,
		Like April day yourself,
		A sad, then laughing elf;
		Tear-drops come down
		Then joy all around.
		How soon the bud is blown,
		Its folded beauty shown,
		May the blossom grow
		Till ripe fruit it show!
		Then years from to day
		If we on earth shall stay
		When maiden brow I kiss
		My little girl I’ll miss.
		Should you live, and Auntie sleep,
		A place for me in memory keep 
		And know that noble woman-hood,
		I sought for you as chiefest good,
		God in Heaven bless this child,
		When the way is lone and wild.
		Or where still waters glide
		Always near her abide.
AUNT ALTA.
West Coxsackie N. Y. Jan. 31st, 1894.


[Column 1]			
	TO THE PIONEERS.

	I DO feel to congratulate you all and all
the Pioneers who are permitted to meet on
this occasion at the Bee Hive house: and 
regret that I cannot be one of the number.
	I feel that I am also a Pioneer, having
arrived in this valley Sep. 12th 1847.
This is the date our Captain George B.
Wallace gave of the time of our arrival
here. Is not this a pretty quick time for
ox-teams to follow the mule teams which
started from Winter Quarters the 1st, of
April 1847; our company a month later the
1st of May. We arrived at the valley in
one month and nineteen days later than the
first company did.
	(Would like to tell you much more if I
only felt able to write it.)
 I must say, however, that it is indeed
wonderful to reflect upon the past forty six
years of our lives, how often our afflictions
have been sanctified to our good: and many
if not all have been a blessing in disguise
even as that of the Battalion being called to
go to Mexico.
	But we have had joys as well as sorrows.
Was it not indeed a joyful sight to see our
President and company meet us at Pacific
Springs the last of August, when we were
journeying hither. They were on their re-
turn to gather up the rest of the families at
Winter Quarters. They stopped with us that
day, and one more day then each company
went on their opposite way rejoicing.
	Again we rejoiced to see Great Salt Lake
Valley, my heart it seemed jumped in my
mouth and tears in my eyes, saying ‘‘here
is our resting place, thank our Father.”
We saw it in the distance from the top of a
high mountain two days before we reached
the fort. Joy again, when we got into
the Fort built of logs, doors inside and only
a port hole on the outside to watch the
Indians from. Then a joyful meeting with
Sister Ellen S. Kimball and Sister Clara
Young and her mother Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company.
	Only think, we also found quite a
few of the Battalion who had just re-

[Column 2]
turned from Mexico. And did not we have
joyful meetings and interesting times that
winter; and this is not all, the weather so
much finer and much warmer than any
Winter I ever saw in the State of New
York.
	It is with feelings of gratitude that I re-
flect upon the past but I cannot tell it all.
This party has awakened feelings more
than I can express; hoping this may be
acceptable from your aged friend,
	MARY ELLEN KIMBALL. 
March 27th, 1894.

TO ELLEN SAUNDERS KIMBALL.

[COMPOSED JAN. 1st, 1848, IN THIS VALLEY.]

	Oh Ellen! my sister raise thy drooping head,
And welcome the New Year, the old one has fled:
With its joys and its sorrows alike it has flown,
And left us to think they were once our own.
It has fled and gone, yet we treasure the past
As sacred to memory: and long may it last,
Each blessing a prize as sent from above,
With hearts full, of gratitude joy, peace and love.
Yet in sadness thou thinkest of friends left behind
Whose hearts have been faithful, and acts very
	kind,
In visions we’ve seen them in griefs dark array,
Be thou only faithful and continue to pray.
Yes continue thou faithful, and be of good cheer,
For blessings await thee, and are very near:
When thy heart shall rejoice, and voice cry aloud
Glory, and honor, and praise to the Lord.
But Ellen since sorrow is mingled with joy,
Let us cheer one another, and our time we’ll em-
	ploy,
In seeking for wisdom, for its paths are peace
Its crown is immortal and joys never cease.
	M.E.K.


WOMAN’S NATIONAL PRESS
			EXCURSION.

	THE excursion to California under the
auspices of the Woman’s National Press
Association, leaves Washington Sat-
urday, April 14th 2 p. m. It arrives in
Cincinnati Sunday morning and St. Louis
Sunday evening. The round trip rates
from Washington are $83. From points
farther East the same with local fare added.
From St. Louis the round trip rates are $47.
and at points all along the route parties can
secure a proportionately reduced rate by
writing to Mrs. Joanna W. Turner, 906
Mass. Ave., Washington D. C. and being
enrolled as a member of the excursion
	The sleepers are chartered at a price
which makes them one third less than usual
and reclining chair cars are free from St.
Louis. To engage a whole berth in the
sleeper, parties must send name and ten
dollars as collateral. Arrangements are
made for reduction on meals also in Dining
Car and Buffet, and lunch baskets are ad-
mitted, but must have soft handles to slip
under seats. Can refill them where stops
are made.
	Receptions will be given at Los Angelos,
San Francisco, Salt Lake, and no doubt at
Denver and Chicago. Tickets may be ex-
tended to July 1st, but the party in a
body will have such a grand return sight-
seeing trip that few will want to linger
longer than the 8 or 10 days at San
Francisco.
	Eastern people will confer with agents
nearest their starting points who represent


the Penn. R. R. who run in connection
with the Chesapeake and Ohio. Write to
Mr. McConnell, Agent, at 378 Broadway,
N. Y. Wherever you apply show the
itinerary of Chesapeake and Ohio, which
can be had of their agents or of Mrs.
Turner, and ask the lowest rates to join the
train at Washington—the grandest
Continental trip over our country.


WHY WOMEN WANT THE
MUNICIPAL BALLOT.

1.	BECAUSE, as mothers, they are con-
cerned in the maintenance of law and or-
der, in the suppression of disorderly places,
immoral shows and obscene posters and
publications.
2.	As home-keepers, they are interested
in gas and water rates, in the quality of gas
and water supply, in sewer construction
and connections, in the removal and dis-
posal of garbage, and in the cleaning of
streets, gutters and offensive places.
3.	As citizens and philanthropists, they
are interested in city charities and cor-
rections, in hospital service, in relief work
and care of the poor, in the management of.
penal and reformatory institutions, in the
appointment of police matrons, the care of
dependent or incorrigible children, in the
disposal of tramps and offenders, and in the
preservation of historic places.
4.	As tax-payers and property-holders,
they are interested in the degree of protec-
tion afforded by the fire and police, depart-
ments, in the construction and improve-
ments of streets, sidewalks and parks, and
in all expenditures affecting the rate of
taxation.
	The municipal gives a voice in these and
other municipal affairs in which the wo-
men who live in cities are deeply concerned.
Ex. F.M.A.


MRS. VIRGINIA C. MEREDITH of Cam-
bridge City, Ind., proprieter of one of the
finest Shorthorn herds in the country, is
writing for the Breeder's Gazette a series
of able papers on women as farmers. She
belives there is no spot equal to a farm for
at once furnishing a competence and
enabling a woman to establish a beautiful
home and bring up her children nobly.

	MRS. BALLINGTON BOOTH resides at
Montclair, N. J. She is the mother of a
sturdy little son of six years and a baby
girl sixteen months old. Although she is
so much engaged in lecturing and other
Salvation Army work, her home is well
kept, and her children are healthy and sun-
ny tempered, Mrs. Booth manages to
make her trips short, with frequent returns
home, where all her time, aside from her
office work, is devoted to her children.
“We have such good times together!” she
says.

	A RECENT letter from New Zealand says:
"I have traveled in many countries, but in
no other land have I seen the courtesy and
unobstrusive chivalry habitually exhibited
to women whether young or old, by New
Zealand young men of every condition and
rank. The status of a New Zealand wo-
man is considerably higher than that of her
sister in Australia or England, and she is
not likely to forget that she gained the
political franchise, not by inadvertence or
by party scheming, but as a deliberative act
of justice no less than chivalry on the part
of her countrymen,”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.                    
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-	- 			Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office. Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		 PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY 				 APRIL 1,1894.


[Column 1]
THE PRESENT CONDITIONS.

	THE many difficult problems which arise
out of the condition of the country in con-
sequence of the financial depression are
hard to solve, various temporary remedies
for existing evils are suggested but none
are sufficiently practical or far reaching
enough to cover the ground. The present
outlook is by no means bright considering
things naturally, but to those who put faith
in God there is a consolation, knowing that
He careth for all. Man however is ex-
pected to exert to the utmost the ability
with which He is endowed by his Creator,
not only for himself individually but for
his fellow countrymen. The Savior’s in-
junction “Love thy neighbor” would help
things very much, but on the contrary the
application is made only to one’s own, in-
stead of one’s neighbor. The great good
of humanity is very little considered by the
masses. The rights of each individual in
relation to each other and to the great world
of mankind is not sought out. To get at
the root of the matter and seek out the
cause of the differences between capital and
labor, or between the government and the
governed were a Herculean task, and even
then were the case analyzed what sort of
Doctor could prescribe. And as we can-
not revolutionize the world at large, it
might be well to commence at home.
	If the people of this Territory had heeded
the counsel of its first Governor Brigham
Young, they would be self-sustaining to-
day to a great extent. There would have
been more manufacturing, and more paid
laborers, and there would also have been
more land under cultivation,and consequent-
ly more bread for the hungry.
	By this time the people might have ad-
vanced far enough to have established the
United Order which far surpasses all the
schemes and inventions of the modern
novelist. Bellamy’s ‘‘Looking Backward”
is as a cob house compared to the strong
substantial structure on a firm foundation,
which the united order presents, to the
student of ways and means, by which to
better'the condition of the human family.
	The Single Tax people think that a great
reform in the financial and material ele-
ments of the world can be brought about
through the practice of the methods ad-
vocated by them, indeed they are very
sanguine upon the subject, and it is pos-
sible perhaps for some improvement to be
made, were they able to educate the masses,
or the majority of citizens in the ideas they
are promulgating.

[Column 2]
	When in Chicago during the World’s
Fair the writer attended a meeting and re-
ception given by some of the advocates of
the Single Tax, and heard the matter dis-
cussed on its merits. It is not likely
people will accept this new doctrine very
readily, but in New Zealand where it has
had partial application it had such good ef-
fect that the vote was overwhelming in
favor of its continuance, and it is given in
proof of its benefit “That New Zealand is
the only country within the limits of our
so-called civilization which felt no financial
depression and was unvisited by panic dur-
ing the past year.”
	In brief the few important points are
these. First—“Land in political economy
means all natural opportunities, farms, villa
sites, city lots, fisheries, mines, lumber re-
gions, water power etc.
	Second “Man cannot live without land;
without land he has neither clothes, food,
shelter, nor the thousand and one things
necessary to life, since none of these things
exist except by the application of labor to
land.”
	Third. “Thus the right to life involves
the right to land.”
	Fourth. “Therefore every man has an
equal right to land with every other man.”
	The grand question involved in all this
is, how to secure the land to which one is.
entitled without infringing upon the sacred
rights of others. This will no doubt
hinder the conversion of many as it will
be years before any amicable adjustment
could be reached.
	In the meantime our advice would be to
cultivate the land that lies waste under such
laws and regulations as now exist instead
of idling away one’s time in dispute over
capital and labor, or in tramping over the
country in defiance of decency and good
order.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. NELLIE GRACE late Secretary of
the Relief Society upon the Sandwich 
Islands called at this office on her way
home from her mission with her husband,
her little girl accompanied them. Brother
and Sister Grace have returned well, and
testify that they enjoyed this foreign mis
sion very much indeed. Sister Grace told
us many interesting things concerning the
native women in the several branches of
the Society over there. The sisters on
those far away Islands are anxious to learn
and to be in conformity with our organiza-
tion in the land of Zion. Brother and
Sister Grace have returned to their home in 
Nephi, after nearly three years sojourn in a 
foreign land where Mrs. Grace has been en-
gaged in teaching and her husband in
preaching the Everlasting Gospel to a
benighted people.
	BY invitation of Mrs. Jennie Hyde of the
22nd Ward in this City several of the
sisters met at the residence of Bishop Solo-
mon on Thursday at 5 p. m. March 22nd,
in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the
birthday of the Bishop’s wife. The affair
was perfectly arranged and Mrs. Solomon
had no idea of it until some of the invited
guests arrived. Everything passed off very
pleasantly and the refreshments were both
delicious and abundant and in great variety.
After a social hour or two enlivened by
instrumental music and songs, a program
was carried out under the management of

[Column 2]
Mrs. Hyde consisting of music by the
young ladies and songs by Mrs. Julia Druce
Pugsley, an original poem by Miss Carrie
Smith addressed to Mrs. Solomon, recitation 
“Only A Girl” by Miss Abby Solomon and
speeches by several of the guests including
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, M. L. & Elizabeth Nebeker,
Bishop Solomon, his wife and others,
Sister Mary Ann Hyde spoke beautifully
in the gift of tongues, Sister Zina D. H. 
Young gave the interpretation, there were
quite a number of young sisters present
who had never before heard the gift of
tongues; the evening was a delightful one
in every respect. The EXPONENT joins
with the many friends of Mrs. Solomon in
wishing her many hapyy returns of the
day, with the blessings of health happiness
and prosperity.

	REV. B. B. NAGARKER, of Bombay,
India, is here on a visit to our City, and
expects to remain several days and it is
understood (or stated) that he intends to
make a study of the principles and doctrines
of the Latterday Saints. Mr. Nagarker
is a priest of the Brahmo-Somaj and was a 
Delegate to the Parliament of Religions in
Chicago. The First Presidency of the
Church gave a reception in honor of Mr. 
Nagarker at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Jennings where he had the op-
portunity of meeting not only the First
Presidency of the Church but several of
the Apostles, and a few of the most dis-
tinguished women of the Church, Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, Mrs. George Teasdale, Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow and several other brethren and
sisters. Mrs. Jennings house was artistical-
ly decorated with flowers and trailing vines,
and the dining room was tastefully ar-
ranged. The refreshments were certainly
delicious and graciously dispeused by 
charming young girls. In fact the re-
ception was a success, the instrumental
music of Miss Celia Sharp and the vocal 
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley added, as
good music always does to the enjoyment of
the guests. Mrs. Pugsley besides singing
a difficult opera, in which she reached the
higher notes, the simple, sweet, old ballad
“The Last Rose of Summer,” in her very
melodious voice and graceful manner.

	THE Woman’s Mass Meeting held in the
theatre March 29th, 1894 was a perfect
success numerically, and we hope and trust
it will be in the furtherance of the practice
and promotion of the object and sentiment
of home industries and manufactures.
Mrs. W. S. McCornick presided. Seated
on the platform beside the speakers were
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Maria Y. 
Dougall, Mrs. M. B. Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. George A. Lowe and others.
Dr. Ellen B. Furguson was the first
speaker, making a very able effort in the
interest of home products and the work
to be done in promoting the various enter-
prises. Mrs. Kinney’s was a written paper
and dealt with the ethical. Mrs. Froesieth.
was forcible and very much in earnest, Mrs.
Elmer B. Jones was a very able address
and has been highly spoken of. The last
speaker Mrs. Emily S. Richards was born
in Utah and consequently was familiar
with the efforts made in the early days,
and was well prepared to speak understand-
ingly  upon a subject which she had been
taught in her childhood. The ladies ac-
quitted themselves creditably and it is ar-


dently hoped the meeting will prove bene-
ficial and the result of the great endeavors
being made will strengthen the movement.
	The following resolution was voted upon
	RESOLVED—That the women of Utah are
heartily in sympathy with the home industry
movement and with the efforts of the manufactur-
ers bureau, and that they will support the move-
ment in thought and deed.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U.W. P. C.

	THE U. W. P. C. met by special re-
quest on the evening of the 16th of March,
at the office of Dr. E. R. Shipp. After
prayer by Mrs. H. A. Badger, the minutes
were read by the Secretary and the roll call
responded to with selections from the poets.
	The names of Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson,
Miss Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss
Olea Shipp and Mrs. Fannie Stewart, of
Pleasant Grove, were proposed for member-
ship and voted in as members by the club.
All members voted in favor of having our
next meeting on the usual date, the last
evening of the month.
	The Secretary read an article from Mrs.
Stewart entitled “The Mission of Today.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the coming
meeting of the Federation of Clubs, to be
held in May, at which a representative of 
the U. W. P. C. will be expected to speak
extemporaneously. Mrs. Wells read from
the writings of Hannah T. King a poem
entiled “Life.” A pleasant discussion
followed in which all the members took part.
	While refreshments were being served,
Miss Gladys Woodmansee rendered some
music.
	The programme for the next meeting to
be as for the last meeting with the addition
of an article on “Love,” by Mrs. M. E.
Shipp, a poem by Mrs. N. C. Taylor, and
quotations from the Psalms by the members.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]	
	R.S. REPORTS.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
March 23rd, 1894. President M. I. Horne
presiding. On the stand with President
Horne was her Counselor E. S. Taylor,
and Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells of the Territorial
Board. Meeting opened with singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” etc. Prayer was
offered by Sister S. B. Gibson. Singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion” etc.
Roll called and responded to as follows:
twenty-six branches were represented by
Presidents, eleven by Counselors, one by a
teacher, one by a Secretary making in all
thirty-nine branches, leaving nine without
representation. Sisters Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder were then voted in and
unanimously sustained as aids to the Stake
Presidency of the Relief Society and Ella
W. Hyde as Asst. Sec.
	President Horne said she would like
the sisters to hand in their returns for the
Temple pictures as it was time for the
business to be settled up, said she wished
to explain the object of the organization of
the Relief Society. It was not to help any
that could help themselves, or encourage 
pauperism. Only the needy and afflicted
should be assisted. Thought charity was

[Column 2]
frequently given to those who did not need
it, found in her own experience many un-
worthy poor, Presidents should instruct the
teachers in regard to these things; referred
to the liberality of the people in donating
during the winter and made other remarks;
in regard to conducting the affairs of the
Relief Society we should be practical as
well as spiritual and should not lose sight
of the object of the first organization of
the semi-monthly meetings which was re-
trenchment. Spoke further on this subject,
and of the necessity of obeying counsel,
and the performance of every duty.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor pointed out the
necessity of officers and members of the
Relief Society being united and working
hand in hand with the Bishops. Spoke of
the evils of fault finding, those who did so
were the ones who never did anything to as-
sist the cause. Said some of the needy
were too proud to ask for help, teachers
should have the spirit of discernment to
seek them out and minister to their wants.
Urged all to be generous in giving to the
poor and it should be returned to them
seven fold. Gave other excellent
instructions.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said we had learned
many useful lessons in these meetings.
Urged the importance of having uniformity
in our work. Spoke at some length in re-
gard to the funds in the treasury getting
low. The fifty cents due from each society
had not been handed in. Wished to remind
the sisters of this fact that they might act
accordingly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the undivided interest and unity in the
hearts of the sisters, and of the necessity
of being practical. We should inform our
selves in regard to the best time to set out
mulberry trees, and dwelt on the impor-
tance of advancing the silk industry and
awakening an interest in the same, spoke
of the good it would do in employing
children, and helping the poor.
	President Horne made some closing re-
marks continuing the subject of wheat.
The sisters should have bins made and
store it up, the time was not far distant
when it would be needed. Conference ad-
jorned ’till 2 p. m. Singing “Lord dismiss
us, with Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor E.
S. Taylor, President Zina D. H. Young
and her counselors Bathsheba W. Smith
and President Angus M. Cannon. Meet-
ing opened by singing, “O say what is
truth,” etc. Prayer by President Angus
M. Cannon. Singing “Our God we raise
to Thee,” etc.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
exhorted the sisters to cease dealing with
outsiders, and sustain and build each other
up. It was unavoidable that our children
should go to school to those not of us, but
mothers should instil into their minds the
principles of the gospel that they may not
be led astray by the influences that surround
them. Spoke of Christian Science and
other evils that exist. Also exhorted those
present to patronize our home institutions.
The Woman’s Store should receive more
patronage in order to make it a success.
Spoke of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
other home journals, and of the importance
of sustaining these industries.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt to endorse all
that had been said we should live in
humility and seek to know the mind and

[Column 3]
will of the Lord. Spoke upon the subject
of home manufacture, and of the impor-
tance of teaching our children to be in-
dustrious, and watching over their interests.
	Sister Elizabeth Pixton thought the in-
structions that had been given were timely.
Continued the subject of home manufacture.
Said we should be thankful for the bless-
ings we enjoy and not complain of hard
times, made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt blessed in
istening to what had been said. Urged
the necessity of avoiding extravagance,
and educating our children in habits of
economy and industry. Also spoke upon
the subject of home manufacture.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the instruction that
had been given and spoke upon the topics
that had been touched upon by the previous
speakers, said we should not let new
comers get the start of us in the move that
was being made. Spoke further on the-
subject of home industry.
	President Angus M. Cannon addressed
the meeting for a short time. Said he
endorsed all that he had heard. The in-
structions that had been imparted had a
tendency to do good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of wives and mothers,
and encouraged the sisters to go forward in
their good work.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks dwelling principally on the im-
portance of fostering industries and em-
ploying our time. Referred again to the
planting of mulberry trees and the making
of our own silk. Encouraged the idea of
knitting and of gathering mustard, and
many other things in which we could use
our lives and energies to the building up of
Zion.
	President M. I. Horne hoped we would
treasure up the good instructions we had
received and be benefited by them, made
other closing remarks. Conference was ad-
journed for thee months. Singing “The
time is far spent,” etc. Benediction by M.
W. Wilcox.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.
		
	SANPETE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Spring City Meeting House, Dec. 16th,
L893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding.
Conference opened by singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire,” prayer by Brother
John Frantzen. Singing “For the strength
of the hills we bless thee.” Minutes of
the last conference read. President M. A.
P. Hyde prayed that we would have
a time of rejoicing during conference and
that the Spirit of the Lord would be poured
out upon all present. The branches of the
Relief Society of Fayette, Gunnison,
Sterling, Moroni, Chester, Mt. Pleasant,
Wales, Spring City and Ephraim were
represented, the sisters testifying of the
good that is being done among the poor.
Counselor Sarah Peterson was pleased
with the humble spirit manifested. Spoke
at some length on the storing of grain and
the culture of silk.
	President Canute Peterson advised the
sisters to gather wheat for it will be needed.
said “We have only a few years left until
the prophecies that have been uttered will
be fulfilled. I do not think thirty years
will pass away until all that has been
spoken of will come to pass and that the
earth will be purified from all evil, and that


Christ will reign here and be our King.
May God our Eternal Father bless us in
our associations, for we cannot do without
them. Whenever you pray and you want
it to have power, effect and virtue, ask it in
the name of Jesus Christ.”
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, “Guide us, O thou great Jehovah”
benediction by Bro. John T. Allred.
			MARY A. F. HANSEN Stake Sec.
Spring City Jan. 15th, 1894.

			MARICOPA STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	WE held our Relief Society Stake Con-
ference Thursday afternoon, March 15th,
with a full house, all the Wards were
represented; had some good instructions
from both brethren and sisters; good re-
ports from each Ward but I believe that our
Lamanite Sisters had the best report in the
stake. We miss our stake president
Brother C. I. Robson so much, it was so
seldom when he was able that he was not
at his meetings and gave us such good
counsel, but our loss is his gain and he had
been quite a sufferer for many years. Our
Stake Conference commenced Sunday
morning March 18, and closed Monday
afternoon had full houses both days, more
than the house would hold conveniently.
We had good reports from each Ward and
good instructions from the brethren that
spoke. We rather expected some of the
Apostles with us at Conference, but they
failed to get here, hope some of them may
be with us soon.
	Our meeting house is now entirely too
small even for the Sunday School and dur-
ing the winter at our Stake Conference we
are much crowded, we have a Bowery to
use during the warm weather but still we
need a Stake house very much.
	Our Stake Academy has closed and
Brother Broadbent our teacher has a night
school two nights in the week. Some of
our people are getting the Mexico fever
bad,some have gone down there and others
will go in the near future.
	This is a good country, it gets quite
warm during the Summer but it is generally
more healthy then, than during the
Winter. Times are rather dull here now
and money scarce but we suppose from
what we can hear times are as good here
as any where else. We have quite a
number here who are not of our faith but
get along right well. The weather here
for a few days past has been quite cold for
the time of year and for this country.
			Very Respectfully,
						M. E. CROSBY.


118					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MARIETTA HOLLEY maintains her pop-
ularity. Her last book, “Samantha at the
World’s Fair,” sold 40,000 copies the first
three weeks after its publication. 
	ANOTHER victory was won in the Massa-
chusetts House of Representatives last
Thursday. The municipal woman suffrage
bill was passed to be engrossed by the
decisive vote of 90 yeas to 79 nays and 28
pairs, making in all 118 to 107. An ad-
ditional section was added to the bill,
providing for a vote of the men at the
November election on the question: “Shall
municipal suffrage be granted to women?”
But the women will have the law, and the
expression will have no legal validity.


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the fourteenth Ward, Feb. 10th,
1894, President M. I. Horne presiding.
The congregation sang the hymn: “Oh!
happy souls who pray.” Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack, continued by singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Also
minutes of second and fifteenth Ward
Primary Association.
	President Horne said “I am pleased to be
with you today. My heart rejoices in
listening to the minutes of the Primary As-
sociations. I had not the privilege of at-
tending such meetings when young; but
was always a faithful Sunday School at-
tendant. All these meetings are calculated
as blessings for us. The Relief Society
was organized for the blessing and benefit-
ing of the poor. We come to meeting to
gain spiritual blessing. There are many
temptations to lead our youth away. If
they were faithful to their meetings and
other duties, they would have more power
to resist temptation. We are promised if
we will seek first the Kingdom of God; all
things else will be added unto us. We
should be careful at all times not to speak
evil of, or judge our fellow beings. There
is one above who will judge all. Let us
seek him in prayer continually. The
calamities we read of daily are necessary. 
We must fortify ourselves against all evil.
All are trials, still we can see how well
the Lord has blessed his people, in living up
to the spirit of God; think of the wonderful
work the Prophet Joseph accomplished, and
the many trials he endured. I love to
testify of him. There are not many now
living who have met him face to face.
Much more might be said but I want to hear
from my sisters.
	Counselor E. Webb “I know the spirit
of the Lord is with us, how greatly we are
blessed, in being privileged to come here
in peace, and testify of the goodness of
God to us, his children. If we could realize
that it is not for our much speaking, but
for the humility and meekness of our
hearts, I do think we would pray to our
heavenly Father to keep us humble at all
times. We should prepare ourselves for
our work in the Temple, the attendance is
increasing, which proves there is a wak-
ing up in this great work for our dead.”
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—“I am very much
interested in the Primary Association, my
children have nearly all acted as secretaries
in the Primary Association. I know they
have been greatly benefited by their as-
sociation with the Primaries, I know the
Lord hears and answers our prayers. I
have been healed many times. Have re-
ceived many blessings. The Gift of
Tongues was bestowed upon me, many
years ago in Wales. Sisters I feel that
angels are present with us today.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young—“My thoughts
have dwelt on the subjects touched upon by
my sisters this afternoon. These meetings
were established by President Brigham
Young, for the benefit of the daughters of
Zion and for the blessing of the poor.
This Hall was dedicated and set apart for
these and other meetings. President John
Taylor stood here, he was a martyr to the 
cause of truth. He laid his body down
with bullets in it. If we would read in the
Doctrine and CovenantsSec. fifth and sixth,

[Column 2]
it would be a benefit to us. Let us cling
to the spiritual gifts. Let go some of the
temporal. The more humble we live the
more of the Spirit of God we will enjoy;”
gave other good counsel.
	Sister Sarah Phelps exhorted all present,
to be faithful to their duties and not lose the
spirit of the Lord. Closed by speaking in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Paul.
	Many sisters in the congregation bore
testimonies of the goodness of God to them
when tempted and tried, and of having
been healed by his power. All spoke of
the good Spirit present, desired to con-
tinue faithful, and aid in the building up of
the Kingdom of God. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, made some
excellent remarks, advised those present to
put their trust in the Lord. “Stand upon
your feet and testify of his goodness, my
heart is full of love and peace. I love to
meet with the Saints of God. I think it a
good thing to meet often in sociables. We
dont want to be extravagant in our refresh-
ments. We should be plain and simple in
all our ways.” 
	In her closing remarks President Horne
said “I dont wish to dampen the good
Spirit of the meeting; but there is an item
of business I wish to mention. At the last
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
Woman’s Coop, it was decided to give re-
ports only once a year. We are doing very
well considering the dull times. I know
the Lord has blessed our efforts. We have
not had the support we should have had.
Some seem to think it too small an affair,
will give their patronage to other stores.
They think our stock is too small. We
could carry a much larger stock if we had
the support we should have. I hope my
sisters will consider these things. Be awake
to their duties and sustain all Home In-
dustries. Sister Phelps made a request
that a special prayer be offered for our
missionaries abroad.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
the Doxology. Beneediction Sister Lydia
D.Alder.
	VILATE YOUNG, Sec. 

	SYNOPSIS of minutes of theSemi-month-
ly Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday Feb 24th, 1894. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding, opened by sing-
ing, “Come come ye saints.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of
the sixth ward also the fifteenth ward
Primary Associations read by their
respective Secretaries. Secretary asked to
be excused; and President Horne called on
Sister Alder to take the minutes.
	President Horne spoke of the many
blessings we have received, said she had
not been quite as well as usual, but hoped
that the sisters would arise and bear testi-
mony. 
	Sister Snow spoke of being sleepless at
night, but that her mind would constantly
take up her life from the present time and
carry her backward to her youth. Said she
had done this so much, that she come to
think that her Heavenly Father, was show-
ing her, her long life and bringing things to
her remembrance. Why she did not know
Whether because she was soon to go and
commence a new life, or not. She felt 
thankful for the restrospection and desired to
to be faithful during life.


President Horne introduced Sister
Townsend, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Cache Stake who said “I love to mingle
with my sisters. I feel to rejoice in the
work of this church. I desire to so order
my life as to gain the approval of my
Heavenly Father. I had good times in
these meetings years ago, while I lived in
Salt Lake City. I have noticed with
pleasure the many young people who attend
Professor Talmage’s Theology class. I
hope that we will be able to save them with
a glorious salvation.” Gave other good in-
struction.
	President Horne spoke of a visit of her-
self and President Z. D. H. Young, to the
Relief Society at Lehi, where, they had a
delightful meeting. Some of the brethren
met with them. Spoke of a brother who
testified that just before he was called on a
mission, he had felt to go to the Relief
Society meetings and after he had gone in-
to the world, how thankful he was that he
was able to tell them of these meetings of
the sisters. Teachers meeting was held in
the evening, and never before, had the veil
seemed so thin between this world and the
next as now, others testified to this also,
she closed by saying, “May God give us
strength to do our work, and come back in-
to His presence.” A sister in the congrega-
tion bore testimony of the power of prayer.
Sister Riddle bore a faithful testimony.
	Sister Morris spoke some on Book of
Mormon history. A Sister in the con-
gregation testified to having been healed
many times by the power of God.
Sisters Bidgood, Hazon and Sister E. Brown
bore faithful testimonies. Sisters sang a
hymn. Sister Morris of the 8th, Ward,
“I pray that my faith will be strengthened,
and that in the end it will be well with all
of us.” Sisters Forsythe, Mary Silver, a
sister in the congregation and Sister Work-
man, each bore a faithful testimony of the
goodness and power of God. Sister Tate
of Tooele also bore testimony and Presi-
dent Horne made closing remarks. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks. Sang “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Bene-
diction Sister Maria Wilcox.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
Women teach us repose, civility, and
dignity.—Voltaire.
	I CAN drive a coach and six through
every act of parliament.—Daniel O’Con-
nell. 
	IT is one of the gravest mistakes in the
world to be looking for great opportunities.
	CARRY the radiance of your soul in your
face; let the world have the benefit of it— 
Fox.
	BEWARE of the vicious man who pro-
poses to reform his life on the installment
plan.
	MERE compromising, covering up is not
peacemaking. The bold assertion of the
right is peacemaking.
	Whatever our place, allotted to us by
Providence, that for us is the post of honor
and duty, God estimates us not by the
position we are in, but by the way in which 
we fill it.— Edwards.
	I HAVE lived to know that the great se-
cret of human happiness is this: Never suf-
fer your energies to stagnate. The old


adage of “too many irons in the fire” con-
veys an untruth. You cannot have too
many—poker, tongs, and all—keep them
all going.—Adam Clarke.
	FILIAL obedience is the first and greatest
requisite of a state; by this we become
good subjects to our emperors, capable of
behaving with subordination to our
superiors, and grateful dependents on
heaven; by this we become fonder of mar-
riage, in order to be capable of exacting
obedience from others in our turn; by this
we become good magistrates; for early
submission is the truest lesson to those who
would learn to rule. By this the whole
state may be said to resemble one family,
of which the emperor is the protector,
father, and friend—Goldsmith.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. URSULA N. GESTERFIELD, of New
York is the author of the much discussed
novel, “The Woman who Dares.”
	DR. SARAH C. HALL, of Fort Scott Kan.,
has been elected President of the County
Medical Association. She has also received
the appointment of Medical Examiner for
the Degree of Honor.
	IT was eminently appropriate that the
youngest and least experienced member of
the Massachusetts House of Representatives
should make the most elaborate speech
against equal rights for women. Young
Mr. Dallinger, of Cambridge, is just out of
college, and will probably live to grow
wiser.
	MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD has written
a biography of her mother, Mary T. Hill
Willard. She has been assisted in the
work by her kinswoman. Mrs. Minerva
Grace Norton, and Lady Henry Somerset
has written an introduction. The book
will be entitled, “A Great Mother.” It
will be issued by the Woman’s Temperance
Publishing Association of Chicago.
	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY lately re-
signed her position as corresponding sec-
retary of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and nominated Mrs.
Ellen Battelle Dietrick as her successor.
This nomination was confirmed by a major-
ty of the Business Committee and Mrs.
Avery was made auditor in Mrs. Dietrick’s
place.
	A LETTER has just been received from
Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew and Dr. Kate
Bushnell, on their way to Maulmain, Bur-
ma. The ladies remained in India but a
few days, during which they spoke before
the Methodist Conference by invitation of
Bishop Thoburn, and had an interview
with Pundita Ramabai, whose school for
high-caste Hindu widows at Poona is now
housed in excellent buildings and doing
well. Mrs. Thoburn is president of a
thriving W. C. T. U. in Calcutta, a meet-
ing of which was called during the visit of
the White Ribbon missionary, Mrs. Hauser,
of Lucknow, president of the India W. C.
T. U. She has succeeded in establishing
twenty local auxiliaries, and spreading
through the press and private cor-
respondence much information about the
society.


IN MEMORIAM.

	SISTER SARAH B. CARTER FOSS died at East
Bountiful, Davis county, at 8:45 a. m., March 4th,
1894, of old age. She was the daughter of Ezra
F. Carter, and was born at Limerick, Maine, Sep-
tember 30, 1800, and was therefore 93 years, 5
months and 4 days old at the time of her demise.
With her husband, Calvin Foss, and Sister Phebe
Carter Woodruff, she was baptized by Elder
John F. Boynton, in September, 1834, and in
February, 1835, Brother Foss died, leaving Sister
Foss the responsibility of the care of seven
children, five of whom were baptized by Elder
Woodruff and came to Utah in his company in
1850. They settled in the Fourteenth ward of
this city, where Sister Foss resided for 36 years.
She was 34 years of age when she was left a
widow. By her industry, frugality and economy
she reared her seven children, who grew to
manhood and womanhood. They all honored
and revered her for her amiable example and
devotion, and in return she shared the confidence
and love of not only her own children but of her
grandchildren and great grandchildren. She had
38 grand-children and 72 great-grand-children.
	Sister Foss’ home in Maine, was the home of
the Elders when on missions in that vicinity; and
many of those who were on their way emigrating
to Zion, remained over at her hospitable home to
rest and make further preparations for the long
journey in covered wagons over land.
	Sister Foss was one of the first Teachers in the
Relief Society at its organization in the 14th,
Ward, August, 24th, 1869. On July 31st, she was
chosen First Counselor to Sister Phebe Woodruff,
who was appointed President of the Teachers of
the above Society at its reorganization, after the
move South and continued Counselor until
February 1885 when she resigned on account of
illhealth.
	The funeral of this veteran saint was held in
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms March 8th,
the services were conducted by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor and the speakers were President Wilford
Woodruff, President Jos. F. Smith, Apostle F. D.
Richards President Geo. Q. Cannon also Sister
Zina D. H. Young who in her remarks referred
to its being the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Phebe Woodruff. Each of the speakers
bore testimony to the diligence, endurance and
faithfulness of the deceased her many admirable
qualities as a woman and a saint. The funeral
was largely attended by the friends and neighbors
of Sister Foss, who had enderred herself by her
amiability and uprightness of character to all with
whom she was associated.
COM.

	THE way was long and tedious
	And the wind blew loud and fast
	Huge mountains rose before thee
	Dark waters went surging past
	But thou did’st wade through the waters,
	Clinging to the Iron Rod
	And thou did’st climb the mountains
	With thine eyes fixed on thy God.

	Now, the way is smooth and fairer
	The silvery streams glide by
	And step by step advancing
	Thou shalt reach the throne on high
	The dark waters and the mountains
	Have all vanished into air
	And thou dost know the reason
	Why great sorrows thou should’st bear.

	The mysteries of the Father
	Are much plainer uuto thee
	His wisdom and His justice,
	Methinks thou now can’st see
	Thy rest is sweet and glorious
	Thy companions fair and bright
	Oh! listen to the greeting
	Praise God! she’s won the fight.
RUTH M. FOX.


OBITUARIES.

FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON.

	FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON was born Oct.
26th, 1810 at Jefferson County,State of New York
and was the daughter of General Clark Allen and
Martha Thompson, She was a direct descendent
of General Ethan Allen, she joined the church


[Column 1]
in the early days with her husband the late
Dimick B. Huntington, they having endured all
the persecutions of the Saints driven from their
home again and again to seek new ones. She
accompanied her husband in the famous Mormon
Battalion there enduring all the hardships of a
soldier’s life and arriving in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake four days behind the Pioneers, here
having all to endure that human beings could
endure. She was four months without tasting
bread before her youngest daughter was born
living on roots and anything that would sustain
life. She helped pioneer the new settlements
south, being in Provo during the Indian trouble
there, not knowing what moment herself and
family would have to be sacrificed to the wily
and cruel savages; also at Manti in the early days,
from there returned to Salt Lake City in 1851 here
she joined the missionary field with her husband
among the Indians, where it required all the
patience and faith that only a Latterday Saint can
acquire but never doubting the mercies and
goodness of God, and His promises to the faith-
ful; was at the first organization of the Relief
Society by Joseph Smith the Prophet when Emma
Smith was elected president. Sister Huntington
was the mother of eight children all of whom
had preceded her to the other shore except
a son and daughter who remain. She went
with her daughter Sister Julia Mellen out to
Pleasant Green in 1890, where she remained up
the time of her death, which occured Dec. 14 1894,
she passed peacefully away, surrounded by kind
friends, and all that loving hands could do for
her to make her last moments happy.
Sister Zina D. H. Young her sister in law, was
with Sister Huntington much of the time during
her last illness, and heard her fervent and earnest
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and also
witnessed her patience in suffering the pains of
mortality. To her, death must indeed have been ,
a happy release, and those beautiful words of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning seem singularly ap-
propriate.
	“He giveth His beloved sleep,
		Sleep soft beloved! we sometimes say,
		Who have no time to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep;
		But never doleful dream again.
		Shall break the happy slumbers; when
	He giveth His beloved sleep.

Editor Exponent:
IT is my painful duty to inform you of the
death of our beloved President Harriet Amelia
Lee, after a long and lingering illness she died
January 21st, 1894. Sister Lee was born Nov.
25th 1831, in Rutland Co. State of Vermont. and
was the daughter of Clarissa and Daniel Carter,
her parents becoming members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, at an early date
moved to Kirtland, Ohio, and later to Missouri,
and from there to Nauvoo, Ill. She experienced
all the hardships encountered by the Saints, also
resided for a time on little Mosquito Creek, which 
is near Winter Quarters: at this place, she be-
came acquainted with William H. Lee and was
married on the 11th of March 1849. She was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Utah in 1850, living at Cottonwood
until 1855, when the family moved to Bountiful
where they resided until 1873, then moved to
Woodruff, Rich Co. Her vast experience and
willingness to do good together with her natural
abi ity made her a fit leader in the social sphere
in which she moved. She was president of the
Relief Society, counselor to the president of the
Primary and a Sunday school teacher at Wood
ruff up to the time of her death. Her death
was caused by heart failure, the funeral services
were held in the meeting house at Woodruff,
where the largest audience assembled that has
ever met in that house. The remains were
interred in the Bountiful cemetery.
	She leaves a husband, six children, twenty
eight grand-children and one great grand-
child to mourn her loss. 
								COM.

IN MEMORIAM.

MARY MOOR SCHULTHESS was born in Zurich,
Swiizerland, April 8th, 1839, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1865, emigrated to Utah in 1879, and died Feb.
24th, 1894. While in her native land, Sister
Schulthess an[-] another sister, who were the only
members of the church in the immediate neighbor-
hood, traveled twelve miles to meeting on foot,
and many times fasting.
She was alone for thirteen years but she always

[Column 2]
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
gospel, and through her zeal and integrity, all of
her family, were added to the church, and some
others also.
	After coming to Utah, she labored faithfully as
a teacher in the First Ward Relief Society which
position she honorably filled until death removed
her from our midst, and she was called by our
Heavenly Father to more extensive usefulness in
a higher sphere.
	Just previous to her death, she bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the gospel, and exhorted
each member of her family, to be diligent in the
performance of their duty, and desired that they
do not grieve for her, as she was willing and
anxious to labor on the other side of the vail.
	“Oh! call it not death, it is life begun
	For the waters are passed, the home is won;
	The ransomed spirit hath reached the shore,
	Where they weep and suffer and sin no more
	She is safe in her Father’s Home above,
	In the place prepared by her Savior’s love.”
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has re-
leased our dearly beloved sister, from the cares
and sufferings of this world, and extended her
field of labor, therefore be it
	Resolved, that while we sympathize with the
bereaved family, and feel that we have lost an ef-
ficient worker, yet we realize that our loss will be
her gain and we feel to humbly bow to the will of
Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved that we emulate her noble examples
of charity and patience, and
	Resolved that we give a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, that a copy be sent
to the EXPONENT office for publication, an[-] that
they be copied in the record of our Society.
	MARGARET F. STEEL, President.
	AMY A. THOMAS Secretary,
	ANNIE L. KAMMERLE, Asst. Sec.
First Ward, Salt Lake City March 6th, 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FUNERAL REFORMS.
	A DISPATCH from London says,—One of
the largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened at West-
minister. It is under the auspices of
the Burial, Funeral, and Mourning Reform
Association, and its object is to advocate the
exercises of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning. It is also
sought to create a sentiment in favor of the
early interment of bodies, and the use of.
coffins of such material as will rapidly de-
cay after burial, on the ground that this is
in accordance with the laws of nature and
avoids sanitary evils, while the practice of
burying in almost imperishable coffins is
fraught with great danger. The conference
will consider the feasibility of securing the
aid of Parliament in the direction of secur-
ing the passage of a legislative enactment
regulating funerals.


PARENTS and guardians of children of
school age and persons who own taxable
property—not necessarily tax payers, as two
hundred and fifty dollars worth of property
is exempt—are voters for members of School
Boards in Michigan.
	The requirements are the same for wo-
men as for men. In the country, in vil-
lages, in Flint and some others, incorpor-
ated city registration is not required. As
all jewelry (gold, silver, brass, etc.) and all
musical instrutnents, (jewsharps, mouth
organs, etc.) and money at interest (one
cent or more) are assessed as personal
property every person of legal age and
residence may vote. Women may be
elected members of country, village and
city School Boards and they may be elected
Township School Inspectors and County
Superintendent of Schools. Four hundred
and thirty-seven women voted April 2nd in
Flint, Michigan.


MRS. LIZZIE H. SHIPP, professor and
practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a
school of obstetrics and nursing in Sal
Lake City the first Monday in May. A
half yearly course will be taught for the
unprecedented low terms of ten dollars.
All persons desiring to avail themselves of
this opportunity will please consult me by
letter or in person at No. 34 S. 7th, East
Street, Salt Lake City.
DUNFORD’S
	Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
	FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for
				30 days.
	DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
		57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16, 1894.
Office: 34 East 5th South, 
	Telephone 383.
Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, Iates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No.41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
	Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Will begin her next Class April 9th. Reviews
given to former students free of charge. For
particulars enquire personally or by letter at No.
18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

