[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 724 | Special Feature | For All Eternity If Not for Time | Harold B. Lee]
[For All Eternity If Not for Time Harold B. Lee]

han had she. Why then had this last I of The Council of the Twelve promised blessing been denied her? The blessing from the Lord through this_ patriarch, had promised her that she would become a mother in Israel. She had never married, therefore she, in her mortal life, had not been privileged to become a mother. I spoke of this in the services and posed my _ unanswered question, "Why?" The second: A _ distraught father and mother had sought an interview to see if some light and understanding could be given them to ease their aching hearts and to bolster their faith. They had just received that ominous and tersely worded telegram from the military informing them of the tragic death of their young son. Just home from a mission for the Church, he had been inducted into military service. Before leaving, he, too, had received a patriarchal blessing in which he was promised that he would have a posterity of sons and daughters. Had the patriarch's words been inspired? Why did this promise fail since, to their certain knowledge, their son had lived worthy of every blessing promised to the faithful who "live unto the Lord''? Following my remarks in the f Not For linc =a are Sa first instance, the stake patriarch and former stake president was the concluding speaker. He declared two vital principles well documented in the scriptures. He explained the doctrine that "life" did not begin with mortal birth and does not end with mortal death. When a patriarch pronounces an inspired blessing, such a blessing encompasses the whole of life, not just the phase we call mortality. "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (1 Cor. 15:19), the apostle Paul had written. Failing to understand this great truth, we are "miserable" and sometimes our faith is challenged. With faith that "looks" beyond the grave, and trusting in the Divine Providence to bring all things in their proper perspective in due time, we have hope and our fears are calmed. 'Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things;" declared the Prophet Alma, "therefore if ye have faith, ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 38:21.) This faithful sister, the patriarch explained, although not privileged to bear children in mortality, may through sacred ordi- October 1968 nances in holy temples on earth, in the Lord's own time, be sealed to a worthy husband which sealing, by divine authority, if acceptable to both, could in the world beyond this permit a holy union in eternal wedlock, with the promise of posterity beyond the grave. It was concerning eternal increase that the Lord, in a revelation, declared to those entering into this covenant of marriage and were faithful to the end, that they would have an "exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." (D&C 132:19.) As though to further clarify this revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith explained: "But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (DHC, V, p. 391.) As the apostle Peter explained, following the Master's_ resurrection and as a result of the visitation of the risen Lord to the world of departed spirits, the Master preached to them "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.) Explained simply: this means that to those worthy beyond this life who accept of the vicarious work performed by authority in the Lord's temples, such ordinances performed for those who have passed on are as effhcacious as though they were living. Were this not so, as the Lord explained to Peter, to whom the keys of the kingdom were given in the meridian of times, the "gates of hell" would have prevailed against the Church of Jesus Christ. Without this vicarious work, instituted in behalf of the faithful who "die in the Lord," the full mission of the Master's atoning sacrifice would not have been extended to such as those illustrated in the instances cited above and many similar which could be cited. You loved ones of that faithful missionary sister, look forward to that glorious day for the promise of motherhood, and you parents of the faithful son who was promised a_ posterity, do not despair. In the Lord's own way and in his own time, he will bring all things right in his own way. Thanks be to God! Sometime ago I had occasion to write some things to the many faithful sisters who not as yet or may not in mortal life have women's greatest expectations fulfilled. It is appropriate to 726 For Al Eternity 'f Not For Time eWise, you © may lose early life Your liy, illness by accident > Or in ¢ eS in their ¢ Panions Within th urch here In mor d. Ality, oy he eafter, nd throy h Ife in 1824, be Ore th hurch Promises h Iness of his aS Organiz d, and Joseph Mar. Blessings? 727 departed this eterna] ITlage be heirs to the Pleasant YOUrnes Pauline J. Jensen ® I look out of the window at the snow that falls effortlessly, making, as in James Russell Lowell's poem, "All silence and all glisten."" Since before Christmas it has come, a bit each day, until the tall drifts are at waist level, with mountains where the wind has whipped it to peaks. The calendar announces that it is nearly spring, but here in our Northland, there is little to indicate that soft breezes and a warm sun are approaching. A restlessness siezes me, and I think of all the beautiful countries that are now sun-drenched and caressed by gentle winds. I long to be there on one of those lovely beaches, watching the ebb and flow of tide and hearing the cries of the gulls. But I really don't have to go outside my four walls to be in some of those places. My generous teacher-daughter, worldtraveled, has brought those countries to me. I walk across the room and lightly tap the cowbells that hang in the archway. I am in Switzerland, from where they 728 came. I see the curving hills, the q pastures, and hear the music from the bells of the patient cows grazing on the green. It is springtime, and the meadows bloom with delicate flowers, and the air is scented with pine. I take a deep breath, then turn and lift the doll music box, and marvel at its perfection. I wind it and soon the strains of "Silent Night" take me to a small Swiss village and a church glowing with lights against the winter darkness. Then the music slows and comes to a lingering end. I leave Switzerland, and my mind travels quickly to China, as I gaze upon an exquisite bit of ceramic on the mantel. The detail is meticulous—the face of the old man lined with the cares of the day; his wife beside him, her hand on his shoulder, her anxious eyes upon him. Is she worried that he had toiled so long? The question unanswered, I go to the figurines of the rural area of that vast land, and see the peasants as they labor in the rice paddies. I hear their staccato cries to one another. I see the children nearby, their little figures bundled against the chill of spring. From a drawer I take the jewelry that came from Hong Kong. As I touch the uneven, but oh, so beautiful designs, I see the woman who made it, bent to her tasks, gnarled fingers fashioning a delicate tracery, adorned with colorful stones. It is an easy trip from China to Japan. My eyessearch the painted blossoms on the four seasons I The delicate beige and black against the brown brocaded matting accent the skill and give appreciation of the outstanding screen. Artistic endowments of the people of that lovely land—Japan. I pick up a lovely bowl of Wedgwood and run my fingers over its raised design. I am now in England. I stand, transfixed, before the Changing of the Guard. My heart thrills to the bongs from Big Ben. My mind exults as I tread the halls of Westminster. All that I have read of it comes crowding in and fills me with awe. I walk reverently through the Poet's Corner, and say a word of thanks that so many of the "greats" are here memorialized in time. I walk along the Avon.