[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 787 | Lesson | Social Relations The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Alberta H. Christensen (Reference Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizadek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report 3-4 minutes, on how the lesson "Lighting the Way" influenced her Christmas. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with some aspects of today's world which may present problems and new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman. The objective indicates that some ways of meeting certain of these problems will be suggested. In this respect this lesson and the following one are closely allied. The following lesson may be rightly considered as a continuation of this one. THE WORLD TODAY. Today's world is a world of paradox. On one hand _ there are complexity, apprehension, confusion, even disillusionment. On the other hand there are marvelousachievements, innumerable opportunities, and the extent to which these situations affect the Latter-day Saint woman depends largely upon her circumstances, environment, and attitude. 

787 October 1968

 Class Involvement Discussion Questions 1. What in your opinion is the greatest challenge facing the Latter-day Saint mother today? 2. Whatsituations offer greatest challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman of middle years, with no children in the home? 3. What specific situations are a challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman (a) as a neighbor; (b) as a friend? CONSIDER THE WORLD The opinions of other Latterday Saint women relative to the problems and challenges of today may be more meaningful after we have taken an over-all view of today's world, asking ourselves, "What is it. Like, this wonderful, yet perplexing world?" We know that in today's world there are probably many more people upon the earth than in any former period in the world's history. One million people are added each week to the earth's total population. (1968 statistic.) There are more people to be fed, more to be clothed, more to travel from one place to another. We read that approximately seventy per cent of the world's population live in urban centers. More people mean more situations involving human relationships; more people living in cities introduces another dimension to these relationships. Weknow that general advances in the field of the sciences, in manufacturing technology and education have produced a highly industrialized world economy. A closer view of the present may help us recognize the exciting wonders and the _ undesirable situations in today's' world. As we enumerate the following 788 factors which make _ today's world stimulating and complex, we set the stage for this lesson. We also understand more easily how human relationships are affected by conditions in today's world. AREAS OF EXPANDING ACHIEVEMENT In today's expanding achievements we have: 1. Made great strides in medical knowledge and techniques, even to the transplanting of some human organs. 2. Explored outer space, even to photographing the surface of the moon and utilizing acquired information. 3. Widened horizons of knowledge through education and extensive reading material. 4. Made new archeological discoveries, unearthing information regarding past civilizations. 5. Explored the depths of the oceans. 6. Extended methods and speed of transportation. 7. Established programs to increase literacy, especially in underdeveloped countries. 8. Developed improved agricultural methods for better and greater productivity. (Others may be suggested.) AREA OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIP In the area of human relationship we have (unhappily so): 1. Poverty and famine in many parts of the world. 2. International rivalries and _ political intrigue. 3. Racial unrest in many countries. 4. Conflict between labor and management. 5. Rioting in cities throughout the world and various manifestations of disregard for law. 6. An increase in juvenile delinquency and adult crimes. 7. War and rumors of war. 8. A decrease of spiritual faith even to a repudiation of religion in some areas of the world. To The Class Leader An oral enumeration or chalkboard listing of the following will call to mind the factors which make today's world stimulating and complex and set the stage for this lesson. It is suggested that the discussion be focused upon the human involvement situations. This is an_ over-simplified panoramic view of today's world. Some areas are fraught with extreme peril, with trouble and complication. It is the world in which the Latter-day Saint woman lives today. She knows that she is living in a world of rapid change, of temptation, conflict, and innumerable problems. To say that these are not troublesome times is not to speak realistically. But the picture is not altogether grim, for there are countless opportunities for rewarding experiences and personal growth, and innumerable opportunities for service to others. There are innumerable intelligent, capable adults of good will, and innumerable children—innocent, gifted and of great promise. Moreover, the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to earth, now— in our day. Its teachings, its guidance, and the blessings of the Holy Priesthood are here for our benefit. Speaking of the spiritual darkness that preceded, and of this_ restoration, President Clark states: But God's love and mercy was again to be manifested. Men were not to be left without the knowledge of the essentials of the plan of salvation, nor without opportunity to enjoy the blessings of a righteous life under the reign of the God-given Gospel plan. That knowledge and that plan were to be restored to the earth, for it had been again lost, as it had been after Adam, after Enoch, after AbraLesson Department ham, after Moses. And so it has been. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1950, pp. 107-108; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 21.) This restored gospel is an allimportant part of the Latterday Saint woman's present world. THE MORE IMMEDIATE SCENE Irrespective of world conditions, some of which greatly endanger the stability and happiness of home life, a mother's general responsibilities to her children and adult associates remain constant. It is a major duty of the mother (shared with the father) to help the child become sufficiently independent to meet the world outside the home. Experts in the field of child development and family relationships remind us that the child should, from the earliest 'weeks, have a feeling of security. He should have the emotional support of knowing that he is loved. With opportunity to make up his mind on small matters in childhood, he will thus develop the ability to make greater decisions in later years. As the Latter-day Saint mother of today sees confusion about her; as she realistically considers that life involves sickness, and sorrow, and death, she searches for ways to help the child develop courage and strength to meet the storms of life. If the line of communication is kept affectionately open, she will find wise ways of helping him to develop that strength. One of the most important of ways 

789 October 1968

 is to help him know that his Heavenly Father is mindful of the child and his problems and that his earthly parents are ever willing to give counsel and comfort. There are many other mother-to-child responsibilities which remain constant regardless of changing world conditions. WHAT SOME LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMEN SAY With the foregoing enumeration of world conditions in mind, we may consider the comments of some Latter-day Saint women relative to problem situations which some of these conditions create for them. Although each woman needs to resolve her own problem, comments of suggestion often may be helpful. Woman One states: I find it a great challenge, in the light of some present day conditions, such as psychological and social pressures, even opposing views on religion, some quite atheistic, to keep my own "values straight" and my beliefs firm. Question: What advice do you have for this woman? Comment: To be in the world, making use of its opportunities and enjoying its advantages, and yet be "not of the world" requires clear thinking and courage of conviction. The Latter-day Saint woman who feels that this is her particular problem may well remember the assurance obtained through prayer, the guidance and promise of scripture, and the available counsel of the priesthood through appointed leadership of the Church. Activity in organizations of the Church strengthens one's testimony of its divinity. Woman Two: My problem is how to make my life 790 meaningful, now that children move so far away when they marry. I cannot hope to see them or the grandchildren oftener than once or twice a year. How can I build a tangible relationship with my grandchildren? When I was young, my grandmother lived in the same town. She was important to me and I always felt that I was to her. I want to feel useful and needed. Question: If you were this woman how would you meet this problem? Comment: Fortunately for women of middle years with available time, there are many important and needed services within the framework of the Church. Genealogical work for one's own family, and active affiliation with Relief Society are examples. Volunteer work in hospitals, and neighborhood and community service programs also need women who are willing to serve. Woman Three: I am a mother with young children. They were wanted and are loved. However, the numerous opportunities for professional training and gainful employment tei. Pt me to go out of the home and earn money. I don't need to work, but I do not enjoy the routine of house-, work. Question: If you were this woman what would you do? Comment: Dr. Blaine R. Porter states: It is a privilege to live with children. From a Latter-day Saint point of view, our children are also God's children who are lent to us for a little while, during which time we have the pleasure of their company and responsibility of guiding and training them properly. Stop and think of the confidence and trust which God must have in us to allow us the privilege of being responsible for his children. (Blaine R. Porter, The Latter-day Saint Family, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966, p. 267.) President Clark often refers to the importance and responsibility of mothers toward their children. The homemaking discussions in Relief Society also may convince the doubtful mother that housework need not be a dreary routine. Woman Four: My problem is one of frustration, resulting from today's accelerated tempo of living. I feel pulled and pushed in every direction by my _ overscheduled days. I long for the slower pace of yesteryears. The challenge for me, therefore, is to eliminate this feeling of frustration. Question: If you were this woman, how would you meet her problem? Comment: Henry David Thoreau said, "Simplify!" The Latter-day Saint woman may need to appraise and decide which values are of most importance to her and her family. Having made such an appraisal, she may more wisely eliminate certain activities, commitments, and even commodities which encumber her life. More poise, more patience, more time with the family may be the rewarding result. Woman Five: I find it difficult to maintain an attitude of optimism since conversation, newspapers, and television present an almost constant fare of problem situations, and violence. My challenge is not to let this feeling of today's frustrations be reflected in the atmosphere of our home. Question: Were you this woman, what would you do to solve this problem? Comment: The Latter-day Saint woman may take courage in the fact that today is of little moment in the long-range view of the eternities, and in the promise that the gospel will never again be taken from the earth. Activity in the Church Lesson Department for all family members and adherence to gospel teachings will help replace apprehension with faith and optimism. OTHER SPECIFIC PROBLEMS Among conditions most disturbing to Latter-day Saint mothers today is the pressure of irresponsible adults who would exploit the innocence of youth for money. Manifestations of such pressure are the distribution of undesirable, even pornographic reading material, and the sale of harmful drugs. Although using or possessing drugs is illegal, they are available and vigorously "pushed" in many high schools and colleges. No mother can afford to abdicate her parental responsibility and remain complacent on this matter. Tomorrow depends upon the energy, talent, and character of today's children. This is an area where an alert mother, and good communication between child and parent may prevent a problem from developing. Information regarding the effects of harmful drugs is readily available. Family Home Evening discussions may pre-influence young children, and teachers also may help teenage children to understand that no hallucinogenic drugs are safe. All of them involve danger. An unemotional discussion between children and their parents relative to the dangerous use of drugs, in which the children are given the sobering facts regarding this modern day evil, may be warning enough. Parents may well be cautioned regarding the personal use of drugs unless prescribed by a physician. 

791 October 1968

 SUMMARY Latter-day Saint woman, this is your world today: _ spiritual enlightenment, beauty, opportunity, progress; confusion, temptation, uncertainty, and sin. Yet, it is a wonderful day in which to live, this dispensation of the fulness of times, if you receive and will bestow compassion, and the healing of love, if you will wear the whole armor of faith. For Home-Doing Review your major problems. Make some effort toward solving at least one of them.