From Near and Far I cannot express fully the joy and appreciation I received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I thank Sister McKay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. I read this article often, and it cheers me up when I am blue, and makes me feel that I can do better. Marian del Valle Abbeville, Louisiana I thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), I find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature I have ever read. Sally Cheney Santa Rosa, California

From Near and Far

Marian del Valle Abbeville, Louisiana

Sally Cheney Santa Rosa, California

I cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content. I watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although I regret parting from my sisters here, I know that I will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors.

R. May M. Foote Billingham, Teeside, England

Ruth E. Sanford San Francisco, California

Annie C. Esplin Orderville, Utah

How thrilled and proud I was to read in the July 1968 issue of the Magazine (page 558) that one of my mother's poems ("Rain Song," January 1962) is going to be reviewed in the cultural refinement lessons. She is the same Bernice Burton Holmes who won second place in the Relief Society Poetry Contest in 1962. Her daughter-in-law Carol Crane Holmes feels especially honored because, as the cultural refinement class leader in the Woodland, California Ward, she will be privileged to be teaching this lesson when it comes.

Trilby Priest Holmes Brea, California

Renie Moore Hibbert Otto, Wyoming