[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 743 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Miss Gertrude Ramey of Ashland, Kentucky, has mothered more than three thousand abandoned or delinquent children for twenty-four years. In the former county poorhouse, which she converted into a warm, loving home, her guests remain for from a few days to fifteen years. She serves purely from love, with no financial compensation, but with the deepest gratitude of juvenile court judges. Lee Rice, twenty-one, left Ohio State University, where she was a student, joined Vista (Volunteers in Service to America), and with a Vista colleague spent a year in Chalkyitsik, an Athabascan Indian Village of 100 people ten miles inside the Arctic Circle. They taught, trained, and broadened the horizons of the children in many ways and did a great amount of reading to them. Back at the university, she finds her education much more significant than formerly. Dorothy Dunn, a specialist in anthropology and in art also, is author of a valuable book, American Indian Painting of the Southwest and Plains Area (University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, $25.00). With 157 illustrations, the text covers from prehistoric times to the present, including petroglyphs, hide paintings and the works of truly great artists. The Pueblo Indian, she says '"'has perhaps advanced to a nobility of abstract thought attained by only the great minds given to religious contemplation." Dr. Ruth Clark, a former Utahn, with a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California in speech pathology and clinical psychology, was a speech correctionist in Salt Lake City for eight years, then was director of the speech clinic at Denver University for twenty-three years, and is now on a world-wide speaking tour. With much speech therapy, such as learning to speak with alternate muscles after the voice box has been removed, Dr. Clark finds one must alter one's self image (from one of depression to one of faith, for example) before the cure can be wrought. Her psychology is a most useful tool in these cases. Dee Breger of New York, a twenty-five-year-old scientist, specializing in chemical analysis of water, and geophysicist colleague from Australia, Margaret Kay, are included in the otherwise male crew of the Eltanin in a scientific expedition int
