[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 792 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement The Satisfaction of Growth Robert | K. Thomas]
LS SF CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—''The Comfort of Faith'' Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "The saddest thing that can befall a soul is to lose faith in God...." —Alexander Smith Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that a life built around faith brings to a woman greater happiness than a life without faith can bring. Commentary on musical selections by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University: The topic chosen for Lesson 3—The Comfort of Faith—immediately suggests vocal or choral music that sets texts dealing with faith. Since we have attempted to include in our recordings musical selections that are well known tothe sisters, I thought it well to include in this discussion three familiar hymns as sung by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Each of the texts, while dealing with faith, points out different aspects of faith in our daily living. 792 Musical Selections 1. Faith of Our Fathers! Living Still Text by Frederick W. Faber, Music by H. F. Hemy Faith of our fathers! Living still In spite of dungeon, fire and sword: O how our hearts bear high with joy Whene'er we hear that glorious word! Faith of our fathers! Holy faith! We will be true to thee till death! 2. I Know That My Redeemer Lives Text by Samuel Medley, Music by Lewid D. Edwards 3. My Shepherd Will Supply My Need Text is from the 23rd Psalm, Music by Virgil Thompson INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON During the past four years in this series, we have extensively sampled the literature of faith. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 1, Section 2, entitled "Faith in God and Man," pp. 47-107; Volume 1, Section 6, entitled "Facing Death,' pp. 441-482; and Volume 3, Section 6, entitled "The Substance of Faith," pp. 239-282.) All of us through reading, thought, experience, and observation know that faith as a principle is very broad. It includes not only faith in God and his eternal plans but also faith in humanity, faith in husbands, wives, and children, faith in friends, faith in ourselves and our abilities, faith in the future, faith that right will ultimately triumph over wrong. Much has been published exploring faith and its lack; and great men of all kinds have commented upon one or another aspect of faith. For example, William Faulkner Lesson Department in his Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech of 1950 expressed his faith in man and the future: I decline to accept the end of man. It is easy enough to say that man is immortal simply because he will endure.... I believe that man will not merely endure; he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a_ spirit capable of compassion and _ sacrifice and endurance. Andmany yearsearlier Thomas Carlyle in Sartor Resartus, using typically vivid language, described the power of faith to endure: For man's well-being, faith is properly the one thing needful; how, with it, martyrs, otherwise weak, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross; and without it, worldlings puke-up their sick existence, by suicide, in the midst of luxury. Obviously, from among the world's thousands of poems and stories of faith, we can explore here only a sample of them. Perhaps the best place to begin is with the Psalms in the Bible, which almost without exception are lovely poems of faith. Two of the loveliest of the Psalms (songpoems) of David in the Old Testament are Psalms 8 and 23. Read them for the loveliness and faith they contain, acknowledging the power and the love of God. No analysis or commentary seems needful; they speak beautifully to all levels of readers. '""A PSALM OF LIFE" BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream!— For the soul is dead that slumbers, And things are not what they seem. 

793 October 1968

 Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul. Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, Is our destined end or way; But to act, that each tomorrow Find us farther than today. Art is long, and Time is fleeting, And our hearts, though stout and brave, Still, like muffled drums, are beating Funeral marches to the grave. In the world's broad field of battle, In the bivouac of Life, Be not like dumb, driven cattle! Be a hero in the strife! Trust no Future, howe'er pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead! Act,—act in the living Present! Heart within, and God o'erhead! Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Footprints in the sands of time; Footprints, that perhaps another, Sailing o'er life's solemn main, A forlorn and shipwrecked brother, Seeing, shall take heart again. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. DISCUSSION OF ''A PSALM OF LIFE" For over a century one of the most popular poems of faith has been "A Psalm of Life" by the American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807-1882). Although rather out of fashion today, it won masses of new readers for poetry in generations past, and continues to find a responsive appeal in the hearts of many people. Emphasis in the poem, written when Longfellow was only 31, is upon the importance of robust living, with high goals and high energy to achieve them—that is, upon faith in man and his ability to accomplish. Underlying this emphasis, however, is a strong faith in God and a God-controlled universe. For Discussion What elements in this poem would tend to make it more popular among readers in years past than it may be today? "CROSSING THE BAR" BY ALFRED LORD TENNYSON Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar,! When I put out to sea, But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for sound and foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell, When I embark; For though from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar. DISCUSSION OF "CROSSING THE BAR" Best known of Tennyson's short poems is "Crossing the Bar," written in 1889 when he was 81 years old. The poem lives by its lyrical loveliness, and by the quality of its faith—not a sure knowledge, such as a few people have, but a firm hope, which many people share. A few lThe "bar" here referred to is an underwater sand uprising at the mouth of a harbor or river. There is an old folk superstition that the tide moans in grief as it passes over a sandbar when someone has died or is about to die. 794 ARE YOU STORING WHEAT?

Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN Available in two sizes Easy terms - Write for information Headquarters for breadmixers and Corona Wheat Mills SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department days before Tennyson died, in 1892, he instructed that this poem should end all editions of his poetry—a request that has seldom been violated. "UPHILL" BY CHRISTINA ROSSETT! Does the road wind uphill all the way? Yes, to the very end. Will the day's journey take the whole long day? From morn to night, my friend. But is there for the night a restingplace? A roof for when the slow dark hours begin. May not the darkness hide it from my face? You cannot miss that inn. Shall I meet other wayfarers at night? Those who have gone before. Then must I knock, or call when just in sight? They will not keep you standing at that door. Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak? Of labor you shall find the sum. Will there be beds for me and all who seek? Yea, beds for all who come. DISCUSSION OF "UPHILL" Althoughwrittenallegorically, the meaning of this poem will be clear to all readers. Note that it is a conversation poem, with the questions in the first and third lines of each stanza asked by one person and the answers in the second and fourth lines given by another, wiser person— as if the Savior himself were giving reassurance. Class Discussion What is the full meaning of the line "Of labor you shall find the sum." 

795 October 1968

 TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON Of the Mysteries I know only as much of God and the world As a creature with two eyes must; But what I do understand I love, And what I don't understand, I trust. Day-Old Child My day-old child lay in my arms. With my lips against his ear I whispered strongly, "How I wish— I wish that you could hear; "Y've a hundred wonderful things to say (A tiny cough and a nod), Hurry, hurry, hurry and grow So I can tell you about God." My day-old baby's mouth was still And my words only tickled his ear. But a kind of a light passed through his eyes, And I saw this thought appear: "How I wish I had a voice and words; I've a hundred things to say. Before I forget I'd tell you of God— I left Him yesterday." DISCUSSION OF TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON As these two tiny poems delightfully illustrate, Mrs. Pearson has a combination of delicate word-usage with stimulating word-meanings that are both charming in their simplicity and startling in their provocativeness. The poems speak for themselves. "SONNET 29" BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes I ali alone beweep my outcast state, And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries, And look upon myself, and curse my fate, Wishing me like to one more rich in hope, Featured like him, like him with friends possessed, Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope, With what I most enjoy contented least; 796 New Craft Medium __ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of; service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include spostage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah f Zone 1 and 2 - - 55 g@Zone5 _.-_-.7D) Zone3 -~_--.-.60 Zone6 _~__--85 Zone4 _~___-.65 Zone7 _..-- -95 Zone8_- ~~ - -1.05 [a_i PESERET [REwsS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising, Haply I think on thee,—and then my state, Like to the lark at break of day arising From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate; For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings That then I scorn to change my state with kings. DISCUSSION OF SHAKESPEARE'S SONNET 29 This sonnet, is included here to emphasize that one kind of faith is faith in other people. Just thinking of a beloved person, says Shakespeare, can lift one out of a mood of despondency. Some readers may feel that Shakespeare exaggerates the power of love and friendship (in Shakespeare's case the person referred to in the sonnet was a cherished friend); other readers, having known the healing power of love and friendship, will see more meaning in Shakespeare's words. INTRODUCTION TO "WORK WITHOUT HOPE" Up to this point in this lesson we have been exploring various kinds and degrees of faith. Not all literature, of course, expresses faith. To illustrate the despair that results from lack of faith, we turn to "Work Without Hope" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834). Coleridge's problem was not that he did not believe in God, for he was a devout Christian, nor that he did not believe in life after death, for he did, but that he did not believe in himself. "The fearful unbelief is unbelief in yourself," said Carlyle. Lesson Department SILp MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers"' "Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED ~NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Coleridge was a brilliant and gifted man, in many ways the most brilliant and gifted writer of the English romantic movement. But he was also beset with terrible personal insecurity, unhappiness, and lack of self-discipline which resulted in agonizing drug addiction, insomnia, and wrecking of health, both physical and mental. In a moment of despair a few years before his death he wrote "Work Without Hope," one of the most beautiful yet depressive little poems ever written. Here we feel the suffering anguish of a man who has lost faith in himself. Work Without Hope by Samuel Taylor Coleridge All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair— The bees are stirring—birds are on the wing— 

797 October 1968

 And Winter slumbering in the open air, Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring! And I the while, the sole unbusy thing, Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing.: Yet well I ken the banks where amar-. Anths blow, Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow. Bloom, O ye amaranths! Bloom for whom ye may, For me ye bloom not! Glide, rich streams, away! With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll: And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul? Work without Hope draws nectar in a sieve, And Hope without an object cannot live. CONCLUSION The preceding material in this lesson is excerpted from Section 3 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, the section contains fuller commentaries, notes, and questions for discussion on the selections here printed plus the following additional selections, which explore more fully some significant aspects of faith and its lack: 1. Quotation from John F. Kennedy 2. A printing of Psalms 8 and 23 from the Old Testament 3. The morning song from Pippa Passes by Robert Browning 4. "Easter Wings" by George Herbert 5. "Sunflower" by William Blake 6. Three additional poems by Carol Lynn Pearson 7. "Ode to the West Wind" by Percy Bysshe Shelley 8. "The Darkling Thrush" by Thomas Hardy 9. "Invictus" by William Ernest Henley 10., The short story "Christ in Flanders" by Honore de Balzac Only the poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are still under copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted to whatever extent a teacher may desire. All Transportation Good Hotels—Fine Food & Safe Water 12 Meals Famous Railway in the sky Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet, Travel Agency FIESTA TOURS MEXICO Personally Escorted Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969, Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Puebla © Mazatlan and other cities Included: ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Specializing in Mexican Tours Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise, Famous High Divers, Xochimilco, Dancing, etc., Deep Sea Fishing (optional) 13 Archaeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of, Qvuetzalcoatl, Tula, Zochicalco, etc. 798 a. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY cA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or _ ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 799 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee I Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide Inspirational Reading be] THE HOUSE OF THE LORD $1.25 paperbound by James E. Talmage $2.95 clothbound Deseret Book is proud to re-publish in modern format this classic of Church literature by the late scholar and general authority, James E. Talmage. This volume will be an important aid to those who are going to the temple for the first time. It will also bring to all Latter-day Saints a greater appreciation of the significance of temple work in their lives. Ees I OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.60 Surface postage paid anywhere in the world. Vol. IV is the Relief Society Cultural Refinement text for 1968-69, and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." This book contains many items of renowned literature from the pens of noted writers, and makes an ideal volume for the family home library. Se SS eseret 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 32% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me [] THE HOUSE OF THE LORD [] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 717 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA Total Cost $....000 eee Enclosed find check (7), money order (], checked established account (7. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life Insurance can be the foundation of your family's plans for the future. Missions, college, retirement — all depend on financial planning begun now. Your Beneficial Life agent is superbly qualified to advise you on the insurance protection and the insurance income that can make the future take shape just as you planned it.