[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 747 | General Feature | Announcement of Relief Society | Song Contest]
best. A marsh duck flaps in perfect, homing lines And skids across the water with a splash That shatters quiet, then the final hush Settles as the phosphorescent flash Is rippled by the night wind's trembling, lush Rain-scented breath from off the lofty peaks. The answering lake is foil as windsong speaks. —Gladys Hesser Burnham 746 Relief Society S ©) IB. Contest ——————— _—-- i Ft > — General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church.

The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1968-69) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1969. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1969. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1969, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 

747 October 1968

 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work" certifying: a. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society withholds the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. 'The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Bo SF Judges All manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. NN, = — —~ Fal ——— _-.