[Vol55 | October 1968 | Page 744 | General Feature | Editorial The Inspiration That Guides Us | Louise W. Madsen]
[Editorial The Inspiration That Guides Us Louise W. Madsen]

o Antarctica, for the National Science Foundation. Mayla Ann Mitchell, seventeen, Altamont, Utah, high school senior, was among twelve national officers chosen at the convention at Miami Beach, Florida, of the Future Homemakers of America. She will be national reporter during 1968-69. The national membership numbers more than 601,000. Margaret Mead of Goleta, California, and her copilot Billie Herrin, flew 2500 miles in a Bellanca single-engine airplane to win the prize in the twenty-second annual Powder Puff Derby cross country air race. Their average speed was 176.53 miles per hour. 743 Volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor # Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Eisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner lrene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp 744 Celestia J. Taylor Anne RA. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle A. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucite P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma RA. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton ® Inspiration is the divine influence exerted upon the mind and spirit of man. It is one of the ways the Heavenly Father communicates with his children. Inspiration is the power beyond one's limited human capacities which generates the productive ideas and the new thoughts which motivate one most effectively to use his abilities and achieve the maximum from his efforts. The more responsive an individual is the more directly and plainly will he be moved upon by the spirit. The degree of receptivity to inspiration is determined by the mind and heart of him who receives it. Faith, prayer and clear-mindedness are prerequisites. 'The glow of inspiration warms us; it is holy rapture." (Ovid.) Acting under inspiration one's mind becomes alive with ideas and creative thoughts. One of the great gifts from the Creator to his children is the inspiration which produces productive ideas. Paul states that God has prepared great things for man and "hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit'' and, being receptive That Guides Us to the things of God, men may understand and speak, ''Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth."' (1 Cor. 2:10-13.) Those chosen to hold leadership callings and to teach are commanded to ''teach with the Spirit." They will be assisted and guided in the conveyance of the truths they receive through inspiration. The right to receive inspiration for the work is inherent in every calling. The Lord has promised that he will move the spirit within man. ''The inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding."' (Job 32:8.) With this understanding, inner resources are quickened and one's ability to receive and act under inspiration is enlarged. The right to give inspiration is an attribute of leadership. Worthy leaders exert an invigorating influence upon those they lead. Inspiring leaders animate their followers and stir them to effective work. They motivate, arouse interest, and bring the light of understanding as they give inspired direction and counsel. There is, also, a treasury of inspiration in the written word. Men inherit rich legacies of inspiration left by preceding generations. Inspiration may come from the example of other's lives. One's own life may become better ordered and more abundant by observing and adhering to examples of goodness, of righteousness, and dedication. Of vital significance are the successful lives of worthy individuals. The poet has expressed in the words ''Lead, Kindly Light'' the surrender of one's whole mind and soul to the influence of the divine, the good, and the worthy. These words indicate a beautiful dependence upon the Lord to guide and a willingness to accept such guidance. The placing of one's hand in God's, one's heart in his service, one's mind in readiness, prepare one to receive his inspiration. Each one seeking inspiration in his calling or his daily life should be able to say ''Lead, Kindly Light' and I will follow. —L. W. M.