[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | Unknown | Issue: 16 | Title: ANSWER TO W. W. PHELPS. | Author: Unknown]

ANSWER TO W. W. PHELPS.
(Go With Me.)

I WILL go, I will go, to the home of the Saints,
	Where the virtue’s the value, and life the
		reward;
But before I return to my former estate
	I must fulfill the mission I had from the Lord.

Wherefore, hear, O ye heavens, and give ear O
		ye earth;
	And rejoice ye inhabitants truly again;
For the Lord he is God, and his life never ends,
	And besides him there ne’er was a Savior
		of men.

His ways are a wonder; his wisdom is great;
	The extent of his doings there’s none can un-
		veil;
His purposes fail not; from age unto age
	He still is the same, and his years never fail.

His throne is the heavens, his lifetime is all
	Of eternity now and eternity then;
His union is power, and none stays his hand,—
	The Alpha, Omega, for ever: Amen.

For thus saith the Lord, in the spirit of truth,
	I am merciful, gracious, and good unto those
That fear me, and live for the life that’s to come;
	My delight is to honor the saints with repose;

That serve me in righteousness true to the end;
	Eternal’s their glory and great their reward;
I’ll surely reveal all my mysteries to them,—
	The great hidden mysteries in my kingdom
		stored—

From the council in Kolob, to time on the earth
	And for ages to come unto them I will show
My pleasure and will, what my kingdom will do;
	Eternity’s wonders they truly shall know.

Great things of the future I’ll show unto them,
	Yea, things of the vast generations to rise;
For their wisdom and glory shall be very great,
	And their pure understanding extend to the
		skies:

And before them the wisdom of wise men shall
		cease,
	And the nice understanding of prudent ones
		fail!
For the light of my spirit shall light mine elect,
	And the truth is so mighty’t will every prevail.

And the secrets and plans of my will I’ll reveal;
	The sanctified pleasures when earth is renewed,
What the eye hath not seen, nor the ear hath yet
		heard;
	Nor the heart of the natural man ever hath
		viewed.

[Column 2]
I, Joseph, the prophet, in spirit beheld,
	And the eye of the inner man truly did see
Eternity sketched in a vision from God,
	Of what was, and now is, and yet is to be.

Those things which the Father ordained of old,
	Before the world was, or a system had run,—
Through Jesus the Maker and Savior of all;
The only begotten, (Messiah) His Son.

Of whom I bear record, as all prophets have,
	And the record I bear is the fulness,—yea even
The truth of the Gospel of Jesus—the Christ,
	With whom I conversed in the vision of heaven

For while in the act of translating his word,
	Which the Lord in his grace had appointed to
		me,
I came to the gospel recorded by John,
	Chapter fifth and the twenty-ninth verse which
		you’ll see.
	Which was given as follows:

“Speaking of the resurrection of the dead,—
“Concerning those who shall hear the voice of
“the son of man—
“And shall come forth:
“They who have done good in the resurrection
“of the just.
“And they who have done evil in the resurrection
“of the unjust.”

I marveled at these resurrections, indeed!
	For it came unto me by the spirit direct:—
And while 1 did meditate what it all meant,
	The Lord touched the eye of my own inte-
		lect:—

Hosanna forever! they opened anon,
	And the glory of God shone around where I
		was;
And there was the Son, at the Father’s right
		hand,
	In fulness of glory, and holy applause.

I beheld round the throne holy angels and hosts,
	And sanctified beings from worlds that have
		been,
In holiness worshipping God and the Lamb,
	For ever and ever, amen and amen !

And now after all of the proofs made of him,
	By witnesses truly, by whom he was known,
This is mine, last of all, that he lives; yes he
		lives!
	And sits at the right hand of God on his throne.

And I heard a great voice bearing record from
		heaven,
	He’s the Savior, and only begotten of God—
By him, of him, and through him, the worlds
		were all made,
	Even all that career in the heavens so broad.

Whose inhabitants, too, from the first to the last,
	Are saved by the very same Savior of ours;
And, of course, are begotten God’s daughters
		and sons,
	By the very same truths, and the very same
		powers.

And I saw and bear record of warfare in heaven;
	For an angel of light in authority great,
Rebelled against Jesus, and sought for his power
	But was thrust down to woe from his Godified
		state. 

And the heavens all wept, and the tears dropped
		like dew,
	That Lucifer, son of the morning had fell!

[Column 3]
Yea, is fallen! is fallen, and become, Oh, alas!
	The son of perdition; the devil of hell!
And while I was yet in the spirit of truth,
	The commandment was: write ye the vision all
		out;
For Satan, old serpent, the devil’s for war,—
	And yet will encompass the saints round about.

And I saw. too, the suffering and misery of those,
	(Overcome by the devil, in warfare and fight,)
In hell-fire, and vengeance; the doom of the
		damned;
	For the Lord said, the vision is further: so
		write.

For thus saith the Lord, now concerning all those
	Who know of my power and partake of the
		same;
And suffer themselves, that they be overcome
	By the power of Satan; despising my name:—

Defying my power, and denying the truth;—
	They are they—of the world, or of men most
		forlorn,
The sons of Perdition, of whom, ah! I say,
	’T were better for them had they never been
		born!

They’re vessels of wrath, and dishonor to God,
	Doomed to suffer his wrath in the regions of
		woe,
Through the terrific night of eternity’s round;
	With the devil and all of his angels below:

Of whom it is said, no forgiveness is given, 
	In this world, alas! nor the world that’s to
		come;
For they have denied the spirit of God,
	After having received it: and misery’s their
		doom.

And denying the only begotten of God,—
	And crucify him to themselves, as they do,
And openly put him to shame in their flesh.
	By gospel they cannot repentance renew.

They are they, who must go to the great lake of
		fire,
	Which burneth with brimstone, yet never
		consumes,
And dwell with the devil, and angels of his, 
	While eternity goes and eternity comes.

They are they, who must groan through the great
		second death,
	And are not redeemed in the time of the Lord;
While all the rest are, through the triumph of
		Christ,
	Made partakers of grace by the power of his
		word.

The mystery of Godliness truly is great;—
	The past, and the present, and what is to be;
And this is the gospel!—glad tidings to all,
	Which the voice from the heavens bore record
		to me.

That he came to the world in the middle of time
	To lay down his life for his friends and his foes,
And bear away sin as a mission of love:
	And sanctify earth for a blessed repose.

’Tis decreed that he’ll save all the work of his
		hands,
	And sanctify them by his own precious blood;
And purify earth for the Sabbath of rest,
	By the agent of fire, as it was by the flood.


[Column 1]
The Savior will save all his Father did give, 
	Even all that he gave in the regions abroad,
Save the sons of perdition: They,re lost; ever
		lost,
	And can never return to the presence of God.
They are they, who must reign with the devil in 
		hell,
	In eternity now, and eternity then,
Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not
		quenched;—
	And the punishment still is eternal. Amen.
And which is the torment apostates receive,
	But the end, or the place where the torment
		began,
Save to them who are made to partake of the 
		same,
	Was never, nor will be, revealed unto man. 
Yet God shows by vision a glimpse of their fate,
	And straightway he closes the scene that was
		shown:
So the width, or the depth, or the misery thereof,
	Save to those that partake, is forever unknown
And while I was pondering, the vision was closed.
	And the voice said to me, write the vision for
		lo!
’Tis the end of the scene of the sufferings of 
		those,
	Who remain filthy still in their anguish and woe.
And again I bear record of heavenly things,
	Where virtue’s the value above all’s that’s
		priced—
Of the truth of the gospel concerning the just,
	That rise in the first resurrection of Christ.
Who received and believed, and repented Iike- 
		wise,
	And then were baptized, as a man always was,
Who asked and received a remission of sin,
	And honored the kingdom by keeping its laws.
Being buried in water as Jesus had been,
	And keeping the whole of his holy commands,
They received the gift of the spirit of truth,
	By the ordinance truly of laying on hands. 
For these evermore, by their faith and their 
		works,
	Being tried in their life-time, as purified gold, 
And sealed by the spirit of promise, to life,
	By men called of God, as was Aaron of old.
They are they, of the church of the first born of
		God,—
	And unto whose hands he commiteth all things;
For they hold the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
	And reign with the Savior, as priests and as 
		kings.
They’re priests of the order of Melchisedek,
	Like Jesus (from whom is this highest reward,)
Receiving a fullness of glory and light;
	As written: they’re Gods; even sons of the 
		Lord.
So all things are theirs; yes, of life, or of death;
	Yes, whether things now, or to come, all are
		theirs,
And they are the Savior’s, and he is the Lord’s,
	Having overcome all, as eternity’s heirs.
’Tis wisdom that man never glory in man, 
	But give God the glory for all that he hath;
For the righteous will walk in the presence of 
		God,
	While the wicked are trod under foot in his 
		wrath.
Yea, the righteous shall dwell in the presence of
		God,
	And Jesus, forever, from earth’s second birth— 
For when he comes down in the splendor of 
		heaven,
	All these he’ll bring with him, to reign on the
		earth.

[Column 2]
These are they that arise in their bodies of flesh,
	When the trump of the first resurrection shall 
		sound;
These are they that come up to Mount Zion in 
		life,
	Where the blessings and gifts of the spirit
		abound.
These are they that have come to the heavenly
		place;
	To the numberless courses of angels above:
To the city of God; e’en the holiest of all,
	And the home of the blessed, the fountain of 
		love:
To the church of old Enoch, and of the first born;
	And general assembly of ancient renowned,
Whose names are all kept in the archives of
		heaven,
	As chosen and faithful, and fit to be crowned.
These are they that are perfect throngh Jesus’
		own blood, 
	Whose bodies celestial are mentioned by Paul,
Where the sun is the typical glory thereof,
	And God and his Christ, are the true judge of
		all.
Again I beheld the terrestrial world,
	In the order and glory of Jesus, go on;
’T was not as the church of the first born of God,
	But shone in its place, as the moon to the sun. 
Behold, these are they that have died without 
		law;
	The heathen of ages that never had hope,
And those of the region and shadow of death,
	The spirits in prison, that light has brought up.
To the spirits in prison the Savior once preached,
	And taught them the gospel, with powers
		afresh;
And then were the living baptized for the dead,
	That they might be judged as if men in the 
		flesh.
These are they that are honorable men of the 
		earth;
	Who were blinded and duped by the cunning
		of men:
They received not the truth of the Savior at first;
	But did when they heard it in prison again.
Not valiant for truth they obtained not the crown,
	But are of that glory that’s typed by the moon:
They are they, that come into the presence of 
		Christ,
	But not to the fulness of God, on his throne. 
Again I beheld the telestial as third, 
	The lesser, or starry world, next in its place.
For the leaven must leaven three measures of meal
	And every knee bow that is subject to grace. 
These are they that received not the gospel of
		Christ,
	Or evidence, either, that he ever was;
As the stars are all different in glory and light,
	So differs the glory of these by the laws. 
These are they that deny not the spirit of God, 
	But are thrust down to hell, with the devil, for
		sins,
As hypocrites, liars, whoremongers and thieves,
	And stay ’til the last resurrection begins.
’Til the Lamb shall have finished the work he 
		begun;
	Shall have trodden the wine press in fury
		alone,
And overcome all by the power of his might:
	He conquers to conquer and save all his own.
These are they that receive not a fulness of light, 
	From Christ, in eternity's world where they are,
The terrestrial sends them the Comforter, though;
	And ministering angels to happify there.

[Column 3]
And so the telestial is ministered to,
	By ministers from the terrestrial one,
As terrestrial is, from the celestial throne;
	And the great, greater, greatest seem stars,
		moon, and sun. 
And thus I beheld in the vision of heaven, 
	The telestial glory, dominion and bliss, 
Surpassing the great understanding of men,—
	Unknown, save revealed, in a world vain as
		this.
And lo, I beheld the terrestrial too, 
	Which excels the telestial in glory and light, 
In splendor, and knowledge, and wisdom, and
		joy,
	In blessings, and graces, dominion and might. 
I beheld the celestial, in glory sublime:
	Which is the most excellent kingdom that is,—
Where God, e’en the Father, in harmony reigns;
	Almighty, supreme, and eternal, in bliss. 
Where the church of the first born in union reside, 
	And they see as they’re seen, and they know 
		as they’re known;
Being equals in power, dominion and might,
	With a fulness of glory and grace, round his 
		throne.
The glory celestial is one like the sun;
	The glory terrestrial is one like the moon;
The glory telestial is one like the stars,
	And all harmonize like the parts of a tune. 
As the stars are all different in lustre and size, 
	So the telestial region is mingled in bliss;
From least unto greatest, and greatest to least,
	The reward is exactly as promised in this. 
These are those that come out for Apollos and 
		Paul;
	For Cephas and Jesus, in all kinds of hope;
Enoch and Moses, and Peter and John;
	For Luther and Calvin, and even the Pope. 
For they never received the gospel of Christ. 
	Nor the prophetic spirit that came from the 
		Lord;
Nor the covenant either, which Jacob once had;
	They went their own way, and they have their
		reward.
By the order of God, last of all, these are they, 
	That will not be gathered with saints here
		below,
To be caught up to Jesus, and meet in the
		cloud:—
	In darkness they worshipped; to darkness they
		go.
These are they that are sinful, the wicked at large,
	That glutted their passion by meanness or 
		worth;
All liars, adulterers, sorcerers, and proud;
And suffer, as promised, God’s wrath on the
		earth.
These are they that must suffer the vengeance of
		hell,
	’Til Christ shall have trodden all enemies
		down,
And perfected his work in the fulness of times:
	And is crowned on his throne with his glorious
		crown. 
The vast multitude of the telestial world—
	As the stars of the skies, or the sands of the
		sea;—
The voice of Jehovah echoed far and wide, 
	Every tongue shall confess, and they all bow 
		the knee. 
Every man shall be judged by the works of his
		life,
	And receive a reward in the mansions pre-
		pared;
For his judgments are just, and his works never
		end,
	As his prophets and servants have always de-
		clared.


But the great things of God, which he showed
		unto me,
	Unlawful to utter, I dare not declare;
They surpass all the wisdom and greatness of 
		men,
	And only are seen, as has Paul, where they 
		are,
I will go, I will go, while the secret of life,
	Is blooming in heaven, and blasting in hell;
Is leaving on earth, and a budding in space;—
	I will go, I will go, with you, brother, fare-
		well!
					JOSEPH SMITH.
Nauvoo Feb. 1843


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SLAVERY AS A NATIONAL QUES-
TION.

(Concluded.)
	The opposition to Texas coming into
the Union was mainly from the northeast,
the west, free states as well as slave states,
favored the movement. The Democrats
favored, the Whigs opposed.
	In 1844 the abolitionists had formed into
the Liberty party and ran Birney for presi-
dent, they polled about 60,000 votes
and so defeated Henry Clay, they simply
played into the hands of Calhoun and became
his willing accomplices, says Rosevaelt
“The Liberty party that ran Birney com-
mitted a political crime, they in no way
paved the way for the Republican party or
helped the anti-slavery cause.” The
Republican party would never have med-
dled with slavery, say’s the same writer,
but a war measure made it necessary.
	The men who made the effective fight
were men who stayed in their party lines,
Democrats like Benton and Wilmot, or
Whigs like Seward and Stevens. Like all
other men who really had a great influence
for good or bad on American politics, they
did not fight independently of parties, but
stayed strictly in party lines. From 1844
the slavery question became the “para-
mount issue,” dwarfing all others.
	The cause of Benton’s downfall was his
courage in defending the Missouri compro-
mise bill from the attacks of Southern slave
holders. The type of Southerners that
prevailed before the Revolution and the
type just before the Rebellion were two
different things. The admission of Missouri
was not completed until 1821; then the
question of slavery sunk out of sight for
fifteen years, but when it reappeared it
came to stay, until Lincoln’s emancipation
proclamation blotted it off the face of civili-
zation..
	Jackson’s struggle with the nullification
movement in South Carolina had nothing
to do with the slave question, it was the
tariff, and the tariff lines were not the slav-
ery lines. Dallas points out in the Senate
“that the South falling back with the
North was not due to slavery, but rather to
tariff.”
	Polk succeeded Tyler in 1845, Congress
had a strong Democratic majority. Texas
came into the Union, Polk thought that by
payment of money Mexico might let us
have land beyond the boundary of the Rio
Grande, then came the question “What
would be the Social and Labor System of
this new territory?” Louisiana—in so doing
Missouri had come to us slave holding from
France, Florida the same from Spain, Ala-
bama and Mississippi in like manner under
the laws from North Carolina and Georgia
from which states they were cut off.

[Column 2]
Texas had been colonized by Southerners
but Mexico twenty years before had
abolished slavery, and every acre that she
ceded to us beyond the Rio Grande would
come in as free soil. The burning question
was “should she remain free, or come in as
a slave state?” If a protest was not enter-
ed it was feared Polk would take Calhoun’s
views “that slavery went into every rod
of Federal territory when not excluded by
positive laws”
	David Wilmot M. C. from Penn., intro-
duced the following bill, it carried in this
House but failed in the Senate.
WILMOT PROVISO.
	Provided, That as an express or funda-
mental condition to the acquisition of any
territory from the Republic of Mexico by the
United States, by virtue of any treaty that
may be negotiated between them, and to
the use by the executive of the moneys
herein appropriated, neither slavery nor in-
voluntary servitude shall ever exist in any
part of said territory except for crime
whereof the party shall first be duly con-
victed.
	Although the Wilmot Proviso failed, it
marked a new policy soon to be victorious.
	Gov. Seward declared In 1850 that slav-
ery was the great living issue between the
national parties.
	Texas was the last slave state that ever
came into the Union. Then came in 1850
a group of compromises. The Missouri
compromise had fixed the lines in 1820 and
took the parallel of 36° 30’ as the dividing
line, prohibiting slavery north of it, it
settled the slave question for thirty years.
The credit of this belongs to Henry Clay.
	When California asked for admittance
into the Union, a large part of her land lay
south of this line, the South demanded
some equivalent for her coming in as a free
state. So Utah (including Nevada) and
New Mexico (including Arizona) were
organized without the Wilmot Proviso, and
the slave trade was abolished in the Dis-
trict of Columbia in return; stringent laws
were passed for the arrest of fugitive slaves
in the Northern States..
	In place of settling, the compromises
of 1850 only stirred up the slavery question.
Clay and Webster were dead, Seward,
Chase and Sumner took their places.
Calhoun was dead and Jefferson Davis
came to the front.
	The Kansas-Nebraska Bill gave occa-
sion for the South to try and repeal the
Missouri Compromise. Stephen Doug-
las to quiet the agitation advocated
that the New Territories themselves settle
the slavery question as to their own terri-
tories. Through his efforts the Missouri
Compromise was repealed in 1854, and
Squatter Sovereignty ruled in Kansas and
Nebraska, many voting for the bill upon
the grounds that this would forever end the
slavery question, but in fact it solidified the
North and South against each other and
led to the civil war. The Northerners who
opposed slavery extension, organized under
the name of the anti-Nebraska and later
of Republican party. This party was made
up of anti-slavery Democrats, Whigs,
and of Free Soilers, and their principles
based upon the Wilmot Proviso, the
absolute prohibition of slavery in the
territories. It did not propose to attack
slavery in the slave states, and for this
reason the abolitionists as a rule did not
join it.

[Column 3]
	The pro-slavery Whigs joined with the
Democrats. Through bitterness and blood-
shed Kansas and Nebraska were brought
into the Union as free states, the fight
lasted from 1855 to 1858.
	The election of 1856 showed that the
South was upheld by Northern Democrats,
but the large vote for Fremont by a party
not two years old alarmed the South, they
threatened secession in event of a Repub-
lican victory.
	The South aided by the “Dough Faces”
led by Buchanan and Pierce became so
aggressive by their extreme policy that
a great body of northern Democrats left
them and joined with the Rebublicans.
	The Dred Scott decision in 1857 would
make the whole area of United States soil
slave territory.
	In 1857 the slave trade was resumed
openly. Buchanan and a small party tried
to force from Kansas a slave Constitution
known as the “Lacompton Constitution,”
it failed and in so doing made the gaps be-
tween Buchanan and Douglas, this split the
Northern Democrats.
	In the famous debates between Lincoln
and Douglas in 1858 the opinions expressed
by Douglas against the Dred Scott decision
made him unacceptable to the South and
resulted in the election of Lincoln in 1860.
	The John Brown raid was in Oct. 1859
with twenty men he attacked the arsenal at
Harper’s Ferry to get arms to set up an
asylum in the hills beyond, where fugitive
slaves might find a retreat; the attack found
little sympathy in the North, but it influ-
enced the South with horrors of negro
insurrection. The Republican party of
1860 put “prohibition of slavery in the
territories,” in their platform.
	When the South seceded all the slave
states did not join them. The Vice-Presi-
dent Alexander Stephens declared that
slavery was its corner stone.
	England did not recognize the South,
not that she loved the North but she had
been fighting slavery for years wherever
her fleets sailed.
	The Northern Democrats loyally support-
ed Lincoln	Lincoln Sep. 22, 1862 issued
the famous Emancipation proclamation to
take effect Jan. 1863. This proclamation
was issued solely as a war measure, to
weaken the enemy and to prevent England
interfering in giving aid to the South.
		(MRS.) I. CAMERON BROWN.


