LESSONS FOR JUNE 207
LESSON 3
Literature (Third Week in June)
MARTHA GILBERT DICKINSON BIANCHI
Martha Bianchi, author of "The Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson," and daughter of William Austin and Susan Huntington Gilbert Dickinson, was born in Amherst, Massachusetts. After receiving her education at Miss Porter's school, Farmington, Connecticut, she spent some time in traveling. She was married in 1903 to Captain Alexander E. Bianchi. Mrs. Bianchi is the author of a number of poems and novels, also a contributor of articles to several of the magazines, including "Scribner's," "The Atlantic Monthly," and "Century." She was opposed to woman suffrage.
This brief sketch was taken from an Encyclopaedia.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF EMILY DICKINSON
By Her Niece?Martha Dickinson Bianchi
Emily Dickinson, "one of the most original intelligences and possibly the greatest woman poet of modern times, was born in Amherst, Massachusetts, December 10, 1830. She was a physical as well as a spiritual hermit, actually spending most of her life without setting her foot beyond her own doorstep. She wrote her short, introspective verses without thought of publication; and it was not until 1890, four years after her death, that the first volume of her posthumous poetry appeared, with an introduction by Thomas Wentworth Higginson." "That her work will last longer than the work of the majority of her ?or our?generation is, I think, indubitable. That it is sometimes erratic, half done, and thrown off with no thought of publication, in need of the finisher's file, is also, I believe, self-evident. But in the greater number of the poems, the leap of thought is so daring, the gaps so thrilling, that moments which, in a lesser spirit, would have turned to pretty or audacious conceits become startling snatches of revelation." * * * "It is no secret that Emily Dickinson fell in love with a man already married, that she renounced her love, and withdrew from the world. (The poem entitled "The Soul Selects" is evidently autobiographical commentary.) We give it here:
THE SOUL SELECTS
The soul selects her own society, Then shuts the door; On her divine majority Obtrude no more.
Unmoved she notes the chariots pausing At her low gate; Unmoved, an emperor is kneeling Upon her mat.
I've known her from an ample nation Choose one; Then close the valves of her attention Like stone.
"In 1884 she was stricken, like her father, with Bright's disease. Two years later, on May 16, 1886, at Amherst, this woman with 'the
208
soul of a monk of the Middle Ages bound up in the flesh of a Puritan' died, after a life devoid of outward adventure. Few were present at the funeral; fewer still dreamed that she would outlive the obituary in the Springfield Republican. Today her place is secure; her work is definitely
Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
?Notes from a brief biography by Louis Untermeyer.
Those who are assigned to give this lesson should bear in mind that they are not to present especially Emily Dickinson, or her poetry, but particularly "The Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson," by Martha Dickinson Bianchi, a niece of the poetess. Though the book is a large one, on account of the nature of its contents it is one of the easiest of the course to give, for the reason that the reviewer can find so many quotable passages, more or less unattached, which will not only reveal Emily Dickinson herself, but Mrs. Bianchi and her book.
The volume consists of two parts: "Her Life," and "Her Letters." The first part?"Her Life"?is divided into eight chapters: 1. Ancestry; 2. Childhood; 3. School Days; 4. Social Life at Amherst Seventy Years Ago; 5. The End of Peace; 6. A Hedge Away; 7. Later Years From Friends and Books; 8. Her Religion. The second part consists of her letters to various people, in which many of her pert little bits of verse appear.
In this volume Martha Bianchi has done a very creditable piece of work. She has given us an intimate, spritely, delicate picture of her aunt, who, little known during her life time, has come to rank high among American poets. Mrs. Bianchi, possessed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
evidently of some of Emily Dickinson's spirit, has given us a sparkling picture of the little girl who lived and wrote and loved nearly a century ago.
In giving reason for producing the book, the author in a prefatory note says: "A high exigence constrains the sole survivor of her family to state her simply and truthfully, in view of a public which has, doubtless without intention, misunderstood and exaggerated her seclusion?amassing a really quite voluminous stock of quite lurid misinformation of irrelevant personalities. She has been taught in colleges as a weird recluse, rehearsed to women's clubs as a love-lorn sentimentalist?even betrayed by one American essayist of repute to appear a fantastic eccentric.
"On the other hand, she has been named 'the feminine Walt Whitman' in at least one of the great universities; in another?
Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
That Mrs. Bianchi has succeeded in stating her simply there can be little doubt; but how truthfully it is as yet impossible to say. If by truthfully the author meant that she expected to tell the whole truth, then certainly she has fallen short, for there are many recesses in Emily Dickinson's mind and heart into which the reader is not allowed to glance, let alone look with anything like understanding. Mrs. Bianchi, however, is frank enough to admit that her aunt, in spiritual qualities, at least, was too much for her limited pen and her unlimited love. She says: "However the present volume may lift the veil, or presume to lead her shy reality into the light of mortal dawns again, Emily alone supplies the only
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE
clue to herself, ? articles of her faith?
"The Soul's superior instants Occur to her alone, When friend and earth's occasion Have infinite withdrawn.
"Or she, herself, ascended To too remote a height, For lower recognition Than her omnipotent.
"This mortal abolition Is seldom, but as fair As apparition?subject To autocratic air.
"Eternity's disclosure To favorites, few, Of the Colossal substance Of Immortality."
That poem, to be understood must be thought over?dreamed over? for it, too, is of the "substance of immortality." She is evidently trying to voice a truth which hung frequently about Emerson and others of the great philosophers that only when earth and friends and time have withdrawn infinitely away does one see the superior quality?or immortality if you will?of the soul. Lorado Taft attempted the same poem in stone in his magnificent group "The Solitude of the Soul." Mrs. Bianchi is acknowledging that it is quite impossible for a biographer to reveal the soul of one who can only catch glimpses of her own greater self at intervals. The person, she says in other words, sometimes "ascends to too great height" for common mortal recognition and that, therefore, those heights cannot be chronicled because they can be so indistinctly understood in common moments.
One thinks of the apostles and Jesus. They could understand Jesus, the man, rather well; Jesus
209
the God they could not understand at all. That is, whenever Jesus was "transfigured before them" the apostles were simply dumb or?slept.
Mrs. Bianchi makes further excuses by saying: "The essential difficulty in presenting a Life of Emily Dickinson has been enhanced by the sacred pact observed with her chosen few, that all letters should be burned after her death. This excludes exactly those which might have held together the frail external incidents of her days, which seem so scantily supplied to those ignorant of the thronging events of the Spirit which eternally preoccupied her."
Those letters, no doubt, suggested the recesses of her life which the poetess preferred should remain in at least partial shadow. To one of Martha Bianchi's temperament, as expressed in her spritely book, a hint was evidently sufficient. We, therefore, close the volume, believing the tender niece who knew her aunt for many years, might have given us much more had she not feared breaking faith with the dead.
But turning more directly to the biography we read: "Emily Dickinson's ancestry is distinctly traced in nine generations in America." "Her local ancestry settled in old Hadley, and a later generation was one of the founders of the church and town of Amherst. There were Dickinsons mentioned in Hadley among the first settlers of the original Indian grants in 1659." By that we learn that Emily's progenitors were among the first arrivals in America and that she is in a very real sense an American poet.
Her father was a lawyer practicing in Amherst, Massachusetts, a graduate of Yale University. Her mother "was an exquisite little lady of the old school long passed into mythology." She was the daughter
210
of Alfred Norcross, of Monson. "The family was well-to-do and she was educated and finished off at a school for young ladies at New Haven, very much in repute in her day.
Upon her marriage, no railroad then reaching Amherst, her dower was brought by several yoke of brindle oxen?"
"Emily Norcross Dickinson feared and honored her husband after the manner of the Old Testament. She trembled and flushed, obeyed and was silent before him. He was to her Jehovah, and she was to him the sole being to whom he intrusted the secrets of his inmost heart. His letters to her were discreet, respectful, 'frosty but kindly'?ending always with the assurance of his remaining her 'most ob't servant, Edward Dickinson.'"
"It is impossible to derive Emily from either her stately father or her fluttering little mother, always timorous, always anxious. Treasured among the daughter's most cherished papers, was found the little yellow certificate of her mother's exemplary conduct as a girl at school:
"Miss Emily Norcross, for punctual attendance, close application, good acquirements, and discreet behavior merits the approbation of her preceptress.
"E, P. DUTCH."
"And out of this human stock and precision of living came the little girl whose soul flew up and away like the smoke from the high chimneys of her home under the tall pines."
It is with such delightfully "different" notes as those that this book abounds, indicating that Martha Bianchi inherited much of the birdlike quality of her relative.
"Emily Norcross Dickinson, named for her mother, was born December 11, 1830, in Amherst, Massachusetts, in the old house said to have been the first erected of brick in Amherst."
"Her brother Austin, (Martha Dickinson Bianchi's father) and her younger sister Lavinia, were the other children of the home, both possessed of marked ability and varied temperament."
The chapter dealing with Emily's childhood here must be passed by with the mere mention that the author calls attention to the fact that Helen Fisk, later known as Helen Hunt, the poetess, was one of the Dickinsons' favorite playmates. Her school days and her social life must also be skipped, although the reviewer in class might well spend some time by quoting from both of those chapters.
Then came her unfortunate love affair over which her niece passes so lightly and delicately, but which, in all probability, had much to do with giving us one of our greatest American poetesses and perhaps one of the world's greatest. A glimpse of her tragedy and the manner in which she met it are given in one of her letters quoted on page 49 and followed by some verses. They run:
"Susan?We both are women and there is a Will of God; Could the dying confide Death. There would be no dead. Wedlock is shyer than death. Thank you for tenderness.
"And during her first ecstasy of renunciation:
"Title divine is mine The life without The Sign. Acute degree Conferred on me? Empress of Calvary. Royal, all but the Crown? Betrothed, without the Swoon God gives us Women When two hold Garnet to garnet Gold to gold? Born?Bridaled? Shrouded? In a day Tri-Victory? 'My Husband' Women say, Stroking the melody, Is this the way? Emily."
The author follows with a word portrait of her subject taken from the preface to one of her volumes of poetry?"The Single Hound." This could well be read in class. It closes with the very apt statement:
Fascination was her element. "She was not daily bread; she was star dust. Her solitude made her and was part of her."
The chapter entitled: "A Hedge Away" is filled full of intimate little glimpses of Emily and her new love, "Sister Sue" or "Sister Susan," her brother Austin's wife. The flashes on pages 60 and 61 would be interesting to the class and also illuminating.
It is in the discussion of Emily Dickinson's religion that her niece reveals her own power best. Caught by the spritely, one might say almost irreverent, flashes of the poetess, the author reveals an insight into true religion that is definitely refreshing. She senses the shortcomings of the creeds, and in Emily's quiet little flings discovers a deeper, more beautiful religion, which is, after all, the religion of the Master. Love is at its heart? not fear, not sham, not preachments, merely Love unfeigned.
211
Then came the end. Her biographer writes: "While her work still fascinated her, there came a morning in June, 1884, when without warning Emily was smitten as her father before her, and though she lived for two years after, "The green world went on a sudden blind," and it was impossible for her to write more than an occasional penciled note. She wrote her sister at this time, 'You must let me go first, Sue, because I live in the sea always now, and know the road!'
"It was on May 16, 1886, that her family gave her back to immortality with a strange relief, as of setting a winged thing free. At the simple funeral in the old house, Colonel Higginson read a poem of Emily Bronte's, the last words she ever wrote, prefacing it by saying: "This poem on Immortality was a favorite of Emily Dickinson who has just put it on?if she could ever have been said to have put it off."
The poem might well be read to the class as a statement of her religion. The tribute of her brother's wife ?the Sister Sue of her love?is rather fine and might well be quoted in part. Among other things she said: "A Damascus blade gleaming and glancing in the sun was her wit. Her swift poetic rapture was like the long glistening note of a bird one hears in the June woods at high noon, but can never see. Like a magician she caught the shadowy apparitions of her brain and tossed them in startling picturesqueness to her friends, who, charmed with their simplicity and homeliness as well as profundity, fretted that she had so easily made palpable the tantalizing fancies forever eluding their bungling, fettered grasp.... How
212
better note the flight of this 'soul of fire in a shell of pearl' than by her own words?
"Morns like these we parted; Noons like these she rose; Fluttering first then firmer, To her fair repose.?S. H. D."
Interesting are all the letters. The one who gives the lesson may select almost at random and find something illuminating and interesting, on account of that "difference" which is the spark of genius. Here are two examples:
To Colonel T. W. Higginson, August, 1874.
"When I think of my father's lonely life and lonelier death there is this redress?
"Take all away, The only thing worth larceny Is left?the Immortality.
"My earliest friend wrote me the week he died, 'If I live, I will go to Amherst; if I die, I certainly will.'
"Is your house deeper off?
"Your Scholar."
To the same, June, 1875.
"Dear Friend,?Mother was paralyzed Tuesday, a year from the evening father died. I thought perhaps you would care.
"Your Scholar."
"A death-blow is a life-blow to some Who, till they died, did not alive become; Who, had they lived, had died, but when They died, vitality begun."
In one of her letters to her nieces she said this so succinctly:
"A word left careless on a page May consecrate an eye, When folded in perpetual seam The wrinkled author lie."
And again: "Life is a spell so exquisite that everything conspires to break it."
Letters. On pages 292, 293, 306, 397, and 336 seem to me to be especially fraught with great "imaginings."
Questions and Problems
1. Locate Amherst, Massachusetts, on a map, giving some approximate distances from New Haven and Cambridge.
2. Why was it quite impossible for the author to state Emily Dickinson full "truthfully."
3. What are your reactions to the poem, beginning, "The Soul's Superior Instants?" Do you ever sense "Superior instants?" Do you think they are common with humanity?
4. Discuss the two little poems "Take All Away" and the one "A death-blow is a Life-blow."
5. Bring to class any poems of Emily Dickinson that may have been especially helpful or interesting to you.
6. Quote some of Mrs. Bianchi's most effective passages.
7. Discuss Mr. Higginson's statement: "This poem on Immortality was a favorite of Emily Dickinson, who has just put it on?if she could ever have been said to have put it off." What is the significance of his words?
Interesting Poems by Emily Dickinson
EXPERIENCE
I stepped from plank to plank So slow and cautiously; The stars about my head I felt, About my feet the sea.
I knew not but the next Would be my final inch,? This gave me that precarious gait Some call experience.
LOST FAITH
To lose one's faith surpasses The loss of an estate, Because estates can be Replenished,?faith cannot.
Inherited with life, Belief but once can be; Annihilate a single clause, And Being's beggary.
Who has not found the heaven below Will fail of it above. God's residence is next to mine, His furniture is love.
ASPIRATION
We never know how high we are Till we are called to rise; And then, if we are true to plan, Our statures touch the skies.
The heroism we recite Would be a daily thing, Did not ourselves the cubits warp For fear to be a king.
THE BRAIN
The brain is wider than the sky, For, put them side by side, The one the other will include With ease, and you beside.
The brain is deeper than the sea, For, hold them blue to blue, The one the other will absorb, As sponges, buckets do.
The brain is just the weight of God, For, lift them, pound for pound, And they will differ, if they do, As syllable from sound.
A MAN
Fate slew him, but he did not drop, She felled?he did not fall? Impaled him on her fiercest stakes? He neutralized them all.
She stung him, sapped his firm advance, But, when her worst was done, And he, unmoved, regarded her, Acknowledged him a man.
A BOOK
There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry.
This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul!
JOY IN DEATH
If tolling bell I ask the cause; "A soul has gone to God." I'm answered in a lonesome tone; Is heaven then so sad?
That bells should joyful ring to tell A soul had gone to heaven, Would seem to me the proper way A good news should be given.