LESSON 2 Work and Business (Second Week in June) TEACHER'S TOPIC Summary
During the past year we have considered characteristics which are fundamental in character-building and absolutely necessary for success and happiness in life. The following points may be emphasized:
1. The burden of responsibility in character development is on the parents?in the home.
2. Parents need to be guided by intelligent understanding of child nature.
3. Our aim should be the ultimate good of the child, not yielding to whims nor seeking the easiest way out for the moment.
4. Example is the best teacher. We must be what we wish them to become.
5. Moral qualities are built up through practice, and not by being "talked at or preached at." The home must furnish the right conditions for the formation of these habits. There are wonderful opportunities in the simplest situations of everyday life.
"When we talk about building character, the essence of this building is learning. * * * It is learning of life that I am talking about, and I would give you this definition of learning: learning is conduct that has been so acquired that when the time comes it carries itself." ?William Kilpatrick?Columbia University.
Cooperation of Parents
I. Social Standards.
1. As members of the human race, we must share a common social life.
2. This social life is necessary to our development.
3. Though we disapprove of some community standards, we cannot withdraw our children from group life. It is their environment. They must venture forth.
4. Young people are governed largely by group standards. A. Children often resist on the ground that similar requirements are not made of neighbors' children.
5. Lacking in experience. And undeveloped mentally and spiritually youth needs help in forming right standards.
II. Parents' responsibility.
1. In shaping character in the home.
2. In modifying community standards. A. Get acquainted with parents of children's friends. B. Seek united action. More cooperative work on the part of parents. Parents' maxim should be?decide what is best for the ultimate welfare of the child and then work together toward that end.
III. Some community standards which can be modified only through cooperation of parents. Late hours. Numerous and expensive parties ?encourage parties at home?have them simple.