[WomansExponent | Vol8 | 1879 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: HOME AFFAIRS. | Author: Unknown]

	HOME AFFAIRS.  

	RETURNED HOME—Mr. Don Carlos and Mr.
Feramorz L. Young, sons of the late President
Brigham Young, arrived home on Monday
evening, June 24, and Mr. W. G. Sharp, son of
Bishop John Sharp, arrived Thursday evening,
June 26, all in excellent health and spirits.
These young men graduated a few weeks since
at the Van Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, at
Troy, New York. We welcome them back,
and trust, with the education they have re-
ceived, and the fine natural abilities they pos-
sess, they may make life a complete success.
	ON SATURDAY and Sunday, June 14 and 15,
we attended the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake, held at Grants-
vllle. Mrs. M. A. Hunter, President of the
R.S. of Tooele County, presiding. Sisters and
brethren too from the various settlements were
present. President F. M. Lyman, Bishop Tut-
tle of Tooele, and others from the different
precincts favored the sisters with their pres-
ence. Saturday afternoon the children of
Grantsville were organized into a Primary
Association. The instructions given at this
Conference by President Lyman, were very
encouraging to the sisters in that vicinity.
Miss E. R. Snow was also eloquent and earnest
in addressing the meetings, Mrs B. W. Smith
and other sisters contributed towards making
the conference an interesting one.
	WE ARE happy to announce the marriage of
our young relative, Mr. Junius F. Wells (Presi-
dent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Associations,) to Miss Lena Fobes, of this city.
The marriage ceremony was performed by Pre-
sident D. H. Wells, father of the bridegroom,
in the Endowment House, Monday, June 16th,
at 5 o’clock p.m. A reception was given in the
evening at his father’s residence in the 12th
Ward, at which time were assembled all his
"aunt's, sisters and cousins," with a host of
other friends, who offered their fervent congra-
tulations. The happy pair were the recipients
alao of many useful and elegant presents.
	ON MONDAY, June 23d, another very brilliant
wedding was celebrated in this city. The
bride was Miss Jane Jennings, daughter of
Hon. Wm. Jennings, the bridegroom Mr. Jas.
A. Eldredge, son of Hon. Horace S. Eldredge.
President Taylor performed the ceremony, at
4 o’clock p.m., in the Endowment House. The
reception in honor of Miss Janie’s marriage, at
Devereux House, in the evening, was really
the most magnific[-]nt affair of the kind ever
celebrated in this city. To attempt a descrip-
tion of the elegance or enjoyment in one para-
graph is simply impossible. We offer our most
sincere and fervent congratulations to these
now voyagers on the matrimonial sea of life,

[COLUMN 2]
and trust the breezes may be favorable, and
should storms arise that the winds and waves
may at least be propitious.
	ON FRIDAY morning a party of ladies and
gentlemen left this city to be present at the
closing exercises of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo. Bishop O. F. Whitney, Professors J.
Toronto and J. Kingsbury of the Deseret Uni-
versity, James Dwyer, Esq., Miss Ada Dwyer,
Miss Keetle Heywood, and Miss Annie Wells,
were of the party. We regret we have not
space to give some account of the manner in
which the academy is conducted, under the
superior management of Prof. Carl G. Maeser,
with some gentlemen and ladies as assistants
in different departments. This school is very
highly recommended by all who have attended
and by all who have taken pains to examine
into the peculiar methods of teaching adopted
in the institution. 
	On Saturday morning a party of about fifty
of the teachers and students, including the
visitors from Salt Lake, started up Provo
Cañon, well supplied with pic-nic. From one
or two who participated in the trip we learn
that it was really most delightful, scenery
grand, beautiful flowers and shrubbery, clear
streams of water sparkling and rippling through
the valleys, and the waterfall exceeded in its
beauty the idea they had formed. They had a
feast of good things to eat, and a literary en-
tertainment of songs, speeches, recitations,
jokes and brilliant conversation. The visitors
from this city were extremely well pleased
with their visit to Provo and the people who
so agreeably entertained them.
	SINCE JUNE 15th number of the EXPONENT
was issued, our esteemed friend and Brother
Elder George Reynolds, has been committed
to prison in Lincoln, Nebraska. We had not
believed he would be imprisoned on account of
his being a test case brought forward purposely 
to decide a vexed question. Elder Reynolds,
implicitly believing as most of the Latter-day
Saints did, that the religious liberty granted
by the Constitution of the United States would
be his safeguard. We have no words to express
our feelings on this subject, having been im-
bued with the idea from childhood that in
America there was freedom and religious liber-
ty for all, of whatever color creed. We know
the Apostles and Elders were imprisoned for
their religion in Christ’s day, but that was not
under a free government. They rejoiced that
they were worthy to suffer. And so does our
good brother. He writes that his greatest dis-
appointment is in not being allowed pencil
and paper to scribble down his thoughts. 
	He says in a letter to his family, "my health
is good, I feel quite happy. * * *
God bless and comfort you all, be assured there
are many worse places than in prison for con-
science sake. It cannot take away the peace
which reigns in my heart. Repin[-] not, but
pray continually for yourselves and for me. Bro.
Reynolds speaks highly of the kindness of the of-
fficers who attended him East, and sends greet-
ing to all his old friends: those who desire.to
write to him: address Georgo Reynolds, Box C,
Lincoln, Nebraska. We hope we shall shortly
have some better news to publish on this sub-
ject, at any rate, we hope for his return to
Utah. We have heard that the Anti-Polygamy
ladies of this city have asked President Hayes
not to grant the pardon asked for Brother 
Reynold’s, but let him serve in the
penitenriary and that be not remanded to
the Utah penitentiary. We had understood
that the ladies of this Society had no wish to
have past offences punished, but to prevent any
action of this kind in the future. God forgive
them, they know not what they do, for what
they sow that also they must reap.

[COLUMN 3]
	THE RELIEF Society quarterly conference of
this stake of Zion, was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly rooms, J[-]ne the 20th and 21st.,
beginning at 10 o’clock a. m. June 20th Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The first part of the
morning was occupied with reports from the
various branches of the Belief Society in this
county.  These reports represented each of
these organizations in good condition. Mrs.
Horne made a few brief remarks and Miss. E.
R. Snow then addressed the conference. 
	Afternoon session. The presidents of the
different societies in wards and settlements
each made a verbal report, all, of which were
very satisfactory. When they had finished
Miss E. R. Snow made a few appropriate re-
marks and the conference adjourned until next
Saturday. Mrs. Horne announced that the
next morning would be occupied by the Young
Ladies Association. 
	Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference. Mrs. Louie Felt presiding in, absence
of the President Mrs. Mary Freeze. The re-
ports of the several Y. L. M. I. A. of the coun-
ty were read, and then each president made a
verbal report. Mrs. Louie Felt occupied a lit-
tle time also. Miss E. R. Snow, and then El-
der W. W. Taylor, by invitation, made a few
remarks. He explained the order of filling out
the forms for reports, and showed the impor-
tance of practicing habits of order in financial 
matters, which would, if necessary, enable the
sisters to assist their husbands in keeping their
accounts, for there was no one in whom he
would have more confidence in such matters
than his wifə; and if habits of order were
taught the young, by example as well as pre-
cept, a foundation would be laid in them for
true greatness. He showed the great import
ance of striving to benefit those surrounding
us with the blessings enjoyed by the faithful,
thus creating an influence in behalf of righte-
ousness in the midst of the Saints, that the
children of the Saints might not be led astray.
	Saturday afternoon. Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding, was devoted principally to reports from
Primary Associations.  Miss. Maggie Freeze
read the written reports, after which Presidents
of Primaries in several wards reported verbally.
Mrs. M. T. Horne made some remarks upon the
discipline and management of children, the
necessity of teaching them faith and a knowl-
edge of principle. Mrs. Zina D. Young, M[-]s.
S. M. Kimball, Miss E; R. Snow all spoke
upon the necessity of training the children in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord,
and expressed their pleasure in these organiza-
tions of the little children, and their belief
that through this spiritual training all would
come to a knowledge of the Lord from the
least unto the greatest. Pres. E. R. Snow
said that perhaps at the general meeting two
weeks from that day, they might organize the
P[--]mary Association in a stake capacity, and
wanted a full attendance of the sisters on that
occasion. Conference adjourned until Sept.
next 26th and 27th.


THE BOSTON "Woman’s Journal" May 31,
contains another of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe's
attractive letters written from abroad. It
is dated Paris, May 10. Mrs. Howe's let-
ters are charming, and would make a valu-
able book. There are many books of travel
that are wanting in that peculiar quality
that would make them really useful and
inspiring. Such books are dry and unen-
tertaining, because of the style in which
they are written. Mrs. Howe's letters from
abroad would, we believe, find ready sale,
not only on account of their real merit, but
her intelligent and happy manner of de-
scription of places and people, also her ad-
mirable power of expressing what she sees
and feels.


