[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Guidance of Children Lucy Wright Snow]

Guidance of Children. By Lucy Wright Snow.
COURTESY.
"How sweet and gracious even in common speech Is that fine sense which men call Courtesy! Wholesome as air and genial as the light, Welcome in every clime as breath of flowers  It transmutes aliens into trusting friends, And gives its owner passports round the globe."
In order to correctly establish any fact or truth in the child's mind, guidance is absolutely necessary. The thoughtful parent will realize this and make the necessary preparation. In plain words  to be successful in the correct guidance of children, parents should know the subject under consideration and spare no effort in educating themselves that they may be able to assume this important duty and be fit examples to their children, as well as competent teachers.
The best mother is not always the most unselfish one; efficiency scores as many points as unselfishness. Merely to be a good woman and a loving mother is not enough, she must be competent; she must have some technical knowledge of the psychology of the child mind. The mother who has not had a university training need not be discouraged because of this; self-education is within the reach of all. There are mothers where there are no schools, but we are all privileged to go to the Great Teacher, who giveth to all men liberally, and a careful and prayerful search of the Holy Scriptures will prove to be of infinite value as a means of education to those who will take advantage of the opportunities they afford.
In one of our talks on the subject of guidance of children, we stated that obedience was one of the virtues most difficult to teach to the child. The still greater task we now have before us is to teach the child courtesy. Carlyle says that unless that thing which we are about to teach is a very part of us, we cannot be successful in the teaching of it. Who, then, will dare teach anything concerning courtesy? Who is courteous? What is the definition of courtesy? Let mothers themselves analyze, ask and answer the first question.
GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 633
The definition of the second question, What is courtesy? follows: "Courtesy is the consideration of the needs and wishes of others before one's own."
All things to the child mind circle around the ego  self. Nature is responsible for this condition and we cannot conscientiously criticise the child for selfishness  it is his method of accumulation and self-making, and who will dispute the fact of the superiority of the self-made man? It is right then that he should consider self first but the need of correct guidance is marked at the age of reason in leading him to consider others also. If this guidance is absent, he will, instead of becoming a self-made man, become a selfish, self-centered person. Instead of becoming a civil, amiable and courteous person, he may without guidance, become a hideous bore to society.
A child can learn obedience often without guidance, by feeling or seeing the effects of disobedience, but the effects of discourtesy are not discernible to the child. The difficult task then remains for parents to teach the child something that they are not quite able to reason out with him. Difficult because courtesy requires spontaneity of action toward someone other than self and the child is spontaneous to no one's needs but his own until after the reasoning age when spontaneity develops gradually. However difficult it may seem, it is possible.
Example is the great factor in this task. The mother can teach courtesy to a mere baby in her manner of approach to the little one. Gentle approach and the never-failing "thank you" are the first steps to follow. If the mother and attendants of the babe fail to thank him for the things that he passes to them, and suggest a "thank you" to him every time anything is passed to him, much may be accomplished. As the child grows older he must be appealed to in some attractive way and thus brought to realize the needs and desires of others. The father can usually make the strongest appeal to a child to sacrifice something to mother, or the mother can show the child how good it is to give his own treasures, to his father; taught to do things for brothers and sisters and to do them nicely. Emphasize the importance of courtesy in the home. Do you find yourself more courteous to some stranger than you are to those dearest to you? If so, you may be sure your children will already have followed your example. They will lack in courtesy to mother, father and other dear ones, and you may find yourself wondering why you are not getting results in the home. Never lose a chance to express gratitude or thanks where opportunity offers and often seek the opportunity. Tell the child stories of men and women who were thought-


ful. There are many examples of such men and women in our own Church that may be referred to, such as the Prophet Joseph, President Young, President Joseph F. Smith, Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bethsheba W. Smith, and many others like these. Then there are such men as Alexander Hamilton, whose bitterest enemies admitted the charm of his courteous manner; Henry Van Dyke as a genial and welcome guest in every gathering; Charles W. Eliot as an inspirer of men, who is known by such titles as "The Brother of all Teachers" and "The Friend of Every Lover of His Country;" George Washington, who could never have earned the title of Father of his Country, had he been other than courteous, kind and fatherly. Children should be taught early to give way to their elders, to offer the easy chair, to open the door, to rise when strangers enter, and let us hope that their elders will not forget their part in the expression of gratitude and appreciation. They should be taught to behave decently in places of worship and public resort  to have reverence for certain persons and places; to use courtesy titles, as "Yes, mother," "No, Miss Jones," etc., to knock at a door before entering; to give thanks and say please.
The greatest example we have of courtesy are the lessons Christ taught in parable. His great object being to teach truths in a way that the people could understand them and in such an impersonal way as to cause no one to take offense.
Literature on the subject: For young children, Story of Cinderella; for older children, Emerson's Essays on Behavior, Conduct of Life, Manners.
Scripture  Proverbs 15:1; "A soft answer turneth away wrath." Proverbs 17:24: "Pleasant words are as an honey comb, sweet to the soul and health to the bones." Matthew 5:9; "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God."
PITY. By Grace Ingles Frost.
Pity is Love in gentlest guise, With touch which soothes and sanctifies. Pity is Love of Mercy born, She shrines the soul that Sin hath torn. Pity is Love that when God found, He must Himself her brow have crowned.
By Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams.
Just now there is so much discussion of economy, thrift and expenditures, and so little attention is being paid to the practical side of it by the great majority of the people, that the following words from W. H. J. Taylor will be useful and interesting:
"The spendthrift is the enemy of society; the thriftspender its staunchest ally. One wastes, the other conserves. The spendthrift is only too well known; a profligate who wastes his estate and creates nothing. He has no place in this day and generation. We have no use for him. He is the black sheep, the slacker, the useless unit, the monkey-wrench thrown into the smooth running machinery of business. He has always been denounced  today he is condemned. Fortunately, there are not many of him.
"But the thriftspender, just because he is one of the many, has not received enough attention. There are thousands of good, hard-working, thrifty individuals who have always gone about their business wisely and well, earning and saving, spending and prospering, rendering service to themselves and to those about them. They are the backbone of the nation, the foundation builders of the world's prosperity  true captains of industry.
"We have suddenly been plunged into a world war, faced with conditions we never dreamed of, asked to do tasks and assume burdens never before contemplated.
"Suddenly the cry of 'strict economy' is raised, and in one form or another, the thriftspender is assailed as to what he should and must do. Amateur economists have sprung up on every hand, anxious for a place in the limelight of publicity. It is so easy to criticise, so easy to spout pompous generalities at the public expense.
"Economy, like criticism, is of no value unless it is constructive. For there is such a thing as destructive economy, a very dangerous thing indeed  all the more insidious because veneered with a modicum of truth.
"No wonder the thriftspender takes alarm. He is a patriot and the cry is raised in the name of patriotism. Therein lies its very danger.
"But economy that leads to parsimony is not economy at all.


It is even worse than waste, for it strikes at the productive power of the nation. It would kill the roots that bring forth the harvest; make a desert of the fertile fields of finance. It is not parsimony we want, but frugality; not fear, but faith.
"Thrift means good husbandry, the elimination of waste, but the increase of worldly goods. Gain! Gain for ourselves and others. The thriftspender is not a hoarder. He produces, he gains, he buys, he spends, but spends wisely. He keeps employed and keeps others employed.
"By all means let us all be thriftspenders."
Do not fail to write cheery letters to your soldier boys, mothers. Forget your troubles and worries the moment you put pen to paper  the little home worries and big war tragedies  and put into the letters all the cheerful small gossip about home friends and home interests that you can possibly pack into your missives. The United States Division Inspector draws this startling picture concerning men who desert from the army:
"While stationed at Columbus Barracks, Ohio, last year I was a member of the general court-martial that tried approximately one hundred enlisted men for desertion from National Guard regiments stationed on the border. I believe I am safe in saying that at least ninety per cent of them gave as their reason for desertion the fact that they had received letters from home to the effect that a wife, sister, or mother was either dying, very ill, or in destitute circumstances, and begged the man to come home at once. Many of the men admitted that when they arrived home they found that the writer of the letter had exaggerated conditions."
"cheering surroundings at camps.
"Many young soldiers, fresh from home, suffer from homesickness, no matter how army officers may try to make their surroundings pleasant and comfortable and provide proper amusements. Extraordinary measures have been taken by the war department during the past year to keep the young soldier actively engaged while in camp with sports, amusements, and comforts that a wholesome psychology might be sustained. Still, a type of soldier will yearn for home and fall into a brooding mood. It is obvious how harmful to him and to the service a discontented letter from home might be."
INDIAN NAMES FOR NEW SHIPS.
It will be interesting in our special Indian number to notice the names of 120 new ships which have been recently christened