[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary.
Southern States Mission. Columbia Branch, South Carolina conference.
The membership in the Columbia branch has increased since the first of the year from 17 to 25, a gain of 8 new members. The average attendance at meetings is 15. The members are very active and energetic and great interest is taken in the lesson work. The Magazine is especially appreciated, both for the outlines and for the inspiring articles. This small Relief Society branch has purchased a sacrament set and a bookcase for the use of the branch. Red Cross work is very popular, and in order to raise money for the Red Cross each member recently contributed a penny for each year of her life. The society has purchased War Savings Stamps to the amount of $50. The president, Mrs. Viola May Jordan, is to be congratulated upon the splendid work being done in this organization.
Elder Scott Partridge, a young Salt Lake missionary boy, in the Southern States, writes to a friend as follows:
"I wish you would give the Relief Society a message for me. Tell them that the announcement of the Relief Society releasing that 100,000 bushels of wheat has caused a great deal of favorable comment in the Southern States. An account of it was given in a Memphis paper, which has a wide circulation throughout the state. The article has called the attention of the people to the fact that Utah and the 'Mormons' are solidly behind the government in the war.
Eastern States Mission.
A new Relief Society has been organized at Preston, Ontario, Canada, with Mrs. Alberta Klasson as president. This makes three thriving Relief Society organizations in Canada.
Northwestern States Mission.
Portland Branch.
Since the first of the year the Portland Relief Society has made a splendid record in knitting for the Red Cross. Their report shows, 21 sweaters, 48 pairs of socks, 1 helmet, 6 mufflers, 2 pairs of wristlets, total 78 articles. Mrs. Emma Rolling, chairman of the knitting, heads the list with the following articles, 24 pairs of socks, 1 helmet, 6 sweaters, 2 nurses' sweaters, 6 mufflers, 2 pairs of wristlets. The Mutual girls report 51 knitted articles.
Anaconda Branch.
In this wide-awake branch of 22 members weekly meetings are held and the regular outline work of the Relief Society taken up. Mrs. Annie Amer, the president, reports an average attendance of 50 per cent. Five new members have enrolled since the beginning of the year. Once every month, at the close of the business meeting, refreshments are served at 10c a plate. The money being raised is for the benefit of the branch fund. Teachers' visits are made regularly. In addition to the regular Relief Society activities, the members are all actively engaged in Red Cross work. Last year 471 articles were made for the Red Cross by this small branch, and in addition to this, the members worked regularly at the surgical dressing room. Money was donated for War work as follows: The Red Cross, $10, Junior Red Cross $7, Belgian Relief Fund $15, books for soldiers $4.25, State Council of Defense, Women's Committee $15.75.
Northern States Mission.
A very interesting three-day convention was held a short time ago in the Northern States mission at Chicago. The branches were represented as follows: Minneapolis, Minn., by La Verne Crockett, Idaho, and Etta Dowdle, Canada; Detroit, Mich., by Pearl Jones, Ogden, and Lacy Ritchie, Heber City; Evansville, Petersburg, and Linton by Amelia Randall, of Centerville, and Florence Telford, of West Weber; Muncie, Peru, and Kokomo, Ind., by Ruby Fisher and Lucy Clayton; Council Bluffs, Iowa, by Roxy Robson, of Plain City, and Irene Allen of Draper; Boone, Iowa, by Emmaline Alleman, Bern, Idaho, and Eletha Simmons, Byron Wyo.; Roseland, Chic, by Ethel K. Nielsen, of Blanding, and Gertrude Collet, of Roosevelt; Racine, Wis., by Catherine Wursten, of Logan, and Cora Stephenson, of Ogden; Logan Square, Chicago, by Nora Anderson, of Safford, Ariz., and Cassie Stevens, of Salt Lake; Jackson, Mich., by Fontella Langlois, of Marion, Idaho, and Ruby Madsen of Mount Pleasant; Grand Rapids, Mich., by Bertha Ellsworth, of Safford, Ariz., and Editha Thomas, of Byron, Wyo.; St. Paul, Minn., by Nellie Davis of Evanston, Wyo., and Mary J. Adair, of Luna, N. M.; Milwaukee Wis., Indianapolis, Ind., Davenport, Iowa, Waterloo, Iowa, and Bloomington, Ill., by Mrs. Ellsworth.
Friday was devoted to reports. Friday evening and Saturday, to class work, Monday morning to class work, Monday afternoon instructions on Home Study and Monday night a social. The reports indicated that the Relief Societies are in good condition. In addition to the regular work the branches are all doing Red Cross work.
South African Mission.
A very interesting letter has just been received from Brother Nicolas G. Smith, president of the South African Mission. President Smith states that at the present time there are no Relief Society organizations in this mission. The very scattered condition of the Church members makes it almost impossible for them to get together. Mrs. Smith recently organized a sewing class, with the idea of later honoring it with the name of Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine is received regularly and is very greatly appreciated. President Smith says:
"You might be interested in knowing that our mission covers a territory 1,100 miles long and about 800 miles wide, and in this vast stretch of country there are only about 6,000,000 human beings, and out of that number only about 1,300,000 are white. Millions are living in their primitive way, and we do not work among them. As you know our mission at present is to the whites, although we have some faithful colored members, who are setting examples that the whites might well follow. Our total membership is now 352, and for the year 1917 we paid an average tithe of $4.78 per capita. You can easily see that the Saints are striving to do their duties.
"To show you that our elders are striving to do their full part
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 641
I need to but state that at our conference held last January the report showed that they had traveled about 4,500 miles through country districts without purse or scrip. Since conference they have traveled a total of 1,500 miles in the same manner. We feel that the Lord is constantly blessing us and we are desirous of doing our full part. Although there is much bitterness on every hand, we are and have been very successful in making a great many friends and some of them influential ones."
Australian Mission.
Mrs. Mary J. Miller, wife of President Arnold D. Miller, writes that the Relief Society Magazine brings joy and encouragement to the women in this mission. We regret very much that there are no branches of the Relief Society in this mission at present, and hope that as soon as war conditions improve the Relief Society work will be organized. However, the women are doing a great deal of Red Cross work, and are giving neighborly assistance and encouragement to each other.
Tonga Mission  Friendly Islands.
President Willard L. Smith, of the Tonga Mission, reports that there are in this mission two fully organized Relief Societies and that in three other branches the sisters are organized with the branch elders in charge. In a short time the members in these latter branches will be able to take direct charge of the work. Gatherings are held weekly and are greatly enjoyed by the members. The members are at the present time gathering means for the temple in Hawaii, each making a weekly contribution. The Relief Society work is presided over by Mrs. Willard L. Smith.
OUR OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
Our October conference, both Relief Society and General, were among the best and most profitable events ever held in this city. Our honored leader, President Joseph F. Smith, attended the various sessions of the General Conference. President Emmeline B. Wells attended each session of both conferences. Their presence was both a power and an inspiration. The faith of the people has again triumphed, and our gratitude was unbounded. The Church assembled there through its representatives voted to buy another $250,000 worth of Liberty Bonds, making in all $750,000 which this Church has invested in this patriotic enterprise. Certainly we are proud and grateful to be members of this inspired Church.