RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38 NO. 4
Special Short Story Issue
APRIL 1951

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 APRIL 1951 No. 4

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

Congratulations to President George Albert Smith on His Eighty-First Birthday 220
"Meet Together Often" — The Historic Conferences of the Church by Preston Nibley 221
Enlist in the Fight Against Cancer by Lucybeth C. Rampton 269

APRIL SHORT STORIES

Herman and the Birthday Dinner by Hazel K. Todd 226
A Girl's Point of View by Deone R. Sutherland 231
My Mother's Daughter by Olive W. Burt 239
"Now Is the Time" by Carol Read Flake 246

SERIAL

For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 3 by Mabel Harmer 263

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 249
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 251
Editorial: "Therewith to Be Content" by Marianne C. Sharp 252
Notes From the Field: Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 274
From Near and Far 288

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Meals of Our Time by Sara Mills 254
Gardens in Pattern by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 257
Favors for Baby Showers by Clara Laster 270
Increase That Shelf Space by Rachel K. Laurgaard 272
Apple Sauce or Fruitcake by Alice Bartlett 272
Jane Bybee Coltrin Makes Quilt Tops as a Hobby 273
A New Outlook by Caroline Eyring Miner 281

POETRY

"Living Water" — Frontispiece by Alberta H. Christensen 219
April Mood by Grace Sayre 225
Utah Gulls in Spring by Richard F. Armknecht 237
Showered Petals in the Spring by Bertha A. Kleinman 238
New Tenant by Leone E. McCune 253
Garden Riches by Jeanette P. Parry 253
Miracle by Marian Schroder Crothers 253
Two Sunsets by Juliaetta B. Jensen 262
Anticipation by Maude O. Cook 268
That I May See by LeRoy Burke Meagher 268
April by Beatrice K. Ekman 268
Peach Trees in Bloom by Mabel Jones Gabbott 273
One Time Glimpse by Iris W. Schow 281
Who Has Loved the Earth by Christie Lund Coles 287
Spring Fashions by Ruth H. Chadwick 287
The Silence by Margery S. Stewart 287

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Family Book of Favorite Hymns
By Arthur Austin
The words and music to more than 100 best-loved hymns. Includes commentaries and histories of each. Pub. Edition, $4.95.

SWIFTWATER
By Paul Annixter
A captivating story of the north woods — of a father and his son, and their struggle to establish a sanctuary for geese in Maine.

YES, you are invited to accept any two of the wonderful new books shown on this page as your FREE MEMBERSHIP GIFT BOOKS when you join our Book Club! The Family Reading Club was founded to select and distribute books for the whole family—books which

ANY TWO OF THESE FINE BOOKS WITH MEMBERSHIP

145,000 ENTRIES
1420 PAGES

GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD
By Fulton Oursler
A reverent, faithful retelling of the everlasting story of Jesus, bringing Him excitingly close to you. Publisher's edition, $2.95.

Funk & Wagnalls COLLEGE STANDARD DICTIONARY
Contains over 145,000 entries, 1,420 pages; measures 6 1/2" x 9 1/2". A must volume for your home library. Pub. Edition, $5.50.

Why the Family Reading Club Offers You
ANY TWO FREE

are worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without being objectionable in any way. Read, below, how the Family Reading Club operates and what it means to you. Then mail the coupon—without money—to join the Club and get your TWO FREE BOOKS—today!

SON OF A HUNDRED KINGS
By Thomas B. Costain
The author of "The Black Rose" now weaves a rich and enjoyable story of Canada in the nineties. Publisher's edition, $3.00.

AMERICA COOKS
By The Browns
Contains over 1,600 recipes from all over America. Crystal-clear directions keep you from going wrong. Should be in your kitchen.

BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY AT BIG SAVINGS

There is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club. Each month our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members — books every member of the family can read. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the colorful book review magazine which will come to your home each month. But it is not necessary to purchase every selection — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership.

HOW MEMBERS SAVE UP TO 50%

The Family Reading Club distributes a "Bonus" Book FREE for each four selections you take, and you can build up a fine library this way at no extra expense. The purchase of Club books for only $1.89 each — instead of the publishers' prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save up to 50%!

SEND NO MONEY — JUST MAIL COUPON

If you believe in a book club which will appeal to the finest instincts of every member of the family, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club by sending you your choice of any TWO of the books shown above as your Membership Gift Books. Just mail the coupon today — without money. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!

FAMILY READING CLUB
MINEOLA, N. Y.

MAIL COUPON NOW!
TWO BOOKS FREE!
WITH MEMBERSHIP

FAMILY READING CLUB, DEPT. 4-RSM
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

Please send me at once the two books I have checked below as my Membership Gift Books.

Family Book of Favorite Hymns
New College Standard Dictionary
Swiftwater
Son of a Hundred Kings
The Greatest Story Ever Told
America Cooks

Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or whether I wish to purchase any of the alternate books offered—at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months, beginning with the current Club selection. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept.

Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
(Please Print)

Address

City                                Zone            State

Age, if Under 21

Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2.
Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada

Camera Clix, New York City
From a Painting by B. Plockhorst (1825-1907)
JESUS AND THE SAMARITAN WOMAN AT THE WELL

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 4 | APRIL 1951 Living Water (John 4:8-42) Alberta H. Christensen She had come, no doubt, innumerable times before, Threading the rocky, dust-white path that led To the wayside well of Jacob, near to the land Parcelled to Joseph as a father's gift, Beloved and reverenced now for memory's sake. She had drawn from the coolness of the well's deep core Innumerable times—but in this precious hour,, This treasured sixth one of the day, A miracle had come—to her, a woman of Samaria, Of an alien people scorned and hated as a foe. He was of Galilee—that Stranger—with a voice Gentle as shadows when the dusk is warm Upon the ancient peaks of Gerizim, His eyes more kind than sunlight on the mountain rim; Though his discernment, sharp and saber-swift, Had opened the covered seasons to lay bare Her veiled and unvoiced past. A prophet surely! "IT know Messias cometh," she had said. And he had answered, "I that speak... Am he." How eagerness outran her sandaled feet To Sychar swiftly; others too must know Of everlasting life, of living water— That they who drink thereof shall thirst no more. Though all the doubting world might be deceived, Truth was in his word—and she believed. The Cover: Calla Lilies, Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen. PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH @ q q @ Congratulations to PRE; George Albert Smith on His &ighty-Sirst Birthday THs year, on April 4th, President George Albert Smith reaches his eighty-first birthday. At this time members of the Church throughout the world and many other friends and associates of President Smith extend to him their greetings and best wishes. Our beloved President is remembered in the prayers of Relief Society women everywhere, and we rejoice that his life has been spared to give us comfort and inspiration and the spiritual leadership which guides us to the eternal principles of love and service. It is a great blessing that in this time when confusion and uncertainty have dimmed the forces of hope and high achievement in so much of the world and among so many people, that we have been given a Prophet whose personality and whose desires express love and tolerance and kindness— a breadth of sympathy and a voice of guidance like unto those qualities exemplified by the apostles and prophets of old. May we, as women of the Church, continue to join in the thoughts expressed in the familiar hymn. "We ever pray for thee, our Prophet dear, that God will give to thee, comfort and cheer...." Page 220 "Meet 'Together Often" "The Historic Conferences of the Church Have Been Interesting and Inspiring Occasions Preston Nibley HE annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church of - Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, held on Temple Square in Salt Lake City during the first week of April and near the beginning of October each year, are interesting, unique, and faith-promoting institutions. On these occasions the faithful members of the Church, numbering into the thousands, gather from far and near to listen to the teachings of their leaders, and to be built up in their most holy faith. It is a rare and valuable experience to be able to attend the sessions of a general conference. During the year in which the Church was organized (April 1830), | the saints were commanded by revelation "to meet together often." This command received the attention of the youthful Prophet Joseph Smith when, early in June 1830, he called the first conference of the Church. I find the following in his history: On the ninth day of June, 1830, we held our first conference as an organized Church. Our numbers were about thirty, besides whom many assembled with us, who were either believers or anxious to learn. 'Having opened by singing and prayer, we partook together of the emblems of the body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ. We then proceeded to confirm several who had lately been baptized, after which we called out and ordained several to the various offices of the Priesthood. Much exhortation and instruction was given, and the Holy Ghost was poured out upon us in a miraculous manner (D. H. C., I, pp. 84-85). This historic conference, -held in the Whitmer home, where the Church was organized, set a pattern, in a measure, for all the general conferences that have followed. It was soon found necessary, however, on account of the rapid growth of the Church, to discontinue the practice of administering the sacrament and presenting the names of the brethren who were to be advanced in the Priesthood, though this practice was again resumed, for a time, after the arrival of the saints in the valleys. When the first conference closed, it was adjourned to convene again at the same place on the 26th of September, 1830. This second general conference also set a precedent; meetings were held for three days. We are fortunate in having a brief description of this conference, dictated by the Prophet Jo- ~ seph Smith: At length our conference assembled. We now partook of the Sacrament, confirmed and ordained many, and _attended to a great variety of Church business on the first and the following days of the conference, during which time. We had much of the power of God manifested among us; the Holy Ghost came upon us, and filled us with joy unspeakable and peace, and faith, and hope, and chanty abounded in our midst (Ibid., page 115). During the early years of the Church, from 1830: to 1840, there was, apparently, no set time for holding general conferences of the membership. For example, three Page 221 222 conferences were held in 1831; the first on January 2, at the Whitmer home in Fayette; the second at Kirtland on June 3d; and the third in Jackson County, Missouri, on August 4th, "the first conference in the land of Zion." 'The Prophet Joseph Smith was in attendance at each of these conferences. When and where the practice began of holding the general conferences of the Church on April 6th, is not exactly clear. The Journal History informs us that on Saturday, April 6, 1833, eighty members of the Church who resided on the Big Blue River in Jackson County, Missouri, "met to celebrate for the first time, the birthday of the Church." The Prophet Joseph Smith was not present at this gathering, but he learned about it and wrote a beautiful description of it in his history, although he did not follow the precedent that had been set, as he called the annual conference in 1834 to meet at Kirtland on May 3d. Two years later the Kirtland Temple was dedicated on March 27 (1836) and, in the fall of that year, an important conference was held at Far West, Missouri, on November 7th. So it appears that up to this time there were no set dates for holding the annual or semi-annual conferences of the Church. T was not until 1838 that a general conference was called to meet on April 6th. This important gathering was held at Far West, Missouri, which had become the headquarters of the Church since the arrival of the Prophet Joseph, a few weeks previously, from KirtRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 land. The conference meetings continued three days; the organizations of the Church in Missouri were strengthened; reports were made by the elders who had been on missions; and the Prophet delivered several interesting and instructive discourses. When the conference adjourned, it was agreed to meet again in a similar capacity, "on the first Friday in July, next." However, no more general conferences were held in Missouri, as bitter persecution broke out against the saints; the Prophet and others were confined in Liberty prison, and — the members of the Church were expelled from the state. The next place of settlement for the saints was in Commerce, IIlinois. Here they began to gather in the summer of 1839, and here the Prophet called ""'a general conference' to convene on October 6th of the same year. 'The conference continued for three days. Before it closed "the next conference was appointed to be held on the 6th of April, 1840." 'Thus began the regular schedule of the annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church; a schedule which has been followed, with some variations, until the present time. As there was no building in Nauvoo large enough to hold all the people who attended a general conference, the saints met in a grove, west of the temple. The community grew so rapidly that it was estimated that at the last great conference presided over by the Prophet Joseph Smith, between fifteen and twenty thousand people were in attendance. It was on this occasion (April 7, 1844), that the "MEET TOGETHER OFTEN" Prophet delivered the most famous sermon of his entire career—the "King Follett sermon." George QO. Cannon, who was present, wrote the following regarding this great speech: The address occupied three hours and a half in delivery, and the multitude were held spell-bound by its power. The Prophet seemed to rise above the world. It was as if the light of heaven already encircled his physical being.... Those who heard that sermon never forgot its power (Gzorce QO. Cannon, Life of Joseph Smith, second edition, page 478). After the death of the Prophet, the general conference Church continued in April and October of each year, until the saints departed from Nauvoo in February 1846. In that year, due to the scattered condition of the members, no general conferences were held, but on the 6th of April, 1847, just prior to the departure of the original band of pioneers on their historic journey across the plains, a one-day conference was called at Winter Quarters, at which time the General Authorities of the Church were sustained and other business transacted. An interesting special conference was held in Salt Lake Valley on August 22, 1847, under the direction of President Brigham Young and the Twelve, at which time the new settlement was named "The Great Salt Lake City of the Great Basin of North America." It was at this conference, also, that the Jordan River, City Creek, and Red Butte Creek received their names. ANOTHER general conference was held in 1847, after the return of the pioneers from Salt Lake of the' - 2 This important gathering convened in "the Log Tabernacle, in Millers Hollow' (Council Bluffs, Iowa), during the last week of December. It was at this conference, on the 27th day of December, 1847, that Brigham Young was sustained as President of the Church, with Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards as his counselors. After remaining on the Missouri River during the winter of 1847-48, President Young and his counselors led three large companies of saints to Salt Lake Valley during the summer and fall of 1848. After their arrival, late in September, the first semi-annual general conference was Valley. Held in the new gathering place, under the direction of the First Presidency. The conference met "in the Bowery' on October 6th, but adjourned after the opening exercises until the 8th, "in order to give the Mormon Battalion an opportunity of celebrating their return home." On the 8th the saints convened again and held a one-day session, but adjourned for one week "to await the arrival of Willard Richards and Amasa Lyman, with their companies,' who were expected within a few days. On the 15th the conference convened again, and meetings were held throughout the day, but as the absent apostles had not yet arrived, it was agreed to meet on October 22d for the final sessions. On October 19th the brethren and their companies came into the valley; on Sunday, the 22d, the final meetings of the conference were held. 224 - From October 1848 until the present time, the annual and semiannual conferences of the Church have been held regularly on 'Temple Block in Salt Lake City, with few exceptions. Many stirring events have transpired at these conferences. During the October conference in 1849, approval was given for the opening of foreign missions in Denmark, France, and Italy, and three of the apostles, Erastus Snow, John Taylor, and Lorenzo Snow were | sent to preside over those missions. At the April conference in 1851, Heber C. Kimball presented a motion that the saints should ""build a Temple to the name of the Lord our God in Salt Lake Valley." 'Two years later, on the opening day of the April conference in 1853, the cornerstones of the great building ~were laid with appropriate cere- _ monies. The early conferences in Salt Lake Valley were held in boweries, in the old fort, or on Temple Block, but, in April 1852, the saints were privileged to meet for the first time in 'their new adobe Tabernacle. This building, constructed to seat 2,500 people, stood near the site where the Assembly Hall now stands. President Young was grateful for this building; he said on the opening day: It is a great privilege which we enjoy this morning of assembling ourselves together in this comfortable edifice, which has been erected in the short space of about four months, in the most inclement season of the year. We have now a commodious place in which we can worship. The Lord without fear of being driven from our seats by the wet and cold, or of standing exposed to the weather (Journal History, April 6, 1852). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 In the fall of 1858, a few: months after the arrival of "Johnston's Army" in. Utah, President Brigham Young decided that it would not be wise to hold the semi-annual general conference of the Church. Instead, he called a "Conference of Elders," at which time the brethren were instructed in their duties "in the present crisis." N 1867, the large new Tabernacle was completed, so that the semiannual conference could convene in _the great building in October. This was a notable occasion. The Tabernacle was filled to capacity, and President Young remarked that he thought the Latter-day Saints would never be able to construct a building large enough to seat all the people who desired to attend a general conference. From 1867 to 1877 the annual and semi-annual conferences of the Church were held regularly in the great Tabernacle, but, early in the year 1877, President. Young announced that the next general conference would be held in the temple at St. George, which noted. Structure, the first temple to be finished by the Latter-day Saints in the valleys of the mountains, was then nearing completion. During the latter part of March, and the' first week of April, 1877, hundreds of members of the Church lined the dusty roads of southern Utah, as they traveled in carriages,. Wagons, or on horseback, to attend the first general conference ever held outside of Salt Lake. City, since the advent of the saints to the valleys of the mountains in 1848. "MEET TOGETHER OFTEN" A notable general conference was held in April 1880, under the direction of President John 'Taylor, the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Church. It was on this occasion that President 'Taylor pre-. Sented a motion "to remit $802, 000 of the indebtedness to the Perpetual Emigration Fund, in favor of the worthy poor, and to distribute 1,000 cows and 5,000 sheep, owned by the Church, among the needy." In April 1885, the fifty-ffth annual conference of the Church was held in Logan, Cache County. This was during the anti-polygamy crusade, and only a few of the Authorities of the Church were present. The semi-annual conference in October of that year was also held in Logan. 225 In April 1886, the annual con-. Ference convened in Provo, under the direction of Apostle Franklin D. Richards. 'The semi-annual conference of the same year was held. In Coalville, Summit County. — In 1887, the annual conference was again held in Provo, under the direction of apostle Lorenzo Snow, but, in October of that year, the semi-annual conference was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. All the general conferences of the Church since that time, according to the best information I have been able to obtain, have convened 'in the great Taberftacle on Temple Square. On one occasion, however, an annual conference of the Church was postponed from April to June. This was during the great influenza epidemic of 19109. Grace Sayre Beauty may perish where its kind Is poised on wings of bird or bee, Or in a butterfly's bright glow That lilts in joyous ecstasy. But beauty can never die within The heart that measures note of these: The patterned grace of line and tint, The perfect symmetry designed.. Oh, be assured that though it fall To earth, its passing beauty spent, Each wing is symboled artistry, Its grace and poise and color blent To meet the need assured to me. And I shall see, with each new spring, Beauty renewed in blossoming. -Herman and the Birthday Dinner Hazel K. Todd OTHER is one of those understanding souls who can always find the nice things about people. As Sue says, "It doesn't do any good to say something unkind about anyone. Mother will always prove you're wrong, and then you will wish you hadn't said it." Even when Sue and | were just eight and peeked through the hole in the barn door while the hired man sucked all the eggs mother had beenRsure the skunks were carrying off, mother couldn't be convinced he was wicked and father should fire him at once. She just said, when we made her watch and find it was true, that the poor man must be hungry, and she must give him better meals. And once when father, who is really a good scout and seldom complains, remarked that you couldn't trust "So-and-so" as far as you could throw a bull by the horns, mother just laughed. The reason, she said, that father talked in terms of bulls was because of Herman, our gentleman cow. People like to be with mother. They just happen by for a pickle recipe, or some advice on sewing a dress, or just to visit. Mother has a place in her heart for them all. Just like Mariar. Mother has a deep sense of duty toward Mariar. Who, she says, is all alone in the world. She pays no attention to her cross eyes and her nose. As Sue said after it was all over, homely people are like garden toads to mother. When you know how Page 226 ~Mariar. Much good they do, you forget about their ugly shapes. Mariar used to come and sit for hours and watch mother. She was tickled to death if mother would let her pare the potatoes or something. She ate dinner with us all the Sundays and every holiday. In fact, Sue said she was sure that Mariar had had more pieces of | cake at our house than both of us, being twins, had in our fifteen years. Sue would look out the window and say, "Well, here comes Mariar." Only she'd draw out the last syllable so that it sounded like a cat in trouble. Mother would look a little hurt, but, after all, she knew that Sue was only teasing. Of course we didn't really mind Mariar. That is, nobody minded until Mr. Burton came along. Mr. Burton was the new English teacher at junior high, and, when you listened to him, even gerunds and participles were nice things. -"Sanny," Sue said to me one night after school, "isn't he wonderful! I think we should invite him to the October birthday dinner." October was the month when Sue and I were born. And when our little brother Billie came along in October, too, mother said that was reason enough for a special celebration, so we chose the Sunday nearest both dates, and had a real feast. It was a new idea to invite anyone else to the October birthday dinner since that had always been a day for just the family, except for Mariar had eaten our HERMAN AND THE BIRTHDAY DINNER birthday dinner with us ever since I could remember. Sue had stopped and leaned against the pasture fence. I looked at her and knew there was something going on in her red head. "Sanny," she said, "Mariar would just be out of place having dinner with Mr. Burton." I thought of Mariar's chin wiggling up and down on account of no teeth to hold it straight. "Why," Sue continued, "why, Sanny, he'd think we're looney to have such odd friends!" looked across the pasture fence and watched Herman eating quietly, his big head moving from one side to the other. Presently Sue picked up a stick and flipped it into the air so that it spun around like a humming bird. "I know what," she said, "let's not have Mariar to our birthday dinner!" I looked at her, and her nose was turned up like a March morning.. "But, Sue," I explained very carefully, as if she might have forgotten that Mariar was as much a part of October birthday as the fried chicken and the birthday cake, "Mariar always eats October birthday with us." I ran my hand along the wire. "Why, mother wouldn't think of leaving her out. Besides, Mariar expects it." "Well, after all, Sanny," Sue said, "isn't October birthday our birthday, and aren't there two of us! That should count, shouldn't it?" I didn't say any more, but I had a depressed feeling that something was going to happen. That night when Billie had been tucked into bed and father was 227 settled in his favorite chair and his stocking feet, Sue motioned to me, and I followed her into the kitchen, where mother was fussing over some pickles. Sue squeezed into Billie's high chair and perched her legs upon the footstool so that she looked like a little girl, instead of a young lady in junior high. Mother smiled at her over her pickle jar. "Sue," she laughed, "how long do you think you can squeeze into that chair?", Sue didn't say anything. She just grinned in a way that always brought a little sigh of pride from mother. But I didn't smile. I just squirmed and wished she'd hurry and get it over. I didn't have to wait long. Sue began very carefully, explaining to mother that we should like to invite Mr. Burton to the birthday dinner, and that she thought Matlar was sort of different, "odd," she called it, and would mother please not invite Mariar this year. She looked at me for acknowledgment. But mother's expression wasn't just what you'd call reassuring, so I just sort of nodded my head and looked out the window. But when mother spoke, her voice was very quiet, and there was no trace of what her face had shown. "Very well, dear." She hesitated a moment. "Mariar has been like one of the family for a long time. She has eaten your birthday dinner with you since you were very small girls, and I am sure she will be very hurt." I felt like a heel. But Sue always knows how to get out of things. 228 "Oh, she won't mind this once, Mother. And then we can have her over the next Sunday." MOTHER. Began putting away "her utensils. "Of course, Sue, other Sundays aren't birthday Sundays, but we will not ask Mariar." She laid her hand lovingly on Sue's red head for a minute, and then turned quickly and went into the living room where father was asleep in his chair. "Whew!" Sue sighed, mother wouldn't always have 'to be so loyal."; "And we wouldn't have to be so disloyal," I added, just. For a little spice to the situation. And then I went out and stood by the pasture gate where Herman was. Quietly feeding. He raised his big, meanlooking head and shook it at me belligerently. "What's the matter with you?" I asked, feeling as if I'd stolen. Some little child's ice cream. "Nobody left you out of a birthday dinner." But maybe Herman wasn't so sure, for I heard father say the next evening that something had certainly stirred Herman's temper up. I was getting my English, but mostly gazing out the -window.. I forgot all about conjugating verbs when I saw Mariar coming through the gate. She had on her old red sweater, the same one I'd seen her wear ever since I could remember. It was darned at the elbows and the pockets sagged - until father _ always wanted to know what. She' d had in them. -. | > "Here comes s Mariar," Sue. 'But Sue just. Sae, "Mariar - is coming, Mother,": I 'said to -"Twish _ squash represented a basket: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 "Yes," mother said, "Go. To the "door, will 5 you please?" Mother was sitting by the table with some recipes or something. Mariar sat down beside her. Father. Came in hunting for the newspaper. "You'd better not. Let Herman see. That sweater tonight, Mariar," he 'said, "he's in a -bad mood." "Oh, go on about your business," Mariar laughed. "That old bull of yours wouldn't chase anything. Be- 'sides, he's seen this red sweater so much he doesn't pay any more attention to it than he would a Pa of blue overalls." Father found his newspaper | an went out on the porch where it was quieter.. Mariar looked. At. Mother fondly, while she fumbled around inside her sweater and brought forth a peculiar-looking object and set it carefully on the table before mother. It took a few minutes to distinguish what was under the mbbons and paper flowers and other bright stuff. Then I saw that it was just a plain, old, white summer squash. Instinctively I looked at Sue, but from her puzzled expression I knew she hadn't yet discovered what it was. OTHER had caught the joyous | expectation on Mariar'sface. "It's lovely," she said. Mariar beamed like a child who had just eaten-all her oatmeal and was being praised by the mother. "I thought we could use it. For 'a table decoration for the birthday dinner." -T looked at it. Again with the new light of identity. Upon it. Now I understood. The scallops ofthe 'The HERMAN AND THE BIRTHDAY DINNER flowers and ribbons and_ things went in it. I looked at Sue helplessly. But I knew from her pained expression what she was thinking. I pictured in my mind Mr. Burton sitting at the table, while in front of him, bedecked in all its glory, rested Mariar's masterpiece. He would twist his head to one side of it and say, "Miss Sue, may I have the butter, please?" Sue turned beseeching eyes upon mother. Mother is a dear. I think she understood in that one look just how much it meant to Sue to have Mr. Burton impressed at the birthday dinner. She reached over and laid her hand tenderly on Mariar's. "Mariar," she said, with no trace of the emotional strain that I knew was going on inside her, "I wanted to ask you something. You see, the twins have invited some friends from school this year to their birthday dinner." Mother hesitated a moment. "I thought perhaps we had better leave the dinner to the young people this year." She glanced at Sue, but Sue didn't say anything. So she continued, "Maybe we should have Billie's birthday separately this year. You could help me with it." She had tacked this last thought about Billie on, on the spur of the moment, for I knew mother loved the way we had all our birthdays together. She was looking at Mariar for reassurance, and so was I. But I saw the color slowly drain from her face, leaving it forlorn and helpless. "Oh, sure, Mrs. Simpson," she said, struggling for control. "Of course that would be right." 229 I looked at her sitting so alone and homely in her old red sweater, and I wished Sue had never thought of Mr. Burton. But Sue was doing something in the cabinet, rattling pans around. She didn't look up. I turned back to Mariar, and she was rubbing her old wrinkled hands together in sort of a helpless gesture. "I guess I ought to be going," she said. GHE stood up and reached for the table decoration.. But mother's hand on her arm stopped her. "No, don't take it, Mariar," she said. "I'd love to have ie Mariar flashed her a quick look of thankfulness and then she left. Nobody said anything. Father came into the house. He looked around and_ remarked, '""What's everybody so glum about? You look as if you'd all been sucking pickles." | -Mother said, "Oh, it must be the weather." But that was odd, for it was lovely autumn weather. Father put on his hat and went out somewhere into the yard. Mother picked up a pink shawl from the chair back, and went out, saying something about some plums. Sue was sitting in Billie's high chair. She was unconsciously twisting a piece of her red hair around her finger. "Well," she said, looking at me defensively, "I'm glad that's over." "Yes," I said. "She'll get over it," Sue said. "It's nothing to fuss about. I'm going outside." 230 After she'd gone I walked aimlessly around the kitchen. Billie called for a drink, and I took him some water, spilling some on the cabinet. I took a dish towel and wiped it up. It seemed as though everyone was going outside, so I went out too, unconsciously carrying the dish towel with me. Sue was leaning on the orchard fence, sort of looking at nothing, so I went and leaned on it, too. "How'd you like Mariar's centerpiece?" she asked dryly. "But maybe if you sort of scooped out the middle of the squash." I began, and then I saw Herman. He was standing under the Delicious apple tree, and he was tearing up the earth with his horns and his feet, and letting out unearthly noises. "Sue," I said, clutching her arm, "what's Herman doing in the orchard, and what's he so angry about?" But even as I glanced at Sue and saw the color drain from her face, I caught a glimpse of mother's pink shawl. She was picking plums and, even in the anxiety of the moment I knew she was thinking of Mariar, for she was utterly oblivious to Herman. And it was plain to see that mother was the object of Herman's annoyance. He lifted his huge head and snorted. QUE was white as a sheet. I was thinking desperately what to do. Mother was too far to run to her and, if she ran, Herman would surely run, too. "But Herman has never chased anyone before. Surely he wouldn't harm mother." But, even as I said it, he lifted his head and roared front of her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 with anger, and I knew that what I had just said was not true. "Mother!" I screamed, and Sue screamed it right after me. Mother started and then, when she saw Herman, she clutched the shawl around her shoulders and began to run. Herman pawed again and the dirt flew like a dust storm. And he took two terrible steps. "It's the pink shawl!" I screamed. "Drop the shawl, Mother!" But mother was too scared to know what we said. Instead of dropping it, she only clutched it tighter and tried to run faster. Sue was clinging to me wildly, and I could feel her heart pounding against my sleeve. Then Herman put down his massive head and started forward, and I heard Sue praying aloud. "Father!" I cried, "Father, where are you!" Then I saw Mariar. She must have been sitting in the grape arbor. She was running toward Herman with the old red sweater in She shook it wildly at him. I swallowed to keep my heart from leaping out of my throat. '"Mariar!"" Sue sobbed. "It's Mariar!"' Herman had seen the sweater now, and he roared with rage. Something had come into his way, something that was red instead of pink. He hesitated in his horrible purpose, and pawed the earth like something mad. Through the corner of my eye I could see mother running, still running, without looking back to know that a third (Continued on page 284) A Girl's Point of View Deone R. Sutherland HEN my sister Meredith got married, Mother cried. In fact, she cried for a whole week before. "Young people take too many chances nowadays," Mother said, walking up and down the living room with a handkerchief while Father read the paper and looked up sympathetically only when absolutely necessary. "Bill has years of school ahead of him—my lovely Meredith. Such hardships!" "Never mind, Mother," I said. "I'm going to be a career girl a long time before I marry. I like buying my own nylons." | "You're selfish," said Father. "Selfish!" cried Mother, not letting me answer, "selfish to wish your children security! And safety?" Her voice rose, and Father had to pacify her. Bill was coming to dinner. | "You ought to wait to get married until Bill is through school," Mother said to Meredith as soon as they came in. "Nonsense," said Father, "we've gone over all that. Now that they're just about married, leave them in peace." "I agree with you," said Bill to mother, his jaw line tightening, "I have no right to ask Meredith to make sacrifices." "Yes, you have," said Meredith, emphatically. She was dark with a curved, sweet mouth and beautiful eyes. She'd been popular on the nearby campus of the university where she'd met Bill. "Bill won't have a Ph. D. For five more years. I don't mind going along with him for that. Besides, I'll have him. It's not his fault the army slowed everything up. I'll go on working. Bill's car is all paid for. Everything will be easy." I knew they wouldn't wait. Anybody that pays that little attention to food when he eats at our place, is serious. I got a promotion and a raise in the advertising department where I work just about the same time Meredith and Bill got in the student housing project near the campus., "It's dreadful," said Mother, but Meredith said it was cute. They liked small places. Meredith did seem clever and fixed curtains and a dressing table and painted a great deal. I gave them some fancy Lenox. I told them that I looked for a cuckoo bird, but I couldn't find one. "Your little sister is bitter about our small quarters and poverty." Bill smiled at Meredith. "Not really," I said, "I've just got good sense." "You wait," said Bill, "until Mitch pops the question. No more career woman then." "Mitchell," said mother, "hasn't a penny. His law practice is just beginning. I'm glad my baby, anyway, has the good sense to wait for a little security before she marries." Mother was sneaking steak into Meredith's refrigerator. "No, not me," I said, "and Mitch agrees. I can tell he thinks the way Page 23) 232 I do. He's practical. Have everything first or you never get anything." — "Why, that's what I'm doing," said Meredith; "I'm having everything first."" She smiled at Bill and shut us out so completely for a moment that I felt a twinge of irritation. Meredith is too sentimental, I thought. I also should have suspected Baby Joe, but I'm not quick at things like that. "Your point of view about children changes after you're married," Meredith explained, while she sewed the inexpensive layette. "You don't realize before how important they are. Then after you're married you want them more than anything." HEY brought Little Joe home in the usual blue blanket to the students' housing project. But he made a difference. Meredith bought ess and was unusually busy. "T couldn't stand that kind of life," I told Mitchell, "doing housework all the time." "No," agreed Mitchell, ducking his head from habit, though all our doors are tall enough for him. "Just doing dishes isn't much of a life." I pinned on his orchid, and he watched from the fireplace. I came over to the mirror to check. "You make a lovely career girl," - he said, looking at me in the mirror. But I wasn't sure what he was thinking. "Mitchell West is a coming lawyer," said father. "It's taking a chance to marry a lawyer until he's established. Too many starve! There are too many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 prospective clients who have never heard of him," said mother. I agreed with mother, I bought a purple coat and a black velvet hat. With sweeping purple feathers. When Mitchell watched me come down the stairs, his approving glances were worth a dozen times my weekly checks. "You're a peacock," Mitch said, and though his eyes were mocking when he kissed my cheek ever so | lightly, his hand on my arm was hard. I glanced across to the mirror, and saw his hand fall. The coat had very good lines, I thought. The development of Little Joe was phenomenal. We all spoiled him, but he seemed unusually in- ~ telligent and quite able to absorb it. Since I worked and saw Mitch an evening or two a week, I never really tended Baby Joe for very C long periods at a time. Since mother was always begging Meredith and Bill to bring him home, he learned to recognize us at what we thought was an early age. Father thought he made the sun set and rise. You know how babies are. I didn't change my mind about the work, though. Meredith didn't look the same as before she was married. I knew the difference between rinsing out nylons and three or four baby washes a week. I got another raise just before Christmas, and Mitch bought a new car. I took a few days off, and Meredith and Bill called in to say they had to do Christmas shopping. "Baby Joe should appreciate Christmas this year," said Bill. He had been only four or five months old the Christmas before. A GIRL'S POINT OF VIEW - "Tl tend him," I said. "I have a date later, but I've got the whole day off." — Mother. Was doing Christmas cooking or she'd have insisted on staying with him herself. S° I tended Joe while Meredith | and Bill did their Christmas shopping. "Don't let anything happen to him." Meredith came back to kiss him goodbye again for the third time. | "Bye, bye," said Joe waving his hand, but clearly wanting to concentrate on the two-piece wooden puzzle I had brought. "Don't let anything happen to you," Bill laughed at me. "Meredith frequently comes out the losen" "Mitchell says I can take care of myself anywhere," I said. "Everything's under control." 'They ran down the flight of wooden steps, and I went back to baby Joe. He looked at me speculatively. He grunted to his feet, his face coming up red. He grinned, said something like "dat, dat" and threw the two-piece wooden puzzle. One piece fell short, but I stopped the other with my forehead. | "No, no," I said calmly, "musn't throw." "No, no," he said, throwing the puzzle toward the front window. I put the puzzle away and looked for something else to take his attention. He began pulling the books out of Bill's bookcase. I held him until I was sure his attention was focused on his blocks and cart. Then I 'picked up the books, keeping an eye on him all the time. | 3 "Wa, waw," said baby Joe. I poured him a glass of water. He wouldn't touch it until I let him hold it himself. He drank slowly, pausing to smile at me and cry energetically, "No, no" if I began to take the glass. I waited patiently, and finally Joe held out the glass. "Oh, thank you, Joe," I said elaborately, and he dumped the half glass of water on my feet. He beamed up at me. "Hi," he said, "hi!'' | I wound his truck for him, and went into the bathroom to dry off a little. My hair was looking wild already. I began to comb it and looked down in time to save the towels from Little Joe's obvious intentions. Mothers must not ever get to ¢omb their hair, I thought. I closed the bathroom door behind us. They must not wear lipstick or do anything except try to survive 'their children.. I was beginning to feel definitely weary, but Joe refused to rest. I turned on the Christmas tree lights even though it was the middle of the day. Joe liked that. The tree was on top the phonograph on top the table. It was safe. I leaned down and kissed Joe standing in front of the tree. "Li, ligh," he said, laughing. Joe seemed to take after our side of the family, I thought. He was bright. I ruffled his silky hair. THE telephone rang, and it was mother asking how Joe was. "The heartstealer is fine," I told her, and just then he bit into an extra blue light bulb that matched the set on the tree. There must have been one in the desk drawers 234 or the closet he'd been ducking into. He was spitting glass and looking disturbed. I dropped the phone and wiped his mouth out frantically. "Spit," I cried, "'spit!" When I saw blood on the cloth, I nearly died. Mother hung up and was on her way over while I phoned the doctor. No, I didn't know for sure if he'd swallowed any. He'd swallowed all the time ' I was wiping out his mouth. "Bread and potatoes," the doctor said. "Watch him for signs of pain." He wouldn't eat the bread. "Please eat it," I pleaded and coaxed. I stood him by the sink. I stood him on the cupboard. I let him play with the ice trays in the refrigerator. He ate three slices of bread and four ice cubes, and then mother came. "Perhaps he didn't swallow any glass at all," Mother tried to comfort me. "It's hard to chew," I said, "let alone swallow. I tried some to see. The glass is too thick to swallow." "A blue one," said Mother, looking at the broken fragments and holding Joe while I fixed the potatoes. — Mitchell called to see what time he could pick me up. "Don't," I moaned, "I've let baby Joe kill himself, maybe, and I can't face anyone." "Tll be over anyway," Mitchell insisted. Meredith and Bill came home, and mother and I told them. I was walking and bouncing Joe. "Don't worry so," said Meredith, "we got the letter box key all right RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 195] after he swallowed that, so perhaps if there was. Any glass swallowed " "We'll get it," said Bill, "but I don't think he could swallow those pieces and not choke." I felt better and blew my nose. Mitchell knocked, but I couldn't get to the bathroom in time. He grinned at me. "Don't tell me Little Sister's gone domestic—" "Certainly not," I said. "I look a> mess is all." I kissed Little Joe, and even though Mitchell was there silently laughing at me, I felt a lump in my throat. If anything happened to Joe I put on lipstick in Mitchell's car. "Career woman again?" asked Mitchell. "Don't tell me you have no secret longings for the fireside. Surely we should have stayed so you could have demonstrated the advantages of home." Was he worried about my wanting to settle down? He needn't be. I opened the window a little and let the cold air cool my flushed face. "I'm really relieved to be finished with that job," I said. My conversation followed the old pattern while I worried about Joe and the glass. "No, it's too dreadful, Mitchell, living like that, working like that. Why, I was only there three hours. How could a person keep his sanity day after day? I mean, Joe's sweet, but you need a big house and a fenced in yard and plenty of help.": "Sure," agreed Mitchell. "It's hard on a person to do without the things he should have. A man would want his wife to have every-— thing he could give her." He stopped talking then, and when he A GIRL'S POINT OF VIEW spoke again it was about a play we were going to. I leaned against the seat. I was too exhausted to investigate vague uneasy feelings. It was only the worry about Joe that really bothered me, anyway. It was nice to have Mitchell to drive me around. WE were having a family gathering Christmas Eve, but I wore my new wine wool dress because Mitchell was coming. "It makes your hair look marvelous,' said mother.; "You look perfect," Mitchell remarked when he came in. A drop of watered snow glistened in his dark hair. "I thought I'd better make up for the terrible impression at Meredith's," I laughed. "Oh, I didn't mind," said Mitchell. He looked very tall in our front hall, slipping off his overcoat. We went into the living room, and I could feel him following me. He walked so evenly; it was one of the first things I'd ever noticed about him. Baby Joe was already in bed upstairs, so Mitchell left his present under the tree. After our late dinner, Bill said he had an announcement to make. "Not yet," warned Meredith, but she was smiling so happily that Bill proudly went ahead. "Baby Joe is going to have company next summer." "Oh!" exclaimed Mother. "No!" I repeated. "We thought it would be a shame to raise Joe alone. He'll have somebody to play with. We're so happy, and we'll be able to manage Fai 235 It was incredible, but Meredith really looked happy. Father kissed her on the cheek. "I kind of like large families," Mitchell said, and he also kissed Meredith on the cheek. "T'll check on Joe," I volunteered. I couldn't stand the feeling in my chest. It was hard to pity Meredith when she looked like that. I felt confused. Joe was asleep on my bed. He was beautiful like Meredith, and his lashes lay against his cheek in the light from the door. He didn't look as if he'd eaten glass. I leaned over him to make sure he was breathing. "He's sweet, isn't he?" Mitchell was leaning in the doorway. "Don't," I said. "This sentimental scene has been played in too many stories and movies." Mitchell stepped back. "Right you are," he agreed, giving me a long, hard look, and he turned and went down the stairs without glancing back. Mitchell was busy during the holidays, except for New Years and then Meredith and Bill were with us for a kind of farewell party. They were to leave the day following for California. "The last lap for the last degree," said Bill. "I'm lucky to be able to start in the middle of the year and save time." "We're lucky to be able to get an apartment so near the campus," Meredith said contentedly. "I can see Bill often even if he is always holding a book in front of him." "You people carry a rabbit's foot," 'Mitchell commented. "You have all the luck." 236 I looked to see if he were joking. He never looked at me at all. He drove me home and said good night quickly. I stood in the hall with the light off and watched Mitchell start his car very fast and the red tail light disappear. I went upstairs and. Took off my new gray hat with the pink rose. I set it on the dresser and looked into the mirror until I began to cry. I didn't see Mitchell for a week. _And then for another week. He didn't call. |. _. Father said tactfully, "Mitchell must be having a lot of work." "He's doing fine, I guess," I answered. "You mean he's able to pay the renton that office,' suggested mother. "A girl takes a lot of chances when she marries a lawyer." "Everybody takes chances," Father said, speaking louder than he usually did. "If we didn't take risks, everything would die out from inactivity." He folded his newspaper with a jerk, "Mitchell's a fine man.' I. Went en, I opened. My closet and looked at my rows of shoes. I put on green ones, with three-inch heels. Then I took them off. I put on my saddle Oxfords and my tweed skirt that was threadbare and sagged where I sat down. I put on my coat. I'd never see anyone walking around our block. Just lighted windows with families inside. I went downstairs and stopped at the living room door. Father was reading Meredith's letter. That had come that afternoon. Mother had mentioned it when I had come in. 'such a calamity?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 "She says she feels fine," said Father looking pleased. — "She always says that," mother — interrupted. "Read on. Wait'll you get to the important part near the end. It's terrible, it really is." "What?" I asked. "Read it out loud. I haven't read it." "My word," exclaimed F ather, "Bill's broken his arm!" "Right after they got. There," added Mother. "Can you inieane "Read it," I said. "Their couch wouldn't go in the door," Father explained, "so Bill was having it pulled up to go through the window. He only fell two stories. Listen to this: "We're very lucky since this won't really interfere with his school work. | It was his left arm, and he's able to go right on with his classes.. Aren't we fortunate!' | "Baby Joe has learned how to open our refrigerator door. We've tied a rope around it, but that takes too long when I need to get in it. We'll have to think of something else." went out into the hall. It. Was snowing, so I stopped to find an umbrella. I could hear Father talking. "This reminds me of us, doesn't it you, Mother?" | 'Well, we had a lot of trouble." I could hear mother's knitting needles clicking. "No, I mean we were. The same kind of crazy youngsters. We got married on fifty dollars, remember?" "Hush," said mother, I I'd forgotten all about that." "And right off we had Meredith,' father laughed. "You'll have to A GIRL'S POINT OF VIEW %? Admit we took terrible chances. His voice sounded the way it does when he teases and loves someone at the same time. I opened the door and shut it with a bang. Here was something to think about. But I didn't want to think. I ran down the front sidewalk, jerking my umbrella up, and swung, not into the gate, but into someone's overcoat. "You're crying!" commented Mitchell. "I am not," I argued. "You shouldn't be," he said, "because you have no heart, no blood, but you. Are. Here's a paradox for you.' Then his voice changed. "You're getting snowed on." He took my umbrella. I leaned against the gate. I couldn't bear to look at him, and I couldn't bear not to. But no matter how I tried I couldn't get past _his chin. I could feel his eyes on me, and knew the quizzical smile. "You look like a high school girl," he said. "You even look vul- 237 nerable, but that couldn't be, because you'd never take a chance on being hurt in any way." "Don't, Mitchell!" I tried to keep my voice from disappearing. "T've changed. I've found me," and I meant it. Chains of hesitation dropped off there by the gate, and I began to know what I wanted. Then all of a sudden I knew that what I wanted now was what Mitchell had wanted all along. Perhaps he saw that realization, for his face was suddenly different under the street lamp, in the snow. It went young, and with a surge of feeling, I felt that I must protect him. "Tt took you such a long time to grow up,' Mitchell said, watching me. "We can manage," I remarked, finding it hard to get my breath. "T can work for a few months...." "Oh, sure," he agreed, smiling at me, tipping the umbrella between us and the street and the light and any curious people passing by. -——— + Utah Gulls in Spring Richard F. Armknecht A regiment of gulls is on parade In single line along the furrow's lip. They break before the tractor's fusillade And form again behind the gang-plow ship. They skirmish briefly as the new-turned loam Reveals its flotsam—shining grub and worm. They dip strong beaks in stubborn, sandy foam And then resume their line, unruffled, firm. These gulls have never waited by a shore Nor followed vessels out of sight of land. Their lake is flat and sterile, but the lore Of waves is in their blood. They understand The ancient curling things. Long years from now These Utah gulls will. Know, when spring is waking, The harvest to be had behind a plow, With the brown waves breaking. Josef MucHeh Ghoswontel Petals in the Spring Bertha A. Kleinman Page 238 I do not mind the years that come and go, That winter strews her silver in my hair; I do not mind the snow, For this 1 know— The promise of the spring is cradled there. I do not mind the autumn's falling leaves, Nor do I pine the summers that are gone; I love the harvest with its ripened sheaves, The friendly rain, The twilight coming on. I do not mind the growing elderly, For every day unfolds some precious thing— With friends like you to walk apace with me, I live in showered petals of the spring. Who Laughs Last Olive W. Burt NNABELL glanced impatiently at the clock. It was getting late and she ought to be home. That was the worst of teaching! Everyone said, "Banker's hours! Getting out of work before four, you have plenty of time to get home before Clay. You've certainly worked things out right!" - | What they didn't know was that very often, like today, she had to stay to see students about their work, had to stay, whether she wanted to or not. This fellow now, that she was waiting for when she ought to be home starting Clay's dinner, getting Libby ready to meet her daddy —what did she care about his problems, really? But as vocational consultant she had to seem to care, had to appear interested, but calm, though she was quivering with impatience to get away. 'Thank heavens there was only one more week of school this year! It was past five when she finally stood up behind her big desk and said, smiling warmly, "You'll be all right now, Mr. Graham. Now that you've recognized your problem, I'm sure you can handle it successfully. You're adult and sensible. But, if you have difficulty, don't hesitate to come to me again." She was thinking, "Please hurty! I've got a hot-headed husband coming home in an hour, and a _ child to pick up, and some marketing to do!" As soon as the door closed behind. Graham, Annabell grabbed her hat and coat and ran down the hall and across to the parking lot. She swung her car violently out of its place and headed toward town. She glanced at her wrist watch and thought impatiently, I'd_better not stop for Libby. Mother can just keep her till after dinner, then Clay and I can drive down and pick her up. And I'll not stop at the market, either. I'll get by with what I've got on hand. It makes Clay furious when I'm not there— and I don't want him to be furious, or even ruffled, till after I sign my contract for next year. Then I don't care so much! That contract and her foolish promise to Clay. When he gave his consent to her teaching this year—taking a position to help the university in its emergency of returned veterans and depleted faculty—he had made her promise she would not sign up for another year without his express consent. "T don't like it," he said from the first. "Oh, I know they need help, but so do I, and so does Libby. Libby, most of all. Isn't that right, Mother Lewis?" He'd appealed to her mother. Her mother had answered reasonably, "You children must figure this out for yourselves. Don't bring me into it." Then she had added as an afterthought, "Of course, Annabell is the only available person with the right training and Page 239 240 qualifications—and after all, it is what she had planned to do." " "I thought she changed her plans when she married me," Clay had replied bitterly. "Apparently I was wrong. But what about Libby? There's no decent help." "Well, I can help there," Libby's grandmother smiled her most disarming smile "I'll be glad to take Libby during the day till you do find a housekeeper." NNABELL grinned wryly, maneuvering the car expertly through the traffic. Her mother had certainly got more than she had bargained for. 'They'd had girls, of course, from time to time, but not one of them had lasted very long, and then it had been back to mother with Libby. Annabell had rather fancied her mother was getting just a little weary of the arrangement, but. Since it had been her suggestion, she couldn't very well make a fuss. | me Annabell left the car in the driveway, since they'd have to go for Libby later, and dashed into the house., As she opened the door the fragrance of roast meat and apples cooking with sugar and cinnamon greeted her nostrils, and her hurry subsided into an immense relief. Mother had brought Libby home and started dinner. She went into the living room and there sat Clay, his slippered feet high, his paper at a comfortable angle as he scanned the sports page. "Hello, darling!" Annabell lilted, happy that everything was under control. 3 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Clay dropped his paper, came and took hold of her arms, bending his long body to kiss her. "Where's_ Libby?" he asked casually. |, Annabell's eyes widened. "Isn't — she—didn't Mother bring her?" she asked., Clay shook his head. "Haven't seen your mother. If she came; it must have been before I got home." Annabell motioned toward the kitchen. "Then who 2" "Oh," Clay smiled, "that's Martha Dennis, our new housekeeper." Annabell started toward the kitchen impulsively. Then she stopped and turned to face her husband. "What is this, Clay?" she asked. He was suspiciously casual. "The greatest stroke of luck, darling. Bill Dixon, you know Bill, has been sent to Europe for a year. Couldn't take Martha with him, so he lent her to us. He wants her back again when he returns, of course. But I grabbed at the chance. You seemed set on signing the contract for next year, and this seemed the solution. Libby and_I will have a real home life, anyway—and you, too, darling. Come and meet her, | and you'll see." ~ Annabell tried to collect her thoughts. 'There was something strange about this. Clay had never tried to hire household help before, had always left it up to her. And his whole manner—sort of smug... A cat-that's-swallowed-the-canary sort of look. They went into the kitchen. _ "Martha," Clay said, "this is Mrs. Patrick." _ 3 WHO LAUGHS LAST Annabell stiffened. Clay had introduced her to the servant. Oh, he probably didn't mean anything by it, but in her mother's proper household she had been trained to expect correct introductions. Martha came forward. GHE doesn't look like a servant! Annabell thought swiftly, ing in the refined, almost beautiful face; the neat gray hair, the motherly smile with which Martha greeted her. Annabell felt that "- was staring, but she couldn't help it, and she found that her surprise at this housekeeper was making her tongue stumble over what should have been easy words of greeting. What was wrong? Surely she Should be as glad as anyone that Clay had found such a housekeepett Finally she said cooly, ats Sinise. Room. "Yes, Mrs. Patrick," Martha answered, quietly. Clay interrupted, "Make it six fifteen, Martha. Then I'll have time to dash down and get Libby. I want her to get acquainted with Martha. They're going to be great friends, I know." He didn't wait for an answer or a remonstrance, but hurried out to the car, whistling. He hadn't whistled for months. Annabell went into her bedroom and threw her hat and coat across the bed. She stared at herself in the mirror, at her straight black "We eat and turned to leave the hair in its dignified coil at the nape C of her neck; at her hazel-flecked eyes and her straight, set chin. Takkitchen, Libby 241 Why, I look like. A sour old woman, she thought bitterly, and then wondered why this idea had crossed her mind. "'Maybe it's because that—that woman looks so comfortable!" she muttered. "But in my job you can't look motherly. Everyone would weep on your shoulder. You have to look efficient; you have to inspire confidence and self respect. You can't baby grown men." "Or can you?" a tiny voice seemed to whisper. Well, if Clay wanted mothering, he could have it, she decided crossly.. She pulled the pins furiously from her hair and brushed the thick, dark curls back loosely, watching the mirror for a miracle. Annabell did not go out until she heard Clay and Libby come noisily in. As she stepped into the hall she. Saw them go into the crowing from her Daddy's Shoulder, where she rode triumphantly. "Martha!" Clay cried. "Here's Libby—here's the little queen herself!" "Hello, Libby!" Martha's voice was cheerful and friendly. "I've made cinnamon apples for you. Your daddy said they're your favorite!"' Annabell couldn't help thinking, Well, how could I make cinnamon apples when I don't get home till five and after! Libby was crowing, "Pretty, pretty Martha!' and all three were laughing. "She'll be bossing you, Martha, if you don't watch out," Clay chuckled. "She can boss with a vel- 242 \ vet hand, but it's bossing, just the same. And with her mother away, she'll be the one you'll be trying to please." Oh, yeah? Annabell thought Slangily. She'd better please me, too. Libby bossing, indeed! How foolish could Clay be? JHEN she met her husband and daughter in the dining room, the color in her cheeks was not due to rouge. The dinner was good, but Annabell couldn't eat it. Clay's appetite, on the other hand, was excellent, as were his humor and wit. Annabell was reminded of the way Clay showed off when they had important guests to dinner, and since he never displayed this charm for her alone—not for nearly a year, anyway—it gave to the presence of the new housekeeper a significance it didn't merit. Or did it? When Libby was ready for bed she cried suddenly, "Want to kiss Martha good night! Want to kiss Martha good night." She eluded Annabell's hands and ran down the hall shrieking, "Martha! Martha!" Annabell caught her lower lip between her teeth. How stupid to be jealous of a stranger! She thought. Then, I'm not jealous! I'm just bewildered. Clay was saying casually, "She's the funniest child to take to certain people. I suppose it's because she's had so many people take care of her. She doesn't have a chance to form the silly inhibitions that make other children cling to one person." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Oh, Clay, that's cruel! Annabell thought, and turned her face swiftly away so that he might not see her hurt. It was a terrible evening, with Clay making frequent trips kitchenward for ice water or a snack or merely to see whether the screen was fastened. Every time he went, Annabell found herself tensed into listening to the cheery remarks that passed between him and the busy housekeeper. Her head was aching when she went to bed, but she couldn't sleep. She lay there thinking of the evening and trying to lay her finger on just what had disturbed her so. It wasn't anything in Martha, herself, she had to admit. The woman had been perfect in her attitude. Annabell sighed. No, it was in Clay and Libby. It was their evident joy in the new housekeeper, their turning to her all the time, almost as if Annabell were not there. When Annabell awoke the next — morning, she found that Clay. Had already risen. She started to dress, and then remembered that she didn't have to hurry quite so fast— she didn't have to rush a breakfast on the table, get clothes onto Libby, and dash away. It was with a feeling of relief that she smelled the bacon frying while she dressed. But the relief vanished when she went into the kitchen and found Libby already at the table, bright and sweet in her red-checked pinafore. Martha's cheerful good morning did nothing _ to make Annabell happier. Clay came into the kitchen with a handful of roses which he handed to WHO LAUGHS LAST ~ Martha as he came to give Annabell his: morning kiss. "This is something like it!" he beamed, taking the table, charmingly set with a low bowl of spring flowers in the center, and sliced oranges arranged in a cherry-topped circle on each blue plate. "Home was never like this," he added unnecessarily. "My, you are all up early!" Annabell remarked tartly. "Oh," Clay answered, "I knew Martha would have a good breakfast for us, so I worked in the garden, so I could do it justice." "Well, darling!" she put her arms about Libby, "you look very nice this morning. All ready to go to grandmother's?" HE had made up her mind, and Clay might as well know it. "Daddy says I can stay here with Martha," Libby answered, over a mouthful of buttered toast. "Martha is going to make sugar cookies." "But, darling, what will Grandmother think?" Before Libby could answer the phone rang, and Annabell turned to take the receiver from the cradle. It was her mother. "Oh, Annabell, darling!" she crooned, "Clay told me about your wonderful luck. Isn't it fortunate? And I'm so glad." "But, Mother!" Annabell interrupted determinedly, "it isn't at all demmite. Imean." "Oh, yes it is, dear. Clay told me all the details. I guess you were so relieved you didn't bother—and it came at such a fortunate moment. I was going to tell you last night when you picked up Libby, only you didn't. 243 But I've been named to the library board—and I've got a great deal of work to do. I don't know what you'd have done if Clay hadn't." "Mother!" Annabell forced her voice into the stream of words. "Mother, do you mean you can't take Libby today?" "Not today or for some time, I'm afraid, dear. You see, it's the library board. We've got to." "Sorry, Mother, I can't talk now. I'm coming down on my way to school. Tell me then." She cradled the receiver and rose from the C table. She picked Libby up from her half-finished meal, wiped her mouth on her napkin, handed her another piece of toast, and carried her out to the car. Clay came to the door. "What's the idea?" he' cried. "Why not leave Libby here? Martha doesn't mind, and it's better for the child." That last phrase settled it. Annabell wasn't going to leave Libby there to be taken in completely by Martha's "motherliness." Phooey! She thought. Mother's _ spoiled Libby badly enough, but then she is her grandmother, and that's what grandmothers are for. But a housekeeper, beaming on the child like that, doing everything to please her! The child would be ruined in no time. As Annabell drove furiously along, her analytical mind insisted on checking over her reasons for her unreasonable behavior. Smiling a little ruefully, she had to admit that it wasn't so much fear of Libby's being spoiled as it was fear that Martha, a mere servant, would 244 swiftly replace Annabell in the child's affection. She hadn't really worried about that with her mother, because her mother was like Annabell, calm and efficient, and not given to spoiling anyone. "Annabell, didn't you~ understand me?" her mother asked, showing her exasperation and annoyance when she saw her daughter and grandchild. "Of course I understood you, Mother. But you didn't understand me. I don't know how to explain it, but I know that woman isn't a regular housekeeper. Oh, maybe she kept house for Bill Dixon—but I'll bet she was his aunt, or something. And look how spoiled Bill was! Have everything just so. Mother, she's the kind of person that men and children just adore." "Well, what's wrong about being that kind of woman, Annabell? Surely," her mother's eyes crinkled at the corners, "you're not jealous? Clay said she was an elderly person." "Oh, that's not it," Annabell retorted, "I'm not jealous of her exactly. But if you'd seen how Clay and Libby looked at her, as if she were—were—well, they don't look at me like that!" she ended lamely, almost in tears. "No?" her mother asked, "do you give them reason to, Annabell? You know I've found that people are like mirrors—remember that silly story you used to read that pointed that moral very clearly? But it's true, nevertheless. If you took time to look at Clay and Libby as if they were something special—took time to spoil them—maybe." — ~ right. Always had to - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951. "IT don't have time—" Annabell began, and then stopped.. "Well, Mother, can't you help me out just once more—can't you keep Libby just one more day?" ER mother shook her head. "I don't see how, darling. When Clay told me you had such a treasure of a housekeeper. I called up Mrs. Wilson and Lou Adams and told them I'd meet them at ten.. Pll have to rush as it is." She looked impatiently at the clock. | "Okay," Annabell said. "It's all Thanks for tending her so much.", She was holding Libby by the hand when she entered the president's office. "T'm sorry, Miss Gleason," she told the president's secretary. "I can't be in my office today. Nor at all this next week. It will be a little inconvenient, I guess, but if you'll just post a notice that appointments will have to be kept at my home—I believe we can manage since there is just a week left." Miss Gleason's eye DION were high. - "He will ask me for the reason, Mrs. Patrick." "A personal emergency," Annabell answered shortly. "Oh, and give him this, please." She handed the girl a long envelope and turned to go. "Your contract!" Miss Gleason beamed again. "You'll be with us next year, then?" "No," Annabell said, ""'it. Isn't. Signed. " She went out of the door and drove home. WHO LAUGHS LAST Martha was singing in the kitchen. Annabell stood and looked at her a moment. 'Then she said, making her voice as calm as possible, "I'm sorry, Martha, but I won't be needing you any longer. If you will tell me what Mr. Pattick agreed: to pay you, I will give you a check for two weeks pay and you may go." Martha looked up, surprised, but cool. "Mr. Patrick hired me, Mrs. Patrick," she said. "I'm oT I can't leave without his consent." "Oh, yes you can!" Annabell's voice was really calm now. "You can complain to Mr. Patrick if you wish, but I simply won't need you. There's not enough work here to require a maid. A taxi will be here for you in half an hour." T was as easy as that. When Martha was gone, Annabell took off her school dress and slipped into a red and white pinafore just like Libby's. She pulled the pins from her hair and tied her dark curls back with a red ribbon. "So you want sugar cookies, darling?" she asked. "Do you want to help Mommy make them?" "Oh, Mommy! Mommy!" Libby danced up and down. "Can I? En lp". "Of course, pet. Here, pull up 'a chair and I'll show you, And then we'll make some strawberry tarts for daddy. He loves them." They were cutting funny shapes from the soft dough when Libby asked, "Where's Martha? Did she go back to Granny's?" "No, pet. Martha doesn't know Granny," Annabell answered absently. 245 "Yes, she does, Mommy. Martha and Daddy and Granny had a party. I woke up and came downstairs and they gave me ice cream." _ Annabell stared at her daughter. "Are you sure, darling? When did they have the party?" "Last day when I was at Granny's.?? Anger flowed through Annabell. She had been right. Martha was no ordinary housekeeper. They had made it up between them—that was why she was all sweetness and light! Of course no housekeeper would put herself out like that! Her mother and Clay had schemed this just because ihe didn't want her to teach; her mother didn't want to be tied down with Libby any more. How childish of them! Why hadn't they simply told her? No, they had gone into this childish plot and she had let them get by with it! Well, it wasn't too late—she could get back her contract and sign it. She could But it might have been real, she thought in panic again. I was more scared than I dared admit, even to myself—Oh, Clay, Clay! I couldn't bear it for you and Libby to grow away from me! She looked at Libby, busily cutting stars from a piece of smudgy dough. Suddenly Annabell laughed and caught her daughter close, kissing the flour-daubed cheeks. "I'm glad!" she cried, "glad it was a frame-up! I'll never let them know I found out!" Libby leaned against her mother and laughed, too. "T'm glad!" she echoed. I? Glad, too, Mommy! "T mh "Now Is the Time'"' Carol Read F lake HE elaborate cutwork design on the pillow case blurred before Martha Lane's eyes and she lowered the hoops to her lap, blinking back the tears that had flowed too freely all day to be easily checked now in her husband's presence. Not that he was apt to notice! Half hidden by the evening paper, Harvey sprawled comfortably in the big chair, his long legs crossed on the ottoman, completely oblivious of his wife's unhappiness. Resentment _ stirred in her, deepening the hurt, the disappointment that had lain like a stone on her heart all this bright spring day. | May second, their daughter's wedding day. Tall, vivacious Dianne had been married that morning in the Idaho Falls Temple to Arthur Rowell. They had been accompanied by the groom's parents, but not by the bride's. Martha bit her lip and resolutely returned to her needlework. "Well, Mother dear," Harvey exclaimed on the end of a noisy yawn, as he folded the paper, "how does it seem to have the first of our _ flock leave the nest?" He watched as she deftly brought the thread around and drew the needle through the cloth. "Still on those pillow slips of Dianne's?" Martha pursed her lips and made no reply. How could he be so insensitive to her mood? How could he sit there, relaxed and complacent, feeling no twinge of conscience? Page 246 ee CC Reaching up, he switched off the lamp and settled back in his chair with another prodigious yawn. "Lovely warm evening for this time of year. Hope it's this nice in the Park. The kids'll have a great time. When'd you say they're coming home?", "Saturday," she answered shortly. "Arthur has to be on the job Monday morning." "Fine steady boy, that Art. Oh, say, I ran into Bishop Jenkins this morning. He was all praise for our Dianne; and said we'd done a splendid job rearing her. I told him, by jing, it wasn't any of my doings, that all the credit went to her mother. And you know what he said? He said, 'Harv, your wife is one of the finest, most faithful women in the ward.'" Martha turned quickly for the floss that lay on the davenport, although her needle was full. She thought with something near hysteria, Why can't he stop? Why doesn't he just go on to bed and leave me alone? "You seem sorta quiet tonight, Mother," he observed after a moment, "I'd think you'd be real happy, having your oldest girl married to a fine young fellow, and in the temple the way you've always wanted for her." And the way I've always wanted for myself, she thought bitterly. But there was no point in mentioning that. Not after twenty-two years. "Phyllis out tonight?" He had risen and gone to peer out the screen door. "NOW IS THE TIME" "No, she's in bed." Martha's gray eyes clouded at thought of their sixteen-year-old. "We may not receive congratulations on Phyllis," she remarked quietly. Her husband turned. "Phyllis? Oh, she's all right. Just in that mixed-up adolescent age." "She wasn't very mixed-up in her scorn and ridicule of Dianne for not having a smart church wedding like Amy Hanford. She says there'll be none of this for her." Harvey's laugh rang out. "That sounds like her, little monkey. She has a rebellious streak, but you can take it out of her." "I?" she queried. "Is it my exclusive job to rear this family? And the boys," she went on, her voice rising, "you know how they are beginning to balk at going to Pri mary—even Sunday School. And Jimmy will be twelve next month." She stopped to let that sink in. HARVEY was back in his chair, but he no longer looked comfortable. "I know it's a problem, Martha. I've left these things to you because—well, I don't set much of an example in the way of attendance and such." He leaned forward, elbows on knees, and studied his clasped hands thoughtfully. "I don't know—I guess I got started off wrong, with my dad so carelesslike. And then my work." His voice trailed off. Martha glanced up, needle poised. "Harvey Lane, you can't use your work as an excuse any longer. You've been off the road and right here in the home office for almost a year. Besides, lots of men who 247 travel find time for Church activity." A car door slammed nearby and their eyes met questioningly. There was the sound of voices and footsteps on the walk. Martha laid aside her work and went to the door. "Why, Kate Rowell," she cried eagerly, holding the door wide. "And Leslie. I didn't dream you were coming back today." "I told Les I couldn't relax any place but home. Oh, what a day!" Kate laughed, letting her shoulders droop and her arms dangle at her side to show how weary she was. "Leslie, old man!" Harvey strode forward to shake hands with her husband. "What does this make us — brothers-in-law? Come _ in, come in and tell us all about it." "This makes fathers-in-law of us, Harv." Leslie smiled his warm, friendly smile as he laid an arm across Harvey's shoulder. "All I can say ls you should have been there, you and Martha. It would have made you glow all over to see what a beautiful bride your Dianne made. Our Dianne,' he corrected, his smile broadening. "And, Martha, Pve never seen her when she looked more like you." "Did she?" Martha flushed, her eyes glistening. "Oh, I wanted to - be there. You'll never know. Kate, tell me," she hurried on in a cascade of words, "was everything all right? Did she seem very flustered?" Kate threw up her hands in protest. "Wait, Martha—slow down," she laughed. "Sit down here by me and I'll tell you all about it. Oh, I wish you could have seen your daughter." She closed her eyes 248. Rapturously. | "Honestly, she. Was beautiful—just like a queen, tall and graceful. But she must have said a dozen times, 'If only mother and daddy could be here with us.' ". Martha, listening with rapt attention, had kept her composure, but at mention of her daughter's wistful remark, something seemed to. Break inside her, filling her throat, choking her. She caught her breath on a sob. Kate's chatter ended abruptly. "I—I'm so silly." Martha managed a shaky laugh. "Acting this way when I'm really thrilled and happy for her." Kate put an arm about her. "I ~ know, darling," she soothed. ""Marrying Arthur off hasn't seemed so bad. But a daughter. Wait till it's Linda," she laughed. "I'll be weeping all over the place." ARTHA ~ was uncomfortably aware of her husband's gaze as she went about tidying the room after the Rowell's departure. "Mother," he spoke at length, "T had no idea you felt the wa you do about being with Dianne." Her hand trembled as she replaced a book in the case, so that another became dislodged and clattered to the floor. She bent to retrieve it. He regarded her soberly. "I've let you down, Martha. I know it and _ T'm sorry.. Marriage in the temple means a lot to you. I guess I didn't realize how much." "Doesn't it mean anything to you?" "Yes," he answered slowly. "I want you to be happy." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL '1951. "Harvey! " she cried. "Tt isn't just for me. It's for both of us— all of us. Holding the book, she came. And sat on the ottoman Staring at him in "Don't you understand' wonder. What. Eternal marriage is? You believe in it?" "Yes. Certainly. For the worthy." "Well?" "What do you mean, Well'? I'm only a teacher." "What does it take to become a priest?" she prompted Benny, "And an elder?" He rose abruptly. "More time than I've got now," he replied, heading for their room. Later." Martha moaned a little, watching him go. 'Don't But it's just the book away. Prayed, help me reach him. Please show me a way., She glanced at the book in her hand so she could put it in, title up, and saw that it was Dianne's Book of Mormon she had used in semiY nary. Opening it from the back, she let the pages ripple past her thumb, noticing how many passages. Were underscored in red. The book came to rest open near the center, chapter 34 of Alma. Her gaze wandered idly to the marked passage: For behold, now is the time and the day of your salvation.... For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.... I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for. Our whole family." Still "Maybe | Later, always later. She rose, sighed deeply, and went to put Dear Lord, she "NOW IS THE TIME" eternity, behold if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed. Martha caught her breath, her whole being electrified. She returned to the opening words, "Behold, now is the time." Now is the time! Oh, Harvey, she cried in her heart, this is for you! If only he would read and understand. She found him in his pajamas adjusting the windows. "Dear," she said, trying to keep excitement from her voice, "I was just glancing through this book of Dianne's. She has this part underlined. Won't you read it? It's some of Alma's teachings." Scowling a little, he took the book and sat down on the edge of the bed. Martha wanted to watch as he read, but fearful of distracting him, she took her gown and went into the bathroom to prepare for bed. He was still reading when she returned and he did not look up. Her heart sank when she saw that he was not reading on the page she had indicated. She said nothing, however, and sat down at her vanity to brush her hair. "Hmm," he murmured after several minutes. "Quite a sermon. But you're wrong, Mother. It isn't Alma." "What?" She rose, deeply disappointed. He had missed the passage. He turned back two pages. "It's Amulek. See, mnght here—'And Amulek arose and began to teach them.' "' 249 "Oh!" He was right. Color rose in her cheeks. But it was from joy more than embarrassment. He had read the entire chapter from the beginning. "Hmm," he said again, moving his finger down the column, "I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance " He raised his head and gazed thoughtfully into space. Martha reached impulsively to lay her hand over his. "We both need to repent," she said earnestly. "We have these wonderful children. We must teach them the gospel and set an example before them." He nodded, pressing her fingers into her palm. "I know. I always mean to do better. I really do, Martha. I guess I just don't know how. And now with Jimmy—" He stopped. "I've been blaming my father's carelessness for my own attitude, and here I am letting history repeat itself." Harvey bent one knee upon the bed, his brow knit pensively. "It takes an awful lot to qualify. I was just thinking about Bishop Jenkins. And Leslie Rowell. They're good men—righteous, worthy men. I could never be in their class." "Harvey," she said in a low, firm voice, "they have only one thing that you haven't. 'That is a strong, living testimony that this gospel is true. That and that alone makes a man Or woman strong in the Church. You know how such a testimony is gained, don't you?" He shook his head lugubriously as he flung back the covers and (Continued on page 282) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" A SONNET "I love you'—ah 'tis but a little thing— A sentence short, three tiny words,—and still, Not poet's art, nor yet musician's skill, Such wondrous happiness can bring As these. O mystery-breathing spell, Come to this heart of mine, and tell The stories garnered through the years. —M. G. McClelland IN MEMORIAM: President Daniel H. Wells never shrank from trials however severe, but grew strong and valiant for the truth, the more he was tried. Making the acquaintance of the Prophet Joseph Smith he became strongly attached to him though then unconnected with the Church. At the time of the exodus of the main body of the Church from Nauvoo, and the remnant that was left being attacked by their enemies after having been promised protection, Squire Wells espoused the causs of this oppressed and persecuted people. His "gallant defense" of the "Mormons" at that time will never be forgotten, his fortitude and courage were "a tower of strength" to those who were defending themselves against their enemies. The story of his valor is graphically told by those who participated in that terrible struggle, when the aged, the poor and helpless were compelled to leave Nauvoo and camp upon the opposite banks of the Mississippi River. He was the last one to leave when the city was evacuated, and was fired upon after crossing over into Iowa. PRESIDENT WELLS A brave true heart, that wore no worldly mask, Nor ever shrank from any proving test, A strong, kind hand, ne'er known to shirk its task Now calmly rest. Eternal One, this Friend hath served Thee well; Thy mercies to his family still increase; For love like his, Thine only can excel, Grant them its peace. —Lula ST. JOHNS STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: The subjects spoken of were prayer, the vision of Nephi, bearing of testimony, influence of mothers over their children, condition of woman among the nations of the earth. E. S. Udall after making some timely remarks regarding the duties of R. S. Presidents, read an article from the Gazette on the "Woman Suffrage Bill" now before the Territorial Legislature. The meeting was a very interesting and instructive one, the remarks being accompanied by that Holy Spirit which brings peace and joy to the soul. —Mary E. B. Farr, Sec. Page 250 HREE women of national interest recently passed away. Hattie Wyatt Caraway, seventy-two, was the first woman elected to the United States Senate. At her husband's death she was appointed to fill his seat and was elected twice, serving thirteen years altogether. Mrs. Ida Ringling North, seventy-six, was a_ sister of the Ringling brothers of circus fame, and mother of the present president of the organization, John Ringling North. Sallie Lindsay White, eighty-one, was the wife of William Allen White, courageous editor of the Emporia Gazette and mother of author-editor William Lindsay White. ARBARA Bidwell, a Utah girl, but a graduate of Kentucky State University, is official hostess for her father, Colonel Bruce W. Bidwell, military attache in The Hague, Holland. With the inflexible protocol of high diplomatic circles in Europe, this is a difficult position to fill. Miss Bidwell has been officially presented at the Netherlands court, held in Queen Juliana's palace. "THE Children's Dance Theater of Salt Lake City, personally directed by the well-known dance artist, Virginia Tanner, has penetrated the "Iron Curtain" by way of the magazine America, which is sponsored by the Department of Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon State in Washington, printed in Russian, and circulated behind the "Curtain." The purpose is to show Russians the American way of life. This unusual group has also been featured in This Week, in National Dance Magazine, and in a movie made by the Swedish Film Corporation. Mess JUNE BARLOW, lovely blonde of Bountiful and "Miss Utah" for 1949, is now serving the Church as a missionary in England. RS. ELLEN ASH PETERSON, ninety-six, of Logan, Utah, cares for herself, crochets babies' bootees by the hundreds, and writes her own checks and birthday cards. She emigrated from England, and was a member of the first handcart company to cross the plains in 1856. At eighteen, Elizabeth Bryan of Salt Lake City won the grand prize in the "Make-It-YourselfWith-Wool" national sewing contest. She is now enrolled at the Traphagen School of Fashion Design in New York, a year's tuition at that school being a part of her grand prize award. N Branches Over the Wall, recently off the press, well-known Utah author, Ora Pate Stewart, retells with clarity, easy-to-follow continuity, and great condensation, the story contained in the Book of Mormon. Page 25] CQ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 38 APRIL 1951 'Sherewith to Be Content" HEN conditions in the world or in one's personal life become a cause of anxiety and worry, there are always paths open for receiving needed strength and increased faith. One of these paths is prayer to the all-wise and loving Heavenly Father, and another path is to study the words given by the Father to his children. Through prayerful reading of the trials and tribulations experienced *by servants of the Lord in all ages of the world, and how they continued "to stand fast in the Lord." one receives a renewed determination not to become disheartened because of his own cares and sorrows. In the revelation to Emma Smith, the Lord commanded, " Thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better" (D. & C. 25:10). Studying the scriptures is of incalculable help in obeying this commandment. The words of one inspired writer will seem to carry a special message to one person, while those of another will heal another's wounds. It remains for every Latter-day Saint to search all the scriptures, and take to himself that which will most comfort and apply to him in a particular situation. Today men and boys are being taken from their homes and sent to many parts of the world. Now one may read of the far-flung missionary journeys of the apostle Paul Page 252 with heightened appreciation and deepened import. Pondering upon Paul's words one realizes that he carried on in spite of sickness and "a thorn in the flesh"; in addition to his heavy missionary duties he, at times of necessity, worked at his trade of tentmaker. As one reads of his loneliness and fears and trembling, one feels drawn nearer in spirit, to this great man. He went through grave persecutions; he was stoned; he was scourged; he was chained to guards in a dread dungeon; yet, in the midst of years of such treatment he penned inspiring and comforting letters to his beloved saints. One to the Philippians he wrote while still in bonds at Rome. Though written particularly to his friends in that city, they are also to all living today who will heed his words. One sentence carries a great message for today: "For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content" (Phil. 4:11). Paul had "learned" in a harsh, even in a cruel school. The "state" wherein he found himself innumerable times was one of physical pain or spiritual anguish. For periods of time the only persons to whom he could pour out his testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ were his gaolers. Yet he accepted those things which he had to undergo in a spirit of contentment, placing utter trust in the Lord. EDITORIAL Are the stressful conditions which Latter-day Saints are now experiencing worse than those of Paul? Should not each Latter-day Saint, forewarned of conditions to exist in the world in the last days, strive to attain to the contentment of which Paul spoke? "For I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content." What an acknowledgment and full acceptance of the wisdom of God is expressed in that sentence! It is a re-echoing of the spirit of the Master when he prayed, "Not my will but thine be done." 'To know the principles of the gospel and to live by them, realizing that the Lord's loving care surrounds 253 one at all times and in all situations, and in all parts of the world, brings contentment to the soul. It is a perfect attitude for a Latterday Saint to acquire, one which will be a source of inspiration to others and an abiding source of joy and contentment to the possessor. Mothers who instil this spirit into their sons who leave home will give them a priceless possession. Their footsteps will be placed on the path along which Paul toiled. They will grasp every opportunity to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ by their exemplary lives as well as by their spoken word. Thus a seeming misfortune may turn to a glorious outcome. —M. C. S. April Flour Leone E. McCune As fragile as a vase of windblown glass, Unreal as all the lovely dreams that pass, As haunting as some half-forgotten tune, Enchanting as a scarlet rose in June, ' An unnamed wish, a piercing, sweet desire, Soft, gold-green days, rain strumming on the lyre; Ethereal the magic of this hour, Brief interlude between the bud and flower. G arden Riches Jeanette P. Parry I sowed snapdragon seeds today Beside the garden walk, And visioned miracles in May Upon each graceful stalk. Such delicate black seeds to hold Rich velvet colors, fold on fold, Rare fragrance for my garden space, And riches for my tall, blue vase. Miracle Marian Schroder Crothers He plowed the land; The warm earth lay in brown furrows In suppliant waiting. From work-worn hands he scattered Back into the ground The seeds from last year's crop. Then patiently, he waited for The miracle of growth again. Tleals of Our Sime Sara Mills In this year of 1951 housewives are particularly interested in preparing thrifty, attractive, and nutritious meals. The following menus are relatively inexpensive, they have an appetizing appearance, and provide vitamins, minerals, and calories. MENU ONE Spanish beans Apple pie or fresh fruit and cheese Tossed green salad with avocado Hot chocolate or fruit punch Hot corn bread or French bread This menu is an inspired one for an outdoor gathering of friends or family, and it tastes just as good indoors any season. SPANISH BEANS c. Red kidney beans 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 small ham hock 2 small cans tomato hot sauce 2 onions sliced 2-3 tsp. Chili powder 1 large bell pepper | salt to taste Wash the beans and soak them overnight in two quarts of warm water. Heat in the same water until the water boils. Drain off the water and add all the other ingredients, with enough fresh water for simmering. Let simmer gently for several hours until the beans are very tender. Shortly before the beans are to be served, remove the ham hock and any surface fat. Shred the ham and return it to the beans. For variation, place the beans in a casserole, sprinkle with your favorite grated cheese, and place in the oven until the cheese bubbles. MENU TWO Chicken tamale Tossed green salad Fresh summer squash or other — Dinner rolls green vegetable _ Fresh fruit compote This recipe came to me from a farm wife. It will serve a goodly number and is particularly appropriate for a potluck supper. If children are to be served, the amount of red pepper and chili powder should be reduced CHICKEN TAMALE 1 large chicken, cooked until tender 1 tbsp. Chili powder 1 quart chicken broth, 1 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Corn meal salt to taste Add the corm meal, chili powder, butter, and salt to the broth and steam in a double boiler about one hour. While this mixture is steaming proceed with the sauce. SAUCE FOR CHICKEN TAMALE % c. Butter or cooking oil 1 tbsp. Chili powder 1 onion, sliced thin, "A tsp. Cayenne pepper 2 cloves garlic 1 small can sliced, ripe olives % c. Flour 4 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 1 can tomatoes (size 2% ) 1 can com: Page 254 MEALS OF OUR TIME 255 Gently saute the sliced onion and garlic in the butter and add the flour to make a paste. Add tomatoes, chili powder, red pepper, olives, eggs, and corn. Lay the chicken in pieces in a roaster or large baking pan. Pour the sauce over the chicken and bake about one hour at 300° F. MENU THREE Chicken tomato soup (thick) | Oven-toasted bread with butter Pear and cheese salad Cake or pudding CHICKEN TOMATO Soup Place chicken neck, gizzard, wings, back, and other bones in a large soup kettle, cover with cold water, and let stand for one hour. Bring chicken to a boil and remove scum. Then add the following ingredients: 6 peppercorns 1 bay leaf 6 sprigs parsley 1 pinch rosemary 1 stalk celery salt to taste 1 carrot. Cover kettle and simmer mixture slowly until chicken is very tender. Remove chicken parts and vegetables and strain. Bring the stock to a boil and add % c. Brown rice. While rice is cooking in the soup, saute in 2 tbsp. Butter, the following ingredients: 1 carrot, diced 1 potato, diced lc, celery, diced 2 tbsp. Chopped onion Saute for about 7 minutes, stirring gently, then add 1 tbsp. Flour and stir until the flour is absorbed. When the rice in the soup is nearly done, add the sauted vegetables and cook until the vegetables are barely tender. Then add 1 can condensed tomato soup and a scant cup of finely cut spinach or young chard. Let the soup boil gently for two or three minutes and serve at once, preferably with grated Parmesan cheese. MENU FOUR Potato chips and tuna casserole Shredded cabbage and carrot salad, Hot muffins with nuts Fresh peas Fruit pie or peach cobbler Potato CuHips AND TUNA CASSEROLE 1 large package potato chips "2 ¢. Chopped green peppers 1 large can shredded tuna "% c. Chopped parsley 1 can condensed mushroom soup "4% c. Grated onion 1 cup whole milk salt "z ¢. Chopped celery pepper In a lightly buttered casserole dish, lay 1/3 of the potato chips, crushed. Add a layer of minced tuna, then a layer of celery, green peppers, and parsley. On this layer sprinkle some grated onion with a light hand. Now add a layer of mushroom soup mixed with the milk. Make, in all, two layers of tuna, soup, and vegetables, and three layers of potato chips. Add salt and pepper to taste, and bake in moderate oven until the vegetables are thoroughly tender, about 45 minutes. Ray Loomis HOLLYHOCKS Page 256 Gardens in Pattern Eva Willes Wangsgaard "A garden is a lyric Man may write in seed " ARDEN colors, like all colors, are most effective when displayed in a pattern, and the simpler the pattern the more effective. Mexican Sash Garden _A design my neighbor uses every year is as colorful as a Mexican. Sash and more dependable than 'summer sunshine. It is a long, narrow garden about four feet deep and extending the length of the front porch, about twenty-six feet. First he fertilizes and pulverizes the soil, then in a row next to the foundation go the dahlias, the great towering species that send out enormous blooms beginning in July. He mixes these colors, but the great bronze beauties dominate. Sixteen inches in front of the dahlias he plants a row of giant African marigolds, then fourteen inches in front of the marigolds goes a line of the new chrysanthemum-like, lemonyellow marigolds followed by a row of. Zinnias. He finishes with a border of tiny marigolds or dwarf zinnias which also border the lawn and tie the whole front yard into a dashing picture that stays bright from July until frost. Many cut bouquets also. Come from _ this simple garden on the south front of his home. Circular Garden _ Another neighbor has a corner curb and a circular garden spot on his back lawn made glorious by Cannas. A small circular garden can be created within an old wagon tire, a larger one can be bordered by rocks, as is my neighbor's. The circle is filled with Canna bulbs in scarlet with a border of sage-green foliage. Cannas also come in pinks and yellows and make beautiful pictures with a border of Blue Cap Ageratum, Little Gem Sweet Alyssum, or violas in white, yellow, or purple. The Canna stalk yields a triple bud which sends out three sets of blooms a season in succession, so that a continuous display results over a period of more than two months. Shade-Loving Flowers If you have a shaded spot the Canterbury bells will love it and reward you with a mass of bloom. However, these are biennials and bloom late in the season when started from seed and reach their height of bloom the second season. The best effect is obtained early by using plants instead of waiting for seed growth. But once started they yield yearly bloom, as they seed themselves and can be transplanted for pattern. During the blooming season their pyramid of bells is a thrilling sight. Another shade-loving flower, and much more glamorous, even exotic, is the tuberous begonia. These luxurious blooms are best secured by buying the bulbs already started by the nurserymen and the florists, as the further along they are at plantPage 257 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Don Knight TUBEROUS-ROOTED BEGONIAS ing time the sooner the blooms begin to decorate your garden. They _ need a little tempered sunlight, very, very rich loam, about one-third sandy loam, one-third barnyard manure, and one-third peat moss, along with plenty of water, including fine daily spraying of the plants themselves. Their exquisite blooms are a continuous delight till frost interrupts. Their color range is wide and can be used singly or variegated. They make marvelous show pieces, floating cut-arrangements, and house plants when the outdoor season is over. Gladioli and Asters A summer without gladioli is like a spring without lilacs. 'They come in such a wide variety of colors that one can plant them in the background of lower-growing plants for color effects, or in clumps around shrubs for naturalizing, or in circles or rows in a garden spot all their own. You can hardly make a mistake on gladioli, but they do require a gardener's eye for thrips, and frequent spraying. Also, it is a good idea to fumigate the soil with one of the commercial fumigating compounds before planting gladioli.: As autumn and asters are inseparable so spring is the time to make sure of them. Such a range of color and variety are offered the gardener that it is harder to hold back than to buy them. One wants them all. But here again restraint pays. A great bed of asters can be obtained from seed planted directly in the garden and thinned later or planted in seed beds and trans- GARDENS IN PATTERN planted to a permanent home. The effect is better if the colors are arranged in schemes and kept down to two colors and a white. Such a generous supply of cut bouquets is assured from an aster bed! Iris for Variety and Beauty The once scorned "flag" has become the aristocratic iris and is now welcome and sought after in any garden and well worth the cultivating. If water is a problem in your garden, the iris is your friend. It blooms early in the summer or late spring on stored winter moisture and requires the minimum of irrigating when the blooming season is over. Such voluptuousness! Such grace! Such delight! And such variety! Every year there are fabulous new varieties introduced to tempt the eye and the purse. Many of the varieties that have been out a few years have unsurpassed beauty Josef Muench JAPANESE IRIS Don Knight IRIS and can be bought at a nominal price, while the newer varieties are collectors'. Items and priced accordingly. The Morh varieties (Elmohr, Grace Mohr, Wm. Mohr, and Or Mohr) are marvelous for colossal size and ruffled luxury in varying tones of lavenders, and there are such beautiful tones of golden yellows to contrast with them in your garden and in your cut-flower arrangements. But irises come in many colors, including reds, blues, and the iciest of whites, all in large, ruffled, showy flowers. You will want an acre of ground to grow irises, and you will need it if you don't use restraint in buying the rhizomes as they multiply rather rapidly. The best way to choose irises is to visita garden in bloom. And note the names of the varieties, then order them by name. They 260. Josef Muench RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 EASTER LILIES are usually planted in the early fall, but may be transplanted in the spring, and again just after the blooming season. Another delightful member of the iris family is the Dutch iris, that delightful orchid-ake variety that the florist puts into: springtime corsages. 'The color range is wide, and Dutch iris plants are hardy if not planted in too exposed a position in a very frosty climate. In northern regions a south-of-a-building location suits them well. Lilies for Exquisite Dignity And lilies! Such lilies as a gardener can grow for herself in these modern gardens! The improved regals that grow ten feet tall and bear up to two dozen great white star-lipped bells with pale green or blush-pink throats, are easily grown. These like deep planting in moist sandy loam with partial shade and then to be let alone. Lilies hate being disturbed. And will reward you amply for privacy. Their little sister, the Madonna, is a hardy and prolific beauty and not too choosy about soil conditions. In front of the giant regal lilies may C be grown the graceful and colorful tiger lilies, and in front of these and sunward, the elegans and centrifolium (Easter lilies) will produce a lovely effect. The lily you had at Easter can be tucked into the soil -as soon as the bloom is gone, but GARDENS IN PATTERN Josef Muench TIGER LILY will not bloom again until the following year, and then perhaps in August, not at Easter. | After all the other lilies are long gone, the Formosanas will raise their stalks of pure white bells to delight you. And be sure to tuck a stately yucca or two among your lilies, and the rubrums will yield you garden grace and cut-flower glory. The day lilies are hardy background and border material, and the corn or lemon varieties are beautiful for spiking peony baskets on Decoration Day. Petunias For simplicity and generosity of bloom, nothing outdoes the petunia. In a planting around a very new home which stands on a knoll with a very sharp slope, the incline 'was planted with Morning Rose dwarf petunias, and the gorgeous mass of deep dawn-pink was breath- 261 taking all summer and late into the autumn. Small borders of dwarf petunias glorified the landscape long after flowers in this locality are usually forfeited to frost. Another petunia picture I shall always remember is of a white cottage with green shutters, banked by evergreen shrubs, with a curving walk bordered with great white ruffled petunias, a symphony in green and white. A singleness of effect is. Usually more striking and memorable than trying to capture all the colors of the rainbow at once in one garden. Perennials Spring is the season to set out your favorite perennials, except for the loveliest of them all, the peony, which requires autumn planting. The gorgeous and generous coreopW. Atlee Burpee ROSE-COLORED, ALL-DOUBLE PETUNIAS 262 sis that adds such a wealth of sunlight to any garden or bouquet can be set out in springtime, along with the daisies—the shasta, _ single, double, and chiffon, the lovely painted varieties from pink through maroon, and the dainty but sturdy columbines. Be sure, though, to get the newer, larger-bloomed columbines, as garden space is too precious to waste on inferior varieties of any flower. The king and queen of the perennial garden, if we except the lovely varieties of peonies which are a must in any yard, are the Pacific hybrid delphiniums and the phlox. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Both of these yield generous summer bloom. 'The delphiniums grow as high as ten feet in favorable sites and yield yard-long spikes of florets several inches in diameter, and in a wide color range from deep purple to pure white. The phlox add fragrance to their pannicles of varicolored beauty and grow less tall so that they can be banked against the delphinium for a stunning background effect. From the great variety of floral forms, colors, and fragrance, select your favorites and plan and plant a garden that will give pleasure until the winter comes again. — Two Sunsets Juliaetta B. Jensen THE CRUCIFIXION I saw a sunset from my hill So dark and drear, foreboding, All my heart with fear was still, Black clouds frowning from beneath, above, 'Shut out all hope of peace and love, One thin, red streak as if of blood, _ Was all I saw in that dull, dark, western sky, ' One moment, and even that was gone. My path blacked out, and with a bitter cry, I fell upon the shaking earth, and wept alone. THE RESURRECTION The next night, I saw another sunset From my hill, so different My heart was still, and lifted up With joy and hope and peace. It was as if some artist from on high Had dipped his brush into the rainbow dew And painted all the western sky With pastel colors of every hue; That shouted to the heavens about, above, Of One who gave his all for love That you and I might never die. For the Strength of the Hills CHAPTER 3 Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan from California, is the new schoolteacher in Crandall, Idaho. She becomes interested in Stanley Rodgers, a young farmer. During the first big snowstorm Camilla walks home with one of her students and is caught in a blizzard. Stanley rescues her. That night he tells her that they always keep the red-headed schoolteachers in Crandall. AMILLA had written blithely to her aunt that she was marrying Stan as soon as school was out, and that, because of his work, they would have to wait until winter to come down to Callifornia. Then they would come down for a nice, long visit. She ended by saying, "You'll be simply crazy about Stan. Everyone is." She really believed that it was so. Not even Aunt Lillian, she thought, could be proof against his charm. Her aunt replied with a note of congratulations and wishes for her happiness, which Camilla was sure She had tried very hard to write sincerely, even if she had failed. She also sent a set of sterling silver, which Stan remarked might come in handy to pawn if the crops failed. "Indeed we won't pawn it," she retorted. "We're going to have things as nice in our home as if it were located on Malibu Beach, and there'll be much nicer people living in it," she ended, smiling. After their marriage they spent a week at Sun Valley, where it was rather quiet because of being in between seasons, and where they rode horseback, swam in the lovely pool, took long hikes over the hills, and learned with new surprise each day how completely in love they were. "It's been awonderful week," said Camilla, with a sigh, as she sat back in the car to begin the tide home. "Imagine! My one and only honeymoon, and it's ended." "Well, I should hope so," replied her new husband. "I mean your one and only honeymoon. You don't really think it's ended, do you?" "Of course not," she agreed snuggling down against his shoulder. "Our marriage is really going to be different. I know that a million other girls have said that, but not one of them married you." When, at the end of the ride, they drove up to the farm that Stan had bought—"or rather made a down payment on the chicken coops," as he put it, she looked at the big, ugly house that she had never been inside of, and thanked her stars that she was indeed very much in love. "Gay old castle, isn't it?" asked Stan lightly, as if reading her thoughts. "But we can do something with it. How about painting it pink? Don't they do that in California?" "Sometimes, but this house isn't quite the type," grinned Camilla. "But it would look rather nice painted white, with red roof and shutters." Page 263 264 "Okay, Mrs. Rodgers. We'll start in the morning. Right now we'd. Put our best see where Mom has doodads and if Mickey has let the stock starve to death." The "doodads" were their wedding gifts, which his folks had promised to bring over and place in the house. Camilla hoped wildly that. The inside would be better than the. Out but, as she stood in the front room after Stan had gallantly carried her in, she had all she could do to nesp back her dismay. The ceilings-were high, the woodwork plentiful and old-fashioned. The paper on the walls a nondescript brown. The only redeeming feature was a huge fireplace, with really good, simple lines. "Did anyone ever live here—with walls looking like this?" she asked. "Sure. Lived, loved, and prob ably liked them this way," he answered airily. "How about making the inside pink, if you won't consider it for the outside?" He went back to the car for their bags, and Camilla slumped down onto the bumpy gray sofa that had come with the place. "Patience, my girl," she said against her rising dismay. "You can change all this. You can even have big windows cut to open up a view of the mountains." HE got up and walked over to _ the east window. "There is nothing wrong here that I can't change," she said to the distant peaks. "I can be strong, too."". Having thrown out her challenge, she turned and went into the bedroom to change to a house dress. _the window was a sink. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 She supposed that Stan 'was out looking over the place to see how things had fared under his young brother, so she went on into the — kitchen to prepare supper. Here was a fresh shock. Against one wall was a great black cooking range, such as she had imagined existed only in books written about the so-called gay nineties. Beneath "At least there's running water in the house," she said, somewhat in surprise. On — the table was a box of groceries, thoughtfully provided by Stan's mother, several bottles of fruit and jam, and two loaves of freshly baked bread. | She put the things away in the cupboards and set the table with one of her pretty luncheon cloths. C Then she ran outside and gathered a few sprigs of the larkspur that. Was growing by the side of. The house. I'lt have lots of flowers, too, she thought - happily, pansies, roses— everything.. 'She was grateful that she didn't have to tackle cooking anything in the big black stove tonight, since Mrs. Rodgers had left plenty of food for their supper. But she - couldn't resist the feeling that it lay in waiting, a dragon ready to do battle for supremacy. Stan was late coming in from His chores, and her hunger, along with her weariness and dismay at the ugliness of the house, came close to disheartening her. She managed to smile when he finally came in, however, and greeted him with, "I hope you don't mind dining 4 in the kitchen?" ) "Not so long as sl''m dining with royalty," he answered, picking her FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS | up and swinging her high in the 'air Then. He added. Seriously, "Just keep smiling, ladybird. Ll have everything the way you want it some day. I promise." The next morning she found it much harder to keep smiling, for the time had come when she could no longer delay black range. Stan had built the fire and gone outside to his work when she came into the kitchen. She managed bacon and eggs without too much difficulty, but found it impossible to toast the bread with anything approaching evenness. "They talk about a bride's burned biscuits," she moaned, "and I can't even toast bread." _ She had used up half a loaf trying to get four slices that would suit her, when she was struck by a still grimmer thought. Where was more bread coming from when this. Was gone? Not from a bakery or corner store. Farm women made their own bread, and she was a farm woman now. —, Later in the day she began telling Stan her plans for the house. "We'll begin in that east window," she said. "It can easily be cut two or three times its present size. 'Then we'll paint all the walls and woodwork. I want them light. Pale blue would be pretty. Then we'll cover this old furniture with some bright flowered chintzes. I'd like a Mexican kitchen—bright blue, yellow, and red. Doesn't it sound gay?" "It sounds terrific," Stan agreed, "and if I didn't need such a lot of farm machinery we'd start tomorrow. But the crops have to come first or there'll never be any money battle with the 265 for the rest of it. Right now I could sink every last dime into a tractor." "Can't we even do the window?" she pleaded. "We have to get that cut out before we can touch the walls anyway." "Sorry, dear, but we really can't. Cutting out windows is a rather expensive proposition. I can manage paint for the kitchen. We'll go into town tomorrow and stock up on red, yellow, and purple paint." "Blue—not purple," she corrected, and managed to smile in spite of her disappointment. THEY bought the paint, and she found that doing the inside of her kitchen cupboards was all she could manage that summer anyway. Her entire time seemed to be taken up with putting things into cans—berries, peas, string beans, cherries, and apricots. The season for canning one crop would barely be over before the next started. Mrs. Rodgers came over with her pressure cooker and the two of them worked in the hot kitchen, with a roaring fire in the coal range until the perspiration streamed from their faces. More than once Camilla thought that it would be far pleasanter and more comfortable to go hungry. "T don't see why you come over here and slave," Camilla remarked to her mother-in-law one day. "You have all of your own work to do, and then you come over here and help do mine, too." "Work is never half as hard for two as it is for one," replied the older woman, and then added with a faint smile, "I was a bride, too, once, you know." 266 "What kind of a home did you come to?" asked Camilla curiously. "One that would have made this house look like a palace. It had two rooms—or rather, a room and a 'lean-to,, and we homesteaded the land, which meant that not a furrow had been turned. I had a funny little cookstove with only two lids. Steven made all the rest of our furniture. But we were very happy. Happiness is never a matter of worldly goods. At least, I've -never found it so." "At the moment I can't help thinking that a deep freeze would make me extremely happy,' said Camilla, pushing back her hair with her sleeve, "and save both of us a lot of work and discomfort." "You're quite right," agreed Mrs. ~ Rodgers, "and I hope that you get one before too many years." "After an electric range, a trefrigerator, and a big east window," recited Camilla. The summer, with all its heat, work, and discomfort, finally passed away, and she viewed the rows of. Bottles on her cupboard shelves with considerable pride. With canning and gardening done for the season, she decided that she could take time to go on with her plans for painting the interior of the house—especially now that the potato crop was sold and there was money for at least a part of the necessary materials. We'll go to town Saturday, she thought complacently, but on Friday evening Stan came in and said, "The bank roll is busting out all over. Want to take that jaunt to California?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 "Oh, Stan, of course!" she cried in delight. "It will be wonderful to show you off to all my friends." "Well, that wasn't exactly what I had in mind," he returned dryly, "but I don't want your Aunt Lillian to think that you've gone back to the good earth for good. When shall we leave?" "Um—next week. Will the bank roll allow for a new suit? I'd hate to have my friends say 'My goodness—the same duds she was wearing here a year and a half ago.'" _ "The bank roll is yours, dear, as far as it will go," he agreed, "just leave enough for potato seed next spring, a chicken coop, and a harTOW.": "T thought so," she laughed. "Also, the paint for these rooms, that I've been dying to get at all summer. But I'm going to have a new suit just the same. It will be fun to shop at-Bullocks and Mays again. Another thing I'm going to have is a manicure,' she added, looking ruefully at her work-roughened hands. "And I'll wear mitts with cold cream from now until the time I leave." "Are you trying to scare me out?" asked Stan. "I'm afraid that I have just a touch of dishpan hands, too." - "Of course not," said Camilla quickly, but she didn't wear the mitts, and she didn't have a manicure, even after she had arrived in California. From the Los Angeles station they took a bus out to Santa Monica and then a taxi up to the white stucco house. "Whew!" said Stan with a low whistle as they went up the walk. FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS — "Do I bow to the butler or does he bow to me?": "Don't be a goose," she retorted. "There isn't a butler, or even a maid. Just a cleaning woman a couple of times a week, unless Aunt Lillian has changed mightily. She can't get along with help in the house. Nobody ever does anything C to suit her." "Including choosing a husband, I expect." To which Camilla merely shrugged and opened the door. HE front of the house was empty, and she looked around with delight at the lovely rooms that had been home for so many years. As her eyes traveled over the soft blue carpeting, the inviting arm chairs, and the charming pictures, she realized that she had missed them more than she had ever admitted to herself. As she met Stan's glance she gave him a bright smile, slipped her hand in his, and led him out to the patio in the rear which she knew to be the most likely place to find her aunt. She was sitting in a garden chair, reading a book and, as Stan would have said, "Dressed to the hilt." She greeted Camilla with somewhat restrained affection, then offered her hand to Stan, saying, "And this is the wonderful husband?" "This is the husband," amended Stan. "This is the wonderful husband," repeated Camilla, with emphasis. "Now you must sit down and tell me all about Idaho and your farm," 267 her aunt went on in her "grand dame" manner. "It's simply marvelous!" exclaimed Camilla. "You never saw such mountains! And the colors in autumn are unbelievable. The hills are simply covered with gold and crimson." "And your house?" "It's a big old place," she went on, with the same enthusiasm as if she were describing a French villa. "T'm going to have a circus doing it over. You know how I love to dabble with interior decorating? Well, this really gives me a challenge. _Next summer you'll have to come up and see it." "How nice," was the noncommital reply. Then she added casually, "I've invited a few friends in for tonight. 'They're all so eager to see you again." "Tonight!" gasped Camilla. She was about to add, "But we're barely off the train." Instead she said, "That was thoughtful of you. It will be fun to see everyone again. How many are coming?" "Oh, maybe thirty or forty. I'm having a caterer serve light refreshments out here in the garden." After lunch, when they were unpacking, Camilla said, "We've got to dash into town and buy you a white jacket. There's probably more to this affair than she lets on and I won't have you looking out of place." "You mean I have to dress up in a movie star outfit?" he demanded. "T'd feel and look like a chump." "You'll look like Sterling Hayden, or better. You've a much better sun tan and your eyebrows are stunning." 268 "Okay, ladybug, if you say so," he agreed. "This is your party and we'll go down fighting." "Your metaphors are mixed, but your attitude is beautiful," she said, picking up her bag and hat. —— on, let's go." They bought the white vate, ~ and Camilla was immensely proud of her husband as she presented him to her old friends that evening. Aunt Lillian insisted upon introducing him as the owner of a huge ranch in Idaho, and he was equally insistent upon correcting her, until she finally gave up and allowed him to be a plain, ordinary potato farmer. When it was over, Stan asked, "Now, do we get to enjoy ourselves the rest of the time?" "We do," she answered firmly. "We'll do all the fun things there ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 are to do in this part of the country. 3?: They did have fun—in. A way. If they could have gone off by. Themselves they would have had a delightful time, but most of.. Their days were spent with Aunt Lillian, and she was never anything but coolly polite to Stan. At the end of two weeks Stan asked Camilla, "You wouldn't be getting a trifle homesick for the sagebrush and wide-open spaces, would you?" She thought of: the big; -ugly house and the coal range, and for an instant was tempted to echo, "T wouldn't." Instead, she. Smiled and said, "That's the 'wrong' approach, and you've no business making a sale, but you did. I'm ready to go back whenever you are.' (To be continued) Anticipation Maude O. Cook I gathered from the garden of the years The seeds to plant in fertile fields today;: I watch with patience, through the smiles and tears, — _ For blossoms to adorn some future way. Shat I lay See LeRoy Burke Meagher Time _ Must be quarried carefully, 'Gathered piece by particle, Cupped frugally and bosom-tight, "Fhat I may see another dawn ~) Brightening the clovered meadow _ While robins - Wing out from the new-leafed elm. Prayer Beatrice K. Ekman Father, I think thee for my sight _ That sees the beauty of the night, | That sees the changing seasons pass,, The green of sedge, of meadow grass,. The trees that fling their branches Nah, The drift of clouds across the sky. °°. ~: O-let me have the grace-to'see My brother's need of being free. Enlist in the Sight Against Cancer Lucybeth C. Rampton Utah Division, American Cancer Society Tt there is as yet no known cure for advanced cancer is general knowledge. But do you know that early cancer can often be cured? It is true—early cancer can often be sy This is the message which the American Cancer Society is striving to bring to every person in this country. If cancer is diagnosed early and given prompt treatment, it can be destroyed and a third of the lives lost to it each year can be saved. This knowledge is of particular importance to women. Cancer strikes women principally between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-five—the years when the loss of the mother usually means a broken home. By far the majority of these cases are cancer of the breast or of the cervix. Yet informed women know that of all types of cancer, breast cancer is most easily controlled if it is detected early. Seventy per cent of breast cancer victims can be saved by early diagnosis, and the same is true of cancer of the cervix. Cancer attacks children, too. We associate the disease with middle and old age; but cancer each year attacks more children than do measles, whooping cough, nd fever, diphtheria, and poliomyelitis combined. Cancer in infancy and childhood pro gresses more rapidly than it does in later life. Happily, though, cancer in children responds more readily to X-Ray therapy. It is therefore imperative that these cancers in the very young receive early diagnosis and proper treatment. Not all stricken children can be saved yet, but many can if they get help in time. _ Women are practical. If a danger confronts them, they want to take positive action against it. What can you do to provide intelligent protection for yourself and your family? The American Cancer Society offers the surest answer. The Society is a nationwide organization of the highest integrity, working closely on both national and state levels with the American Medical Association. Until the riddle of cancer's origin can be solved through research, the Society is convinced that at least a third of the lives now lost to the disease could be saved through education.... Over and over again the Society prints and distributes its "seven danger signals" of cancer to which you should be alert: Any sore that does not heal. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. Unusual bleeding or discharge. Any change in a wart or mole. Persistent indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. Persistent hoarseness or cough. Any change in normal bowel habits. > ittce Ge Emphasis is laid on the fact that these symptoms do not always mean cancer, but that only professional diagnosis can determine the facts. What, then, can you do about cancer? You can learn the facts about the disease, including the seven danger signals, and act promptly and sensibly if they appear in your family. You can insist on periodic check-ups for the entire family. And you can contribute generously to the American Cancer Society—financially, of course, and by volunteering your services if possible. Page 269 — Favors for Baby Showers Clara Laster F you've ever attended a stork shower, you will remember the importance of refreshment time. Do you recall the attractive favor by your plate? The hostess probably spent more time fixing those gay little charmers than on the food she served. Most of us struggle to find an original idea. Favors are important. The hostess can enlarge upon the idea and carry out the theme through her entire party. "Baby Bonnet Favors" Let us, for instance, consider the bonnet theme, and plan favors accordingly. Buy some plain nut cups, one yard of net, one roll crepe paper, one sheet construction paper, and some narrow ribbon. Yellow is a very popular color for babies these days, so these materials may be this color, or any other color you desire. The idea behind this favor is to fix the nut cups to resemble baby bonnets. Cut round lids for the nut cups and paste pictures of babies' faces on top. After the cups are filled with nuts, the lids go on, and the finished favors will look like babies wearing bonnets. The bonnets are easy but you will need a stapler, thread, needle, and scissors to work with. The bonnet brims are made from construction paper, then covered with net. The nut cup is covered first with crepe paper, then with net. The brim is stapled to the nut cup. A narrow strip of mbbon is used to hide the staples and is _ Page 270 to make, made into a bow and placed under the chin of the baby picture, which you have cut out and pasted to the lid. If you desire to enlarge upon this | favor idea, serve cookies in the shape of a bonnet. You might try making a large bonnet from half of an oatmeal box. You could place cut flowers in a glass, and fit the glass into the large bonnet. This makes a charming centerpiece. "Baby in a Wagorr' Another unusual favor is very easily made. I call it "Baby in a Wagon." You will need some matchboxes, crepe paper, gumdrops, toothpicks, and a stapler. First, cover the bottom of the matchbox with crepe paper. You will have to use a stapler here, and the paper must be just large enough to cover over the inside to be stapled down. If you are at a loss as to how the crepe paper should fit on the box you might tear a matchbox apart and use it as a pattern for cutting the paper. When you have the box covered, make the wheels of gumdrops, and attach to the wagon by running toothpicks through the box, one at each end. Stick a gumdrop on the end of each toothpick. When this is done, fill the wagon with gumdrops. If you are good at drawing, take white construction paper and make a picture of a baby sitting down. Fill in the details with an art pencil, cut the drawing, and set it on top of the gumdrops. If you prefer a fancy wagon, glue FAVORS FOR BABY SHOWERS a narrow piece of ribbon around the wagon and tie it in a bow. These favors are really very attractive. You might wish to make a large wagon for a centerpiece and serve pinwheel sandwiches to carry out the theme. "Baby in a Swing" Another unique favor which calls for gumdrops is worked out with a "swing" motif. You could use any other soft, small pieces of candy. You will need, also, some colored toothpicks and a number of very small dolls. The small dolls can be bought at five and dime stores for just a nickel. To make the swing frame, use five toothpicks and eight gumdrops. 'The idea is to slant the picks into the gumdrops to resemble the swings in your park. Take a toothpick and run it through two gumdrops. Then place one gumdrop on each end, with the bottom of the gumdrop downward. Now, place the other toothpicks into the end drops. After this is finished, break a pick in two and make the swing. You will need two more small gumdrops and a small piece of a toothpick. Place a small doll in the swing. You can tie her in with ribbon or tape her in. Either way, this is a cute favor. "Play-Pen Favors" For making the play pen you will need 24 small gumdrops, 8 whole toothpicks, and six toothpicks broken in halves, making twelve shorter picks. Take four whole toothpicks and place four gumdrops on each pick, two in the center of each pick and one at each end. Then place two gum drops in the center 271 of each of the remaining four whole toothpicks. Now you have completed the eight bars of the play pen. For the top you will use two of each of the two kinds of bars, and two of each, also, for the bottom of the play pen. Take one of the bars containing two gumdrops. And insert the end of the toothpick into the gumdrop at the end of a bar containing four gumdrops, and then repeat this process with the other two bars for the top of the play pen. For the bottom of the pen use the four remaining bars in. Exactly the same manner. Use the twelve half picks to connect the top and bottom bars, first at the four corners, and then to join the two center gumdrops at the top and the two center gumdrops at the bottom on each of the four sides of the play pen. The sides of this play pen will be rather low, but will fit a very small doll. If a taller doll is used, whole toothpicks may be substituted for the half picks in making the bars which connect the top and bottom of the play pen. Place a square cookie on the bottom of the play pen to represent the floor. "Rosebud Favors" Select small pasteboard boxes and wrap the bottoms of them with plain-colored crepe paper or decorated gift wrapping paper. Fill the boxes with nuts. 'Then make a rosebud of ribbon or crepe paper, attach it to a wire stem and place it in the box. Then cut frofn a magazine or a greeting card the picture of a baby's head. Paste a narrow strip of heavy cardboard to the 272 'back of the baby's head,-allowing an 'extension of about two inches to insert into the center of the rose- -bud:. Attach firmly with a pin or with a stapler. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 "Many of your guests will take the favors home with them. That is-a compliment to the hostess'andyou will feel well repaid' for: making unique and ote favors. <> — That Shelf Space Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson A little mezzanine shelf fitted into the back of your dish cupboard will make use of some of that wasted q 4 space. It need not be wide—three or four inches is enough to hold a row of cups or glasses. Cut a strip of. Shelving carer long enough to slide easily into your cupboard. Sand it smooth, and paint it to match the interior. When it has dried thoroughly, fasten it on- _ to small blocks of wood also painted and nailed to the sides of the cupboard. Or, using the. Little angle irons which can be purchased at the ten-cent store, screw the shelf in place. 4 @ APPLE SAUCE OR FRUITCAKE Alice Bartlett Be c.. Sugar c. Vegetable shortening c. Unsweetened apple sauce (quite thick) 2 tsp. Soda scalded in 2 tbsp. Hot water 1 ~~ "tsp. Cinnamon N= 1 tsp. Cloves 1 'tsp. Allspice 1% c. Raisins 1 c. Nuts any other fruit you care to add c. Plain flour "2 tsp. Salt Cream sugar and shortening together in a mixing bowl and add the apple sauce 'and the soda dissolved in water. -exc@pt 1 c. Of the flour. Of flour into the raisins and add to mixture. Sift dry ingredients into mixing bowl. Then measure into a sifter all of the dry ingredients Stir the remaining 1 c. Add the nuts. | _.. Bake for 45 minutes in a moderate oven, 375°. _ This is a cheap cake—no eggs, no milk, no butter, and it is a very good cake. JANE BYBEE COLTRIN MAKES QUILT TOPS AS A HOBBY Dunc the 1948-49 season, Jane Bybee Coltrin, seventy-four, pieced eighteen beautiful quilt tops for the Boise, Idaho, Third Ward Relief Society. Many of - the patterns were unusual, and all of them were exquisitely stitched. Sister Coltrin has been a Relief Society worker for many years, having served as president of the Hazel Ward Relief Society, Boise Second Ward Relief Society, as a counselor in two wards, as a work director, and as a class leader in theology, literature, and visiting teacher message leader. She has also served on the Boise Stake Relief Society Board. At present she is a member of the work meeting committee in Boise Third Ward and an active visiting teacher. She has reared nine children and has thirty-eight great-grandchildren, and is an excellent example of the old saying that a woman who already has many responsibilities' is the one to call on when you want to get something done. Work has made Sister Coltrin a happy and a useful woman in her home circle and in Relief Society. Peach Srees in Bloom Mabel Jones Gabbott Through pastel-tinted days the peach trees blushed, Until one rain-swept night their bloom was crushed; I grieved for broken petals at my door;. It was not that I loved the blossoms more Than promised fruit beneath each grecning leaf, But that their beauty was so brief. Page 273 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 Photograph submitted by Dulcie W. Francom JUAB STAKE (UTAH), LEVAN WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR NINE MONTHS President Dulcie W. Francom is seen standing at the nght on the second row. This large group of visiting teachers has achieved this record by careful and devoted observance of their duties, and have experienced great joy and satisfaction in this phase of Relief Society work. Lyle C. Pratt is president of Juab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Reta F. Broadbent WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, BUTTE (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINS AT SOCIAL, October 24, 1950 Front row, seated, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Lillian McVicars; Counselor Elodies Hamilton; theology class leader Harriet Millecam; Ellen Anderson; Carol Ann Summers; Elizabeth (Granny) Jensen, the honored guest; Sadie Burt; President Lura Henderson; Lillian Hubber, visiting teachers message leader. Back row, standing, left to nght: Vazale Denning; Ellen Powell; Erna Rowe; Ardelle Pitts; Bernice Turner; Beulah Ford, work meeting leader; Marjorie Burt; Alene Summers, social science class leader; Gladys Hewett; Margretta Osborne; Pearl Emmett; Glee Potter, literature class leader; Viva Hailstone; Wyona Dobb. Sister Jensen, age ninety-eight, who was especially honored at this social, arrived in Salt Lake Valley before her tenth birthday. Today she enjoys good health, lives alone, and does all her own housework. Reta F. Broadbent is president of the West Central States Mission Relief Society. 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Photograph submitted by Florence D. Benson PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), PAROWAN WEST WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE SUCCESSIVE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Rebecca Miller; Verda Orton; Cora Rowley; Alice Stevens; Florence D. Benson; Bertha Matheson; Sara Hulet; Alice Holyoak; Nanie Eyre. "- Second rew, left to right: Dorothy Rowley; Mary Stubbs; Anna Rasmussen; Louise Robinson; Mettie Robinson; Mamie D. Orton; Della Marsden; Ida Smith; Amelia Topham; Mildred Gilger; Lillian Heap; Zilpha Dalton. | Third row, left to right: Grace Burt; Rebecca Smith; Ramola Smith; Libbie Matheson; Eva Taylor; Elizabeth Lyman; Nellie Dalton; Merle Rasmussen; Lily Ward; Eva Robinson; Twila Thornton; Arvilla Mortensen. Back tow, left to right: Phebe Taylor; Clara Benson; Marie Crawford; Margaret Stubbs; Leone Lyman; Sara Crawford; Vilate Joseph; Eulala Orton; Monta Warten; Retta Reed; Janette Bayles. Edna S. Hatch is president of Parowan Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter | DENVER STAKE, CHEYENNE (WYOMING) WARD VISITING TEACHERS _. ACHIEVE 100: PER CENT RECORD FOR 1950 Front row, seated, left to right: Marie Ward; Catherine Ovard; Mary Cherry; Vida Birge; Second Counselor Frances Carter; Lois 'Wilde. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Back row, standing, left to right: First Counselor Luella Brown; Ida Williams; Hazel Boyack; Jane Davies; Nona Schilling; President Verda Hatch; Thora Nelson; Alta Atark; Ruth Yeoman. Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports that these sisters are unusually faithful in attending their duties as visiting teachers: "They have accomplished the excellent record of 100 per cent. Their districts are widely scattered, and they travel many miles to make their visits. They have made three times as many visits during 1950 as were made the previous year." Photograph submitted by Holly W. Fisher WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, EDMONTON BRANCH HOLDS FIRST BAZAAR IN NEW CHAPEL, December 1950 At left, Second Counselor Alberta Maxwell; and at right, Secretary Rhoda Rodgers. The bazaar was under the direction of the Relief Society presidency: Jean Low, Elizabeth Hammond, Alberta Maxwell, and Rhoda Rodgers. Sister Emma Sheppard was in charge of the linens, and was assisted by Jessie Houle and Pauline Prince. The toys and dolls display was under the direction of Rhoda Rodgers and Alberta Maxwell, assisted by Melba McMullin. Elfonda Marshall directed the art display, and Marie Low had charge " of the quilts, with Enid Hass and Esther Strate in charge of the aprons. Other sisters in charge of booths and displays were: Marguerete Low. Dorothy Muirhead, Lois Bennett, Ruth Walker, Sara Tanner, Maurine Miller, Beth Spackman, Ruby Walker, Lorraine Wood, Amy Sykes, Urinda Wood, and Martha Johnson. Thee were twelve displays at the bazaar. Holly W. Fisher is president of the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society. 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Photograph submitted by Vera B. Farnes BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BURLINGTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY: PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, October 3, 1950 Left to right: Margaret Preator; Rachel Snyder; Mary J. Cottrell; Sarah McIntosh; ~ Ila J. Tonkvich, present president. All of these women are still active in Relief Society work. A former president, Harriett Johnson, is now living in Salt Lake City, Utah. Amelia H. Robertson is president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ida S. Hendrickson SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), HOLBROOK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, August 16, 1950 Left to right: First Counselor Gertrude Nickols; President Rowana Crowther; Second Counselor Peggie Anderson. This bazaar featured a large and varied display of children's clothing. Many beautifully trimmed aprons, handmade clothing for infants, embroidered pillowcases, and many small items, including table mats and pot holders. Jams, jellies, cakes, bread, pies, and candy were also sold at the bazaar. Ida S. Hendrickson is president of Snowflake Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 279 Photograph submitted by Mary Isabell Cassity STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), THAYNE WARD YOUNG MOTHERS WHO ARE OFFICERS IN RELIEF SOCIETY Center row, standing, left to right: Secretary Velma S. Broadbent; Second Counselor Ada H. Aullman; First Counselor Shirley C. Dean. Standing at the back: President Vera S. Humpherys. Nellie B. Jensen is president of Star Valley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Florence N. Singleton COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FESTIVAL "AROUND THE WORLD WITH SONG," June 1950 This large group of Singing Mothers presented musical selections from many nations. Seated in front are children and young women costumed to represent some of the countries and nationalities portrayed in the musical renditions. " + The organist, Lu Baker, is seated at the right on the third row, and second from the right on the same row, the chorister, Myra Cassity. '. Florence N. Singleton is president of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. 280. < RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL:1951 Photograph submitted by Alice L. Voyles SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE, CHARLESTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ENTERTAINS AT A LUNCHEON FOR VISITING MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL BOARD October 27, 1950 Eleventh from the left: Ruby Evans, Secretary, Charleston Ward Relief Society; thirteenth from the left (wearing light-colored hat), Breta McBride, First Counselor, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Alice L. Voyles, Stake Relief Society President; Florence J. Madsen, member, General Board of Relief Society; seventeenth from the left (wearing hat), Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Jean P. Hyde, First Counselor, Charleston Ward Relief Society; Alyce O. Hanna, President, Charleston Ward Relief Society; Beatrice Mazyck, Baden Counselor, Charleston Ward Relief Society. Photograph 'submitted by Annie R. Parker CARBON STAKE AND NORTH CARBON STAKE (UTAH) COMMEMORATE | THE SIXTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN PRICE, November 5, 1950 ~<: Front row, seated, left to right: Enid Bean, President, Price First Ward Relief Society; Ramona Walter, President, Price Second Ward Relief Society; Sarah Jane: Warren, who, as a child, attended the first Relief Society meeting in Price; Margaret NOTES FROM THE FIELD _ /. 281 Ann Horsley, the only living member of the first Relief Society organization in Price. Back row, standing, left to mght: Neva Jackson, President, Price Third Ward Relief Society; Harriet Hammond, President, Price Fourth Ward Relief Society; Crystal Guymon, President at the time the Price Ward was divided, and one of three living former Relief Society presidents; Della Higgins and Hannah Goodall, former presidents of Price Ward Relief Seciety, before division of the ward. Annie R. Parker is president of North Carbon Stake Relief Society. A New Outlook Caroline Eyring Miner "HOW long since you tried doing something new and different during your spare | time?" my good friend Mary asked me. I had been complaining about how monotonous life was. I was startled. For years I'd been doing the same pillowslip patterns, reading the same kind of books, listening to the same radio programs, doing the same things over and over. I needed a face lifting in my leisure time activities. In the county recreation program at that very time a class in painting was being offered for adults. I had never painted and felt self-conscious even about the presumption that I could, but at Mary's insistence, I went to the first class. We sat on the lawn and sketched poplar trees against the beautiful Wasatch Mountains as a background. We learned how to proportion the picture, how to get interest into it. I was fascinated. I kept going to the class, and I made a number of pictures that really surprised me. After the class was over, I invested in some paints and other supplies, and I have found a new interest; my appreciation for the art of others has increased; my world has become a little larger. @ @ @ @ One Sime Glimpsed Iris W. Schow We have no time to watch the fountain play, Or let a winter sunset hold us long; Machines drown the soft murmur of the rain, And stress deprives us of the robin's song. _ We pass the lily by at duty's word; One instant from our grief we give the rose, While heedless of our impulse or our dream, Relentlessly life moves toward its close. Yet on the path of memory we find We have adorned the milestones of the years With beauty noticed glancing up from toil And glory we have one time glimpsed through tears. 282 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 '"Now Is the Time'"' (Continued from page 249) got in. "I don't know as much as Jimmy." Martha wanted to cry out to him, Pray, Harvey. Pray with me now. But he had turned his back and was burrowing down on his pillow. She stood a moment gazing at him, then knelt, alone as always, and poured out her heart's gratitude for Amulek's testimony. It had stirred her husband to thought. If it could stir him to action the battle would be almost won. [N the days that followed Harvey made no reference whatever to their discussion. Although Martha had purposely never moved Dianne's book from the night table, as far as she could determine, neither had he. On Mutual night when she asked if he would like to come with them, he replied without even glancing up from the magazine he was reading, "No, I've got to telephone one of the salesmen after a bit." It was as if their conversation had never been. 'The bright hope she entertained at first began to fade and she felt heartsick that what she regarded as an almost miraculous incident should have failed to bear fruit. Only her eager anticipation of Dianne and Arthur's return saved Martha from complete despair. On Saturday, from noon on, she found herself straining for sight or sound of the familiar green sedan. The day wore on and night came with no newlyweds. Just when Harvey suggested calling the Rowells to see if they had received any word, the telephone rang. It was Dianne, her voice vibrant and breathless, as she explained that they had arrived an hour or so earlier, but were simply swamped getting settled in their apartment, and on top of that Bishop Jenkins had been over talking with Art, and all in all it looked as if they couldn't possibly get over tonight, and did she mind terribly. Then, almost on the same breath, she exclaimed how absolutely perfect everything had been and how marvelous it was knowing that she and Art were married forever. Although Martha thrilled while her daughter spoke, she felt drained and empty the minute she hung up, so let-down in spirit that life seemed an unbearable burden. For the thing she had been counting on so heavily was spoiled. She must pass on to Harvey another secondhand account that Dianne was "simply thrilled with everything." He had missed the glowing enthusiasm and spontaneity of her first report, the ring of pure joy and gratitude that could not be transmitted in retelling. "What the dickens do they have to settle in that two-by-four apartment of theirs?" Harvey grumbled, rattling his paper in annoyance. "Looks like she could have called sooner. Saved you all this fretting." Martha nodded absently, thinking with a little twist of pain how strange it was going to seem to have this child live elsewhere than home. "NOW IS THE TIME" [ seemed barely five minutes later that they heard the blare of a horn, a very familiar horn. They sprang up together. "T didn't think the little monkey could stay away," Harvey chuckled, hurrying to the door. "Daddy!" Dianne rushed to embrace them both. "Oh, Mums, this husband of mine," she cried, disengaging herself to go into his arms. "Do you know, he threatened to beat me when I told him I'd telephoned that we couldn't come over tonight?" } Harvey beamed with pleasure as he grasped the young man's hand. "Good for you, Son. You want to use a firm hand with this young lady." Arthur Rowell had the same warm, friendly smile as his father. "I figured on coming all along. Bishop Jenkins." "Oh, yes," Dianne exclaimed eagerly, her dark eyes wide with pride. "He's given Art the most wonderful assignment." Arthur glanced at his bride, visibly embarrassed. "Well, honey, you don't know what I had in mind," he said quietly. "It wasn't to boast about the assignment, because it isn't a big job or anything, although it—well, it's mighty important and I'm going to need plenty of help from the Lord and several others." "Sit down, Arthur—all of you, and tell us all about it." Martha was impressed with the boy's humility. "Well, Bishop Jenkins spoke to me about this a couple of weeks ago, wanted me to be giving it some thought." He smiled rather apologetically at his bride, who sat close 283 beside him on the davenport. "I didn't tell Dianne because—well, I was thinking. Tonight when I mentioned it to the bishop, he really went for the idea.". He raised his head and looked over at Harvey, who sat with a polite, interested smile. "The bishop has asked me to take charge of the Adult Aaronic program and try and work out something to interest the men and reactivate them, so to speak. He said I was to select one from the group to assist in making visits to the others, and so on." He leaned forward intently. "I keep thinking of you, Mr. Lane, and how I'd like working with you." ARTHA stopped breathing. Her eyes flew to Harvey, who was wearing a look of utter stupefaction. "Oh, darling!" Dianne hugged her husband's arm _ ecstatically. "That's a perfectly marvelous idea, having daddy." "Everyone likes you," Arthur went on. "I know you'd have some good ideas on approach." He laughed. "After all, you're a salesman." Harvey shook his head slowly. "Arthur, that's a big job, all right, and you're just the one for it. But I sure don't feel that I'm the one to assist you." "I wish you would consider it, Sir," the boy urged. "The Bishop was really enthusiastic about having you." The room was silent, all eyes focused on Harvey, who sat with his chin on his clasped hands, thoughtfully chewing a knuckle. Finally he turned, smiling, to Martha. "What was it Amulek 284 BEAUTE UL 3 PART CHORUSES WOMEN'S VOICES - Beautiful Dreamer ___..___$.16 aim By the Waters of Minnetonka.._.16 a Dear Land of Home 615.---- Green Cathedral 0 18 1 Hear a Forest Praying _ _ "40 = I'll Take You Home Again Kathleen _ sesssesecsae SO 1.2In the Time of Roses L12 a Let All My Life Be Music.20. O Entrancing Maoh - mann ccpatnnnnp oi ee Trees ne § Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE ' Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 45-47 South Main + Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. (J On Approval. UJ Charge CO) Money Enclosed Name Address eeceeeeccecceeceeeeeneeeeececeececceeseeeescecenseeee CO ee | FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY Da anes= 45-47 souTH MAIN STREET Le SALY LAKE CITY 9. UTAH moved quickly the. Situation. - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 said, 'Mother—never procrastinate? This is the time to do your good works—something to that effect." C He stood up, facing Arthur. "Well, Son, I guess you can' try me. But you'll find me mighty green—or maybe rusty is the word." He took out his watch. "What time is Priesthood meeting?" Arthur and Dianne rose as one, their faces beaming. "At nine, Sir. [ll call by for you."., "Oh, Harvey—Harvey " Martha to his side and slipped her arm through his. "Well, Mother!" He smiled a bit self-consciously, as he patted. Her hand. "Looks as if I'm about to become one of those fanatics I was talking about, doesn't a?" Herman and the Birthday Dinner (Continued from page 230) party was on the scene. She was headed for the gate that led to the house. Herman gave another roar, and I turned to see him plunge at the red sweater. I felt Sue hide her face in my dress, and I closed my eyes to hide the awful thing that was about to happen. I strained my ears for Mariar's scream, but instead, it was father's voice, clear and commanding. "You old heathen! What do you think yous 're doing!" There is nothing sweeter wher situations are tense than the telief. That. -comes with complete faith in-someone who will: handle I. Opened my eyes, knowing that father had made things right. He was ramming a HERMAN AND THE BIRTHDAY DINNER | pitchfork at Herman. And Herman was backing off like an exploding volcano, while, shaken and white, Mariar leaned against the apple nee. SUE was crying aloud as she used to when she was a little girl. She reached over and took the dish towel that I had been unconsciously winding around the fence post. She wiped her face and handed it back to me. "Sanny," she asked, "how could I have been so selfish? Here Mariar would have given her life for mother, and because she has crooked eyes and a funny nose, I would have denied her our birthday dinner just to make an impression on some old guy who teaches us how to parse sentences." "Oh, Sue, darling!' I sobbed, with my arms around her. And then we were both crying together. "Come on, Sanny,"' she said, breaking loose, "we must invite Mariar to the birthday dinner." "And don't you suppose," I suggested, wiping my eyes, in turn, on the dish towel, "that we could scoop out the middle of the squash and make a nice table decoration?"' "Of course," said Sue, leaving a piece of her plaid skirt on the orchard fence. "And if Mr. Burton doesn't like it, we'll feed it to him for dessert." That night as I was going down the hall to bed I heard mother saying to father, "No, John, we won't get rid of Herman. He isn't really bad. You see, I had a problem tonight I didn't know how to answer. It was Herman who solved it' f@r me?" 285 This Beautful Art ls Easy and Fascinating "LEARN NETTING" 7 ta + Pe etapa CLS be a shows fifteen beautiful designs — Doilies — Handkerchiefs — Baby Bonnets — and other lovely items. Kit comprises five plastic mesh sticks and steel needle, with pictured self instruction book, $ 3 50 and 10c for postage and State tax. If not in your department store write The ARTCRAFT PRESS Manufacturers 217 Beason Bldg. — Salt Lake City, Utah A Useful and Inexpensive Gift NOW Is THE TIME TO ORDER MIA MUSIC for the June Conference 'Psalm CL (150) The Voice of Freedom. Andalucia Promised Valley Suite Passing By Onward Christian Soldiers A Snow Legend Amaryllis And all other MIA Music We have a complete stock ALSO SPECIAL ANTHEMS and all other music for RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street SALT DARE CITY, UTAH 286 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built 2e~s All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W extend a cordial 4 invitation to our L. DS. FRIENDS to visit our beautiful new Store. Salt Lake Knit $4 South Main Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1951 Our April Short Story Writers Hazel K. Todd, North Salt Lake, Utah, is the wife of a civil engineer, and the mother of five children. She is the theology class leader in her ward Relief Society and speech director in the M. I. A. Mrs. Todd tells us: "Writing is a hobby I want very much to follow, and always promise myself I will do something about, but seldom get around to. Perhaps some- | time I will fulfill this desire.' Mrs. Todd has already been introduced to readers of the Magazine through her two published stories: "Sweeter Than Any Story" (April 1948) and "Through the Darkness" (April 1949). Deone R. Sutherland is the daughter of George Cecil and Linnie Fisher Robinson. Her mother is a well-known and gifted Utah poet, and Deone, who now lives in Evanston, Illinois, is also beautifully combining two careers—motherhood and writing. Her husband, Harold Pratt Sutherland, is a medical student at Northwestern University. A graduate of the University of Utah, she was editor of the Pen and active in dramatics. Deone tells us that the best thing that ever happened to her was the birth of "Hal" Jr. In December 1948. Six of Mrs. Sutherland's delightful short stories have already appeared in The Relief Society Magazine. Olive W. Burt is well-known to our readers as the author of many poems, articles, short stories, 'and serials which have been published in the ~ Magazine during the last ten years. Mrs. Burt is an author of national reputation, and her stories and articles have appeared in many magazines and newspapers. Some of her recent books are: Prince of the Ranch, Canyon Treasure, and Adventure in Buckskin. A member of the editorial staff of the Deseret News Magazine, Mrs. Burt has contributed much to the success of. That excellent publication. She is the wife of Clinton R. Burt and the mother of three children. OUR APRIL SHORT STORY WRITERS Carol Read Flake, Boise, Idaho, is the wife of Dennis E. Flake and the mother of six children. She writes as follows: "T still conduct the theology class in our ward Relief Society and enjoy giving the splendid lessons prepared by Brother Don B. Colton, my former mission president. My time for writing continues to be extremely limited. I had a story in the November Improvement Era and they also purchased a short article of mine." Two of Mrs. Flake's stories have been published in The Relief Society Magazine "Sudden Storm (September 1948) and "And All Eternity" (April 1949). <—_- Who Has Loved the Garth Christie Lund Coles He who has loved the earth, To the earth returns, Knowing well its gentleness, Knowing how it burns Beneath the fingered, summer sun, How cool it lies beneath bright rain. He who has seen its blossoming, __ Knows its green comforting of pain. He who has pushed the bladed plow, Has seen the dark clods move and break, Comes reconciled, at last, as one Returning for a loved one's sake. Spring Fashions Ruth H. Chadwick Gray veiling streams across the sky From Mother Earth's new hat; Beneath its folds gay colors lie, An impish flower mat. A turquoise band holds all in place, ' And anchors down the swirls Of wispy gauze that frames her face, Scalloped round with curls. A gusty breeze torments the frills, And rumples up the flowers; It piles the veiling up in hills That spell sweet springtime showers. 287 PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. Thee: Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah — She Silence Margery S. Stewart No house can be so very still As one where a small boy lies ill The turbulence of rattling trains, Or noisy balls, or clattering chains, Or noisy things all youngsters do Is lost in silence creeping through The empty rooms. The clock is heard And creaking boards that once were stirred By sturdy feet that stamped or ran Now make their presence clear. No ban on trinkets, let them grace The little tables in their place. Their lovely dullness shows how much A house demands a small boy's touch. Been m Tear oat Sar - Each year on my. Birthday my. Dear mother sends me a subscription to The - Relief "Society Magazine—and what a wonderful gift it makes. I read it from cover to cover, enjoying every word, especially the Literature of England section and all the wonderful articles on home decorating. My husband also enjoys reading the Magazine. - —Cora H. Crompton, Chicago, Illinois ~ Because of the illness of my husband | I have been unable to contact the Magazine agent and I do not want to miss any of the Magazines. I am mailing direct to you, hoping I will not miss a single copy, for we as a family enjoy so much having this wonderful Magazine in our home, with. Its many faith- -promoting and encouraging articles that help us to meet life with our chins up and to really appreciate the wonderful joy and _satisfaction our gospel gives us. —Mrs. Annie N. Farley, Mesa, Arizona 'I am crippled and have to walk on crutches, so I never go out of the house, and I love to read those good. Stories in the Magazine, _such as "We'll. Always Remember" by Inez Bagnell (February 1950). That is a very good story. When my children were small they would say, "Read us a story from the Relief Society book," and when they were older they would ask me to find a good story for them, —Mrs. Rose Herzog, Logan, Utah 'The Magazine is a source of inspiration and strength to me, not only in my Relief Society duties, but in my home activities. As. Well. —Verda P. Bollschweiler Salt Lake City, Utah "May I. Add. A word to the many comments on The Relief Society Magazine. It is like a splendid dinner, a variety of all good things that everyone enjoys. —Nan §S. Richardson, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 288 I am really enjoying the Magazine, and am thrilled with the new music department. —Florence H. Dye, Firth, Idaho Tam writing because I enjoy The Relief Society. Magazine so. Much, and my husband also enjoys reading the stories and poems. After we have finished reading the magazines I send them to my mother who is confined in a hospital. —Mrs. Lila Cunningham, San Bernardino, California The Relief Society Magazine is a joy and inspiration to me. Especially do I enjoy the lovely poems scattered through its pages. —Mrs. John A. Gardner Alameda, California I enjoy the Magazine very much out here. We are forty miles from the nearest Relief Society, and I am, of course, teaching school. I loan my Magazine to others who enjoy it as well as I do. - —Matia McClelland Burk Gandy, via Garrison, Utah I have taken The Relief Society. Magazine for the past eleven years and before that time enjoyed it in my mother's home. It has always been an inspiration to me. —TIsabelle Dunn Hanson Shelley, Idaho To say that I enjoy the — is an understatement. It is thoroughly a publication of excellent reading. —Mrs. Lincoln E. Robinson Murray, Utah I read the Magazine practically through at one sitting, then when the feverish desire to read it all has been satisfied, I find I have a whole month to study it over and gain the deeper purposes of its messages. —Emily Wilkerson, Roosevelt, Utah New Editions and New Books - - - A MARVELOUS WORK AND A WONDER $1.75 BY PRESIDING BISHOP LeGRAND RICHARDS A first book for investigators, missionaries, teachers. It clarifies the fundamental principles of the restored church, comprehensively, convincingly. 350 pages. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS COMMENTARY --.-22---.---e-eeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeee$5.00 A newly revised edition, 922 pages. Principles explained and revelations placed in historic settings. GREATER DIVIDENDS FROM RELIGION $1.75 BY DR. GERRIT de JONG, JR. Religion, the generous enricher of life for the strong and the weak, rich and poor, famous and obscure. Ideas full of spiritual power and buoyant resolution are the ready rewards for reading this strong book. OUTLINES OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY $2.25 BY B. H. ROBERTS A new printing of an old favorite, by a master teacher of the restored gospel. Four principal parts relate the facts about the establishment of the Church of Christ in ancient times; the "famine" for the word of the Lord and its consequences; the revolution called the "Reformation"; and the Restoration with the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH and our dealers everywhere. (All prices subject to change without notice) Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Rayon Crepe Romain Basic A Rite-Fit classic with polish, poise and femininity... Poised in black or navy feminine with dainty white lace collar (can also be worn without) polished off with matching buttons on front of waist~ and pockets. Inverted ' pleat. 12% to 20%. ZCMI READY TO WEAR Downstairs Store Mail orders filled. State size, color. Add 17c¢ postage for each dress ordered. Utah residents add 2% State sales tax. DOWNSTAIRS 
