THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 JUNE 1951 No. 6

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

President David O. McKay—An Appreciation by Stephen L Richards 364
Stephen L Richards Sustained First Counselor in the First Presidency by John A. Widtsoe 369
The Most Recent Call of President J. Reuben Clark to Service in the First Presidency by Henry D. Moyle 373
Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Sustained as President of the Twelve Apostles by Mark E. Petersen 377
Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells by LaVern W. Parmley 381
Contest Announcements — 1951 384
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 384
Relief Society Short Story Contest 385
Let's Write a Poem by Alberta H. Christensen 386
Let's Write a Story by Alice Morrey Bailey 387
Nursing — A Lifetime of Satisfaction by Elaine Mellor 401
Conservation Looks to the Future by Helen C. Payne 411

FICTION

Polly Played for Keeps by Sylvia Probst Young 393
For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 5 by Mabel Harmer 402
How Dad Became a Salesman by Luzelle S. Eliason 408
Christine's Extravagance by Beth Bernice Johnson 415

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 388
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 389
Editorial: The Blessing of Work by Marianne C. Sharp 390
In Memoriam — Emma Lucy Gates Bowen 391
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 420
From Near and Far 432

FEATURE FOR THE HOME

Let's Bake Bread by Josie B. Bay 398
Bad Habits Are Like Weeds by Naomi B. MacCabe 416

POETRY

How Much a Heart Can Gather! — Frontispiece by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 363
June by Iris W. Schow 372
Charmer by Pansye H. Powell 372
Sunday in the Country by Christie Lund Coles 377
Yet Man Heeds Not by Mabel Law Atkinson 381
June by Grace Sayre 381
Fragrant Memories by Grace Barker Wilson 385
Night From Capital Hill by Margaret B. Shomaker 385
Summer Noon by Beatrice K. Ekman 385
Creative Gardener by Ruth H. Chadwick 392
Question by Matia McClelland Burk 392
Lost Love by Nelouise Fisher Judd 392
Mother and Daughter by Genevieve J. VanWagenen 397
Only the Bees Remain by Mary Gustafson 419
The Unraveling by C. Cameron Johns 419
I Love My Little Kitchen by Lydia B. Egbert 426

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

So practical is this French crepe ice-breaker frock you'll love it from the first moment you slip into it. Wonderfully washable. Choose either a short or long sleeve.

Short Sleeves in lilac, aqua, gray or navy. Sizes 12 to 20; half sizes 16 1/2 to 24 1/2.
Long Sleeves in lilac, aqua, gray or navy. Half sizes 16 1/2 to 24 1/2.

DOWNSTAIRS STORE

Solid Colors as above with long sleeves only; sizes 12 to 20 only.

Mail Orders Promptly Filled.

ZCMI HOUSEDRESSES
Downstairs Store
Salt Lake City, Utah

Josef Muench
JOSHUA TREES IN SPRING

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
VOL. 38, NO. 6 JUNE 1951

How Much Can a Heart Gather!
Eva Willes Wangsgaard

The chestnut's chubby candles
Are lighted, tier on tier;
The locust bells are scented
And not a sound to hear.

The hollyhocks are steeples
With pink and yellow bells
Whose tongues are stilled in pollen
Where mystic rhythm swells.

Delphinium spires are reaching
Forever up and up;
The bells of morning glories
Swing high to make a cup.

How much a heart can gather
For dark impatient hours
While walking through a garden
In conference with flowers!

The Cover: "Blossoms in the Desert,' Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen. President David O. McKay —An Appreciation Sustained President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 9, 1951 President Stephen L Richards Of the First Presidency PRESIDENT DAVID OMAN McKAY { osit under the spell. Of a handsome, magnetic presence and listen to the exposition of the gospel of our Lord, embellished with touching, impressive illustrations and incidents, has been the experience of many thousands within and without the Church of Christ who have been privileged to hear the eloquent | sermons and addresses of our beloved President, David O. McKay. For more than forty-five years this able, devoted servant of the Lord has carried on his ministry not only in all the establishments of the Church on the continent of Page 364 America, but also throughout Europe, the islands of the seas, and in nearly all of the continents of the world. A teacher by profession, he has brought, to the edification and stimulation of people, the finest characteristics of that noble art. Few, if any, within the community of the Church have ever been able to use the art to such high purposes as has he. He has been a teacher of children and adults, and a teacher of teachers. In his capacity oR general superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, he did more than any other man of his time to systematize the orderly teaching of the gospel and the establishment of effective procedures in that largest of all the auxiliary organizations of the Church. There are thousands of teachers all over the land who have developed their love of the work and a capacity to inspire youth in large measure through his inspiring instructions and example. His capacity for effective ad ministration arises largely out of his consideration for others. His deep sympathies are easily touched, and he so generously bestows his love that it begets eager response in others. He is quick to recognize the PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY—AN APPRECIATION 365 good in his associates and accord full measure of praise for every contribution. His courtesy is unfailing and genuine, in evidence with all whom he meets, young and old, rich and poor. He is impeccably honest and creates an atmosphere of trust and confidence wherever he goes. This altogether too brief sketch of the public life of our President cannot be expected to convey to the stranger any adequate idea of the personality, the charm, and strength of this good man. But perhaps to the members of the Church it may serve in a meager way to recall impressions which have come to thousands upon thousands durDAVID McKAY AND JENNETTE EVANS McKAY PARENTS OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY David McKay, the father, was born May 3, 1844, in Thurso, Scotland, and died November 17, 1917, in Ogden, Utah. The mother, Jennette Evans McKay, was born August 28, 1850, in Wales, and died January 5, 1905, in Ogden, Utah. Brother and Sister McKay are buried in Huntsville, and Brother McKay deeded the old family home to the eight children as common property, to which all could return for companionship and enjoyment. The McKay brothers and sisters often go back to this home for holidays, and for special occasions. The home is beautiful and spacious and the surrounding grounds provide opportunities for many outdoor activities. 366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 THE FOUR SISTERS OF PRESIDENT McKAY At front, left to right: Jeanette McKay Morrell; Elizabeth McKay Hill. At back, left to right: Katherine McKay Ricks; Ann McKay Farr. All of these women have been active in Relief Society work for many years. Sister Morrell was formerly literature class leader in the Twelfth Ward in Ogden, Utah, and is now theology class leader in that ward; Sister Hill has served on the Liberty Stake and Bonneville Stake Relief Society Boards and also as theology class leader, at present she is visiting teacher in Yale Ward, Salt Lake City, and a member of the advisory committee of the Mormon Handicraft Shop; Sister Ricks has served as literature class leader in Logan Fifth Ward; Sister Farr has been stake Relief Society president in Smithfield and Benson stakes, serving in this capacity a total of sixteen years. PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY—AN APPRECIATION 367 EMMA RAY RIGGS (McKAY) AND DAVID OMAN McKAY AT THE TIME OF THEIR MARRIAGE ing the many years of his devoted public service. Among the readers of this Magazine, there will be many who will recognize in the foregoing account an omission which must not be ignored even in this short statement. It is his remarkable capacity for friendship and affection. This talent with which he has been so richly blessed cannot well be set out in words on the printed page; it is something that must be felt and experienced to be appreciated. Those who have looked into his loving eyes and seen the smile on his handsome countenance, and felt the warmth of his handclasp, and the pressure of his embrace, will understand. He can make a friend feel like a blood brother. He can cement and fuse his own soul with the soul of a kindred spirit. He can transform worldly friendship into a bond of such intensity and durability as to invest this noble relation with divine character. He is a living exponent and exemplar of the true brotherhood of Christ. With such a precious gift as his endowment, both inherited and cultivated, it is not difficult to imagine his beautiful relations with his beloved wife, Emma Ray Riggs McKay, their children and kinsfolk. I have been a witness over many years to the exquisitely beautiful family life of this devoted husband, father, and brother. It is no wonder that the love of his kinsfolk has encircled him, protected and en couraged him for many long years. They have but requited the affection and deep solicitude he has ever had for them. 368 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, HIS WIFE, EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY, AND THEIR FAMILY Front row, left to right: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President David O. McKay; Lou Jean McKay Blood; Llewelyn R. McKay, Ph. D.; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, left to right: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. One son-in-law, Dr. R. Russell Blood, a Commander in the United States Navy, was absent from the group, as he was serving with the United Nations forces in Korea when this photograph was taken. He is still on active duty in the Pacific. I have tried but have never been able to express the gratitude I feel for the high privilege of being admitted to the circle of his intimate friends. If I may be permitted to remain within that circle for the period of this life, and for the life to come, I shall feel that I have won a blessing of incomparable value. It is thus I pay a brief and humble tribute to this noble man, faithful and exalted servant of the Most High God, lover of mankind—my friend. President Stephen L Richards Sustained First Counselor in the First Presidency, April 9, 1951 Elder John A. Widtsoe Of the Council of the Twelve HERE is strength in Zion. That is never more evident than when official vacancies in offices of the Church are to be filled. Only a few weeks ago, after the demise of the beloved leader, President George Albert Smith, men were at once found to constitute the First Presidency. 'They are strong, intelligent men, David O. McKay, Stephen L Richards, and J. Reuben Clark, Jr., who stand shoulder high with the foremost in the world. That is the way of the restored Church, whether in ward, stake, or general concerns. Looking back over the years, there seems always to have been men ready to meet the issues of the day, and to carry forward the Lord's work. If there are more problems in this wayward age, there is also more strength among us with which to give battle to evil. Latterday Saints look upward with secure eyes. Progress is assured within the restored Church of Christ. Stephen L Richards who was called to serve as President McKay's first counselor comes of a lineage distinguished for faith, intelligence, loyalty and courage. In the troublous days of Nauvoo, when enemies were hounding the Prophet's life, Willard Richards, the grandfather of Stephen L, waited upon the Prophet, and made the dire trials easier to bear. At length in Carthage Jail, Willard Richards was by the side of the PRESIDENT STEPHEN L RICHARDS Prophet when the fatal shot was fired. His brief account of the assassinations ls a Mormon classic. He later became a counselor to President Brigham Young. Stephen L Richards was born of Emma Louise Stayner and Dr. Stephen L. Richards on June 18, 1879, in the village of Mendon, Cache County, Utah. There and elsewhere as the family set up a home, conditions were primitive in terms of modern comforts. The. State was just emerging from pioneer surroundings, after a grip to the finish with an unfriendly desert. But, toil and struggle, with ultimate conquest, only made pioneer Page 369 370 blood rich in courage. Stephen L's forebears had not been afraid, he was not afraid, but wise in compelling the world to come to his terms. At twenty-one he married the girl of his choice, Irene Merrill, also of distinguished ancestry, and herself a personality to match wits with the best. Her kindly humor is today good medicine for all who are fortunate 'enough to be her friends. To them were born nine children, four boys and five girls, _ of whom seven are living; stalwart citizens of the State. The family is an example that should be followed in this decadent age when children. Are often accounted a burden. Then came the necessity of a life's career. He had already taken a brief whirl at the ranch and at school teaching, the memory of which still thrills him. A_ force within him, a longing for knowledge, drove him to books. He would have become a magnificent teacher had he adopted the profession; but the choice fell naturally upon law. After studying general subjects at the University of Utah, he took up the study of law at Michigan University and completed the course at Chicago University where he graduated with the LL. B. Degree, cum laude (with honors) In 1904. |: Brother Richards' mind is analytical. He dissects and puts together again in better form the ideas presented to him. He has walked through life a careful, ob-. Serving, and tolerant judge of men and affairs. That has been a foremost characteristic, one that has made him useful in his every underRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 taking, and will serve the Church well in his new calling in the First Presidency. IS gift of good judgment, always based upon the examination of facts, was early recognized by his fellows. He practiced law successfully; was city attorney for Murray City; instructor in law at the University of Utah; secretary for the Utah Bar Association, and Utah representative of the American Bar Association. It was a loss to the Bar when his Church call ended his professional labors. It followed that a mind so constituted would become interested in business. Indeed, business needed him and called for his help. Brother Richards' business career is also outstanding. He is connected with prosperous enterprises in many fields: sugar, land, cemetery, oxygen, banking, merchandising, power and light, coal, books, oil, furniture, and others. All of them are stronger for his association with them. A Civic duties, many as honorable rewards for valiant service, have been thrust upon him. They all carry the insignia of service, else he would not have accepted them. He served with distinction as a regent of the University of Utah, a member of the State Board of Corrections, State Chairman for Utah State Works Administration, and others of like importance. To the Rotary Club he has given steady attention. He has taken pride in honoring his ancestors in his membership in the Sons of the American Revolution. To minor but important causes he has given liberally STEPHEN L RICHARDS of his time, strength, and substance. | Stephen L Richards is not the usual type of business man who grabs for money first and last, and lowers the respect of people for the necessary and altruistic path of commerce. 'True, he has been successful, how could he avoid it? But not to the surrender of the high ideals of life. His innate courtesy to all people whether high or low, his generous estimate of people and their works, friend or foe, marks him a true gentleman, whom it is good to meet. He takes a deep interest in the "other fellow" who gives him loyalty in return. Even in heated debate, and Brother Richards will fight for his convictions, he is fair to the antagonist who is not wounded nor made to feel inferior in defeat. 'This graciousness of life and action is an integral part of Brother Richards' make-up. His soul responds quickly to all that is lofty and beautiful. Fine words well placed and spoken; the artist's conception well designed; the sunshine peering through nfted clouds after the rain; the morning glow on the mountain; the tumult of color when the sun sets; the simple beauty of the pine tree after the snow. Such everyday things find a response in him because he has a living soul. Lovers of beauty will find support in Stephen L Richards. Men _ without artistic souls find it difficult to visualize the purposes of God for man. He is a lover of nature. During his free days, it is a pretty sure guess that he may be found in his canyon home, or in his boat on the lake, or at the right end of a fishpole, or trying out the latest model 371 of an automobile. Where nature reigns he sleeps well. In the great peace of nature his own mind hnds peace. Really, in all his work he reaches out for perfection. That is why he loves the beautiful. Any one of 'his conference sermons shows the meticulous and persistent care given to every word and turn of a sentence. Such an objective requires work, and much work, of which he is not afraid. The cause he represents is entitled to all he can give. That is his guiding principle of acticn in and out of the Church— though in his philosophy every act and need of man may find proper place in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Att this and more lifts Stephen L Richards to unusual heights among men, and betokens a person highly endowed by nature. But there awaited him world-wide service, the greatest of all. As a lad he took interest in the organizations of the Church. In May 1906 he was called to membership on the general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union. There he served so well that when George Reynolds died Stephen L Richards was appointed second counselor in the' superintendency in April 1909. The superintendent then was President Joseph F. Smith, and the other counselor was Apostle David O. McKay, now President of the Church. To be an associate of such men was a great education for the youthful man. On January 18, 1917, he was or dained an apostle and set apart as one of the Quorum of 'Twelve Apostles of the Church. With the 372 call, dreams of leadership in law and other activities vanished. He stood before the Lord charged henceforth to carry forward the latter-day work. He accepted the call and its challenge with the certainty that the Lord's work is the greatest in the world, and that it will eventually vanquish all enemies and cover the earth. So, for thirty-four years, in season and out of season, often at real sacrifices of physical comfort, he has traveled over the Church, preaching, teaching, leading, and pleading, under the spirit of revelation. 'The people have learned to know him and to love him. His work has called him to South America, Europe, Asia Minor, and some of the islands of the sea. Hundreds of commissions have been well consummated by him. When he speaks his words resound with knowledge, and an understanding of God's purposes, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 for present needs. Such service to the Church means sacrifice to all members of a family, but the reward in making men fit for the building of God's kingdom, surpdsses all the gifts of earth. The people listen joyfully when the splendid voice of Brother Richards, a beautiful natural endowment, is heard carrying to the world the eternal call to repentance. The people welcome Stephen L Richards in his new position. As a member of the First Presidency every power will be used for the benefit of the Church. He knows the gospel, he loves it; he loves his fellow men; he trusts the conquering nature of the Priesthood of God; and he will strive to listen when the 3) voice of Jehovah speaks. Thank God for President Stephen L Richards. May he long be preserved to us in health and strength. >< - Analogy Inis W. Schow An opening umbrella in the rain Has always held for me a subtle charm, Remindful that our little acts of care Can make a small safe world within a storm. Charmer Pansye H. Powell Lulled by the gentle, soothing touch of sound Falling on thought like rain on thirsty ground, What man is there who never has been wooed By music's magic from a bitter mood? If he is happy, music is as gay, And in his sorrow charms his grief away! President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Called Back as a Counselor in the First Presidency of the Church Sustained Second Counselor in the First Presidency, April 9, 1951 _ Elder Henry D. Moyle Of the Council of the Twelve FE, had read repeatedly of the many accomplishments of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., prior to his initial call to the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. His work had already distinguished him as a man of great capacity. A lifetime of effort had fully him for that office, which first came at a time in life when most men retire. Now, added to this, is the experience of the last eighteen years to further qualify him for present membership in the newly organized First Presidency to serve President David O. McKay as he has served President George Albert Smith, and before that, President Heber J. Grant. His career in public service as an international lawyer, soldier, and - teacher was. Distinguished. It was climaxed by his appointment as Under Secretary of State, and United States Ambassador to Mexico. Nevertheless, his crowning achievement, a result of a humbler activity, is and shall ever remain his service in the cause of the Master and his fellow men, as a member of the First Presidency. No words can do justice to a life such as his, unselfishly devoted to others. Men in high places have qualified. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. For years borne record of his accomplishments. For example: President Hoover in a letter accepting President Clark's resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, wrote among other things: "Never have our relations been lifted to so high a point of confidence and cooperation and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States." Secretary of State Stimson declared: "Your distinguished service as American Ambassador to MexPage 373 374 ico has reflected signal credit upon our Department of State." When President Clark was appointed Ambassador to Mexico, one newspaper printed the following: Mr. Clark stands among the few diplomats of the first order that the West has produced. It is somewhat unfair to Ambassador Clark, however, to say that the West produced him. As a matter of fact, J. Reuben Clark, the Ambassador, is the product of J. Reuben Clark, the student, the investigator, the worker and the faithful servant of the government. There is no finer example of a man who has risen through sheer merit in the whole history of the foreign service. Mr. Clark is responsible for his own success. Throughout his life he has scorned political favoritism and has expected every man to stand on his own feet. This crowning achievement in his career comes as a natural sequence of his devoted service to the government in many capacities. Elder Albert E. Bowen of the Council of the Twelve, an intimate friend and business associate, when asked many years ago to give an estimate of President Clark's character, wrote: The personal endowment and qualities which have made possible his varied and distinguished achievements are perhaps three, with their corollaries: First: A vigorous and discriminating intellect. His is the rare power of penetrating through all confusing, superficial envelopments to the root and marrow of a confronting problem. Second: A prodigious power of work— a constitution which seems able to respond to any draft that may be made upon it. Work is his vocation and his avocation, his pursuit and his pastime. Third: An uncompromising, undeviating honesty—intellectual and moral honesty. "Face the Facts," is a characteristic expression of his, He spends no time in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 working upon schemes of evasion. Having been surrounded with abundant opportunity for graft and acquisition, he has come through without the smell of fire upon his garments. No opprobrium has ever attached to his name. To him sham and pretense are an abomination. Years after the foregoing testimonials, how wonderful it is that President Clark's ability and devotion are even greater and increasingly recognized. President David O. McKay on taking office recently said: "President Clark is a wonderful servant. You have had demonstrated here this morning his ability to carry out details and he is just that efficient in everything pertaining to the work." No matter what the task has been, his performance has represented. The best. IS formula for success is hard work, and he still follows that formula. Likely more enlightening than any words one might write of this great man are his own expressed thoughts. At the beginning of his ministry eighteen years ago he disclosed his great foresight and virtue in a sermon given by him in the Tabernacle at the general conference of the Church. The following is an excerpt therefrom: The world is moaning in tnbulation. I do not know the cure. The questions involved are so nearly infinite in their vision that I question whether any human mind can answer them. But it is my faith that if the people will shun idleness, if they shall cast out from their hearts those twin usurpers, ambition and greed, and then shall re-enthrone brotherly love and return to the old virtues— industry, thrift, honesty, self-reliance, in- PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. Dependence of spirit, self-discipline, and mutual goodness—we shall be far on our way to a returned prosperity and worldly happiness. We must again yield fealty to the law that wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of mind and heart.. The world problem is not primarily one of finance, but of unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence, character, heart, temperance, integrity and righteousness. The world has been on a wild debauch materially and spiritually; it must recover the same way the drunkard reprobate recovers—by repentance and right living. What was said by his friends ten years ago of President Clark is true today. "He is vigorous in body, keen in intellect, sound in his thinking, sagacious, heart, with a rare penetration of mind. He is a tower of strength among his people and acknowledged everywhere (in and out of the Church) as a leader." With it all, he is considerate, thoughtful, and ever mindful of all, high and. Low. Firmness and kindness are blended by him in all his decisions, almost to perfection. He is solicitous of the welfare of all his brothers and sisters in the Church. He constantly attends their needs. It is no wonder the Church Welfare Program has enlisted his deepest interest and consequently his most active support. He has said: The prime duty of help to the poor by the Church is not to bring temporal relief to their needs but salvation to their souls. The rule of the bishop in all these matters is the rule of the Priesthood, a rule of kindness, charity, love, righteousness. Little is known of his philanthropy beyond his beneficiaries. It studious, prayerful in — 375 would form an interesting chapter were we able to disclose but a part of what he has done for others. No one in the service of the Church has a better friend. He knows what it is to work and he appreciates the feelings of those who toil daily for their livelihood. He concerns himself with the unfortunate, seeks to assist them, to bless the sick and to comfort those who mourn. Voltaire disclosed a spirit shared by President Clark when he wrote: "Love truth but pardon error. The mortal who goes astray is still a man and thy brother. Be wise for thyself alone, compassionate for him. Achieve thine own welfare by blessing others." Time is his most precious possession. He is methodical in the extreme. 'l'o him there is a time and place for each of his many activities and each is orderly and punctually accomplished. One key to his success is his ability to delegate to others those things which others can do for him. At the same time, no matter falling within the sphere of his responsibility is too small to receive his careful attention. To him the disposition of the tithes and offerings of the people is a most sacred trust. He zealously guards the interest of the Church in all matters with an unselfishness seldom equalled among men. To know President Clark is to love him. His friends and admirers are legion. 'The true test of greatness is found in the personal appraisal of those most intimate. The closer your association with President Clark, the deeper and more lasting your affection for him. 376 [! Is a joy to go into the home of President Clark for here we find. His true character reflected. Except for the absence of Sister Luacine Savage Clark, his home now is as ideal as it was years ago in Washington when the children were young. The devotion of his son and three daughters to their father is matched only by their great respect and admiration for him. Truly the family honor their father as they do the memory of their devoted mother. President Clark's concern is ever for the welfare of his family to the latest generation. | His eulogy to his mother, entitled "To Them of the Last Wagon," is an inspiration. It discloses his great affection for his mother. It likewise reveals the philosophy of life she must have taught him. I quote from this writing: In living our lives let us never forget that the deeds of our fathers and mothers are theirs, not ours; that their works cannot be counted to our glory; that we can claim no excellence and no place, because of what they did; that we must rise by our own labor, and that labor failing we shall fall. We may claim no honor, no reward, no respect, nor special position or recognition, no credit because of what our fathers were or what they brought. We stand upon our own feet in our own shoes. There is no aristocracy of birth in this Church; it belongs equally to the highest and the lowliest: For as Peter said to Cornelius, the Roman centurion, seeking him: "Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him" (Acts 10:34-35). The people of Grantsville, his birthplace, claim him as their own, and do homage to him as he frequently returns to his home there. They are his neighbors and kinsRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 men. 'The great, generous heart of this man has preserved for future generations the old school in Grantsville where his father taught and where he went to school on week days and worshiped on the Sabbath. This building, now restored to its original condition, with some modern improvements, will long stand to his memory as a mute evidence of his love of home and community. His neighbors among whom he grew up have reciprocated with a love and esteem that is shown in many ways. Lately, at a testimonial, the people of Tooele County tendered a distinguished service award in recognition of his outstanding achievements in the public life of our nation and as a member of the First Presidency of the Church of. Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Clark can express his thoughts in words that are clear and simple and with a meaning unmistakable. Even his poetry discloses his command of language and far more important, the depth of his soul. His most important religious work is On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life. 'This treatise on the apostasy and the restoration of the gospel 'is unsurpassed in the writings of the Church. It is a work of rare scholarship written with forthrightness and conviction. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has the moral courage to say without faltering what he knows to be right and the physical courage to do as he says. To the Priesthood of the Church, he has throughout the years, called their attention forcibly to the theme nearest to his heart: "Except ye are one ye are not mine.", PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. His ministry has been characterized by a firm, resolute, continuing determination to bring unity into the lives of the Church membership, as well as into quorums and other organizations of the Church. Repeatedly he has emphasized that "we cannot be one unless we are one in spirit, in belief, in knowledge and in action. There is no other way." With this concept of unity always uppermost in his mind, he could never fail to fulfill the high calling which is his. Above all, he has and bears a powerful, enduring, convincing testimony of the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, the divine mission of the Savior, the restoration of the Priesthood of God given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, and the presence here upon the earth today of a true 377 prophet of God, whom he stands ever ready to serve as he may be directed. The testimony which he last publicly bore at our recent conference when the First Presidency were sustained by the Priesthood and people in solemn assembly, follows: My Brothers and Sisters, I begin by bearing again my testimony that this is the work of the Lord, that Joseph Smith is a prophet, that those who have followed afterward have been his prophets, and that the one whom we have sustained is the ninth in regular succession, as a prophet, seer, and revelator to this Church and to the world. I know that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world, I know that he is the first fruits of the resurrection, and that by and through him we are redeemed from the fall, and thus able to overcome the results of the fall and get back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. 2 "Pe Sunday in the Country Christie Lund Coles Sunday in the country was a day Quite set apart, even by the way The sun shone, more luminously bright Between the shadows cool and dark as night; Sunday was a day of worship, rest, Of dressing in our stiffly-ironed best, Walking the graveled pathway to the church Set amid poplars and the lean, white birch, And flanked by yellow roses that were bent In rich abundance, giving the air a scent That wakes us to homesickness even yet. And there was organ music. We can forget Much, but not that, nor our child-world, then Simple as life will not be again. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Sustained as President of the Twelve Apostles April 9, 1951 Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH HE Council of the Twelve Apostles is a unique body of men, different from any other group in all the world. In ancient and modern times, the 'Twelve have been the Lord's ambassadors to all the world, building up the kingdom of God, and_ preparing the ways of the Lord. In modern, as well as in ancient times, these men have been called from many walks in life. Each one has placed his all upon the altar, 'Page 378 and willingly given of his time, talents, and possessions, for the work of the Lord. _ They have appeared before kings and presidents, industrialists and educators, and have mingled with the humble and the lowly, in all cases representing the one great cause. In doing so some have suffered many hardships and _privations, nearly all have been persecuted, and in some cases, they have made the supreme sacrifice. To preside over such a group of men is a great responsibility, requiring much wisdom, great courage, inspired foresight. Throughout the years, the Lord has provided great leadership in the men who have presided over the Council of the Twelve. These presidents have been men of power, men of great and enduring faith, and yet possessed of those other Christ-like qualities which have made them more than ever beloved of the people—love, patience, understanding, and compassion. During the proceedings of the last general conference of the Church, a new president of the Council was installed. By vote of the Priesthood and the general membership of the Church in the ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Salt Lake 'Tabernacle, Monday, April 9, Elder Joseph Fielding Smith was sustained in this position. The night before, at a special meeting of the Twelve, he was sustained as president by his colleagues. Then on the following Thursday, April 12, 1951, at a meeting of the First Presidency and the 'Twelve in the Salt Lake Temple, he was set apart to this position by President David O. McKay. | It was a great honor which had come to him. But in his characteristic manner, he accepted it in a great spirit of humility. But that was not the only honor that came to President Joseph Fielding Smith during this history-making week. He was chosen to ordain and set apart the new President of the Church, President David O. McKay. As the newly organized First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve met in the temple on April 12, and prepared to lay hands on the new members of the First Presidency, President McKay announced that it was his wish that Joseph Fielding Smith be voice in ordaining him as the President of the Church. President Smith is the next in line of seniority among the presiding brethren, coming directly after President McKay. As all the brethren present placed their hands upon the head of President McKay, President Smith acted as voice for the group, and ordained him and set him apart to his new high office. It was an impressive occasion. It was a great honor bestowed upon President Smith. President McKay's action in thus choosing President Smith for this honor followed the pattern set by 379 President George Albert Smith when he invited President George F. Richards of the Council of the Twelve, to be voice in his ordination as President of the Church. N honor such as this, to be chosen to preside over the Council of the Twelve, and then to be voice in ordaining a President of the Church, can come only to one whose life has been consistently Christ-like, and whose service has been unfailing in the work of the Master. Such has been the life of President Joseph Fielding Smith. Such has been his service. Loyal and true to his brethren, devoted to the Church and its principles, he has walked down through the decades for seventy-four years as an inspiration to all who have truly known him. One of the most thoughtful of men, one of the most kindly and. Generous, President Smith has won a lasting place in the hearts of the people of the Church. — In times of need, they come to him, whether that need be spiritual or temporal, whether it be to solve some family problem, or whether it be to obtain a proper interpreta. Tion and statement of the doctrine of the Church. His life has been such as to insti] confidence in the minds of all. When President Smith speaks on doctrine, what he says is authorita: tive. When he speaks on a matter of history, he sets forth the unembellished facts as they should be presented. People accept what he says, because they know he is an authority. When they read his 380 books, they know they can depend upon what he says. There is no idle speculation in them, there is no vacillating. He comes to the point, and explains it so that all may readily understand. President Smith's activities are wide, but all of them advance the affairs of the Church to which he gives his undivided time. He has toured Europe in the interest of the missionary work, and directed the exodus of the elders from that continent at the beginning of World War II. He has presided over the Salt Lake Temple, he is president of and actively supervises the work of the Genealogical Society of the Church. He takes a leading part in education, both on the general board of education for the Church, and on the board of _ trustees of the Brigham Young University. | | As a member of the Twelve he visits stakes of the Church from week to week, conducting stake conferences and other business. He tours missions from time to time in the interest of that work. He is a member of the missionary committee of the Church, and also serves on various other committees. This greatly varied activity, this busy life in the Church, began in his early youth. He has filled offices in the various grades of the Priesthood and in the auxiliary: organizations of the Church; he has been a high councilman, a member of the Y. M. M. I. A. General board; and a Seventy's quorum president. One of his most important positions, one which he fills with great skill, is that of Church Historian. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 He has labored in the Church Historian's office most of his life, beginning as an employee there upon his return from filling a mission in Great Britain from 1899 to 1901. In 1906 he was sustained as an assistant' Church Historian, and subsequently was made Church Historian and Recorder. PRESIDENT Smith brings to his position as President of the Council of the T'welve, forty-one years of experience in that body. He knows the work well, he is beloved of his brethren who make up that quorum. For the past six months he has carried most of the burdens of the office, being acting president of the Council during the time President David O. McKay served both as President of the Council of the Twelve and as a member of the First Presidency under President George Albert Smith. President Smith's family life is an inspiration to the Church. His wife, the former Jessie Evans, soloist with the Tabernacle Choir, gives him wonderful support. Often she travels with him, and thrills the people of the stakes and missions 'with her singing. She provides for him a home life which is an example for every family. President Smith's sons and daughters are splendid citizens, active members of the Church, missionaries, auxiliary workers, Priesthood leaders. One of his sons was killed during the last World War. When he accepted this new position, President Smith once more exhibited that humble attitude which has won so many friends for him. As he spoke in that mem- ELDER JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH orable meeting which closed the last general conference, held in the Tabernacle Monday morning, April g, he said: First I wish to say before this vast congregation of Priesthood and members of the Church that I pledge myself to support my brethren of the First Presidency. They have my full support, my love and fellowship, and I pray that the Spirit of the Lord may rest upon them in great abundance to guide them and direct them in all things pertaining to their high and holy callings. 381 I feel humble in standing here, considering myself the weakest of my brethren, I love each one of them; the First Presidency, the Council of the Twelve, and the other brethren whose names have been presented and approved here this day. And may the Lord be with us to help each one of us to magnify his calling. I realize the position I have been called to fulfill is one of great importance. It makes me humble. I am grateful for the expressions that I have received from my brethren. They have expressed their confidence, and already have given unto me their support. Yet Man Fleeds Not Mabel Law Atkinson The coyote, trapped, escaping, keeps a wary eye; The mother robin learns to wait the stealthy tread Yet man, divinely sired, heeds not the warning cry Of nations, buried... But sins on, then mourns his dead. Si ulfillment Grace Sayre As long as winds shall walk the earth And stars burn with exultant flame, As long as old trails know rebirth In dogwood sprays, spring will reclaim This heart, the winter's hour has dulled. And where these blooms have now fulfilled Their symbol sheaths in bud and root, A robin in an apple tree, In vibrant chords of ecstasy, Can make the season with his flute. Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells LaVern W. Parmley First Counselor to Sister Howells in the Presidency of the Primary Association life of devoted service to the principles of her faith came to a close Saturday, April 14, 1951, with the passing of Adele Cannon Howells. She was born in Salt Lake City, January 11, 1886, a daughter of George M. Cannon and Marion A. Morris Cannon. She attended the L. D. S. High School and graduated from the University of Utah in igog. She taught school for a short period and then became associated with the Salt Lake Recreation Department for a number of years. She was married to David P. Howells, March 12, 1913, in the Salt Lake Temple. Sister Howells was called to be first counselor to May Green Hinckley, General President of the Primary Association, January 1, 1940. After the death of Sister Hinckley she became General President of the Primary Association, July 20, 1943. As president of the Primary Children's Hospital Board and editor of The Children's Friend, Sister Howells was a tireless and diligent worker. She served the Primaries throughout the Church with a keen and personal interest. She so glorified work that she translated duty into privilege. On January 12, 1948, she was elected to the Hall of Fame of the Salt Lake Council of Women because of her outstanding accomplishments. Sister Howells walked each morning with a new sense of. Goodness; She opened her heart wide to all Page 382 ADELE CANNON HOWELLS beauty and wisdom. She interested herself in life and mingled kindly with its joys and sorrows. She treasured friendships, she judged kindly, she did small tasks graciously. She had charity in her heart for all. She believed in the everlasting beauty of the universe, in the supremacy of good over evil, in the conquering power of love, the brotherhood of man, and_ the omnipotence of the spirit. She believed in judgment without prejudice and that there is nothing so contagious as happiness. (Continued on page 427) Contest Announcements—1951 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contest study carefully the articles on creative writing which appear in this Magazine, and also similar articles in the June issue for 1947, 1948, and 1949: "The Art of Poetry Writing—A Symposium of Opinions," page 370, June 1947, and "We Want to Write," page 375, June 1947; "For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty,' page 370, June 1948; "You Can Write a Prize Winner," page 372, June 1948; "Points for Poets to Remember," page 371, June 1949; "On Writing a Short Story," page 374, June 1949; "On Building a Poem," page 376, June 1950; "The Short Story With a Plot," page 379, June 1950. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1951. Prizes will be awarded as follows: poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. First prize 00--:$25 Rules for the contest: Second prize - 0 $20 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day MMi prize! Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board, and emPrize poems will be published in _ ployees of the Relief Society general board. The January 1952 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other 2. Only one poem may be submitted by cach contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. Page 383 384 5. No explanatory material or picture _ is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. | 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'b. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. A. 9 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 g. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1951. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest "THE Relief Society Short Story ' Contest for 1951 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1951. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize ---$50 Second prize $40 Third prize -$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1952. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story. Must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. ( A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5- A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 385 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be sbmitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1951. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. O-<P-eFragrant Memories Grace Barker Wilson Remembered things are poignant as today: The scent of violet, The young, green odor of a fresh-cut lawn, Essence of mignonette; Elusive sweetness from the orchard trees When apples are in flower, The clean smell of a forest glade After a summer shower. Night From Capitol Fill Salt Lake City, Utah Margaret B. Shomaker The city lights its rich array Of window stars.... Yellow, orange, and red On the deepening blue. Temple spires pierce through the dark, And silence fills my heart. Summer Noon Beatrice K. Ekman Metallic silence broods on land and sea, And bunch grass waits as motionless as stone. Surf creeps upon the tidelands quietly And sweltering heat throbs down in monotone. White rays of torrid sun proclaim the noon And shimmering heat waves move across the dune. Let's Write a Poem Alberta: H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society OETRY, it has been said, is an attitude toward life, and poems are a by-product of experiencing the poetic spirit. If we take this viewpoint, all people are poets at one time or another and no one is a poet all the time. Even the most practical housewife becomes enthusiastic over some idea occasionally, is moved by impulses of idealism, or feels deeply sympathetic towards others, ll facets of what we might call the poetic attitude. On such occasions she is a poet, although she may not express herself in a single rhythmic line. We need to cultivate poetry if by the poetic attitude we mean a reaching out beyond ourselves in sympathy and understanding to all people, identifying our own vital experiences with those of others. We need to know that poetry is far more practical than most people realize, for it can shape the ideas of individuals, nourishing the buds that flower into action. Poetry can heighten our own appreciations, help us clarify our ideas, and mature our emotions. Let's write a poem, when and if we feel that we have something to say that could be said in a poem. If we are aware of beauty as manifest everywhere in nature; if we know the experience of parenthood or the lack of it; if we are among those who see a light beyond sorrow, a gain above loss; if we sense the need and possibility of raising man's level of living, then we do Page 386 have something to say. If our emotional reaction to any of these or other phases of life is honest and intense, let's write a poem. Writing poetry can be a rewarding experience even for the woman who writes only occasionally, if she will be realistic about her work. If it has been written merely as emotional release—to get a certain conviction "out of the system," she is free to cast it into the waste basket or the dresser drawer. But if the poem is to reach out beyond herself and be enjoyably shared by others, the author must fulfill certain obligations to the poem itself and to its readers. An emotional release may be sufficient reason for writing, but it is not sufficient to assure poetic quality. She must be willing to examine her poem objectively, as if she had never met. The author. She must know that all poets, and especially amateurs, must study and revise their work where necessary, that the poems may communicate as nearly as possible the meaning and feeling the author wishes to convey. Emotion may be personal, intense, and very real to us, and there is a tendency to feel that the poem shaped from it is faultless. Very few poems are "born" full grown and perfect. Every poem which is entered in a contest is submitted with the belief (however slight) on the part of its author that it has a chance of: winning. Otherwise it would not be entered. And most of the (Continued on page 417) Let's Write a Story Alice Morrey Bailey HEN the first campfire lit a ring of listening faces the short story as a means of creative expression and aesthetic satisfaction was established. The printed page has widened that ring and preserved great stories from the foundation of the world. The fascination of story-telling grips everyone, from the very young child to the old man reliving his life in reminiscence. Self-expression is not sufficient justification for writing a_ short story; its purpose is to strengthen or entertain the reader. Let us choose a purpose and take the first step: find out what it is we really wish to say. 'The determination of this destination has many names: story idea, root idea, theme, thesis, goal, aim, driving force, to name a few. Old-fashioned writers called it the "moral" and tacked it on the end of fables for the benefit of readers who might have missed it in the story. One competent teacher calls this premlS€. Premise, according to the dictionary, iS a proposition previously stated or assumed as leading to a conclusion, antecedently supposed or proved; a basis of argument. If the premise of our story cannot be summed up in a sentence, such as "Pride goeth before a fall," "Violent living brings violent death," "A fool and his money are soon parted," it is not a good story. The clever writer conceals his premise in fine writing, never setting it out in so many words, but proving it with subtlety and drama, assuming that the intelligence of his readers is at least equal to his own. Nothing pleases a reader so much as finding a hidden truth which he thinks might have escaped everyone else, including the author. A good premise is the skeleton upon which to hang the flesh and blood of character and plot. The characters for our stories cannot be made up_ without thought. We must know their backgrounds, the physical make-up, the ancestry, and the sociology and religion that have colored their thinking. We must know their psychology, age, health, and the type of work they do. Whether we put these into the story or not, they will direct the actions and conversations of the characters and reveal them as personalities. Perhaps a person met with in real life is such a one as to suggest premise and plot to an author. If so, there is danger in portraying him. If too faithfully done, harm may result to him or his family and the author will be promptly and thoroughly sued. He should be disguised and firmly transplanted. On the other hand, the author who draws too much from his imagination runs the same danger as the artist who uses no models; his characters may be all glorified replicas of himself. We must select or create our characters, select a pivotal personality, and surround him with those who will react against him to the advantage of the story. Maybe our central or pivotal character is not (Continued on page 427) Page 387 T an institute on gerontology (study of the aging) held in the Union Building of the University of Utah in April, Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, gave a talk as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the work and care for the aging. Her explanation was very well received by the audience and by Dr. Robert J. Havighurst, eminent national figure in sociology, particularly in gerontology, and guest-lecturer for the institute week. HE first Sunday in June is observed in many states as "Shutin's Day." 'This type of service is part of the general program of Relief Society and members make visits to the homebound throughout the year. HE Daughters of Utah Pioneers on April 7th, celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of their organization, April 11, 1901. Especially honored were the three surviving charter members: Mary Schwartz Smith (widow of President Joseph F. Smith), Rosannah Cannon (Mrs. Alonzo Blair) Irvine, and Rachel Grant (Mrs. John H.) Taylor. In February the "Daughters" entertained both legisWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon lative bodies at a luncheon as an expression of appreciation for the fnancial help received from them toward the erection of their new building. RS. JOHN C. SWENSON, of Provo, Utah's Mother of the Year, has spent much of her time for the last seven years in assisting her eighty-year-old blind neighbor, Mss. Fannie Patton, in the work of converting into Braille type choice selections of literature and religious | writings. Mrs. Swenson, mother of nine children, is the wife of Professor Emeritus John C. Swenson of Brigham Young University, and the couple still live in the home which they entered as bride and groom fifty-two years ago. A successful teacher for many years, Mrs. Swenson still acts as a special tutor for children and young people in music and reading. RS. MARY T. MARTIN SLOOP, of Crossmore, North Carolina, a seventy-seven-year-old doctor, known as "the grand lady of the Blue Ridge" for her work with mountain children, has _received the honor of "American Mother of 1951." She is the wife of a country doctor and the mother of a son and a daughter, both doctors. Page 389 O-> EDITORIAL SD VOL. 38 JUNE 1951 She Blessing of Work HE night cometh: when no man can work." 'This caution was given by the Lord to his disciples. If kept ever in mind, then the need to do required work at an appointed hour becomes acceptable, as the realization grows that time - never returns to offer again this precise moment for a given work. With passing time come new tasks. "Work is the scythe of time," wrote Napoleon as he contemplated years of living in exile, cut off from the stream of life, and planned work which: would engross him to the exclusion of crawling days and months and years. Young mothers recognize the truth of Napoleon's comment. There never seems to be sufficient time for their innumerable tasks to be done in each twenty-four hours. And yet a mother's satisfaction increases in proportion as she perfects herself in her work, as she plans her work so as to include also the work of teaching and training her children. She discovers that in experiences involving worry, regret, or sorrow, that work wears a comforting face, that it is a solace to her to work with her hands. A burden becomes lightened as it is leavened with physical or even mental work. Finally, to the mother forced to lie in bed and see her household disrupted by her inactivity, comes the final recognition of the ability to work as a blessing Page 390 and a privilege. Work no longer is something to battle and conquer, work is a necessity to her feeling of fulfillment. The pressure of work, moreover, grows less through application. However monotonous or distasteful certain work appears to be, through earnest effort and an acknowledgment of. Its necessity, it becomes at first less distasteful and, in time, even enjoyable. The gospel plan offers work to be done throughout life. Valued service suited to the physical condition of an individual may be always engaged in, and there is no arbitrary age beyond which service is not accepted. 'The plan of salvation recognizes that the spirit is eternal and, change as time will the outer shell—this mortal body—the spirit remains young and forwardlooking—only refined. By wisdom and understanding as it is schooled by the years. Charles Kingsley wrote: Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and forced to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know. Some religions teach of a heaven where angels sit and play harps eternally, of a heaven where in- EDITORIAL activity reigns. 'I'his is contrary to the knowledge of Latter-day Saints. 391 Through. The accomplishment of righteous work, man has joy. Heaven means eternal progression, wherein the Lord stated, "For this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man.". God has work to do and he pronounced a blessing upon man in that commandment, "By the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Work, and thou wilt bless the day Ere the toil be done; They that work not, can not pray, Can not feel the sun. God is living, working still, All things work and move; Work, or lose the power to will, Lose the power to love. —John Sullivan Dwight —M. C. S. CF i eee = Cornua Lucy Gates Bowen November 5, 1880—April 30, 1951 Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, granddaughter of President Brigham Young, and wife of Elder Albert E. Bowen, of the Council of the Twelve, died April 30, 1951, in Salt Lake City, Utah. A beautiful and gracious woman, she was richly gifted and greatly loved. Emma Lucy Gates was born in St. George, Utah, November 5, 1880, a daughter of Jacob F. Gates and Susa Young Gates, and the third in a family of thirteen children. She was proud of her ancestry and of her Church, and during her long public career she always availed herself of every opportunityy to serve her people. Her musical education began at an early age, and when she was six years old she made her vocal debut by singing "Aloha Oe" to its composer, Queen Liliuokalami during the time that Emma Lucy's parents were serving as missionaries in Hawau. At the age of thirteen, she won first prize in a piano competition in the first Welsh Eisteddfod held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. When she was seventeen, Emma Lucy went to Europe with her sister Leah and her brother-in-law, Elder John A. Widtsoe, now a member of the Council of the Twelve. In Europe she sang as guest artist in many opera houses and made concert appearances in nearly all the large cities. Later, in the United States, she sang grand opera roles in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Seattle, and many other cities. Her unusually rich voice was magnificent in roles ranging from the highest coloratura soprano scores, such as Mozart's "Queen of the Night," to the mezzo-soprano role of "Carmen." As '""Utah's First Lady of Music," she was especially honored on October 25, 1948, in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, where she was given an enthusiastic ovation at a "command" performance. | 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 Emma Lucy Gates was married to Elder Albert E. Bowen in 1916. She reared as her own his twin sons whose mother had died at their birth in 1905. Since her husband's appointment to the Council of the Twelve in 1937, Sister Bowen has traveled widely throughout the Church, and is lovingly remembered by Latter-day-Saint women in the stakes and missions. She has been most liberal with her great gifts and has encouraged and instructed many young musicians whose voices will long be heard, and who owe much of their success to her training and inspiration. Hers was a great soul—and the testimony of her Savior and the living of the second great commandment were the guiding beacons of her life. The general board of the Relief Society and Relief Society members everywhere, in gratitude for Sister Bowen's life of devotion and service, tender their heartfelt sympathy to Elder Bowen and members of the family. They know that memories of her, and her sweet influence, will continue to entich their lives and the lives of all who have known and loved Emma Pua Gates Bowen. ~— Question Matia McClelland Burk Grandma planted yellow roses Beside her cabin door; Each year they spread a golden fleece Though she is here no more. I prune my costly hybrids And tend them year by year. _ Will they bloom with such abandon When I am no longer here? Lost Love | Creative Artist Nelouise Fisher Judd - Ruth H. Chadwick She asks about C She who molds an idea Her many friends. Into a printed word, But you? Or turns the tunes within her heart She never breathes To music yet unheard, Your name. Or gives to pigments life and age, She's too afraid And shapes the common sod, That folks will guess Lifts herself to hallowed realms— She loves you just the same. Shares kinship then with God. Polly Played for Keeps Sylvia Probst Young ROM his chair at the supper H' table Pa surveyed us with his usual good-natured smile which came to rest on Polly, as Pa's smiles always did, for Polly is the apple of Pa's eye. Who could doubt that Polly, with her dancing eyes and freckled nose, would be the family favorite, for Polly, you see, is our only sister, and boys— there are a half dozen of us. "Well, Sis," Pa said (we've always called her Sis), "how does it seem to be in high school? They tell me there's a new schoolmarm over there." Polly beamed, and the freckles across her nose shone in the lamplight. It seemed quite impossible that she should be starting high school, this red-headed, mischievous, tree-climbing little sister. "Oh, Pa," she exclaimed, "she's our teacher for English. Her name's Kate Morton, and she's just beautiful, and more fun." Ma, her fork in mid-air, looked up with interest. Heard all about Miss Morton when Polly got home, but it was: still news, for a new high school teacher was something Hillcreek hadn't had for a couple of years. "She sounds interesting," was Sid's quick comment. "Guess [ll have to meet this schoolmarm." "What about Johnnie?" put in Leon. "He's the old man around here. "I had her spotted for Johnnie soon as I saw her." "Oh, you did?" I answered. "Well, Leon boy, being twenty-two doesn't exactly put me in the old No doubt she hadman class, and I'm in no hurry for a wife. But we'll see. One never knows." "No, one never knows," said Pa. "But it seems to me both Sid and Johnnie should start giving marriage some serious thought." 'Then he winked at Polly and started talking about picking the transparent apples, so nothing more was said about Miss Morton. But I remembered Polly's glowing account of her, and I resolved that I'd have to meet this Miss Morton as soon as the opportunity came my way, and it wasn't long in coming. For the next Saturday night was the harvest dance at Winkle's ranch, and I had the pleasure of meeting Kate Morton there and discovering that everything Polly had said about her was true. I was a little late getting to the dance that night because I had helped Pa doctor a sick calf, but when I came into the ranch parlor I spotted the new teacher first thing, and she was dancing with Sid. You could tell she was no local product. She was too fair and fragile looking for that... Sorta reminded me of the Dresden china doll on Ma's what-not shelf. I gave Sid the high sign, but he ignored me completely. However, when the music stopped, he brought her around. (Sid's a good guy. ) "Miss Morton," you to meet my big This is Johnnie Sullivan. Dying to meet you." he said, "I'd like brother here. He's been Page 393 394 I felt my face burning, and I could have choked Sid, but Kate Morton was smiling in an understanding sort of way. "How do you do, Johnnie Sullivan," she said, "and how many Sullivans are there?" "Well there's quite a tribe of us in these parts," I told her, my composure regained. "And may this Sullivan have the pleasure of the next dance with you?" GHE was a perfect dancer, and the fact that she was the new schoolmarm made her the belle of the ball. Managed to have her for a dancing partner three times, and she promised to ride over to Diamond Lake with me next Saturday afternoon. As soon as dinner was over on Saturday, I went out and cranked up the new Ford and rode over to Pyper's.. 'That's where Miss Morton was staying. Old Jonathan Pyper was in his rocker on the front porch, and he greeted me with a sly smile. "I expected to see one of you Sullivan boys over here about now or sooner. Well, Miss Kate 'pears to be as fine a gal as ever I see. Sit down, Feller, she'll be out in no time." And then she came. Her blond locks were tied up with a blue velvet band, and she was wearing some kind of silk dress as golden as her 'hair. "Hello," she smiled. "Isn't it a perfectly lovely afternoon for a ride?" Mrs. Pyper, round and jolly, was standing in the doorway as we started to go. "Johnnie be careful 'with that gas machine," she teased. _ "Think you should have brought In spite of that fact, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 195] old Nell and the buggy, don't you?" I helped Miss Morton into the car, then climbed in and took the wheel. A lazy breeze stirred in the trees along the road, and the air was filled with the smell of apples and wood smoke. "It's beautiful up here," Miss Morton said. "I know I'm going to like this town very much." We talked about everything from schoolboys to politicians, and by the time we got back to Hillcreek we were firm friends. She was calling me Johnnie and I was calling her Kate, and she had promised to go to the dance with me next Saturday night. Ma was putting our Saturday night lunch on the table when I got home, and the minute I opened the door the whole gang started in on me: "How's Kate, Johnnie?" "Got another date, Johnnie?" "How's your heartbeat, Johnnie?" And Bill, who was studying Tennyson's Idylls of the King, threw out his arms dramatically and recited from "Lancelot and Elaine," substituting Kate: Kate the fair, Kate the lovable, Kate, the lily maid of Astolat From then on I seemed to have the inside track with Miss Kate Morton. I never really asked her to go steady, but I always managed to be the boy who took her to church functions, school dances, or anything else. That is, until she decided I was taking her too much for granted, and then she took matters into her own hands. I had been seeing her about twice a week from October until POLLY PLAYED FOR KEEPS February, when I decided it was about time i told her what my heart had been telling me for several months. As I walked over to Pyper's that February evening, it suddenly occurred to me that Valentine's Day was only a couple of days away, and I hadn't asked Kate to go to the dance. Of course I figured she would understand, and everything would be all right. After all, hadn't I been her beau for quite awhile? It was Mrs. Pyper who came to the door, and she looked like the cat who swallowed the canary. "Kate isn't here," she said. "My nephew Clarence came up for a few days, and she went to the movies with him. You know Clarence, Johnnie." Did I know Clarence? Clarence was the typical dude, a Lord Fontleroy grown tall, who didn't know on which side to milk a cow. Yes, I knew Clarence, and it made my blood boil. A! Three-thirty next day I was up at the school, and after the kids had all come out, I went in to see Kate. I didn't dream we were going to quarrel, but we did. And, looking back on it now, I'm sure it was all my fault because Clarence had always rubbed my fur in the wrong direction. I couldn't stand to think of him taking Kate, especially not to the Valentine dance, and that, I found out, was exactly whom she was going with. "Johnnie," Kate said, and her blue eyes were a little icy, "I'm getting just a little tired of being taken for granted. 'Today is February thirteenth, and you hadn't mentioned the dance until now." 395 "T'm sorry, I'm sorry as the dickens," I told her, "but I've been your steady since last October." "And so that gives you the right to expect me to be waiting whenever you chance to come. As a matter of fact, Johnnie, I don't remember your ever asking me to go steady." "T should have, and I meant to, and I promise never to take you for granted again. Now how about telling Clarence you have a date for the dance?" "I can't do that, Johnnie. He's Mrs. Pyper's nephew, and I'm living at Pypers'. Besides I couldn't do that, anyway." I guess I got really mad then, and said a lot of things I didn't really mean, but so did she. When I left the schoolhouse that night I felt like the world had come to an end, for Kate and I had come to the parting of the ways, and I had planned on asking her to marry me. I went to the dance alone, and I didn't miss one dance. I acted like I was having the time of my life, but that was only acting. All the time I was looking at Kate. Once I about decided to go ask her for a dance and try to patch things up, but I didn't. Stubborn fool that I was, I kept remembering her saying, "If that's the way you feel, Johnnie, don't bother to come around any more." Of course my family learned about it. 'They didn't say much, but I think they thought I was a mule, especially Polly. "TI think it's so silly," she told me more than once, "for people like you and Miss Morton not to make 99 up. 396 "But suppose she doesn't want to, what then?" "You know very. Well she wants to, but she's waiting for you. It's a man's place." "Aren't you a bit young to know all those things?" I teased. "Maybe I am." She tossed her red locks. "But if I were you, Johnnie Sullivan, I wouldn't mope away my life because I was too stubborn to make the first move." "Now don't feel sorry for me, little Sis. Haven't I been dating Mary Hammond ever: since?" 'Sure, but she isn't Kate Morton, Johnnie." "Too bad Beth Ritchy's got gny heart tight now, or I'd give you a run," Sid put in., ELL, call it mulishness or what you will, the winter wore on, and I continued dating Mary Hammond and wishing she were Kate. Polly, it seemed, made a special effort to go into detail about her English class at supper every night. But it looked like school would close, and Kate would leave for the summer or get herself engaged to Clarence Newbold. 'The. Thought of it almost drove me crazy, but then I would persist in remembering that she had told me not to come back. If she really wanted to see me she could drop a hint. So I suffered in silence until that eventful April day when a wonderful thing happened. I had been plowing in the south field, and I had just finished the upper flat, when I looked up and saw Polly coming toward me. "Hi, Johnnie," she called, and she seemed excited about something. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 I stopped the horses and waited while she stumbled through the plowed furrows. "Johnnie, lve 'got a message for you.' "A what?" "A message, from Miss Kate Morton." "What did you say?" "Johnnie Sullivan are you listen-. Ing or not?" "Yes—yes, of course I am! Did you say Kate Morton sent me a message? Well, what did she say? Don't just stand there!" "That's what I'm trying to tell you. She said, 'Polly will you do me a favor? Will you tell Johnnie that I'd like very much to see him. It's very important. Ask him if he will _ meet me tonight about eight o'clock by the Hillcreek bridge?' " "Did she say that? Are you sure, Polly?" "Didn't I just tell you so?" "Yes, you did. Gosh, I guess she | does want to see me again after all." I finished that plowing in record time, and left the milking and night chores for the others. "Got a big date," I told Ma, as I was washing up in the kitchen. "Kate Morton sent word with Polly that she'd like to see me." | "Well, ''m glad of that. If she had waited for you she'd have waited till doom's day. You're as stubborn as your old Grandpa Sullivan, I'd say." spring moon was peeking over Mount Baldy, and the night was filled with the perfume of apple blossoms. As I walked. Toward the creek it seemed to me there had never been such a night. I POLLY PLAYED FOR KEEPS waited on the bridge for a moment, looking down at the starlight shadows, and then I saw her coming. It was like seeing the fairy queen coming across the field. "Hello, Johnnie," she called, and then she was on the bridge beside me. For a moment there was an awkward silence, then I found my tongue. "Kate," I began in a clumsy sort of way. "I don't know how to tell you how downright miserable I've been all this while wanting to see you. So much I've wanted to tell you. I wonder if you can ever forgive me for being such a stubborn fool. If you hadn't asked me to meet you up here tonight, I guess you'd have gone away and." "Johnnie," she interrupted, "Johnnie, what did you say? I didn't ask you to meet me here. Polly brought me a message from you. She said you asked her to tell me that you'd like to see me, and that I should meet you up here. Didn't you tell Polly that, Johnnie?" "But Polly told me, Kate. She brought a message from you to me." Then it was Polly. For a moment we were both knocked speechless, as the truth dawned. And the next moment we were both laughing, and everything was all right. 397 "Kate!" I caught her hands in mine. "I think I have the most wonderful, meddling little sister in the world. She knows that I love you, and there's no one in the world like you, as far as she is concerned. All winter long she's been telling me how stubborn and pigheaded J am. But I kept remembering your telling me not to come around any more." "Oh, Johnnie, you don't know how I've wanted you to come. I only said that because I was angry. Didn't you know that? I've been perfectly miserable, too, and I think Clarence Newbold is nothing but a bore." "And Johnnie Sullivan, what do you think of him?" She gave her head a cocky toss and the mischief gleamed in her eyes. "Oh, he's passing fair." "Fair enough to put up with for the rest of your life?" "That might be." we KOK So that's the way it was, but that's been years ago. And what about Polly? Well Polly has always had all the credit, and, though she has been married for years herself, she likes to remind me now and then that, if she hadn't taken matters in her own hands, I might never have known the wonderful life I've had with my little schoolmarm. <-> Mother and Daughter Genevieve J]. Van Wagenen She's counting the days, and so am I, And the score adds up the same— To me it means an empty room, To her a brand new name. Let's Bake Bread Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society IVING as we do in this generation of modern conveniences has a tendency to inhibit the perpetuation of some of our most cherished traditions. One of the most delightful traditions fast passing into oblivion is that of breadmaking. Our mothers and our grandmothers found joy and satisfaction in baking their own bread, and housewives of today may enjoy that same satisfaction. The increased cost of living will perhaps help us as homemakers to have a desire to return to the homemaking skills of which breadmaking is so much a part. It may be easier to run to the corner grocery store to purchase a loaf of bread, but our responsibility as homemakers is not so much to make life easier as to make life better. Try Making Bread! You will find that it can be fun and a highly profitable venture as well, profitable, not alone because it is more economical than buying bakery bread, but there is something especially gratifying to a homemaker when she finds that she has made her home happier by this product of her own workmanship. Breadmaking is a most effective way to captivate your family and friends. If you have nothing more to offer to an unexpected guest than good homemade bread, served with butter and honey, together with a glass of cold milk, you may be sure your guest will feel highly complimented. Page 398 Many parents of today, when remembering the joys of their childhood, wonder if life is as much fun for children as it used to be. A child's happiness is built of very simple things—cookies in the cooky jar, playing house under the quilting frames, making popcorn balls, or enjoying candy-pulls. There are some basic experiences which no child should miss. Among these, in my opinion, breadmaking reigns supreme. I sympathize with the child who has never had the experience of coming home from school to be greeted by the sweet, wholesome, appetizing smell of a batch of freshly baked bread. I speak from experience, because my mother was a veteran in the art of breadmaking. As long as I live I ~ shall never smell the aroma of freshly baked homemade bread without seeing my mother, with all of her children around her, standing by the wood-burning stove in that oilcloth covered kitchen, waiting for the old clock to tick away the last long five minutes before the bread was baked. How we bubbled with excitement as she removed those well-shaped, evenly browned, crusty loaves of yeast bread from the oven. I remember especially the smile of satisfaction on her face as she took one of the loaves from the pan, broke it into pieces, spread each piece generously with home-churned butter and gave one to each of us. Real Homemade Bread. How quickly a loaf would disappear! LET'S BAKE BREAD 399 Photograph by Hal Rumel HOMEMADE BREAD WILL PLEASE YOUR FAMILY Josie B. Bay Cuts Her Freshly Baked Bread. This experience is one that every child and grown-up alike should have the privilege of enjoying. It is one of those homey projects in which every single member of the family will be interested, one that will not easily be forgotten. Some folks say it is old-fashioned to bake bread. Well—if it is old-fashioned to serve your family food that is nourishing and economical, food with that old country flavor that you will not find elsewhere—if it is old-fashioned to do the little things that will help your children to remember what belongs to their childhood as we remember what belongs to ours—if it is old-fashioned to enjoy the satisfaction that this homey task will bring to a homemaker and the delight it will bring when shared with friends— then, for goodness sake, enjoy being old-fashioned and let's bake bread. The recipes which follow were provided by William T. Lawrence of the mills and elevators department of the Church Welfare Plan. Nursing—A Lifetime of Satisfaction Elaine Mellor, R. N. Director, Practical Nursing School, Salt Lake Area Vocational School THE little old lady gazed gratefully up at the girl in white and whispered softly, "Thank you, my dear, for making me so comfortable. Nurses seem to have some 'magic touch.' Now, I feel as if I can rest." The nurse quietly left the room and walked down the long corridor. Mr. Thomas, her next patient, would be waiting for that "magic touch" so that he, too, could get some much-needed rest. There is something of the nurse in each of us. Whether it is some intangible desire that has always been in our hearts, or whether it has been gained through years of bandaging skinned knees, each of us desires to be of service—for that is the true spirit of nursing—wanting to take care of people. Nursing has been chosen by young women of today as one of the leading professions for the person who is seeking a means of preparing herself for a future of security. Economic security is but one of the many satisfactions to be gained in this field. There is the satisfaction of independence—of always knowing that you have something to offer—for there will always be sick people and an ever increasing demand for the service which a nurse can give. There is the satisfaction to be found in the variety offered by the changing daily schedule in the life of the nurse as patients come and leave the hospital. There is the inner satisfaction of knowing that you are needed and wanted wherever you may choose to live, and in whatever field of nursing you may choose to enter. Opportunities for employment are many. 'Today's qualified nurse may work in hospitals, doctors' offices, clinics, in homes, industry, and public health. She may prepare for a position as a teacher, supervisor, or administrator. Nursing is one of the leading professions and maintains its standards by accepting only persons who can meet the qualifications necessary for this type of work. Such persons are rated upon their ability, interest in people, honesty, good health, adaptability, and dependability.: Today, two levels of nursing service are recognized as essential to maintaining good nursing care. Girls eighteen to thirty-five, who can meet the academic standards, would do well to investigate the field of professional nursing. This three or four year education qualifies her as a highly skilled bedside nurse who is able to perform technical types of nursing care and carry on frequently in a supervisory capacity. Practical nursing is a second level which offers an opportunity in nursing to women eighteen to fifty years of age, who can meet requirements set up by the individual state boards of nurse examiners. This year of training will prepare women as excellent bedside nurses, who will be able to render less technical types of care to the patient and to act as members of nursing teams. Here, indeed, lies a golden opportunity to prepare for a lifetime of personal satisfaction. Nursing makes a better wife and mother, a better companion, and a happier individual. Information regarding the school of nursing of your choice may be obtained through the State Nurses Association. In Utah, contact Utah State Nurses Association Headquarters, Granite Building, 158 East 2nd South, Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 401 For the Strength of the Hills CHAPTER 5 Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan from Santa Monica, California, who comes to Crandall, Idaho to teach, marries Stanley Rodgers, a farmer, and goes to live in his large old-fashioned house. At the end of their first summer together, Camilla and Stan pay a short visit to her Aunt Lillian in California. In the fall Camilla finds that she is to have a child, and Stan paints the kitchen and nursery. In July a red-headed son is born. AMILLA stayed with her mother-in-law for two weeks, and then, in spite of all protests, insisted that she was ready to go home. "I feel as good as new," she declared. "It's really quite amazing. And the baby sleeps almost all the time. I'm sure that we shall get along famously." "Well, if you're sure that you can manage," said Mrs. Rodgers reluctantly. "But don't overdo. [ll run over and bathe him for a few days, until you get used to it." Camilla couldn't say no to such kindness, although one of her chief reasons for wanting to get home was to have the baby to herself, and do all the little things for him that she had been longing to do. They went home in the middle of the afternoon. Stan put the baby in the bassinet, ordered Camilla to bed, and cooked their dinner. When he came in with tenderloin steaks, a tomato salad, and peaches with thick cream, she said, "You've missed your calling. You should have been a cook." "IT only turn out superior - stuff with the right inspiration, and I Page 402 couldn't very well spend all of my time cooking just for you—and the champ, of course," nodding towards the bassinet. "We're a gorgeous family, aren't we?" asked Camilla complacently, as she cut into the tender steak. "We're perfect," Stan agreed. When she had finished, she pushed away her tray and ordered, "Give me the baby. I've been longing to have us all alone." "Come here, Rusty," he said, picking up the child awkwardly. "Your Mom wants to see if you're good-looking enough to keep." He walked over to the window where the golden light of the setting sun was making a picture of pastoral beauty. "Look, Punkin," he went on, "here are your ancestral acres— if your dad can meet the mortgage for the next ten years and the spud crop doesn't fail," He brought the baby over and laid him down on the bed. Then he said, a trifle shyly, "I suppose you'd rather have him be a doctor or a lawyer or something high-toned, wouldn't you?" "T want him to be good and fine," she replied, touching the baby's hair gently, "whether lawyer, doctor, or farmer. A farmer was my choice, wasn't it?" she smiled, reaching for his hand. "You're sweet," he whispered, bending to kiss her. Camilla thought that she had never known such perfect happiness, and she had a fleeting moment FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS of deep pity for all the people who were not part of this magic circle. Later, she wondered seriously if she would ever recapture such happiness again. The baby awakened at midnight, but Stan slept on peacefully in spite of lusty screams. Finally she got up, put on a robe and slippers, and sat down in the old rocking chair. The clock hands crept around to one, two, and three, and still the baby refused to go to sleep. At half past three he dropped off, and she crept into bed utterly exhausted. The next thing she knew Stan was shaking her shoulder and saying, "Wake up, Mom. You've practically slept the clock around, and Junior is madder than a wet chick on account of meals being delayed." HE roused herself to take the baby, but said nothing about having been up half the night. A few minutes later Stan stuck his head in the door again and announced, "Breakfast is ready as soon as you are. Shall I bring it to you, or do you want to come out?" "Tl come out," she replied, wishing that she didn't have to make another move all day long. | She was so weak she could hardly stand, but there was nothing to do but take over. She had been looking forward to bathing the baby by herself, but now that the time had come she was scared to death. She put all the bath things out— the oil, baby soap, powder, sterilized cotton—in seemingly endless array. She wished that Stan would leave. She was nervous enough without having him stand and watch. But, apparently, he had no 403 intention of missing out on anything as novel and exciting as this. To crown it all, the baby, who had been sleeping soundly all morning, began to yell at the top of his voice. "Boy! Will you listen to that lung power," said Stan proudly. "I'll bet that he'll be a trumpet player when he grows up, or maybe a hog caller." How can he wisecrack at a time like this, thought Camilla bitterly, forgetting that he flung wisecracks at any and all times, and also that he couldn't possibly realize how terribly weak and scared she felt. She undressed the baby with trembling fingers, managed to get him bathed, after a fashion, although he seemed to scream louder every second. She had barely finished feeding him when Mrs. Rodgers came in.: "Oh, you're all through." She spoke regretfully. "I was hoping to get here in time to help. How did you get along?" "Swell! There's nothing to it," answered Stan brightly, going out to do his chores. | "Yes, I know," answered his mother, with a knowing glance at Camilla. "You go lie down," she ordered. "I'll do the washing and go over the house." Camilla obeyed with a sigh of deep gratitude, thinking that she had a twenty-four hour period of grace before she had to bathe the baby again. She quickly grew stronger and the care of the baby turned from a nightmare to the joy she had first imagined it would be. 'The only trouble was that it took all of her time. "Between bath, laundry, feedings, and doing what absolutely has 404 to be done around the house, I don't have a minute," she wailed to her mother-in-law one day. "What in the world do you do when you have two—or five?" "Just the same," she answered in a matter-of-fact voice. "One takes all your time, and five take all your time. It doesn't make much difference as long as there are only twenty-four hours a day." "But I thought that surely now I would be able to start doing something to the house," Camilla went on, looking with distaste at the ancient wallpaper. "I've been trying for more than a year to get at it, and something always comes up." "Don't worry, the time will come," she answered reassuringly. UT. It didn't seem to come. Summer drifted into autumn with her every minute still being taken up with routine tasks, and Stan so busy that he wouldn't even take time to discuss remodeling, let alone do any of the work. "Wait until the potatoes are dug and out of the way," he said. "I'll have most of the winter to loaf in, and then I can do something about it. Maybe we'll send the Champ to school so that you can do something besides wash squares." It was only the next evening that he came in and said, "Would you be terribly disappointed, Honey, if we didn't do anything to the house this winter? Maxfield will discount the mortgage quite a hunk, if I can double my payment. He wants to buy a big cattle ranch up in Montana. It would be a big savings to us in the long run.' "Go ahead," she answered wearily. "I'm too tired by night to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 know what color the walls are anyway and, goodness knows, I don't have any time to look at them during the day." "You need a vacation," he declared. "Want to bundle up Richard Fenton and go down to California?" "And have all the fun of washing squares and preparing foods in a strange place? No, thank you," she declined, with a slight shudder. "Well, I didn't consider your aunt's place as being exactly strange to you." There was an awkward pause as they both remembered how strange it had been to him. "Maybe some other time, when the baby isn't so much work," she finished lamely. "I really would like to have Aunt Lillian get acquainted with him." The winter passed, rather quickly on the whole, as did the next summer. Camilla was completely absorbed in her baby, and more than once she remembered what Mother Rodgers had told her, "A baby is the one thing that you never get tired of." She was able to do more in her garden now and really enjoyed even the vegetable plot to some extent. Her flowers were nothing to what she had planned, but the lilacs and other shrubbery did well, in the early spring the forsythia had rewarded her by making the brown weather-beaten house look almost picturesque. She took a fierce joy in her husband and child. More than once when they were together she would look at them and say to herself, "T have a family," thinking back to the days when her parents had first died and she had gone to live with FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS her aunt—who had never in any way taken the place of her family. Sometimes she wondered if she were growing too used to accepting things as they were. Her hands were roughened with work, her permanents far apart, and she bought very few new clothes because she had had an ample supply when she was married. Fven the ugliness of the house no longer bothered her as it had at first. She didn't seem to have time to do anything about it herself, and there was never any money for hiring it done. It was always needed for machinery or a new building, or something else for the farm. [' was the summer Dickie was three that a telegram came from her aunt saying that she had broken her leg and needed Camilla's help. "Tl have to go," she said to Stan. "She never could get along with hired help. And, anyway, she'll think that I owe it to her—and I suppose I do." "You need to get away anyhow— although it doesn't sound like such a bang-up vacation," he commented. "Perhaps you can get some help in the kitchen as long as she isn't there to do the bossing." Camilla decided to go down by plane. "I suppose that I ought to get there as quickly as possible, and this way we can make it in about six hours. Besides, people say it's the best possible way to travel with youngsters." Stan drove her over to the nearest airport, and she had a moment of panic when it came time to say goodbye. "We've never been separated for more than a day since we 405 were married," she remembered. "I don't suppose I'll like it." "You'd better not like it," he threatened. "I'll take you across my checkered apron if you do." He held on to Dickie until the very last moment, and, as the plane took off, she saw him standing below looking very lonesome and wistful. The ride was smooth and uneventful, with the baby sleeping most of the way and the rest of the time content to sit in the seat and play. From the airport they took a cab into town and then a bus out to Santa Monica. By the time they arrived Dickie was tired and inclined to be a little bit cross. But it had been an exciting adventure on the whole and, as she came up the walk to the white house with its brilliant flowers and air of gracious living, she was really glad that she had come. A housekeeper opened the door, saying, "Oh, you must be Mrs. Fenton's niece. I'm so glad you're here. Your own room is ready." Camilla had no difficulty in detecting the note of relief in the woman's tone, and she began to wonder if her own gladness had been a trifle premature. She took the baby upstairs and freshened them both up before going to her aunt's room. She found her lying on the bed with one leg in a cast and looking rather fit, on the whole. "I'm glad you've come," she said, turning her cheek for Camilla's kiss. "I felt that I couldn't put up with strangers at a time like this. I've had three different housekeepers in less than a week and they've probably run off with most of the silver. ' Dickie to bed? 406 And this is the baby," she added, finally getting around to Dickie. "This is the baby," said Camilla proudly, "although he's really quite grown up now. I suppose I should have brought him down before, but it's hard to travel with a youngster, and his daddy didn't ever seem to be able to spare him." "Oh, yes. How is Stan?" she asked in a perfunctory tone of voice. "Fine! Simply splendid!" Camilla replied. "He's up to his ears in potatoes at the present. We have a big crop this year." "Potatoes seem such a homely crop." "Very homely," agreed Camilla, "but also very substantial and quite as essential as oranges or avocados, I imagine. Do you mind if I put He's tired from the trip. Then we can visit as long as you like." "Go ahead," she agreed quickly. "My favorite radio program is on now, anyway." Camilla gave Dickie a bath and tucked him in bed, then went back to her aunt's room. The radio was C still on, so she paused just a moment at the door and then went outside to enjoy once more the scented night air of Southern California. It's really good to be back, she thought, settling down in a comfortable porch chair. I'll get some new clothes and look up some of my friends. I've been slipping into a dreadful rut. She sat there until almost midnight, watching the cars and the people go by. 'Then she glanced in at her aunt and went to her own room. As she threw open a window she imagined that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 she could feel a breeze from the ocean, only a few blocks away. Yes, it was good to be back. GHE found that the heaviest part of her duties lay in keeping peace between her aunt and the help.' A nurse came in each day to give the patient a bath, and the current housekeeper was quite willing to stay on, providing she didn't have to go near Mrs. Fenton and "take her sass." She soon learned that even her own presence in the sickroom was not particularly desired or necessary. If Dickie was with her his prattling and running about seemed to cause too much annoyance, and even without him her aunt didn't want to have a radio program interrupted. Camilla was _ pleasantly surprised to find that, on the whole, her days were much less strenuous than they had been for the past three years. It was the second week after her arrival that she ran into Veronica Wilding, an old school friend. "Not yours!" gasped Veronica, pointing to Dickie. "Half mine," replied Camilla smiling. "The other half belongs to his daddy up in Idaho." "Come in here and tell me all about it," demanded Veronica, taking her by the arm and leading her into a nearby ice-cream shop. Over lime floats Camilla gave the highlights of her romance and marriage, including her reasons for coming back at this particular time. "And now, what about you?" she asked. "Nothing romantic like being swept off your feet by a land baron FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS and producing red-headed cherubs," said Veronica, "but I am having fun. I'm an interior decorator—no less. And right now I'm doing the most luscious job. Do you remember the Cartwright place on Hampton avenue? I'm doing the whole thing over, with money no object. Do you want to see it?" "Oh, I'd love to. I've always been crazy about doing over places —or doing them the first time. I've been planning to let loose on our house ever since we moved in, but something has always interfered, like having a baby or buying a new tractor." "Can you come out right now?" asked Veronica, standing up. "I have my car." "T think so. Aunt Lillian is probably deep in the sorrows of her two o'clock radio serial, so I'll never be missed." HE house was vacant, so Veronica unlocked the front door and they went in. 'There was a large reception hall with artistic, curved stairway. Beyond was the living room, with French doors and windows. It was so much a dream house that Camilla couldn't resist a little gasp of delight. "Tm just starting to gather ideas on it," said Veronica. ""What would yours be?" "I'd have delft blue walls with white woodwork — the stairway, mantel and all," said Camilla promptly, "then a soft floral pattern in the carpeting and chairs to match the tones in the carpet. There'd be a rose chair, maybe, a - fornia for. 407 rose-beige, and two in blue striped satin." "Here, wait a minute. Leave me a little bit to do," begged Veronica in mock seriousness. They went through the rest of the house, Camilla exclaiming and spilling ideas all over the place. In fact, she was so much intrigued that when Veronica asked if she'd like to help "just for the fun of it," she accepted with alacrity. For a week she spent all the time she could possibly spare away from her aunt's house helping to choose color schemes and furnishings. Later, she was convinced that good luck had been holding her hand, for Veronica called one morning to say that she had received a flattering offer of a job in Hawaii and could take it if Camilla would finish doing the Cartwright house. "How about it, Sweet? It's a wonderful chance for me if you'll just take over. 'The Cartwrights are willing." "Td love to do it—if I can," answered Camilla breathlessly. "In fact, I don't think I could bear to let anyone else do it now." She hung up and almost at once began to think she would call back and say that the whole idea was ridiculous. She had plenty to do at her aunt's home. Anyway, this wasn't what she had come to CalliAnd if she could be spared from Aunt Lillian at all she ought to go back to Idaho. But again—it was such an opportunity. A way to earn money, and fun besides. She didn't call back. (To be concluded) How Dad Became a Salesman Luzelle S. Eliason, T was hot. Hot enough to make you dizzy, and dry, whew! Mom said it was good we had stored our best furniture in town when we rented our home there. She. Couldn't have protected it from the dust out here on the dry farm. And it sure wouldn't have matched the old house here either. I was sitting by the house in the shade waiting for Dad to be ready to go out to the field when I saw this long, low-built car plowing up the dust. As it turned in our Jane. It was sort of light brown in color, and I decided it must be someone from town. It didn't belong to any of the neighboring farmers, I was sure, because I knew all their cars. It sure wasn't built for our kind of roads. Coming along there it reminded me of Mom in her square dance dress, the way it's liable to drag in the dust if she doesn't hold it up. This car sure needed to hold up its fenders. We were always glad to see someone come, though, because we got pretty lonely. Mom did especially. We'd only bought our farm a year before, and Mom still missed her friends in Dainesville, where Dad had been mathematics teacher in the high school. At first, she had not expected to move to the farm at all; but when Dad and I went, and had lots of trouble that first year with one thing and another, she decided we needed her, so she joined us. Page 408 The car stopped by the front gate, and the man and woman in it sat there a minute looking around. Then the man got out, and I decided he was a farmer after all. He was sunburned, and was dressed in suit pants, not too recently pressed, a tan shirt open at the neck, and a felt hat tipped at just the right angle. I didn't like the smug way | he was looking our place over. Nobody was asking him to live there. And then he turned to me and gave me the once over, but he didn't seem quite so displeased with me. Good thing, because I was getting all ready to be impolite. "Ah—hello," he said, "you Mavis' boy?" "Yeh—Sir," I said. "Your folks home?" "Yes, Sir. Will you come in?" He nodded and beckoned to his wife, who got out of the car and came over. By that time Mom had come to the door, and I thought at first she looked upset, but she quickly put on a bright smile of welcome. "Why, Harvey Byington," she cried, very jolly, "how nice to see you. And is this your wife? I'm so glad to meet you, Mrs. Byington. Come right in." "Oh—oh!" I thought, Harvey Byington, Mom's old beau. The one she turned down because she'd never matry a farmer. Never! I guess she would have though if she had liked him enough. HOW DAD BECAME A SALESMAN They came in the house, and | knew Mom was wishing she was inviting them in our home in Dainesville instead of this one. The last year we'd been renting it; had lived all winter on the farm in order to pay for it more quickly. If the wheat turned out good this year, we were going to remodel the farmhouse, and it sure needed it. Mom kept the three small rooms nice and clean, and put up curtains and things. 'There were two bedrooms and a large kitchen. We had a studio couch in the kitchen and used it for a living room, too. OM invited them in there to sit, saying something about things being just temporary, and she hoped they didn't mind sitting in the kitchen. I saw Mr. And Mrs. Byington sort of exchange looks, then Mrs. Byington looked pityingly at Mom. "Don't you mind," she said. "We all know it takes time to get started—for most people. Of course we had it real lucky that way, taking over the farm from Harvey's folks. Harvey's folks left us everything completely modern, you know; water and bath in the house. Just everything." "Oh, then you still live in Sage Valley?" 'That was the valley adjoining us. "Yes, of course." It was a funny thing about Mrs. Byington. She looked a little like Mom, only not near as pretty. I guess when he couldn't get Mom, he found someone who looked as much like her as he could. 409 Dad came in just then. Mom introduced him to them, and soon as he could, Dad winked at me. They talked awhile about farm prices, whether the frost had done any damage this year, and so on. Mr. Byington said, yes, he thought the yield on his farm was a little greater than Dad thought his was. "Takes time and experience to get the best results, Reeves," he said. "You—a—studied farming at school, though, I guess."" His manner said that farming wasn't anything you could learn from a book. "No, as a matter of fact,' Dad said, "mathematics was my major." Dad was almost as tan as Mr. Byington, but to meet them both on the street, you'd know Mr. Byington was a farmer, but Dad, with his loose fitting overalls and hornrimmed glasses, still looked more like a school teacher. It was more than that, though. Dad had a studious way with him—a manner of examining things from all angles. At any rate Mr. Byington didn't conceal the fact that he wasn't impressed with the farmer Mom had married. Mom was looking more miserable by the minute. "Think you'll stay with this, Reeves?" Mr. Byington _ finally asked. I thought he sounded pretty sarcastic. "Or go back to teaching?": Golly, I thought, Dad won't let him get away with that crack. I looked at Mon, and she was smiling brightly as if she were enjoying the whole thing, but her hands were pleating and unpleating a corner of her apron. 410 Dad settled back in his chair and sort of half closed his eyes as if he hadn't heard. Then he spoke very quietly, "As a matter of fact, Byington, seems to me a man takes a pretty big chance in this field. Frost, fire, hail—one hour of any of those, and what have you got?" "Oh, I don't know. I been in the game a good many years and haven't suffered too much." "But you have taken losses?" "Well, yes, three, four years back the hail did quite a bit of damage." "That's just what I mean. Look at those black clouds over there in the west. A storm in this heat is pretty likely to mean hail." Mr. Byington walked over to the window and looked out. "But, of course, you carry plenty of insurance against such an emergency?" Dad asked. R. Byington came back and sat down nervously. "Well, no, kind of neglected to take it out. I was telling the wife maybe we ought to do that. Hope we won't be too late." "You won't be," Dad said, getting up and walking over to his desk. He opened a drawer and took out an insurance policy. "I have a couple of these, and if you like, I'll write some hail insurance up for you. The premium is comparatively low." "You sell hail insurance?" "Yes," Dad said, "of course if you feel you can't afford it right now—? "We can afford it all right," Harvey sputtered. "'Sure—sure, Reeves, write it up." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 So Dad wrote it up, asking questions as to acreage, section, and so on. Then he handed it to Mr. Byington to read over. "Looks all right to me, Reeves," he said, handing it back, and _ taking out his checkbook. He quickly wrote out the check and gave that to Dad. "Thank you, Byington," Dad said, putting the check in the desk drawer with the policy. "Pll send this right in, and you can relax. No C more worry about the weather." "Well—yes, sure. Thanks a lot, Reeves," Mr. Byington said, but he seemed sort of confused. "We better be going," he said to his wife. They got up to leave then, and Dad and Mom said nice to see them, and come again, and they said they would, and come see them. "Oh, by the way, Byington," Dad said, "you were asking whether we thought we'd stay with farming. Yes, we'll stay with it. Makes a nice side line in the insurance business." "Yes, I guess it does,' Mr. Byington said, and I could hardly keep from laughing. After they had gone, Mother turned proudly to Dad. "Why, Franklin, you'd be a wonderful success at selling insurance. I didn't think you really meant it when you said you were going to try it." "Darn right," Dad said, "we'll move back to Dainesville this winter, and give it a try." It was the best news Mom had had for ages, and I was glad, too. Farming's pretty lonesome in the winter, Conservation Looks to the Future Helen C. Payne | United States Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Intermountain Region "Since the achievement of our independence, he is the greatest patriot who stops the most gullies.""—Patrick Henry. ESS than seventy-five years after Patrick Henry made the above statement, Brigham Young was stressing the need for the wise use of timber,. Water, and soil in the Salt Lake Valley. And in the seventy years or so that passed between Patrick Henry's pronouncement and 1847, when Brigham Young started laying out the pattern that produced the empire we know as Utah today, little thought was given to stopping gullies. Few leaders were as farsighted as Brigham Young. Coming into a new, raw, and unpopulated region with a small band of pioneers, the average leader would have been so imbued with the immediate need of helping his people feed and shelter themselves that he would not have projected his thinking and concern to generations yet unborn. But Brigham Young was not an average leader, he was an outstanding leader and clearly understood the one basic concept of humanity's relation to natural resources, upon which all economies are built. Because of this understanding he was one of the West's outstanding conservationists. The soil produces everything we eat and directly or indirectly almost everything we wear. In many parts of the world we have examples of nations reduced to poverty where ghost towns have been completely buried by wind-blown soil that once sustained prosperous agricultural communities. Fertile soil is one of the greatest basic assets any community, state, or nation can have. But no matter how fertile the soil, in the semi-arid sections of the West it cannot produce, except for a few dry land crops, until water is brought to it through irrigation. The bringing together of water and soil is a complex problem in areas where the fertile soils lie in valleys receiving far too little annual precipitation to produce crops. The problem in these areas becomes one of making mountain watersheds produce a dependable supply of usable water for valley use. Many demands are made on the natural resources that combine to make up a watershed. Wild life, including game animals, furbearers, predators, and some game birds depend on the high country within the national forests for food and protective cover for most of the year. Cattle and sheep get part of their summer feed from national forest ranges, and, in most cases in Utah and other Western states, grazing allotments and watershed boundarles are synonymous. Saw timber, mine props, fence posts, power poles, aspen for the manufacture of excelsior, are only a few of the forest products that can be harvested from the lands that make up our watersheds. Page 411 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 A TRIBUTARY IN FORD CANYON, DAVIS COUNTY, UTAH, 1930 Floods in Davis County, Utah, between 1923 and 1930, caused millions of dollars damage. Grazing, fires, and overcutting of timber, were the flood source areas. Bare spots like this one in Ford Canyon, brought about through overThey made up only about ten per cent of the watershed area, but contributed the mud, rocks, and boulders that destroyed homes, covered valuable orchard and farm lands, and took seven lives. The very resources on the watersheds that are in greatest demand for timber, grazing, and wild life are those that help a watershed func- - tion most efficiently. Grass, trees, shrubs, and ground litter and humus they produce build, protect, and enrich the soil. 'They hold the soil on the steep slopes. They absorb the melting snow and rain like a blotter soaks up water, and they release it slowly to filter through the soil to underground water channels.. Remove that protective vegetative cover, and soil disturbance begins. 'This is how gullies start. A gully is often the forerunner of damaging mudrock flows that plague valley communities when flash summer storms hit bare spots on the watersheds. Brigham Young recognized the dependence of his people not only on the fertile soil of the valleys but on the natural resources in the canyons and mountains. To Brigham Young, a conservationist far ahead of his time, goes the credit for turning the water of City Creek onto dry valley lands in Utah to start the first irrigated agriculture in the United States. ROOF of his recognition of the inter-dependence of valley and mountain resources is recorded in an ordinance that was passed in December 1850, by the House of Representatives and the Senate of _the Territory of Deseret and signed by Brigham Young on January 9, CONSERVATION LOOKS TO THE FUTURE 1851. This ordinance stipulated that certain rules must be followed in cutting timber. It provided that "any person wasting, burning, or otherwise destroying the timber shall be subject to all damages, and to a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars...." Resources use must be predicated on providing the greatest good for the greatest number in the long run. Every person living in the West is a water user. From the standpoint of resource use in the West, therefore, the greatest good for the greatest number is dependable wat- 413 er production. 'This does not mean that no use can be made of the grass, plants, shrubs, and trees, but it does mean that great care must be used in harvesting the plant crops that are basic to efficient watershed functioning. 'True conservation means wise use of a resource so that it will be perpetuated. It has been said that conservation is one— aspect of a great moral movement in the United States today. Timber cutting on the national forests is done on a harvest basis and only an amount equal to the annual growth is removed. 'This SAME LOCATION—PICTURE TAKEN IN 1946 The highest value that can be assigned to any land, such as the mountains above the Davis County valleys, is for the water it produces and the protection it gives from the fear of floods. This spot in Ford Canyon has been healed through protection, and _ reseeding. Many gullies were stopped in this Davis County project, and no floods have occurred from the areas that were treated. 414 practice improves a timber stand and accelerates the growth. Improper logging and overcutting, on the other hand, can deplete a timber stand and result in erosion. Grass and other plants can be harvested by cattle, sheep, and wild animals if the forage is not eaten by the animals to a point where the vigor of the plant is impaired and the watershed damaged. The death of the plants through overuse is followed by intrusion of less desirable and sometimes poisonous species that cannot maintain the summer forage upon which the animals depend. Erosion, gullies, and bare flood source spots follow plant depletion. Ae conference on October 7, 1865, Orson Hyde said, "I find the oe we live in these valleys that the range is becoming more and more destitute of grass. And where grass once grew luxuriantly, there is now nothing but the desert weed, and hardly a spear of grass is seen. There is no profit in this and it is displeasing to God." The great mineral wealth of the West could not be produced without the vast quantities of water needed for the mines, mills, smelters, and steel plants. Last year in Utah 528 million pounds of copper, over six million tons of coal, and more than one million tons each of pig iron and steel ingots RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 and castings were produced. A dependable supply of water will be needed in this and future generations to maintain this phase of our economy that has become so important. So, for continued life, agricultural and industrial development i in Utah and the West, we of this generation are challenged to protect and wisely use the soil, grass, plants, and timber on our watersheds. By so doing a continued supply of water for valley use will be replenished to complete the resource chain. Man is the dependent link in this chain. Untouched by man, these resources through the ages have built up to their climax, maintained a natural balance, and produced the highest that Nature intended for them until man, God's greatest creation, needed to harvest them for his own perpetuation. The challenge thrown out by Patrick Henry is not something to be cast idly aside. The vital importance of wisely using our natural resources has been recognized for centuries. Apathy has been the greatest foe of conservation. To enjoy the natural resources which are basic to our life and economy is the privilege of every citizen; to take an active part in seeing that they are perpetuated for present and unborn generations to enjoy is the moral responsibility of every citizen. Christine's Extravagance _ Beth Bernice Johnson window of Berk's Department Store for a long time. At last she started down the sunfilled street, walking slowly and undecidedly. They are simply beautiful, she thought, with a stir of excitement deep inside of her. Exquisitely beautiful. They reminded her of something. What was it? She tried to remember if it was the color. She walked slowly down the street, then stopped. With a quick turn, she went hurriedly back to the store window. Not that she was going to buy them, just go in and feel them, see if the leather was as soft as it looked to her. So that is how it happened that she found herself in Berk's Department Store. Christine walked across the thick carpeted floor to the paneled staircase of the escalator and quickly stepped on, holding her purse tightly under her arm. She was met in the shoe department by a clean-shaven, neatly dressed young man. "Could I help you?" he asked very courteously. She stood there undecided as to whether he could or not. At last in a hesitant voice she answered him. "Well, yes, I suppose you can. I saw a pair of shoes in the window downstairs, I'd like to see them, please." She moved across the room to a gray, silk-covered French Provincial chair. The clerk measured her foot, hoe stared into the placing it on the delicately shaped footstool. "Just which pair of shoes do you have in mind?" he asked her, before he started through the curtained doorway to the back shelves. "The sandals in the east window, the ones in that lovely shade of red." Her face was flushed, and small drops of moisture formed on her upper lip. He gave her a very odd look and disappeared behind the curtain. Through deep blue eyes she watched the clerks moving soundlessly back and forth. Restless anticipation stirred inside of her. The shoes were all and more than she had anticipated. As he gently pressed them on her small, dainty feet, they were as soft as a pair of kid gloves. "They fit you perfectly," the young man remarked as he smiled into her face. "Yes, they really do." She sighed as she looked in the foot mirror, turning from side to side. 'They were simply beautiful. She knew she was beaming. "How much are they?" Her voice was eager. It wasn't the cost she worried about exactly, but the practical side of her knew that these shoes were not an essential. When he told her, nounced, "I'll take them." The clerk looked at her, with a somewhat surprised expression on his face. "Do you want to wear them?' he questioned. She anPage 415 416 She felt the color drain from her face. "I guess not," she answered him. "Just wrap them, please, I'm in a hurry." She handed him the money and walked with him to the desk, and on out into the springfilled day. As she neared her own house she slowed down, and opened the door | with the newly purchased package - tightly gripped under her arm. NCE inside, she let her breath go. Her room was down the hall. She quietly started toward it, hoping no one would see her. When at last she was in her room, she leaned against the door, thankful to have carried her new purchase into the house without being seen. Christine sat in the rocker, and before she removed her hat or coat she slipped the bright red shoes on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 her feet. Oh, the feel of them, she thought, as she walked proudly across the room. She hung up her coat and hat and then carefully took off the new red shoes, admiring their color. She gently placed them in the box and pushed them under the chest of drawers. "T will wear them every once in a while for Will," she murmured, turning toward a picture that was placed upon the chest of drawers. "Now I know why I wanted them so much. They reminded me of that pair Will wanted me to buy. He always did like red shoes, but somehow I never thought they were very practical." People would laugh at an old lady, seventy-six, buying such a foolish pair of shoes. "But I can wear them any time I want to when I am alone, and Will won't think I am foolish, I know," she decided, and smiled at her husband's picture. <>< Bad Habits Are Like Weeds Naomi S. MacCabe DAY, as I was weeding a spot of ground at the side of my yard, a friend, an elderly woman, came by. She stopped and watched me for a few moments before she said, '""Weeds are like bad habits. The only way to get rid of each one permanently is to put something else in its place, crowd it out so that it cannot come back."' I realized how true and full of wisdom her words were. I had cleaned the weeds from this very soil, and now they were all back again! Only a few weeks before If I had planted flowers or a ground-covering of ivy, there would have been no space left for the weeds. 'It is the same principle with bad habits. We wish to stop a bad habit. But often we do not make preparation and start a good habit to replace the bad habit. We merely decide to stop. Then, before we know it, the bad habit has crept back like the weeds and taken possession again. Bad habits are like weeds. The only way to get rid of both permanently is to be sure flowers are planted when. We remove weeds, and good habits begun and continued when we break with bad habits. Let's Write a Poem (Continued from page 386) poems, though rejected, no doubt possess the germ of quality. Many have interesting and original viewpoints, but must be returned to their authors because of obvious faults which should not be there. Sometimes they ignore the simplest rules of construction. If we are to grow and improve the quality of our poetry, we must be critical with our own poems, the judges will need to be. Whether our idea or emotion is sufficiently matured within the mind and heart that the final phrasing comes very easily, or whether we act immediately upon a sudden poetic impulse and then work and revise later is of little importance. The important thing is that the poem in its final form shall express through careful choice of words and images, the exact emotion we would like to arouse in our readers. T is hoped that many of the women who read this article will want to enter the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. 'The purpose of this article and of those previously printed in the June issues of The Relief Society Magazine, is to encourage our women to express themselves effectively in poetry, and to review some of the points that should be considered. We must be reminded not only of factors that make for good poetry but of weaknesses which should not appear in our poems. We must realize that if an. Idea is worth expressing in poetry, it is worth the time and effort required to make that idea articulate and the poem structurally sound. If we are interested in poetry enough to want to write, we should be willing to learn something of the technique of writing. No one would consider herself an artist who did not study some phase of art, or a musician who did not acquire some of the techniques of music. Nor would a pianist appear upon a concert program without having first rehearsed over and over the numbers she intends to render. A poem may reach an audience numbering many thousands and may be read and reread and enjoyed over a period of many years. There are a number of good textbooks on poetry writing which can | be enjoyed. 'They are valuable in teaching the basic requirements of poetry, and in pointing out the details of effective composition and the mistakes which we _ should avoid. Obvious rhyming makes a poem commonplace and _ uninteresting. Such rhymes as love and dove, spring and wing, bliss and kiss, desire and fire, have grown stale from overuse. A writer should not use words called poeticisms, such as "tis" "twas," ""gainst," 'neath,' and "bide." Once these expressions were not considered objectionable, but they are not in good usage today. The literary critic Clement Wood says this: "Your poetry will gain strength, dignity, directness, and beauty if you let it speak the natural language that you and your readers understand." Page 417 418 HE poet should avoid inverting a phrase or line when done for the sake of rhyme or meter. Consider the following lines: Pines where birds do shelter seek. Rolled by have the ages. The eyes of the world upon us are. How much more pleasing and ef- - fective these ideas would be if they were expressed through words placed in their natural order. Clement Wood says of this fault: "The best poetic language is the most straightforward." If a certain metrical pattern is begun, there should, of course, be reasonable conformity. Most people enjoy the sound of words that rhyme if rhyming is not made obvious by the use of trite rhyme words, and all of us are moved more or less by thythm. The discipline that pattern and thyme demand is good for all beginners. Many beautiful and enduring poems have been written in free verse, but amateurs often find it an easy and lazy road. Their results are often mere chatter, with little unity and no cadence. It is probably more difficult to make free verse memorable than that written in the traditional forms. If we use this freedom we should be sure that the poem _ possesses thythmic movement; it must in some way sing, or it is prose and not a poem. Some of the greatest truths and most valuable lessons are taught in poetry, but they are taught more by implication than by direct teaching. All subjects should receive careful attention so that they will not sound RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 preachy. Familiar and frequently used subjects, such as motherhood, children, home, and nature, require an original approach in order to make them interesting. The poet should remember this also when dealing with war and _ pioneer themes. It is my opinion that poems submitted to our poetry contests more often fall short of quality because they have been hastily written, and therefore contain many obvious faults that could easily be eliminated, than because of any lack of a worthwhile theme. This should be encouraging to the woman who writes only occasionally. Because of this belief I stress the need to go ever the poem carefully before submitting it, and eliminate the obvious faults which will prevent it from placing in the contest, even though the idea involved be fresh and original. 'The author should read her poem aloud, to see if there are awkward or trite words or phrases. She should see that all "poeticisms" are missing. Then she may ask herself: Have I said what I want to say, or have I sacrificed precious nuances of thought or feeling for the sake of rhyme or meter? Does my poem speak in phrases that are fresh and in some way a little different? Have I made use of descriptive words and images that will stir the imagination, waken memory, or lead the minds of my readers into new lanes of thought? Is my poem as much my very. Own as I can possibly make it? Does it sound sincere, with no affectations or words used merely to attract attention? | LET'S WRITE A POEM Even though a poem may pass the test questions I have suggested, it may not place in the contest. But if it is a good poem it will not be the author's last one. There are greater satisfactions in poetry than winning a prize, as desirable as that may be. One of these is the pleasure of creating something— making an idea articulate so that it may be enjoyed by others. But perhaps the greatest satisfaction ls that through developing the poetic attitude, the poet learns to discover the metals of value which are dif- 419 fused through the common clays of everyday life. Books to Study HamI. LTon, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston 16, Mass. ($1.50). Hittyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston 16, Mass. ($2.00). Woop, CLEMENT: Art and Technique of Writing Poetry, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio ($2.50). ZILLMAN, LAWRENCE J.: Writing Your Poem, Funk & Wagnalls Company, New York City. ($2.75). Only the iP > (Boes Remain Mary Gustafson Wild clematis winds round the sprawling limb Where once a swing was hung, then left to be Frayed token of some child who touched the nm Of earth and sky in swift infinity. Clay brick lies crumbling in the sun Where rampant flame of wilding rose is host To lizards in its thorn. Striped chipmunks run The rotting length of time's gray garden post. The gracile honeysuckle trails the low Rocks foundationing the empty air; The spring house water drifts in trickling flow Through green of moss and lace of maidenhair. Gone... All but golden bees that swarm through day And make a hive in crumbled hearth of clay. She Unra veling C. Cameron Johns River, Where does your dark thread unwind? Morose willows follow the Jong skein, And meadows sleep beside the curving strands. The sun and wind Touch surfaces with laughter, And I, who follow idly the unraveling, Am spun by currents Kindred to your own. From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through: stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for Apnil 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by LaNola C. Driggs _ LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), EIGHTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS A DISPLAY OF HOBBIES Front row, seated, left to right: Rose Woodruff; Melba Larson; Ella J. Done; Anna Tonneson; Myrtle Richins. Back row, 'standing, left to right: President Margaret Allen; Second Counselor Katie Quellmalz; Secretary Katherine McOmie; Lucy B. Wilson; Bessie Evans; Dora Worthen; Mary Dell Young; Janet O'Driscol; DeEsta Cope; Florence Mills, Laura King; First Counselor Hazel Peck. Many different types of handwork were displayed at this hobby exhibit: crochet work, figurines, textile painting, ceramics, paper flowers, and many kinds of embroidery. LaNola C. Driggs is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. Page 420 NOTES FROM THE FIELD — 421 Photograph submitted by Leanor J. Brown ARGENTINE MISSION, TANDIL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to nght: Elder Dean M. Johnson; Elder Juan Carlos Avila; Elder James A. Crookston; Catherine S. Brown; Ethel Bertalot, President, Tandil Branch Relief Society; Leanor J. Brown, President, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Harold Brown, President, Argentine Mission. |: Photograph submitted by Rula W. Choules SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, TAMPA (FLORIDA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS BAZAAR, December 4, 1950 Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Grace E. Fernandez; First Counselor Maud Legler; President Dorthea H. Bell; Second Counselor Mildred Fralich; work meeting leader Genevieve Opp. The bazaar consisted of 145 articles, including various kinds of embroidery, crochet, plain sewing, plastic key rings, book ends, footstools, and four baskets of fruit. Rula W. Choules is president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society. 422 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 Photograph submitted by Lela S. Telford WOODRUFF STAKE, RANDOLPH (UTAH) WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR 1950 These thirty-six visiting teachers shown in the photograph have achieved their excellent record by attending to their duties regularly and promptly and by their devotion to this important part of the Relief Society program. Esther L. Warburton is president of Woodruff Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by May W. Andrus NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, OSGOOD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS HOMECOMING FOR ITS MEMBERS Seated at the left of the table, left to right, former officers: Secretary Beatrice Thornton; Second Counselor Marjorie Oswald; First Counselor Ora Warnock; President Margaret Albertson. Seated at the right of the table, left to right, are the new officers: President Norma Drollinger; First Counselor Lillian Gerrard; Second Counselor Harriet Richards; Secretary Ruth Machen. Seventy-three women, including many former members of the Osgood Ward Relief Society, enjoyed this homecoming social. May W. Andrus is president of North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423 Photograph submitted by Gladys S. Boyer KOLOB STAKE (UTAH), SPRINGVILLE FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A 100% RECORD FOR SEVENTEEN MONTHS Ward officers, seated, left to right in the front row: First Counselor Alta Taylor; Second Counselor Florence Boyer; Secretary Mabel Brown. In the center, front row, Eugenia Bird is seen holding the picture of President Arbeth Dalton, who was out of the State at the time the picture was taken. A party was given by the ward presidency in honor of this successful and devoted group of visiting teachers on March 5, 1951. Gladys S. Boyer is president of Kolob Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Emeline W. Marley PORTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO), MARSH CENTER WARD RUGMAKING | PROJECT, September 1950 The ward Relief Society president, Ada Parris, is seated at the right of the loom, and Margart Pope, work meeting leader, is standing sixth from the left in the back row. | Relief Society women are shown around the loom which they use for their welfare assignments and for custom work. 'The Marsh Center Ward Relief Society was organized in 1882. Emeline W. Marley is president of Portneuf Stake Relief Society. 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 Photograph submitted by Grace E. Berndt - WILFORD STAKE (UTAH), VALLEY VIEW WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A 100 PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR FOUR YEARS This excellent record was begun under the leadership of Lois R. Gunderson, as president of the ward Relief Society, with Afton A. Wright and Ella N. Olsen as her counselors, and Mary S. Goodman as secretary. These sisters were released in July 1950, but the record continues under the leadership of Lenore C. Gunderson as president, with Dorothy R. Larson and. Hazel B. Jackson as counselors, and Mary S. Goodman retained as secretary. The ward has 285 families, 34 districts, 68 teachers, and 6 supervisors. The supervisors at present are: Evelyn E. Bolton; Camille C. Holmgren; Nelta B. Spencer; Catherine C. Williams; Cora R. Hazelgren; Andrea E. Kesler. Grace E. Berndt is president of Wilford Stake Relief Society, and formerly president of Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. Walley View Ward was formerly a part of Big Cottonwood Stake, but is now in Wilford Stake. Photograph submitted by Venice Ricks SAN JOAQUIN STAKE (CALIFORNIA) STOCKTON AND YOSEMITE WARDS SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT YULETIDE PROGRAMS Front row, left to right: Accompanist Rita Spracher; LaVee Pope; Virginia Taylor; Elgie Kidd; Wealtha Mendenhall; Lorraine Peckham; Thelma Cluff; Sophia Bingham; director Dorothy Sutton. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 425 Second row, left to mght: Ellen Burt; Vera Guymon; Lucille Bourdenave; Ivy Brown; Helen Seymour; Cleo Smith; Rita Stone; Betty Williams. Back row, left to right: Sally Vanderford; Zina Shumway; Ella Hart; Olive Sattler, Dorothy Bues; LaVell Burger; Edna Rooker; Margaret Rooker; Mildred Eck. Venice Ricks, President, San Joaquin Stake Relief Society, reports the success of the Singing Mothers of these two wards: "These singers are considered one of the most popular groups in Central California. They were featured during the Christmas season over radio station KXOB, rendering Christmas carols and sacred songs; on December sth, they gave a program for the Stockton Lion's Club. On November 2oth, they were featured by the Stockton Music Club in a full hour's program of choral selections. 'These Singing Mothers have had a continuous singing history since their organization several years ago by Jennie Shepherd." Photograph submitted by Lucille L. Wight and Ezma L. Knudson NORTH BOX ELDER AND SOUTH BOX ELDER STAKES (UTAH) WORK MEETING AT THE INTERMOUNTAIN INDIAN SCHOOL, BRIGHAM CITY Seated around the table, left to right: Gale Brown and her mother, Dorothy Brown; Margaret Lincoln; Rose Young, work supervisor; Joan Christensen; Josephine Antonio and her daughter Bridget Rose Antonio; Carmelita Topha and her mother, Evelyn Topha; Kathryn Daniels. Back row, standing, left to right: Mae Jensen, co-chairman; Beatrice Hansen, chairman; Verna Burt, music director; Marion Newton; First Counselor, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, Hazel Bott; Rita Denetdele, in whose home the meetings are held; Laura Bennett. The Relief Societies of North and South Box Elder Stakes have inaugurated a work class at the Intermountain Indian School, Brigham City, Utah, for the benefit of the women attendants. Instruction is given in textile painting, crocheting, knitting, quilting, and other crafts. The Navajo women do beautiful handwork. 'They are artists with color and are very accurate and patient in learning the correct procedure. Lucille L. Wight is president of North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, and Ezma L. Knudson is president of South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. N 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 Photograph submitted by Annie M. Ellsworth CENTRAL STATES MISSION, CHANUTE (KANSAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Seated at left: First Counselor Marguerite Barnhill, and at right, Second Counselor Carrie Stratton. Standing, at the back: Dorothy Cleaver; Edna West and daughter Ellen; President Thelma W. Postlewait and daughter Becky. This small branch, organized in 1946, consists of a membership devoted 'to the work of Relief Society, and the varied and beautiful articles prepared for their bazaar give evidence of the artistic talent and the industry of these sisters. Annie M. Ellsworth is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. ——- -- J Love My Little Kitchen Lydia B. Egbert I love my little kitchen The tinkling sound of pots and pans With its cosy atmosphere— Before the dinner call. Oh, there never was a palace That could hold one half the cheer! Oh, I love my little kitchen: From the ceiling to the floor; The shining gold-splashed window From each tiny nook and corner Framed in a cnspy frill, To the hinges on its door. With a potted, red geranium | To make it brighter still; Lord, hallow here my humble shrine, And let each task within The braided mats in colors gay; Be ended with but eagerness The plaques upon the wall; For others to begin. TRIBUTE Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells (Continued from page 382) Though comparatively young in years, Adele Cannon Howells was old in hours. She had lost no time. The distance on life's journey ls marked not by leaves torn from the calendar but by the number of good deeds done. Sister Howells lived by faith. She had faith in her co-workers and faith in her leaders. She had an unwavering faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. She trusted in her Heavenly Father with all her heart. In all her ways she acknowledged him and he directed her paths. Let's Write a Story (Continued from page 387) a person. Kipling used a mongoose in his deathless "Rikki-tikki Tavi." The hero, or villain, of one best seller was a storm. Plotting is the chain of events upon which the writer proves his characters and his premise. 'The plot should be taken from _ the events in life that test the mettle of the people that live, or from imaginative events within the possibility of reason. It is of no use to tell the reader that our characters are brave, heroic, and ingenious. We must prove it by plots that put their qualities to the test. WHEN the author has chosen and built well thus far, he can assume the pose of the bystander, like a man who has plowed his furrows and built his dams, and now 427 the number of | * * * * * * a * Beautiful 3-Part * ( horuses for, * Womens Vowes* * bg — Beautiful Dreamer --5.16 a By the Waters of Minnetonka.16 —— Dear Land of Home -- _-15 -_ Green Cathedral _ 18 ae I Heard a Forest Praying _.20 — I'll Take You Home Again Kathleen - io | — In the Time " Roses a 3 Let All My Life Be Music 20 en Tree@S __ 2-----nnneeeeneeeee eee 16 = O Entrancing Night 18 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. [] On Approval []) Charge oP poet Enclosed Name oo ee ceeeee ccc cccecccceceeeeceeecsecessscceeeeceeeseeeesesenseees Address 7 ee eee: City & Stanton eccccecceecee ceecceseceeneneeneene i FIRST OF ALL — RELIABAITY Ly au nes MAIN STREET Vo SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTanM 428 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built v_-- All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People | 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH has only to stand by and watch the water irrigate the land. If he turned pigs or molasses into these channels, his purpose would be defeated, but not more so than the author who sets unruly people in weak" plots and has no direction, or premise. All other qualities of the story should be the natural outgrowth of the premise, the characters, and the plot. 'These other elements are: conflict, background, suspense, mood, dialogue, even the final outcome of the story. The dynamics of reactions of one character upon another, against premise and plot, are the conflicts. Some of those recognized are: man against the elements, man against nature, man against ignorance, man against man, and man against himself. 'The world is full of conflicts RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 that grip the heart, situations so vital that actual life or death depend upon human decisions, and concepts that will sway for good or evil the eternal spirit of man. 'The discerning author will not be forced to the overplotting and unnatural reactions so prevalent in cheap literature. | Plot and conflict lead to suspense, a powerful tool of writing, for without it the story will have no readers. A newspaper tells the story of an event in the first sentence, even in the headline. It is retold in the first paragraph, told again in more detail in the second, and enlarged upon thereafter. 'This newspaper method reverses all the laws of good story telling, but is necessary be- _ cause a space-making editor or a headline-scanning reader may chop it off any place, and it must be complete. In the short story, interest and curiosity are caught in the "story hook," preferably in the first line, and built up from that small beginning. 'There is a steady rise in emotion, a steady thickening of plot and growing tension toward the climax, which immediately precedes the end of the story. The author must finish off the story in quick and telling strokes after the climax, or his readers will leave him and he has lost the game he has been playing with them. "THE author creates the feeling of authenticity in many ways, causing his reader to identify himself with one of the characters of the story, and feel as familiar in the background as if it were his own. Sound character analysis, true emotional reactions, natural conversation, the logical order of events, the LET'S WRITE A STORY flow of one situation into another, all further authenticity. The clever author appeals to the five senses, so that the reader hears the waves booming against the cliffs, rustling and hissing among the rocks, smells the rank seaweed and the faint fishiness of the water, feels the rush of it onto. The beach, the sand give way beneath his feet, the pull of the undertow when it > recedes, as well as seeing the lines of breakers ride in to spend themselves against the land. Take this setting, add a darkening sky, make the windblown seagull be lost against a somber sea, his cry stilled in tempest, and you have mood. Not all published stories have mood, but it is a good tool to engender gaiety, peace, dignity, anger, fright. These can be brought about by using word families. 'The careful author will not mix his key words, as: ethereal, light, sodden, fairy. Mood is the music of writing. All that 'has gone before may have been done in the mind of the author or on paper, but only now will he be ready to write. Good beginnings are striven for, titles carefully chosen, names of places and people worked out to be least confusing and to demand the most arresting attention. A short story will rarely accommodate more than one mood, one pivotal character, or one viewpoint, and will tolerate no excess of words or ideas. A good painter details only the focal point of his painting, and the detail of a short story is given in dialogue and drama. Dialogue should further the story or not be used. Speeches should express the character rather than the author. 429 You Women Can be Prepared in time of emergencies your time will be in demand. Prepare yourselves right now for vital office work. Courses are available to you at L. D. S. Business College either day or evening classes.. SUMMER TERM Starts June 4 You're cordially welcome at | 1) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN 'Salt Lake City IDUUUUQQNQQQQEEOUUUEEOUOQOOUOCEOEREOONOOTOUOUOEREEQUCT TOT EETUOUUET NUE AAAAUUU TNE Professional and Social Stationery C COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 430 PLAN NOW TO ENROLL - - BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 11 to July 20 Second Term: July'23 to August 25 SPECIAL FEATURES THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL se ae BAND AND ORCHESTRA CLINI FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE LECTURES—CONCERTS—RECITATIONS A broad offering of Graduate and Undergraduate courses will be taught by the strong B. Y. U. Faculty augmented by Visiting Specialists. An added feature this year will be Leadership Week, which will be held in conjunction with Summer School. Write the Y Press for a Summer School Catalog BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH Wlusic oe @ FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Lord Is My Shepherd S. S. A. Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes S. S. A. O Shepherd of Israel S. S. A. A. O Day of Rest and Gladness S. S. A. Dear Land of Home Father Most Merciful He That Keepeth Israel Hear My Prayer How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings I Will Thank Thee O Lord My Soul Is Athirst For God If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments If With All Your Hearts GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street _.. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1951 Flash dialogue can break the heaviness of long paragraphs, pages of solid print, but a continued use of it to point up unimportant phases of the story has a slowing effect. Dialogue and drama bring the long range picture of our story into focus, and should be saved for the three to five scenes—not more— that we shall use. Let us write with a feeling for structure and balance, getting who, what, where, and when in the first paragraph. Let us glean technique from every source and perfect the master stroke in writing, for the increasing demand for shorter stories is a challenge to the author. If our story has touched laughter to that ring of faces, released the tension of emotion, or added joy to living, we are vindicated. If it has added richness, delineated a new truth, or provoked thought, it has served. A worthy purpose. If it has gone deeper and touched the heart with understanding, tolerance, and love, or motivated the will to stronger and better acts, we have written - a good story. Books to Study CAMPBELL, WALTER S.: Writing Advice and Devices, Doubleday & Company, New York ($3.50). Hawkins, Wixtiarp: The Technique of Fiction, The Author and Journalist Publishing Company, Boulder, Colorado ($2.50). HocrerE, Peart: The Process of Creative Writing, Harper and Brothers, New York City, New York ($3.00). MonTGOMERY, VAIDA STEWART: First Aid for Fictionists, The Kaleidograph Press, 624 North Vernon Avenue, Dallas 8, Texas ($1.00). Parke, Hucu L.: The Basic Technique of Fiction, Hugh L. Parke Writer's Agency, 389 Tuxedo Avenue, Detroit 3, Michigan ($1.00). rom Near and Four I am first counselor in the Hanna Ward, Duchesne Stake, and love the work of Relief Society. I wish to thank you for a lovely Magazine and the comfort it _ brings into my home. I am the mother of seven children (six of them still living), and we live on a farm. —Connie Lee, Hanna, Utah In noting the article "Soup Makes the Meal" by Sara Mills (March 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine) I find the recipes very attractive. I must try the Minestrone soup sometime. It sounds so delicious. —Mrs. M. G. Bames. Austin, 'Texas Our whole family reads and enjoys The Relief Society Magaine. I send gift subscriptions to our two married daughters because I feel that the stories are inspirational and uplifting. I especially enjoy the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and think it has encouraged the production of some outstanding literature. The articles and lessons are also wonderful. My husband reads and enjoys the Magazine with me. —Mrs. Lella N. Smith, Preston, Idaho - I especially enjoyed the editorial in the April Magazine entitled ""Therewith to Be Content." It is so timely and very encouraging. Your counsel is always uplifting and encouraging to those of us who are so far away from the headquarters of our wonderful organization. —Madge P. Fowler, Pasadena, California Our wonderful Magazine is an inspiration to me. The interesting articles are becoming more valuable to me each day to help solve the myriad problems involved in caring for my family. Now that the children are able to help me a little more, I get more time to read and enjoy the stories and beautiful lesson matemal. —Emeline Y. Watts, Logan, Utah Page 432 I wish to express my thoughts to our beloved President George Albert Smith and I so much enjoyed the "Congratulations on His Eighty-First. Birthday," (April 1951) which so well express the wishes of all of us. I love the social science and theology lessons. My husband is most interested in the lessons and stories. 'They are inspiring and strengthening. The editonal "Therewith to Be Content," (page 252) is so impressive that I have read it a number of times. It comforts me. —Maude D. Fisher, Rexburg, Idaho I like The Relief Society Magazine because it is part of our home. We go to it for comfort, counsel, and advice just as naturally as we would go to an easy chair to rest. It fills many -needs: spiritual food, clean, wholesome recreation, cooking helps, sewing helps, helps in entertaining, arranging flowers. "'Notes From the Field" keep us in touch with what is going on, and the "Woman's Sphere" is just like getting a letter from home. —Louise Mariger, El Monte, California I am renewing my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine, hoping that I am not too late to receive all the issues. It is a wonderful Magazine, and I get so hungry for religion that I read every word of it, and it is a great comfort to me. 'There is a branch of the Church here which we attend, but, with it being in German, we understand very little. —Arlene P. Hemsley Salzburg, Austria The Magazine is so much a part of me that as soon as I receive it I look to see who has written poetry. I am so pleased with the lovely poems, and am trying to be worthy to be listed among the writers. —Hilda V. Cameron, St. George, Utah I would be lost without The Relief Society Magazine. It has been in our home since it began publication. —Alice L. Larson, Logan, Utah An easy, quick aid to understandin iO The Book of Mormon CHRONOLOGICAL CHART OF THE BOOK OF MORMON -..2----------------$3.00 in five colors. One thousand years of history, with synchronological chart of events in ancient Greece and Rome. The Book of Mormon events in 124 headlines keyed to the chart. The best available Book of Mormon visual aid. Popular New Books and New Editions... A MARVELOUS WORK AND A WONDER $1.75 BY LeGRAND RICHARDS Systematic, well written account of Restored Gospel for teacher, missionaries and investigators. DOCTRINE & COVENANTS COMMENTARY $5.00 Explanations of modern revelation. Historical background and factual data added to this revised edition. 922 pages. OUTLINES OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY $2.25 BY B. H. ROBERTS A classic statement of the "case" for the Restoration in four divisions: (1) The Ancient Church of Jesus Christ (2) The "changes" made by man; (3) The "revolt" called the Reformation; (4) The Restoration and the Gospel and Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. — AT OUR DEALERS EVERYWHERE — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers JIU MAGAZINE Previews and Lessons for October JULY 1951 
