THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 JULY 1951 No. 7

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

Fasting and the Fast Day by Milton R. Hunter 436
In Memoriam — Sister Augusta Winters Grant 440
The Family Hour With Grandmother Who Lives Alone by Rosetta Wallace Bennett 446
Vacation in Mexico by Olive W. Burt 450

FICTION

A Vacation for Mother by Sylvia Probst Young 442
For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 6 (Conclusion) by Mabel Harmer 463
Celestia by Agnes C. Beebe 469

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 454
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 455
Editorial: "The Covenant of Freedom" by Vesta P. Crawford 456
Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Primary Presidency 457
From Near and Far 504

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

New Ways With Vegetables by Evelyn Hansen 460
An Inexpensive Outfit for the Baby by Helen Martin 462
Graham Crackers for Summertime Deserts by Sara Mills 470
These Things Are Ours Forever by Betty Zieve 500

LESSONS AND PREVIEWS

Notes on the Authors of the Lessons 472
Theology: Characters and Teachings of the Book of Mormon, Preview 473
Origin and Analysis of The Book of Mormon by Leland H. Monson 474
Visiting Teacher Messages: Book of Mormon Gems of Truth, Preview 481
"And Behold, I Tell You These Things" by Leone O. Jacobs 482
Work Meeting—Sewing: The Art of Mending, Preview 483
Introductory by Jean Ridges Jennings 485
Literature: The Literature of England, Preview 486
Introduction to Romanticism by Briant S. Jacobs 487
Social Science: The Progress of Man, Preview 492
Apostasy and Degeneration by Archibald F. Bennett 493
Music: Fundamentals of Musicianship, Preview 497
Conducting, Accompanying, and Program Planning by Florence J. Madsen 498

POETRY

Hill Treasure — Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 435
"Splendid Hour," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 441
"The Gardener," by Grace Sayre, 445
"On Petals Falling," by Maryhale Woolsey, 445
"With Him So Near," by Ruth H. Chadwick, 449
"Father's Shoes," by Christie Lund Coles, 453
"Golden Wedding," by Alice Morrey Bailey, 459
"Summer Storm," by Beatrice K. Ekman, 459
"Compensation," by Maude O. Cook, 459
"Growing Days," by Katherine Fernelius Larsen, 468
"Gypsy Soul," by Grace B. Wilson, 502
"Light and Shadows," by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 502
"First Steps," by Bernice T. Clayton, 502
"Desert Scene," by Bertha Cragun, 503
"Prayer," by Virginia L. Morris, 503
"On Old Faces," by Mabel Law Atkinson, 503

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Wh y the fumily Heading Club Offers You Sag as OF THESE ANY TWO-: FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP ES, you are invited to accept any two of the wonderare worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without being objectionable in any way. Read, below, how the ful new books shown on this page as your FREE MEMBERSHIP GIFT BOOKS when you join our Book Family Reading Club operates and what it means to you. Then mail the coupon—tithout money—to join the Club _@ Club! The Family Reading Club was founded to select peer an) distribute books for the whole family—books which and get your TWO FREE BOOKS-today! Eeeeeneom crearive | a SND Noy Boa | ONEY ye@ Daa eri Now. Ge JUST MAIL COUPON BELOW! Comp rie MEMSTVE Desi | Dictionary j Ex CREATIVE HOME DECORATING By The Rockows Complete step-by-step methods for working real wonders in your home. 500 illustrations, charts, etc. Publisher's edition, $4.95. TIME FOR TAPIOCA By Charlotte Stryker The true and very funny experiGREATEST STORY EVER TOLD By Fulton Oursler A reverent, faithful retelling of the everlasting story of Jesus, bringing Him excitingly close to you. Publisher's edition, $2.95. Thorndike-Barnhart DESK DICTIONARY A really comprehensive book. ConSON OF A HUNDRED KINGS By Thomas B. Costain The author of ''The Black Rose' new: weaves a rich and enjoyable story of Canada in the nineties. Publisher's edition, $3.00. SEWING MADE EASY By Mary Lynch Shows you how to cut, sew, finish and remodel clothes like a professional! Contains 400 pages, 1000 pictures. Pub. Edition, $3.95. Tains 80,000 entries, 700 illustra~- tions, 900 pages. Recently featured in Life. Pub. Edition, $2.75. Ences of a man, his wife, and their five children in far-off Java. Publisher's edition, $3.00. FAMILY AT BIG SAVINGS pee One Pee cee Pee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee MAIL COUPON TODAY CS J TWO BOOKS FREE |; WITH MEMBERSHIP FAMILY READING CLUB, DEPT. 7-RSM MINEOLA, NEW YORK I Please send me at once the two books I have § checked below as my membership gift books. BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE There is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. Each month our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members — books every member of the family can read with pleasure and discuss with delight. You pay only $1.89 each. (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the colorful book review magazine which will come to your home each month. But it is not necessary to purL. Pd aa = [eesti i chase every selection — you may accept as few as C Time for Tapioca C] Son of a Hundred | four each year to retain your membership. (_] The Greatest Story Kings | Ever Told (1 Sewing Made Easy | SAVE UP TO 50% The Family Reading Club distributes a ''Bonus"' Book FREE for each four selections you take, and you can build up a fine home library this way at no extra expense. Thus, the purchase of Club books for only $1.89 each — instead of the publishers' prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save up to 50%! SEND NO MONEY — JUST MAIL COUPON phe enroll me as a member of the Family Readf g Club and send me, each month, a review of J the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book i offered—at the special members' price of only J $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as 1 few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months, beginning with the curj rent Club selection. As a member, I will receive J a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections i or alternates I accept. If you believe in a book club which will appeal to Mr. The finest instincts of every member of the family, Mrs.! Let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club by Miss (Please Print) I sending you your choice of any TWO of the books 1 shown above as your Membership Gift Books. Just SHOUT TIN. Cere ceecmennnnnnnnennentircenernes i mail the coupon today — without money. However, City. Zone State I as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any | Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2 F 1 time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOWI FAMILY READING CLUB @ MINEOLA, N. Y. Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada Re Serer eee ee ie ee ee Willard Luce, ASPEN-COVERED HILLS NEAR MOUNT TIMPANOGOS, UTAH ' THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 7 C JULY 1951 Fill Sreasure / Dorothy J. Roberts When tides of shadow, stained with sky, are rising 'Toward aspen trembling on the sun's gold reef, I search the hills to gather peace and wisdom From beauty twined with water, wing, and leaf. The hill above me is a green disc lifted Against a cloud, laced with cerulean dye, And from the tilted platter of the ridges, I search the blue eternities of sky. I touch a tall millenium of pine trees And know here some wild, tripping heart found rest, When the knoll was young, upon this pool of shadow, In some past, silent legend of the West. I mark the stern economy of mountains, Each bright-leaved summer layered into mold, No ravage to consume its green, more swiftly Than autumn's scarlet flame and snow's white fold: The centuries are carved on hill and canyon And truth is here, an integrated part, But when I look for peace, I find here only The peace I carry with me in my heart. The Cover: '""This Is the Place' Monument, Salt Lake City, Utah, Photograph by Otto Done. Cover Design by Evan Jensen. Fasting and the Fast Day President Milton R. Hunter Member, First Council of the Seventy S part of the restoration of, the gospel of Jesus Christ to the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the word of the Lord came to the Latter-day Saints as follows: "I give unto you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth" (D. & C. 88:76). Each member of the Church of Jesus Christ when he was baptized entered into a covenant with the Eternal Father to serve him and keep all of his commandments; each of us, then, is under covenant with God the Father and his Only Begotten Son to observe the law of fasting and prayer. This. Covenant must be kept if we are to prove faithful in all things whatsoever the Lord our God commandeth us. The Eternal Father in his wisdom gave to his children here on the earth the commandments to fast and pray, to purify their hearts, and to draw near to him in righteousness. The law of the fast-is probably as old as the human family; and it has been observed by the saints of the Most High throughout. The various gospel dispensations. In fact, the admonition to the seekers after truth in ancient days was as follows: Yea, come unto him [Christ], and offer your whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue in fasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord liveth ye will be saved (Omni 1:26). In ancient times, prophet-leaders repeatedly gave to Church members Page 436 the commandment to observe the law of fasting and praying. For example, in the days of Alma, the following is reported in the Book of Mormon: Nevertheless the children of God were commanded that they should gather themselves together oft, and join in fasting and mighty prayer (Alma 6:6). A careful analysis of the holy scriptures reveals the fact that the ancient prophets maintained that in order to have a perfect fast, it must always be accompanied by sincere prayer, or, as the Nephite historian put it—by "mighty prayer" (3 Nephi 27:1). Some people are prone to question the wisdom of the Lord in commanding his children to fast and pray, and they inquire regarding the benefits derived therefrom. God, however, has not left his children without an answer to such inquiries. For example, Paul, the apostle to the gentiles, in his letter to the Corinthian saints, pointed out a significant and important result. He said: ". Give yourselves to fasting and prayer... That Satan tempt you not" (1 Cor. 7:5). Even if this were the only reason for fasting and praying, the experience would be justified; however, several other purposes shall be mentioned. Soon after the Church of Jesus Christ was restored to earth in the latter days, the Lord gave the saints a commandment regarding the proper observance of the Sabbath FASTING AND THE FAST DAY day. In addition to other important instructions, he said: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer (D. & C. 59:9-14). In another revelation to Church members received shortly thereafter, the Lord made a statement which attaches great significance to the foregoing quotation. He told the saints that many of them who had received the Priesthood were "... Walking in darkness at noonday. And for this cause I gave unto you a commandment that you should call your solemn assembly, that your fastings and your mourning might come up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth" (Ibid., 95:6-7). 'Thus, in modern revelation, as well as in the teachings of Paul, it is apparent that Church members have received the commandment to fast and pray for the specific purposes of keeping unspotted from the sins of the world and from the temptations of the evil one, and also that we might walk in light not only at noon-day but on all occasions. As far as each individual is concerned, probably the greatest values received from fasting are the spiritual ones. Through purity of heart, diligent fasting, and "mighty prayer," the physical body is brought under subjection and the spiritual portion of man becomes dominant. In. This way his spiritual powers are brought into contact 437 with the spirit of God and he is able to attain a more complete and full communion with the Eternal Father and his Only Begotten Son. Thus man is able to draw greater spiritual power and force from the unseen world and inculcate into his life much more of that which ls divine and eternal. N regards to the spiritual benefits derived from rendering obedience to the law of fasting and prayer, President Joseph F. Smith made the following pertinent comment: The Lord has instituted this law; it is simple and perfect, based on reason and intelligence, and... It would result in good to those who observed the law. It would... Place the body in subjection to the spirit, and so promote communion with the Holy Ghost, and insure a spiritual strength and power which the people of the nation so greatly need. As fasting should always be accompanied by prayer, this law would bring the people nearer to God, and divert their minds once a month at least, from the mad rush of worldly affairs and cause them to be brought into immediate contact with practical, pure, and undefiled religion— to visit the fatherless and the widow, and keep themselves unspotted from the sins of the world. For religion is not in believing the commandments only, it is in doing them (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 298- 299). Church members should be cognizant of the fact that fasting and prayer accompany the healing of the sick, the restoration of the lame and the blind, the casting out of devils, the raising of the dead, and the attaining of close contact and communion with God. In other words, the powers of the Priesthood are more fully expressed when faithful saints fast and pray. 438 An excellent example of the added spiritual power attained through fasting and prayer is to be found in the New Testament. On a certain occasion the apostles of Jesus attempted to cast an evil spirit from an afflicted child, but their efforts failed. Upon inquiring of the Lord as to why they had failed, he admonished them for lack of faith and then made the following significant comment: "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Matt. 17:21). A careful consideration of the beneficial results received from fasting and prayer which have been listed, shows why the Man of Gallilee commanded the Latter-day Saints to observe this law whenever they desire any special blessing from our Eternal Father. _If one hopes to obtain the maximum benefit from fasting and prayer, it is imperative that he does everything within his power to purify his heart and get himself in tune with the unseen world. According to Joseph F. Smith, he is to: |. Tefrain from all bodily gratification and indulgences.... [In fact]... It can easily be seen from the Scriptures, and especially from the words of Jesus, that it is more important to obtain the true spirit of love for God and man, "purity of heart and' simplicity of intention," than it is to carry out the cold letter of the law (Gospel Doctrine, page 306). In addition to the numerous spiritual blessings received through observance of the law of fasting, Latter-day Saints who render obedience also receive physical blessings. Fasting gives their bodies rest from excessive eating in which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 the majority of us usually indulge. President Smith made the following observation regarding fasting: ",.. Lt would call attention to the sin of over-eating" (Ibid., page 2098 ). HE Lord not only commanded the saints to fast and pray, but he also established in his Church a fast day which was to be observed once each month. The practice of the Church today is to observe the first Sabbath of each month as the fast day. On this holy day, according to President Joseph F'. Smith:... The law to the Latter-day Saints, as understood by the authorities of the Church, is that food and drink are not _ to be partaken of for twenty-four hours, "from even to even'' (Ibid., page 306). The law of abstaining from both food and water on fast day is completely in accord with the one given to ancient Israel. For example, prior to receiving the ten commandments Moses went up into the mount and there he fasted and prayed unto the Lord for forty days. The good Book states that "... He did neither eat bread, nor drink water" (Ex. 34:28; see also Deut. 9:9). A story familiar to all of us is the one wherein Esther called upon her people to fast and pray in order that God might preserve them from destruction, saying unto them: "Fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day" (Esther 4:16). It is one of the vital laws of the gospel as revealed by the Lord in latter days, for Church members to provide for the poor that dwell FASTING AND THE FAST DAY among them. The following extracts from the Doctrine and Covenants are typical of several revelations wherein the Lord declared his will on this subject: And behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support.... And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me (D. & C. 42:30-31). Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment (Ibid., 104:18). And on another occasion the Lord said: Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved (Ibid., 56:16). In order to provide substance for the poor, a very significant and important part of the fast-day law is fast offerings. It is the will of the Lord and the doctrine of the Church that Church members abstain from two consecutive meals on fast day (the morning and the noonday meals) and that they give the equivalent cost of those meals to the Church as fast offerings. This money is used for taking care of Church members throughout the entire world who are in dire need. If the fast-offering law were faithfully observed, an immense sum of money would be received by the Church each year without extra cost to its members. Since the saints 439° would have abstained from. Two meals each fast day, the cost of those two meals would be saved; and then their equivalent cost: would be given to the Church, thereby making available sufficient money to take care of all of God's poverty-stricken saints throughout the entire world. This is a beautiful and glorious principle pertaining to the temporal salvation of the saints. N the basis of the amounts paid in fast offerings to the Church. During the past few years, by their actions Latter-day Saints profess to obtain their meals at approximately four cents per capita. Would each of us, claiming to be saints of the Most High, feel proud to take eight cents to our destitute neighbor and say to him, "Take this money and purchase yourself two good meals?" The answer is, "No! We would not be proud. We would be ashamed." No wonder the Lord through his holy prophet declared: "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed Thee? In tithes and _ offerings" (Mal. 3:8; 3rd Nephi 24:8). It is quite evident that as a Church we are not being honest with our Father in heaven in regard to paying fast offerings. There are today over a million people who hold membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If all of them would be honest in their observance of the fast-offering law, and if the two meals that they abstain from eating each month were figured at twenty-five cents per meal, the Church would receive over six million dollars per year. If the saints (Continued on Page 501) The Late Augusta Winters Grant (171s, Heber iW. Grant) and #ler Twentieth GreatGrandchild The baby, Annette Smith, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Willard G. Smith, is wearing a dress made by President Grant's mother and worn by him nearly ninety-five years ago. This photograph was taken a number of years ago. Jn Ve enam— Sister Augusta Winters Grant July 7, 1856—Jume 1, 1951 N Friday, June 1, Sister Augusta Winters Grant, wife of President Heber J. Grant, passed away, a month before her ninety-fifth birthday. Her long life was filled with love and service for others, rich in the experiences which have lasting and eternal value for women. She was ever loyal to the Church and interested in all its activities. She was a woman of true culture and sincere charity, a faithful friend, a kind and loving wife, and has been most greatly loved as a homemaker and a devoted mother. When, upon the death of the first wife of President Heber J. Grant, Sister Grant came into the home to care for the motherless children, she wrote in her journal: "I am very thankful to the Lord that I have the privilege of ae this responsibility and trust, and I look upon it as a sacred duty, as well as a pleasure, to devote my life to this sweet task of love." Page 440 IN MEMORIAM |, 44] This she sweetly and faithfully did, not only for these children, but for others of her sisters' families. When both Owen Woodruff, the apostle, and his young wife Helen (Sister Grant's youngest sister) died in Mexico of smallpox, the four children were brought back to their sorrowing relatives in Utah. Brother Woodruff's mother cared for them until her death (the baby having passed away in this interim). After this, the other three children were welcomed into the Grant household and became to Sister Grant like her very own.: All of these children—the "Grant girls" and the Woodruffs—have repaid the loving care given them and, in the twilight of her life, Sister Grant found her days brightened by their tender solicitude. There were others to whom Sister Grant was a "part-time mother," so to speak. One of her sisters died in childbirth, and Sister Grant took the little one into her home until the father, a year or so later, remarried and brought his family together again. 'There were two nieces who made the Grant home their headquarters while attending college. There were other relatives who, though they helped out with the family affairs to pay ' tuition at college, were yet made integral parts of the family, and who never ceased to bless the name of their benefactor. 'There were also immigrant girls whose passage from their native country was paid so that they could come to Zion and work to pay it back. Funeral services for Sister Grant were held on Tuesday, June 5, 1951. President Stephen L Richards read a beautiful message from President David O. McKay. High tributes were paid by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Elder Bryant H. Hinckley, in which the life work of Sister Grant was extolled.: The general board joins with the Relief Society women throughout the Church in extending love, affection, and sympathy to the members of Sister Grant's family. She has been an inspiration to Relief Society women. We shall long remember her as one who patterned love and charity and walked always humbly before her Heavenly Father. Gi Spheroid Flour Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sun is high and still in summer's arc, Sifting hot moments imperceptibly. No nimbus wing and cirrus feather mark Enameled skies, no breath stirs bush or tree. Now petal sheen is warm as sun's own gold; A million suns festoon the apricot; The cherries which the robins fail to hold Are strewn like ruby suns on bergamot. The peach and apple hug their spheres of green And wait their time, unhurried, warm, content. In beryl cones, repose and silence lean In pear tree patterns on the firmament. This is the mother month, the spheroid hour, Waiting and giving, root and core and flower. A Vacation for Mother Sylvia Probst Young lievable. "It's like picking a hundred dollars out of the sky," she said, looking down again at the check in her hand. "Not entirely.' 'Tom smiled proudly at her from across the table. "After all, honey, you did write the story." "But I really didn't expect to sell it. I expected it to come back. I never dreamed of a hundred dollars." "What are you going to do with the money, Mamma?" Velma looked over at her young daughter and at the boys. They were all looking at her eagerly. Even 'three-year-old Denny seemed to realize that something unusual had happened. "Mamma, you didn't answer Joy. R YO Velma it was almost unbeWhat are you going to do with the money?" Velma smiled at her eight-yearold Paul, always so persistent for an answer. "I really don't know," she answered slowly, "there are any number of things I can do with it. Now it wouldn't hurt our house to have a coat of paint, and the living room needs redecorating, or I could pay off the doctor." "Pll tell you what Mamma's going to do with the money—Mamma's going to take a vacation." "A vacation?" Velma looked up at her husband in surprise. "Yes, dear, that's just what I've been thinking you should do. It's what you need, a change and a rest. Aunt Mary's been after you to come to San Diego ever since they moved Page 442 out there, and right now before all the canning starts is a good time to go." "Oh, but Tom, what about you and the children? Maybe we could all go someplace together." Oh, yes, Mamma, let's all go Let's all go to San Diego!" Fiveyear-old Steven clapped his hands in anticipation and his face was wreathed in smiles. "Have you forgotten that we're going fishing, Steve?" his father reminded him. "That's what you said last year, - Daddy, and we never did go," Paul quickly put in. "But this year we'll go for sure. That'll be our vacation." 'Tom rose from the table and pushed his chair back.. "I've got to run now," he said, "see you tonight. And, Mamma, you think about San Diego, and we'll talk about it when I get home." "Mamma, are you really going?" Joy wanted to know. "I think it would be nice for you, and I could manage the cooking with Dad's help." Joy was such a comfort, and she seemed so much older than her twelve years. "I don't know, dear. I really haven't thought about it. We'll see. Right now it looks like Denny needs to go to bed; he's half asleep." When she came downstairs after putting her small son to sleep the boys were all outside and Joy was washing the lunch dishes. "Tl dry them," Velma said. "I see Natey's waiting for you." A VACATION FOR MOTHER "We were going to bicycle to the park. Is it okay, Mamma?" "Be careful then, and don't stay too long." As she finished the dishes Velma was thinking of what Tom had said. It would be wonderful to go to San Diego; she had always wanted to go to California, and she had never been there. Maybe the change would do her good, for she hadn't been very well all winter. She knew that Tom was thinking of that when he had proposed the vacation for her. And only last week there had been a long letter from Aunt Mary urging her to try to come down this year. It wasn't as if she would be spending any money from their carefully planned budget, she had earned the money herself writIng a story. LL afternoon she toyed with the idea. How many times had she read that a mother needed a vacation now and then. And next to mother there was no one quite like Aunt Mary. The children were old enough to leave, too, with Joy so dependable. The more she thought about it the more she liked the idea. With Tom it was all settled. "T've figured it all out," he told her when he got home that evening. "We'll write Aunt Mary that you're coming the first of the week." "Sounds like you want to get rid of me," Velma told him, and was sorry she had said it even, teasingly, for 'T'om's eyes became serious then. "You know I'll miss you like the very dickens, but you owe it to yourself, honey, and you've earned the money; I'm not contributing a thing." 443 It was definitely decided, then. Tom checked bus schedules. "Our bus gets into Salt Lake at 10:25, then there's one from there to Southern California at 2:45. 'That will give you time to go buy yourself a new hat and dress and maybe relax a bit." "But I won't go on Monday. I'll get the washing and ironing done and go on Wednesday morning," Velma finally decided. "You can wire Aunt Mary that I'll be there on Thursday." Although it was not quite 6:30 and Denny was half asleep, they were all at the bus depot to see her off that Wednesday morning. Velma felt a lump rise in her throat as she kissed them. "Don't forget you're going to bring us a special good surprise," Steve reminded her. "Bye, Mamma," Denny mumbled hugging close to his father. "Have a good time," Paul said in his manly way. "T'll take care of everything," Joy promised, hugging her tight. "Be a good girl, now," 'Tom whispered. As the bus left the station Velma watched them standing there waving and waving until they were no longer visible, then she settled down in her seat and thought about her trip with a little thrill of excitement. She was going to San Diego! It hardly seemed possible, but it was. She turned to the window and looked at the passing landscape—the low, red hills and the scrub cedars had a kind of special beauty in the early morning sunlight. Nearer Salt Lake the mountains rose higher and more rugged, with a different kind 444 of beauty than those of her own valley. I guess I'll see greater contrasts the farther I go, she thought. The bus was on time. At exactly 10:25 they pulled into the depot at Salt Lake City. Velma made inquiries about a bus to San Diego, and was about to buy her ticket then, but decided to wait until she came back. She would easily be back by two and still have plenty of time. First thing she would go look for a dress and hat. But by the temple grounds she stopped. The pansies and geraniums and roses were at their loveliest, and, to Velma, whose greatest loves were children — 'and flowers, it was a corner of heaven. She forgot about her shopping, | and enjoyed the beautiful temple grounds until almost noon. T a corner drugstore she. Stopped for a sandwich and then started her shopping in earnest, but at onethirty she was tired, and she still _ hadn't found a dress or a hat. It must be just one of those wrong days, she thought, but after all I don't have to buy a dress today. She stopped to look at herself in a mirror. 'There was nothing wrong with her blue polka-dot. It was really quite smart looking; and her last summer's white straw hat was still as good as new. Why not buy a dress and hat in San Diego? She would have more time down there. That's what she would do. It would be an adventure to shop in a place she had never been before. | Outside of the store she turned to look at the dresses in the window again. A man was just putting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 out another one—a lovely pink cotton with daisies embroidered all across the yoke. "It's perfect," Velma said to herself, "just perfect for Joy. It looks just like her." | Without another thought, she ~ went back into the store, and when she came out again she was carrying a package—the pink dress. It was exactly the size Joy wore. To be sure, she could have made a dress for less, but it wouldn't have been the same. It was better than finding a dress for herself to have found such a sweet one for Joy. She started back to the bus depot then. It would be good to rest awhile before the bus left. Halfway up the block from the depot was a little shop she hadn't noticed before—a little shop with a large front window displaying fishing tackle. Velma stopped to look in. There was everything a fisherman could dream of—rods and boots and baskets, various kinds of hooks and bait, and gadgets she had _ never heard of. She stood looking at them for long minutes, remembering T'om's promise to the boys. In fact, every summer since Tom had come home from the war he had promised himself that he was going fishing, and ever since the boys had been big enough to talk about it he had promised them the same thing. But every summer the "fishing money' had to be used for something else—a doctor bill—repairs onthe car—shoes for the children. And every year Tom had simply smiled and said, "Well, next year maybe we won't be so hard pressed. Just wait until we get our house 'paid for, then we'll make up for it." A VACATION FOR MOTHER Tom was always so cheerful, so utterly unselfish. He had promised the boys they would go fishing for their vacation, but where would he get the money for tackle and fora license?. There is nothing in all the world that would make them all so happy, Velma told herself, and what is a trip to San Diego compared to a whole summer of fishing? At 2:45 a bus bound for Southern California left the depot. Velma watched it go without regret. Then she went to the locker she had rented and took out her suitcases. In the largest one she placed her packages—the dress for Joy and the fish- 445 ing tackle for Tom and the boys. The fishing boots and basket would be mailed out tomorrow. What would they say when they saw her and the things she had brought— the beautiful, pink dress and the wonderful fishing tackle? Her eyes glowed with anticipation. Closing the suitcase, she opened her purse and counted the money there—twelve dollars and sixty-three cents. Enough for a telegram to Aunt Mary and a bus ticket home, and enough for a fishing license. Quickly she crossed to the ticket desk. "How soon can I get a bus to Westville?" she asked the agent eagerly. _>- She Gardener Grace Sayre Retired now, with leisure on his hands, He bends above his work—a city lot For gardening—he has leased. Here he can grow The vegetables he loves, on this small plot. When neighbors ask him, "How much do you want For those big red tomatoes?" he will pause, As though to estimate a price—will flaunt Their flaming globes of color, while his eyes Appraise them lovingly. "TI couldn't sell No, Pll just give you some. Will these help out?" He loves each plant, each hour here with the soil ' To take a coin for what his heart holds dear Would be like Judas-money. Not for gold Could he make bargaining with these, for here Are moments deep in peace. When day is done He holds a part of vegetables and sod, Memories lie bright in the setting sun— While he, with simple faith, communes with God. On Petals Falling Maryhale Woolsey Down to the warm, gray dust of summer sifting, Rose-petals flutter, exquisitely drifting. No longer mere drab dust, unlovely lying, Dust blends with beauty—gift from roses dying... The Family Hour With Grandmother Who Lives Alone Rosetta Wallace Bennett HIS title suggests that Grandmother lives in her own home, that she has good health and a keen, active interest in her family. She occupies her proper place as an important member and has the love, consideration, and devotion that belongs to her. She is honored as a worthy example of the high ideals, principles, traditions, ambitions, and aspirations of the family because she represents the foundation upon which the solidarity, interdependence, love, and unity of the family are built. I have known the inexpressible joy. Of mothering and training my own children and the added joy and honor of seeing my children's children and having them about me and winning their love and loving and blessing them. With a grateful heart, I realize that my place is established in the hearts of my children from generation to generation. From my long life's experience, I have a great store of useful knowledge. I have learned the truth of many things and discovered the things that are false and harmful. I have met joy and sorrow, tasted the bitter and the sweet, from which I have gathered precious lessons. These have kept my feet in righteous paths and given me wisdom, strength, spiritual understanding, and lasting happiness to enrich and bless my life. I am prepared to impart and share my precious counsel and inspiration with my posterity. Page 446 I try to give them praise, commendation, encouragement, comfort, counsel, caution, inspiration, help, and instructions when they come to me. I have found the laws that govern true happiness. I have tried and tested them, and I find that they bring me great satisfaction. Experience has given me a clearer vision and greater understanding of my mission and destiny. I know that I am dependent on my posterity for my glory and exaltation, and I know that I have a duty to them to help keep their feet on the paths of righteousness. They in turn are responsible by their lives and actions to carry on the traditions, maintain the honor and beauty of their noble heritage, and give it to their children, and thus add to their own honor and the honor of their parents. It is an eternal cycle and the family continues to advance in power, honor, and happiness until it reaches eternal glory. I am living in the same house to _which I came as a bride many years ago. We dedicated it to the Lord to become a true Latter-day Saint home in which to bring up our children according to the pattern revealed to the Church through the Prophet Joseph Smith and taught to us by our parents. Since our marriage is eternal, our children are ours eternally. We desired to send our family roots as deep as possible into the nurture of a home founded THE FAMILY HOUR on the plan of the gospel, so that we would live in an atmosphere of faith, security, steadfastness, family devotion, peace, and unity, so that the love of home and family would deeply develop in every heart. 'That blessing has been realized and I, as a grandmother and _ great-grandmother am enjoying its abundant fruits. | All our children were born in this home and from infancy to adult life, their activities have been centered about it. From this home they have gone to Church, to school, to missions, to war, to work, to business, to the many responsibilities life brings, to marriage and homes of their own. My family hours are many and. Varied and are governed by the occasion that prompts them. From the birth of the first grandchild, the pilgrimage began and has never ceased. It used to be Sunday din- 'waiting and they help 447 ner for the first few years—until there were too many grandchildren. Then they always came Sunday afternoons and all were present when the children were small. All branches of the family grew up together in very close and happy companionship and today they are as close as brothers and sisters. 'They are interested in each other and happy in their successes together. Sunday afternoon before meeting time is always open house. It always finds some of my numerous family, often bringing friends with them. Both parents and children find some type of refreshments themselves and each other. I am regaled with all the news from the various branches of the family. Cousins of the same age segregate themselves into groups. 'They discuss school, games, special interests, friends and events of the moment. The younger ROSETTA WALLACE BENNETT AND SOME OF HER GRANDCHILDREN This photograph was taken a number of years ago. 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 "ROSETTA WALLACE BENNETT AND SOME OF HER GRANDCHILDREN MAKING PIE. Ones enjoy themselves indoors or out-of-doors, according to the weather.. The fathers often join in the fun, so that a jolly companionship naturally exists all through the family. Some find a quiet place to read or-visit. The men get together and discuss their affairs. He mothers discuss. Family problems, Church work, and school. There are always a few moments for general discussion, special information,. Or plans for some special family events. There is also time for reports of | funny happenings in the family. Sunday afternoon is a good time to write letters. The boys on missions and in the army often receive letters that have been written at my home. Each person who cares to adds a few lines, makes a comment, or passes on a little personal news. Their letters always include encouragement and a spiritual uplift. The boys away seem to appreciate the connection with the whole group. I have had the privilege of. Accompanying my — grandchildren when they received their patriarchal blessings. 'These were indeed worthwhile hours. I've thrilled when the boys have reported an advance in their Priesthood. I'm very happy to hear the girls report their activities in Church, school, and music. Among special family events are missionary farewell parties at Grandmother's and the reports of those missionaries who have -returned to us after successfully completing their missions. We must also consider engagement parties and showers for the brides-to-be. Birthday THE FAMILY HOUR anniversaries of Grandmother and Grandfather also rank high on the list of special events. At these occasions, outstanding events in the lives of their ancestors are related so that the grandchildren may become acquainted with them. Christmas Eve is also a highlight in the parade of annual family events. Carol singing and gift exchanging are enjoyed by young and old alike. Santa pays us a visit, much to the delight of the youngest family members. Other youngsters are also invited in to enjoy the festivities. _ I also enjoy after-Church study groups with my friends. These are treasured hours. We have so many affairs during the year, they are hard to classify, but we enjoy being together. When food is served, we usually plan to have it served "buffet." 'This is the easiest way to accommodate my ever-increasing family. 'The food preparation is divided equally among the different branches of the family so that no one is overworked, and it is a delight to plan and work together. 449 To this day the path to the old home resounds to the tread of eager feet, and my children and _ their children and their children find that peace, comfort, and companionship and happiness still abide in the old home. It is our inheritance in Zion and the rallying point for all my descendants to this present moment. It isa fond memory to those who are away and a source of strength and comfort to them during their absence as they abundantly testify. I'm sure the pattern given us by the gospel will prepare each of us to establish its counterpart in the happy eternities that await us if we are faithful. To each grandmother the family hour is different. Much depends on the place she lives, her health, and her interests. If she will encourage her children and friends to come often, her life will be enriched. She will spend many happy hours anticipating their visits. She'll find joy and comfort in the realization that she, too, can radiate happiness. Ie With Him So Tlear Ruth H. Chadwick She could not feel that he had gone away— That bit of earth upon the hillside, snug And verdant coverlet for his gaunt form, Stood silhouetted against the sky; her white And frilly window framed-it from the world; The silvered aspens whispered undertones, Cool words of comfort; with him so near, She went about her tasks, and memoried nights Caressed her; days brought peace, her faith complete. Vacation in Mexico Olive W. Burt N the lives of most women there comes a time when they can draw a long breath, look back over the years with more or less satisfaction, and then turn their eyes ahead. 'The girls are grown, married, and in homes of their own. The boys are standing on their own feet. 'The house seems _ rather empty—Mom and Dad rattle about in the rooms that only a few years ago were so crowded. When this time comes, it is time to think about getting that second wind for the long, stretch ahead. It's time for Mom and Dad to take a vacation from the chores that have held them fast at home; to get out somewhere to broaden their horizons, get a new lease on life, take in a store of impressions to enliven the more quiet days to come. Parents deserve it. Not only that, they actually owe it to themselves— now that they have done so much for the family—to renew their own youthful enthusiasms by taking a long trip, seeing new sights. It ought to be to some foreign country to have the fullest value. And to make such a jaunt easy and inexpensive, there is a foreign land right at our back door, waiting invitingly to welcome us. It is Mexico, our neighbor to the south, and an ideal place for any couple to spend a few days, a few weeks, even a few months. There's so much there of. Interest that it seems as if every family should somehow manage such a trip. It's as simple now to go to Mexico as it is to drive all the way across Page 450 the country to Aunt Carrie's. There's a splendid highway right to Mexico City. In fact, the fine PanAmerican Highway is completed clear across Mexico to the border of Guatemala. You can get into your car and drive, as leisurely as you wish, into Texas. From Laredo, Texas, the "gateway" to Mexico, it is only 764 miles across intriguing, country to the capital city. If you go in your own car, you'll have handy transportation to the many historic sites you'll surely want to visit. Or you can go by train or by bus, by airplane or ship. Every transportation facility is at your command, and every company is putting itself out to make your journey safe, convenient, and pleasurable. There are so many things to see in Mexico City, itself, that it would take a volume to list them. The museums, libraries, shops, art. Galleries, theaters, churches, and concerts, are all accessible and cheap. But the thing that most intrigues many visitors is the wealth of the Mayan and Aztec ruins throughout the country—pyramids and temples and: ancient cities that take the breath away in wonder at the civilization that produced them, long before the Spanish conquerors came. Visitors versed in the Book of Mormon find constant, exciting verification of their belief in these tangible, visible remnants of a great culture that once existed on this continent. Only twenty-eight miles from Mexico City is the ancient city of Courtesy, Pan American World Airways System "EL CASTILLO" CHICHEN ITZA, YUCATAN Most famous of the remains left by the ancient Mayan Civilization. Page 451 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 Courtesy, Pan 'American World Airways System RUINS AT UXMAL, YUCATAN Teotihuacan, with its pyramids to the sun and to the moon, its amazingly carved temple of Quetzalcoatl, and the museum filled with relics of the Toltecs who built this fabulous city. EAR Oaxaca, some three hours by car from the capital, are the ruins of Monte Alban, a Mayan city that has yielded rich treasures in archeological knowledge and _artifacts. 'There the terraced steps are in a fine state of preservation; the temples where this people worshiped stand in ruins now. 'The carvings on almost imperishable stone have been compared to Egyptian carving, and here you can stand and see for yourself the figures and symbols chiseled into rock hundreds of years ago by hands to which you will feel a close affinity. At Xochicalco, not two hours by car from Mexico City, you will find some of the most amazing carvings, with the serpent head dominating the designs. This city, located on a hill, as so many Mayan cities are, covers several square miles and is honeycombed with subterranean passages. Only a few miles north of Mexico City is one of the best preserved temples of the Aztec period, at Teneyuca. It is a mammoth, awe- VACATION IN MEXICO inspiring sight, and must have been even more so when it was built, its sides, covered with red stucco, rearing against the blue Mexican sky. Around three sides of this temple is a low parapet from which the ever-to-be-found serpent heads protrude as if to fend away the unbeliever. It is well worth taking a trip to the state of Yucatan, with its wealth of wonderful ruins—Chichen-Itza, itself, is worth the trip. This great, ancient city gives a key to much of the life and beliefs of the people who built it—people who studied the sun and the moon and the stars; who originally believed in one God until their religion was corrupted. Then there is: Uxmal, west of Chichen-Itza, in ancient times linked to its sister city by a broad, white road. 'The temples and pyramids here show some of the finest architecture of the Mayans, with 453 intricately carved walls and beautiful symmetry. There are other sites to attract you if you have time to see them. In fact, the whole of Mexico is dotted with such ruins—so much so that the Mexican travel bureau issues an archaeological map which is given free to visitors. It is wise to send for one of these and to read such books as Dewey Farnsworth's The Americas Before Columbus, and George C. Vaillant's Aztecs of Mexico, before planning your trip. Then you will know which ancient cities you will want to visit and how much time to allot to each. Such planning will pay big dividends in conserved effort and subsequent satisfaction. So, when that breathing spell comes in your life, plan a trip to Mexico and see for yourself the wonders that have been uncovered there. It will pay for itself over and over again in enlarged horizons, and increased vitality. > Si a ther s Shoes Christie Lund Coles I saw his pavement-worn and half-soled shoes, Broken some in the often-polished leather, Standing almost forlornly now, and empty, Yet, as always set carefully together. I thought of the stories he had told me often... Of a boy's toes in the road's warm dustiness; Of the water's coolness, and the sandy shore; Of running in youthful strength and lustiness. And once again I saw the sun-spilled kitchen, The box he made for our patent leather slippers; The way he taught us how to oil and shine them Till we saw ourselves in the gleaming "skippers." I tried not to recall how, toward the end, His footsteps faltered and his youth was done, Knowing there is no faltering where he walks In a land of youth and everlasting sun. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1891 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" SUMMER VACATION: People of leisure go to the seaside, or into the mountains, to escape the heat and dust, to rest weary mind and over wrought brain; to loiter on the beach and catch the soft, invigorating sea breeze, occasionally "gathering shells' or writing in the sand, humming rhymes and ballads that have immortalized the seashore as well as the poet who wrote them; wander among the hills, resting in shady nooks and dells, soothed by the songs of birds and often startled by the glare of some handsome serpent. These seekers of pleasure try to forget the toils and bustle of the cumbrous, noisy machinery of active business life, and often care not even for the daily papers, but amuse themselves in various idle ways, as though life had no higher aim than to banish care. It may be that to linger thus in some secluded spot, amid the beautiful, near nature's heart, passive if not forgetful, exhilarates and strengthens the mind as well as the body for the harder, fiercer conflicts with which all must sometime contend.—Aunt Em. JULY: THE YEAR'S SWEET HEART All things beautiful love her, For she, oh, the shy new-comer, So dear to the world, so dear! Is heart of the heart of summer, And sweetheart of all the year. —Madeline S. Bridges A FEW RECOLLECTIONS: We learn since this great work of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times is going on that it behooves us all to watch and pray. Not only so but to study the Scriptures that we may have oil in our lamps, and not be like the foolish virgins. I remember that Apostle Orson Pratt once said we were Gentile Saints. If so we must improve upon that we have learned, and remember the Jews are to be saved and do a work in the last days; and perhaps be more zealous in the cause than we are today, for we find ourselves overwhelmed by the cares of this world many times, that we neglect the important lesson of "Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you." May we not become weary in well doing, for in due time we will reap if we faint not. If we become indifferent in keeping the laws of our Father, we will certainly lose our reward, and darkness and confusion take the place of light and truth.—M. E. Kimball HYRUM STAKE: Pres. E. Liljenquist addressed the congregation, "I have presided over this branch of the Society for 21 years. I love to work with my sisters, it has been a great pleasure to me, but my health is poor and the spirit tells me my work is accepted, and I wish to resign, I hope you will kindly release me.'' Bishop J. F. Wright replied, "Sister Liljenquist is advanced in years, we appreciate her labors, she has been a friend to the poor." Pres. Liljenquist was then honorably released. Alice Unsworth was then nominated and sustained as President by a unanimous vote. —H. M. Nielson, Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: A Swiss woman has invented a watch for the blind, on the dial of which the hours are indicated by twelve projecting pegs, one of which sinks every hour. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe's energy of mind cannot be better illustrated than by the fact that she began the study of Greek, when she was nearly 70 years old. Now, at 72, she has just read the plays of Sophocles in the original. Page 454 HE Women's _ International League for Peace and Freedom sponsored last winter the project "Art for World Friendship," in which children of twenty-four nations painted pictures by themselves and about themselves. 'The subjects were unusually interesting and the quality of work high. ARIA TALLCHIEF, daughter of an Osage Indian and a Kansas farm woman, a dancer with the New York City Ballet Company, is said to be most gifted in her art, dancing with the style and confidence of a great ballerina. Born in Oklahoma, she is_ twenty-five years old, a beautiful young woman whose recent role in Firebird has brought her much acclaim for "flawless technique." PPLORENCE NIGHTINGALE is the subject of a new biography by Cecil Woodham-Smith. The story of this remarkable woman pioneer of nursing is told with much detail, and many historical incidents are delineated with a fine sense of accuracy. Queen Victoria had a special brooch cast for this "Lady With the Lamp" who became an international heroine. NNA ROSENBERG has been appointed by Secretary of Defense George C. Marshall as his asWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon sistant secretary of defense. Mrs. Rosenberg is highly regarded by both capital and labor, and by both major political parties, for her past success and for her general fairmindedness. She has had important posts in personnel work and _ industrial relations, both in a private capacity, and also in co-operation with Mayor La Guardia, Governor Dewey, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, and with large industrial enterprises, including the Rockefeller interests. HAZEL DORIUS MOYLE, wife of Wilford Moyle, died June 2, 1951 at the age of sixty-two. She was an authority on flowers and gardens and at the time of her death was garden editor of The Deseret News. Many of her excellent articles have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, giving much practical help and inspiration to women-who love to make their home surroundings beautiful. T is refreshing to learn of the moral courage of Kathryn Grayson, star of big picture-musicals in color. In her forthcoming straight drama, she refused to smoke in a scene which called for a cigarette. A nonsmoker, she refused to go against her convictions, however much she may desire preferment in Hollywood. Page 455 Q-> EDITORIAL a VOL. 38 JULY 1951 'She Covenant of ieaae aee i And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts—yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage... (Alma 43:48). N this time of confusion and conflict among men and _ nations, there are many who believe that the individual is of little worth, that he should be numbered among multitudes who are forcibly pressed into great mass movements directed by a few who have taken great power upon themselves. There are those even in our own country who believe that it is both useless and unrewarding to struggle for the retention of individual freedom, for the right of choice, for the perpetuation of those laws which have established the free societies of the earth. 'There are those who seem to have forgotten that the gospel cannot be carried to the peoples of countries which have lost their political lib- | erty; and there are those who do not realize that only in a nation where the rights of individuals are upheld by codes of law can the Church exist and minister to the spiritual needs of the people. In fact, it was the Constitution of the United States which made it possible for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to be restored upon the American Continent. It is a direct result of the protection of that great document that our Church is permitted to Page 456 grow and expand in the dominions of liberty. The American continent has been blessed with a sacred tradition of freedom. It is indigenous to this continent. The Book of Mormon relates the history of the upholding of liberty among the ancient inhabitants of our land. "And Moroni sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts — yea the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from _bond-?? Age Both the Old and the New Testaments declare that the children of God hold within themselves the power to be uplifted by the earth experiences which develop and magnify their immortal spirits. 'The ancient gospel which Jesus brought to the earth in new glory held forth the sacred truth that man was not created to live in doubt and sorrow and insecurity a few brief years upon the earth and then be lost forever. The gospel plan declares the everlasting existence of the spirit of man, that his life upon the earth is a precious and essential part of his upward progress, his increasing knowledge, his unending opportunities, and his eternal life. It was with devoted faith, and with an inspired understanding of the worth of man, that the builders of our Republic formulated the Constitution of the United States, and under its steadfast protection EDITORIAL has grown the great tree of liberty. It would be well for all of us in this time when our Constitution ls under attack even by those who enjoy and profit by its protection, that we read and study with a newly awakened devotion the words of our great Constitution, that we may know of ourselves the worth to us of this magnificient code—"the entablature of liberty." It would be an experience of great worth and of inestimable importance for us to read with gratitude, with apprecia- 457 words which guarantee to us those liberties which are more precious than life, and which, in eftect, do protect us and vouchsafe "'life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." _ It is easy to forget our great heritage. Our codes of justice may be lost through indifference and lack of knowledge. They may perish unless all of us who know and love the fruits of the tree of liberty be ever valiant in actively defending every root and branch that protect the house of freedom. Tion, and with a new allegiance, the —V. P. C. Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Primary Association Presidency ELIEF SOCIETY members throughout the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of the Primary Association, appointed May 16, 1951. Sister LaVern W. Parmley, the new president, has selected as her counselors two former board members, Arta M. Hale, as her first counselor, and Florence H. Richards to be her second counselor. These women are experienced, capable, and outstanding leaders, who will direct the Primary Association with enthusiasm, spiritual insight, and a sympathetic understanding of the boys and girls of the Church. Sister Parmley, wife of Dr. 'Thomas J. Parmley of the University of Utah faculty, and daughter of Eugene and Gertrude Park Watts, of Murray, Utah, is the mother of a daughter and two sons. She has held many positions of responsibility in the Church, including service on the Bonneville Stake Primary Board, and has been a member of the general board of the Primary Association since 1941. In 1943 Sister Parmley was made second counselor to General President May Green Hinckley and was first counselor to Sister Adele Cannon Howells at the time of Sister Howells' death, April 14, 1951. Sister Parmley, a beloved leader, is much appreciated for her executive ability, for her warm friendliness, and her faith and sincerity. Sister Hale, who was born in Oakley, Idaho, a daughter of Harrison R. And Sarah Ann Williams Matthews, is the wife of C. Dewey Hale, dean of boys at South High School, Salt Lake City. She is the mother of two children, a daughter and a son. After her graduation from the University of Utah, Sister Hale taught school in Oakley, Idaho, and later, during World War II, resumed her profession as a teacher in the Granite District, 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 Photograph, Courtesy The Deseret News NEW PRESIDENCY OF THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATION Left to Right: First Counselor Arta M. Hale; President LaVern W. Parmley; Second Counselor Florence H. Richards. Salt Lake City. She filled a mission to the Eastern States before her martriage in 1928, and she has served with devotion and ability in all the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church. Sister Hale has personal charm, a happy and enthusiastic disposition, and much well-directed energy, qualities which will be of great value to her in her new position. She was appointed to the general board of the Primary in 1945. Florence H. Richards, a lovable and gracious woman, is the wife af Dr. Lorin L. Richards, a Salt Lake City dentist. She was born in Logan, Utah, the daughter of Heber A. And Martha Sweeten Holbrook. She is EDITORIAL ) 459 a graduate of the L. D. S. High School and has had much experience as an officer in the Y. W. M.1. A. And in the Primary Association. She was appointed to the Primary general board in 1946. Her friendly manner, her humble faith, and her love and understanding of children are attributes which qualify her as a competent and inspirational leader of youth. Sister Richards is the mother of a son and two daughters. Sister Dessie Grant Boyle, who was the second counselor to Sister Adele C. Howells, remains as a member of the general board, and will continue her devoted service on the editorial board of The Children's Friend and the board of the Primary Children's Hospital. The general board congratulates the sisters who have been called to preside over the Primary at this time and extends love, confidence, and best wishes to them. <i. G olden Wedding Alice Morrey Bailey Yours is the golden fruit of fifty years That sprang from chosen seed to bloom and grow, With rooted life from April's sun and tears And equal courage for the heat and snow, And we would trace your path and learn your ways, For we have seen recorded gentleness Here where the twining fretwork of your days Erected leafed and flowered loveliness. You stand upon an upper bough of time Unfearful of approaching winter's blast, Frosted with late-season's silver rime, Sun-sweet with mellowed wisdom to the last. Returning youth for lips and cheeks and brow Could touch no more of beauty than is now. Summer Storm Compensation Beatrice K. Ekman Maude O. Cook. Night and storm efface the sky; _ I cannot soar on eagles' wings The silver-arrowed rain, To see the far-off lovely things, Projected by vehement wind, But near at hand life's tapestry Mows down the ripened grain. Reveals its golden threads to me. New Ways With Vegetables Evelyn Hansen Home Service Director, Utah Power and Light Company yews intentions may be good. You may buy the vitamins at the store in lovely fresh produce, but do those nutrients ever reach your family? It might be no more than twelve feet from the dining room table (maybe less, if your sink and range are less distance than that from the table) that a lot of the nutritive value is lost. For, in the cooking process, the minerals and vitamins are either retained in the vegetables or lost in the water and steam of the cooking process. But, can we keep these precious food values in the vegetables, and get them into our bodies where they will build good muscles, bones, and nerves, and make healthy, happy families? First, select fresh firm vegetables; wilted ones have already lost some of their value, and freshening in cold water does not bring it back. Next, store vegetables, according to the kind, in a cool, moist place for greens, or a cool, dry place for root vegetables such as potatoes. When preparing vegetables for cooking, scrub with a stiff brush, instead of peeling, if possible. This is especially good for potatoes and carrots. Use a peeling tool to remove the skin when vegetables must be peeled, and take away as little of the vegetable as possible; peel just before cooking. Avoid letting peeled vegetables stand in quantities of cold water before cooking. Now for the actual cooking—here are the four important "Do's." 1. Use a small amount of water, for the average family one-half cup of water is sufficient to cook a pan of vegetables. 2. Use a utensil with a well-fitting lid that will hold the steam in. Do not raise the lid or stir the vegetables while cooking. 3. Use high heat until vegetables are steaming, then reduce to low and keep them just steaming—not boiling rapidly. 4. Cook as short a time as possible until just done. Serve immediately. Frozen vegetables need not be thawed before cooking. If vegetables are frozen in a solid block, raise the lid once when steaming has begun, and break up the block so that cooking will be uniform. Leftover cooked vegetables, as well as raw ones, can be used in salads. The natural flavor and the most food value of vegetables are best retained when they are cooked for the shortest time possible, in the least amount of water, and served immediately. Use from one-fourth cup to one-half cup of water to one and one-half pounds of edible vegetables. Cover. Bring to a quick boil, and reduce heat to "low." It is advisable to have the water boiling before the vegetables are added. Page 460 NEW WAYS WITH VEGETABLES 461 Recipes Hasu-STuFFED SQUASH 2 acorn squash ~~ 1 can corned beef hash 1 onion salt " tsp. Dry mustard Start your oven at 375° F., or moderate. Cut squash in half, lengthwise, take out seeds and stringy pulp, and place cut side down in a shallow pan. Add 1 cup boiling water and steam in oven for 10 minutes. While squash is cooking, chop up the onion fine and mix, along with mustard, into the hash. After 10 minutes, take squash from oven, sprinkle lightly with salt (hash is quite salty, so go easy) and fill each center with the hash mixture. Put back in the oven without water and continue baking another 20 minutes, or until you can pierce the squash with a fork. YALE BEETS 6 to 8 medium-sized beets "2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Flour "2 ¢C. Orange juice "2 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Butter Wash, pare, and dice uncooked beets. Place in a baking dish. Mix dry ingredients together and add orange juice. Pour over beets; dot with butter. Cover and place in oven for 1 hour at 350°. Brownep Potato LOAF 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 4 to 5 c. Cooked potatoes, diced 3 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 1 c. Milk cheese Make a thick white sauce of butter, flour, and milk. Add potatoes, seasoned with salt and pepper and parsley, and cook for 5 minutes. Press into a loaf pan which has been lined with waxed paper. Let stand in refrigerator overnight. Unmold. Turn onto oven-proof platter. Place in oven for 50 minutes at 350°. Lima BEANS AND ALMOND UNIQUE 3 tbsp. Butter dash cayenne 3 tbsp. Flour % c. Grated sharp American cheese 1 No. 2 can lima beans potato chips milk /, ¢. Toasted almonds "2 tsp. Salt Combine butter with flour in a double boiler. Drain liquid from the lima beans and add enough milk to make two cups liquid. Add to flour mixture and cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Add seasonings, cheese, and lima beans. Heat thoroughly. Place a mound of potato chips on each plate; serve the lima beans over them and sprinkle with four or five almonds. Serve at once. Six servings. Carrots A' LA KING 1. Prepare 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 2 c. Medium white sauce 3. Pour over c. Diced, cooked carrots. 2. Add 3 1 tbsp. Minced pimiento 4. Serve on hot toast, or over 1 tsp. Grated onion individual meat cakes 1 tbsp. Diced celery An Inexpensive Outfit for the Baby | Helen Martin A young friend of mine, who is expecting her first baby, lamented the high cost of an outfit for the baby. "Why, do you know," she asked, "that it costs a small fortune for crib sheets?"' I agreed that preparing for a new baby is expensive. '""But have you thought how many practical and attractive baby things can be easily and cheaply made?" I asked. ""Take those crib sheets you mentioned, for instance. They can be made for practically nothing except a few minutes time and an old sheet." When my young friend asked where—just where was that "old" sheet coming from, I took the hint and brought out the sewing machine and a well-washed, clean, old sheet that was torn and worn beyond use on a long bed. By judicious cutting, I made her two fine crib sheets in a short time. "There you are," I told her, "and here is another sheet for you to cut up for yourself. And think of all the things that can be made from the pieces left over." She thought a moment. "Tell me more," she begged. I pointed out that there are many fine materials around the house (or her mother's house, or a friend's house, for she was new at housekeeping and most of her linens were still brand new) that could be used for the baby. Bedding being one of the most expensive items on every baby's list of necessities, it behooves the new mother to look first for blankets and sheets that are of no use for grown-up beds. A wool blanket is a treasure, and if you don't think the color matches your nursery decorations, cover it with a piece of print or rayon and tuft it with ribbon bows like a quilt. If you do this, you can piece togethcr parts of the worn wool blanket, either double or single, without the blanket showing on the outside. The softest of new cloth is harsh compared with old linen. I have taken my old linen tablecloths and have made them up into washcloths and towels for my babies. The old linen has been perfect for ceremonious and casual face washings. It is so delightfully soft and pleasant on tiny pink faces. Careful hemming has made these washcloths last through many launderings. Worn Turkish towels can be cut into bibs and bound with bias tape or ribbon. Large towels make attractive bathrobes, too. Some of the most satisfactory bibs I ever made for my youngsters came in handy just about the time they were beginning to eat cereal and vegetables. They were made of plastic materials with a pocket all along the bottom edge to catch the crumbs or "spill." As my children grew I made large apron-type bibs to cover the arms and front, still with the pocket. A half yard of plastic makes six small bibs with pockets, or three — cover-up ones. "Your baby will need a lot of little creepers and overalls,' I told my friend as she was getting ready to leave. ""These items take such tiny pieces of material. Keep a watch out for any pastel wool dresses or jackets that are about to be retired. Delicate colored sweaters can be raveled for the yarn which can be used again." A first-time mother shouldn't be afraid to ask friends and relatives for their usable materials. 'They will all be happy to co-operate in providing an outfit for the new baby. " Page 462 For the Strength of the Hills CHAPTER 6—CONCLUSION Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan from Santa Monica, California, comes to Crandall, Idaho, to teach, marries Stanley Rodgers, a farmer, and tries to remodel and refurnish their big, old-fashioned farm. House, but does not have the money to do it. Three years after the birth of thei son Richard, Camilla takes him to California with her to help her Aunt Lillian, who has broken her leg. Camilla renews her acquaintance with Veronica Wilding, an interior decorator, and delays her treturn to Idaho to finish work on a house. T' was fortunate for Camilla that her aunt required nothing more of her than to keep a check on the household help, for she soon became completely engrossed in her interior decorating project. She put Dickie in a nearby nursery school, where he reveled in the association of other children, and she spent hours every day looking over upholstery, draperies, and floor covergs. It was likewise fortunate that her aunt gave wide approval to the whole thing. "Imagine you doing over the Cartwright house!" she gloated. "I can't wait to see it. I hope that I'll be on both my feet as soon as youve finished. I Shouldn't be surprised but that this will lead to some other jobs. Everyone knows the Cartwright house." "Oh, no," Camilla protested, "Tl do well to finish this one." It was absurd to think that she would take on another job. By the time she had finished her aunt would be "on both her feet," and she would be free to go back to the farm and to Stan. He had been a complete darling about letting her stay. She certainly wouldn't impose on his good nature any longer. _ She was another three weeks finishing the Cartwright house and came to the end of her work with genuine pangs of regret. It had been a labor of love, even though she was paid handsomely for the work. It was the first time in years that she had been able to give full vent to her creative powers, and it seemed as if they had been pent up within her and burst into full bloom at this opportunity. She was indeed proud of the results, and the owners were more than pleased. In fact, one of their admiring friends took Camilla aside, when the house was being shown, and insisted, "I wish you'd come out and see my place. It's entirely different from this—quite modern, in fact. But I'd love to have your ideas on it." Camilla went. It wouldn't hurt, she reasoned, to spend an hour looking the place over. It would be fun to see what it was like. She found, as the owner had said, a strictly modernistic house in a magnificent setting upon a_ hill. There were enormous glass windows facing the ocean and a living room with one wall of sand-blasted pine. "You can really go all the way out on this one, can't you?" she exclaimed. "I saw a figured wallpaper _ the other day that would be perfect It was so brilliant Page 463 on that end wall. 464 that one wall would be all that any room could take, but with glass on that side and pine on that one, it could be handled here with the greatest of ease. And wouldn't you love American Beauty carpeting and a couple of chairs done in just the right shade of green?" "Your ideas sound exactly like the ones that have been spinning around in my own head—only | couldn't get them to jell," said Mrs. Maitland, with an approving nod. "And listen," she went on with the air of a conspirator, "would you think I was out of my mind if I had an all-white bedroom?" "Not at all," smiled Camilla, "anyway, not if you had a rich color in carpeting to set it off, say a vivid blue or rose and one or two color prints on the wall." "Yes, that's it," she agreed enthusiastically. "Come and see my kitchen. You'll never believe it." AMILLA looked with something akin to awe at the sparkling kitchen with its automatic dishwasher, automatic clothes washer, and automatic everything else that could go in a kitchen. 'The picture of another one flashed through her mind. It had a monstrous black coal range, a wooden sink, with the walls bravely painted in Mexican colors. She half smiled. _ "This is our patio," said Mrs. Maitland, walking out through the door. "We'll eat out here much of the time. I'm delighted that you're going to do the house for me. I love your technique." Camilla caught her breath. "But I can't," she protested, "I'm only here because of my aunt. The minRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 ute I can leave her I must go home again." "Nonsense, what's another couple of weeks? You're a genius. You shouldn't waste such talent any more than if you were a musician or an artist. You really are an artist, you know." It was all very flattering—and the money would go so far towards doing some of the things she wanted to do on her own home. "T''ll think it over," she promised. "I'd_ really love to do it." She was still undecided the following day when Mrs. Maitland called on the phone and said, "I have an appointment at Stauffers to look at floor coverings. May I pick you up at halfpast ore?" "Why, yes—yes, of course," answered Camilla, feeling more than a little guilty. I don't know why I should feel guilty, she reasoned, as long as I'm down here anyway, and Aunt Lillian doesn't need much of my time. Further reasoning told her that she could be going back home, since her aunt didn't need her at all, and Stan undoubtedly did. And yet—it was such an opportunity. She really did have talent, as Mrs. Maitland said, and she could surely use the money. There would be no great harm done in taking just this one more job. She ran upstairs to get a hat and to look in on her aunt. "I'm going with Mrs. Maitland to look at floor coverings for her new house. I'm not sure yet that I'll take it, however.". "Don't be ridiculous!" her aunt snapped, "of course you'll take. It. Do you think that jobs like this are handed around every day in the FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS week? Some people work for years to get an assignment like that." "Yes, I suppose so," Camilla answered noncommitally. She was immensely interested in the new patterns and colors in carpeting and threw herself wholeheartedly into the fascinating project of their selection. "You are wise to start with the floor coverings," said the salesman. "They should always set the tone for the rest of the furnishings." | She had thanked her lucky stars _a dozen times for the nursery school. It was so convenient, and Dickie so enjoyed playing with the other children. I really don't deserve to have everything working out so easily, she thought one morning, as she waved goodby to him inside the white-fenced play yard. This was the day she was selecting the draperies and it was as exciting as seeing a new play or taking a first airplane ride. 4 HE usually came home for lunch, largely to do her duty by her aunt, and if she had time she also stopped in at the nursery to get * Dickie's moist kiss. Today she was tempted not to stop. The draperies were proving a bigger job than she had anticipated because of theexotic colors used in the walls-and carpeting. Anything that would just "get by" was not to be thought of. 'The draperies had to be exactly right if she had to go through every shop in metropolitan Los Angeles. It was five minutes to one when she left the house. I'll just take one - peek at Dickie, she told herself, I'm entitled to that and so is he. 465 Mrs. Jackson met her at the door, and Camilla knew at once that something was wrong. "What is it?" she asked anxiously. "Perhaps nothing serious. At least, I hope not. One of the little boys brought a truck and they took it to pieces. Dickie swallowed something. I don't know what, and he says it hurts. If it had gone right into his stomach it shouldn't hutt, and maybe it doesn't. He may be. Just imagining." "His imagination doesn't go that far," said Camilla, brushing past her. "Where is he?" "In my living room. I'm keeping him quiet and I've called a doctor." Camilla went in and gathered him in her arms. "I swallowed a truck," he announced, "and I don't like it." "No, Mother doesn't like it either," she agreed. "Where does it hurt?" He pointed to his chest, and she felt her anxiety deepen. If it was caught some place where it couldn't pass on of its own accord there might be real trouble. Dr. Malcolm, who arrived within the next few minutes, looked grave. "We'll have to take an X-ray right away. But don't worry too much. Sometimes these things can be removed without too much difficulty." No, she wouldn't worry too much. But she wondered if she dared trust her legs to hold her up long enough to carry Dickie to the car. The X-ray was taken, and the doctors told her the facts rather bluntly. The object had lodged in his left lung and must be removed as 466 soon as possible. 'They would try to take it out here, but if they failed the child would have to be flown back East where there were still more specialized instruments for such work. Much would depend upon Dickie's co-operation with them, because he couldn't be given a general anesthetic. "Can it wait until tomorrow?" she asked tensely. "Yes. We would want to wait that long to study it from every angle." "T'll telephone his father to come. He can do much more with the child than I can." She wished that she could handle it alone. It wasn't quite fair to take Dickie away, be responsible for getting him into difficulties, and then have to call on Stan to get him out again. But this was no time for pride. The baby had to have every chance. She phoned from the doctor's office. "We need you," she said simply, after telling him the bare facts. "I know that he'll get along all right if you're here to help." "Tl get the first plane out, if I have to hang onto the tail," he promised, and she hung up with a sigh of immense relief. HEY took Dickie to a hospital - and she insisted upon staying. "He might get frightened and cry and that would be harmful, wouldn't it?" "It might be," the doctor admitted. "Anyway, you won't sleep at home so you might as well stay awake here." She had phoned the housekeeper at her aunt's house to send Stan on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 when he arrived, and it was early morning when she looked up to see him standing in the doorway, weary, sunburned, and unshaven. "Oh, Stan, darling!" she cried softly, rushing towards him. His strong arms closed about her and his lips were on her hair. It was a haven of refuge such as she had not fully realized. "It's so good to have you here," she murmured. "It's good to be here," he replied. Then, as the child stirred, he went over and said, "Hi, Champ." Dickie sat up in his bed and asked accusingly, "Where have you been?" "T've been home. You're the guy who has been away. Want to go back with me?" "Yes." He started to get up. "Just a minute, Rusty," he said, laying strong gentle hands on the boy's head. "Mummy tells me that you've been eating some spare parts. We've got to take them out and leave them here. Shall I ask the doctor to take them out?" "Yes," he nodded, and Camilla's hopes rose at his smile of supreme trust. Stan's administration and the power which radiated from -him helped her to bear the suspense and found echo in Dickie's calm demeanor. Later in the morning she sat out in the corridor for what seemed interminable hours while three skilled specialists, her husband, and her son battled on the other side of the door. Prayer welled continually in her heart. If they were not successful they would leave for the East that evening. How could she bear this agonizing suspense for more days? How did mothers bear | | | | FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS anything when their children were concerned? Some even had to bear their loss. What would she do without the gospel! Nurses walked up and down the hall quickly and efficiently. She resented their apparent cheerfulness and unconcern, although reason told her that they couldn't take on the grief and anxieties of every parent who came in., She sprang up as the door opened, but it was only an interne coming out, and he said merely, "Can't tell yet. We'll soon know." Soon! What a word, when every minute dragged by on leaden feet. Then the door opened again, and Stan came out. One look at his face and she gave a gasp of relief and fainted quietly away. When she came to she was lying on a bed, and the doctor was grinning at her. "Is that any way to react from good news?" he demanded. "What would you have done if it had been the other way around?" "Died, I think." "Incidentally, when did you eat last?' he went on. "Yesterday morning, I think." "IT think so, too, probably. Send for a tray." During the remaining time that Dickie had to stay in the hospital they spent as much time with him as they were allowed, and the rest of the day they sat out on the lawn or strolled down the tree-lined avenues. "T'm only half a person without you, Stan," she said contentedly, "only I didn't quite know it until now." Pil 467 HE took him to see the Maitland place and described the plans she had had. "I was just in the middle of draperies when all this happened," she said with a wry smile. "You'll want to finish it, of course?" He said "of course," but it was still very much a question. "No." She shook her head. "T'll turn it over to Veronica. I finished another house for her when she wanted to go to Hawaii. She's back now and can do the same for me." "You think that you can be contented to give up work like this and go back to the farm?" He walked over to the huge window and looked out upon the ocean. "Tf I can get back home again with you and with Dickie safe and sound it will take a bomb to get me out again," she replied decisively. Aunt Lillian heard the news in amazement. "You don't really mean that you will give up that job right in the middle?" she stormed, "an opportunity like that! It's unthinkable." "T can think of it with no trouble at all," said Camilla calmly, "and the place won't suffer in the least. Veronica and I have much the same ideas. If the worst came to the worst, Mrs. Maitland might even enjoy decorating her own house. It has been done." She went upstairs to pack, and Stan followed her. "I want you to think twice about this before making a final decision," he urged. "You've evidently been making quite a bit of money and enjoying it. Remember, you're going back to that ugly old farmhouse." 468 "IT know." She picked up a pair of Dickie's socks and stuffed them into the bag. "And that awful old coal range." "Sure." She folded a blouse carefully. "But I've had the big window cut in the living room while you've been gone.", "Oh, Stan!" she cried, throwing her arms around his neck, "you darling! Now I can go ahead with the rest of it. And think of all the practice I've had on these other houses." It was a late afternoon in September when they drove the final distance home past yellow fields. "It reminds me of my first trip here, four years ago,' said Camilla. "Nothing has changed very much. The same purple sagebrush in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 distance, the same purple mountains. 'They'll always be the same." As she got out of the car, she - stood for a moment and looked at the brown, weather-beaten house. It had a strange dignity, a look of belonging to the land. She took Dickie by the hand, and they went inside while Stan gathered up their luggage. Even her imagination had not prepared her for the magnificent view of the mountains through the great window. She walked over, almost with awe, and looked out. There was grandeur, everlasting beauty, and strength in the towering peaks. "The strength of the hills,' she said to herself, "that's what I want—for myself—and for my children.. It will be ours— here." G rowing Days | Katherine Fernelius Larsen Memorable days, You were not great With any large achievement; The sun slid goldenly down the sky from noon To the accompaniment of summer accents: A hayrack creaking barnward, The blackbirds' roulade from the poplar row; Innumerable insects busily singing their industry, The water-ripple's shallow notes over smooth stones; The interplay of dappled light and shade Under trees full-leaved and lushly green; These—only these—were the measure Of eventful days When every flower was a portent, And a butterfly's erratic flight Was a brilliant grace note Over the summer's lovely swelling tempo. Mirage Agnes C. Beebe looked at the familiar scene before me, the small village, and beyond it several sections of level crop land. Farther north were the hills of pasture that gradually became the brakes and buttes of the Bad Lands. I had gazed on that scene so many times that I could instantly spot a horseback. Rider winding down through the hills, a strange car bumping along the rutty road, or even a stray cow on the wrong side of the pasture fence a - mile north. Everything followed the usual pattern, Mrs. Brownell's washing moving a little in the breeze, a tractor in the section north of town, cattle feeding on the green hills, and beyond them the Bad Lands making a low, jagged outline against the sky. But it wasn't the well-known skyline. I had been looking at it without really seeing what was before me. From the center of the horizon eastward it was the same as always, but to the west there rose towering buttes. No! It could not be. I knew that part of the country well. 'There just were no tall buttes there. I was squinting to better focus my eyes. The buttes were getting clearer. 'They were steep-cut like those along the north side of the Little Missouri River, and at the foot of them I could distinctly see buildings. I removed my glasses, cleaned them, wiped my eyes, and put the glasses on again. 'he mystic buttes | raised the office window and > were even plainer, and now that I could see the outline of the buildings more distinctly, they were familiar. There were no ranch buildings of such size, however, in that part of the country. The one that stood out was large and square, perhaps a consolidated school. I am imaginative, but this before me was no product of my imagination. I roused the Judge from his afternoon nap. "Judge Black," I called, "Judge Black, please come here and look over north of the Herman place." Startled at the urgency in my voice, the old man stepped quickly around the end of the long table and looked out the window. "What..." he began, stopped, then went on. "It can't be, but it is! It really is! You may never see another one as long as you live! Mr. Brownell! Mr. Brownell!" he called, as he hurried out of the room and across the hall to the district attorney's office. Then I heard him going down the stairs. I still didn't know what I was seeing, but at least the Judge saw it, too. What was this once-in-alifetime event I was witnessing? "What are those buildings?" I asked Mr. Brownell as he entered the office. ~ "Don't you recognize them?" he questioned. "Yes there's something about them that's familiar." If the men knew, why didn't I? Page 469 470 Mr. Brownell smiled. "How many times have you been to Medora?" EDORA. Of course, and that building was the courthouse. Then I remembered. "But we can't see Medora. It's fifty miles away, with all the Bad Lands buttes between us." "Yes, that's true, but nevertheless you are looking at Medora, and you will probably never see it again from these windows. You are seeing a mirage. It's fading already." Even as he spoke the buildings were becoming hazy, and the tall buttes were dim against the sky. A mirage. Always that word had been connected in my mind with some poor soul lost on the blistering desert who saw an imaginary pool of water ahead, the water he could never reach. But we had been under no great stress that would twist our minds into seeing something that did not exist. We had looked up from our routine work on a quiet afternoon, and there it was before us. Why? The hot spell had broken that morning, but the ground still RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 held the heat and the cool air above it had evidently provided just the right atmospheric condition for reflecting the image of the little town fifty miles distant. Perhaps it was an optical illusion found only on the desert or the ocean or such a level expanse as the Great Plains, but, to us who saw it, it was very real. It was as real as the walls around us or the floor beneath our feet, but it had vanished. Standing by the window, I thought how much of life is like that mirage; our friends' traits that are vivid shortcomings to some, but unnoticed by others; worries so real they almost warp our minds before they disappear; events that are tragedies when they occur, but which in time will nearly fade from memory. How many of our realities are like the optical illusion we had just seen! And what had we really seen? Before us again there were only the familiar little village, grain fields, and green pastures rolling into a low, ragged outline against the blue sky. Ti tied Graham Crackers for Summertime (Desserts Sara Mills ATM season of the year is the time of easy desserts, as far as I am concerned. In summertime the desserts on our table are made with very little manual labor. Often as not they are graham cracker desserts. Favorites. I have culled for you a few of the family GRAHAM CRACKER PIE 3 eggs well beaten % c. Sugar (or less if desired) | Y, c. Chopped walnuts 1 c. Graham cracker crumbs-finely crushed raspberry jam or a tart jelly whipped cream Beat the eggs well. Combine the sugar, crumbs, and walnuts. Add this mixture to the beaten eggs, and pour into a buttered pie pan, glass preferred. Bake twenty to twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven (350°). Cool, spread with raspberry jam, and llotes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year two writers, Elder Leland H. Monson and Sister Leone Openshaw Jacobs, not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, are introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. Elder Leland H. Monson, author of the theology lessons, "Characters and Teachings of the Book of Mormon," is a member of the general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union.. He was born in Preston, Idaho, a son of James Hans and Hannah Iverson Monson. Some of his ancestors, including his greatgreat-grandparents, Benjamin Benson and Cynthia (Vail) Benson, were early members of the Church. Elder Monson, at present head of the English department and chairman of the division of humanities at Weber College, is a graduate of the University of Utah and received his M. A. Degree from the University of Chicago. He has also studied at Stanford. University. His Church po- _ sitions have included Sunday School teacher, Priesthood quorum teacher, ward clerk, and member of Ogden Stake high council.. Married to Ada Button, daughter of Taylor Button and LaPrele Young, Elder Monson is the father. Of four sons and a daughter. His writings include many fine contributions to several national speech magazines and a number of outstanding articles and series of lessons contributed to Church publications. Leone Openshaw Jacobs, author of the visiting teacher lessons for 1951-52, "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth," was born in Kaysville, Page 472 Utah, daughter of Joseph and Elizabeth Raymond Openshaw. She attended the University of Utah and married Joseph Jacobs, now an instructor at West High School, Salt Lake City. They have two children, Geraldine J. Wilkinson, an accomplished violinist, and Lamont Joseph, serving aS a missionary in the Western Canadian Mission. Sister Jacobs served as Relief Society mission president in the Palestine-Syrian Mission, where her husband presided, and from which they returned in 1939. Upon her return from the Holy Land she wrote a series of articles entitled, "To the Land of Our Savior," published in the Church Section of the Deseret News, April 1941. In 1941 she was called to the Ensign Stake Relief Society board where she became second counselor to President Lucina R. Card, and later first counselor to President Alice B. Steinicke. In 1945 she was made a member of the Relief Society general board. | She has served in various civic organizations, as a member of the home division of the Utah Safety Council, Vice President of the Dental Service Society, and is First Vice President elect of the Women's State Legislative Council of Utah. —., For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Jean Ridges Jennings, page 471, July 1948. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, page 471, July 1949. Elder Archibald F. Bennett, page 469, July 1950. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1951-52 Elder Leland H. Monson HIS course of study is designed to give an understanding and appreciation of The Book of Mormon, one of the four standard works of the Church. It is not a study about the book, but a study of the book. 'The Book of Mormon is to be the text. 'The series of lessons will cover a period of five years, allowing time for a careful analysis of the characters of the book and of their teachings. It is to be hoped that at the termination of the course every member of the Relief Society will have read and studied The Book of Mormon in its entirety. The book is primarily a new witness for the divinity of Jesus Christ. Parts relating to the pre-Christian era point forward to the birth and crucifixion of Christ upon the Eastern Hemisphere, and to his appearance to the multitude on the Western Hemisphere. Succeeding chapters recount his mission among the inhabitants and emphasize the degree of influence it exerted upon the lives of the posterity of these people. Taught primarily as a new witness for Christ, the course should strengthen the testimony of every member. Each one who approaches a study of the book with a prayerful heart may realize in full the promise of Moroni: If ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. (Book of Mormon, Moroni 10:4). The first year's course of study will concern itself with an analysis of the structure and purposes of the book; the witnesses to its divine authenticity; the rise and decline of the Jaredite civilization; and the departure of Lehi and his colony from Jerusalem to the land of promise. It will give students of the book an insight into the personalities who made the history of that civilization, and will acquaint them with the teachings of these men. Relief Society members will want to familiarize themselves with the Biblical narrative from the creation to the building of the 'Tower of Babel before beginning the study of 'The Book of Ether. It has been thought advisable to encourage class leaders to base their discussions on material found in The Book of Mormon and outlined in The Relief Society Magazine; to discourage the use of too many outside references; to teach only authoritative material; and to study in context all quoted material in the lessons. The titles and objectives for the course of study for the first year are as follows: Lesson 1. Origin and Analysis of The Book of Mormon Objective: To gain an appreciation of the purpose, the content, and Page 473 474 circumstances of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon through a study of the Title Page, the Brief Analysis, and Origin of The Book of Mormon. Lesson 2. The Witnesses to The Book of Mormon Objective: To establish the authenticity of The Book of Mormon according to the principle of witnesses. Lesson 3. The Migration Objective: To strive to understand and comprehend the kind of faith exemplified by the brother of Jared, and cultivate it in our own lives. Lesson 4. The Migration (Continued ) Objective: To show the purpose and promises of the Lord regarding the land of promise, applying them to our own day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 Lesson 5. Orihah to Coriantumr Objective: From a study of the history of the Jaredite nation under the rule: of kings, to emphasize the necessity of obeying prophetic counsel. Lesson 6. Coriantumr and Ether | Objective: To study the results of disobedience and the necessity of exercising faith. Lesson 7. The Formation and Dispersion of the House of Israel Objective: To gain an understanding of events which transpired in the Old World between the time of the Jaredite migration to the promised land and that of Lehi and his followers. Lesson 8. Lehi, Man of Visions Objective: To show that "the tender mercies of the Lord are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of their faith, to make them mighty even unto the power of deliverance" (I Nephi 1:20). Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 1—Origin and Analysis of The Book of Mormon Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: "Title Page"; "Brief Analysis of The Book of Mormon"; "Origin of The Book of Mormon.'') For Tuesday, October 2, 1951 Objective: To gain an appreciation of the purpose, the content, and circumstances of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon through a study of the Title Page, the Brief Analysis, and Origin of The Book of Mormon. Sso HE Book of Mormon—An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon Upon Plates Taken From The Plates of Nephi Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of Nephi, and also of the Lamanites—Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant LESSON DEPARTMENT of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile—written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of prophecy and of revelation." So reads the initial part of the title page of The Book of Mormon. The entire page reveals the strange source and content of the book. As the title page indicates, 'The Book of Mormon was "written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile." Regarding these Lamanites, the book itself explicitly states that one cause of their degenerate state and ignorance is to be found in the traditions of their fathers, and definitely promises that "the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence in the land" (Alma 9:16). Whiting directly to this remnant of the house of Israel, the modern Lamanites, Mormon says: Know ye that ye are of the house of Israel. Know ye that ye must come unto repentance, or ye cannot be saved. Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ... (Mormon 7:2, 3, 8). It is marvelous, indeed, that a book which was completed over fifteen centuries ago, should carry a message explicitly directed to the American Indian, a remnant of that civilization. The unusual source of the book is indicated by the fact that it was translated from a record which had been abridged by Mormon and Moroni, Nephite scholars of the fourth century after Christ, who lived on the North American continent. A careful study of The Book of Mormon reveals that Ammaron, a 475 prophet laboring among the aboriginal inhabitants of America, and a keeper of the records of these people, became acquainted with a youth named Mormon. Impressed with the intelligence and integrity of this boy, the prophet Ammaron gave to him an important assign-— ment, saying: I perceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe; Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the land Antum, unto a hill which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings concerning this people. And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi all the things that ye have observed concerning this people (The Book of Mormon 1:2-4). Among other records which Mormon found in this hill Shim were two separate sets of plates both of which were called the plates of Nephi. Nephi, the prophet who made both sets, called them the large plates of Nephi and the small plates of Nephi (I Nephi 9:2-4; II Nephi 5:29-33). The small plates contained the religious history of the people from 600 B. C., to about 175 B. C., and the large plates gave a secular and religious history of this same people, duplicating the period of time covered by the small plates and extending beyond that period to about 322 A. D. Undoubtedly, there were many volumes of large plates, for they represented a more or less detailed history kept by different kings and prophets prior to the time of Am- ' JACOB JACOB |'1-4 ENOS Neos 7:27. JAROM JAROM I'1-2 OMNI JAROM ['15 OMNIEI AMARON, OMNI 1'3-4 81-Ol: S €L-82: S IHdIN A 212 a of pS] n= > ras Se|= == |e | mm Ww CHEMISH OMNI 1:8-9 ABINADOM OMNI I:10 eMaLen OMNI 1:12 Hl-Elize Be-Le: l2 TRANSMISSION OF THE BOOK OF MORMON LEH! TO JOSEPH SMITH Large plates undoubtedly formed many volumes It was a cumulative record. Size of drawings is not intended to indicate comparative size of plates. All plates may have been the same size except for thickness. —" d e e 2 3 or" > xm a al 2 = > us m = wn z — m q of |e aa r2Z 2-15|78 —~—m M2VIYizm|R ov EFRiLIBVS ex "RIAs oq Seed aloo a G3 | eal ot re) "}O. - ap) 2 2 Ga i = LfTM LL. € ¢ >. 28 =a me = =m WwW S89 2223 oG2Z5 i debate) Oo"=a LN aa] A " oelslac = ozf 9F/2|O2141 <Q) ze H| nA) S =m BS|@lmy --2 = ZiVe nel "ym iz wn m ve m ] =x ' = Zz o= > GQ aoa mal = oz =< =~ 33 w< oe ZS oV me ud nD ae & ALMA MOSIAH 28:20 HELAMAN A\IMA 37:1:3,2! SHIBLON TM 63: | HELAMAN ALMA 63:10-13 NEPHI LEH! HELAMAN [6:25 NEPHI 3 NEPH! 1:2-3 NEPHI 4 NEPHI 1:14:19 AMOS 4 NEPHI 1:19 AMOS 4 NEPHI [:2! AMMARON,4 NEPHII'47 S31V1d 39NVT S3LV1d 0109 $2 S31 ld SSvUu SALVId TVS WIHS TIH \ 477 maron. The chart on the previous page pictorially indicates how these and other records came into the hands of Ammaron. Obedient to the instructions of Ammaron, Mormon did take from the hill Shim the records which Ammaron had deposited. Upon the large plates of Nephi he engraved a detailed account of what he had observed of the rapidly declining Nephite and Lamanite civilizations. MORMON SEALED PORTION OF THE BOOK | OF MORMON ( t OF NEPHI PLATES OF JOSEPH SMITH r SMALL PLATES X SMALL PLATES PLATES OF MORMON HILL CUMORAH BRASS PLATES 24 GOLD PLATES LARGE PLATES OF NEPHI TO HILL The Plates of Mormon In the declining years of his life, FROM HILL CUMORAH LATER RETURNED THEM WITH PLATES OF MORMON MORONI TOOK GOLD PLATES ae BRASS PLATES LARGE PLATES OF NEPHI about 384 a. P., Mormon became concerned about the records of the past which he had taken from the hill Shim (Mormon 6:6) and made — a separate record upon which he Z gave an abridged history of the enO tire Nephite civilization. In this C abridged history Mormon wrote: 2 N SMALL PLATES OF NEPHI Y PLATES OF MORMON ~~ And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mormon, began to be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and having oe TWENTY FOUR GOLD PLATES MORMON 6:6 8:14 m= HILL CUMORAH been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah all the records which MORMON COMPILED RECORD AND COMBINED IT WITH SMALL PLATES OF NEPHI MORMON ¢ PLATES OF -" ¢ G O L D Pp L A T E S had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord, save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni (Mormon 6:6). OF NEPHI ( BRASS PLATES OF NEPHI This quotation and the following verses make it clear that Mormon ¢ LARGE PLATES \ SMALL PLATES rc MORMON 345AD MORMON 1:2-4 3:17-18 4:23. 8:1-5 made a set of plates upon which he engraved the history of the Nephite nation: 3 NEPHI 5: 10-11 WORDS OF MORMON [:3, 6 But behold there are records which do contain all the proceedings of this people; SMALL PLATES LARGE PLATES BRASS PLATES 24 GOLD PLATES HILL SHIM 320 AD MORMON 1:25. 4 NEPHII4849 478 -and a shorter but true account was given by Nephi. Therefore I have made my record of these things according to the record of Nephi, which was engraven on the plates which were called the plates of Nephi. And behold, I do make the record on plates which I have made with mine own hands (III Nephi 5:9-11). It is this set of plates made by Mormon which were given into the hands of Joseph Smith. Because the history was compiled: largely by Mormon, the translated record has come to be known as The Book of Mormon. After completing his abridgment of the large plates of Nephi, Mormon discovered the small plates of Nephi which contained another history of the Nephites during more than their first four hundred years. This history, written by early prophets from a religious point of view, made a deep impression upon the mind of Mormon. Acting under the inspiration of the Lord, Mormon attached these small plates to the fore part of his own plates by means of three rings. The small plates of Nephi and the plates of Mormon thus became one record. This record Mormon gave to his son Moroni, who completed it and deposited it in the hill Cumorah. Mormon's engravings on his record ended with chapter seven of The Book of Mormon within The Book of Mormon. Moroni added chapters eight and nine to this Book of Mormon. Having discovered among the many records in the hill Cumorah twenty-four gold plates, which had been passed down by the prophets and kings, Moroni read them carefully and recognized that these plates gave the history of the JaredRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 ites, a people who had dwelt on this land of promise long before the Nephites were directed here by the Lord. These Jaredites, under the leadership of Jared and his brother, Mahonri Moriancumer, left 'the tower ob Babel about 2247 B. C. For the land of promise and flourished here. The last person of their nation lived to report the sad story of the decline and fall of his people to the Mulekites, who lived in Zarahemla, and who later merged their civilization with the Nephites. (See Omni 13-19, 20-22.) Working under the inspiration of the Lord, Moroni engraved an - abridgment of the history of the Jaredites, as taken from the twentyfour gold plates, upon the plates made by his father Mormon. This history of the Jaredites is known as The Book of Ether. It follows The Book of Mormon. Moroni completed his father's record with The Book of Moroni, ten chapters explaining his desolate state, discussing — ordinances and principles of the gospel, giving his farewell to the Lamanites, and stating the conditions under which a reader might obtain an individual testimony of the truth of the Book of Mormon. Structure of Our Book of Mormon The plates which Joseph Smith took from the hill Cumorah, the record of Mormon, were written by eleven writers, nine of whom were responsible for the history engraved on the small plates of Nephi, which Mormon had attached to his record. The remainder of the plates C of Mormon were engraved by Mormon and Moroni. LESSON DEPARTMENT Photograph by Otto Done THE HILL CUMORAH The manner in which the record of Mormon was compiled by Mormon and Moroni and the order in which Joseph Smith translated it account for the unusual structure of our present Book of Mormon. An understanding of this structure is a pre-requisite to effective read-— ing. Joseph Smith originally began translating, not from the small plates of Nephi, but from Mormon's abridgment of the large plates of Nephi. Having completed his translation down to the reign of King Benjamin, Joseph entrusted Martin Harris with the manuscript. Martin lost it. (See D. H. C. I, page 21.) Joseph was instructed not to again translate this same history from the large plates of Nephi, but to translate the material recorded on the small plates of Nephi, which material covered the same period of history. These small plates, you will recall, were attached to Mormon's plates by means of three rings. The first 132 pages of The Book of Mormon are a direct translation of the small plates of Nephi, written by the following prophets: Nephi, Jacob, Enos, Jarom, Omni, Ammaron, Chemish, Abinadom, and Amaleki. (The paging in The Book of Mormon has remained the same in all editions printed since 480 1920. 'The pages referred to in these lessons are from _ editions printed since that time.) "The Words of Mormon," pages 132 and 133, serve the purpose of connecting the history taken from the small plates of Nephi with the history taken from the large plates of Nephi. Pages 134 to 459 inclusive are a translation of Mormon's abridgment of the large plates of Nephi, which plates were originally written by prophets and kings from King Mosiah to Ammaron. Pages 460 to 472, or the first seven chapters of The Book of Mormon, within The Book of Mormon give Mormon's personal account of events he had witnessed. Pages 472 to 478, or chapters eight and nine of The Book of Mormon, were written by Mormon's son, Moroni. Pages 478 to 510, The Book of Ether, are a translation of Moroni's abridgment of the twenty-four gold plates, the history of the Jaredite nation. Pages 510 to 522, the end of the book, contain Moroni's instructions. The foregoing analysis of °the structure of 'The Book of Mormon indicates clearly that the chronological or time order of events has not been followed. If the time order had been adhered to The Book of Ether would be the first book in The Book of Mormon, for it gives the history of the Jaredites who lived upon this hemisphere before the Nephites. Recognizing the fact that the Jaredites did come to America before the Nephites, we shall first study the history of the descendants RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 of Jared, his brother, Mahonri Moriancumer; and their colony, which left the Tower. Of Babel about 2247 B. C., and were guided by the hand of the Lord to the promised land. Suggested Readings Rosperts, BricHam H.: New Witnesses for God, II, pp. 134-138, Deseret News, 1920. Monson, LELAND H.: Life in Ancient America, pp. 11-13, Deseret Sunday School Union, 1946. Questions for Discussion 1. To whom was The Book of Mormon written? 2. Why. Does a structural analysis of The Book of Mormon make it easier to read? 3. Why do we call Mormon a. Scholar? 4. What plates did Mormon and Moroni use in the preparation of what is now called The Book of Mormon? Note: The following quotation will be of interest to Relief Society members: When residing in Kirtland, Elder Reynolds Cahoon had a son born to him. One day when President Joseph Smith was passing his door, he called the Prophet in and asked him to bless and name the baby. Joseph did so and gave the boy the name of Mahonri Moriancumer. When he had finished the blessing he laid the child on the bed and turning to Elder Cahoon he said, "The name I have given your son is the name of the brother of Jared; the Lord has just shown (or revealed) the name." Elder William Cahoon, who was standing near, heard the Prophet make this statement to his father; and this was the first time the name of the brother of Jared was known in the Church in this dispensation (The Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 27, May 1892, page 282). (siting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1951-52 Leone O. Jacobs. "ROOK of Mormon Gems of Truth" is the title of a new series of Visiting Teacher Messages for the year 1951-52. As the theology course is a study of the Book of Mormon, we feel it will be very profitable and that increased spirituality will result if the Visiting Teacher Messages are also centered around this volume of scripture. With this in mind we have selected choice quotations from the Book of Mormon to be used as messages to the homes of Latter-day Saints. As we analyze these quotations they become clearer and take on added meaning and _ significance. They also have definite, practical application in our lives. 'The aim of these messages is that our Latterday Saint families may be inspired to more fully live up to the instruction and counsel contained therein. Visiting teachers have an excellent opportunity of discussing these topics informally in the homes with the sisters of the Church; and when there is an exchange of ideas under such conditions, much of lasting value 'may be gained. The eight lesson titles and objectives for 1951-52 are as follows: Lesson 1. "And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Objective: To show that service to the Lord and service to our fellow men are synonymous. Lesson 2. "Remember that my Spirit will not always strive with man" (Ether 2:15). Objective: To point out that only by living the Lord's commandments can we be sure of the presence of the spirit. Lesson 3. "Feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do" (II Nephi 32:3). Objective: To emphasize that in the words of our Savior we have the perfect pattern of life. Lesson 4. "Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your afflictions (Jacob 3:1). Objective: To remind us that God is ever willing to comfort us in trial. Lesson 5. "There is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord; and that which is evil cometh from the devil" (Omni 25). Objective: To show that it is not just to hold God accountable for the wicked state of the world. Lesson 6. "Now it is better that a man should be judged of God than of man, for the judgments of God are always just, but the judgments Page 48] 482 of man are not always just' (Mosiah 29:12). Objective: To show that we should refrain from judging each other. Lesson 7. "I have none other object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls" (II Nephi 2:30). Objective: To help us appreciate the fact that there are many people who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 are interested in our everlasting welfare. Lesson 8. "He that will not believe my words will not believe me—that I am" (Ether 4:12). Objective: To show that when one truly accepts Jesus Christ, he accepts his words as well. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 1—''And Behold, I Tell You These Things 'That Ye May Learn Wisdom; That Ye May Learn That When Ye Are in the Service of Your Fellow Beings Ye Are Only in the Service of Your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 2, 1951 Objective: To show that service to the Lord and service to our fellow men are synonymous. OFT IMES we unconsciously make a distinction between serving the Lord and serving our fellow men, when, in reality, they are one and the same. We think of attending our meetings, paying tithing, saying our prayers, and fulfilling assignments in Church positions as belonging to the service of the Lord, while, on the other hand, tending the baby of a tired mother, encouraging a despondent widow, taking some delicacy to an invalid across the street, appear to us as simply being a good neighbor. We mistakenly feel that service to the Lord is in a different category, that it is on a loftier plane, being removed from our contacts with mere human beings in the mundane affairs of daily living. Why cannot we see that service rendered to our neighbors and associates is-of the selfsame fabric as service to God? He has told us this is so. We might make a comparison. As parents we know our feelings when someone befriends our child who is in difficulty. We feel as grateful as though he had befriended us, do we not? Perhaps even more grateful. If some kind friend gives encouragement, inspiration, or wise counsel to our child, it means the same to us, his parents, as though we had been the recipients of that much-needed assistance. So it is with our Heavenly Father. When one of us befriends another of his children, it is the same as though we rendered that service unto him. The more we do to bring joy and righteousness into the lives of his children, our brothers and sisters, the more we lift each other up the ladder toward per- LESSON DEPARTMENT fection—the more we are serving our Maker. Henry Van Dyke, in The Other Wise Man, aptly illustrates this great truth. According to the story, the "other wise man" used his three precious jewels, intended as gifts for the Messiah, to minister to the needs of a sick stranger, to save a baby boy from certain death, and to free a young woman from the bondage of debt. "I have spent for man that which was meant for God," Artaban said sadly. He searched thirty-three years for his King and finally neared Golgotha as Christ was hanging on the cross. Buildings were shaken from their foundations by the force of the en- 483 suing earthquake, and Artaban was struck down by a piece of falling tile. As he lay dying his lips moved as if answering someone. 'Not so, my Lord. For when saw I thee an hungered and fed thee? Or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw | thee a stranger and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? When saw I thee sick or in prison, and came unto thee? Three and thirty years have I looked for thee; but I have never seen thy face, nor ministered to thee, my King." 'Then we are told, he ceased speaking, and the sweet voice came again, "Verily I say unto thee, Inasmuch as thou hast done it unto one of the least of these thy brethren, thou hast done it unto me." Work ITleeting— Sewing THE Art OF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting ) Preview of Lessons for 1951-52 Jean Ridges Jennings (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) WE are living in a time of rising costs and economic uncertainties when no one knows what tomorrow may bring in the way of shortages and burdensome expenses. It is a part of good citizenship as well as sound economy to take care of the things we have and waste nothing. This means that mending, more than ever, is an important phase of homemaking. It is one of the home arts to be studied and learned with exactness and skill. What better project can women undertake than to master a craft that will help them and their families to prolong the use of clothing and household linens? The lessons for optional use by wards and branches at work meetings for 1951-52 will attempt to outline and explain some of the fundamental mending processes. It is impossible to discuss all of the details of this project. It is hoped, however, that everyone can get the feeling and the desire for precise and artful handling of mending problems. All should strive to eliminate carelessness and a hap- 484 hazard way of doing this very important task. One of the best ways to learn to do something is actually to see how it is done. If the work meeting leader or the chairman in charge of this special phase of the work meeting program arranges to have demonstration materials of well-done patches and darns in various kinds of clothing and household articles to illustrate the different lessons, the sisters will learn easier and faster. The sisters may be encouraged to bring their mending problems to meeting so that they can be shown the best way to repair their articles. Not only will they learn from doing their own mending, but they will also learn from observing what others are doing. A supply of scraps of various types of fabrics on which the sisters may practice would also be helpful. There are great possibilities for salvaging articles that might seem to be hopelessly worn. 'There is a world of opportunity to work up enthusiasm for and pride in the development of skill in mending. Women will grow to see that some hitherto tedious tasks can be really enjoyable because of the very nature of the accomplishment. It is recommended that advance notice be given of the type of mending to be taken up at the following work meeting so that the sisters can bring that type of mending to the class. The text, which we have formerly recommended, The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, may be used for reference material and illustrations (pp. 213- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 231). Wards which do not already own a copy may purchase one at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Also splendid material on this and other related subjects can be found in Government bulletins. 'They may be obtained by writing to the U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. The course, to continue throughout the year, will include eight lessons, as follows: Lesson 1. Introductory A discussion of plans and equipment for guidance in the year's work. Lesson 2. Patching An outline and discussion on the most useful types of patches and their uses. Lesson 3. Strengthening ReadyMades A group of suggestions on what to do to increase the wearing-quality value of ready-made clothes. Lesson 4. Knitted Goods This lesson outlines ways and means of putting new life in aging knitted clothing. Lesson 5. Mending Woolens Suggestions on how women may inconspicuously mend, patch, and darn woolens. Lesson 6. Mending Men's Suits Some of the more common problems that arise in taking care of men's suits, and their solutions. Lesson 7. Sleeves, Underarm Patches, and Mending Sheers Some of the more common problems that appear in the maintenance of women's clothes and their solutions. Lesson 8. Linens and Household Articles Ways and means of salvaging worn and torn household linens and supplies. WVork ITleeting—Sewi ng 'THE ArT OF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Introductory Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 9, 1951 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot. ) O single phase of the over-all home-sewing plan is more important than mending. If clothes and household furnishings are to last and give maximum service, they must be cared for with vigilance until they are discarded. The old saying, "'A stitch in time,' should go a step further, saying that it may save the life of the garment, not just nine stitches. Every woman who has the responsibility of homemaking would do well to learn how to care for and conserve clothing and home furnishings. If things are to last with long, hard use, a knowledge of approved mending processes is. A It is a wise homemaker who budgets her time for household tasks so as to allow a definite time for mending.. It should not be left to chance, nor should it always be put off until tomorrow. Every housewife should provide a definite place for articles needing mending. 'This might be a drawer, basket, or shelf where articles won't cause confusion and disorder. Here they may be neatly folded to await the mending day. Don't ever put unmended clothing away to be worn again. One of the most important aids to good mending practice is good and adequate equipment. A mending kit is a big help. This may be a basket, box, or large drawer —any place where mending supplies can be kept together. With materials all collected, it is easy to pick up odd bits of mending in spare time without having to hunt for equipment each time. | Have on hand at all times as regular mending equipment such supplies as fine and coarse needles, different sizes and colors of thread, assorted colors of darning cotton, pins, buttons, snaps, hooks and eyes, (light and dark), tape, bits of net, scraps of patching material for everyday things, a stocking darner, ruler or tape measure, and any other mending supplies you use often. Whenever a garment is made at home, the leftover pieces of cloth should be neatly rolled into a bundle and saved until the article is discarded. One never knows when a piece of the fabric may be needed for patching or alteration. If a ready-made garment is altered and any of the cloth cut off, save the pieces for future use. Provide a bag or box for storing these scraps. Keep an attractive portable sewing bag or box convenient to the Page 485 486 mending area. This can be used _for carrying a few pieces of hand mending to the sewing circle or to the neighbors when you go for a sociable chat; and you will, of course, take it to the Relief Society work meeting mending class. Or you may simply want to have it handy in the living room when the family gathers around the fire of an evening to listen to its favorite RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 radio program or talk over the day's events. You will be surprised how much can be accomplished by utilizing the odd moments. Monotonous tasks seem easier when they are done with a group. Let's do this mending job as efficiently as possible, but at the same time keep it pleasant. SUitenaasee Nive Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1951-52 Elder Briant S. Jacobs S we begin our third year of exploration in the realm of English literature, the objective of our course, and therefore of every lesson we present, should be planted firmly in our minds and hearts. During the many hours of work and reward we shall spend together, the desire "to earn and share that high pleasure which only literature and a sense of the past can give" should' dominate every phase of literary activity, from planning, through preparing, to actual lesson presentation. Such a living attitude will aid in solving your own peculiar problems, in sharpening your ability to help others see and understand, and in giving to your lesson warmth and vitality. 'Then, indeed, the objective shall be enriched in your own eyes; then, indeed, you will continue to know the thrill of this work which, effectively performed, is its own substantial reward. The general area of our present study might be entitled, "The Beginnings of Romanticism." The stage remains the same as in the past, but the theater is under new management and combines new scenery, a different set of actors, and previously unused story material into an expression of ideas and beliefs held by a new age of Englishmen. During this Romantic period English literature reached one of its two highest pinnacles (the other being the Elizabethan Era). The modern reader finds himself continually attracted to the great writers of this period. It shall be our purpose to learn of these men and their works, as well as to define the principles of romanticism which they held in common. It is most difficult to say just what the function of a lesson should be.. But let us hope that these lessons serve as a flame within your mind, and that if you absorb whatever warmth it may have, and it causes new relationships, ideas, and realities to grow within you to a constant light—then these printed lessons will more than have fulfilled their function. Whatever LESSON DEPARTMENT lesson this flame may have helped you create, finally, should be a memorable one, both for yourself and for those with whom it is shared. Our text is Woods, Watt, Anderson, The Literature of England, volume two (volume one was completed with last year's course). Published by Scott, Foresman and Company, this book is available at the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. The titles for the eight lessons follow: 487 Lesson 17. Introduction to Romanttcism. Lesson 18. Two Pre-Romantic Poets: James Thomson and William Collins. Lesson 19. T'wo Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper. Lesson 20. Robert Burns. Lesson 21. William Blake. Lesson 22. Two Romantic Essayists: Lamb and Hazlitt. Lesson 23. William Wordsworth. Lesson 24. William Wordsworth (Concluded). Ose hie Literature of England Lesson 17—Introduction to Romanticism Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 16, 1951 Objective: To show that Romanticism placed emphasis on human emotions, sympathetic understanding of common people, desire for social justice, and on the romantic flavor of the past. T was during the vigorous FElizabethan Age that Ben Jonson said, "Language best shows a man; speak that I may see you." If a man might thus be judged accurately by the words he uses, so might a people. And the words most memorable in the English tradition were spoken and written during the two golden periods of her history: the Elizabethan Age, and the period preceding, and during the reign of Queen Victoria. It is not by chance that England's greatest literary productivity occurred while the English nation itself was expanding with dizzying power and eloquence; neither is it by chance that the literature of these periods reveals in each instance a magnificent triumph of the romantic spirit. — gotten. The overlapping of period into period is especially marked at the opening of the nineteenth century. The great events of this time were foreshadowed by the — gradual changes. In the last thirty years of the period just passed. England had learned something from the American Revolution which proved a great victory for the rights of man in England, as well as in the American colonies. The English conscience was fired even more vigorously by the French Revolution of 1789, with its slogan of "Liberty Equality, and Fraternity," which was never again to be entirely forThe seeds of the great liberating reforms in nineteenth century England were sown in the English commoner's mind by such 488 epic blows struck in the cause of freedom. ' During most of the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and the early eighteenth centuries, life in rural Britain had followed the same quiet pattern. Families were grouped together in small hamlets; small gardens, a few animals, and domestic industries fulfilled their "own needs. For example, in the clothmaking industry the looms were in the homes and the whole family helped with the weaving. In the pottery districts each family had its potter's wheel and everyone in the family could use it. Suddenly in a period of about sixty years, everything was changed. Factories were established and industry moved out of the home; hamlets became cities. 'The immediate causes of such an abrupt change were a series of inventions which made large-scale production possible. 'The fly shuttle, the spinning jenny, the power loom and, most of all, the use of steam for power, made possible the great industries of England, and_ revolutionized transportation both on land and sea. Rapidly England became the commercial and industrial leader of the world. Such a change in a nation's liying habits could not take place without much individual hardship and opposition. England was suffering its Industrial Revolution, which for almost a century was a period of turmoil and tragedy for the laboring class. It had seemed natural that women and children go into the mills, since they had helped with the work at home. However, the conditions of factory taken. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 work were utterly different; and the unhappiness which followed the change from home work to factory work, from semi-rural to city-slum existence, was first thought to be a necessary accompaniment of the machine age. Then a few souls began to ask questions and protest. Some of the remonstrance was led by literary men. Poets, in a nostalgic mood, described the simple joys that had been a part of country living. Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard," Goldsmith's "The Deserted Village," and Burns' "The Cotter's Saturday Night" are representative. As the nineteenth century opened, a more realistic attitude was The changes had come to stay, but the realization was growing that the great production of factories, mills, and mines did not necessarily mean that men, women, and children must be slaves to the machines and their owners. Life in cities did not have to be poor, unhealthy, and unhappy. Proper standards to govern working conditions could and must be adopted. Practical efforts for reform enlightened this era. History records changes; literature makes them real to us. Many excellent novels, poems, and _ essays bring us into the lives and hearts of people living during those momentous changes. The reader shares the poverty and toil of the workers, and their terror and rebellion at events., Religion also had undergone an eclipsing restraint placed upon it during the neo-classical age by the enthronement of intellect and rea- LESSON DEPARTMENT son.. It was now inevitable that a wave of religious enthusiasm should follow. In the rising tide of evangelistic Methodism led by the emotional preachings of the Wesley brothers and George Whitefield, the average Englishman enjoyed a freedom he had never before known. The most apparent reaction in literature to these great changes was a movement toward romanticism which is the opposite swing of the pendulum from classicism. 'The great romantics of English poetry were contemporaneous with the years of the Industrial Revolution, from about 1770 to 1835. 'Those were the years that brought forth the poems of Burns and Blake, of Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats—all of them sympathetically concerned with human experiences. But what is romanticism? An attempt at defining it must be at least as difficult as an attempted definition of love, freedom, idealism, or democracy, all of which, incidentally, are products of a romantic philosophy. Our problem is not to attempt grappling with a familiar but undefined force such as electricity, but to select from innumerable sincere but partial definitions of romanticism those which most accurately represent basic beliefs in the romantic school or movement. Even though the hundreds of existing definitions cannot be boiled down into one easy, precise phrase, the term romanticism is still so important that it must be discussed. Perhaps our understanding can be broadened most quickly and effectively by illustrating important 489 points of romanticism as they occur about us today. If we cannot now meet the great English romantics in the flesh, at least we can identify phases of romanticism in our contemporary world which, to a surprising extent, has been shaped by romantic principles. Suppose we select as the most promising subject for our investigation that person living in the present world whom you know most intimately: namely, you. Wouldn't you like to know if you are a romanticist? How, if at all, romanticism influences your day-to-day existence? But more related to our immediate purpose, you should realize that through this self-examination you are also learning a great reality of the past, for as someone has wisely said, "Ihe only true history is contemporary history." Do you ever long for "the good old days"? Have you ever collected letters, diaries, books, or other things about you in an effort to recreate the glorious past, all as a comforting contrast to the somewhat forsaken present? Do you ever want to "get away from it all'? Do you often travel, either through time or distance, to "faraway places" primarily to forsake present reality? Do you feel within your breast a passionate love for the great out-of-doors as you marvel at a sunset, or the perfection of one tiny bloom? If, in your living garden, or surrounded by majestic nature, you feel a nearness to God as nature speaks his message directly to you--then you are a romanticist. Or do you love to be in love with love? Do you dream about young 490 love rather. Than about wisdom and maturity? Do you enjoy rather anticipating an occasional "right good cry'? At Halloween have you loved to sit in the dark listening to ghost stories while passing about peeled grapes and gloves filled with wet sand? Do you read detective stories and thrillers, and listen to murder mysteries on the radio? Are you quickened by tragedy and suffering, and often awed by the certainty and nearness of death? If sO, you are a romanticist. Are you genuinely concerned for the lot of the common man? Do you resent the suffocating encroachment of economic necessity, society, or the state, upon your individuality? Do you rebel at seeing "man's inhumanity to man"? Do you believe that man by his very nature is born to be free, and that any narrowing of this greatest of all rights is a crime against God and humanity? Do you believe that ideals rather than things are most real? For you, are truth and beauty one, and a high reality? Are the almost unattainable ideals of this life not worth living for if they are not worth dying for? The beliefs of romanticism are large indeed. This list of questions represents some of the main principles of what has come to be known as romanticism; such a list probably omits almost as much as it contains. But it does possess those denominators which romanticism is commonly said to contain, namely, emotion, individuality, and idealism. The definition of romanticism in our text is well done and deserves quoting: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 There are two important ways of looking at life. One way is to be guided by reason and a sense of fact; this is the path which leads in art and literature to the rational and the realistic. Such a path the neo-classicist preferred to follow. The other way of looking at life is in terms of the emotions and the imagination; this is the road to what in literature and art is called the romantic. Obviously, the romantic is inimical [opposed] to the severely rational; it has warmth where the rational has not; it is not restrained by bare fact; it has largeness and sweep and passion, and is as necessary a part of a well-rounded human being's experience as is the purely rational; but it is of the heart rather than of the head (text, page 1, pp. 1-31, particularly pp. 1-5 and 29-31, give discussion and background). It should be pointed out that, just as in the world about us individuals are rarely if ever all bad or all good, so in the literary world authors rarely have been purely classical or purely romantic. It is just about as unfair, and as foolish, to accuse the neo-classical writers of writing only with their intellects as it is to believe that romanticism is_ only imagination and emotion. Throughout all time man has maintained sanity and balance by using both his heart and his head, and whenever an historical age has allowed either the mind or heart to absorb entirely the function of the other, an extreme unbalancing results. Of the two different approaches we should also realize that for the English people the most natural attitude toward life and mankind has been the romantic. After the Puritan and neo-classical interludes extending for almost 150 years, the return of English beliefs and literature to romanticism was a return to a more normal way of belief and action. % LESSON DEPARTMENT Nor did neo-classicism succumb and romanticism triumph overnight, or even in a decade. James Thomson's "The Seasons" first appeared in 1726, almost a hundred years before the full romantic triumph. Throughout the eighteenth century so many authors departed from the — neo-classical models that they have been grouped together as the preromantic movement. While their philosophy still might have been largely conventional, some principle or practice in their writings contributed to the growing romantic movement. For example, Oliver Goldsmith's idyllic novel, The Vicar of Wakefield is romantic in its praise of the common man and the simple virtues. His "The Deserted Village" is intensely romantic in its opposition to the effects of the Industrial Revolution upon rural life and in its melancholic lament for the happy days gone by; yet the poem is written in heroic couplets, the favorite means of expression of the neo-classicist. And Goldsmith published these two works about thirty and forty years after 'Thomson's "The Seasons." 'Thus the wide overlapping of the two movements is evident. The romantic writers were never formally organized as a group of companion spirits. Indeed _ this would have been a most absurd impossibility, so great and so complete were personal, social, political, and even literary differences among them. While a few of them were intimate for a time, others were solitary men: sometimes they never 491] knew each other at all. Many expressed dislike, and even contempt for another's writings. Yet the larger convictions which they shared despite such differences brought them together, far closer, it is true, in the eyes of those of us who care to look back, than ever they appeared to themselves. Thus it was that, during this period, the English nation as a whole achieved freedoms and advancements for the individual previously unknown. But accompanying such advantages came the moral, social, and economic problems which have characterized the modern age for the past 150 years. Partly in a democratic spirit of new-found freedom, partly as a refuge from confusion, the romantic literary man, writing the feeling and images which were echoed in the hearts of the people, explored himself, beauty, and nature, the medieval past, the exotic or melancholy present, the ideal future—all in glowing words which quickened the pulse and tantalized the senses and fed the loftiest hopes. At last the English romantic impulse had come into its own. Questions for Discussion 1, Why is romanticism difficult to define? 2. How rapidly did romanticism replace the ideas and literary fashions of the previous neo-classical age? 3. Can the English tradition be described fairly as romantic? 4. What has been the relationship between democracy and romanticism? What, if any, is the present relationship? ~ Social Science—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Preview of Lessons for 1951-52 Elder Archibald F. Bennett HE seven lessons for this year are a continuation of the text, The Progress of Man by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. They consist of chapters 12 to 24 inclusive. In these perilous times, with the threat of war ever present, traditional standards of morals and government are being discarded. 'There are concerted movements in progress for the possession of men's minds. As never before we need an unerring guide to proper government. This is to be found in our text which is an outline history of man interpreted in the light of modern revelation. This year's lessons will follow through the period of the apostasy when the world was deprived of the divine authority of the Priesthood, and men were shackled to Satan's fetters. Ignorance flourished like a rank weed in the darkness. Then came the upward striving of select and heroic souls towards. The light. With the revival of learning, a virtual rebirth came to mankind in Europe. Religious reform fol- _ lowed closely this increase of learning. Men dared to cry out for freedom of worship; endured and fought to obtain it. Contemporaneously with greater enlightenment and liberty of conscience, came increased political freedom. The discovery of America was a deciding factor in the nourishing of the principles of freedom. Let us never forget that "Nothing in the great world which concerns the well-being of man takes place by accident, but is brought forward by divine will, precisely at. The moment most suitable to our condition" (George Bohn, text, page 198). We present here the seven lesson titles and objectives: PART II. FROM DARKNESS INTO DAWN Lesson 8. Apostasy and Degeneration, text, chapters 13; 14; 15. 'Objective: To show that as the result of apostasy the Church and the Priesthood were taken from the earth; knowledge declined, false ideas held sway, and ignorance flourished throughout the Dark Ages. Lesson 9. The Revival of Learning, text, chapters 16 and 17. Objective: To depict the stages by which the minds of men, awakened Page 492 by the Spirit of the Lord, began to be freed from the chains that enslaved them. 'The Renaissance was the dawning of that day. Lesson 10. The Religious Reformation, text, chapters 18 and 19. Objective: To delineate how, from the depths of ignorance and superstition, courageous reformers led the peoples of Europe to partial religious liberty, and individual freedom of thought and action. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 11. The Struggle for Independence, text, chapter 12, pp. 152- 156; chapter 20. Objective: To show that there have always been two main theories of government in the world, one based upon righteousness, the other upon force. 'To realize from past history the price of liberty, that thereby, we may more fully appreciate our sacred heritage. Lesson 12. New Races in America, text, chapters 21 and 22. Objective: To show that the choice land of America was discovered through the will of the Lord. That he led chosen men from various nations to form a new nation where, 493 provided the people lived righteously, liberty and truth could flourish. Lesson 13. Groping Toward Liberty of Conscience, text, chapter 23. Objective: To relate how the new inhabitants of America, escaping from old-world tyranny, gradually overcame religious intolerance among themselves, so that liberty of conscience could take firm root in the new soil. Lesson 14. The American Revolution, text, chapter 24. Objective: To give underlying reasons for the American colonists' breaking away from the mother country; and to show that they were aided by the power of God in validating their Declaration of Independence. Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 8—Apostasy and Degeneration Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 13; 14; 15.) For Tuesday, October 23, 1951 Objective: To show that as the result of apostasy the Church and the Priesthood were taken from the earth, knowledge declined, false ideas held sway, and ignorance flourished throughout the Dark Ages. The Beginning of the Apostasy T was well understood in the days of the apostles that there was to come a "falling away" from gospel truth, and that spiritual darkness would be enthroned over all the earth. (See Isaiah 24:5-7; Amos 8:11, 12; Matthew 24:4, 5, 23, 24; 2 Timothy 4:3, 4; 2 Peter 2:1-3.) John the Revelator saw this great apostasy, and the Church driven into the wilderness, in other words, taken from among men (Rey. 12). The history of the first fifteen hundred years after the birth of Christ completely fulfills this prophetic vision. 'The power of the Priesthood was taken from among men; and after the Church, with its authority and gifts, disappeared from the earth, Satan continued his war upon all who had faith and sought the testimony of Jesus. So successful did Lucifer become that his dominion extended over all the Christian world, and he endeavored to have 494 every creature worship according to the manner which he prescribed. He sought to take away free agency, the inherent gift of God to every soul, and to have men shackled to the plan which Satan had proposed in the heavens at the rebellion. The departure from the gospel commenced even in the days of the apostles. In the days of Peter and Paul it was impossible for these inspired leaders to reach the scattered branches of the Church except through infrequent visits and by letters which could be sent only occasionally. 'These several branches were left largely to themselves without the constant and general supervision which was so essential to their success and unity. Epistles, such as were sent out by Paul, would impress the members in the branches for a little season, and then would be forgotten in the general course of things. The personal contacts which were so vital then, and are vital today, could not be given. 'The result was that in the Primitive Church of Christ false doctrines and false teachers inevitably crept in. In this way branches of the Church drifted away and changed the fundamental principles established by the Savior and his apostles. When another generation came on the scene, the dangers were multiplied. Effects of Early Christian Persecutions From the day of the crucifixion until the beginning of the fourth century persecution followed the saints. 'There were times of comparative peace, but Satan in _his anger continued his labors of deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 struction. It was not long after the day of Pentecost that James, the son of Zebedee, was put to death. The activities of the Jews resulted in driving many of the disciples out of Palestine. However, the greatest persecutions came from the Romans. The strange thing about these persecutions is the fact that Rome had always been tolerant and unmindful of the religious beliefs of all nations. While toleration was granted to all others, there was no mercy for Christians. The first persecution, commencing in A. D. 64, took place under Nero. It was during this persecution that Peter and Paul suffered martyrdom. These continued persecutions, some of which were given with exterminating edicts against all Christians no matter where they were found, brought thousands of the saints to martyrdom. Many thousands renounced the faith to save their lives. Such methods, to bring to an end the work established by our Lord, proved to be unavailing so far as destroying the Church was concerned. That they weakened it, there can be no doubt, for many of the: leading characters were removed by death. But Satan discovered that there were other weapons far more effective than the sword, and fire, and burning at the stake. Gospel Ordinances Changed In the year 306 Constantine came to power in Rome. From that time on persecution ceased, and Christianity became a popular religion. In becoming popular the Church lost its vitality and became clothed in the vestments of the pagan world. 'The simplicity of the gospel was lost in the maze and fog LESSON DEPARTMENT of mystic rites and ceremonies to the bewilderment of the people. With the power of the Roman government behind it, Christianity became the dominant religion of Europe. In the course of time the local ecclesiastical government in Rome claimed pre-eminence and the right to direct in the affairs of all other branches of the Church. The authority in Rome assumed greater and greater power until the claim was made that the bishop of Rome was, and had been since the death of Peter, the successor to the chief apostle in the government of the Church. The Church established by our Lord and his apostles was a simple organization free from all pomp, mystery, and ostentation. Its members were humble and met on a common plane. 'The priest was no better than the member, although he was respected in his calling. All were one in their simplicity and brotherly relationships. 'The Church was free from pride and class distinction. All of this was rudely changed after the death of the apostles. Offices never dreamed of in the true Church were created. Ceremonies foreign to the gospel were added. Ordinances instituted for the salvation of men were discarded or changed. By the multi plicity of changes in ordinances, principles, and Church government, the Church of Jesus Christ ceased — to exist on the earth. Satan had accomplished far more effectively, in times of peace, what he failed to do by persecution. When men turn from the power of the Priesthood and refuse to accept the ordinances of the gospel, darkness takes hold 495 of their minds and drives out the light of truth. Mankind lost the true knowledge of God and the power by which that knowledge is manifest. 'There came a decline in the spiritual gifts. The ordinance of baptism was wickedly changed; sprinkling and pouring were substituted for the burial in the water in similitude of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The declaration was made that the bread and wine became by transubstantiation the actual body and blood of Christ. Likewise other grave and fatal changes were made in the ordinances and doctrines of the Church. The Decline of Knowledge There came also a decline in art, science, literature, and all things uplifting and beneficial to the mortal life. Only a select few were granted the privilege of an education. Few outside the clergy were educated enough to read and write. For this reason the priests became the lawyers, diplomats, instructors, dictators to kings, and controllers of affairs of state. Moreover, the temporal, social, and spiritual affairs of the people were controlled by the priests. All learned men_ talked and wrote in Latin, which the common people did not understand; nor was it intended that they should understand. The scriptures were said to be the exclusive property of the priests or clergy, and their use among the laity was frowned upon. No part of the scriptures was to be read in public or in private by those not of the clergy. Neither was any part or fragment of the scriptures to be in the possession of the common peo- 496 ple on pain of death. _ Discussion of the word of God was forbidden in the home and prayersfor the people were prescribed by the clergy. Thus the tights and freedom of the people were taken away. The Dark Ages It is generally understood that the Dark Ages commenced with the fall of Rome and continued during the greater part of the next thousand years. Professor Myers, in his History of the Middle Ages, has said: Long before the fall of Rome there was a very observable decline of the Latin intellect. Science, literature, philosophy —the entire intellectual as well as political side of Roman civilization—showed evidence of weakness and decay. Then came the inrush of the barbarians, and the countries that had been brought under the influence of Latin culture and refinement sank back into almost primitive ignorance and rudeness. 'The lowest point of the depression was touched probably in the seventh century. Hallam calls that the nadir of the human mind in Europe. Some modern historians have tried to account for that decline in _ the fact that the barbarian hosts swept over Europe and subdued Rome. They have said that these barbarians were not sufficiently developed in intellect in those times to grasp the high culture and civilization which had existed during the days of the glory of Greece and Rome. Nothing could be farther from the truth. The reason for this age of extreme darkness was the fact of apostasy and departure from the light of truth—a turning from the simple and enlightening principles of the gospel. Neither should we lose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 sight of the fact that, in that period, the learning which had been freely granted to peoples in other times, including the privilege to worship, read, and write, had been denied the people. Their form of worship was made incomprehensible, and they were so overawed by the pomp and mysticism introduced by the clergy as to be held in abject ignorance and superstition. The condition of mental and spiritual stupor was not due to a lack of mental capacity, but to the power which Satan exercised over the people. As the Lord said to the Nephites (Book of Mormon, 3 Nephi g:12) after the great hour of destruction which came to them, so we may say in truth of the people of these times: Satan laughed, and his angels rejoiced because of the power which they had obtained over the fair sons and daughters of the people, through their transgression of the sacred laws of divine will. Which laws had been proclaimed by the Son of God to lift the human family to a higher plane through the blessings of the gospel. Fortunately there was to come the dawn of a better day. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Show that as a result of the apostasy men declined in morals, in knowledge, | and in mental power. 2. Show that persecution alone could not destroy the Church. What was an even more effective weapon? 3. Name some of the changes in Church government, doctrine, and ritual, which followed the apostasy from the early Christian faith. 4. What advantages do we have today in the Church over the early Christians in withstanding the forces of apostasy? LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. Discuss the fact that "While toleration was granted to all others, there was no mercy for Christians." 6. Account for the fact that Satan gained so much influence and power over the minds of the early Christians. Had they continued in righteous living would they have been led astray? 7. Show through reference to the following words that the experiences of the past, if rightly interpreted, will guide -us in a solution of our present-day problems. President George Albert Smith penned these words of wisdom and guidance: "We are fortunate in having our freedom. The mind of man is _ affected by good as well as by evil influences, and there are in the world those two powers that have been active from the beginning. Knowing that we may be directed by proper influences as members of this great Church and as citizens of this wonderful government, surely we shall not depart from the advice and 497 counsel of our Heavenly Father to follow those teachings that will lead us to destruction.... I hope and pray that the Lord may help us that we may be worthy of our birthright, that we may live such pure and holy lives that the adversary will have no power to tempt us or to direct us into evil paths, and that we may listen to the whisperings of that still small voice, to which all men are entitled, and mow that voice when it shall come to us, for it will point us the way of peace and happiness and eternal life' (Improvement Era, July 1949, pp. 429, 477). Recommended Reference on the Apostasy Crark, J. REuBEN, Jr.: On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, chapters 9; 10; 11; 13. TALMAGE, JAMES E.: The Great Apostasy. Mlusic— Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Preview of Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Florence Jepperson Madsen HE lessons for the coming year's study in the music department of union meetings are a continuation of last year's lessons, with emphasis on the importance, appreciation, and use of music in the Church and fostering music in the home. Lesson 9. "Conducting, Accompanying, and Program Planning." Objective: To increase efficiency in conducting, accompanying, correlating music with the educational lessons, and in planning the year's music program. ~ Lesson 10. "Efficiency in Teaching and Practicing Hymns and Anthems." Objective: To make song rehearsals more effective and successful through careful planning. Lesson.11. "Increased Proficiency in Conducting, Accompanying, and Hymn Singing." Objective: To improve hymn singing through better conducting and accompanying. Lesson 12. Review of the 4/4 Baton Pattern, Part-Singing, The Resourceful Accompanist, Song Matenial Objective: To further establish the Four-four (4/4) baton pattern, to give the congregation the experience of occasionally singing in parts; to help the accompanist realize her possibilities and responsibilities; to add new songs to the repertoire. 498 Lesson 13. Music Appreciation Programs for Relief Society and the Home. Objective: To appreciate and use music more widely and significantly in Relief Society and the home. Lesson 14. Conducting with the Sixeight (6/8) Baton Pattern, Vocal Helps for Singing Mothers. Objective: To learn to conduct with the 6/8 baton pattern. To improve the quality of group singing. Lesson 15. Review the 6/8 Baton Pattern; Style and Interpretation of Music; Music Material and Books for Study; Music as a Missionary. Objective: To refine technique of conducting and expression of music. To become more informed about music and its far-reaching spiritual powers. Lesson 16. Joy and Service Through Singing and Playing; Things We Should Know About Music; the Value of Music in Everyday Life. Objective: To expand our understanding and appreciation of music, to render more efficient service through participation in music. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1951 Required References: CornwaLL, J. SPENCER, Fundamentals of Conducting, Deseret Book Company, oc. ' Pyper, GreorceE D., Stories of the Latter-day Saint Hymns, Deseret Book Company, $2.25. FAULKNER, ANNE SHAW: What We Hear In Music, R. C. A. Manufacturing Co., Inc., Camden, New Jersey, $2.25. Suggested Books for the Relief Society Library: WobDELL, W. FREDERICK: Choir and Chorus Conducting, Presser Music Co., Philadelphia. FAULKNER, SHAW ANNE: Music in the Home, The Victor Company, Camden, New Jersey, $1.50. SmitTH, MELLVILLE and Krone, Max T.: Fundamentals of Musicianship, M. Witmark & Sons, New York, N. Y., $2.50. WITHERSPOON, HERBERT: Singing, G. Schirmer, Inc., New York, N. Y., $2.00. These books may also be purchased at the following Salt Lake City music stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street. Daynes Music Company, 45- 47 South Main Street. Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street. Summerhays Music Company, 21 East, First South Street. Lusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 9—"Conducting, Accompanying, and Program Planning" Florence Jepperson Madsen Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall Objective: To increase efficiency in conducting, accompanying, and correlating music with the lessons, and in planning the year's music program. "Knowledge, (E. P. Whipple). In order to gain the most benefit from this year's music course, it is imperative to review carefully the material presented like religion, must be experienced in order to be known" in last year's lessons, and use it as supplementary help. The new conductor and the new accompanist should make a LESSON DEPARTMENT thorough study of last year's lessons, so as to have the necessary background to proceed with this year's course. The 3/4 Baton Pattern (Continued) (a) Review Lesson No. 4—''Conducting," page 69, in the January Relief Society Magazine for 1951. (b) Triple rhythm, of which 3/4 is a representative symbol, originated in the Middle Ages. 'The religious leaders of that time maintained that the triple pulsation in music was the only perfect thythm. It was their belief that it represented the Holy Trinity. It was called Perfectum, and was indicated with a large O. (c) Triple rhythm is any rhythm in which the upper figure is 3, as 3/1, 3/2, 3/4, 3/8, 3/16. It will be remembered that the upper figure of all rhythms indicates the number of beats in a measure, while the lower figure shows the type of note which is the beat note. Thus, 3/1 means that there are three whole notes, or their equivalent, in a measure. (d) In triple rhythm there is regularly but one strong accent in a measure— beat one, unless, for special effects, accent marks are placed over other notes. (e) All of these rhythms are conducted with the same pattern, the 3/4, excepting when the tempo is very rapid, as in a concert waltz, like "The Blue Danube" waltz. The pattern is then in the shape of a large, narrow V—down beat 1; up Beat 2, 3. (f) Triple rhythms are naturally graceful, smooth, and restful, especially in sacred music. These characteristics should be apparent in the conductor's baton motions. (g) With these points in mind, practice the following hymns: 1. "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded" 2. "Jesus Once of Humble Birth" (These start with count 1, down beat.) 3. "I Need Thee Every Hour" (This begins with count 3, up beat. In the above three hymns, the quarter note is the one-beat note.) 499 4. "Rock of Ages" (This begins with count 3, up beat.) 5. "God of Our Fathers, Known of Old" (Woodbury) 6. "Lead Kindly Light" In these last three hymns, the halfnote is the one-beat note. Number 5 and 6 start with the last half of the second beat. Because of the difficulty involved in beginning songs in fractional measures, such as occurs in these last two hymns, it is best to start with the complete 3/4 pattern. In No. 5 count (silently) one and two, "God of Our..." ete. In No. 6 count (silently) one and two, "Lead Kindly Light..." ete. Selecting Music to Correlate With Subjects in the Lesson Dcpartment (a) As soon as a conductor receives the July Magazine, she should carefully read the previews and the lessons in all the departments in order that she might select songs that will correlate with the subjects to be studied. This material should be discussed in the music department at union meetings. (b) It is a courteous gesture to invite the accompanist to help select the musical numbers. (c) An organ, piano, or violin solo might sometimes be used to give characteristic color to a lesson. For example, when a Scotch: poet is to be studied, any wellknown Scotch music, with its distinctive rhythm and melody, might be played. Or, for an English poet, either a quiet pastorale or a lively country dance might be used. Program Planning "Nine-tenths of efficiency is preparedness" (Dr. Frank Crane). We recommend that the conductor and the accompanist, in co-operation with the Relief Society presidency, outline at the very beginning of the season, their musical activities for the year. Thus, they will have sufficient time for the preparation of coming events. Of these events, the most important are: The Relief Society conference in November, and the special program in March. These programs are FASTING AND THE FAST DAY Fasting and the Fast Day (Continued from Page 439) would estimate that the meals were worth fifty cents each, the Church would receive over twelve million dollars per year. Imagine the untold amount of good that could be accomplished if all of the Church membership would live in accordance with the fast-day commandment from God by fasting and paying honest fast offerings. 'These contributions would not only take care of all the needy of the Church, but under normal conditions there would be a vast amount of surplus money that might be used for other desirable purposes in building up the kingdom of God. The authorities of the Church do not attempt to tell each individual member how much his or her meals are worth, and how much fast offerings he or she should pay. 'That decision is left to each person individually. 'The important thing, however, is for every Latter-day Saint to be sure that he deals honestly with the Lord by giving at least the cost of two average meals that he would have eaten. If all saints throughout the world from this moment onward would be faithful in keeping God's commandments to fast, to pray, to pay honest fast offerings, to keep our hearts clean and pure, and to walk in the paths of truth and righteousness in all respects, our Father in heaven would shower an untold number of blessings upon us. We would then prove worthy of the numerous blessings that we receive from day to day from our all-wise Benefactor and would be received by the Son of man as true saints of the Most High. 501 Appropriate Patriotic Music for Reltef Soctety Choruses — America I Love You—Gottler $.15 — America My Own—Cain.15 ) - Dear Land of Home—Sibelius.15 4 Flag Without a Strain—White.15 __.. My Own America—Wrubel.20 a My Own United States— Edwards _ -.--WW------..- le _ One World—O''Hara _.20 _— Sons and Daughters of a Land Re-born—O'Hara _.20 _ This is My Country— Scott-Jacobs ' — To Thee, O Country—Eichberg lS Music Sent on Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah: Please send postpaid the music aged:: above. [] On Approval C] Charge Money Enclosed: a naaie— Address hn COI ssa aia scenes nesbicne FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Da aynes 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET so A SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN When you hear folks say: "OUR WATER HEATER IS PERFECT" Buy From Your Dealer @ A UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. MESSAGE PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. The Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 502 Cpu Soil Grace B. Wilson I cannot keep a tidy house, Nor bake good apple pie, Nor have a snow-white washing, And I will tell you why: The dewy smell of morning Calls me to come along, The bright flowers nod approval, The lark sings his best song. When shut within my own four walls I only find defeat, But dawns were made for folks like me, And winds are honey-sweet. Light and Shadows Evelyn Fjeldsted As shadows are the deepest On the brightest day, So life's darkest hour holds A light that points the way. Hirst Si leps Bernice T. Clayton You did not see me walk today, As you had prayed you would; From chains of illness I was freed, At last I walked and stood! Although we planned so many times The day when I'd be free Of pain and suffering, in our dreams, You always walked with me. Your loving courage never failed, To keep my own hopes high, I did not know you would not wait To see me walking by. You could not be with me today, Or do the things we'd planned, But your gay courage urged me on And lent a guiding hand. So, for these first important steps, And since you've gone away, I wore your bright red slippers, And I walked alone today. On Old Faces Mabel Law Atkinson We see Lovely etchings On old faces, For time's artistic brush Records each thought of beauty... Through the years. Desert Scene Bertha Cragun My neighbor, in uncaring bliss, Will pin her clothes up hit and miss, And wonder why I take the time To reach perfection on the line; With pillow cases hung in pairs, And towels symmetrically in stairs; White shirts together in a row, The sizes matching as I go. The answer? I can hardly say, Unless—that I recall the day I passed a windblown desert home. It looked quite desolate—alone— But for a line of clean-washed clothes Hung lovingly, in long neat rows, That, as the train whizzed quickly by, Reached friendly banners to the sky. Prayer Virginia L. Morris "He that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall compass him about" _ (Psalms 32:10). I pray to be loving, kind, and true. I pray for wisdom and patience, too. I trust in God's unfailing love For me on earth sent from above. Help me to understand my friend. My next door neighbor my love I send. Help me thy spirit to inspire To spread thy love both near and far. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT We wish to inform our many friends that the location of the JOSEPH Wm. TAYLOR MORTUARY, will be the same for some time. Our mortuary site is in proximity to the center of activity of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and their need for our premises seems imperative. When building conditions are favorable our new home will be built — adequate — close in — modern — and dependable in every way, carrying forward the traditions of integrity established by our founder JOSEPH Wm. TAYLOR whose daughter MARGUERITE TAYLOR BECK is now carrying on the family tradition, assisted by her husband CHARLES ASHER BECK, daughter GLORIA, and a competent staff. JOSEPH Wm. TAYLOR MORTUARY 125 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah Page 503 From lear and Sar Frequently we hear our stake Magazine representatives urging our members to subscribe. When I hear this appeal I wonder how anyone can afford to be without this periodical, Each month I receive various copies of current, popular women's magazines, which I enjoy, but The Relief Society Magazine is the one C I most eagerly await. It is the one I enjoy most. —Alta A. Ashby, Delta, Utah I would like to take this opportunity to row much I enjoy The Relief Society gazine. 'Today I have read Archibald F. Bennett's article "A Key to the Occurrences of History" (February 1951), and I feel that this article alone is worth the price I pay for the Magazine. I wish to say thanks, dear sisters, for sending out words of comfort, entertainment, and inspiration not to be found in any other of the women's periodicals. —Miss F. M. Draper Mitchelton, Queensland, Australia | I would like to express my appreciation for our wonderful Magazine. I enjoy it from cover to cover, and especially the poetry. Some of the most beautiful poems I have ever read are in our Magazine. As you know, there are not many branches of the Church in this part of the country. There isn't one in the town where I live, so that makes the Magazine that much more welcome. The stories are so beautiful they go might to my heart. My sister-in-law, Mrs. Guenivere White, of Hurricane, Utah, sends me the Magazines, and I consider them the best birthday present I have ever had. —Annabelle Heaton Salisbury, North Carolina Several of my students have been studying the Magazine, and I've heard some excellent. Comments.' Although — the stories and articles have come in for praise, the verse and the high standards it has attained have caused the most favorable comment. —Helen Hinckley Jones Altadena, California Page 504 With a family of small children to rear, I find that the lessons in the Magazine help me in many ways. We have five children, and the family as a whole enjoy the Magazine very much. —Mrs. Oren L. Kimber Grouse Creek, Utah The Article "These Things Are Ours Forever,' by Betty Zieve, page 500, was written about her grandmother Francis Anderson Lambert (1860-1939), a pioneer of Kamas, Utah. ~ My thoughts hold much of the. Fine poetry written by Anna Prince Redd, and now in her beautiful poem "Blue Spring" (May 1951 frontispiece), there is a tinge of sadness blended with exquisite emphasis that the memory holds. Her simile of youth and age is so descriptive, and the comparison made so beautiful. Now she has come to where time turns; where ferns have gone and tangled aspens lie gray as her hair. She has left much to be remembered. I could not hesitate to write this note. —Helen G. Woods Idaho Falls, Idaho ~ It is a pleasure to write and tell you how much I enjoy the Magazine. I have been a subscriber for twenty years—ever since I joined the Church. —RMrs S. K. Crawford ~~ Springdale, Utah I am sure that everyone who subscribes to and reads The Relief Society Magazine will find many ideas of help and selfimprovement. Also, there are many interesting faith-promoting stories to be found in this wonderful Magazine. —Mary H. Stoddard, President, California Mission Relief Society, Los Angeles, California The Magazine is exceptionally good. It contains so much of the gospel and so much helpful information. —Florence B. Zobell, Murray, Utah HIESE great texts and usual aids— for your Relief Society Courses of Study 1951-52 THEOLOGY: THE BOOK OF MORMON Missionary edition $1.00 00..000000 $1.25 by mail Library edition 0.0.0.2 ee$2.00 Large type edition $3.00 The George Reynolds Book of Mormon Chart. A graphic, chronological chart of all Book of Mormon events, synchronized with events of ancient history of Greece, Rome—Assyria, Persia—; featuring each historian, the major peoples: Nephites, Lamanites, Mulekites, Gadianton Robbers; complete legend, giving the Book of Mormon in headlines. 16" x 74" in 5 colors. Published originally in 1898 by George Reynolds; reissued in 1931 and 1951. $3.00. The best Book of Mormon visual aid yet produced. SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE PROGRESS OF MAN $2.50 by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith LITERATURE: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND Volume 2 nnn eee eee eee DATS By mail _ ee. Oc ceneeneeeeeee D495 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers SO YOUNG AND OLD CAN ENJOY FINANCIAI SECURITY al _ 5 Se BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Company Salt Lake City, Utah AUGUST 1951 
