THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 MAY 1951 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

President George Albert Smith by Joseph Fielding Smith 292
First Presidency Reorganized 294
Mother — Three Pictures by Stephen L Richards 295
Joy in Service by Achsa E. Paxman 305
"Seek After These Things" by Ruth M. McKay 310
The Spirit of Motherhood by Hazel McAllister 320

FICTION

A Mother's Day Surprise by Lydia Bennett Egbert 298
For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 4 by Mabel Harmer 314
You Can Learn by Katherine Kelly 317

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 306
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 307
Editorial: The Safe Harbor of Home by Vesta P. Crawford 308
Magazine Subscriptions for 1950 by Marianne C. Sharp 322
The Magazine Honor Roll for 1950 326
From Near and Far 360

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Floral Arrangements for the Home by Inez R. Allen 311
Start With Yourself by Caroline Eyring Miner 354

POETRY

Blue Spring — Frontispiece by Anna Prince Redd 291
In a Very New Garden by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 297
Dewdrop by Margaret B. Shomaker 303
My Joy by Gene Romolo 304
I Have Returned to the Valley by Dorothy J. Roberts 305
What Shall We Hold? by Margery S. Stewart 309
May by Grace Sayre 309
The Ancient Prayer by Pansye H. Powell 309
Lullaby by Ora Lee Parthesius 320
My Mother by Mirla Greenwood Thayne 321
The Promise by Maud Miller Cook 354
Blossoming by Ruth Harwood 359
The Road Is Marked by Grace Barker Wilson 359
My Heart Is Bound by Josephine J. Harvey 359

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

ANY 3 OF THESE FINE BOOKS PLUS FEW CENTS DELIVERY WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE Family Reading Club

YES. You are invited to accept ANY THREE of the books shown on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are WORTHWHILE, INTERESTING and ENTERTAINING without being objectionable, the Family Reading Club is just what you have been looking for! Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards. Our Editors then select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members. These are books which EVERY MEMBER OF YOUR FAMILY CAN READ —books to be read with pleasure and retain in your home library with pride.

HOW MEMBERS SAVE 50%

There is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. It is not necessary to purchase a book every month — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership. And you will receive a wonderful new "Bonus" Book FREE for each four selections you take. Thus, the purchase of books through the Club for only $1.89 each — instead of the publishers' regular retail prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save as much as 50%!

Join Now — Send No Money

If you believe in a book club which will appeal to the finest instincts of every member of your family, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club NOW, while you can get YOUR CHOICE of ANY THREE of the wonderful books described here — two as your FREE Membership Gifts, and one as your first selection — for only $1.89! Send no money, just mail the coupon today. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!

FAMILY READING CLUB
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD, By Fulton Oursler — A reverent and faithful retelling of the sublime story of Jesus, bringing Him and those whose lives were entwined with His excitingly close to you. Publisher's edition, $2.95.

SON OF A HUNDRED KINGS, By Thomas B. Costain — The famous author of "The Black Rose" now weaves a story of Canada at the turn of the century. This is a rich novel that you will surely enjoy. Publisher's edition, $3.00.

Funk & Wagnalls NEW COLLEGE STANDARD DICTIONARY — The first basically different word guide in years! Contains 145,000 entries; 1,420 pages; measures 6 1/2" x 9 1/2" in size. Must volume for your home library. Publisher's edition, $5.50.

STORIES OF THE GREAT OPERAS, By Milton Cross — Contains every aria, all the action, the complete stories of 72 of the world's best-loved operas. 627 pages offer many years of rewarding study. Publisher's edition, $3.75.

WINTER WEDDING, By Martha B. Harper — Escaping from bitter tragedy, a young and heart-broken Pennsylvania girl decides to leave her Civil War home. This is the story of how she found comfort and love in far-off Iowa. AMERICA COOKS, By The Browns —Contains over 1600 recipes — the finest of each of the 48 states — from mouth-watering old-fashioned favorites to up-to-the-minute taste delights. Crystal-clear directions keep you from going wrong. I MAIL COUPON NOW! F FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 5 RSM y MINEOLA, NEW YORK I Please send me the three books I have checked below as my two f Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only I $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. I D The Greatest Story Ever Told CJ Stories of the Great Operas I 0 Son of a Hundred Kings C) Winter Wedding i 0 New College Standard Dictionary [] America Cooks. Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send I ime, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have I the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept y any Selection, or alternate book — at the special members' price i of only $1.89 each(plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or I alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, | will 1 one a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates Wig g | accep i Mr. TT ee 1 Miss (Please Print) I Address i a Zone State B Age. If Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2 g Under 21 Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada. J N N \ < N R "X N S Zs My Ce "UM py, Wayne Davis BIG LAKE, ARIZONA THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 5 MAY 1951 Blue Spring Anna Prince Redd _ Oh, slower, please! Cars are so swift. Let me know how it feels To want to be there, Yet held to the pace Of my father's gray team And the creaking turn of wagon wheels; The gray horses tossing their heads, Flecking the mountain road with foam. Let me meet the wind, my body taut, Let me feel as I felt. When, at last, they would bring The family of us to the picnic spring! Let me be the first to slippery slide Down the black leaf mould Of the crater pit; First to balance on the pinion log That halfway bridges the spring And dips with our weight Into the ice-cold, blue, blue water— Not the blue of harebells or bluebells Or larkspur stars— Water the color of robin eggs, Yet as clear as the shining tin of my cup When I lean far out and dip it up. I have waited so long to come back— And now I am here But time has turned memory to tears. I shall not run down the crater pit, Let seven and ten do that; I must go down by the winding path Once fringed with ferns and wild geranium. But now they are gone! The silver aspens Beaver-cut, lie branchless and tangled, Gray as time—and my hair. I had forgotten that earth ages, too; But the spring remains—and is just as blue! The Cover: Desert Yucca Blossoms, Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen. President George Albert Smith President George Albert Smith A Tribute President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve HAKESPEARE in his play Julius Caesar ascribes to Mark Antony the following tribute as he stands over the fallen body of Brutus after the battle of Philippi: His life was gentle, and the elements So mix'd in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world "This was a man!" With far better grace and truth this can be said of President George Page 292 Albert Smith. He was a man in the full sense in which Shakespeare used this expression. In character and nobility he stood out pre-eminently among his fellows. But President Smith was not only a man by all the critical measurements that could be applied to him by human standards; he was a son of God! Is this blasphemy? In the eyes of the ignorant and the ungodly this statement may be so considered. Such was the accusation brought against PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH the Redeemer of this world by his enemies. Because he declared to them that he was sent by his Father and was verily his Only Begotten Son, they took up stones to stone him. His answer to them was that the scriptures so declared it; and not only this regarding himself, but to all others: "Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken; Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?" Moreover, to Adam was this truth first made known and the Lord said to him, "And thou art after the order of him who was without. Beginning of days or end of years from all eternity to all eternity. Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen." He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son (Rey. 21:7). President George Albert Smith never faltered no matter how difficult the task, and like Nephi he knew that when the Lord called, he would prepare the way that his purposes could be accomplished. Every commandment he. Sacredly observed. He loved his brethren with a righteous love and honored and respected them, each in his given calling. He kept the second great commandment as faithfully as any man I ever knew. His thoughts were 293 constantly employed in the interest of the wayward whom he tried to bring into a better way of life. He never spoke evil of any man; although he deplored the actions of the wicked, he was ever ready to extend the hand of forgiveness to them if they would repent. To him all men were his brothers, children of God created in his image. He filled all the requirements of divine law in the visiting of the sick, extending the hand of mercy to the wayward, comforting those who mourned, cheering the depressed, and in doing good to all men. In all my long acquaintance with him, which dates as far back as memory goes, I never heard a vulgar expression, an unclean word, come from his lips. His friends were numberless and were spread over the four quarters of the earth. He may have had some enemies, for this is the heritage of every righteous man; but if there were such, they were so without justification, and the only reason that could be given for such a thing is that there are some who hate the truth and all those who endeavor to live it. His testimony of the 'Truth was perfect. He knew that there is a God in heaven; that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son in the flesh. 'That Joseph Smith was in very deed a prophet and that he was called to open and stand at the head of this glorious last dispensation of the fulness of times. He never faltered in this testimony and bore it to the great and small, to kings and princes, presidents and 294 potentates, without fear or favor. To him all were alike, the rich and the poor, the great and the small— all the children of God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Like Abou Ben Adhem he was one who loved his fellow men, and his name has found its proper place written in the Lamb's Book of Life. ~~. Sirst Presidency Reorganized ON Monday, April 9, 1951, at a solemn assembly—the sixth and concluding session of the 121st annual conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints—President David Oman McKay was sustained as the ninth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Also sustained were Elder Stephen L Richards as First Counselor and Elder Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. As Second Counselor in the First Presidency. President McKay and his two counselors have proved themselves great and inspired leaders and have endeared themselves to Church membership over their long years of service. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith was sustained as the President of the Quorum of the 'Twelve. President Smith has been acting head of the Quorum of the 'Twelve since last October. He is recognized and esteemed as a true servant of the Lord, untiring in the discharge of his duties. | The procedure followed in voting was in the manner prescribed by President John Taylor, third President of the Church. The voting for the First Presidency, Council of q 4 the Twelve, and the Presiding Patriarch was by quorums from the First Presidency down to the lesser Priesthood and then by the membership of the Church present, standing and signifying their approval by their uplifted hands. 'The voting for the other General Au-' thorities, general officers, and auxillary boards was in the usual manner by the uplifted hands of the seated congregation. | The conference, which was adjourned on Saturday to hold the funeral services of the great and beloved leader President George Albert Smith, was one of the most unusual ones ever held. The historic Tabernacle was filled to capacity and thousands participated in the proceedings through television and radio. The proceedings were characterized by a spirit of love and selflessness to be found in no other assemblies in the world today. 'The spirit of the Lord was present in power and the solemnity of the concluding session and the inspiration of the entire conference have etched indelibly upon the hearts of Latterday Saints that this is indeed the Church of Jesus Christ. 4 4 Because of the press date for the May Relief Society Magazine, articles on the new leaders of the Church will be printed in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Mother—Three Pictures President Stephen L Richards Of the First Presidency HILE contemplating Mothers Day and motherhood, I happened to notice in the public. Press the picture of a woman—a refugee from one of the Korean fields of battle. She was leading a small child by the hand, nursing an infant, and carrying a huge load (perhaps all her worldly possessions) on her head. One could well imagine that her South Korean husband was either fighting in the war or dead, that all family ties had been disrupted, and her kindred lost to her in the great confusion. She was trudging wearily and painfully on to save life, while the armies which had encompassed her country were engaged in the terrible, methodical business of taking life. It is not likely that anyone in America in the shelter and security of even our poorest homes could realize and visualize the desperate plight of this desperate woman. No matter how weary and discouraged she was, she could not stop. Had she been alone she might have taken a chance on surrender, but she could not take that chance, she was a mother. She was entrusted with life more precious than her own. She had to preserve it. There is a delightful picture of mother which comes to us with the annual observance of her day. 'There she sits in a cozy room in a cozy rocker, hair gray or graying, a soft and tender light in lovely eyes, placidly knitting, sewing, or reading, a perfect picture of serenity and mature loveliness. It is not difficult to imagine the thinking and the happiness of this dear lady. She has given her life to her children, and they have given their love and devotion back to her. She rejoices in their successes even more than in her own—their happiness is her happiness, their welfare, her deepest concern. What a pity it is that this portrayal does not characterize motherhood throughout the world. There is yet another picture of motherhood which I hesitate to draw, perhaps it is indelicate to include it within a Mother's Day tribute. I justify its inclusion on the ground that it may serve to enhance appreciation for the nobility of character which so universally commands our esteem and affection on this occasion. 'This other picture is one of neglect and failure to accept the responsibilities incident to this most vital of all human relationships. It arises, usually, out of unwanted and unwelcome children, or desertion of home and children for other loves and ambitions, or for unmitigated frivolity. It is an unnatural, sorry picture. The resulting consequences are tragic, too extensive in all their ramifications even to be mentioned here. But the picture is necessary to point up the precise things to which we give honor and reverence on Mother's Day. It is by no means the biology alone of this universal institution which commands respect, although there is always a measure of deferPage 295 296 ence and regard for one who brings children into the world, irrespective of the fidelities involved. This is perhaps as it should be, but the fervent tributes we offer to motherhood are chiefly directed, whether consciously or not, to the qualities of mind and heart and soul which normally, naturally, and _ rightly characterize this sacred relationship. It is a sacred relationship if anything ordained of God is sacred. And I think it safe to say, generally speaking, that those who live to the highest ideals of this institution are prompted and sustained by religious considerations. I know of no loftier concepts of home and family and motherhood than those coming from the restored gospel of our Lord set forth in the revelations to the latter-day Prophet, Joseph Smith. In these interpretations, the sphere of mother is exalted beyond compare. She is entrusted with the mortal life of the spirit-child of God, our eternal and universal parent. She nurtures the prenatal life in self-sacrifice, and she brings that life into the world with an instinct for its protection and defense at once tender and combative. God placed that instinct in her for the presetvation of the life he gave. Woman blessed with this lofty understanding recognizes in her call to motherhood an obligation higher and even more demanding than the physical protection of her offspring. She knows that it is her duty to do all that lies within her power to help the child pass through mortality as a loyal and devoted son or daughter of God that the child may be returned to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 the eternal parent, acceptable to him, the Judge of life. Such a mother knows that in the mortal probation there will be innumerable vicissitudes of fortune, condition, and environment; she knows that she cannot be with her child through all of these, but she has faith that if she can bless the life entrusted to her care, especially in its early stages, with knowledge of the fatherhood of God and his providence in all things and with faith, humility, courage, fortitude, and resolution always to uphold the right, she will have performed her mission of motherhood. In such a concept, duty comes first. Duty is always rigorous and exacting. It does not tolerate neglect, and it will not permit itself to be subordinated to pleasure and levity. It entails seeming sacrifice, but sacrifice is a word of many defnitions and constructions. If we mean by it foregoing many of the quests and liberties for personal pleasure outside family and home, then there are many sacrifices. If we include sleepless nights, physical exhaustion, and incessant toil, there is more sacrifice. But if our vision " is raised, and we look ahead to the maturity and nobility of lives whom the mother has nurtured and developed, then we interpret all of the self-denial, all of the patient labor and exertion as opportunity for the fulfillment of the greatest mission that can ever come to woman— motherhood, which brings into the world and guides back to God the eternal souls of men. What such an exalted concept of motherhood, if universally understood and accepted, would do for MOTHER—THREE PICTURES the homes of men and, through them, for the nations of the world, no one can estimate. It makes a home the mission of a lifetime; it deters divorce; it provides its own rewards; it makes for the safest sanctuary of all the virtues; and, in its higher aspects, it serves to create the prototype of the heavenly status—the eternal home which awaits the faithful of all of God's children. Perhaps we can add something, and we should certainly try, to the joy and happiness of mothers in the observance of the day set apart in their honor. Our tributes may do something to stir some sense of pride and responsibility in neglected homes. If it should bring about even a little more tender solicitude for starving children, starving for affection, starving for the warmth and security of a home, it would be worthwhile. But to the mothers who are as priestesses in the temple of the home, who have accepted the obligations and the opportunities of their missions, who have 297 brought nobility of character and divinity of purpose to their children and are in process of doing so, our encomiums can add but little. 'The satisfactions they experience transcend all our words of praise and tribute. So it is that the highest tribute of love and respect we can pay to mother—the one most acceptable to her—is the tribute of a good life, a life compatible with her own ideals, which will give her assurance of blessed reunion with her loved ones in the life to come. Mother's Day is, therefore, a time of consecration and devotion to the ideals of home and family. Every flower which is presented, every verse that is written, every song that is sung, may be, if we will it so, not only a token of love to those who have begotten and loved us, but also an enduring dedication of our lives to the greatest and most permanent of all institutions of society —home and family and mother. | o< >< Jn a Very New Garden Eva Willes Wangsgaard Scant yesterdays, this plot was barren waste Of sand and rubble parched by wind and heat, Where scented lilies now are making haste To open paths where moth and pollen meet. Against the drought no bee of striped gold, No dragon fly spreads iridescent wing. Now petaled branches lift all they can hold Of humming life and feathered caroling. And whether I or garden first shall take The way to dust or far alluvial stone Can matter not at all, for both will make The certain change, alone, yet not alone. And who can think the spirit, being more, Will cease to be without the form it wore? A Mother's Day Surprise Lydia Bennett Egbert T was six o'clock when Marilyn Harwood turned in at Central Market.: "Just in the nick of time," remarked the man at the door who was ready to. Lock up. "T'm sorry to be such a late customer, but I won't take long," she apologized. "Quite all right, lady. Take your time—we're used to it." The man was good-natured. Drawing a cart from the row, Marilyn wheeled it hurriedly through the aisles, taking down items from the half-empty shelves and tossing them into the basket. Knowing only too well the feeling of a clerk toward a late customer, she meant to make good her promise by not making unnecessary purchases. Though the man at the door had appeared pleasant, he probably felt like shoving her out. | But usually by the time she finished the typing "gine she did at home, and then delivered the finished manuscripts to her customers, it was too late for efficient shopping. Still suffering from shock at the death of her husband six months before, Marilyn sometimes felt that the continual work at the typewriter was more than she could endure. This, to a great extent, however, she was overcoming. Time had done much for her. With the passing of the months, she had regained her composure, and her strength. Wheeling her cart to the vegetable department, she came to a pause and critically eyed the counters with their picked-over vegetables. She thought, I never can get here Page 298 in time to choose from the best. Why couldn't my: trouble have happened to someone who _ was "more qualified for such a responsibility? Supporting a family of three children wasn't an easy task for anyone these days, much less for a widow with only the wages of a typist. And. Yet she was fortunate that there was something which she could do in her own home to — earn money. There wouldn't be as much as even a garden, either, to help out this year. With Fred, the raising of a garden had been more or less a hobby, rather than for economy's sake. But often he had admitted that it was a saving on the grocery bill, and surely it was a satisfaction to know that you could pick your own fresh vegetables without having to depend upon a tasteless variety from the store counter. As she emerged from the grocery store, the thought of her children quickened her steps, her heart mellowing in thankfulness for her precious family. In contrast to her former despondent thinking, her mind enumerated her many blessings. Why had she given way to such an ungrateful mood? It was not that she had lost faith in the Lord, nor was it that she had become less appreciative of his goodness to her. Many friends had been sent to comfort and offer their sustaining love and assistance. Through the months that had elapsed, their thoughtful services had never been withdrawn. The kind and generous neighbors who lived near—it was as if they A MOTHER'S DAY SURPRISE had been placed there as guardian angels for her and her little family, and her heart flooded with gratitude as she remembered the Allens who helped to look after the children when she was especially busy. VEN the children had become remarkable in their behavior since their father's death. _ Elevenyear-old Susan and Richard, nine, it seemed, had suddenly grown up, working harmoniously — together, helping about the home, and looking after little Jerry who was in his first year of school. Financially, she had been equally 'blessed. The insurance had made the final payment on the home and had cleared her of all other debts. Besides, she had a little extra that had been placed in reserve for the children's education. Marilyn looked up to see the sun sinking behind the amber clouds over the western hills and realized that already she had reached home. With the click of the gate, two rollicking round-faced boys came running. Eagerly Michael relieved her of the small bag of groceries; Jerry, chattering cheerily, clung to her arm as they proceeded along the walk and into the house. "Where is Susan?" Marilyn inquired. She placed her light-weight coat on a hanger in the cloak closet. "Tm here, Mother!" echoed Susan's voice from the kitchen. "Come on in and see what we have good to eat!" The boys speeded up their gait, Marilyn following. "What is it, Susan?" Michael called in a high-pitched voice. "Bet I can guess—chocolate cake!" shouted young Jerry. 299 "Um-m, I do smell something lucious. But it's certainly not chocolate cake," Marilyn said. She entered the kitchen. ""Have you been trying your hand at cooking, Susan?" "No, Mother. It's beef stew with dumplings. Mrs. Allen brought it. She just left." Lifting the lid, Marilyn whiffed the delicious aroma that ascended from the bright aluminum pot. "Dear Mrs. Allen! My own mother couldn't do more." "But that isn't all, Mother. Look!" Susan opened a cabinet door and slid from the shelf a fluffy cocoanut-covered pie. Marilyn stood speechless, the rapturous exclamation of two hungry boys ringing in her ears. T was after quieting the boys and rushing them off to the bathroom to wash, that Marilyn collected her wits and began putting the finishing touches to the meal. 'Taking a loaf of bread from the bag of groceries, she placed a few slices on a plate. "Only one thing could make our meal more complete,' she commented, moving toward the table that Susan had already: set. "Salads are so refreshing in the spring." "You mean you brought something for salad, Mother? Ill cut the lettuce. It will only take a minute." Susan reached over and pulled the paper bag toward her. "No, dear. 'The vegetable counters were practically stripped tonight. Even worse than usual. I suppose we'll just have to keep eating from a can. It seems that, for us, fresh vegetables are a thing of the past." 300 "Aren't you glad that it's almost time to plant the garden, Mother?" "Tm afraid there'll be no garden this year, Susan. It would be too much for me to try to raise a garden alone with all of my other responsibilities, when I must spend so many hours at the typewriter." Susan detected a tremor in her mother's voice and wished that she could take back her words. Marilyn spoke softly to the boys as they returned to the kitchen. "Did you boys get washed, Michael? Come on, Jerry. Everything's ready. We can eat now." HE next evening when Susan returned from school, she slipped into her house dress, and, while the boys were busy playing in the yard, ran cheerfully over to Mrs. Allen's while her mother was out delivering C manuscripts. "Hello, Susan! Come right in," Mrs. Allen greeted her warmly, "and tell me of your plans for this afternoon." "T brought back your kettle and plate, Mrs. Allen. 'The food was delicious. Mother was later than usual getting home after delivering the manuscripts and buying groceries, and she really appreciated finding the dinner already _prepared. She said to tell you thanks so very much, and that when she has a day off she'll do some baking and give you something in return." The look of satisfaction that swept over Mrs. Allen's face was proof enough of the fact that she had already been amply repaid. "Tm glad it helped out, Susan. But you tell your mother that when she does take a day off from typing she needn't plan on any RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 baking. Because when that day comes the Harwoods and the Allens are all going to bundle into the car and take off for the hills. And we'll see to it that the baking gets done the day before!" "What's that you're saying, Molly, about taking off for the hills? Sounds mighty good to me!" Mr. Allen remarked. He mopped the perspiration from his wrinkled brow as he seated himself. "Getting spring fever, I reckon. Why, that sun's so warm out there everything's popping up out of the than Jack's beanstalk. Makes me itch to get my green thumb 'to working. Don't know that renting our farm was such a good idea, after all." "No doubt I can find plenty around here to keep that green thumb of yours busy,' remarked Mrs. Allen, jovially. ""There's all that stretch of perennials to work around, the rose bushes to prune, and the beds to get ready for planting. "Why, shucks, Molly, I can do that in one afternoon. Anyhow, you can't eat that stuff. My green thumb's more for growing the eatables." "Well, now, that does give me an idea!" Mrs. Allen exclaimed. "What does your mother intend to do about the garden this year, Susan?" "Nothing, I guess, Mrs. Allen. 1 mentioned the garden to Mother last night, after she said that she had arrived too late at the store to find anything fit for salad. But 1 was sorry afterwards. I think it made her feel sad to think of not being able to have a garden." ground faster | A MOTHER'S DAY SURPRISE THE <7 couple exchanged winks.. Allen arose and strolled over a the window. He stood with his hands in his pockets, viewing the little garden spot across the fence and watching the boys at play. After a moment's meditation he spoke, his words coming slowly and sympathetically. "T reckon it would be too much of a job for your mother, Susan. Got about all she can do as it is— earning money and caring for a family." Pausing, he sighed deeply. "A fair-sized piece of ground there, too. A shame to see it lying idle," "T'll say it's a shame," Mrs. Allen agreed heartily. "Land sakes, how Marilyn has enjoyed that garden other years! Why, it seems I can see her out there now in her fresh gingham, cheerful as a lark, gathering the garden stuff." Presently Mr. Allen looked up. "Susan," he said, "do you suppose your mother would want an old man like me to take over the gardening? Won't be much around our own place to keep me busy— cut the lawn and fuss around Molly's flowers a bit. I'd be a heap happier keeping myself busy." "Oh, I'm sure Mother would like you to, Mr. Allen. Only "Only what, Susan?" "Only Mother says that you and Mrs. Allen are already doing so much for our family that she'll never be able to repay you. I'm afraid she'd think it too impossible to let you do the gardening." "Shucks, Susan, Molly and me haven't done anything for you folks that wasn't paid for long before your father passed on." 301 "Indeed we haven't!" Mrs. Allen added. "And goodness me, what are neighbors good for anyway, if it isn't to help one another?" Unlocking his hands, Mr. Allen rose and strolled back to the window. For a moment there was silence. Then, with a sudden start that brought Molly to the edge of her chair, he whirled on his heel and faced the two females. "Susan!" he said, his countenance beaming, "Susan, what kind of gardeners do you think you and the boys would make? Do you suppose, with a little help from me, you could grow a garden?" Susan's eyes shone like jewels as she slid from the sofa and stood before Mr. Allen. "Oh, yes, Mr. Allen, I'm sure we could! Michael and Jerry and I would work very hard—we even have money we could use for buying the seed—that ie "That is what, Susan?" "Well, you see, Mr, Allen, Michael and Jerry and I have been saving our allowance to buy a Mothers Day present." There was a moment's hesitation. "Do you think," she continued, "that Mother would just as soon have the garden?" "Why, stars alive, Child, there's no doubt about it!" Mrs. Allen chipped in. "Why, bless my soul, think what it would mean—happiness and good things to eat all summer long." "How about making ers Day surprise?" Allen. "Do you suppose we could Keep' it a secret, Susan? Or is it likely your mother might do a little investigating in the back yard?" it a Mothsuggested Mr. 302 "Mother never has time to do much looking around the back yard, Mr. Allen. She stays right at 'the typewriter. I'm sure we could keep it a secret," and Susan's face glowed in delightful anticipation. HE following Saturday, as soon as Marilyn hdd left to deliver her day's manuscripts, a truck arrived from Mr. Allen's farm, bringing a modern garden tractor, which, besides providing excitement for the children, made quick and easy work of preparing the ground. In no time at all the small enthusiasts, under the direction of Mr. Allen, were taking turns at wielding the take and hoe. The sun was still well up in the - sky, though hidden by a cloud that afternoon, when the weary but exultant group gathered at one end of the garden, radiantly praising themselves over their accomplishments. Even Mrs. Allen, who had claimed her share of the work by soaking large,*hard-shelled varieties — of seed, managed to be on the scene. "Well, now, if that don't cap the climax!"" exclaimed Mr. When a large-sized raindrop came splashing onto the end of his nose. "Blessed if I'm not beginning to believe that good luck's a part of this business. There it is right over our heads, another of those late afternoon showers—reckon it couldn't have come at a more convenient time!" he ended with a chuckle. "We'd better find shelter," Mrs. Allen suggested. "Might be a good idea for you children to get a bit of that dirt washed off before your mother sees you." you children might like to Allen, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 From the bib of her apron she took a small, flat package and handed it to Susan. "This," she said, "is what I bought. With the amount left from the-seed money. Thought give a little personal gift to your Mother." "You mean there was money left over, Mrs. Allen? I was afraid there wouldn't even be enough for the seed." | "Remember, Susan? I told you Molly was good at stretchin' a dollar. Seems she's even better than I thought she was," chuckled Mr. Allen. T' the Harwood house, Sunday morming might have seemed like Christmas, had it not been for the song of spring chirped from the barberry bush to the rhythm of a bright red tulip that waved beneath Marilyn's window. With the first slanting rays of sun that crept below the blind, Marilyn was aware of young feet tiptoeing about the house. Instinctively she surmised that, because of excitement over a Mother's Day gift that had been hidden away, the children had not been able to sleep and had arisen with the break of dawn. 'To Marilyn, however, this was just another of those memorable days when the door of her heart stood open, hopelessly waiting for the lovable tokens that only a husband can bestow. Drawing the crisp, white sheet more closely about her, she turned her face on her tear-moist pillow and prayed silently. It was half an hour later when a light tapping at her door aroused her from peaceful slumber. A MOTHER'S DAY SURPRISE "Mother! Are you awake, Mother?" Marilyn pushed the covers from her face and lifted herself on her elbow. "Yes, dear, I'm awake. You may come in.' Instantly the door opened and three merry voices echoed, "Happy Mother's Day! Happy 'Mother's Day!" | Marilyn sat up, smiling at the little group. Susan, holding a daintily wrapped package, laid it on the bed in front of her. "Open it, Mother! It's from all of us!" she laughed. Marilyn slipped the accompanying card from the envelope, and ° with moist eyes read the affectionate verse signed with three names. Then, carefully removing the wrapping from the package, she saw an exquisitely beautiful linen handkerchief., "Oh, it is lovely!" she breathed, smoothing with a caress the luxurious lace, while profound silence permeated the room. Suddenly breaking the spell, Jerry blurted out, "Dat that isn't all, Mother!" "Isn't all?" Marilyn gasped, wonderingly. "No, Mother," chimed Michael, "we have a big surprise for you." "Well, this is a really thrilling Mother's Day," Marilyn laughed. "First a beautiful gift, then a big 303 surprise. What in the world can it be?" "It really is a nice surprise!" Susan assured her. "Will you let us blindfold you and lead 'you to it, Mother?" "Well, I suppose," Marilyn agreed. "I'm terribly curious." Everybody laughed merrily. Susan hastened to bring robe and slippers while Michael placed on the blindfold. With one at each side, holding an arm, they proceeded toward the garden. At their destination Marilyn lifted the blindfold and waited for her eyes to clear. Spellbound, she stood for a full moment, viewing the level stretch of ground—a masterpiece of professional gardening! Breathlessly she floundered for words. "Why why, I hardly know what to say—except—except this is a happy Mother's Day! Indeed, I have been blessed with the dearest little family in all the world!" Looking toward the small, white house across the lot, she saw, framed in the kitchen window, two smiling elderly faces. "And certainly," she continued, "the most loving neighbors any woman could have. "Come now, Children, we must hurry or we'll be late for Sunday School, on this wonderful Mother's Day." Dewdrops Margaret B. Shomaker Over the silken ropes of grass The morning sprinkled Tears of crystal, For the sunbeams' looking glass. Don Knight PRUNE ORCHARD, SANTA CLARA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA Page 304 4 a @ @ In May Gene Romolo In May, young laughter echoes from the hills Where children climb to fill their eager hands With gay, wild beauty blown at spring's commands... Their mirth as lilting as the mountain rills. In May, the plum tree puts on nuptial white, And peach boughs in pink-petaled perfume dressed, Like fair-faced bridesmaids, are their loveliest, Caressed by golden fingertips of light. In May, the mavis and the bluebird swing From branch to branch among the orchard bloom, Joyous as gitls who flit from room to room And, in exuberance of being, sing. In May, we twine syringa and snowballs For wreaths of tribute on Memorial Day, But not to death. On life's progressive way, — Our eyes turn ever toward where summer calls. Yoy in Service Achsa E.. Paxman — Member, General Board of Relief Society: N a wall in the beautiful memorial Church at Stanford University is an inscription which reads as follows: If every person in the world should wrap his troubles in a package and bring his package to throw into a heap with all the other troubles of the world; and then if every person were told that he could go to the heap and select whatever package of trouble he cared to choose, each would take his own package away with him. All humanity is seeking greater life satisfaction. All are searching for the things that will bring into their lives the greatest sense of accomplishment, the greatest happiness. Jesus said, ""Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain." Our Prophet Joseph Smith said to Relief Society women: ' e You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Do you know of any other organization which holds out such promise to its members? We receive only in measure as we give. Yes, we must give if we are to receive. Let us have consideration for others, love, friendship, devotion. Arise and do something worthwhile, and the blessings of the Lord will be with you. We are not here to play, drift, or dream. There is hard work to do, and hands to lift. Shun not the struggle, face it, it is God's gift. Quoting from the closing paragraph of A Century of Relief Society: May the women of Relief Society continue to trust in their God, make their homes holy places, train up their children in the pure love of Christ, and clothe themselves with the mantle of charity, that in their homes and in their ministrations abroad they may exercise that charity which never faileth. >< — | HAVE RETURNED TO THE VALLEY Dorothv J]. Roberts I have returned to the valley and to shade, Daily growing deeper on the lawn; Far from the plain where lace of leaves is laid, I come to elms embroidering the dawn. From treeless regions of the hurricane, From reaches tempered not by bough or blade, Which soothe sun and tempest and rebuke the rain, I return, for healing, to the cool, green peace of shade. Page 305 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1,-and May 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A PLEASANT PARTY: A very pleasant party of ladies met by invitation at the residence of Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith on the evening of the second of May to cele- 'brate the sixty-ninth anniversary of her birth. All those assembled were particular friends of hers, and some of them had been associated with her for many long years in labors of love; several of these sisters had been acquaintances or neighbors away back in Nauvoo in the early days of the Church. "Sister Bathsheba" as she is best known, has had in many respects a serene and happy life, owing mainly to her even temperament and cheerful disposition. She is one of those well-organized or evenly balanced persons, that little things do not ruffle, and that even great troubles do not overwhelm with doubt and melancholy. She has passed through trials that many women would have sunk under, and yet she always looked upon them with heroism and fortitude, and now in her seventieth year, she stands alone, as independent as the evergreen tree, youthful in her spirit, cheerful in demeanor and gentle and gracious as though her grand and noble husband were still by her side to lean upon, though he has long since passed to "the other side." RETURN LOVE They had a quarrel and she sent His letters back next day, His ring and all his presents went To him without delay. "Pray send my kisses back to me," He wrote, "Could you forget them?" She answered speedily that he Must come himself and get them. SPEECH BY E. R. SNOW: Eighth meeting of Relief Society, Sugar House Ward, July 29, 1868. Miss Eliza R. Snow being present by invitation, addressed the sisters as follows: '""We have met in the capacity of a Relief Society. I consider this a matter of great importance. A Society of this kind has always existed whenever the priesthood has been upon the earth, and the allusion of the Apostle to the Elect Lady as recorded in the New Testament, means the one who presided over each Society in his day. The duties of the members of this Society are extensive, our minds are liable to be led off, it is necessary that we meet together often to stir up our minds to diligence; this organization gives us an opportunity to meet legally, it is not a mere plaything but a sacred holy duty, under the direction of your Bishop, do not run to him with every trifle. —S. E. Angell, Sec. RECOMPENSE Woarthless the gold while yet untried by fire; The finest statue grows by many a blow. He who has much to meet may much aspire, He of the even way must stay below. Page 306 | (s << MBs. FRANK A. JOHNSON (Edna Evans), prominent Salt Lake musician, received notable recognition when Salt Lake was chosen as the place to hold the twenty-sixth national biennial convention of the National Federation of Music Clubs and the' Music Festival in May. Mrs. Johnson is largely responsible for bringing this convention to Salt Lake as she was the Utah representative at the committee meeting last May when this decision was made. Six hundred Relief Society Singing Mothers and twelve hundred singers from the Mutual Improvement Association, besides a large group of their dancers, the Tabernacle Choir, Utah State Symphony, and Grant Johannesen, nationally famous pianist from Utah, will participate. In addition, there will be famous national choruses, soloists, ensembles, and national and international speakers. Four thousand dollars will be distributed in awards. This will be a cultural highlight in Utah. RETURNING to the Metropolitan Opera after ten years' absence, Kirsten Flagstad, at fifty-five, received a tremendous ovation in her greatest role, Isolde. The most famous Wagnerian soprano of her generation, she still has an incomparable voice, which 'shows no decline. Although she has been a singer all her life, she did not deWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon velop her astonishing vocal power until she was thirty-seven. Her voice, becoming thus powerful, lost none of its heart-stirring beauty. She just recently announced her retirement from opera. ANNA PRINCE REDD (Mts. James Monroe Redd), wellknown and gifted Latter-day Saint author of two Relief Society Magazine serials (""I'omorrow's Cup" and "Where Trails Run Out,'") and many poems, passed away March 17, 1951. She has particularly enriched the literary heritage of her people with her stories and poems of the San Juan country of Southeastern Utah. T' was interesting to note the change of sentiment in the words of the old Hebrew prayer, "Blessed art thou, O Lord, who hast not made me a woman," and the recent statement of Rabbi Maurice Eisendrath, "There is nothing in the practice and principles of liberal Judaism which precludes the possibility of a woman serving as a rabbi." The rabbi, president of the union of American - Hebrew Congregations (Reform) was approving the appointment of the widow of Rabbi William Ackerman to act as rabbi in her husband's place, at least for the present. She is the first woman in America to hold rabbinical authority. Page: CD EDITORIAL a, VOL. 38 MAY 1951 The Safe Harbor of Home This is the true nature of home—it is the place of Peace; the shelter, not only from all injury, but from all terror, doubt, and division. —John Ruskin O many of us has come the poignant experience of returning to our childhood home, after long years of absence. And we have wondered, seeing again the familiar place, the guarding trees, the stone walk—we have wondered what has made this spot the most precious of all the earth. Seeing the walls and the windows, the long-loved doors, we have sought to comprehend the ineffable and elusive spirit of home. It is, as the poet Oliver Wendell Holmes so well expressed the thought, "Where we love is home, home that our feet may leave, but not our hearts."" And so, in returning home, we come to that place which has never been forgotten; we return to that bright memory which has held us firm and has directed our journeys in far places. Fven as our footsteps echo on the walk, we note the tall trees that father planted, the fence he built with the glad ring of his hammer pounding the nails. We see the oval space in the lawn where mother planted tall blue delphiniums, bordered with a ribbon of yellow pansies. And if our blessings have been great, we may see the place where. Grandfather planted the vegetable garden, and that small fragrant plot where grandmother tended the green herbs. Page 308 One opens the door at the threshold of home with a pause that is full of memories—and they are deep and moving memories because they have shaped our lives, and they will be with us forever. One opens the door quietly, remembering when mother was there, how beautiful it was, warm with love and welcoming. How many times have we returned in the projection of thoughts and longings to this place, for there will never. Come to us an experience more heartfelt and more lasting than returning home to mother, for therewith we return to peace, and understanding, and quiet. Remember how it was with this room, when father came home at night—the swift clatter of children's | feet, shrill voices from the stairs, "Daddy. Daddy " and the race to reach him first. Remembering how strong and how tender father was, it is no wonder that his influence has gone with us wherever we have been since the time of childhood, that his strength has made us strong, and his tenderness has given us compassion for others. How truly are we the glad inheritors of those qualities of which our father seldom spoke, but which he exemplified in his own life. How truly are we blessed for this—love and tenderness are never lost. 'They are the everlasting heritage. EDITORIAL How long in our lives the childhood home endures! Remember how quickly we grew up, how we left the home shelter one by one. Remember that there was so much more than words in mother's farewell. 'There was that silent unity of the family, which is one of the choicest gifts that life and eternity have to offer. Mother knew that we would never really leave home, that we would never really leave her. She knew that we would return often in spirit there, and that we in the lives of our children. 309 would wait eagerly for the time of actual reunion within the welcoming walls. It is a sober thought to know that the homes which we are building today will become the guiding strength and a light of inspiration May they return to our homes with the same devotion, and with the precious joy that we have known. Let us never light a lesser lamp within our homes. Ay ee C: What Shall We Hold? Margery S. Stewart The horsemen thunder now upon the north, Rage for release against the evening sky, The shadows faint upon the waiting earth, The lamps of hope grow dimmer and some die Now mothers count again their scanty store, Men search for stronger weapons while they wait. All the little houses as in fear Seem closer to the earth. The hour is late. What shall we hold against the coming night? For lantern and for food... Against the cold? Against new treasons, and the broken words, The secret places where our lives are sold? Let every heart as one forge spears of hope. Faith still can shatter vaunted Jerichos, Endure again a bitter Valley Forge, Retake a Taejon ravished by the foes Let our love go abroad in dark and rain, Bring the lost to glowing hearths, to bread. He shall not fear the horsemen's raging hooves, Who has the light and by that light is led. Belief Grace Sayre He said he gave no thought to faith, Did not believe in God; Yet every year he stored his seed And each spring turned the sod. Could anything but faith bring hope That seeds would bear their kind? Could he have hope of future fruits And be so blind? She Ancient. Prayer Pansye H. Powell One burden has haunted the song of man From the time when the world was young, Borne on the sighs of war-torn lands And chanted in every tongue. One longing has echoed in every heart, A prayer out of grief and pain: "Give us the power to make men free! Bring peace to the world again!" 'Seek After Shese Things 7 Ruth M. McKay Melbourne Branch, Australian Mission A few weeks ago one of our women investigators questioned me regarding women's activities in the Church. I would like to answer that question. Life, you know, is like climbing a mountain. You know full well that on reaching the Hope there will be unfolded to you, vistas that you never even dreamed of. But as you struggle upwards, pebbles get into your shoes and hurt your feet, briars tear and scratch you, and suddenly you trip and fall, having been unaware of a hidden rock in the ground. These can be likened to difficulties we meet with in everyday life. The pebble which hurts our feet can be likened to the unkind word, the briar which scratches and tears, the unkind act; and the hidden rock, the covert criticism of leaders. But the stout of heart, obeying the Lord's commandments, and despite their many hurts, follow the path with increased endurance. Aware of the beauty of life, they look for that beauty in everything they see, even in the things which have been misused against them, the symmetry of the pebble, the form of the briar bush, the color of the rock. So those who are pure in heart toss the pebble from the shoe, bind the bleeding scratches, and lift themselves from the fall upon the hidden rock, and go on their way with peace in their hearts, leaving far behind those who use against them the unkind word, the unkind act, or the covert criticism; for the time they spent in searching for the pebbles and briars, could have been better utilized in climbing the mountain themselves, and those who use these devices of Satan are retarding their own development. As the worthy approach the top, the gloriousness of life is etched before them. They have progressed so far that the pebbles, the briars, and the rocks cannot be seen amidst the breath-taking panorama which lies before them; and they look back over the way they have come with a sense of completeness permeating their being, fully aware that the way has been long and arduous, and that they have had to develop all their faculties to the fullest in order to reach their goal. It was in accordance with this desire to raise human life to its highest level that the women's organization of the Church, the Relief Society, was formed. What better way to give service to humanity, than by giving loving administration with gentle hands to the sick—to help the needy—to give a ready hand to those who need to rehabilitate themselves in society—to help our Latter-day Saint families by sending out visiting teachers—by helping each of our sisters develop to the highest degree, through monthly lessons in theology, where we learn of our Lord's work—in culture where we study the best of the world's literature—in music where we gain an appreciation of this lovely gift—in social science, which we can apply to everyday affairs—in our work meetings, held once a month, which provide an opportunity for the younger members to learn the skill of arts and crafts and homemaking under the guidance of the older members. This, then, is the work of the Relief Society—to help in any way we can.... Spiritually—materially—culturally, or practically, anyone desiring to attain the completeness of soul and the highest degree of happiness i in this life. I pray, that we may toss the pebbles of unkind words from our lives, brush aside the briars of unkind acts that tear and scratch us, and even though we falter because of unjust criticism, that we may straighten up again, and through obedience to the Lord's commandments, set out for our goal, giving a helping hand, without stint, wherever possible. Page 310 Floral Arrangements for the Home Inez R. Allen S there anything more delightful for us to bring into our homes than the beautiful flowers our Creator has so generously bestowed upon us? His garden covers the whole earth. We have but to open our eyes to find its beauty. Each season brings a wealth of material challenging us to use and enjoy it. Any time of year, if we walk out into the nearby woods and fields, along the streams and by the roadside, we will find the rarest of gems. Weeds of various forms, colors, and textures, are just waiting there to be | transformed into some pleasing and effective design. The mullein plant, with its velvety green leaves, if placed in a low flat dish or in a pillow vase, becomes a thing of beauty. By the roadside. During the summer its long, flat leaves and seeds are a pretty green, sometimes with a rosy tint. In autumn it turns a beautiful russet. Not only does this weed make a beautiful arrangement by itself, but very often it may be used to give height to some of the loveliest designs. Another roadside weed is the "'horsetail,'' or joint grass. Varying lengths arranged in a round, flat dish with a flamingo ceramic, are lovely in a wall niche or window, on the buffet, or at the end of your dining table. The grasses, both short and tall, the leaves, rocks, reeds, bits of gnarled branches or roots, will weep if passed by unnoticed. Even the dry desert lands present their rare specimens to be used in some pleasing arrangement. There is the dock " How fortunate are those who live in the more productive parts of this beautiful garden where variety and color vie for prominence. 'Their possibilities are unlimited. Yes, the world is full of beautiful materials for us to use. If we live where the cold winters make it impossible for us to have a garden the year around, we can supplement by growing plants indoors. Geraniums are easy to grow and give us much color. Their round leaves may be the very shape you want to give balance to your arrangement. There are the ivy, begonia, little marguerites, Philodendron, Chinese evergreen, and Aspidistra. An allgreen arrangement using some of these leaves and vines will delight you. A combination of the simplest flowers and leaves will give pleasing and striking results. Flower arrangements in the home seem to be a necessary part of our everyday living. 'They help us to translate the mood of the moment into something we can enjoy, and often supply that very touch for which we have been looking. They can express personality and taste. The arrangement becomes the highlight in the room. 'Therefore, we will have better results if we first select its position. If it is to be placed on the piano, it needs to be bold and large, made of heavy material so that it will seem to belong there. On an occasional table a dainty arrangement would be in scale. 'The long lines of the bookcase suggest far-reaching branches, or trailing vines, and the arrangePage 31] 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 ment would look much better placed near the end rather than in the center. The mantel could be treated much the same, unless there are candlesticks or other objects of balance at the ends, then the arrangement would need to be symmetrically balanced. If it is to be placed before a mirror, the rear view must be pleasing. Another formal treatment for the mantel would be to make identical or twin arrangements. It is most satisfactory. Suppose you wish to make a design for a table placed between two windows, or between a door and window. 'This narrow wall space would call for tall vertical lines with large, dark-colored flowers placed low in the arrangement to give proper interest and balance. Leaves of yucca, cattail, bearded iris, and tall grasses may be used to produce these tall, reaching lines. After you decide upon the placement of the bouquet and the lines that will best fit that placement, you will be concerned as to color. Flowers that harmonize with the color scheme of the room or some prominent piece of furniture will give it relationship. Try not to have orphan arrangements. The next problem, perhaps, would be the kind of container to use. We need not have expensive or highly decorated vases, bowls, or trays; something plain and substantial for heavy material, something pretty and dainty for smaller designs. A well-proportioned container is either higher than the width, or broader than the height. Besides earthenware, containers may be of porcelain, crystal, wood, and such metals as brass, silver, pewter, bronze, or aluminum. Why not use a grace- FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE HOME 313 ful but simple basket on your porch or in your game room? Simple forms and neutral colors in dishes and vases will make your efforts more successful. Oval dishes, shallow, but with straight sides, or the pillow vase, which resembles a brick set on end, are among the best. Flaring jars do not do as much for your arrangement as do the straight-sided round ones. Flowers with delicate texture, such as Camellias, Gardenias, and roses, would be enhanced in a lovely silver bow! Or one made of very fine china or crystal. The container becomes part of the design and harmonizes with it in size, color, and texture. 'The arrangement must carry the interest, not the container. Often the color of some part of the arrangement will be repeated in the vase. If just one color of flower is used, the contairier may carry that same tint or shade, or be in a color that is complementary. One of the best aids to flower arrangement is a suitable holder. It is a must for good arrangements. There are many kinds in various colors, weights, and materials on the market. The needle-point frog serves best for many things and especially for predominant stem lines. For thick-stemmed branches and flowers a wire holder gives good support. A good flower holder should be heavy and rustproof. E: xperiment to find the one which serves you best. The flowers are apt to tip over if the frog is not made secure. This can be done by using modeling clay, which does not dissolve in water. Your florist will sell this to you. Until the frog is securely placed, care must be taken to have both the container and the frog perfectly dry. For vases, chicken wire makes a very good holder, or a square of one-half inch mesh wire cloth rolled or bent and wedged vertically into the vase will do. Allow for space between the folds for stems or branches. Foliage is sometimes crowded into the vase to hold the stems, but if it is to be used for more than a few hours, the water will become polluted and the flowers will die. We make flower arrangements for two reasons: to feel the joy of handling cut flowers and to create beautiful pictures rich in meaning. The joy we get in arranging flowers cannot be realized without a certain amount of patient practice. Lose yourself in projecting the mood you wish to portray. Let your emotions sink deep within you. Your results will be a thrill. The Omnipotent has sown his name on the heavens in glittering stars; but upon the earth he planteth his name in tender flowers.—Richter For the Strength of the Hills CHAPTER 4 Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Camilla Fenton, an orphan from Santa Monica, California, comes to Crandall, Idaho, to teach, and marries Stanley Rodgers. In the spring when school is out. Camilla is disappointed in their big, ugly farmhouse, but all summer she cans fruits and vegetables, and in the fall she and Stanley go to California for a visit with Camilla's Aunt Lillian. HEY arrived home from California on a gray day in early November, when there was neither the majestic whiteness of winter nor the green and purple of summer to relieve the monotony of the landscape. "I guess it looks sort of bleak to you, after all the sunshine and flowers," suggested Stan as they drove along the country road. "Sort of," Camilla admitted. "It really is the worst time of the year, isn't it? But we'll have plenty to do to take our minds off the landscape—if they need taking off. I'm simply bursting with plans for the house, now that I don't have to grow a million things and then stick them in cans. And another thing, you can start paying me proper attention. You've hardly looked at me all summer while you had those spuds on your mind." "Tady, I'm certainly going to make up for lost time," he asserted, putting one arm around her shoulders. The rosy glow that enveloped her lasted until they stepped into the cold, dismal kitchen. | "I guess that I should have sent a note to the folks and had someone Page 314 come over and make fires," decided Stan, poking paper and wood into the range, "or we could have stopped there for dinner." | "Yes, we could," she agreed. Now that he had put the idea into her head, she decided that he had been extremely thoughtless to bring her into the house cold and hungry when they could so easily have stopped in at his mother's for a hot " meal. And the house looked so awful with two week's dust on the furniture, especially in the gray November light, or half light. Maybe they should have stayed in California for the rest of the winter. Aunt Lillian would have been glad to have them. Maybe they would do that next winter. The thought cheered her somewhat, although she knew well enough that Stan and her aunt couldn't possibly spend _ several months in the same house. 'T'wo weeks had been enough of a strain. After a dinner of thick steaks which Stan fried, and stringbeans and peaches from their own store, she felt in a happier frame of mind. Especially when he had built a fire in the grate and pulled up two shabby chairs, shutting out the rest of the room.: "T must be an awfully primitive creature," she said. "Warmth and - food seem to make all the difference between being happy and contented or feeling like a banshee." "I'm attracted to some of the same myself," he agreed, stretching out his long legs to the fire. "Give FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS me three good meals a day, plenty of firewood, the most beautiful redheaded wife in the world, and I don't ask for much else." "Modest creature," she laughed. Then, looking around at the shadows flickering on the walls, she proposed, "'Let's go to town tomorrow and buy paint. I think that I want light blue for this room and bright flowered chintzes for the furniture. The window will have to go until next summer, of course. We can't go cutting holes in the house in this weather." "You talk of paint and chintzes at a moment like this?" he sighed. "All right, if you have a one-track mind I suppose you have a one-track mind, and I'll have to get used to. It. We' H go shopping for paint tomorrow. GHE went to bed glowing with enthusiasm and plans for working on. The house through all the winter months. When she put her feet to the floor the next morning, a wave of nausea sent her back under the blankets. The odor of frying bacon, which ordinarily would have brought her out with a bound, only made her turn her face to the wall, as if by so doing she could also cut out the smell. A minute later Stan appeared in the doorway to announce, "Breakfast is served, Madam. And if you don't get the heck out of there, I'll put a glass of cold water down your neck." His gaiety made her feel even worse, and she muttered, "'Stop it! I'm sick." 'sick, he wepeated. "You can't be. Those steaks weren't as bad as that." 315 "Please don't joke,' she begged. "And shut the door so that I can't smell that bacon." He shut the door quickly and came to her bed. "What is it, then?" he asked anxiously. "Shall I phone for a doctor?' "No, we can see him when we go into town for the paint. Anyway, there'll be all kinds of time. I'm probably going to have a baby." "A baby!" he shouted. "Jumping grasshoppers! You don't mean it!" "T rather think I do. And I thought that prospective fathers greeted such an announcement with considerable sentiment and not with 'jumping grasshoppers.' "' "Jumping grasshoppers!" he repeated. "Imagine us with a redheaded boy! Blackie's colt will be just right for him to ride in a year or two. What do you think you'd like to eat? Name it and I'll get it, if I have to go to China." "Some fruit perhaps and a couple of soda crackers," she smiled. "We'll send to China later." She felt better after she had eaten. There was an exuberance, in fact, that she had never imagined even the prospects of a baby would bring. They would have lots of children—sons and daughters who would grow up fine and splendid, like the country about them. The old house would not be too big, and it must not be ugly. It was the beginning of new and _ wonderful things all the way through. _ After lunch they rode into town and bought the bright colors to paint the "Mexican" kitchen. "There's no need of getting more at one time than we can use," she said, "as long as the store is only a couple of hours away." Later on 316 she was to find she had made a most fortunate decision. The next morning Stan brought her breakfast to bed, and she felt reasonably well after she had eaten and dressed. "Bring on your paint," she said, after the dishes were ~ washed, 'I can't believe that we are really starting." "JT bought two brushes," he announced. "You get to do all the medium places, and I do the high and low. That's to prove that I love you and that I can reach the farthest." "Nobility at its finest flower," she agreed as he handed her a can of paint. She took three strokes across the wall by the side of the window and put the can down quickly. "O-o-oh, I can't bear it!' she cried, running to the door. "Another whiff of this paint and I'd die without a struggle." GTAN closed up the cans. "You take the car and go down to mother's," he suggested. ""T'll do the painting. Pll have at least two walls done by the time you get back. Shall I do one yellow and the other red?" "T don't care," she flung back at him, as she grabbed her coat and went out. When she returned, just about dinner time, the smell of paint was worse than ever. Almost as hard to bear was the thought that this meant further postponements of her dreams for doing anything to the house. "First it's too much summer work and no money. Now it's this," she wailed. "Next summer it will be too much work again. Do you think we'll ever get it done?" done, and that was all. Whether RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 "You might go away for a month while I do it," he suggested. Camilla considered it briefly, then: shook her head. "No, I'm afraid that wouldn't work. Where would I go? I can't go chasing back to California again. Anyway I don't want to. Maybe we can do it later in the year. And, in the meantime, I can work on some slip covers. They'll make a big difference in the living room." They agreed that he would at least have to finish the kitchen. "And the back bedroom must be made into a pink and white nursery, no matter what," she declared. "I can go down to Mother Rodgers while you do that. You can do a few dabs each day and air it out good before I come back." Following this method he managed to get the kitchen and nursery Camilla made slip covers for the lumpy couch and two chairs in the living room and then couldn't decide they looked better or worse against the nondescript walls. She finally concluded that anything would be an improvement over the way the room looked when they first moved in., She felt better as winter gave way to spring and took considerable pleasure in working out in the flower garden. Stan never went to town or to one of the neighbors that he didn't bring back a start of something or other, and by May she had pansies and iris blooming, with many other plants showing great promise. Stan took over the vegetable garden, with the help of his young brother Mickey, and as for canning, (Continued on page 355) You Can Learn QO) Ys for Quandary deg (R Ys for Roger 'Katherine Kelly ELL, that was the end of the petunia-bed for this year! _ rescued the little seedlings and replanted them, but this time they had been far enough along to be crushed and broken. Just another result of my turkey raising experiment. There just wasn't any use! Confound that turkey gobbler anyhow! Was there no other place on the whole farm where he could | take his dust bath! My face must have looked like a storm cloud as I entered the kitchen where the rest of the family were finishing breakfast. "My dear, you have watered those petunias with your tears for, this is the third year, now," 'Tom, my husband, spoke reasonably. "Won't you ever give up? You just can't have turkeys and flowers, too." "Then you knew they had ruined my petunias and never said a word," I accused. | "Yes, they are early risers. I drove the old gobbler out first thing this morning. I don't know how he got through the fence this time. Anyway, honey, they are your petunias and your turkeys. Looks like you will have to make a choice. We thought the turkeys were all right when we got that check last fall. It more than paid the interest on the farm, remember?" "Of course we have to have money, but what's the use of owning a place if we can't have it pleasant and—and beautiful!" I slumped in a chair. Twice before I had | Tom took his hat from the rack by the door, lifted my chin, and kissed me all in one gesture. "Lift up your head, my love, and see farther than the yard. This farm will look beautiful enough to me if we can ever get it paid for." "It's. That darned old gobbler!" I raged, resentment so hot I had to take it out on something. "That gobbler is nothing but a nuisance. When the little turkeys hatch, he'll strut round and round the pens, and step on the little turkeys with his big feet, and eat their food, and even threaten me when I go to feed them. I'd like to chop his head off!" "A necessary evil, Mother," my husband chuckled, as he went through the door. Then I became aware that Ernie, our oldest child, was trying to comb his own hair. It still seemed impossible that he was old enough to go to school. What kind of a mother was I anyway? "Here, Son, mother will help you with that part. Did you get your ears clean?" Ernie squirmed a little as I examined his ears and straightened his shirt collar. "Where did Kathy and Roger go?" "Outside someplace. Please hurry, Mother, it's nearly time for the bus." "All right. Lunch." As I followed him to the door, my eyes searched the yard for Kathy. I knew that wherever she was Roger Page 317 Don't forget your 318 would be also. She was a regular little mother to him. There they were, kneeling by the flower bed trying. To replant my 'petunias, Kathy's dark head and Roger's blond one close together. My heart gave a tug, and quick tears came to my eyes. "Don't cry, Mama, we fix 'em," Kathy comforted me as she left the _ broken flowers. Roger looked up into my face. Roger, our youngest, was only a year and a half, but he was a husky little man. From the first it had seemed that he had come into this world with a definite purpose, and come what might, he was going to stay and accomplish it. Kathy had come into the circle of my arms and was searching my face doubtfully. "We don't care too much about the petunias, we'll have sweet peas in a few weeks," I continued. "See, * the turkeys can't hurt the sweet peas because these sticks we put for them to climb on, protect them." "Mummy!" Kathy always called me mummy when we were close like this. "Can't we put sticks in the petunias, too?"' "Well, it might be an idea for. Another year.' The bus honked over at Jensen's crossing, and I glanced up the lane to be sure that Ernie was going to make it. He had reached the gate, he would make it all right. I tingled with pride. Ernie knew where he _ wanted to go also. In the set of his shoulders I could read determination enough to take him through all the years, as far as he wanted to go. And I knew that it would be: far. Somehow that long lane was symbolic. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Such wonderful children! They would be strong where I was weak, and they would have and do all the things we could only dream about. I had scarcely finished the dishes when I heard the call of the turkey hen, the high-pitched, clucking noise the hens make when they ~ are going to lay their eggs. They use it to coax the other turkeys to follow them and sort of cover for them while they go to their nests. It was my signal to follow and find the nest. I looked out the window and saw one hen leading the way and acting nonchalant, as she pecked here and there, to show her indifference, but all the time she aimed directly toward the bushes along the fence at the far end of the field. The other hens followed along, obedient. To the call, and the gobbler strutted after them, dragging his wings and showing off as usual. I watched from the window and worked intermittently till they were nearly to the top field, then I caught up my big straw hat and started across the yard in a hurry. Kathy and Roger had finished their fence and were watering their stick horses in the ditch. Roger dropped his with a splash and ran toward me. "Me go, too, Mama, me go wif." "No you can't go, honey. Mama has to hurry, and she has to go quietly so she can find where the turkey will lay her egg. You play with Kathy. Kathy, come and get him and watch him carefully. That turkey gobbler isn't too far away." Kathy took him by the hand and her voice was at once provocative YOU CAN LEARN and persuasive, as she told him that he must feed and take care of his horse or it would run away. The first hen had gone out of sight, but the others, trailing after, told me which way she had gone. I made a wide circle around them and came in among the brush above the railroad track where I could watch without making a sound. The gobbler and the other hen had stayed back in the fieldnow, and the hen I was watching was going up the road very leisurely, stopping to listen and to call occasionally. Once in a while she made an ex- - cursion into the willows by the road- _ side only to come out again and make a semblance of eating in the grass., I followed slowly keeping her always in sight. 'The earth was green and alive between the banks of white clay, the birds were busy in the willows, and little waves of heat shimmered above the green fields. The hen I had been watching had disappeared in the willows. When I crept quietly up to the place, she was settled on her nest. I selected a good sized rock and laid it by the roadside to mark the spot so I could get the egg later, and started back for the house, fairly bursting with satisfaction. While the bushes still hid the house from view I heard Roger scream. I burst through the willows in time to see him fall and the turkey gobbler start towards him. I had heard a fantastic story somewhere, that turkey gobblers picked children's eyes out because they were bright and shiny. But that couldn't be true! And yet Roger was so small and helpless and that gobbler was big and mean. 319 Why were my feet made of lead and glued to the ground! It was like one of those nightmares where, try as you will, you can make no progress. | Then I heard the screen door slam, saw a little streak of red dress cross the lawn, and in a moment little Kathy was beating the turkey with one of her stick horses. Momentarily the gobbler dropped his feathers and stepped back from the onslaught. In a flash Kathy was between it and her baby brother, standing her ground like a little burst of red fury, and beating harder and harder, as the turkey ruffled his feathers and gobbled menacingThe brave little darling, how did she dare to do it! In another moment I was there with the club I had picked up somewhere on the way, and the old gobbler turned and fled for his life. My knees gave way under me and I sank to the ground. All Kathy's bravado was gone now, and she wilted, sobbing, into my arms. Rogers tears had made mud of the dirt on his face, but when I wiped it away with my apron, his face was all mght. He was a little bruised and mussed up, but mostly just scared. "There, there," I soothed. "Don't you cry, We'll kill that old gobblegobble and eat him for Daddy's birthday.". "When is Daddy's birthday?" Kathy asked. Ae "Day after tomorrow, and Daddy will kill the turkey tonight. We'll have both grandmas and both grandpas up to dinner." She Spirit of Mlotherhood Hazel McAllister: Gn' I have been old enough to become aware of these things, I have heard and — read a great deal of eloquent oratory on the beauty, the dignity, and the glory of motherhood. There have been times in my life, and I daresay in the lives of countless other mothers, also, when they have recalled such words with some questioning. But, fortunately, there is more to being a mother than the menial tasks. With the experiences come wisdom and a tempering of the spirit. Sometimes when we go to bed at night, before sleep comes, the events of the day go in review before us. Some of the day's happenings touch our heartstrings as we remember, with a smile, the child with the bright and vibrant spirit who has given so much sunshine and happiness to all our family circle. We think of another child with his problems and inability to make social adjustment; and we recall, with a twinge of regret, the quick and angry rebuke given in thoughtless haste. We think of all the aches, the hurts, the tears of our children, and the heaviness which comes to the heart is not quickly dispelled. Then comes a realization of our shortcomings, for mothers are only human beings, and, with it, comes a resolve to do better the next day; to comfort, to lead, to guide our children in gentleness and understanding. It has been said by the poets that the bravest battles ever fought cannot be found on the maps of the world, but in the hearts of the mothers of men, and they go on from babyhood to the grave. Most women can accomplish the biological function of bringing children into the world, but to earn the name of mother, the true spirit of unselfish motherhood must become a part of us. No love in all the world equals the love of a true mother. President Joseph F. Smith said that no love in all the world comes nearer to being like the love of God. Knowing this, I think most mothers do not realize how much their influence affects the destiny of their children, an influence which reaches into eternity! Upon Latter-day Saint mothers the obligation is tenfold because of their enlightened understanding of the gospel standards. If all mothers in the world realized and put to use their potential power in influencing for righteousness the lives of their children through love and kindness, persuasion and example, what a different world this would bel Greatness in character comes when human needs are rightfully met and when the human soul may develop secure in love and understanding. > Lealot Ora Lee Parthesius At eighty-odd, and nearly blind, Her hours of joy could lie behind; But, leaning hard upon her cane, She dares the dark and wind and rain As eagerly she goes to meet The future with its bittersweet. Page 320 Trilogy Mirla Greenwood Thayne Yesterday My heart conceived a song one yesterday; I walked alone where beauty beckoned me, And saw a field of iris washed by rain, Rain that left jeweled mist on leaf and tree. "Beauty," I said, "gives birth to words that sing, So I shall write a trilogy of spring." I saw a rainbow arched across the sky, A radiant trellis, an ethereal line, Curved in majesty, and heaven bent, Linking the mortal with the great Divine. A meadow lark in sudden rhapsody, Made haste to lend my song a melody. And soon a gray-veiled earth knew sudden light, Clouds vanished as if by Supreme command, Hills were transformed from mauve to sunset rose, As if an artist could not stay his hand. Here was more beauty than my heart could hold, Would I know peace until my song was told? Today I grasp my pen to give birth to my song, To fashion words into a lyric sweet, When suddenly I hear from corridor The pattering of tiny baby feet. "A story, Mommy, come and read to me." Tonight, a lullaby my song will be. "? "I'm hungry, Mom." The supper hour brings An anxious brood in need of daily bread; My hands must deftly spread my humble board, Reality must sway my dream-filled head. My song can wait. Tomorrow I shall sing, Of wooded hills, and flowers, and rains of spring. My own sweet lyric of just fourteen years Comes to my chair and, kneeling by my side, She chatters on about so many things; I must take time to love, direct, and guide. Another day my trilogy shall find Birth from my heart, transition from my mind. Tomorrow No longer do my halls resound the noise Of baby feet and "bustin'-bronco'' boys, My lyric into sonnethood has grown, And has a house and garden of her own. The laughter and the songs of yesterday Are echoes from the cherished days gone by. But still in spring, the iris bids the rain, A rainbow highway links the earth with sky. Yet when the birds fly homeward on the wing, My heart conceives another song of spring. Page 32] Magazine Subscriptions for 1950 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE general board acknowledges with deep appreciation and gratitude the devotion of Relief Society presidents, Magazine representatives, and subscribers, who have increased the number of subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine to an all-time high of 92,598 in 1950, an increase of 8,547 over 1949. In 1948, following the necessary increase in subscription price, the subscriptions were 78,166; in 1949, they increased to 84,048; and this past year, in December 1950, the subscriptions rose to 92,598... The general board strives to maintain a periodical of high merit particularly suited to Latter-day Saint women, but it recognizes that without the faithful service of the sisters throughout the Church who are called to assist in Magazine work, the circulation would be far less. Since the Magazine contains the lessons studied in Relief Society, it serves not only for general reading interest but is also the means of bringing the educational work into the homes of all its subscribers. It is thus almost indispensable for Relief Society members, and is the means of conveying the lofty ideals and purposes of Relief Society into the homes of non-Latter-day Saint subscribers. The general board considers the calling of Magazine representative to be one of importance. The great increase in subscriptions this past year attests to the devotion to Relief Society and the gospel of sisters who have a responsibility in this work. All who have successfully carried through their assignments are to be commended and congratulated. Gonors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California), 140% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California), 244% Magazine Representative—Marie DeSpain Mission California Mission, 93% Mission Relief Society President—Mary H. Stoddard Mission District South East Arkansas District, Central States Mission, 129% Page 322 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1950 323 Mission Branch Williams Branch (Arizona), California Mission, 250% Magazine Representative—Alice Muirhead Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages South Los Angeles (California) 140 Nancy M. Rupp Provo Stake (Utah) - 02 --136 Flora Buggert Nyssa Stake (Oregon) ----132 Mae A. Boyer Oquirrh Stake (Utah) - 128 lone C. Fuller San Joaquin Stake (California) 122 Wealtha Mendenhall Glendale Stake (California) 120 E|lsie Weber East Los Angeles (California) 119 -Zelma Beck Moapa Stake (Nevada-Arizona) 118 Eunice B. Johnson Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) 114 Clemey Young Missions Achieving Highest Percentages California ~ 2 -.2.2eeecececceeeeeeeeeeeees93 Mary H. Stoddard, President Northern States 22..22.22..22220000000++84 Lucy T'. Anderson, President Central States 22 00..0..0.. Ecceeecceceeeeeeee82 Annie M. Ellsworth, President East Central States 0.00000000..02.02 8o -dna H. Matheson, President Northwestern States — 00.00.02.0 8o Mavil A. McMurrin, President Texas-Louisiana -2.22.2-2:-le-ee008o Leone R. Bowring, President Southern States 0 eee79 Rula H. Choules, President Camadian _..0 2.222222-eeeeeeeneneeeeeeeeeees78 LaPriel R. Eyre, President Western States 0 00.220eecceeeeeeeeeeee78 Mildred M. Dillman, President Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above Big Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Martha W. Paulsen East Long Beach Stake (California) Margaret Bryan East Los Angeles Stake (California) Zelma Beck Glendale Stake (California) Elsie Weber Granite Stake (Utah) 00.2200 Elizabeth W. McLelland Grant Stake (Utah) -220222.2 eeeAlleen F. Keller Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) 002 Clemey Young Liberty Stake (Utah) W002.. Lila B. Pressler Moapa Stake (Nevada-Arizona) Eunice B. Johnson Nyssa Stake (Oregon) --.--------2-------+ Mae A. Boyer Oquirth Stake (Utah) —.. Ee. Ione C. Fuller Pasadena Stake (California) Blanche Calvert Provo'Stake (Utah) ee Flora Buggert San Joaquin Stake (California) - Wealtha Mendenhall Shelley Stake (Idaho) 22.022222.222..--- Genevieve Weatherston South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Valerea Blatter 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Wards and Branches in Stakes and Missions Achieving 200% or Higher Williams Branch (Arizona), California Mission 250% Alice Muirhead South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (Calii,244%..-- Marie DeSpain Galesburg Branch (lIllinois), Northern States Mission = a243 %-.-. Rena P. Custer Oak Grove Branch, Florida Stake (Florida) 243 %..-- lva Williams Manavu Ward, Provo Stake (Utah) 00000.202 240% Flora Buggert Starke Branch, Florida Stake (Florida) 238% - Jenene Manning Vista Branch (California), California Mission 225%..-. Florence Reiney Phoenix Seventh Ward, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) 205% Minerva B. Gillette Miramonte Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (CaliFORIRIA 2 no. Secceeeecrcasenceceeererererereaqeeee ent aoe202% Anna Struhs Nyssa Second Ward, Nyssa Stake (Oregon) 202% Hazel J. Hunter Storrs Ward, North Carbon Stake (Utah) 200% Mildred Brinkerhoff Stakes by Percen tages South Los Angeles 140 Taylor Provo 136 Bannock Nyssa 132 Ogden Oquirrh 128 Union San Joaquin 122 Wasatch Glendale 120 Rigby East Los Angeles 119 Kolob Moapa 118 Long Beach Idaho Falls 114 South Box Elder Big Cottonwood 112 North Jordan Shelley 112 ~Bonneville San Fernando 112 Park Palo Alto 110 Blackfoot Liberty 110 Highland Sharon 108 +=Ensign Nampa 108 Uvada Florida 107. South Bear River Burley 107. Emigration Pasadena — 107. East Rigby South Idaho Falls 106 Farr West East Long Beach 106 Minidoka San Bernardino 105 St. Joseph San Juan 105 San Francisco Rexburg 105 Sacramento Cassia 105 Young Grant 104 North Box Elder South Salt Lake 104 University Phoenix 104 Malad Inglewood 104 Alpine North Idaho "alls 103 Los Angeles West Pocatello 102. ~=Pocatello Granite 102 Chicago Humboldt 101 Gridley Sugar House 101 Mesa Sevier 101 West Jordan 100 100: 100 99 98 97 97 96 95 95 95 94 94 93 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 90 90 89 89 88 88 88 88 88 88 88 87 86 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1950 Cottonwood Oakland Cache Portneuf Southern Arizona Mt. Graham Oneida Seattle Ben Lomond West Utah Alberta Bear Lake San Diego Bear River New York Raft River Twin Falls Denver Timpanogos Weiser Boise Reno Idaho North Rexburg Utah North Davis Weber Parowan Big Horn Richland Hillside South Ogden Wells Berkeley Maricopa Snowflake Lehi Uintah Yellowstone Pioneer Grantsville South Davis Beaver North Weber Palmyra East Jordan Salt Lake Millard Nevada Franklin Lethbridge St. George East Cache Orem East Mill Creek Mt. Jordan East Provo St. Johns American Falls Juarez Tooele San Luis South Carolina Riverside Washington East Riverside Spokane Lake View Juab Carbon Teton Garfield Mount Logan Kanab Star Valley Emery North Sanpete Wayne South Sanpete Mount Ogden Lost River. Duchesne Smithfield Summit Logan Deseret Montpelier Nebo Portland Cedar Temple View Davis Zion Park North Carbon Blaine Lyman South Sevier South Summit North Sevier Morgan Woodruff Roosevelt Benson Panguitch Gunnison Santaquin-Tintic Moon Lake Moroni Oahu 325 Relief Society Enrollment Alberta Stake 625 Aetna 20 Cardston First 56 Cardston Second 69 Cardston Fourth 66 Glenwood 57 Hartley 23 Hill Spring 65 Leavitt 40 Mountain View 63 Taylorville 16 Woolford 17 Del Bonita Branch 9 Jefferson Branch 16 Alpine Stake 706 Alpine 86 American Fork First 69 American Fork Second 77 American Fork Third 70 American Fork Fourth 51 American Fork Fifth 87 American Fork Sixth 71 American Fork Seventh 77 American Fork Eighth 70 Highland 48 American Falls Stake American Falls 46 Rockland 73 Springfield 30 Subscriptions No. 525 18 62 59 58 51 20 52 31 62 16 16 13 17 622 79 63 58 56 58 68 Bs) 77 67 43 41 88 33 Pct. 84 90 111 86 88 89 87 80 78 98 100 94 144 106 88 92 91 75 80 114 78 75 100 96 90 89 121 110 HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Retta W. Barrus Iris Jensen Eleanor Brown Mrs David Wilmott La Jeanne Tanner Eliza Beaves Annie B. Orr Viola Wynder Emma Broadbent Jane S. Payne Rowayne Welsey Margaret Pitcher Grace West Agnes S. Sherman Edna L. Meredith Edra McDaniel Edith B. Jones Alwen Ritchie Rhoda Parker Ann C. Hansen Stella Nelson Leila J. Abel Marie Reimschiissel Leona W. Larson Darcus D. Hyde Connie Sue Nelson Lelia Hartley Lois Lloyd Relief Society Enrollment Beaver Third 103 Milford Second 62 Ben Lomond Stake 676 Lorin Farr 84 North Ogden First 74 Ogden Seventh 75 Ogden Eighth 100 Ogden Twenty-first 90 Ogden Twenty-ninth 70 Benson Stake Cornish 52 Berkeley Stake 685 Berkeley Second 73 East Richmond 50 Napa 52 Pittsburg 50 Richmond 48 Walnut Creek 45 Fairfield Branch 28 Big Cottonwood Stake 769 Big Cottonwood 59 Cottonwood 78 Holladay First 95 Holladay Second 75 Mt. Olympus _ 111 Olympus South 90 South Cottonwood 88 Valley View 96 No. 77 50 569 97 83 68 80 70 61 41 534 76 67 42 40 54 52 30 864 80 78 130 76 112 91 93 126 Subscriptions Pct. 75 81 84 115 112 91 80 78 87 79 78 104 134 81 80 113 116 107 112 136 100 137 101 101 101 106 131 Magazine Representative Kate Bowman Mildred G. Wilcock Maude P. Close Evelyn Poulter Edith V. Judkins Lenora Poorte Asenath Christensen Doris C. Richards Edith Andersen Sarah Leavitt Vera H. Mayhew Mary Langman Elverda Ann Coats Jessie Stubs Margaret Davis Mary Bledsoe Lorene Craner Dorothy Pinkerton Martha W. Paulsen Velma Holladay Frances Remund Roma Lee Sundberg Joanne B. Orton Mary B. Lambourne Olive Beth Mack Elsa O. Fors Maud C. Graham 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 195] Bannock Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace First Grace Second Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Lake Town Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver East Garland Garland First Garland Second Park Valley Snowville Stone Beaver Stake Beaver First Beaver Second 356 525 519 356 434 519 79 100 109 83 77 103 103 105 111 106 Ida Sorenson Rose Hansen June Welch Vera Nielson La Dene Hendricks Ada Williams Norma Mickelson Afton Forman Erline Smith Merl Kingsford 'Millie G. Sprouse Bertha Thornock Ethel Perkins Ruth P. Hansen Emma W. Cheney Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Gertrude R. Price Vidella Booth Hazel Long Rennis A. Larkin Hilda S. Johnson Naomi Oyler Celine Johnson Rhoda Christopherson Letitia Palmer Cora Daley Lela Pratt Zelma S. Muir Vera Ashworth Ireta Morris Winder Big Horn Stake Basin Byron Cody Lovell Penrose Powell Worland Belfry Branch Iona Branch Meeteetse Branch Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Second Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Blackfoot Fifth Groveland Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Thomas Blaine Stake Fairfield Gooding Richfield Sun Valley Branch 836 940 108 105 123 657 101 79 90 90 91 75 100 100 118 80 94 121 94 75 100 90 104 96 82 106 108 77 113 107 101 109 81 105 111 Ruth C. Bailey Elma S. Johnson Mrs. Scott H. Smith Margaret Winzenreid Gwendolyn S. Robertson Christina Norton Tilda Wasden Gwen Miller Daisy Nissen Mary Youst Maggie Beal Alma Bennion Ellen Van Moorlehem Tressa Higgensen Floretta McCurdy Verda Clark Margaret Lamprecht Rose James Sarah Chapman Gladys Belnap Sarah E. Cammack Tacy Winmill Cassie Brown Donna Bischoff Gertrude Williams HONOR ROLL Blanche V. Naser Myrtle Nielsen Charlotte Reed Ellen M. Allen 327 Relief Society Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fifth Meridian Mtn. Home Branch Bonneville Stake Bonneville Douglas Garden Park Monument Park Thirty-third Yale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth Enrollment 561 71 a7 100 46 82 15 847 100 124 Diz 113 129 161 108 603 ef 70 68 76 45 85 34 46 29 62 51 582 82 117 Subscriptions No. 454 77 52 88 41 69 12 802% 92 95 114 119 150 495 65 97 Pct. 81 108 91 88 89 84 80 95 92 76 102 105 116 76 102 107 149 109 93 92 144 98 124 102 103 100 100 85 79 83 Magazine Representative Lydia Emma Cordon Leota Allen Clara H. Williams Lorraine Hatch Alice Francis Mable Roylance Estella M. Hall Rhoda Carter Hannah Allen Gweneth Woolsey Laura H. Clinger Nellie Pinney Harriet Worthington Ila C. Norton Rhoda Carter Jane R. Robinson Norma Curtis Ella B. Boatman Mary E. Tracy Louise Stoker Zelma Whittle Hattie L. Richins Ellen C. Mitchell Gladys M. Johnson Gertrude Durfee Ione Church Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Jessie Bouwhuis Enrollment Murray Fifth 60 South Grant 65 Davis Stake Centerville Second 45 Kaysville First 83 Denver Stake 454 Cheyenne 61 Crestmore 53 Denver First 69 Denver Second "44 Englewood §5 Laramie 48 Fort Collins Branch 36 Deseret Stake Delta Second 77 Lynndyl 30 Callao Branch 7 Duchesne Stake Arcadia 33 Bridgeland 27 Hanna 20 East Cache Stake Logan Fifth 80 Logan Tenth 114 Relief Society North Logan 71 East Jordan Stake 610 East Midvale Second 53 Garden View 90 No. 45 69 38 66% 370 54 40 71 38 55 46 28 458 57 90 Subscriptions Pct. Ms) 106 84 80 81 89 75 103 86 100 96 78 90 103 100 100 104 75 99 76 o2 75 108 100 Magazine Representative Jean Erickson Fawn S. Noren La Vaun Duncan Serena O. Warner Ilah K. Smith Edith M. Scott Ida Clark Bernice Brown Lilly B. Williams Ilah K. Smith Rose Eads Alice Mecham Waiora Wallace Alpha Nielson Inez Tripp Ora Holgate Letta Meyer Pearl Turnbow Abby G. Jenson Jane M. Niederhauser Lenore B. Larsen Vida W. Fowles Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Logan Ninth 108 Logan Fifteenth 81 Logan Sixteenth 98 Logan Seventeenth 96 Carbon Stake Hiawatha 65 Price First 67 Dragerton Branch 54 Cassia Stake 197 Basin 17 Marion 26 Oakley First 48 Oakley Second Oakley Third 26 Chicago Stake 386 Milwaukee: 59 North Shore, 47 Aurora Branch 10 Batavia Branch 6 Milwaukee So. Branch 13 South Shore Branch 22 West Suburban Branch 41 Cottonwood Stake 850 Grant 117 Mill Creek First 68 Mill Creek Second 66 Murray First 114 Murray Second 56 Murray Third 135 Murray Fourth 45 66 91 102 206 729 117 117 85 81 93 88 78 152 81 105 135 88 123 119 115 88 115 119 130 100 131 95 85 86 80 82 105 103 91 87 133 Beda Crafts Blanch Rogers Genevieve B. Bradley Jeanette Bergerner Sadie Frandsen Anna May Branch Vada Anderson Jane R. Hale Donna Martin Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Irene B. Sutton Avera C. Homer Vivienne Hart Clara M. Force Elinor Woolcott Margaret Bjorklund Hertha Rathke Amy M. Landeck Luella Logan Mildred Bailey Blanche S. Bradford Ethel Park Ada Toone Maude Ballard Thelma McCleery Betty Jean Hausknecht Martha Margetts Midvale Second 85 Union Second 79 E. Long Beach Stake 476 Bellflower 86 Fullerton 70 Garden Grove 28 Huntington Beach 20 Lakewood 31 Long Beach Third 80 Long Beach Fifth 61 Norwalk 41 Santa Ana 59 E. Los Angeles Stake 479 Alhambra 7 Belvedere a7 Eastmont 74 Mission Park 73 Montebello 70 Rosemead 42 Whittier 66 East Mill Creek Stake Cummings 109 Grand View 72 Imperial 77 Kenwood 49 East Provo Stake Bonneville 81 Provo Ninth 52 Provo Twelfth 45 Provo Thirteenth, 54 74 85 503 97 70 32 23 34 85 61 42 59 569 95 103 82 76 81 53 79 84 82 70 44 63 60 37 52 108 106 113 100 114 115 110 106 100 102 100 119 123 134 111 104 116 126 120 114 Mary E. Jenkins Beth Neilsen Margaret Bryan Susie Elsmore Gertrude Hemperly Elvira Bollschweiler Murl Fullmer Yvonne Eynon Thelma Taylor May Robbins Fern S. Anderson Fannie Y. Lundquest Zelma Beck Martha J. Dreiser Mrs. E. L. Milligan Norine Kaller Mildred Hatch Nell Maiben Gwen Boyd Amy Hyndman Leoan Monroe Sarah Pearson Gladys E. Benson Helen M. Bateman Vontella B. Farr Norma B. Nelson Ardell W. Andreason Ruby W. Hawkins HONOR ROLL 329 Relief Society East Rigby Stake Clark Garfield Labelle Lorenzo Milo Palisade Rigby Second Ririe First Ririe Second East Riverside Stake Fifteenth Twenty-eighth Emery Stake Castle Dale Clawson Emery _ Ferron Emigration Stake Twenty-first — Twenty-seventh Enrollment 517 43 32 38 27 52 36 53 56 68 141 121 99 16 96 108° 378 98 63 East Twenty-seventh 78 Federal Heights Ensign Stake North Eighteenth South Eighteenth North Twentieth South Twentieth East Ensign West Ensign 59 860 163 215 128 125 95 134 No. 471 37 38 31 21 52 ov 40 64 80 106 106 76 12 77 93 345 79 89 76 51 791 173 169 102 116. 134 Subscriptions Pet. 91 86 119 82 78 100 103 75 114 118 75 88 77 75 80 107 100 100 Magazine Representative Dale Burtenshaw Velma Morgan Anna S. Christensen Inez McNeil Wilda Pabst Genevieve Palmer Helma Oakden Dortha Radford Adelia Clark Alice Grover Clarissa Winsness Eleanor Smith Bertrude Winters Jane Larsen Eudean Olsen Deborah Huntsman Helen B. Fleming Sallie S. Keate C Florence E. Murphy Viola L. Walton Ruth Burke Charlotte W. Spen- | cer Susanna F. S. Kruys Mary W. Rich Cleo Gayle Parrott Norma Burt Susie C. Winward Florence S. Simmons Relief Society Glendale West Highland Park La Crescenta Sunset Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Welle Grant Stake Hillcrest Lorraine Smith Smith West Springview, Wandamere Grantsville Stake Grantsville Second Wendover Gridley Stake Chico Gridley Oroville Yuba City Paradise Branch Enrollment 96 55 75 86 663 78 73 144 136 126 106 493 71 100 53 74 105 90 295 104 38 338 45 120 33 87 20 Subscriptions No. 125 78 92 100 675 79 82 146 136 126 106 513 76 104 53 74 110 96 225 114 36 296 52 90 35 83 20 Pet. 130 142 123 116 102 101 OZ, 101 100 100 100 104 107 104 100 100 105 107 76 110 95 88 116 75 106 95 100 Magazine Representative Josie Halliday Henrietta Atkinson Alice Wilson Lucille Switzer Elizabeth W. McLelland Maude Sevy Clara Love Sentella N. Pace Catherine M. Wiseman Emma E. Armstrong Stella Rhoads Alleen F. Keller Lillian F. Price Antonia Zimmerman Vivian Rice _ LaPreal B. Ames Elsie R. Whittaker Iva Dell Holmberg Bess W. Judd Eva I. Worthington Carol S. Duke Violet. Gray Dorothy Robb Katie Cameron Violet Gray Mabel Hayter Pearl Smith 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Farr West Stake Farr West Harrisville Lomond View Marriott Mound Fort Plain City Slaterville Florida Stake Axson Jacksonville Lake City Palatka Springfield Waycross Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Oak Grove Branch Sanderson Branch Starke Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Franklin Mapleton Preston Second Garfield Stake Antimony Circleville Kingston Glendale Stake Elysian Park Garvanza Glendale East 520 113 348 101 583 120 474 60 65 59 39 83 87 36 S73 34 94 29 39 50 26 26 20 17 19 19 572 60 83 27 86 43 @ 23 697 91 81 130 91 87 97 111 89 106 77 113 107 103 93 126 98 79 118 118 167 243 112 238 75 82 77 100 109 91 110 105 120 110 119 108 Irene M. Crowther Cora A. Petersen Alice E. Hellewell Laura J. Olsen Charlotte S. Blair Phyllis Hufstetler Alminda L. Johnson Amelia Holley Maude G. Hawkins Margaret Mizell Ethel Atkinson Ora Lee Milton Hilda Anderson Camillus McRae Arzella Jardon Elizabeth Jammes Doris D. McCall Iva Williams Mattie D. Stringer Jenene Manning Gladys Bosen Bertha N. Cole Laura Atkinson Cora Knapp Chloe C. Peterson Jane Black Etta F. Haycock Gail Coates Elsie Weber Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Elizabeth Brower Gunnison Stake Axtell Highland Stake Crystal Heights Park Avenue Parleys Rosslyn Heights Stratford Hillside Stake Beacon Colonial Hills Edgehill Mountain View South Edgehill Wasatch Humboldt Stake Carlin Elko Wells Winnemucca Rowland Branch Ruby Valley Branch Hyrum Stake Hyrum First Hyrum Second Millville Paradise Wellsville First 24 586 43 79 42 85 168 945 64 135 161 88 123 147 147 168 740 105 121 123 126 149 75 93 116 109 133 87 100 78 75 78 75 7 100 86 109 113 100 84 133 100 150 81 83 96 78 76 Rhoda Jensen Ella E. Andrus Gladys Stutz Naomi Symkoviak Maude Neely Mildred Hicken Alda Anderson HONOR ROLL Erma B. Williams Echo Bean Ruby Turpin Ruth W. Shupe Ella J. Keddington Bernice Stevenson Malaone Mumford Charlotte S. Ferguson Charlotte S. Ferguson Nadine Daly — Margaret E. Dahl Mary Cowan Bertie Hyde Vela Hawkins Mary Larson Mrs. J. Lowell Anderson Merle Jenson Agnes Cook Ethel Jones 331 Relief Society Idaho Stake Bancroft Hatch Kelly-Toponce Lund Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Ninth Iona Lincoln Inglewood Stake Brentwood Centinella La Cienega Lennox Mar Vista Redondo Torrance Westchester Westdale Juab Stake Nephi First Nephi Third Nephi Fourth Juarez Stake Dublan Juarez Enrollment 365 85 10 32 20 463 146 76 73 107 ol 809 94 78 99 54 68 54 | 24 29 101 101 72 40 63 Subscriptions No. 294 105 12 31 19 528% 146 90 76 151% 65 838 147 63 100 80 85 69 51 38 49 78 78 55 39 55 Pet. 81 124 120 97 95 114 100 118 104 142 107 104 156 81 101 148 125 128 100 158 169 77 77 76 98 87 ''Magazine Representative Jennie S. Gilbert Elnora Ruger Elizabeth Holbrook Margaret Hebdon Edna Darlington Clemey Young Lydia M. Clark Estelle Salisbury Edna Rhoades Josie Scorsbey Amy Hansen Maurine B. Campbell Frances D. Kolarik Afton Broberg. Eva L. Quigley Josephine K. Bullock Sylvia Petersen Ruby Haddon Hortense B. Smith Elaine Crocker Agnes M. Nelson Pearl Wilson May B. Petty Joy Howell Melvina Jones Maude J. Whetten Relief Society Taber Second Brooks Branch Champion Branch Liberty Stake North Second South Second Third Eighth Ninth Harvard Liberty Logan Stake Logan Fourteenth College - Young Long Beach Stake Compton First Compton Second Long Beach Second Long Beach Fourth Lynwood San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Adams Beverly Hills Hollywood La Brae Enrollment 59 15 12 672 78 64 75 131 78 128 118 76 53 32 600 70 67 72 68 42 58 3) 563 79 83 124 63 No. 61 12 15 739 84 65 80 151 80 129 150 58 44 | 576 84 65 75 72 61 47 76 495 77 101 127 51 Subscriptions Pet. 103 80 125 110 108 102 107 115 103 101 127 76 83 84 96 120 97 104 106 145 81 101 88 87 122 102 81 Magazine Representative Lucille Valgardson Deleen Eveson Carolyne Davies Lila B. Pressler Amelia Marsh May Thomsen Rena Boyle Margaret Vuyk Myrtle Robison Ann H. Peery Alice Russell Vernetta Earl Nettie Abrams Wanda Olsen Ethel Spongberg Mildred Y. Moon Rebecca Bate Geraldine Klaeger Matilda Halsey Louise F. Harris Lila Lindergren Margaret M. Smith Rebecca Rowe Velma Shirley Mrs. J. Wallace Frame Charlotte O'Connor Edna Sant 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Kanab Stake Glendale Moccasin Mt. Carmel Orderville Kolob Stake Mapleton Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fourth Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Springville Ninth Lake View Stake Lake View Riverdale Roy Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Second Lehi Third Lehi Fourth Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Calgary First Calgary Second Claresholm Lethbridge First Orton Picture Butte Stavely 48 12 21 76 725 84 91 67 75 70 80 520 112 100 37 20 '16 65 701 93 141 54 58 58 89 62 63 63 67 67 403 96 67 77 67 80 41 51 29 73 15 36 13 77 167 76 86 97 111 155 81 77 83 111 103 100 82 105 79 78 86 80 86 75 80 80 77 83 104 83 82 108 Pearl Sarah E. Black Nora M. Heaton Mina Gardner Hester P. Heaton Mary W. Clegg Ardilla Perry Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Ellen Giles Rose Roylance Belle W. Childs Sara R. Hyde Ellen Larson Lyma Cook Champneys Ivy M. Schofield Hazel May Bone Hazel M. Bone Edna S. Loveridge Vina M. Wilcox Ada Allred Alice Stice Helen Faulkner Anne Merkley Luella Rice Mabel Pizzey La Von Orr Letty Hunt Ida L. Rodgers Lost River Stake Challis Leslie Moore Salmon First Lyman Stake Rock Springs First Superior Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook Malad First Malad Second Pleasant View Portage St. John Maricopa Stake Mesa First Mesa Fourth Mesa Sixth Mesa Tenth Pine Tempe Mesa Stake Alma Chandler Gilbert Mesa Second Mesa Fifth Mesa Seventh Queen Creek 19 33 38 42 50 31 588 R/ 13 98 126 34 61 45 613 127 87 60 48 16 76 835 79 82 38 lZ8 156 138 27 476 57 725 165, 113 of 107 127 119 87 81 '105 106 119 Mabel Howel Ruth T. Olsen Clara E. Bingham Lucy Guyaz Elizabeth Bateman Martha Rock Mary B. Bush Ruby H. Lundberg Helen Smith Pearl W. Thomas Beth B. Facer Beth C. Davis Maude R. Harris Anna Lyle Jones Lola O. Turley Caroline J. Warner Verna McDonald Mathonia Magnussen Thora Hamblin Celeste Patterson Elaine LeBaron Lula L. Allen Lola White Elda H. Whetten Jewel Clement Violet Whipple Rachel Nichols Mary E. Shane Martha Tenney HONOR ROLL 333 Relief Society Casa Grande Branch Coolidge Branch Hayden Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore First Fillmore Second Flowell Kanosh Meadow Minidoka Stake Emerson Hazelton Paul Rupert First Rupert Second Rupert Third Moapa Stake - Boulder City Bunkerville Charleston Henderson Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Las Vegas Third Littlefield Logandale Mesquite Overton Davis Dam Branch Enrollment 11 35 23 25 645 81 75 33 93 70 471 24 40 45 42 96 53 690 93 ES) 83 23 24 96 46 69 12 54 72 63 20 No. 10 39 20 21 483 75 61 33 Za - 54 429} 26 60 58 45 89 41% 815 96 38 101 36 38 109 71 77 13 Od) 73 83 23 Subscriptions Pet. 91 111 87 84 75 93 81 100 76 77 91 108 150 129 107 93 78 118 103 109 12 157 158 114 154 112 108 106 101 132 115 Magazine Representative Irene Hurbert Rhoda Langford Lettie Pratt Josephine Farley Clara H. Frampton Rachel B. Warner Claris Peterson Rose Christensen Ruth Paxton Flora Bushnell Clarinda Green Louie Mae Mecham Delila Wickham Veta Platts Maybelle Stevensen Emma Garrett Eva Lowder Eunice B. Johnson Greta Rosebaum Vera Waite Lois Leavitte Lucille L. Tweedie Minnie E. Stowell Una McDonald Lila Leavitt Lucille Pein Vinda Reber Amy Wells Nelda Houston Effie Tobler Geraldine L. Dean Enrollment Relief Society Providence Second 87 River Heights 66 Mount Ogden Stake Ogden Twenty-third 91 Ogden Thirty-third 130 ' Highland 93 Nampa Stake 508 Caldwell 80 Homedale 59 Kuna 39 Marsing 30 Melba 40 Nampa First 60 Nampa Second 75 Nampa Third 55 Nampa Fourth — 54 Star Branch 16 Nebo Stake Park 88 Payson West 62 Spring Lake 56 Nevada Stake Ely 122 Lund 50 Ruth -29 Garrison Branch 22 New York Stake 208 East Orange 42 Manhattan 38 Brooklyn Branch 14 66 54 91 110 C 77 549 91 61 37. 25° 39 51 75 65 84 2M 70 65 43 334 250 100 44. 31 21 173 41 29 20 Subscriptions No. — Pet. 76 82 100 85 83 108 114 103 95 83 98 85 100 118 156 I 80 105 77 75 82 88 107 95 83 98 76 143 Magazine Representative Eunice Clawson Rose Hansen Edith Larson Karen Straw Rita Williamson Sarah E. Squires Theodocia Garner Mary Leavitt Ida Hatch Ruth Davis Rita Bradshaw Blanche Woolard Mrs. Alvin Hunter Nilate A. Adams Hannah Castaagneto Emily Kent Ethel T. Hiatt Laurel Loveless Maxine Moore Maysie Sinfield Susan A. Mulliner Edith Reid Maud Mifflin Agnes Dearden Viola W. Fulton Erika K. Anderson Margurite Bogardus Viola W. Fulton 334 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Montpelier Stake Bern Cokeville Geneva Montpelier First Raymond Wardboro Moon Lake Stake Boneta Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan Slide Mt. Graham Stake Duncan El Paso Second 25 43 30 Fs) 14 26 24 13 63 17 674 52 Ww El Paso Upper Valley 22 Layton Lordsburg Safford Solomonville Virden Gila Branch Las Cruces Branch Lebanon Branch Mt. Jordan Stake Crescent Draper First Draper Second Mount Logan Stake Logan Thirteenth 158 26 119 25 48 14 9 17 53 90 99 82 19 34 a hy | 15 22 21 10 56 14 571 42 57 18 127 25 116 20 50 V4 11 13 43 76 104 64 76 79 103 78 107 85 88 7a 89 82 85 81 100 82 83 96 97 80 104 86 122 76 81 84 105 78 Myrtle Steckler Shirley Teichert Barbara Tueller Peg Perkins Eleaner Saxton Genevieve Kunz Elda Pearson Faye London Julia Carrigan Bernice Redden Myrtle Tenney Jennie Johnson Ruby S. Brown Caroline B. McDonald Ella Farley Grace Richens Itha Booth Annie B. Larson Emma J. Lines Carrie Lee Verona R. Carbine Nina Uptain Ellen Mickelsen Alice W. Stay Loe E. Gordan Emily Anderson Oceanside Branch No. Box Elder Stake 577 Bear River Brigham Third Brigham Fourth Brigham Seventh Brigham Eighth Corinne Harper Honeyville North Carbon Stake Helper Storrs North Davis Stake Clearfield First Clearfield Second Layton First Layton Second Layton Third Layton Fourth Syracuse az 76 74 94 60 104 88 22 59 _ 82 18 790 112 56 58 76 101 91 107 No. Idaho Falls Stake 586 Coltman Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh Osgood Ucon North Jordan Stake Bennion 51 114 97 150 64 110 554 73 18 515 72 77 80 62 85 71 21 47 64 36 633 101 54 46 58 77 102 80 606 61 104 119 153 62 107 526 73 82 89 95 104 85 103 82 81 95 80 78 200 80 90 96 79 76 76 luz 75 103 120 91 123 102 97 97 95 100 Anne Koenig: Christina N. Bott Lorena Waddoups Fern H. Channell Geneva F. Wright La Vina S. Hansen Lavina C. Clark Meltrude A. Nelson Edith Baty Sylvia G. Hunsaker Estella Gale Mildred Brinkerhoff Grace R. Forbes Ella Smith Mary Banz Dorsey Hodgson Bessie Stimpson Vera A. Adams Grace R. Forbes Alice Anderson Barbara C. Dahlstrom Marion Judd Ruth Anderson Anna Christofferson Emma Jensen Lucille Sorensen Elva Andrus Mable G. Morgan Blanche J. Parker HONOR ROLL 335 Relief Society Enrollment Granger First Granger Second Redwood Taylorsville Kearns Branch North Rexburg Stake Hibbard Newdale Plano Sugar Teton North Sanpete Stake Milburn Mt. Pleasant South Mountainville Spring City North Sevier Stake Aurora North Weber Stake Ogden Third Ogden Tenth Ogden Sixteenth. Taylor Warren West Weber Nyssa Stake Nyssa First Nyssa Second Ontario 133 100 46 79 13 128 92 592 80 101 116 62 49: 77 319 42 52 90 No. 133 100 46 81 12 519 57 32 63 129 92 14 80 74 96 69 448. 63 86 89 Subscriptions Pet. 100 100 100 103 133 81 84 84 iy 81 88 108 81 92 75 is 76 79 85 a7 87 76 79 132 162 202 104 Magazine Representative Rosalma Van Briskirk Marjorie E. Coats Louisa Skog Loretta Foote Joy Baird Lucy R. Furness Ardella Johnson Zola Allen Arvilla Parkinson Mary Thomson Alzina' Pincock Leonne Johnson Lucille R. Seely Vera Shelley Bergetta Jensen Wilma Mason Alta M. Goble Martha M. Burnett Eliza M. Kerr Armenta S. Malan Melba P. Favero Libbie Nielsen Rena McLean Mae A. Boyer Lynette Anderson Hazel J. Hunter Myrtle Wilburn Relief Society Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Geneva Orem First Sharon Windsor Palmyra Stake Lake Shore Leland Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Birdseye Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park Redwood City San Jose San Mateo Willow Glen Park Stake First Tenth Thirty-first Enrollment 15 90 123 67 91 37 35 95 843 777 No. 22 125% 144 113 84 35 29 la 635 72 215 41 80 78 102 15 429 49 45 69 49 90 45 729 84 77 109 Subscriptions Pet. 147 139 117 169 92 95 83 76 Magazine Representative Hazel Bertoch Izella Jeppson Elaine W. Evans Florence Reid Elizabeth Guyman Eliza B. Anderson Ethel Dickey Blanche Nielson Mrs. Frank Sorensen | Bernice Rigtrup Mary B. Stark Lois Nash Lavina Thompson Lucy L. Hill Hazel J. Christiansen Rachel Spencer Sarah Avery Iris Pickering Eliza Horsfield Aileen Weaver Maud L. West Helen Bredding Rasmine Jensen Lillie S. Schricker Clara Dittman Lamecia Pierce Sarah E. Harmon 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Owyhee Parma Vale Oakland Stake Alameda Elmhurst Hayward Maxwell Park San Leandro Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirtieth Ogden Thirty-first Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glendale Oxford Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Riverdale Treasureton Oquirrh Stake Garfield 762 147 128 105 660 390 52 29 7a 490 67 lu 77 84 52 760 36 61 24 150. 83 107 126 74 99 559 23 79 lS 22 69 82 74 39 22 499% 95 104 126 116 85 116 117 95 114 ih 100 97 88 104 102 106 84 129 96 94 85 88 103 100 81 100 91. 77 85 105 128 100 Edna Hartley L. Bartshe Avis Belnap Pearl Meine LaVina H. McRae Irene Dutson Della Eck Edna Mitchell Agnes M. Nelson Chloe F. Summerill Katherine Stallings Edris Knapp Florence Hill Violet M. Perkins Essie Auffhammer Ramona P. Snow Nanna Christiansen Madge Crawford Ada Egginton Kenna Bergeson Ada Bell Irene Schwartz Eulalia W. Larsen Clara Olson Amy S. Kern Lizzie Weaver Flossie Stokes Barbara S. Meek (Pres.) Vera C. Atkinson Ione C. Fuller Erma Smith Duncan Emigration Princeton Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Parowan East Parowan West Summit Pasadena Stake Baldwin Park East Pasadena El Monte Las Flores Monrovia North El Monte Pasadena South Pasadena Phoenix Stake Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fifth Phoenix Sixth Phoenix Seventh Scottsdale Sunnyslope Buckeye Branch Pioneer Stake Thirty-second 683 90 84 667 110% 709 102 107 509 105 123 77 104 79 92 86 78 100 107 123 111 103 102 101 105 104 114 104 111 118 127 106 121 79 205 117 100 85 76 77 Winifred Poulter LaVern Hanks Florence E. Kirk Gertrude M. Hobson Betty M. Sorenson Cora B. Murie Minnie L. Orton Cora M. Rowley Lucy F. Green Blanche Calvert Ardella Hackford Mabrye Phillips Louise Mariger Sydona Raleigh Letitia Meyers Sarah Anderson (Pres.) Clara Toone Mamie Gerwin HONOR ROLL Zola Stapley Julia S. Kremer Claradell S. Dewitt Nancy Lu Harbison Rintha Naylor Harriet F. Johnson Ruby D. Biggs Minerva B. Gillette Cornelia Worthan Lydia Webb Barbara McElImury Mary Jacobs Edith Murray 337 Relief Society Edison Glendale Park Jordan Park Poplar Grove Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Inkom Pocatello Second Pocatello Fourth Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Fourteenth Portland Stake Colonial Heights Laurelhurst Portneuf Stake Arimo, Cambridge Garden Creek Marsh Center McCammon Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Enrollment 82 34 78 55 774 20 88 64. 80 90 87 75 68 82 84 50 458 60 23 25 21 79 34 36 422 96 101 79 82 64 No. 75 46 105 45 680 07 67 66 67 84 89 62 68 82 75 43 389 65 18 27 22 90 29 33 575 230 101 80 88 76 Subscriptions Pet. 91 135 135 82 88 85 76 103 84 93 102 83 100 100 89 86 85 108 78 108 105 114 —85 92 136 240 100 101 107 119 Magazine Representative Ida H. Deters Dena Lund Mary Jacobs Margaret Crockett Alta Swallow Verna Green Mrs. W. H. Hall Helga Pugmire Bertha Pratt Eva Barrow Mae Brown Gwen Davis Erma McCurdy Cora Hartvirgsen Delores Zabelle Pearl Batman Ada L. Parris Merle C. Tippets Vella Bloxham Ethel Henderson Gertrude Parris Wynona M. Glass Marie Henderson Marion Brady Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Hansenia H. Burr Fanny S. Whimpey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Relief Society Enrollment Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton | Beaver Creek Branch Riverside Stake Riverside Rosedale Roosevelt Stake Ballard | Bennett White Rocks Sacramento Stake Carmichael Homestead Roseville Sacramento Sutter Placerville Branch Woodland Branch St. George Stake Gunlock Ivins Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George First St. George Fourth St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Veyo 66 68 48 35 73 ae) 46 14 19 531 — 66 93 48 107 65 9 30 19 15 6 13 70 59 60 84 11 No. 66 56 60 30 74 23 45 11 17 477 61 97 57 94 68 10 30 Subscriptions Pet. 100 82 125 86 101 82 98 79 89 90 92 104 119 88 105 111 100 121 80 100 77 79 105 75 95 100 Magazine Representative Ann Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Alta Fern Doschades Hillevi Daniels Harriet Baril Emma Clark Joyce Bolton Pearl Walkup Martha Gattiker Myrtle Bolles Minnie Du Frain Nida B. Morey Margherita Singleton La Vernia B. Lewis. Goldy T. Baker Vendla Gordon Maybell Hunt Martha E. Hafen Rebecca Bundy Maude Gardner Edna Cunningham Eunice Blazzard Emily Schmutz Emma C. Abbott Harriet B. Chadburn 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Raft River Stake Malta Moulton Yost Sublet Branch Reno Stake Reno Sparks Westwood Carson City Branch Portola Branch Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Richland Stake Pasco-Kennewick Toppenish Walla Walla Hermiston Branch Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan First Menan Second Rigby First 184 54 11 17 10 429 76 99 30 13 23 601 m7 60 64 146 70 143 294 28 Ze 47 = 15 695 61 54 28 145 64 R 81 153 62 10 13 13 347 61 114 27 12 20 629% 105 55% 62 160 75 144 231 29 28° 39 19 675 62 50 38 104 69 75 65 83 115 91 76 130 81 80 115 90 92 87 105 136 93 97 110 107 101 79 104 127 83 127 97 102 93 136 90 108 100 80 Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Julia H. Clark Viola Tracey Annie Adams Louise Lindsay Bell Zella Webb Fern C. Ward Mary A. Young Lura Jones Leah Williams Beth S. Porter Norah Grover Lila Huffaker Jessie Moulton Maud Taylor Wanda Hunziker 'Zell Grover Lillian M. Patterson Maud Allphin Georgiana D. Willard Irene D. Harrison Melba Black Sara Simmons Jeannette Browning Ruby Pinnock Sarah E. Lambert Dora Armstrong Emily Hart Erma Gunderson Fern H. Lake St. Johns Stake Alpine Eagar Luna Nutrioso Vernon Gallup Branch St. Joseph Stake Bryce Central Eden Ft. Thomas Globe Miami Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Nineteenth Twenty-second Twenty-third Capitol Hill 22 118 26 12 24 20 514 16 58 20 30 52 52 120 166 885 83 106 37 93 San Bernardino Stake 547 Arlington Colton Fontana Ontario Pomona Redlands Riverside San Bernardino First San Bernardino Second Yucaipa 46 46 31 56 66 30 81 63 67 19 22 93 25 10 19 22 466 18 56 17 a7 43 45 128 132 663 71 106 60 80 576 42 60 42 65 70 31 82 64 71 23 100 79 96 83 79 110 91 113 97 85 90 83 87 107 80 75 86 100 162 86 105 91 130 135 116 106 103 101 102 106 121 Jessie Jepson Agness M. Lund Clara B. Laney Laura Slade Georgia Austin Ruth A. Sherman HONOR ROLL Nira P. Lee Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Viola Colvin Hazel Bryce Vera Larson Ella Sims Zela McBride Sarah Hales Clara Neeley Marie M. Hardwick Alma Laxman Clara Overson Mary L. Fawcett Evelyn W. Heath Pearl Hudkins Cora S. Anderson Zella Cassels Ivie Thompson Mabel Childers Elsie S. Hansen Melba O. Oakes Laura Lee Hilliker Betty E. Trent Sible Reagan 339 Relief Society San Diego Stake Hillcrest La Mesa North Park Ocean Beach Valencia Park Enrollment 544 61 57 75 30 67 San Fernando Stake 435 Burbank North Hollywood Reseda San Fernando Sherman Oaks Van Nuys Newhall Branch 74 84 48 33 43 50 9 San Francisco Stake 353 Balboa Mission Sunset San Joaquin Stake Modesto Oakdale Stockton Tracy Turlock Yosemite Brentwood Branch Ione Branch Lodi Branch Manteca Branch 68 82 101 312 71 24 56 23 39 42 16 17 9 15 Subscriptions No. 457 75 73 63 39 64 487 75 130 92 Pet. 84 123 128 84 130 96 112 101 155 192 100 100 104 78 90 76 109 102 122 107 129 114 130 100 145 150 135 156 127 Magazine Representative Ava S. Jones Sarah Bodily Della Campbell Josephine Gallacher Billie Pace Longson Joanne R. Zeugschmidt Helen Yaple Jane Reynolds Elizabeth Jacobs Vera Snow Irene Jardine Zilpha Nowlin Eva Smith Jennie Rollins Florence M. Fitzgerald:: Harriet Hart Gladys W. Parker Florence Phillips Wealtha Mendenhall Iva H. Allen Pearl Ward Elva Wolfenbarger Sarah S. Dana Mary U. Tiffany Ella J. Hart Bernice Geddes Faye Case Wilma McCombs Zella Brokaw Relief Society Richfield Fourth Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Edgemont Hill Crest -Lake View Lincoln Oak Hills Pleasant View. Timpanogos Shelley Stake C Basalt Firth Goshen Jameston Kimball _ Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Smithfield Second Snowflake Stake Clay Springs Heber Joseph City Lakeside Enrollment 112 39 47 418 60 68 41 38 54 66 34 563 54 58 72 38 19 93 82 61 38 Ss 86 93 Subscriptions No. 112 51 45 452 61 87 34 67 56 71 38 632 54 101 73 43 28 94 84 62 36 57 74 75 505 26 62 63 46 Pet. 100 131 96 108 102 128 83 176 104 108 112 112 100 174 101 113 147 101 102 102 109 108 86 81 78. 108 94 102 118 Magazine 'Representative Naomi P. Foisy Emily M. Nebeker Jennie Cowley Edna M. Hansen Florence G. Dalton Norma Dee Jameson Margaret R. Taylor Anna Millet Madge McKell Ruth C. Meldrum Amanda Biglow Genevieve Weatherston Thelma Hoskins N. Florence Hanny Zelma McBride Viola Hillman Florence Gifford Viola Peterson Edith Butler Arita Van Eps Pearl Clark Edna H. Kotter Jessie Littledike Donna Gordon Ida S. Church Ruby Hancock Ruth S. Porter Gladys McLaws Anna H. Kay 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 San Juan Stake Blanding Grayson Moab Monticello Lockerby Branch San Luis Stake Alamosa Richfield Morgan Branch 365 93 93 74 93 12 68 68 29 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Elberta Branch Seattle Stake Bellingham Everett Port Orchard Renton Shelton Tacoma Central Seattle First Seattle Second Seattle Third Seattle Fourth Seattle Fifth Seattle Sixth Arlington Branch Sevier Stake Greenwich Koosharem Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third 16 627 36 26 20 49 15 75 77 43 38 16 23 16 7 383 76 57 31 15 530 4] 34 20 38 24 65 59 51 37 23 18 12 105 124 Ruth J. Nielson Neta W. Young Freda Hunt Naomi Somerville Amy S. Black Maxine Johnson ny Opal McDaniel Hazel Westbrook Grace Price Harriet E. Barney Chelta D. Brown Ella M. Petrie Rhoda McCarroll Myra Ennis Mabel McKilrath Bernadene Rannine Devone Johnson Lucile G. Henrie Hilda A. Shomaker Drusilla H. Sorensen Ann Bradshaw Ethel May Simms Barbara Hawks Una Carlson Faye Curtis Mildred Nielsen Emma R. Hatch Myrtle C. Brown Jane Y. Pollett Laura Wilson Linden 6 Snowflake 130 Winslow 63 Woodruff 35 So. Bear River Stake 490 Elwood 41 Penrose 15 Tremonton First 133 Tremonton Second 80 Tremonton Third 63 Promontory Branch 15 So. Box Elder Stake 599 Brigham First 105 Brigham Second 102 Brigham Fifth 97 Brigham Sixth 94 Mantua 51 Perry 43 Willard 107 South Carolina Stake Augusta 13 Charleston 36 Columbia 44 Gaffney 24 Spartanburg 21 Sumpter Branch 12 Winnsboro Branch 11 South Davis Stake 856 Bountiful First 47 Bountiful Third 90 Bountiful Sixth 90 7 101 48 20 448 a7 20 139 96 L3 15 570 90 109 97 94 43 47 90 11 $1 38 25 18 15 16 651 55 74 75 117 78 76 80 91 90 133 105 120 84 100 95 86 107 100 100 84 109 84 85 86 86 104 86 125 145 76 117 82 83 Inez Gardner Marge T. Hunt Mrs. H. R. McHood Leora T. Kartchner HONOR ROLL Eva B. Hansen Janusine N. Petersen Lena M. Jensen Leah Deakin Hazel Ransom Lillian Barfus Doris M. Flint (Sec.) Edith E. Baddley Artie H. Sessions Pearl H. Olsen Myrtle Clifford Jayne W. Bergstrom Verle Anderson Cora Quayle Elva Stauffer Thelma P. Miller Beatrice Mazych Daisy Neeley Ila Black Elizabeth Noblin Katherine R. Griffin Eula Graham (Sec.) Myrtle B. Hatch Dina M. Hansen Reeve Hill Anna K. Bangerter = 34 Relief Society Orchard South Bountiful West Bountiful Enroll-. Ment 51 77 123 So. Idaho Falls Stake 450 Ammon Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Eighth 120 22 WZ3 85 So. Los Angeles Stake 925 Downey Grant Huntington Park Manchester Matthews Maywood Miramonte South Gate Vermont Walnut Park South Ogden Stake Ogden Ninth Ogden Twenty-sixth 112 66 88 104 119 110 51 100 78 97 742 97 108 Ogden Twenty-seventh 57 Ogden Twenty-eighth 121 South Weber Uintah So. Salt Lake Stake Burton Central Park Granite Park 44 37 544 81 53 47 Subscriptions No. 39 65 95 476 121 125 143 87 1295 101 83 113 126 160 173 103 244 | il 101 581 75 117 54 96 33. 7 582 97% 59 60% Pet. 76 84 77 106 101 102 116 102 140 90 126 128 121 134 157 202 244 117 104 78 77 108 95 79 75 100 107 120 111. 129 Magazine Representative Lauretta Cleverly Estella Kerr Orla P. Hillhouse Valerea. Blatter Melvina Reed Nell Crowther Thelma Aschliman Genevieve Nichols Nancy M. Rupp Lucille Gardner Alice Taylor 'Hazel Dunford Eva Durrant Josie Newey - Sarah Bullard Anna Struhs Marie DeSpain Violet Tripp Sybel Kendrick Loretta Grammer Lillie Wangsgaard Ellen N. Brewer Lucile W. Cook Margaret Williams Venice Poll Elizabeth Fernelius Hedy T. Davies Martha Reinhold Ruth Clawson Florence Oviatt Relief Society Grover Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Summit Stake Hoytsville Upton Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Coutts Branch Tyrells Lake Branch Temple View Stake Sixth-Seventh McKinley Teton Stake Bates Cache Cedron Chapin 50 64 733 103 148 110 131 117 124 50 13 547 93 76 66 58 56 68 26 10 10 73 120 '27 20 20 16 No. 39 48 742 109 157% 116 133 117 109% 39 12 549 94 77 60 82 51 65 36 11 19 58 94 26 15 20 13 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 78 75 101 106 106 105 102 100 88 78 92 100 101 101 91 141 91 96 138 110 190 79 78 96 75 100 81 Magazine Representative Mary S. Hepworth Leta Coffman Melissa K. Wallace Catherine Spikema Katie Fairbanks Lena Draney Gladys Isaacson Vera Schmitt Ruth Marley Blanche Crittenden Ethel Blonquist Grace B. Fletcher Maysie Toomer Grace B. Fletcher Annie Larsen Esther J. Anderson Ruby Holland Elsie Perrett Roberta Smith Emily Collet Mary Hambling Thelda Gerric Mary B. Owens Julia J. Riplinger Grace E. Higley Leatha Kunz Annie Stone 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Haven Miller North Central Park South Gate South Sanpete Stake Ephraim South Manti South Sterling South Sevier Stake Central Joseph Marysvale Sevier South Summit Stake Marion Woodland Southern Arizona Stake Douglas Tucson First Tucson Second Tucson Third Wilcox Spokane Stake Spokane Central Coeur d'Alene Branch Pullman Branch Sandpoint Branch Star Valley Stake Afton South Freedom 446 58 28 21 24 114 89 87 pA 85 104 379 136 126 147 Leona Andrews Bernice Roberts Evelyn Harrison Mary McCashland Clarisa Hansen Sarah D. Anderson Janet J. Ottan Betty G. Hansen Lucina S. Parker Lucy N. James Lillian Bridges Melba Beal Francell Gines Edna B. Allred Edna Huish Louisa Done, Mrs. A. O. Stephens Alberta Wilsey Lenore Duncan Nellie N. Bliss Emma Masten Mrs. E. D. Taysom Wilma M. Marshall Mrs. Devon Roos Alice Ivie Jackson Pratt Tetonia Timpanogos Grove Linden Manila Pleasant Grove First 42 25 40 491 81 80 59 100 Pleasant Grove Second 96 Pleasant Grove Third Tooele Stake Stockton Tooele Sixth Tooele Seventh Vernon Deseret Branch 75 31 41 53 28 WZ East Tod Park Branch 9 Twin Falls Stake Buhl First Buhl Second Murtaugh Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Glines Lapoint Maeser Vernal First Vernal Third 553 35 36 45 77 68 30 707 48 48 60 76 a7 70 37 20 34 399 61 60 59 80 82 Sy 24 36 45 21 9 13 456 82 32 44 62 87 32 544 37 41 50 57 63 80 88 80 85 81 75 75 100 80 85 76 77 88 85 75 75 144 82 91 89 98 81 128 107 77 " 85 83 7% 82 114 Jessie Lewis Iris N. Dalley Hattie Hatch Geneva W. Warnick Ida Pierson Ella Smith Mary T. Monson Ethel Fenton Alice S. Devereaux Margaret Atwood HONOR ROLL Elva Benson La Dean Long Annie Gallaher Bessie Anderson Mary Carson Thelma Miller Goldie Tolman Johanna Jensen Margaret Rosencrantz Geneva Moyes Lillian Tyler Mabel M. Judd Willa Hepworth Elsie M. Palmer Elva Erickson Effie Holfeltz Lillie Bigelow Marie Johnson Arlene Chivers &b Alice O. Billings & Relief Society Bonanza Branch Rangely Branch Union Stake Baker Imbler La Grande First La Grande Second Pendleton Union Halfway Branch University Stake Eleventh Twelfth Thirteenth University Utah Stake Park Provo Third Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Provo Fourteenth University Uvada Stake Panaca Pioche Hiko Branch Ursine Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Enrollment 11 22 396 68 27 104 83 41 42 11 519 70 115 100 75 471 58 143 66 a7 49 98 299 44 52 No. 14 18 394 51 27 95 105 54 44 Subscriptions Pct. 127 82 99 75 100 91 lZ7 132 105 82 88 101 94 100 116 194 100 100 98 96 100 Magazine Representative La Mar Richins Reva Watkins Jennie Berry Sadie Shelton Lee Allen Coe Zella Moser Leona See Belle Erickson Erma Badger Wanda Bendixen Ethel L. Goates Susanna W. Jeffery Gertrude Russell Alma Erickson Etta B. Cowles Bertha Memmott Lewine Wright Esther Hurst Grace H. Judd Jane B. Evans Nellie M. Diamond Leda Law Isadora Price Eva T. Lee Hertha Kroencke Jewel Hansen Lydia Hollinger Mildred Lawrence Phyllis Christensen Zina Ritchie Relief Society Wells Stake Belvedere McKay Whittier West Jordan Stake Bingham Bluffdale Copperton Herriman Riverton First South Jordan West Jordan First West Jordan Second Enrollment 875 153 113 138 769 68 59 73 52 63 135 lay 91 West Pocatello Stake 583 Arbon Pocatello First Pocatello Third Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth Pocatello Eleventh West Utah Stake Provo Second Provo Eleventh Pioneer River Grove Sunset Woodruff Stake Hilliard Yellowstone Stake Marysville 17 91 71. 96 89 128 91 455 96 72 75 ie 95 14 651 36 No. 684% 155% 102 109 662 70 45 74 64 71 118 104 72 595 19 71 72 100 94 105 134 383 73 57 66 91 96 24 501 37 Subscriptions Pet. 78 102 90 79 86 103 76 101 123 113 87 76 79 102 112 78 101 104 106 82 147 84 76 79 88 78 01 171 77 103 Magazine Representative Mabel E. Wood Fontella Jewett Anna Sund Ruth Christensen Sarah Henderson Hazel J. Robinson Pearl Kylen Phoebe Johnson Agnes R. Dansie Eliza H. Reynolds Elsie J. Merrill Clara E. Beckstead Effie Lancaster Reta C. Austin Colleen Bailey Emma Hurst Rae Waldrum Hortence Shupe Eva Richardson Flora Jansen Hattie Tolman Cleo L. Thatcher Margaret Gabbitas Ruby Peay Ella Wilkins Eva Ricks Lilly Campbell - Naomi Harris Leona Lords Marjorie Gunter 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Daniels Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Arlington Chevy Chase Washington Wayne Stake Fremont Hanksville Lyman Thurber Weber Stake Ogden First Ogden Eleventh Ogden Nineteenth 52 111 101 86 77 61 66 39 79 65 59 39 11 52 a7 719 114 106 89 Ogden Twenty-second 74 Ogden Thirty-second 124 Weiser Stake Letha New Plymouth Payette Weiser Cascade Branch Huntington Branch Midvale Branch Sweet Branch 399 63 43 31 70 16 11 5 C 55 88 79 84 112 62 65 39 79 65 67 30 18 39 60 569 90 96 82 84 94 324 66 38 26 72 18 9 4 12 106 79 78 98 145 102 98 100 100 100 114 77 164 ba 78 79 79 91 92 114 76 81 105 i 84 103 113 82 80 80 Ina Orgill La Preal McKnight Mary C. Moulton Margaret C. Callister Verna M. Hicken La Neva Averett Margaret C. Kelly Ethel Batty Virginia Parry Elizabeth H. Benson Winona Jensen Tilda Taylor Ethel Noyes Zelda Okerlund Tamor Christenson Myrl S. Stewart Robena Harris Viola M. Royle Edith D. Anderson Ida M. Cook Fern Hennefer Fannie Chandler Ann Jensen Della Morrison Rozella M. Sinelair Clarmond Rice Clara McMurdie Sally Williams Anna Belle Preston Myrtle Butler St. Anthony First St. Anthony Third Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington First Kirtland Redmesa Aztec Branch Cortez Branch Durango Branch Jewett Branch Kline Branch Zion Park Stake Hurricane South Toquerville MISSIONS Australian Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Ipswich Nambour California Arizona Chino Miller Valley Wickenburg Bakersfield 84 93 73 56 56 42 21 31 350 313 56 om 61 == 37 37 2a 17 18 19 2 29 14 16 12 15 92 73 40 30 35 27 17 I 14 23 8 6 10 8 1133 1049 116 = 133 17 20 39 65 15 15 m2 iwi 111 77 75 148 89 102 118 100 81 106 138 142 125 79 75 77 100 164 75 80 93 115 118 167 100 89 Almina Johnson Irene Pettingill Clarissa Brown Hedwig Hirschi Zetta Brimhall Zetta Brimhall Lois F. Palmer Agnes Slade Helen Edgar La Vora Colvin Iva Ferguson C. Mae Hunt Nell Harris HONOR ROLL Guenivere H. White Edythe Klingonsmith Mae Clarke Gladys Wooley Florence L. Wardingly Miriam Dann Leila Atkinson Mary H. Stoddard Marva Kenateder Cleotha Johnson Pearl T. Romney Ilene Hansen Margaret S. Taylor 345 Relief Society Bakersfield Delano East Bakersfield Coachella Valley Indio Imperial Valley Brawley El Centro Jacumba Las Flores Paso Robles San Luis Obispo Santa Maria Mount Whitney Bishop Independence Lone Pine Ridgecrest Mojave Barstow Lancaster Mojave - Oak Creek Oak Creek Verde Valley Williams San Gorgonio Beaumont Santa Barbara Ojai Santa Barbara Santa Paula Enrollment 34 9 67 25 1 45 20 23 2 79 12 31 Ze 81 14 9. 9 28 54 21 15 18 41 6 26 4 11 29 9 79 21 14 49 27 20 Z 82 9 27 37 81 19 ~12 9 30 47 16 15 16 47 10 24 10 11 194 166 18 48 24 17 42 2 Subscriptions No. Pet. 85 100 118 84 117 109 135 87 100 104 75 87 168 100 136 133 100 107 87 76 100 89 115 167 92 250 100 86 94 88 104 Magazine. Representative Erma Tribolet Juanita B. Brooks Alfrieta B. Moyes Miriam C. Hale Miriam C. Hale Thelma Lunceford Cora Richardson Dorothy Laton Natalina Rollins Clara J. Nelson (Sec. Treas.) Itha Carmack Leah P. Godfrey Frances L. Olsen Addie Smith Laura Birmingham Lulu R. Mairs Nina Linbek Ruby D. Dorman Ann Harper Minnie B. Conklin Barbara Jones Vida Hansen Elizabeth Merwin Nancy Hight Lorene Petersen Alice Muirhead Nora McCuen Frances E. Peck -Zelpha Marengo Eileen Godbey Iva Tripp Enrollment North Carolina East Chinquapin 4 Hampstead 9 6 5 Relief Society Mt. Zion North Carolina North Elizabeth City 1 Roanoke Rapids 5 North Carolina West Asheville 6 Hendersonville 6 Virginia East Norfolk 22 Central States 921 Arkansas 45 Barney 5 Conway 5 El Dorado 26 - Central Kansas 92 Chanute 6 Coffevville 7 East Wichita 26 Junction City 7 West Wichita 21 East Oklahoma 86 Bartlesville 14 Fort Smith 12 Henryetta 8. Seminole 5 Tulsa 21 Independence 243 Armour Hills 19 No. Subscriptions Pct. 125 78 133 140 100 100 100 109 82 84 80 100 92 89 83 86 115 86 86 97 93 108 88 120 138 84 100 Magazine Representative Epsy Maready Mary Shingleton Elna E. Sholar Lorna H. McPherson. Alma M. Jones Sarah E. Israel Gladys C. Garner Sarah I. Hill Annie M. Ellsworth Nell Wiggins Alice Nooner Clarice E. Nooner Ila Lovelace Nellie Meador Thelma Postlewait Betty Spears Nellie Meador Carrie Snyder Rosie Thompson Mary Krider Margaret Hodson. Mary Mathis Shirley Farmer Jo Ann Cooper Mildred Wall Gertrude A. Pearson Naomi Nelson | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 346 Simi Valley 8 Ventura 43 South Coast 115 Carlsbad 26 Escondido 24 Fallbrook 21 Laguna Beach 18 Vista 8 Yuma 58 Yuma 28 Canadian 249 London 9 Montreal 24 Ottawa 16 St. Catharines 8 Toronto 65 Windsor 10 Oshawa 11 Central Atlantic States Goldsboro Albertson 15 Jason 19 Kinston 9 Tarboro 10 North Carolina Central Charlotte 12 Colfax 20 High Point 10 Jackson Springs 5 Winston-Salem 14 10 112 125 84 97 81 96 105 106 225 97 129 78 89 96 100 113 94 160 136 80 89 133 80 83 110 80 100 86 Rema Truman Lenora Johnson Elizabeth C. Anderson Violet Williams Eleanora Champhuysen Edna M. Jones Claire S. Poelman Florence Reiney Mary Stoddard Cora Rogers LaPriel R. Eyre Mildred Smith Betty E. Fagan Eva E. Musson M. Ruth Neil M. H. Shulzke Allie Halstead Gertrude McKittrick Mildred Harper Carrie F. Walters Mrs. G. W. Eubanks (Pres.) Evelyn Cartledge Anna Lee Pressley Mrs. L. F. Braddock Ollie Hiatt Bessie Ball Lillie Braddock Claytonville 7 Independence 46 Kans. City Br. No. 1 38 Rich Hill 11 Sedalia 13 St. Joseph 24 Westport 28 Missouri Columbia 10 East St. Louis 16 Mexico 10 St. Louis | 53 Southwest Missouri Joplin 19 Miami 10 West Kansas 56 Dodge City 28 Larned 8 St. John. 4 Scott City 10 Ulysses 6° West Oklahoma 115 Enid 8 Fort Sill 7 Oklahoma City 25 Stillwater 14 South East Arkansas 21 -Hayti 6 Poplar Bluff 10 East Central States 433 Kentucky Central Bradfordsville 14 100 78 84 109 115 79 114 90 100 80 75 111 80 100 82 150 125 100 100 85 138 100 124 121 129 133 160 80 100 Edna A. Sawyer Gwendolyn Reed Stella Richards Louise King Grace Furnell Rosa Hull Mrs. Thomas Slight HONOR ROLL Margaret Nuffer Ernestine Kanipe Mary M. S. Jones Eugenia Bertha Ohsiek Juanita Shively Grace Schmidt Marie Moore Mary Shumard Elsa Webb Joan Jordan Eythel M. Hollingsworth Alta Dew Grace Cullimore Mrs. Carlos Egan Mrs. Earl Jacklin Wilma 'Lindsey Clarissa M. Cordner Annie M. Ellsworth Pauline Brittan Alta Wright Edna H. Matheson Susie Minor 347 Relief Society Lexington Winchester Kentucky East Boldman Kentucky West Elkton Morgantown Tennessee East Bybee Knoxville Oak Ridge Tennessee West Jackson Lawrenceburg Memphis Nashville West Virginia North Fairmont Franklin Enrollment 14 8 9 4 12 5 9 14 60 8 5 21 14 43 9 13 West Virginia South 102 Charleston Huntington Verdunville Eastern States Albany Allegany Buffalo Canandaigua Camden Chester Elmira 42 27 20 12 14 7 9 103 Subscriptions No. Pet. 100 88 100 86 133 80 122 136 103 88 160 148 79 79 122 115 101 121 93 105 127 100 100 138 Magazine Representative Grace Wells Elizabeth Shrout Madalyn Haught Nettie Lee Hooper Geneva Childers Flora Mae Talley Ruth Smith Ruth Precise Mona L. West Willadean Pate Aro Lee Miller Mary Kennedy Matilda Brunson Betty Miller May Sloter Alice B. Hartman Lucy Harmon Emma Atkinson Ona Shrouth Lona Fortner Emma Barton Pauline Carr Emily Bruenea Florrie W. Riddlesworth Marie M. Schroeder Martha Sundal Margaret E. Kresge Relief Society Springfield North Ohio Alliance Canton Youngstown South Ohio Cincinnati New England Amherst Bangor Burlington Framingham Georgetown Halifax Nashua New Bedford New Haven New London Portland Northern California Fresno East Fresno Merced North Fresno Klamath Falls Alturas Tulelake Monterey Bay Pacific Grove Redwood Enrollment 7 fo, 5 mee | OCO SN TOMNwIN 128 34 66 8 10 ) Oi CCI 125 35 45 35 CO ON 30 55 Subscriptions No. Pct. 114 100 86 122 79 111 111 83 133 117 82 160 75 100 129 117 80 98 92 145 83 89 82 88 83. Magazine Representative. Valeria Detillion Mrs. Floyd Randall Ruth Anderson Olivia Lindberg Esther Taylor Adeline Taylor Lillian Ruth Norwood Valeda S. Stetson Mildred Shortsleeve Evelyn Stone Priscilla Prescott Flora Christiansen Itol B. Clough Eleanor Rimmer Phyllis G. Cannon Aurla Mitchell Sarah M. McCue Verna G. Christoffersen Georgia B. Markow Elizabeth Elcock Marinda F. Berg Bettie McCracken Betty L. Lynch Lettia M. Nuttall Pearl Brown 348° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Erie Jamestown Kingston Niagara Falls Philadelphia Pittsburgh Poughkeepsie Reading Rochester Sunbury Wilmington Great Lakes North Indiana Fort Wayne Purdue South Bend Central Indiana Columbus Indianapolis North Indianapolis South Muncie South Indiana Linton Terre Haute East Michigan Pontiac West Michigan Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Muskegan Central Ohio Columbus 25 19 11 149 15 33 55 29 14 14 11 192 32 13 14 7 5 al 120 117 80 80 76 78 105 100 88 173 100 100 76 79 91 81 100 85 75 83 86 79 91 80 81 131 79 100 79 94 Madeline Scott Esther M. Strom Olive G. Gray Tessa M. Udy Florence B. Bennett Virginia Birtcher Anna N. Young Pearl D. Yeager Helen Boas Irene L. Hile Mary A. Porter' Shirley Cunningham Norma Philbrick Nora Winebrenner Ellen R. Clayton Mrs. Theodore King Alice Coffey Lena Liggett Florence Hoskins Nellie F. Centers Ada Bedwell Louise Beauchamp Sophia B. Gordon Alfhild Tracy Eleanor R. V. Anderson Norma Wilson Gloria Nelson Lucile C. Tate F. Juanita Martin Eureka Fortuna Rouge River Etna Santa Rosa Lakeport Petaluma Sebastopol Ukiah Willits Sequoia Avenal Coalinga Exeter Porterville Shasta Corning Orland Red Bluff Redding Willows North Central States Balsam Bismark Duluth Fargo Fort Frances Fort William Gettsyburg Glasgow Grand Forks Tower Virginia 140 re NMHRMOMNnDRMOA YM MN oie) 15 18 — "NO OCOMNOATN YN se 100 90 108 75 129 75 76 78 83 90 80 79 75 81 108 75 88 111 100 86 77 100 100 100 114 93 100 100 100 Blanche Thevenin Malissa E. Clement Eva Facey Claire E. Phillips Alice Elphick Jeanette Haristy Jean D. Porter Eva Southwick Laurine Ensign Mrs. E. D. Beckstrom Emma Reip Cecelia Heindel Irma Angus Mae Woodward May Parker Lileth Jaynes Ruth Burgess Martha Nelson Aleen Paterson Dee Leavitt Jeanette Peterson Lillian E. Schoeler Ethel Shine Evelyn Winter Mildred Sandberg Aretta Maag Veronica Benson Virginia Berg Elvira Erspaumer HONOR ROLL Relief Society Williston Winnipeg South Minnesota Minneapolis Yellowstone Hardin Lewiston Miles City Sumatra Northern States North Illinois Galesburg Peoria Tri City South Illinois Alton Champaign Clinton Decatur Murphysboro Quincy Springfield East Iowa Bonaparte Cedar Rapids Iowa City Wisconsin Eau Claire Fond du Lac Enrollment 4 18 67 No. 5 18 58 286 Subscriptions Pet. 125 100 87 100 109 125 100 84 108 243 109 100 86 100 92 89 118 100 100 138 105 100 75 138 79 120 120 Magazine Representative Anna Bean Delvoir McBeath Signe C. Sundberg Lillie M. Fox Mabel I.. Sawyer Dorothy S. Anderson Gladys Bake Lucy T. Anderson Rena P. Custer -Rena P. Custer Mrs. John Diepenbrock Cleone Peterson Mary L. Stewart Beth Culbertson Anna Lou Hansen Lettie Crews Freda Belle Dial Fannie Mae Stamp Anne Burrows Marie Anna Fehrholz Lucy T. Anderson Sue Ferguson Corene N. Shaffer Barbara M. Smith Hazel Branham Luella Schraeder Mrs. Paul Hennemar Relief Society; ment Silverton 9 Tillamook 18 Woodburn 16 @ Missoula 261 Allendale 17 Charlo 46 Columbia Falls 12 Hamilton 40 Kalispell 33 Polson 12 St. Ignatius 45 Stevensville 12 North Montana vit Cut Bank 17 Harlem — 20 Shelby 6 Oregon 226 Gresham 47 Oregon City 36 The Dalles 22 Vancouver 33 Rainier Auburn 8 Buckley 16 Monroe 11 Southern Oregon 121 Coos Bay 18 Junction City 19 Port Orford 11 Westfir Oakridge 9 Wenatchee 119 Ellensburg 34 Moses Lake 28 No. / 19 18. 231 22 39 14 41 27 12 38 9 59 16 16 7 173 36 44 22 31 / 15 10 101 20 20 13 9 117 30 27 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 78 106 113 89 129 85 117 103 82 100 84 75 77 94 80 117 77 77 iz 100 94 88 94 91 83 111 105 118 100 98 88 96 Magazine Representative Annette Harris Mrs. J. S. Winfield Leurilla Wilcox Sarah Farnsworth Lillie M. Spencer Edith Brower Ruth Kiser Edith Neilson Minnie Wenab Venetta Brower Georgia Pierce Alice Downs Olga Blatter Pearl Brandvold Verda Murphy Viola Carter Gertrude E. Bales Gail Davis Vanda Marchant Elizabeth Butler Ann Fettis Elaine Krotzer Arvilla Lonnis Dorothy Smith Della Nelson Ruth Barnhurst Mary Holmes Maybelle Wild Margaret Draper Naomi B. Monson Kay I. Gibb Myrtle G. Foster RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 350 Lyndhurst 11 Rhinelander 13 Northwestern States 1819 Anchorage 39 Juneau 15 Raymond 16 Grangeville 7 Bend Prineville 22 Redmond 18 Butte Deer Lodge 9 Dillon 32 Helena 32 Lima 11 Livingston 12 Sheridan 14 Corvallis 117 Albany 17 Corvallis 41 Lebanon 17 Newport 10 Great Falls Bynum 21 Conrad 12 Fort Benton 7 Golden Ridge 9 Simms 18 Vaughn 25 McMinnville McMinnville 27 Newburg 12 Seaside 18 20 10 1457 43 13 13 9 18 15 11 42 29 10 14 11 99 15 39 14 17 145 26 10 10 12 15 22 131 25 is 14 182 77 80 110 87 81 129 82 83 122 131 91 91 117 79 85 88 95 82 170 82 124 83 143 133 83 88 81 93 108 78 Selma Hoffman Bertha Branham Mavil A. McMurrin Cora B. McCarry Lucille Ashton Irene Butler Pauline Hitz Thelda C. Smith Lucile Rossiter Mrs. Raymond Peterson (Sec.) Lucille Miller Mabel Caldwell Janet Dimick Flora Matlock Alta G. Olsen Rosemary Platt Ida Leeper Jean Miller Ivy Stott _ Gladys Peterson Maxine McDeed Joy Tracy Idalu Haynes Maurene C. Tippetts Melba Duncan Christa Walker Rotha Young Laura M. Anderson 4 Quincy-Ephrata Wenatchee C South African Bellville Springs Southern States Alabama Azalea City Bayou Le Croix Biloxi Lamison Pascagoula Pensacola North Alabama Decauter McCalla Montgomery Central Florida Belleview Orlando Sarasota St. Augustine Tampa Winter Haven South Florida Ft. Myers Ft, Pierce West Florida Bristol Marianna Sink Creek Georgia Athens Atlanta 120 110 83 167 79 84 100 100 89 100 88 87 75 183 76 120 88 109 144 88 78 103 148 100 78 100 100 113 95 150 116 Mabel Valentine Sylvia E. Olson Jean D. Wright Jean D. Wright Rula H. Choules Arcola De Witt HONOR ROLL Effie Cotton Ellen Ladner Daisy: Harvey Nell Martin Edna Hewett Lula Smith Elda Stafford Hattie L. Y. Smith Mary Langston Lorene Postma J. Marie Moore Edith R. Dorough Vera Smith Anna Hodges Nellie Mackle Ethel Gainer Virginia Dicks Rebecca W. Byers Delma Hurst L. V. Adams Clara Mae Sims Audra Peacock Caroline Willson Myrtle Dixon Mamie Maughon 351 Relief Society East Point Empire Gainesville Macon Milledgeville Montrose Gibson Georgia-Florida Cairo Douglas Fitzgerald Genoa Live Oak Perry Quitman Tallahassee Willacoochee South Georgia Ridgeland Mississippi Columbia McNeil Red Star Seminary North Mississippi Booneville Columbus Sarah Senatobia South Carolina Bennetsville Denmark AY Enrollment 12 Subscriptions No. 13 14 OmANnNwFOWOUOUONM = N — re = TMm —_ 100 m N Oona ome Sn Oe = 5 Pet. 108 117 ey 109 80 100 120 89 100 100 Magazine Representative Geneva Dubrawski Myrtle Fordham Nora Lee Miller Ruby Armstrong Alice Quinn Mrs. Ray P. Cooper, ir. Vera Thigpen Ollie Mae Adams Katie E. Butler Rachel Roberts Elizabeth Lott Florence Milton Lora Mae Boss Tatlie R. Brown Bessie Parter Stella Herring Louise Grinner Effie Saxon Otilla K. Griner Otilla K. Griner Christine Glydewell Arcola Brady Betty Speed Viola Holliday Mandy Kennedy Mrs. Ferol B. Wingo Annie S. Berry Mrs. R. W. Floyd Eunice Rainwater Pauline Morris Relief Society Wichita Falls South East Texas Bay City Baytown Beaumont Cleveland Orange South Texas Alamo. Center Point Corpus Christi San Antonio Victoria West Texas Monahans San Angelo Western States Black Hills Rapid City East New Mexico Roswell Tucumcari Pueblo Canon City Colorado Springs San Luis Toas Scottsbluff Bridgeport - Sidney Wheatland. West Colorado Enrollment 14 170 4 18 9 8 5 47 15 25 No. 12 4 8 7 15 Subscriptions Pet. 86 84 100 94 89 78 136 104 117 92 94 147 133 93 100 85 78 100 125 100 87 127 88 133 93 163 114 83 Magazine Representative Bobbie Hamilton Sadie O. Clark Goldie Ashcroft Ann Bullock Vida Morris Fern Kristof Edna Barrett Louise R. Turley Joyce Baldwin Lena Tullis Ida Mae Dyer Adda Lee Smith Mavanu Routt La'* Priel D. White Muriel C. James Ruthie Thompson Mildred M. Dillman Mabel Thomas Helen Hobson Madge Brimhall Evelyn Braddy Francis Hayme Ethel Jean Shupe Vera Eddings Irma Marie Chandler Shirley Nevas Mina Tuttle 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 Myrtle Beach North West South Carolina Aiken Texas-Louisiana North Louisiana Alexandria Levelhill Many Shreveport South Louisiana Baton Rouge Bogalusa Covington Gonzales Holton New Orleans Pride Sun West East Texas Tyler North Texas Borger North Central Texas Ft. Worth 17 11 30 78 26 82 117 150 80 167 75 86 96 94 158 88 75 106 83 76 100 125 88 91 79 87 Barbara Carroll Eva E. Strickland Mrs. C. J. Cooper Leone R. Bowring 'Margaret P. Jackson Mayme Rogers Elouise Anders Evelyn Rains Anna E, Brian Myrtle Raffrey Thanie Dunaway Elsie P. Marchand Ernestine C. Neal Grace N. Nicol Gertrude Ancoin Ruby Robinson Vaughn Rowley. Alice Cumings Annie S. Poll Lydia Swanson Baggs Craig Delta Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Meeker Montrose Paonia Rifle West Nebraska McCook North Platte West New Mexico Albuquerque Blue Water Deming Santa Fe Winter Quarters Lincoln Wyoming Casper Ft. Washakie Lander | Sheridan 96 98 123 115 148 76 94 111 78 100 80 80 80 91 115 83 100 88 77 96 78 95 80 Florence Orchard Eva M. Pace Lillian Vincent Lena Elizondo Lula Dunsdon Arva M. Allgood Estella Madsen Afton Holt Lova Carter Glenda Richardson HONOR ROLL Carol Alley Vera M. Combs Elizabeth Stradling Della Miller Mary G. McNeill Mabel Singer Alta Jorden Rose L. Newhill Katherine Hein Irtense Enos Carrie Buchanan Emma Spriggs 353 Si tart With Yourself Caroline Eyring Miner "- you want to put the world right, start with yourself." This statement which I read recently set me to thinking. I remembered that Jesus gave us to understand that we were not to criticize others unless we were perfect. You recall his writing in the sand while he allowed the accusers of the woman who had been taken in sin to depart, as he startled them by saying, * he that is without-sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." 7 How often do we hear: "I wish Margaret would keep her children at home, and teach them some manners." "I wish Mrs. Smith would keep her yard clean." These criticisms indicate a natural desire to improve the world, and we all have this desire. Along with this desire, we all seem to want to start the improvement outside ourselves. This is very natural, but unfortunately it is an unsuccessful way to begin to improve the world. A person must start reforms with himself. If I wish Margaret to keep her children at home, and to train them in good manners, I must see that I do these things, and then perhaps Margaret will imitate me. Nothing is truer than that we carry our good times within ourselves, and within ourselves, we may find the source of our displeasure with many things. When I feel concern about Mrs. Smith's untidy yard, I might ask, "Is my yard clean?" Could I offer some help to Mrs. Smith when I find she has no time nor equipment to help her keep her yard in order? I might also ask myself: "Am I looking only at superficial matters and forgetting to find in others the worthwhile qualities of dependability, optimism, genuine goodness?" If we become critical about the world, about people, we should look at ourselves. Are we above criticism? Are we judging by a false set of values? Are we looking at matters in a helpful, constructive way? Many things about us need improvement, but the place to begin is with ourselves. >< She Promise Maud Miller Cook Peace—a sweet tranquility,. Soothing as the dawn, When faith and hope are high, And doubts and fears are gone; It is a glowing light, A quiet, restful calm, That fills the soul of those Who seek this heavenly balm; Although the world is ruled by strife, His promise still holds true, That all who will may claim— "My peace I give to you." Page 354 FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS 355 For the Strength of the Hills (Continued from page 316) he said curtly, "We'll just forget it," although she suspected that his mother was doing theirs along with her own. Camilla was extremely grateful for having such a wonderful motherin-law. She had boundless energy and an efficiency that almost anyone would have envied. She thought nothing of coming over for an hour or two to help with the work in spite of her own numerous duties. If she had been at all superior about it, there could easily have been hurt feelings, but she never was. "I've always worked hard," she said once with a slight shrug. "I guess I'm happiest that way." ONE day, early in July, Camilla watched in some anxiety as the sky darkened and _ great black thunderclouds began rolling in from the west. "I hope that it doesn't lightning," she said to Stan, who was in for his lunch. "I'll never get used to these awful thunderstorms." "If it does I'll have an excuse to stay in here and hold your hand," he remarked cheerfully. "I was going to do some weeding in the lower field, but that can always wait." Half an hour later the thunder was crashing about them as if it would bring down the very mountains, and she sat huddled close in his arms. 'The accompanying rain began coming down in torrents, and Stan remarked, "I'm sure glad that I don't have to get out in this." Camilla turned to him with a look of deep concern on_ her already pale face and said slowly, "I'm afraid that we're going to have to go to the hospital. I thought there'd be two weeks yet—but there isn't." Both of them were remembering that the hospital was fifty miles away, and that she had been warned not to lose any time in coming before she became too uncomfortable. "We just can't leave in a cloudburst like this," he said. "Tl get you there in plenty of time. Just take it easy and relax." "Relax yourself,' she managed to say with a smile. "You have the look of a man about to enter a tiger's cage." "Okay, so we'll both relax," he agreed. "Only, I'll get your things here by the door so that we'll be ready to scat the minute this lets up.": The last of his sentence was drowned in a terrific crash of thunder, and he looked out of the window apprehensively as the rain beat still harder upon the panes. "It would have to happen today,' he scowled, "the worst rain of the year and it has to come today." "Maybe it's the other way around," she suggested, trying to keep her voice normal. "I've heard that electrical storms help fill up the hospitals, but I thought it was just an old wive's tale. Only, I'm not an old wife, and I'm so scared of lightning that I could almost die—and not be struck either." They waited tensely for another quarter of an hour, and then Stan said hopefully, "It's beginning to let up a little now. I think that I 356 e Appropriate eMusic _for eMother's Day HO M-o-t-h-e-r—Morse _ $.20 Mother—Romberg 18 Mother—Rubinstein 18 Mother Machree—Ball 5 Mother O'Mine—Tours 20 Little Mother of Mine— Burleigh _ 00-- 2 --.20 Little Old Lady—Carmichael.20 That's What God Made Mother For—Wood _.20 That Wonderful Mother of Mine—Goodwin 15 Those Songs My Mother Used to Sing—Smith _ 16 HH i> FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY H: 4 45-47 SOUT MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Ce, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 can get the car up to the door in just a few minutes." She put on a light coat and a scarf and stood by the window looking into the yard where small rivers were running about and forming into great puddles in all the low spots. } "We could get stuck in the mud on that old dirt road," she said to herself, then tried to put the thought away, deciding that there was no need of borrowing more trouble than she already had. TAN had the same thought, however, so she knew it wasn't entirely a matter of borrowed trouble. "T'm going to take the jeep," he announced. "I know that it sounds awful to go to a hospital in a jeep, but I'm just a little afraid of this road. Maybe we'll trade to the folks' car when we get down there where the road is better." He drove the jeep up to the door. And held an umbrella over her while she got in. Then they splashed their way out of the yard and onto the dirt road. The rain was still coming down, and they splashed through one great puddle after another. "It's a good thing that I know this road so well," he remarked with forced cheerfulness. "We'll be at dad's place in a few minutes. Then we'll trade to their car and have it easy. I'm doing my best to avoid the bumps, honey. It's not always easy to locate them when they're covered with water." She gave a sigh of relief as they drove into the driveway of the Rodgers home. "You'd best go in the house until I get the car out," FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS he said. "Mother will likely want to go with us, anyway." "Oh, yes," she answered gratefully. "I'll be so glad to have her." Her mother-in-law was at the door now and she exclaimed, "What in the wide world are you doing out in all this storm?" "IT think that maybe we're out because of the storm," answered Camilla. "Just because I'm so tertified of the thunder and lightning. Anyway, with fifty miles to go, we didn't dare wait any longer." _"T know how it goes," said Mrs. Rodgers in a matter-of-fact tone. "Babies don't show the least bit of consideration as to their time of arrival, I had one on Christmas eve when I was terribly busy—or should have been. Come in and sit down. You probably have a lot more time than you think." ER calmness and casual attitude did more to allay Camilla's fears than she would have thought possible. She sank down into a chair and thought with something akin to amazement of all the babies that had been born in the world while time and tide went on about as usual. It seemed that for the first time in her life her mother-in-law was slow getting ready to leave, but the delay brought one great blessing. By the time they were ready to go the rain had almost entirely stopped. They had just turned out of the yard and started down the road when Sam Mickelson, a neighbor, waved at them frantically. Stan stopped the car, much to Camilla's annoyance, for she thought that nothing a neighbor 357 PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. The Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah To Fit ANY BUDGET IT HAS ALWAYS BEEN Our Pouicy To HAVE COMPLETE FUNERALS SH JOSEPH WM TAYLOR MEMORIAL MORTUARY 125 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE City TELEPHONE 3-7624 . 358 could want, was of any possible importance now. "You folks going to town?" Sam yelled. "Yes," answered Stan briefly. "Well, you can't go that way," he continued. "The bridge is out. Went down just a few minutes ago. The bank gave way with this cloudburst." Camilla sat stunned. Now what? She asked herself: Aloud she said, "Surely there's another bridge." "Yes," answered Stan slowly, "but it's twenty miles further down and it's worse than this one. I'd hate to cross it even in good weather, and the road down to it is likely to be bad. We'd have to change back to the jeep, and even then..." He seemed to be merely thinking aloud, and his mother cut in deROO OR ' Tomorrow's Treasures The quilt or comforter you make today will be a treasured heirloom tomorrow. Sears considers it a privilege to supply the batts for many of these lovely examples of Mormon handicraft. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1951 cisively, "Come back into the house. There's no need of gallivanting all around the country just to have a baby. Stan can go and fetch Dr. Bramwell in the jeep. How about it?" "Oh, yes,' answered Camilla, feeling that nothing in all the world mattered except to find herself safe in a bed. Stan left at once for the doctor. Several hours later her mother-inlaw smiled at her and said, "You have a beautiful boy." "Red-headed, too, by cracky." Stan spoke in a shaky voice. "Then I guess we'll keep him," said Camilla, with a slight smile. "We always keep the red-headed ones." (To be continued ) 72 x 90- IN. HARMONY HOUSE BATTS 2 pound weight 25% wool, 75% cotton 1.98 2 pound weight 50% wool, 50% cotton 2.49 We'll give prompt attention to your mail orders. "mje ney tect" SEARS _poeioy at MAIN or STATE at 8th SO. DIAL 5-6651 PARK FREE HOURS: 9:30 a. M. To 6 p. M. Fridays Until 9 Blossoming Ruth Harwood Often what seems greatest worth In world's esteem Is but the transient, shifting substance Of a dream. And sometimes shining love May reach triumphantly above A bed of pain And lift a glowing blossom of beauty That will remain. She Road Ys Marked Grace Barker Wilson The road is marked, But here a little path Winds away Almost unnoticed; A little path, No signs, no warnings, Just the faint beckoning Of lightly trodden grass, And an alluring curve As it drops from sight Over the hill. My Heart Js Bound Josephine ]. Harvey As the constant hours pass And lengthen into years, I will treasure loveliness. I will see a white bird soar, Above a tropic, wave-washed shore, Beautiful against the night. I will walk among the ferns, The new fronds curled, And gather Fuchsia, moist with dew. Far down the golden years, as now, The frost-blue hills will claim my love. Catalpa bloom that scents the evening ait Will bind my heart to earthly beauty, As strong arms bind my life to yours. OUR MOTTO: SALT LAKE MoNUMENT Co. RONNIE JOHNSON, Owner 186 N Street Salt Lake City, Utah help keep Mothers Young! SEE YOUR DEALER OR PLUMBER A UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. MESSAGE Page 359 Toe Near and Sar I have just received my second copy of The Relief Society Magazine and I really do appreciate it. It is a wonderful Magazine to have to read for both pleasure and education. Here in Denmark the work of the Relief Society is going very well and I find myself attending meetings and | enjoying them though the language is still a little strange to me. But the spint is the same wherever the sisters meet together. —Alice Faye Rasnttiten _ Odense, Denmark I feel that I should write you and express my appreciation for the Magazine. It is truly an inspiration. I am one of the younger members of Relief Society, having been a member for just two years, and I find there is much for me at the age of twenty-four. —FEFleda Vee Stoker, Tremonton, Utah I look forward to receiving the Magazine each month and find the visiting teacher messages especially timely and comforting. The poetry is beautiful. One of my favorites is the. Frontispiece inthe February 1951 issue called "February Thaw" by Margery S. Stewart. Everything from cover to cover is interesting and well worth reading. —Kay Stockseth Inglewood, California I am enjoying Mabel Harmer's serial "For the Strength of the Hills" (February to July 1951), and have also enjoyed the other Relief Society Magazine serials. Our Magazine is surely a help and inspiration. —Norma Wrathall American Fork, Utah _ I have taken the Magazine most of my thirty-eight years of married life and am deeply appreciative of its contents. We, meaning the family, read it from cover to cover. The gospel at its best is taught in plainness and beauty within its pages. It truly breathes the spirit of Relief Society. J —Adelaide R. Clark, Los Angeles, California Page 360 I'm not in the habit of writing fan letters, but that is what you can call this. I'm an enthusiastic fan of our Magazine, and have been for years. However, my enthusiasm reached a new high when. | read the article ("Ring in Your Christmas Cards," December 1950); the poems "'Letter From a Daughter,"' January 1951, and "Blackbirds in Winter," February 1951, by Clara Laster. We are very proud of Clara here in the Central States Mission, and believe she is the first from here to "make" our Magazine, a truly literary Magazine and a great inspiration to all who read it. —Darliene 'Thompson Tulsa, Oklahoma I would like to tell you how much I: enjoy and appreciate The Relief Society Magazine. 'The articles, stories, poems, and other information are certainly enjoyable and inspiring. —Mary Duke, Mesa, Arizona I would like to take this opportunity to express my high regard for the Magazine. While living in San Francisco I took one of the copies to my writing class. With much pride I showed it to the members and they were very favorably impressed. One woman, an excellent writer, asked to borrow it. She kept it for weeks. When she finally returned it she was extravagant, yet sincere in her praise. May you continue in your fine efforts of encouraging writers and in maintaining the high level of standards the Magazine has attained. —Florence R. Clark Logan, Utah I enjoy the Magazine very much. I always look forward to the first of the month when it arrives. The sermons, the lessons, and the literature are of the greatest and most uplifting and educational nature. Before immigrating to Canada, November 1947, I used to translate these lessons for the use of the Relief Society in the Danish Mission, and I dare say that I have hardly learned so much from anything else I have studied as from our Relief Society lessons. —Karen Margretha Andersen Cardston, Alberta, Canada New Editions and New Books - - - A MARVELOUS WORK AND A WONDER $1.75 BY PRESIDING BISHOP LeGRAND RICHARDS A first book for investigators, missionaries, teachers. It clarifies the fundamental principles of the restored church, comprehensively, convincingly, 350 pages. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS COMMENTARY.__ 02 2..22-.22-.-2--2222ccoeeeeeeeeeeeees$9.00 A newly revised edition, 922 pages. Principles explained and revelations placed in historic settings. GREATER DIVIDENDS FROM RELIGION $1.75 BY DR. GERRIT de JONG, JR. Religion, the generous enricher of life for the strong and the weak, rich and poor, famous and obscure. Ideas full of spiritual power and buoyant resolution are the ready rewards for reading this strong book. OUTLINES OF ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY $2.25 BY B. H. ROBERTS A new printing of an old favorite, by a master teacher of the restored gospel. Four principal parts relate the facts about the establishment of the Church of Christ in ancient times; the "famine" for the word of the Lord and its consequences; the revolution called the "Reformation"; and the Restoration with the establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH and our dealers everywhere. (All prices subject to change without notice) Mention The Relicf Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE PERMIT No. 690 
