Page 71

From Near and Far

Fae Decker Dix, author of "A Christmas Gift for Teacher," wife of D. C. Dix, and mother of two children, is a former school teacher now acting as co-ordinator for community councils and other adult education programs in Iron County, Utah. She has served for many years as literature class leader in Cedar City First Ward and as a teacher in other auxiliary organizations of the Church. She has written many poems and pageants, and much of her work has been published in poetry magazines and in Church publications. She was awarded the Deseret News Christmas Story prize in 1936 for her offering "Empty Stocking."

I wish to express my thanks for the fine work done by The Relief Society Magazine. I find that too often we take things for granted and do not express our thanks and appreciation of the Church. I enjoy the variety of things that can be found in The Relief Society Magazine, because this is evidence of the well-rounded life of Latter-day Saint women. I'm not the only one to give praise to the Magazine, because I know of a small branch here in England which gets a few copies of the Magazine and each copy goes from hand to hand until everyone in the branch has read it. There isn't much left of the Magazine when they get through, but each copy shows how well it has been used.
—Elder Robert William Smith
Halifax, Yorkshire, England

I have just read the formula for homemade soap in the November issue of the Magazine (page 758). May I make an addition? If one cup of Clorox and three tablespoons of powdered borax are added to the soap while it is cooking, the soap will be whiter and there will be no smell to it, even if rancid grease is used. I also add a finely ground bar of good perfumed toilet soap.
—Mrs. L. H. Merriam, Grace, Idaho

I have taken the Magazine for many years, and it has given me many happy hours. I love every part of it, and the sermons from our great leaders have given us faith and understanding.
—Mrs. Genevieve Moreton, Pasadena, California

The brief message by Caroline Eyring Miner in the November issue of the Magazine (page 773) should be put in a frame and hung before us at all times. Our ultimate acceptance of the words of Jesus, without reservations, is my desire. It is my prayer that in time all men will come to know that the kingdom of God is to be found in the brotherhood of men.
—Laura R. Merrill, Logan, Utah

My mother not long ago having been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine, I had the pleasure of reading and enjoying it very much, especially the poetry, as reading and writing poetry is one of my favorite pastimes.
—Melva Cox, Cane Beds Valley, Moccasin, Arizona

I do so much appreciate The Relief Society Magazine—a gift from a dear friend. To me the most challenging and thrilling things I ever heard are the stories of the power of God in the lives of those who contribute to it.
—Mrs. Muriel Goodnight
Mesquite, Nevada

I was president of a ward Relief Society when we had the Woman's Exponent and also when the first issue of The Relief Society Magazine was published, and have taken it ever since. I have found the Magazine to be a great help and it is so dear to me that my home would not be complete without it. I have had a number of the Magazines bound and have used them for birthday and Christmas gifts and my family use them as references for lessons in other organizations, for readings and poems, and for other purposes. I very much enjoy the "From Near and Far" page.
—Mrs. Janet M. Ott,
Tropic, Utah

I am proud to be a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine (see November, 1950, page 731) because I think the Magazine is one of the finest of publications.
—Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah

Your "College grade" courses in education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field:

Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage
Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00

Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks
Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE
L. D. S. Missionary Edition $11.00; Others $1.75 to $20.00

Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking
Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING," by Constance Talbot $2.98

Literature: The Literature of England
Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75

1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE:
Paradise Lost
Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes
John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison
Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell

Social Science: "The Progress of Man"
Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN," by Joseph Fielding Smith (Temporarily out of print)

— All prices are subject to change without notice —

Deseret Book Company
44 East South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 FEBRUARY 1951 No. 2

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

The Great Mission of Relief Society by LeGrand Richards 76
A Key to the Occurrences of History by Archibald F. Bennett 86

FICTION

We'll Always Remember — Second Prize Story by Inez B. Bagnell 81
For the Strength of the Hills — Chapter 1 by Mabel Harmer 92
Miss Breech's Boy by Pansye H. Powell 97
"In the Twinkling of a Toe" by Maryhale Woolsey 108

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 102
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 103
Editorial: "Say Nothing But Repentance Unto This Generation" by Marianne C. Sharp 104
Birthday Greetings to President Amy Brown Lyman 105
Notes From the Field: Conventions, Welfare Work, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 113

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Theology: "Personal Manifestations of God and of His Son Jesus Christ in Modern Times" and "Jesus the Christ to Return" by Don B. Colton 118
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Lo, I am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the World" by Mary Grant Judd 124
Work Meeting: Table Settings and Service by Christine H. Robinson 125
Literature: Samuel Johnson and James Boswell by Briant S. Jacobs 128
Social Science: Universal Peace Must Come From God by Archibald F. Bennett 133
Music: New Hymns, Anthems, and Standard Literature About Music by Florence J. Madsen 137

FEATURE FOR THE HOME

Buying Food for the Family by Ruth P. Tippetts 106

POETRY

February Thaw — Frontispiece by Margery S. Stewart 75
Dawn Is the Gateway by Ruth H. Chadwick 80
Too Bound of Earth by Berta H. Christensen 91
The Recall by Bertha A. Kleinman 107
Where Glory Lies by Dorothy J. Roberts 117
Blackbirds in Winter by Clara Laster 117
The Perishables by C. Cameron Johns 139

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Two Wonderful, Exciting, Clean, Wholesome New Books You and Your Family Will Love

HOW MEMBERS SAVE 50%

There is no charge for membership beyond the cost of the books themselves. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. You need not purchase a book every month — only four each year to retain your membership. And you will receive a wonderful "Bonus" Book FREE for each four selections you take. Thus, the purchase of books for only $1.89 each — instead of the publishers' regular retail prices of $2.50 to $4.00 — saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the Bonus Books are figured in, you can save as much as 50%!

JOIN NOW — SEND NO MONEY

If you believe in a book club which will appeal to your finest instincts, let us introduce to the Family Reading Club NOW, by sending you both of the books described here as your FREE Membership Gift. Send no money, just mail the coupon today. However. As this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!

FAMILY READING CLUB
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

and now you can get
FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE FAMILY READING CLUB

SON OF A HUNDRED KINGS By Thomas B. Costain
The famous author of "The Black Rose" now weaves a story of Canada at the turn of the century — of Ludar Prentice, left without relatives or friends when only six years old, and how he becomes the most important person in town. Publisher's edition, $3.00.

THE COUNTRY WIFE By Dorothy Van Doren
Here is a true story with a chuckle on every page. These are the confessions of a part-time country wife — the hilarious adventures of a family that lives and works in the city, when it moves to the country for four months a year. Publisher's edition, $3.00.

BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY

THE Family Reading Club was founded to select and distribute books which are worthwhile, interesting, and entertaining without being objectionable in any way. These are books which every member of your family can read — books to be read with pleasure, and retained in your home library with pride. Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards. Our Editors then select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically to members.

Mail Coupon Now!
BOTH FREE
SON OF A HUNDRED KINGS - and THE COUNTRY WIFE

FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 2 RSM
MINEOLA, NEW YORK

Please send me the two books listed above as my free Membership Gift Books and enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club. Each month you will send me a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or whether I wish to purchase any of the alternate books offered — at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months, beginning with the current Club selection. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept.

Mr.
Mrs.
Miss
(Please print)

Street and No.

City                                Zone            State

Age, if Under 21

Same price in Canada: 105 Bond St., Toronto 2
Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada

Don Knight
MT. LASSEN AND REFLECTION LAKE, CALIFORNIA

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1951 Sebruary Shaw Margery S. Stewart Last night I heard across the sky The star-spurred horseman riding by; Hand light upon the silver rein, He galloped through the moon-white plain. _T heard his thundering horse's hooves Splinter the ice-held mountain grooves. His hot breath flared upon the lake And life leaped up in willowed brake; Naked of snow the trees sprang up Caught at his presence like a cup. High above the earth he fled, But in the darkness woke the dead; Seed and root, they woke and heard, And in their icy prisons stirred. Last night I heard across the sky The star-spurred horseman riding by. Out I ran in roar and rain To watch his fearsome flight again, Across my face his mantle swept And my heart, too, awoke and wept. The Cover: Lookout Above Casper, Wyoming, Photograph by Ray Loomis. Cover Design by Evan Jensen. The Great Mission of Relief Society Bishop LeGrand Richards Presiding Bishop of the Church [Address delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1950.] OU just don't know how nervous I feel up here with all you women, being the only man, surely the black sheep in the herd. If I didn't know that you women can and do do things so much better than we men can, probably I wouldn't feel so nervous. I was telling my wife that this morning, and she said, "Well, Daddy, don't worry, those wonderful women will pray for you and you will be all right." So you must pray for me this morning. And then, besides that, I think so much of Sister Spafford and her counselors, and as She has already indicated, we work so closely together, that I wouldn't want to disappoint them. I told them that I didn't know what in the world I could say to the women, but I am supposed to say something about your work and your relationship to the Welfare Program. I do mean it when I tell you that I think Sister Spafford and her counselors are doing a great work in this Church, and they love the Lord, and they love his work and they love you sisters, and the way you get back of them and sustain them is a marvelous thing. I think the Relief Society is wonderful. Of course, I have had a little experience, too, with the Relief Society, because I have been bishop of three different wards, and I have always said I thought my Relief Society president was worth as much to me Page 76 as my first counselor in each case. And then I was president of a stake and I felt the same in the stake. They used to say, if you want anything done, give it to the busy man. Now I paraphrase that and say, if you want anything done, give it to the Relief Society because they never fail when you make them an assignment. I think the women of the Church are marvelous. When I was president of the Southern States Mission, Sister Richards and I had the privilege of taking her mother to North Carolina where she was born and where she spent her youth, before she came West for the gospel's sake. We met many of her old friends and associates. We were in a group one night and a lady told us this experience unsolicited. She said: I went out to Utah to teach school, but I didn't stay very long. I came home. I couldn't keep up with those Mormon women. They raise large families; they work in the Church; they work in civic organizations. They made me tired. I had to come back where I could take it a little easier. Last spring I picked up the newspaper and read an announcement of one of my missonary girls from the South who had just achieved her master's degree here at the University of Utah. The paper also reported that she had-filled a mission THE GREAT MISSION OF RELIEF SOCIETY for the Church and was the mother of five children. This week we had a phone call from one of our own daughters in California who is the mother of five kiddies and she told her mother she had just registered at college. So you see you really do things, you women, and we are proud of you. You have great capacity, even the raising of families. Now that I have told you how wonderful I think you are, I want to tell you how wonderful I think your organization is. I feel that when the Prophet of this dispensation organized the sisters, gave them this Relief Society organization and gave them their charge in taking care of the sick and the afflicted and the poor and the oppressed, that that was one of the greatest steps forward in the development of social work in all the world. And I think it is pretty well conceded that it was the steppingstone, largely, to woman's suffrage even here in our own country. We recognize the ability of our women and their capacity and feel that through their efforts, leadership of women throughout the land began to spread. We are told in Holy Writ by the apostle James of old that "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." If this is pure religion, pure religion can't then be exercised and carried on nearly as well on an individual basis as it can in organized form. In other words, if we individually do all we can do, we still cannot accomplish what could be accom- 77 plished when we are united and organized. I tell the brethren of the Priesthood quorums that if they have never been in an auto assembling plant they should go. You will see 5,000 men or more enter the gates in the morning. If they were not organized there wouldn't be very many automobiles run off the conveyor during the day. But each man has his work to do, and each man takes his place and, in that organized form, automobiles start with just a chassis thrown on the conveyor, and they run off almost like running dishes out of your pan—fully assembled automobiles on their own power. HE greatest good and greatest achievements in the world call for organization, and the Relief Society is an organization for carrying on pure religion and undefiled before God. Think for a moment of what was accomplished during the World War and following the World War when we sent all those supplies to Europe, over 130 carloads, besides all the packages. 'That couldn't have been done to help our distressed people and members there on an individual basis, but in organized form it was not a great task because each contributed his and her part. As you travel through the Church and go through the great Welfare storehouses, you see the evidences of the handiwork of our women. You can't help thinking how marvelously God inspired his Prophet of this dispensation when he set up this organization. All through the years thousands and tens of thousands have borne testimony of 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 195] the loving touch of the hands of the Relief Society women in the service they have rendered to those who are in distress. We were holding a conference in South Georgia one Sunday, and a knock came at the door during our conference; and I learned after that there was a death in the community, not in the Church, but they wanted the Relief Society to come into that home. So they got the Relief Society sisters and they went and organized the work necessary to meet the emergency. And all over the world the superior work of our Relief Society is felt. I went into an office in Atlanta, Georgia, one day, and a man came rushing in. He said, "They tell me you are from Salt Lake City," and I said, "Yes, Sir.' Then he said, "Put her here." So we shook hands. His story was that he had lived here in Salt Lake, and he wasn't a member of our Church. He engaged in business here, and when he sold out he did it with the understanding that he wouldn't come back and go in business for at least ten years. He said, "Every few days my wife keeps saying, "When can we go back 'to Salt Lake?' " Now there isn't time to tell you all he said, but one thing he did say, "When we went to move into our home, it took us a few days to assemble furniture, to get a stove; but the Relief Society was there when we brought our first things. _ They came with dinner for us, and they said, "We knew you wouldn't have a stove to cook on, so we thought we would bring you a little dinner to take care of you.'" He told me they did that for several days until they got all their furniture together. When he got through and gave me a chance I| was going | to ask him why he didn't join the Church. He said, "Wait a minute, I know what you are going to ask me, you are going to ask me why I don't join your Church?" I said, "You took the words right off the end of my tongue." He answered, "Well, I will tell you why, I am. Not good enough to belong to your Church." But he couldn't forget the work the Relief Society had done. HE Savior gave us a marvelous parable when he told how the Son of man should come in his glory and with him all the holy angels, and before him should be gathered all nations of men, and as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats, the king would say unto those on his right hand: Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was sick and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. And then the righteous should say to the king, "When saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink?" and so forth. And then the King should answer: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I think in all the world you couldn't find a parallel for organized effort of women who are so capable in doing the very things the Master mentioned as in the great Relief Society organization of the Church. Furthermore, the develop- THE GREAT MISSION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ment of the Welfare Program of the Church has added to the facilities, the vehicle, as it were, for the women to carry on this great work of ministering to those who are in need and distress in our communities. And the bishop is the head of it, the Relief Society president is his right-hand assistant. And just to the extent that the Relief Society and the bishop work together can they really perform the work that the Lord expects them to do. Now there may be times when requests will come from people that you almost, from your natural impulses, feel like you don't want to help. You say that they ought to know better, they ought not to be in the condition they are in. Maybe they shouldn't, but it is just because they lack that judgment, and that wisdom, and that ability, in many cases, that they are in the condition that they are in. Probably there is a reason for that, too. You know, Paul tells us that the Church is likened unto the human body, and every member is necessary. The eye cannot say to the ear, I have no need of thee, and then he adds that even the least member is necessary. If we did not have any poor, we did not have any sick, how could he say, "I was an hungred and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink. Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me." You see, with these weak members, there is an opportunity for those who are strong to serve. 'THROUGH the great Welfare Program of the Church, God has plore his people with the 79 help of the Relief Society so that they can really render the assistance that the membership of the Church is so much in need of. Now I take it that this conference is being held to increase your ability to render your part of the service, and I know how the Relief Societies are attempting throughout all their organizations to teach and train the sisters so that they can render this efficient service. And I would like to say to you that you should do it with an eye single to the glory of God, knowing that even God cannot take care of all his people in the way that he would have them taken care of without someone through whom he can work, and the Relief Societies are the ones who are charged with carrying forward this great program of pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father. Speaking of the Lord having to have agencies through which he works, a few years ago I was invited to speak before a high priests' group here in the city. I said, "I'll meet you at the meetinghouse," and the brother who invited me said, "No, I want the privilege of taking you there and bringing you home." I said, "All right." I never refuse to let them serve me because they like me better when they do. I found that to be true in the mission field, and on the way to the meeting this man told me of an experience he had. He was engaged in work for the city. One day he was driving up Main Street, and saw a boy in uniform who was drunk, and a wicked street woman trying to lead him away. 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 He. Said, "Something said to me, 'you rescue that boy.' I found a place to park my car, and went 'back and took the boy by the arm and said, "You come with me,' and the woman said, 'Oh, no, you don't, 79) he's mine.' " And this man said, "There is a. Policeman right on that corner, and if you want to be turned over to him you just interfere." She saw the policeman and walked away. He took the boy and drove him around until he sobered up, and then took him to a hotel and got him a room., The man said to me, "I don't know why I did it. I have never done a thing like that before in my life." This good brother left his calling card with the boy, and a little later he received a letter from the boy's mother. As I recall, it came from New Jersey. She wrote: "IT don't know why you stopped to help my boy that night unless it was that I prayed for him that night as I think I had never prayed for him before." | You see, God wanted to answer her prayer, but he had to have someone through whom he could answer it. As far as I can see, you women are the ministering angels through whom God blesses so many thou- | sands of people, so I say, "God bless you." I leave you my love and blessings. I leave my love and blessings with Sister Spafford and her counselors. I love and admire them for the things they are doing. I know that all over this Church you are doing a magnificent job to help our Father's children in the execution of the work that he would have done, and he must have instruments through whom he can work. And he will say to you, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant," when your work is completed. God bless each one of you, I pray. —<>+ Dawn Js the Gateway Ruth H. Chadwick The night draws close her tattered, graying shroud, ~ Worn thin by lengthened hours of somber toil; She prods her lagging feet while pungent soil Breathes out a fragrant, cool farewell; a cloud, White-frilled and pale among the dimming stars, Salutes night's weary wending toward the gate. Exhausted, still she does not hesitate Before the dawn's majestic, lucent bars. The lintelled arch of opalescent light, Upheld by shafts of rainbow bnilliancy, Reflects its aura, pearl-edged filigree, As purpled space and living gold unite. Dawn is the gateway, sparkling, crystalline, e Through which the night must pass and day come in. We'll Always Remember Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Inez B. Bagnell INEZ BLAZZARD BAGNELL INNER was over and the dishes were still on the table. Just for a moment Sue stepped onto the porch and sat on the steps breathing in the fragrantly cool evening air. Neil came through the kitchen door, a tall slim. Figure whose shoulders were square and straight, in spite of the hours he spent bent over a desk. He dropped down by her, his hand resting quietly on hers, while a stray breeze lifted a lock of his unruly blonde hair. His face was relaxed, temporarily free of the little creases that were lately becoming a part of his face. He turned and smiled goodnaturedly at her, his face and voice full of contentment. "I like this rambling old place of ours. I even like the nice people who live here." "It's a wonderful place," Sue said. "So much room." "Those boys of ours need a lot of room. 'They cover the territory, don't they?" Neil chuckled. If it could just last, Sue thought. If they could just spend one precious hour, or half hour, in complete relaxation. But already his restless blue eyes were studying the expanse of green lawn. "The boys didn't do such a good job of mowing the lawn today," he said. "No," Sue answered. "I guess they were in too big a hurry. Neil, aren't the roses lovely?" "TIL say they are." But his pensive eyes had left the roses, finding the weeds, all the small imperfect places in the garden. The frown creased his forehead again, and his eyes became preoccupied, shutting out Sue and the loveliness of the evening. "Someday I'm going to make enough money so that we can hire a gardener. You and the boys won't have to grovel in the dirt to keep things nice. Someday, I'm going to give you everything." "Neil, dear, we like to do it,"' Sue protested. "It's nice of you to say it, any- " He rose and started for the way. Door. "Well, I'd better get busy. Page 8] 82.: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Sitting here won't accomplish anything.": an He stopped with one hand on the screen just as three shouting boys came running around the corner of the house. Gerald, the tall gangling one, carried a baseball. Tim, a smaller edition of Neil, had the bat. Cory, the freckled four-year-old, was _ the last one to come running around the corner on short legs that never seemed to go fast enough to get him there as quickly as the other two. - "Hey, Dad, come and play flies and rollers with us," Gerald invited. "Yeah, Dad," Tim put it hopefully, "come and show us how you used to throw those curves when you played with the Cubs." Neil hesitated. "Sorry, boys, I'd like to, but I can't. I've a ton of work to do.". "Ah, that's what you always say," Gerald pouted. "You haven't played with us for a long time.' | Cory jumped up on the porch and fastened both arms around one of Neil's legs, pulling and tugging at him. For a moment Neil wavered, undecided, then he picked Cory up in his arms, kissed him soundly, and set him firmly on the ground a few feet in front of him. "Go on, boys, and have yourselves a good ball game," he said. "Tl play with you some other time." He went into the house, the screen banging decisively behind him. For a moment the boys stood in a small disappointed cluster. Then they straggled on around the corner of the house. "Oh, well, I knew he wouldn't, anyway,". Gerald said. "He's _always too busy." > Watching them go, Sue was seized by an impulse. I'll play with them, she thought. Ill bet I could still knock a pretty wicked one. After all, she was still young and pliant, without an ounce of extra padding to slow her down. Then her eyes caught sight of the belated dishes gleaming through the window. It was a curious thing, she thought, that a table which looked so attractive and appetizing before dinner could, by the passing of a few short minutes, be rendered so untidy and distasteful in appearance. She went into the house. Dishes done, she idled into the homey living room. Neil was at the small cluttered desk in the corner, utterly engrossed, figuring, drawing lines with a ruler, turning the paper this way and that. Sue gave one wistful look toward the piano in the corner, then picked up her darning box and started on the stockings. As she darned she was very conscious of Neil's bent head, his absorbed expression. I wish I could understand more of what he's trying to do, she thought. It looked so complicated, all those figures and lines that a draftsman used. He was so determined, she thought, to make her and the boys happy by giving them all the worldly. Possessions he could accumulate for them. His ambition was a driving force that gave him no rest, leaving him so little time for the family which hung on his every word, loving the precious moments he gave them, hungering for more of him. _ Sue thought of all the. Things they missed—the times she and the, WE'LL ALWAYS REMEMBER boys went alone to church and to the movies, the family picnics they hadn't had, the silent piano, the unshared thoughts, the house she tried to keep so quiet so that Neil could work. She knew that it wasn't worth it. No amount of fancy clothes, cars, or furniture could make it worth it. An uncontrollable desire to tell him, to make him 'understand, swept over her, and she fought with it. She had tried ee and failed. Neil looked up. "Hello," he a softly. He came over to her, a disturbed look on his face. He seemed to read her thoughts, and his lips were warm on hers. "Someday," he said, "I'm going to make it all up to you. Someday, Sue, I'm going to give you everything." Sue sighed helplessly as he went back to the desk. A few days later when Neil came home from work Sue knew the moment she looked at him that something wonderful had happened. He was like a small jubilant boy, struggling as long as he could, to hold back a surprise. "How did everything go today?" she asked innocently. "Oh, so, so," Neil smirked maddeningly. T last, when it seemed that he was never going to tell her, he came around behind her and put his hands over her eyes. "Shut them tight. Don't open till I tell you to. Now, open easy." In front of her face was a long yellow check. "Pay to the order of Neil Patterson," she read breathlessly, "five hundred and-no one hundredths dollars." 83 She whirled around. ""What's this all about? Explain yourself, Neil Patterson. Don't keep me in the dark." Neil grinned proudly. "That, my dear, is a small remuneration for an idea I had for cutting down expenses on the assembly line. A token of gratitude from my employers, you might say. And that was just one small idea. There's plenty more where that came from." He tapped his forehead. "Who'd have thought it?" Sue scoffed. '"Who'd have dreamed there was anything besides sawdust in that old blonde head." She ruffled his hair till it stood on end. Neil's face became very serious. "What do you think we ought to do with it? There are so many things we ought to do that I don't know where to start. Of course, five hundred dollars doesn't sound like much, but when it's entirely extra it's quite a bit. Sue, this money represents sort of a milestone to me, a symbol. I'd like to use it for something very special that would _ make the whole family happy, something that we will always remember. What do you think?" "That sounds wonderful. But right quickly I can't say what we want most." "What are some of the things we've been wanting so __ badly? Bicycles and electric trains for the kids, and a play room. A movie camera for the family, and you need clothes and something nice for the house to make things easier for you. And we've been wanting a trip. Sure," he said ruefully, "it should have been something like five thousand instead of five hundred." 84. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 "Well, if you want to start figuring that way I dare say the five thousand wouldn't amount to much either. Personally, I think five hundred dollars is a lot of money, and we should appreciate having it." "Okay, Susie, I guess I deserved that little lecture. I'll tell you what we'll do. Let's find out what the boys would like most of all to do with it, and do it." The boys didn't find it any easier to decide in a hurry than had Neil and Sue. _ "Do you mean we can do anything we want to?" Gerald asked. _ "Well, not exactly anything, but as near as we can on five hundred dollars." "Tll have to think," said Gerald. "Ts five hundred dollars a lot of money?" 'Tim asked. "How much money is five hundred dollars?" Cory wanted to know. "Would it buy a new baseball bat? We've cracked ours." _ Neil and Sue exchanged a helpless glance. "I'll tell you," Neil said, "don't worry about the amount. Just each of you think of the things you would like most to do or have of anything in the whole world. We might go ona trip or buy something we've all wanted. Well, anyway, think it over. We'll get together and decide what we can use it for that will please all of us the most." "T know what I'd like," Gerald offered. "Let's not decide so quickly. Let's sive us all time to think it over and e sure. Till tomorrow, SIE "We can make a game of it," Sue suggested. "You could write your wish down on a piece of paper and we'll read them all at once.' "We could all drop them in a box—like valentines," Tim piped. "Say, Cory, do we still have that old valentine box in the basement?" There was a regular traffic jam in the doorway leading to the basement as Gerald, 'Tim, and Cory all tried to be the first one through it to bring up the suddenly important old valentine box. LL next day the boys whispered and planned together. Then there was a spell when they scribbled and erased and asked Sue how to spell words. 'Then they were quiet, and first thing she knew they were erasing, tearing up, and writing again. Cory worked doggedly over a small piece of paper, bothering the older boys to make letters that he clumsily copied. Cory printed very well for a four-year-old. By late afternoon it seemed that the boys were at last content with the slips of paper. They dropped them into the box and went out _ back for a game of ball before dinner. Sue was setting the table when Neil came in, looking tired and strained. His eyes went immediately to the box, then grinning selfconsciously, he bent and peeked through the slot. "Aren't we silly?" he laughed. "Not so silly, I don't think. After all, it's something that's pretty important to all of us." "Sue, do you think it would hurt —do you think the kids would mind if we just peeked at them now? After. All, I'd like to get an idea whether we can do what they'd like WE'LL ALWAYS REMEMBER to on five hundred dollars. Sort of prepare myself." "T can't see that it would do any harm. They needn't know." Neil removed the lid from the box and took out three dog-eared pieces of paper. "Come on, let's go out on the porch where there's a C breeze," he said. Gerald's paper was the largest and had the most writing on it. Neil pressed its folds with loving fingers. "Our oldest son," he whispered. "His heart's desire. How Id love to be able to give it to him." Then he unfolded it and began to read. Dear Dad and Mom, I have decided that more than anything in the world I would like to have Daddy stay home from work and help us build a fireplace out of those old bricks and everybody have a weenie and marshmallow roast. Then sing songs while Mother plays the piano. Lovingly, Gerald. Neil didn't look up for a while. When he did there was a baffled expression on his face. "Well, that shouldn't be hard. And it will leave the five hundred practically intact. Well, what do you suppose our son Tim wants?" He unfolded the paper slowly, then sat staring at it, not reading aloud. Sue slid over so she could see. Please, could we go fishing and Daddy teach me how to catch a big one. With love, Tim. P. S. We could fry chicken. P. S. Number 2. We could eat watermelon. KIL'S face began working, playing havoc with his features. Cory's paper hadn't been folded. It lay face up, its ill-shaped letters strung together in one unbroken line: 85 I want to go to church with you and not alone. Neil looked stunned, his face was white. "With you and not alone," he repeated numbly. "And that's what they want more than anything." He sat without moving, staring at nothing in particular. Sue watched him anxiously, her heart reaching out to him as one emotion after another was mirrored in his sensitive face. "IT wouldn't have believed it. All the things I've worked and worried and fretted about, they don't mean a thing to them, do they?" "You, and what you do means everything to them," Sue said carefully. "And to me." "But I've tried so hard... I thought...." Neil floundered helplessly. "Well, it's for sure I haven't sold them my idea that it takes money to make them happy." "Tm not so sure that's really your idea. Neil, if you had written a wish yourself what would you have chosen to do?" "Oh, I don't know. Buy you a new coat and an electric dish washer, I guess." "But, don't you see, that would be for me. You're supposed to wish for something for yourself." His look silenced her. "You should know by now that your joy is my joy," the look told her plainer than words. "All right, Sue, while we're at it, what would you have wished for?" "T don't know either, except maybe just to have the money in the bank so you wouldn't have to worry about what would happen if you missed a day's work or if any of us got sick." 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 He laughed. "Now who's making a wish for whom?" He took her hand and held it tightly. "Sue, maybe we needed that five hundred dollars to show us just how rich we already are." He looked deeply into her eyes and she knew that now he was seeing only her and the richness that was theirs. 'The roses unshadowed by the weeds. Their life, free from the marring specter of unattained wealth. He folded the papers and tucked them into his shirt pocket just as three shouting boys came around the house. "Come and play flies and rollers with us," Gerald invited. Neil jumped up. "Come on, Mom." "The last one to home plate is a rotten egg," 'Tim yelled, and everybody started to run. Cory's short legs churned desperately. 'There was an anguished look on his face as the others passed him by. Neil turned, grabbing him up in his arms. "Come on, Son, we'll both use my legs." Sue panted after them. No starstudded event could ever be better than this, she thought. This was the simple joy that they would always remember, this and rows and rows of moments like it. The flying feet of her men were leaving her farther behind every second. Well, one of their group had to be the rotten egg, and this time she didn't mind if it were she. No, this time she didn't mind at all. 7-2 @F yearold Glade, and Carma, age six. Our readers. Test. Ynez Bla zzard Bagnell Inez B. Bagnell was born in Ashurst, Arizona, and came to Utah at the age of five, with her parents John and Laura Pack Blazzard. She attended Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. She is the wife of Kenneth Bagnell, Kamas, Utah, and the mother of three children, thirteen- — -old Loa, ten- 'Mrs. Bagnell has had three stories published. One of them, "I Know Where You Are," a beautifully written story, published in The Relief Society Magazine, February 1950, has received much very favorable comment from Mrs. Bagnell is now working on a novel, which, she says, very slowly as homemaking is a full-time job. Constant tug of war between my sewing machine and my typewriter. Very proud and happy to have placed in the Relief Society Short Story ConIt gives me great encouragement." Active in Church work, Mrs. Bagnell is a Sunday School chorister and a member of the Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus in her ward. "goes I love to write, and there is a I am A Key to the Occurrences of History Archibald F. Bennett Secretary, Genealogical Society [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1950] HIS is indeed a great privilege, my sisters, to meet with you, and to feel the spirit of this fine gathering. Perhaps I can help most today by presenting briefly a key to the interpretation of the events of history, past, present, and future. As Sister Elliott has pointed out, the world today is perplexed and confused, on the brink of a great crisis. Amid wars and rumors of wars, tribulation and suffering, hatreds and antagonisms, men's hearts are failing them, and there is a fearful looking forward to that which is to come, even td the prospect of perhaps world-wide and total destruction. Beset with a bewildering outcry of conflicting theories and plans of government, we need some key to the meaning of all these events taking place around us today, to those that have occurred in the past, and to those events still greater that are yet to come. Many persons studying history and these present events have grown bitter and cynical. Some declare openly that Christianity has utterly failed, that all religion has failed. I heard one army general declare, 'There have always been wars; there will always be wars, despite anything we can do." Even the great and eloquent British statesman, Lloyd-George, in his later years, wrote that many have fondly believed that right has always triumphed over might and over wrong. But history, he announced, proves that it is always the strongest who win wars and dominance over the weak, and that it is preparedness that will always win wars in the future, and not the righteousness of the cause. The American poet Lowell was privileged to glimpse a greater truth. He saw behind the apparent truth of this conclusion a loftier conception. Although he recognized that through the centuries wrong has always seemed to triumph, yet he could write: Truth forever on the scaffold; wrong forever on the throne; ) Yet that scaffold sways the future, and behind the dim unknown Standeth God within the shadow, keeping watch above His own. The truth of that inspired view of the poet is borne out by a study of history. But it must be history rightly interpreted! Most authors of histories take the ground-view of events, as did Lloyd-George. What we need today is a sky-view of human happenings, history read by the light of revelation, interpreted by the vision and power of God. Page 87 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 The Lord gave such a sky-view of history to Enoch. The record says that Enoch was high and lifted up; and he beheld all the nations of the earth, generation after generation:. And behold, the power of Satan was upon all the face of the earth And he beheld Satan; and he had a great chain in his hand, and it veiled the whole face of the earth with darkness; and he looked up and laughed, and his angels rejoiced (Moses 7:24, 26). At the side of Enoch stood the Lord himself, to show him the meaning of all these things. What a pity it is that the writers of the world do not accept this divine interpretation. It shows plainly that when men and women in any age of the world have obeyed the commandments of God they have been blessed with peace and prosperity, harmony and happiness; when they have forsaken God and rebelled against his commandments they have been led captive by Satan down to misery and suffering, contention and strife, war and bloodshed, degradation and death. ~The Lord gave a similar sky-view. Of world history to the brother of Jared and to Nephi. Each saw the destruction of his people through wickedness, proving convincingly the truth of the statement in the Book of Mormon that "wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10). In my younger years, while studying and teaching history, I was troubled in accepting the current theory that mankind has made a gradual up-climb, a continual ascent from the brute-like, savage, almost bestial cave man, to the present high pinnacle of civilization, so-called. For at our highest pinnacle, it was all too evident that man today is more capable of the wholesale destruction of his fellow man than ever before, and we are far from a state of peace and happiness. HEN one day I was fortunate enough to come across an article printed in the Improvement Era. It provided a true key to the interpretation of history. It bore the title, "Progression and Retrogression," and was written by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. He pointed out the fact, quoting scripture to prove it, that the first man Adam was a highly intelligent and civilized man, an almost perfect being. He showed that Adam had a language that was pure and undefiled; that he and his wife were instructed by God himself. They and their children were blessed as long as they kept the commandments of God; yet when their descendants rebelled against God, and "loved Satan more than God," then they fell from their high estate and descended to war and murder, contention and savagely. There was another upclimb in the days of Enoch, when his people reached an almost perfect state; but succeeding generations declined rapidly to the almost total destruction at the time of the flood. They rose in civilization under Abraham and Isaac and Israel, but in sin went down to the crucifixion and the long night of the apostasy, when darkness covered the earth, and Satan could look up and laugh, and his angels rejoiced. History, then, has been a series of ascents with righteousness and A KEY TO THE OCCURRENCES OF HISTORY descents through wickedness. The degree of civilization of a people has been determined by the extent to which they kept the commandments of God. It has been a long climb from the days of the Dark Ages. 'The Spirit of the Lord touched the hearts of good men. 'They sought for freedom, because freedom is a cardinal principle of the gospel. The Book of Mormon speaks of "the foundation of liberty which God had granted unto them, or which blessing God had sent upon the face of the land for the righteous' sake" (Alma 46:10). There came brave souls who struggled for political freedom and those who fought and died as martyrs for religious freedom. In our own land and in other lands the fight for liberty went on; and the liberty thus gained made possible the restoration of the Church. ) The battle is not yet over, but we are assured of the final victory. We fondly look forward to the time when peace shall reign over all the earth, and the will of God will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Satan is determined. He wants to win, and he sees the danger of every new gain now being made. But God has told us in the Doctrine and Covenants (10:43): "I will not suffer that they shall destroy my work; yea, I will show unto them that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil." So we do know something about. The outcome, even though there are troubles ahead between now and that period of victory. That first helpful article on "Progression and Retrogression" by 89 Elder Smith has since been expanded into a volume called The Progress of Man, the chosen text for the Social Science course for the next three years. The world needs such a book today; we in the Church need to study and understand its message. Elder Smith is a life-long student of history; he is also thoroughly versed in the revelations of the Lord. His is a precious contribution. True social science in its purest form is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This gospel—this art of human beings living together successfully and happily—has been tried and proved effective in leading the people of innumerable myriads of worlds to exaltation and eternal happiness. The immense number of these worlds may be faintly indicated by what the Lord showed to Enoch. When Enoch saw the worlds the Lord had created, he exclaimed in awe, "Were it possible that man could number the particles of the earth, yea, millions of earths like this, it would not be a beginning to the number of thy creations" (Moses 7:30). Surely a plan that has proved successful so many times before can be trusted here. Whenever it has been given a full chance here by any considerable number of people, it has proved an effective plan, as on all other worlds. [NX the days of Enoch it brought peace and happiness for 365 years. Of Enoch's people, Zion, it is written: The Lord came and dwelt with his people, and they dwelt in righteousness.. Great was the glory of the Lord which was upon his people. And the Lord 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish. And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses 7:17-18).: And all the days of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred and sixtyfive years. And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion (Moses 7:68-69). What a pity that such plain and precious teachings are not known to the leaders of nations and the students of the history of the world! Following the Savior's visit to Ametica:... The people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among. Them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free and partakers of the heavenly gift (4 Nephi 1:2-3). You will notice that freedom is spoken of as a gift from heaven. There was no contention among all the people in all the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God... And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings (4 Nephi 1:15-18). That beautiful condition endured for 165 years. Now, in conclusion, I should like to read to you some inspired interpretations. Of history by the Prophet Joseph Smith.. He wrote an article (it is the last chapter for this year's study), called the "Government of God." Here was a prophet of the Lord qualified to interpret the events of history, as the Lord would have them interpreted." We might call these sayings "axioms of social science from a prophet." The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness; while that of man has been productive of confusion, _ disorder, weakness and misery. Man is not able to govern himself, to legislate for himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. If there was anything great or good in the world it came from God. Other attempts to promote universal peace and happiness in the human family have proved abortive; every effort has failed; every plan and design has fallen to the ground; it needs the wisdom of God, the intelligence of God, and the power of God to accomplish this. The world has had a fair trial for six thousand years; the Lord will try the seventh thousand Himself. This course of lessons leads up to the final destiny of the earth and man when they shall, if faithful, reach eternal perfection and eternal happiness. The designs of God have been to promote the universal good of the universal world; to establish peace and good will among men; to promote the principles of eternal truth; to bring about a state of things that shall unite man to hie fellow (Continued on page 141) Don Knight Soo Bound of Earth Berta Huish Christensen Let me not grow too fond of life to leave The mellow, emerald earth; too fond of light Cut to a summer's length. Let me not cleave C Too ardently to winter's sheltered night. Let me not hold too close the amber cord That threads the autumn's intricate design, Nor cling to heirlooms from a treasured hoard, Too transient and elusive to define. And I would not be captive to the cry Of sorrow, nor too closely housed by mirth, Nor hemmed in flight by traveled lanes of sky. I must not be too bound or fond of earth, For I would go unfettered to the door, To meet with eagerness, one gone before. Page 91 For the Strength of the Hills CHAPTER 1 Mabel Harmer AMILLA stood on the platform in front of the little station and watched the train grow small in the distance. It finally disappeared around a hill and left her feeling very much a stranger in a strange land. What if Idaho was just a thousand miles from California? -To all purposes, for the time being, it might just as well have been a hundred thousand. Well, she had insisted upon coming and here she was. She picked up her bag and walked around to the other side of the station where a short, plump station master was hauling some express packages into the side room. "You stoppin' here?" he paused to ask. She resisted an impulse to answer, "Obviously," and said instead, "I'm going to Crandall. Can you tell me how to get there?" "On shanks' ponies, unless you can catch a ride with Stan Rodgers," he said cheerfully. "He come in for a piece of machinery, but I reckon he could make room for you. Or you can wait and go out with the mail in the morning." "Where would I be able to find Mr. Rodgers?" she asked, brushing aside the suggestion of a ride with the mail. "Hard to say. Maybe over at Peeble's store. Most everyone who comes in goes there sooner or later." "Thank you. Tl just put this bag with the others, if you don't mind, until I'm ready to leave." Page 92 "Not at all," he replied, picking up the bag and placing it on top of the two that she had checked. "The store is at the other end of the block. You can't miss it." Not until Camilla had started down the unpaved sidewalk did she begin to wonder how she would identify Mr. Rodgers. She hadn't even asked his approximate age. Well, she could always ask his name. Peebles' store had the combined odors of practically everything from leather goods to candy. There were half a dozen customers, but only two of them were men, so she took a chance on the younger and said, "Tm looking for a Mr. Rodgers." "Speaking," he answered briefly C and to the point. "What can I do for you?" "My name is Camilla Fenton, and I'd like a lift to Crandall, if you can manage the room. I have three bags." "I can manage if you can," he countered. "I only have a jeep. Think you want to ride in that?" "IT want to ride in anything that will take me where I'm going," she said with a faint smile. "Okay. Ill be leaving in about a quarter of an hour. Want me to pick you up over at the station?" "If you will, please," she answered gratefully. "Tl have my luggage ready." She walked back, feeling very much cheered and, this time, took occasion to look around at the town. There were half a dozen stores, in- FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS cluding a movie house that advertised shows Wednesdays and Saturdays, and a few groups of houses, each with lawn and flowers in front and a vegetable garden at the rear. There seemed to be sunflowers everywhere, and over to the east rose a high range of purple mountains. "Tm going to like it," she promised herself defiantly. "It will be high adventure." The defiance was to her aunt in California, who had "raised the roof" at her proposal to teach school in Idaho, and to her friends, who had expressed skepticism and disapproval by everything from raised eyebrows to open scoffing. "Did you get 'im?" asked the plump station master. "Yes, thank you. He'll be around in a few minutes." She brought out her checks and assembled her luggage at the end of the platform so that it could be easily picked up. Then she waited while a quarter hour passed and dragged into a half hour, standing first on one foot and then the other. She had to remind herself very forcefully that the man was doing her a favor to take her at all, and that if his business kept him longer than he had thought, it was up to her to make the best of it. HE jeep finally rattled up and the young man jumped out. "Sorry to keep you waiting," he called with a grin, piling her bags in the rear of the jeep alongside his purchases. He helped her into the seat beside him and, with a couple of jerks, they started down the road. % ~ "Schoolteacher," he said above the clatter. "Yes, how did you know?" "Oh, the time of the year and general get-up. They're not hard to figure out. Where do you come from?" Santa Monica, California," she replied, trying not to say it boastfully. To her satisfaction, he was properly impressed. "Well, we've had them from most everywhere else, but you're the first I ever heard of coming from California. I don't suppose that anyone ever left there of his own free will. Or is that only Chamber of Commerce publicity?"' "T guess not many people leave," she agreed. "Not for very long, anyway." She had no intention of explaining why she herself had come. It wasn't something that one could explain to a complete stranger. "I think it's fun to go different places," she said, "and I'm sure that I'm going to like it here." "T hope so. I wouldn't trade our town for the whole State. It gets sort of cold, though,' he ended cheerfully. "How cold?" she asked curiously. "Oh, sometimes ten below. There's a good stove in the school- - house," he grinned. She couldn't tell if he was joking, so she let it pass and asked instead, "What's growing in the fields? It looks like all the same crop." "It is. Spuds—you know, the famous Idaho potato. That's all we eat out here. That and a bit of bacon once in awhile." 94; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 195] "That will be a nice change," she replied airily. "At home we eat nothing but oranges and avocados." From an occasional glance she could see that he was quite good looking—that he just escaped being handsome, in fact. He was very tanned, and his hair seemed to be just a shade lighter than his skin. In contrast, his eyes were a very deep gray, set off by black eyebrows and lashes. He wore a_broadbrimmed hat and a blue plaid shirt in best western style. They rode along in silence for a time until she ventured, "How far is it to Crandall?" "Thirty miles. Getting tired?" he asked. "Old Betsy here sure bumps along." "No, not at all. I just wondered." They swung into a small ravine lined with aspen trees, and when they came up again he exclaimed, "That's it." Camilla saw farms here and there, the barns usually larger than the houses. 'There was a small center with a church, schoolhouse, and one or two other buildings. The mountains seemed very close, and it reminded her of what Uncle Evan called "a jumping off place." He gave her a moment and then asked, "Well, what do you think of it?" | "It looks very pretty and—peaceful," she replied trying to think of something nice to say. "Tt's peaceful all right," he agreed. "I guess you want to go to Mrs. Whipple's?" "Yes. How did you know?" "She always boards the schoolteacher. 'There's a different one every year." "Don't they ever come back a second year?" asked Camilla in vague concern. "Nope, but some of them stay. The good-looking ones always get married." "Then I'm safe," she said, and immediately wanted to bite her tongue. It was exactly as if she were inviting him to say that she was good-looking. Unexpectedly, however, he answered, "Oh, I don't know about that. We hang on to the red-headed ones whether they're good-looking or not." And, with feminine contrariness, Camilla found that she was annoyed with him now instead of with herself. | "THEY stopped in front of a small weatherbeaten cottage, and he said, "This is it. Il carry your things in." Camilla wasn't at all sure just what she had expected, but she knew that it wasn't this. For a fleeting moment she contrasted the gracious white stucco house in Santa Monica, and once more she reminded herself very vigorously that this was what she had asked for. Mr. Rodgers was already on his way up the walk with the two larger pieces, and she followed with the smaller. Before they reached the door it was opened, and a small, wiry woman, looking almost as weatherbeaten as the house, was smiling at her. "Miss Fenton," she said, reaching out a hand, "I'm real glad to see you. It's nice you were in town today, Stan. Bring the things right in here. How's your digging coming along?" FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE HILLS "Okay, I guess," he answered easily. "We'll be through in a couple of weeks if the weather holds out." Camilla stifled an impulse to inquire if the weather sometimes gave out, and instead asked, a trifle selfconsciously, how much she owed him for the ride. She could see at once that the comment on the weather would have been more in order. "Forget it," he said with a slight shrug. "Then, thank. You very much indeed," she said stiffly. Why did he have to make her sound like a nitwit for asking a perfectly natural question? She wished that he would get out before he made her feel even more ill at ease. He might have done so had not Mrs. Whipple invited him to have a look at the big squash she was sending to the county fair and sample the blueberry pie she had just finished making. That, together with a string of lively chatter, made Camilla sure of one thing. Her landlady was decidedly social-minded and would be good company. He finally left, with the piece of pie in one hand, and Mrs. Whipple took Camilla into her own room, a front bedroom just off the living room. "Tl set on supper and call William," she said. "I guess you must be hungry and tired, too." Camilla was more confused than ever, but she smiled and Mrs. Whipple went out. She hung up her clothes and put her toilet articles out on the dresser, along with Boyd's picture. He looked handsome and even more 95 correct than usual. Maybe I am in love with you and just don't know it, she thought. Anyhow, _ this should be one way of finding out. William turned out to be a twelve-year-old-son, and during the course of the evening she learned that Mr. Whipple had passed away five years ago. Since that time the widow had made her own way by running the small farm as best she could, and boarding the schoolteacher. Camilla wished that she could think of some subtle way to find out whether or not Stan Rodgers was married. Not that it mattered, really, but the winter would pass much more happily if there were some congenial young people about. Finally the talk came around to the school, and she asked casually, "Does that Mr. Rodgers have any children in school?" "He doesn't have any, period," answered William helpfully. "He isn't married yet," Mrs. Whipple added, "although he goes quiet a bit with Marcia Ellertson. I expect she'll get him, in time." Not married yet, but had a steady girl—or almost. 'The picture, on the whole, was not too bad, Camilla decided. ATER, as she lay in bed in the sparsely furnished little room, she had the first real misgiving about her venture. Since her parents' death, almost ten years before, her home with Aunt Lillian had been more pleasant than otherwise. If only Aunt Lillian weren't so domineering and so determined to shape every detail of one's life. 'There had been times when Camilla felt that she would stifle unless she got 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 away. 'Then there was Boyd. He was everything that a sensible girl could want, as her aunt had pointed out many times, good-looking, proper background, a rising young architect, and their interests, on the whole, were the same. What more could a girl want? She wasn't sure, but she had a vague idea that there was something—at least a feeling that it mattered whether or not he came or went. Maybe that was the trouble. He was always coming. Well, she would have a wonderful opportunity now to find out if she missed him, and the chances were that she would. The next day was Saturday, and she awakened to leaden skies, a steady downpour of rain, and a case of appalling homesickness. All the reasoning of the past night was swept away. She had been every kind of an idiot to come out here, and she would give her front teeth to be back among the palms and flowers of Santa Monica. Even Aunt Lillian assumed the role of a charming, solicitous guardian, and Boyd was a paragon among young men who would surely be plucked off before she could get back to him again. The odor of frying bacon was of some consolation, and she got up and dressed. Mrs. Whipple was bustling about and the table in the kitchen was set for one. "T'm glad you could sleep late," she said. "It will help the time to pass away, because I guess there isn't much you can do in this rain. There's a dance in the recreation hall tonight, though, and I asked Emery to come and take us over. I thought it would be a good chance for you to get acquainted with some of our young people. Emery's my brother," she explained in answer to Camilla's look of surprise. "He's never married, and he isn't much to step out, but he'll take us over tonight." | It seemed like an odd arrangement for a dance date, but it sounded better than nothing. One thing she was sure of, she couldn't sit — around letting this drizzle nurture her homesickness or she wouldn't last the month out. She wondered what to wear to - the dance, and finally decided on a kelly green crepe that contrasted well with her auburn hair. She supposed that she would be looked over rather carefully by old and young alike. Emery drove up about nine, and they left—William included—for the dance. Mrs. Whipple instructed her brother to dance with Camilla first and then to bring over some of the young folks. He did his duty with some slight embarrassment, and she danced with one boy after another, acknowledging to each that she was having a very good time, thank you, and that she was sure she was going to like teaching in Crandall. All the time she was searching each new group that came in to see if Stan Rodgers was among the crowd. It was ten o'clock before he came, bringing a pretty, fair-haired girl— probably the Marcia Ellertson Mrs. Whipple had mentioned. He danced twice with his partner and once with another girl before he came over. Then he said easily, "Good evening, Miss Fenton. May (Continued on page 142) Miss Breech's Boy Pansye H. Powell PIN G! A snowball flattened itself against the white clapboard of Miss Sally Breech's house. Miss Breech sighed exasperatedly. "Drat those boys," she exclaimed —to no one in particular, since she lived alone, and there was no one to exclaim to. She did not rise from her chair to investigate the origin of the missile. In the first place, she knew that the neighborhood boys, out of school for the Christmas holidays, were probably the instigators of the attack. She had been aware all day as. She went about her cleaning that the street was alive with boys. They had played fox and hounds on the next door neighbor's yard, and now they were holding a mimic battle in the street in front of her house. Even Butch, the little boy from next door, was out there, getting wet and probably "catching his death of cold," as Miss Breech put it. I - In the second place, Miss Breech was too tired to be chasing boys away. She was too tired to do much of anything. She had worked all day, cleaning her little house, which was perfectly clean when she started; but Miss Breech was a good housekeeper and would have thought herself remiss if she had not gone over her house thoroughly on this day before Christmas. She had swept and dusted and waxed and washed windows. Now she sat in her comfortable overstuffed chair, her feet placed on the ottoman, her weary head resting against the soft cushion. There was more than physical weariness and exasperation with a bunch of exuberant boys in Miss Breech's sigh. It was true that at sixty-five she could no longer do the work she once could; she had learned to rest frequently, but she was still much more energetic than many of the teachers who were still going to classes every day, while Miss Breech stayed home in the ranks of those recently retired. No, it was not physical weariness nor entirely her vexation at the neighborhood boys that made her sigh, as she sat relaxing after her day of housecleaning. Miss Breech's sigh came from something she would have scoffed at, had she known anyone was going to label it spiritual fatigue. "Rats," she would have said, "I've nothing on my mind. Free as the birds—no school, no pupils to worry about, no Christmas program to prepare for the first time in forty years. Wonderful feeling, this!" That is what she would have said, but that would have been camouflage. Deep down in her she knew that she was lonely and a little depressed. This was the first Christmas in forty years that she had not 'been busy every minute, decorating a tree, putting on it the little gifts brought her at school by her adoring third graders. Several times today she had thought of those gifts, awkwardly wrapped by the pupils themselves or daintily packaged by willing mothers. Though Miss Page 97 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Breech had never opened her gifts at school, she knew by long experience that the little square packages with small round ends were bottles of dime store perfume, usually gardenia; that the thin flat packages were handkerchiefs; and the long wide boxes were probably chocolates. She had always brought them all home from her room at school, placed them on or under the big tree, and opened them on Christmas morning, writing down each child's name and gift so she could thank him personally. But this year she had no eager roomful of third graders; there would be no tree, for pension money didn't stretch so far as that; no gardenia perfume would be stored away unopened. LL this Miss Breech had been thinking as she rested in her living room. It was an attractive room, neat and clean, not elaborately furnished but tastefully arranged with old walnut furniture that had been her grandmother's, and brightened with chintz slipcovers and drapes that Miss Breech had made herself. Miss Breech had always enjoyed her home and had never felt lonely in it before. Even though she had no near relatives to join her on Christmas Eve, always there had been school to keep her busy right up to the very night. But toda she felt tired and lonely and depressed by the yelling voices outside, as the snow fight in front of her house waxed more lively. She brushed her hands across wet eyes and then said to herself— she had developed the habit of talking out loud to herself only this winter: "This house iooks peculiar without a tree. I really can't remember a Christmas when I didn't have a tree. I've bought forty trees and have seen them set up in my room at school. Anyway, those silver bells over the doors and windows do look pretty, and those holly wreaths are beautiful, with the big red ties on them. Christmas trees aren't really necessary to a Christmas at all." Miss Breech jumped nervously as a snowball slithered over her veranda. But she did not rise from her resting position. She continued thinking aloud: "Does seem odd not to be getting a program ready. Guess that part's all over by now. School let out yesterday. I ought to know. Those pesky boys on this street have been yelling and throwing snowballs all day. They've had Butch out there all day, teaching him how to make snowmen and to throw balls." The thought of Butch irritated Miss Breech so much that she rose from her chair and went to the front window. Peering out through the clean shining surface of her recently washed window, she looked for a familiar little figure among the swarm of older boys in the front street. 'There he was—sturdy and independent—trying so hard to be big with the boys who were not his companions during — school y - hours, since he was too young to be in school yet. "He's just getting too smart," Miss Breech soliloquized. "Not good for little fellows to be around those older boys so much. No wonder he's such a noisy child all the time." MISS BREECH'S BOY She watched the chubby little figure in the red woolen coat and cap and blue overalls scampering around, making snowballs, and delivering them to an older boy who promptly hurled them at his opponents in the fight. The scene was a lively one and would have provided amusement to an ordinary observer; but Miss Breech was no ordinary observer. HE had reason to look with disfavor on Butch. The family had moved next door to Miss Breech in June, and from the first day of his arrival Butch had made himself at home on Miss Breech's lawn. He ran through her back yard, pursued by a yapping scraggly terrier. Neither of them regarded her zinnias and marigolds as more than pretty colored grass, a little nicer to step on than ordinary lawn covering. The terrier had a propensity for sleuthing in hedges, and Butch had no respect whatever for Miss Breech's elaborately worked out borders. That first day, when she recovered from the surprise of their unannounced visit, she had stopped Butch in a pre-emptory manner as he ran wildly through the yard a second time in pursuit of an imaginary robber. "Little boy," she had said in her best school teacher manner, "I want you to be careful not to run over my flowers." He had paused momentarily in his mad flight, and the yapping terrier had yanked at his heels to prompt him to move on. Butch had looked up at Miss Breech with sparkling blue eyes from under a bemedaled beanie. 99 "Sure," he had answered in a startlingly loud voice. "We'll be careful. Come on, Chippy," and away they had scampered, lopping off a branch of a chrysanthemum plant as they rounded the corner of the house. That was only the beginning. Numerous episodes followed. Most of them involved the terrier, which Butch stoutly defended from all attack. "Chippy is a good dog," he would say. "He doesn't know they are roses." Miss Breech would answer, "Butch, you will have to keep that dog off my yard, or I'll have to tell your mother to put him on a chain." "Okay, ll tell him," Butch promised, and Miss Breech later heard him doing just that. "Now, Chippy," he was saying, on the other side of the hedge between the two yards, "you will hafta stay out of Miss Breech's flowers. You'll hafta, do you hear?" But Chippy was back before evening, chasing butterflies and beetles, regardless of Miss Breech's protestations. Finally she went to Butch's mother, a warm, friendly person, much disturbed by Miss Breech's disapproval of Butch and Chippy, and trying to curb the lively spirits of both offenders with small success. "If you wish, Miss Breech," she said on this occasion, "we'll give Chippy away. We know he is causing you trouble, and Butch's father and I have talked about what we could do about it." "Oh, no," Miss Breech hastened to reply, "you musn't do anything 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 like that. Butch is so fond of Chippy. It's just that I've always been able to have a nice garden, and they do run across things without much consideration for what they may be doing." After this visit of Miss Breech, Butch and Chippy made fewer forays into her yard. Then had occurred the case of the missing galoshes. AVING come home rather late one rainy night, Miss Breech removed her galoshes and left them on the front porch. Usually she was very careful to leave nothing loose around the house, but tonight she had been late and ready to go to bed, so the galoshes were left outside. The next morning— no galoshes. Miss Breech looked everywhere; being a systematic person, she knew she had left her galoshes outside the door, but being also more absent-minded than formerly, she knew it could just be possible that they were somewhere in the house. But no galoshes could be found. Later that day Miss Breech went out into her yard to do her daily stint with her flowers. Under the forsythia bush where she had recently freshly spaded the dirt before watering the lawn, she saw a suspicious hump in the soil. Just at that moment Chippy made a sortie into the yard, approached the hump of dirt, and_ sniffed reminiscently. As Miss Breech approached, he withdrew hastily to a safe distance. ) Then she saw a bit of dark gray rubber protruding from the side of the hump. She jabbed her garden fork into the dirt and unearthed one galosh in a decidedly debilitated state. There were unmistakable signs that something had tried to masticate the galosh. Chippy was guilty on circumstantial evidence. Miss Breech saw red. She dashed at Chippy and managed to land on him one blow from the handle of her fork. Chippy departed, after giving an anguished howl, his tail between his legs. Miss Breech went to Butch's mother again, and from that time on the two malefactors were not seen in Miss Breech's garden, except once in a great while when Butch, a naturally friendly child, would come over briefly to admire some flowers that particularly caught his eye. On these occasions Miss Breech now and then gave him some flowers to take home with him, and so a kind of peace had been established; but it was an armed truce liable to break out into open warfare at any time. What the family did to keep Chipy home Miss Breech. Did not know, and she told herself she did not care, but secretly she felt a little bit ashamed of herself, although she felt at the same time that she was right. That was why Miss Breech looked with disfavor at Butch's activities in the snow fight. "They're teaching him more meanness," she soliloquized, "like as not." Just as she turned away from the window to go back to her chair, a plump snowball landed squarely in the middle of, the big clean pane. Luckily, the pane did not break, but the spattered snow immediately removed all traces of Miss Breech's labor of the morning. She MISS BREECH'S BOY quickly opened the front door to catch the person who had done this. 'The street was empty, except for Butch and Chippy, both of whom were looking at her with fear. Not an older boy was in sight. Chippy crept over close to Butch's feet. "Butch," Miss "come here, Butch." Butch started toward her obediently. Chippy cocked one ear inquisitively, then followed at a discreet distance. As Butch stepped up on the porch, Miss Breech demanded, "Did you throw that snowball?" Chippy remained 'at the foot of the porch steps, an expression of suspicion upon his bristly face. Butch faced Miss Breech's frown and spoke right up, "No'm!" "Well, if you didn't, I'd like to know who did. Somebody threw it. I'm sure Chippy didn't." At mention of his name Chippy barked inquiringly, but settled down dejectedly with his head on his paws when Miss Breech sharply reprimanded him: "Hush! Be quiet!"' "Well, Butch," she reiterated, "I want to know who threw that ball. If you didn't, do you know who did?" Butch had learned his lesson well from the neighborhood boys. It was not in his code to tell on anybody. He did not answer Miss Breech, but looked past her through the open door to the living room, brave in its Christmas green and red. His eyes played around the room, searching. Then, because it was more important to him to have Christmas trees than to know who threw a snowball, he Breech called, 101 abruptly changed the subject by demanding, "Don't you have a Christmas tree?" "No, I don't have a Christmas tree. But that is not what I asked you. Do you know." Miss Breech stopped suddenly. Years of experience in the ways of boys warned her that this was not the way to go about this matter. Why should she force little Butch to tell on his friends? But there was little relenting in the tone with which she said, "All right; you go on home now, and take that dog with you. I don't want him muddying up my steps and porch." T is doubtful that Butch registered her tone or what she said. After his discovery that Miss Breech wasn't having a Christmas tree, his little one-track mind had refused to admit more than the one idea. "Okay," he said with his usual cheerfulness. A moment later he and Chippy were gone, neither giving so much as a backward look at the lonely spinster who was watching their departure. Miss Breech closed the door with a bang and went to hunt up her window cleaning tools, which she had put away earlier in the day. It did not take long to clean up the effects of the snowball, but anything is a hard chore when one is tired and lonely and a bit sorry for one's self on Christmas Eve. Miss Breech made herself a simple supper of hot milk and toast. She was too tired to do more. She was finishing the last piece of toast when the doorbell rang. She slowly walked to the door and opened it. (Continued on page 140) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMkEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE BABY: We love the baby and at all times we bid it a hearty welcome. With its hue of pinks and carnations and roses, its eyes bespeaking the tenderness just brought from a shore we cannot recall even in dreams, its voice so plaintive as to defy rudeness, and its whole presence so like the embodiment and eternal fitness of things superanimate—the angels themselves—how purifying is its presence and how sacred the influence which its presence implies!|—The Standard SHADOW-LAND Oh, what is this longing, this yearning to know? This germ of an impulse we cannot restrain? And why should it haunt me and follow me so, If the quest it awakens is fruitless and vain? Nay, I feel that beyond the scope of my dreaming, The star of intelligence onward is streaming. I call in the night-time for strength from on high, To open the flood-gates of knowledge for me, I wait and I listen, but only the sigh Of the murmuring winds, in quaint melody, Chant the song of my heart tho' its music is clear, We've lived heretofore in some loftier sphere. —E. B. W. MALAD STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Pres. O. C. Hoskins felt happy to hear the testimonies of the sisters. Spoke of the progress the Church is making; said it has cost the best blood of the nation, besides thousands of dollars, to bring us to the place we are standing in today. Spoke of the condition of our day schools and the necessity of teaching our children in the ways of the Lord. Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt thankful for the good instructions given in this conference; said as mothers we need information on a great many subjects especially those things pertaining to our. Religion.—Eliza A. Hall, Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: The Princess of Wales has given orders that nothing need be submitted for her inspection, or that of her daughters, in which birds are used as trimming. George Bancroft, the historian, is dead. He passed away at the age of ninety, full of years and honors. Tributes sent by the sovereigns of Europe, on the announcement of his death, were added to many similar ones here. The following fitting and appreciative. Words were spoken of him by A. R. Spofford, the Librarian of Congress, between whom and Mr. Bancroft the warmest al friendship existed for many years: "His is the most beautiful old age I have ever seen; calm, peaceful, cultured, surrounded by friends, and admired and revered by a whole nation, the drawing to a close of his life is as grand and beautiful and peaceful as the gradual fall of night on a mountain p eak, ""_Ex, ' Page 102 HEN Ellen Wilkinson, "beloved rebel," of Britain's Labor Party, died during the past year, both Prime Minister Clement R. Attlee and opposition leader Winston Churchill paid her high tribute. Red-haired Miss Wilkinson worked her way from dire poverty through higher university training and into the British political scene, where she has been a dominating figure for more than twenty years, fighting with fiery oratory for what she believed to be just. She was Minister of Education in the Labor Government, the second woman in British history to hold a cabinet office. MARYHALE WOOLSEY, contributor to The Relief Society Magazine and other western periodicals, and author of the words to "Springtime in the Rockies," won the Deseret News Christmas Story contest with her offering "Anything Lovely." ERTHA A. KLEINMAN of Mesa, Arizona, won third place with her poem, "The Empire of the Free," among 3,000 entries in the National 'Thanksgiving Association's annual poetry contest. The purpose of the organization is to render Thanksgiving Day a more religious and patriotic celebration through the expression of higher sentiments, displaying of the flag, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon and by study of the Mayflower Compact, and other historic documents. Her poem appears in the anthology This Is America, which also contains poems by two other Utahns, Grace Candland and Betty Wall Madsen. Me. RUTH WAHLOUIST, of Ogden, is state president of the American Association of University Women. Recently in this column we referred to Dr. Olivia McHugh as state president. This was an error. Dr. McHugh is president of the Salt Lake City chapter. HE, Bronte sisters, Charlotte, Emily, and Anne, and their unheroic brother, Bramwell, are once again the subjects of a biography, this time by Lawrence and E. M. Hanson, The Four Brontes (New York, Oxford University Press.) Readers become aware of their inmost reactions and of the intertwining of their lives. Charlotte's Jane Eyre and Emily's Wuthering Heights both appeared in 1847. An earlier excellent biography is Fanny Ratchford's Web of Childhood. UEEN ELIZABETH and King George of Great Britain sent to Mrs. Matilda Coppins, of Hastings, birthday greetings in late September. Mrs. Coppins, believed to be the oldest woman in the United Kingdom, turned 108. Page 103 o-5 EDITORIAL —~9 VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 1951 'Say Nothing But fRepentance Unto Shis Generation > N May 1829, almost a year before the organization of the Church, the key of the second great principle of the gospel—repentance— was restored to the earth. Repeatedly. Thereafter the Lord declared, "Say nothing but repentance unto this generation" (D.&C. 6:9). From that time it would seem conditions in the world have been such as todemand that the cry of repentance be heard continuously. 'The gospel message with its word of warning has spread slowly but irresistibly throughout the world. Still there remain large areas of the earth where the cry of repentance may not be heard, where any faithful are denied the voice of warning and the blessing of drinking of the waters of everlasting life. The tempo of world affairs accelerates and the wicked are rushing to their own destruction. In June 1829, the Lord warned, "The world is ripening in iniquity; and it must needs be that the children of. Men are stirred up unto repentance, both the Gentiles and also the house of Israel" (D. & C. 18:6). In February 1831, the Lord issued a warning, proclamation, and commandment. Upon his faithful servants he enjoined, "Lift up your voices and spare not. Call upon the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the Page 104 great day of the Lord" (D. & C. 43:20). Ever since that time the Church has obeyed this commandment through pronouncements and writings of the prophets of the Lord, and the call to repentance by the missionaries. A Latter-day Saint, viewing the dread situation which the world has brought upon itself through wickedness and iniquity, may question the power of an individual repentance. Let him recall these words of the Lord, "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth" (D. & C. 18:10, 13). Let him also recall that Abraham bargained with the Lord and was given the promise that the Lord would spare all the place, (Sodom and Gomorrah) if ten righteous should be found in it. Let him recall also that the city of Nineveh, comprising more than sixscore thousand persons, was spared from destruction because the people repented at the pleading of Jonah. Individual repentance can change the course of events. Parents in Zion not only are responsible for their own repentance, but the Lord has stated, "Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance... The EDITORIAL sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D. & C. 68:25). Children must be taught the. Meaning of repentance, "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins— behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D. & C. 58:43). The Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, but he promises, "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I the Lord remember them no mote." The person who is striving for perfection, continually repents of his past evils. When one fault or sin is overcome, there always remain other failings to conquer, if 105 he would become perfect as_ his Father in heaven and love his— neighbor as himself. Repentance leads him along the pathway to eternal life. The one hope of the world today lies in the repentance of the individuals comprising the nations of the earth. To all people everywhere the Lord will extend mercy if they come to him with broken hearts and contrite spirits. May the world heed the cry to repentance of the prophets of this day, and may every Latter-day Saint look to himself that he will be counted as a part of the leaven which will leaven the whole. —M. C. S. BIRTHDAY GREETINGS TO PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN February 7th ON this seventh day of February, 1951, Relief Society women in many lands, throughout the stakes and missions of the Church, extend their love and congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman, former general president of Relief Society. A brilliant, well-trained, and capable leader, Sister Lyman became a member of the general board in 1909. In 1940 she was appointed general president and served in that capacity until 1945, giving freely of her broad — vision, and her varied experience. Sister Lyman was president of the society during the centennial year of 1942 and officiated in the events of that memorable year. Sister Lyman is now literature class leader in her own ward, the Fast Twenty-seventh Ward in Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, where her gifts of educational and cultural background and her love of literature are being shared with her sisters in her ward Relief Society. Devoted to The Relief Society Magazine, Sister Lyman has worked for its success by urging all Latter-day Saint women to keep the Magazine = their homes and use its messages of inspiration for the benefit of their amilies. | Buying Food for the Family Contributed by the Utah State Nutrition Council Ruth P. Tippetts Consumer Education Specialist, OULD your habits bear a microscopic inspection to see how many buying judgments are based on "accurate information,' and how many are just "taking a chance"? Can you pick the right cut of meat for the price you want to pay, or does it seem to be sheer luck that one time you get a tender steak, and the next time, for the same price, a tough one? If canned salmon is available at several prices, can you tell which can is suitable for salmon loaf, salad, or a main dish? Do you give up in trying to evaluate, and just buy the cheapest? Or do you try to "play safe" and buy the most expensive? The job of purchasing the family food is a hard one, because the number of products to choose from is almost endless and, in some cases, there's no way of telling good from bad. A retail grocer, in talking about the different grades and price variations of tuna, said one can't always depend on either price or label to determine the quality of tuna. Often, in order to sell, a grocer will mark down the price on a first grade product, but the consumer, thinking it second or third grade, will avoid it. Producers and sellers often add to our confusion by pressuring us to buy their products. 'They appeal to our hidden desires and emotions, and we buy against our best judgment. Page 106. Utah State Agricultural College In order to know quality in products and receive the most satisfaction for money spent, the consumer can do three things: 1. Ask the advice of the person who sells the particular product. 2. Compare the labels on various brands of the same. Canned item for whatever information each gives. 3. Buy various brands of the same product and compare the contents, then buy whichever brand is most satisfactory. Some information may occasionally be gained through the experiences of friends and neighbors, or from listening to advertisements of products over the radio. However, care must be taken in buying highly advertised products, for many products not so highly advertised are of equal value and yet less in price. An honest analysis of needs and wants is the cornerstone of good shopping. Planning before buying saves both time and money. If you select what you want, after careful investigation, you get more for your money, and it's far more sensible to buy what you want than what you run into. To determine requirements before buying there are three decisions that must be made: 1. How much money can be spent? 2. What nutritional requirements must be met? 3. What are the taste preferences of the family? How much money can be spent will be determined by the food BUYING FOOD FOR THE FAMILY budget. In buying meat, for instance, if the budget is rather limited, stew cuts of meat give as much food value as more expensive cuts. But for taste preference and ease of preparation, perhaps the choice would be a T-bone steak. There's another thing not to be overlooked, and that is the matter 'of family happiness. Kale may be the best buy in the market, and of course it is filled with good vitamins and minerals. But if, no matter how deliciously you prepare it, the family refuses to eat it, then it is hardly a good buy. OW Ilet's take the weekly food shopping expedition. All through the week notes and ideas should be jotted down concerning the items needed and wanted. Perhaps on Wednesday the market adviser said that the strawberry season is in full swing and it's time to check on them for canning. Maybe Friday morning the advertisement from the corner grocery store listed reduced prices on canned peas and several citrus juices. Suppose the order would look something like this: Meat Department: 2 Ibs. Round (or flank) steak, commercial grade for stew 1 lb. Bacon 107 Fresh Produce: 1 head lettuce 1% Ibs. Broccoli, if fresh 1. Crate strawberries Groceries: 5 lbs. Granulated sugar (However, it is more economical to buy sugar in larger quantities. ) 1 No. 10 can orange juice (check price and brand) 1 large box quick-cooking oatmeal 2 No. 2 cans peas (check brand) 1 No. 2 can corn, cream style In the meat department the meat dealer will help you make selections, and your own experience and information will help in final choices. In the fresh produce department, you will be free to pick up and inspect the items, if done carefully, and perhaps you will select the nicelooking tomatoes if they are in season, in place of the broccoli, which looks rather tired. Yes, a weekly session with yourself — planning, giving serious thought to balancing your food budget, and also to balancing the diet itself — can bring dividends. What makes the greatest difference in the quality of your shopping may well be the half hour spent at home getting ready to buy, and in this way learning something about what you plan to buy. ~p>-< Defaulted Bertha A. Kleinman Don't weep too much if one you idolize Should totter on his pedestal and fall— From out the ruins he may still arise To find your friendship wasted—not at all. Conserve your tears, your powers to amend, For when you stand defaulted as a friend! "In the Twinkling of a Toe" Maryhale Woolsey HE sun was climbing up the brilliant sky and growing warmer by the minute. Madge Riley leaned on her garden rake and wished Janice Dowson would say what she had come over to say. Madge had so much to do today— grape jelly and jam to make, and pears to can; already ae were Overripe. She eyed Janice again with thie incredulousness she always felt for Janice's plumpness. It made Madge overconscious of her own still slender figure, and her energy, though she was past fifty-seven, and her hair was graying. Janice's was, too; but Janice retained an endless joy in living, whereas Madge had long since lost all will for anything but work. | Of course, Janice had her jolly big family—married sons and daughters and adorable grandchildren. Madge had only her one granddaughter, Colleen—who had never seemed close to her. Colleen had been a care, really! | "T hope you're going to the harvest. Ball tonight, Madge," Janice was urging suddenly. "I hear it'll be quite a celebration." Madge stiffened. 'This was it! "Oh?" she questioned. "Yes. Those kids have really accomplished things. Brenda—my Jerry's wife, you know—has been advising them a little. I'd be going myself, except that it's my teaching night. I may come later, anyway.' "T never go anyplace like that, Janice. You know that. I don't know why I should. Colleen has Page 108 -and other folks'. Told me almost nothing about it— except that Hap Franklin's so wonderful to let them use the company auditorium, and that the harvest ball really should have been held before school started. I don't even. Know what the girls have been doing, except working a lot harder at their projects than they're willing to work at."' She stopped abruptly. Did she know what any girls, other than Colleen, did at home? And even Colleen does what I've asked her to. It's her always hurrying to get away, as if home's hateful, that hurts! "But you really should be there tonight. It's not right that Colleen should be without anyone of her own to take an interest in what she's done.... Please, don't be hurt, Madge. I know how it's been for you; you've had my sympathy, But Colleen needs you—in ways she hasn't had you. Oh, my phone's ringing. Might be Jim calling from Woodside—he was going to!" Away Janice ran, awkwardly as a puppy, and as happily. Madge resumed her leaf raking. She worked rapidly; she'd have to hurry things a little... Surprisingly, she felt no negation in her. Not, "Shall I go?" Simply, "Tll have to hurry!" Perhaps it was because Janice had made her see it as a duty. Even her intense dislike of crowds—amounting to a_ phobia these recent years—seemed now a minor. Consideration. Over her work, Madge found her mind ex- "IN THE TWINKLING OF A TOE" ploring unaccustomed paths. What had been behind Janice's resolute admonition? Her hesitancy might infer something disagreeable; Colleen's wilfulness, her uncommunicativeness, her eagerness to be anywhere but at home—all these had indicated to Madge that Colleen was a "problem." She had been an ordeal from the beginning, her very presence a continual reminder of their bereavements, too many and near together, and too shocking not to have induced serious reaction. First, Madge's husband had died, then her son Gilbert had been killed in the war, and last, his young wife had been killed in an automobile accident—all within the space of a year. And Madge had been far from well, herself. No wonder she and Colleen had got off to a bad start, the sick and griefstricken grandmother and the bewildered, frightened child! But Madge had regained health and strength; Colleen had adjusted. What was the distance between them which could not be bridged? OLLEEN, fourteen now, was older than her years, with an air of knowingness and self-sufficiency which could easily have led her into difficulties. Still, in that case Madge surely would have heard; there would have been someone who would feel it a duty to inform her! Madge prepared dinner early and let it wait while she dressed, putting on a becoming full-skirted print dress she had bought a year ago but had never worn. Colleen, dashing in to bathe, eat, dress and "take off again," regarded her with surprised and wordless questioning. 109 "T'm coming to your ball. I hear it's too good to miss,' Madge said quietly. "Why—that's fine!" Was there a flash of consternation, turning to defiance, behind the widening brown eyes, an unsteadiness in the ted lips, so quickly pressed into a firm set line? Madge half smiled, noticing all at once how like her own firm jaw was the line of Colleen's! She went on talking matter-offactly, "I guess your club has been a good thing for you. For all of you girls, | mean." "Of course it has. We'd have | hated this long, hot summer if we hadn't had our projects to keep us busy. We're going to have it next summer, too, we think." There was a vehemence in Colleen's tone, and a guardedness. She determinedly picked up her fork and began to eat. "Oh, I have to go early, Grandmother. Do you mind?" "Of course not. I wouldn't expect you to change any arrangements because I decided at the last minute to come." "Okay, then... Thanks." Uncertainly, Colleen bent her face over her glass of water. A small frown wrinkled her smooth forehead. The meal continued in its customary silence, but with an undercur- — rent of tension. Having finished, Colleen hurried to her room to dress. Madge was hanging up her dish towel when Colleen reappeared in the kitchen. "Pm taking off," she said. And hesitantly added, "Grandmother, did you know I'm singing On our program?" "Why, no! Didn't you want me to know?" 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 "I sort of wanted to tell you but it might have seemed like I was—well—trying to get you to— to " Confused, Colleen stopped. Madge spoke gently, "Io come, especially to applaud you? It could have seemed that way, all might. Don't let it bother you." The frown disappeared. "Okay, then ".-.'. 2" "You look very pretty,' Madge called hurriedly. From the front door Colleen looked back, a picturebook gypsy. Her dark hair lay like a smooth satin cap. She wore a yellow-flowered, short-sleeved blouse of yellow cotton drawn up around the shoulders with a black ribbon, and a full skirt, black with colorful daisies and tulips bordering it. She could be going to a costume party, Madge thought, as she watched Colleen hurrying down the path. MACE brought out her coat and purse, and went out to sit awhile in the old rocking chair on the porch. In the west a faint rosy glow' lingered from. The sunset. Madge felt a nostalgia for sunsets of old days when broad green fields had stretched away to the hills; acres and acres of them had belonged to Mart and Madge Riley. Madge had sold them, piece by piece, reluctantly but profitably, seeing only folly in holding land she could not successfully employ. Her son had wanted only to be a flier; flying had taken him away—eventually, not to return. In the postwar building period Madge had continued selling, keeping for herself only an acre, with her house—old and shabby now among the smart, modern homes rising around it. The Dowson's place was nearest. 'The road was hard-surfaced and had attained a name, Broadview. Along it at nights lights glowed and twinkled on and off; voices and music and traffic noises replaced. Former - silences, and Madge learned deeper loneliness than ever. Colleen, presumably, found. Satisfactions elsewhere, as she was always "taking off." Madge stood up, drawing a long unsteady breath. She tested the lock of the door, and started down the path. Walking was pleasant; the staccato tap-tap of her heels on the sidewalk had a good sound. She arrived early, as anticipated; only a few seats were occupied by young people she did not know. She took a place near the front, and avoided looking back at the gathering crowd. For the first time, she felt a resentment at her continued aversion to social contacts; she won- 'dered if she ever would overcome it. She was relieved when finally the lights dimmed and the stage curtains opened. It was a good program, she thought, watching skits, stunts, and tap dancing. Hearing Colleen sing a couple of popular songs in the crooning, throaty modern style, was a surprise, but not too exciting, she decided.. Or could it be she couldn't appreciate it, she wondered as she left, lingering behind the crowd. Janice Dowson met her at the auditorium door. "I saw you and waited, thought we'd like seeing the exhibits together." | They made: the. Rounds of a miniature fair, viewing displays of handwork, paintings, wood carvings. Madge looked in each space for Colleen's name, finding it at the "IN THE TWINKLING OF A TOE" very last table with what at first seemed to be a doll's house. Then she saw that it was, instead, a home decoration project, with a cardboard house as a model, and sketches accompanying it. Madge caught her breath then, for the house was— her own! With a few alterations: a widened window, the fireplace reopened and restored, the "front room" and dining room made into one large lovely space by removal of the dividing wall. The "Before" sketches. Were flawless. Madge groaned inwardly. Did her house really look so unattractive, so uninviting? Janice, beside her, said softly, "You may as well look now, Madge. You've got a gifted girl on your hands." "It's my house." Madge's voice was flat. "She seems to have looked at it more than I ever thought she did." "No drastic changes," Janice murmured. "Mostly, she's done a bringing alive of it What a sense for color!'' Janice's tone spoke only honest admiration for Colleen's work. Madge was silent, trying to fathom Janice's deep thoughts and her own strange emotion.? THEN Janice was saying, "Shall we go in? They've cleared the floor for square dancing. It'll be fun to watch." It began as special exhibition dances, but, presently, the urge to participate took over the audience and soon the whole scene was one bright kaleidoscope of colorful animation and gayety. Madge found her own feet tapping in time with the music, old tunes she had not exne pected ever to hear again in such surroundings. 'Time slid backward, unrolling memories of decades. And she found herself smiling back at smiles from old friends, some of whom she had not seen in years. Suddenly, a white-haired but lively man was standing in front of her. "Madge Walters Riley, it's been a long time since you and I ornamented a dance floor together. Winnie and I are both in favor of our doing it again." "Well—Frank Peters! What are you doing back in this town?", "Vacation trip—visiting Ralph's folks: Come over and see Winnie. She saw you first and sent me over." He was leading Madge along the edge of the dance floor, in front of the seated spectators. Madge saw Winnie Peters' eager smile first, and then the wheel chair.. Pity swept her as she took Winnie's hand. "Madge—after all these years— wonderful to see you! We must have a good visit, but. Right now, dance with Frank, will you? He loves it so—and I can't; darn my legs. You two used to dance together so beautifully!" "They're starting the — varsovienne," Frank said. "Come on, Madge!"" He had drawn her onto the floor before she knew what was happening. Dismay filled her... This was ridiculous! Oh, = she couldn't! But she could; her feet remembered! And into her mind came silly little words learned long ago in a dancing class to help her master this very dance: " Do you see my, do you see my, do you see my new shoes?... With the tips on, with the tips on, with the tips on the toes!" With a sudden recklessness, 112. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 a surging will for adventure, Madge lifted her skirt in one hand, let her body sway into the music. Forward, back... Glancing down, she could see her patent-leather toes twinkling in and out beneath her skirt. She did not notice the crowd's thinning until all at once she realized that she and Frank alone were dancing in the center of a watching circle. Frank's smile and nod, his gay whispered, "Doin' okay, aren't we?" impelled her to continue. When the music stopped, applause roared around them. "Keep going!"" someone shouted; the music began again and, as if hypnotized, Madge nodded and took Frank's arm. T was later, after the adventure was ended and Madge was at home, getting ready for bed, that the reaction came.. What had possessed her? She'd made a fool of herself... The applause, the laughingcompliments, must have gone to her head completely. To those youngsters she was just an old lady, cutting capers—What did it matter? Besides, the dancing had been fun! She stretched her toes pleasurably between the cool sheets. She thought of Colleen. "Grandmother, you were wonderful!" Colleen had said. "TI didn't know you could dance like that!" Then, '"Kay's folks will bring me home. You ll go with Mrs. Dowson, won't you?" Colleen had not been smiling. What had been in her mind, behind the wide brown eyes? Madge lay still, trying to puzzle it out. And dreading the morning She 'slept at 'last and wakened to a gray sky and a wind gusty with ern type," Oh, well, | storm threat. Colleen was already up, and almost ready for school. Her "Good morning, Grandmother," was quiet as usual, but her eyes still wore the questioning look, and her young body was tense. "You sang very nicely, Colleen. And I thought your exhibit was lovely—and well-done." Colleen's tenseness relaxed. "Did you?. I didn't know whether you'd C like it." "T did wonder why you chose this old house instead of a new modMadge ventured. "Why—because this one interests me more," Colleen answered, surprised. "It's the one I like best." "You—like it best?. Really?" "Of course. It could be lovely," Colleen faltered, her cheeks flushing. "Of course, I understand it's already lovely to you, Grandmother. But I had to experiment with my ideas, I guess; you see, I want to be an interior decorator, some day. There can't be anything more wonderful to do, than making homes beautiful!" For one brief moment the wide eyes let fall their guarding mask. Madge could look behind and see the wistful dreams.... She wants to make homes beautiful! In that moment Madge Riley made a decision faster than ever before in her life. Watching Colleen's. Face closely, she asked, "Would you like to neem on this one, in reality?" Colleen gasped and stared. Then acceptance of what she had heard, transformed her... As the sun for a moment pierced the clouds and beamed across the kitchen, touching its dullness with gold. "Oh! You don't mean?". (Continued on page 142) From The Field d Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. CONVENTIONS, WELFARE WORK, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ida M. Dean GRANITE STAKE (UTAH), FOREST DALE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, October 2, 1950 Front row, seated, left to right: Nellie Whitaker (1946-47); Sentella Pace, present president; Printha Bitter (1929-30 and 1939-40). Back row, standing, left to right: Jennie Naegle Biesinger (1936-37); Eva Tobiason (1944-46); Ida M. Dean (1942-43); Laura Bradshaw (1937 and 1941); Agnes Lundgren (1938). Inset photographs: at left, Jeannette J. Fullmer (1931-35); and at right, Lucille C. Bennion (1940). These women represent twenty-one years as presidents of Forest Dale Ward, 1929 to 1950. Ida M. Dean is president of Granite Stake Relief Society. Page 113 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Photograph submitted by Laura M. Hawkes NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, VIRGINIA (MINNESOTA) RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WHO SUPERVISED A RUMMAGE SALE September 9, 1950 Left to right: First Counselor Maxine Crapo; Charlotte Bagley; Mary Culver; Secretary-treasurer Clara Niemi; Esther Moyle; second Counselor Violet H. Larson; seated, President Elvira Erspamer. | This photograph was taken in April 1950, when the women met to discuss plans for the rummage sale. The sale, held on September oth, was the first project of this kind sponsored by the Virginia Relief Society, and the profit made was $102. Missionaries assisting on the day of the sale were Donna Bird and Betty Ann Martinson. Laura M. Hawkes is president of the North Central States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Annie M. Ellsworth CENTRAL STATES MISSION, EAST OKLAHOMA DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, September 26, 1950 Front row, left to right: Laura Stephens, regional supervisor; Annie M. Ellsworth, President, Central States Mission Relief Society; Mary Krider, supervisor, East Oklahoma District. NOTES FROM THE FIELD M5 The other sisters in the photograph represent seven of the eight Relief Societies - in the district. This convention, the first one ever held in the East Oklahoma District, was planned by the mission Relief Society President, Annie M. Ellsworth, with the assistance of Sister Stephens and Sister Krider. Sister Katherine Vaclaw, President, Bartles- 'ville Branch, assisted with the various demonstrations, with the co-operation of the visiting teachers of her branch. Other officers who assisted with the convention were: Ella J. Hubler, Gore Community Relief Society (Oklahoma); Effie Reynolds, President, Ft. Smith Branch (Arkansas); Gladys Fortner, President, Muskogee Branch (Oklahoma); Joan Venable, President, Seminole Relief Society (Oklahoma); Hilda M. Barker, President, Henryetta Branch (Oklahoma); Margaret Oliver, President, Tulsa Branch (Oklahoma). Some of these sisters traveled as far as three hundred miles in order to receive instruction in the history, organization, and procedures of Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mabel A. Price CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA EAST DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION AND FASHION SHOW, WILMINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA Children in the foreground, left to right: Cheryl Padrick; Mary Henderson; Sarah Lee Flowers; Sandra, Lynn, and Karen Henderson. Back row, standing, left to nght: Lillie Leandis, Helen Henderson; Doris Flowers; Sister Durance (hidden); Eugenia Cochran; Myrna Henderson. Sister Mabel A. Price, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports that the fashion show, held in connection with the annual Relief Society convention, was a very fine demonstration ef what caa be done in the way of madeover clothing, with little or no money. Sister Myrna Henderson, with her three daughters, all had dresses made from scraps or remnants, at very little cost. Sisters Helen Henderson and Doris Flowers spent as little as $2 for both their mother's and daughter's dresses. In the background of the picture are quilts made with the star and crescent pattern by the different branches of the district. Some of the sisters who made these beautiful quilts had never worked on quilts until recently. Quilts were submitted by Dulah, Ash, Harkers Island, Chinquapin, and Wilmington Branches. Many of the articles of clothing and the handwork showed marked ability and skill. 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Fy Photograph submitted by Mildred G. Lamb CANADIAN MISSION, BROCKVILLE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 18, 1950:, Left to right: Ada Whiteley; Juliette Brown; Mildred Lamb; Joy Heckman; Miriam Forrester; Edna Morrison; Luella Ross; Vivian Wood Hill. The time and talents of these Relief Society sisters for the past six months were much in evidence at the first bazaar sponsored by this small branch. Ten women worked diligently in the preparation of home cooking, sewing, and handwork articles. The enterprise was successful not only in a monetary sense, but also as a means of introducing the Relief Society and its activities to the community. This Relief Society, as yet, is not fully organized and is presided over by young women missionaries. LaPriel R. Eyre is president of the Canadian Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mima C. Hainsworth and Georgina F. Richards' PORTLAND STAKE AND NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION DISPLAY OF PART OF THEIR WELFARE ASSIGNMENT October 23, 1950: The photograph represents only a small part of the articles completed for the 1950 Welfare assignment, which was exhibited during Relief Society convention. LESSON L=x HE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 32—'Personal Manifestations of God the Eternal Father and of His Son Jesus Christ in Modern Times"; and "Jesus the Christ to Return" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapters 41 and 42.) For Tuesday, May 1, 1951 Objective: To show that God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ, have manifested themselves on earth in modern times, and that Christ the Lord will return as a resurrected, glorified being to reign on earth. VEN though it is well known among Latter-day Saints, the account of the Prophet Joseph Smith's first vision in 1820 ought to be read as a part of the preparation of this lesson. (See Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:5-26.) The boy Joseph had been profoundly affected by the wave of religious agitation which swept the neighborhood in western New York where he resided. He came from an honorable, intelligent family. Most of the members had joined one or the other of the churches at Manchester. Young Joseph was puzzled. He was especially concerned: because of the bitterness among believers and even among the ministers when the so-called converts began to choose "or file off, some to one party and some to another." In the midst of this confusion he often asked: "Who of all these parties are right?... If any one of them be right, which is it, and how shall I know it?" Under all Page 118 the circumstances, that was a perfectly natural frame of mind. A New Dispensation. One day, while the boy was so disturbed, he was reading his Bible and caine to James 1:5, which reads: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." Is it not perfectly natural that this scripture should sink into the mind and soul of this boy? He had not been schooled in the man-made doctrine and sophistry of men that God no longer answered prayers directly when the necessity arose. He came ultimately to the conclusion that the only way he could get light was to ask God. He selected a secluded place in the woods and went to make the attempt. Surely, there was nothing wrong or irregular in his actions thus far. He was doing only what he had been told to do. Others. Had done LESSON DEPARTMENT 119 JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION it in ancient times, why could he not do it? After earnestly and sincerely praying, the heavens opened and there stood before him two glorious Personages. 'Their brightness and glory defied all description. One of them spoke unto Joseph, calling him "by name, and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son, Hear Him!' Critics have gone far out of their way to vilify and condemn Joseph 120 —, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 for saying that God heard and answered his prayer. -Why? He answered the prayers of Adam, Enoch, Moses, Abraham, Isaiah, the apostles whom Jesus called, and scores of others. Why was it wrong to answer Joseph? Surely the world needed direct communication from the heavens which were sealed during the Dark Ages. The boy's prayer was answered. He beheld and listened to the Father and his Beloved Son. He was told that none of the churches were tight and he was not to join any of them. They had a "form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." Except by members of his own family and a very few others, wherever he told of his experience, he was ridiculed and _ persecuted. One cannot help but wonder why there was not a Gamaliel in that community. (Read Acts 5:34-39-) 'The boy prophet had seen a vision; he knew he had and he knew that God knew. Praise be to his memory, he bore that testimony to his dying day. The dispensation of the fulness of times was ushered in by the personal appearance of the Eternal Father and Jesus, the Redeemer. It was the beginning of a glorious era of revelation and restoration of power from heaven. Note the ge _of events. A Messenger Sent From the Presence of God About three and one-half years after the appearance of the Father and Son to Joseph Smith and in answer to earnest prayer, a heavenly "messenger sent from the presence of God" appeared to the boy and - finding the place the next da visited with him during most of one entire night. 'The angel announced himself as Moroni, an ancient Nephite prophet, and, among many other things, told of a record engraven on plates of gold which contained a history of the ancient inhabitants of America and it contained also the fulness of the gospel of the Redeemer. In vision, Joseph was shown the place where the record was deposited. So clear was the vision that he had no trouble in y. The boy was directed by Moroni to tell his father of the vision and all that he had seen and heard. This he did and was told by his father to obey. Implicitly all the instructions given by the angel. Four years later the record was given to Joseph and, when translated by the gift and power of God, was published as the Book of Mormon. The Aaronic Priesthood Conferred by John the Baptist; the Melchizedek Priesthood Conferred by Peter, James, and John On the 15th day of May, 1829, the Aaronic Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph Smith and Olliver Cowdery by a heavenly messenget, John the Baptist, who acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John. John the Baptist predicted that the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood would be restored later. This prediction was fulfilled shortly after when the three presiding apostles came to Joseph and Oliver, conferring upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood and _ ordained them to the holy apostleship. The first baptisms in this dispensation were supervised by John LESSON DEPARTMENT the Baptist at the time he conferred the Aaronic Priesthood. Establishment of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Further Communications from the Heavens to Man The New Testament clearly bears record that Jesus organized his Church while upon earth. By revelation to Joseph Smith the Lord directed that his Church should again be organized in this day. Instructions were given as to how and when this should be done. In the revelation, the plan of Church government was given and detailed instructions as to baptism by immersion; the duties of the various offices in the Priesthood; confirming members; the correct form and meaning of the sacrament; and many other essential principles and ordinances were explained. "The Author of these several revelations declared Himself definitely to be Jesus Christ, God, the Son of God, the Redeemer, the Light and Life of the World, Alpha and Omega, Christ, the Lord, the Lord and Savior." 'There was no doubt of the necessity of the inauguration of a new dispensation of the gospel and a restoration of the Priesthood following the universal apostasy. All the power, keys, and authority necessary for the complete establishment of Christ's Church were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. The gospel is the "power of God unto salvation" and every key and power necessary has been restored in this day. Read D. & C. Sec. 76:11-24 for an account of a glorious revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ. 121 Personal Appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ in the Kirtland Temple; Jesus the Christ Is Church Today It is a great tribute to the faith and integrity of the early members of the Church that, within six years after the organization of the Church, the first temple in modern times was erected by them. Temples are distinctive and are "sacred to the ordinances of the Holy Priesthood" which may not be performed in chapels, or tabernacles. The first temple was built at Kirtland, Ohio. On the Sunday following the dedicatory service, after a service of solemn worship, the Lord Jesus Christ appeared to the Prophet Joseph and Oliver Cowdery in the temple (D. & C. 110: 1-10). Visits of other heavenly beings were made to Joseph and Oliver. Moses came and committed the keys of the gathering of Israel; Elias committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham; Elijah the prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death, came and delivered the sealing keys of this dispensation (D. & C. 110:11-16). | While the Prophet Joseph was martyred June 27, 1844, other apostles and prophets have been raised With His 'up, and the glorious work of the Redeemer has been carried forward. We believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God _ (Articles of Faith, No. 9). _ Jesus, our royal Leader, has and does manifest himself whenever it is necessary. "He points the way." 122. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 'Jesus the Christ to Return" (chapter 42) The Lord's Second Advent Predicted in Ancient Scripture; The Coming of the Lord Proclaimed Through Modern Revelation "By the second advent we understand not the personal appearing of the Son of God to a few, such as His visitation to Saul of Tarsus, to Joseph Smith in 1820, and again in the Kirtland Temple in 1836; nor later manifestations to His worthy servants as specifically promised; but His yet future coming in power and great glory, accompanied by hosts of resurrected and_ glorified beings, to execute judgment upon the earth and to inaugurate a reign of righteousness." That Christ the Lord will come again is clearly foretold in the scriptures. "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven" (Acts 1:11). The statements of Jesus himself, during his ministry upon earth, are direct and sure. Space will permit only one or two quotations: "For the Son of man shall come in the glory' of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works' (Matt. 16:27). When before the high priest as a prisoner, Jesus answered that official's adjuration, "that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God," by saying: "TI say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven" (Matt. 26:64). Class members should read carefully the 24th chapter of Matthew as revised by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Pearl of Great Price. The Lord revealed to righteous Enoch that he would come in the last days. In answer to that worthy man's question, the Lord said: As I live, even so will I come in the last days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance to fulfill the oath which I have made unto you concerning the children of Noah.... And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years (P. Of G. P., Moses 7:59, 60, 65). (See Isaiah 35:4; and 40:10.) The Book of Mormon also is clear and definite as to the second advent of the Savior (B. Of M., 3 Nephi 26:3, 4 and also 3 Nephi 28:7-8). In many places in the Doctrine and Covenants it is clearly and definitely revealed that the Messiah will come again to earth to rule and reign (See D. & C. 33:17-18; 34:4-12; 64:23). The Time and Accompaniments of the Lord's Coming | It has not been revealed to man just when the second advent of Christ will occur. We have the words of Jesus himself on this subject: "But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only" (Matt. 24:36). In this day the Eternal Father has made one of his rare announcements: "I, the Lord God, have spoken it, but the hour and the day no man knoweth, LESSON DEPARTMENT neither the angels in heaven, nor shall they know until he come." The faithful will watch and pray that the signs which are to precede his coming may be recognized. 'he wicked will not recognize the signs anyway. Prior to the second advent the land of Zion will be the only place of safety. There will be two capitals—one on the Western Continent and one on the Eastern Continent. 'The lost tribes shall come forth and Jesus will reign over all the earth. While his coming will not be the final judgment, it will be a time of 'great rejoicing for the righteous. At the final judgment the whole race of mankind shall stand in the resurrected state before the judgment bar of God to receive just recompense for the deeds done in life. When Jesus comes, he will bring those already resurrected and there will be a resurrection of the righteous dead. The pure and righteous who are still in the flesh shall be caught up to meet the Lord. (See I Thess. 4:14-17.) The Kingdom of Heaven to Come A distinction is made in modern revelation between the "kingdom of God," which is the Church with full and complete divine authority, and the "kingdom of heaven," which is the "divinely ordained system of government and dominion in all matters, temporal and spiritual; this will be established in earth only when its rightful Head, the King of Kings, Jesus the Christ, comes to reign." (Read D. & C. Sec. 65.) 123 The Millennium When the kingdom of heaven is established upon earth and Christ reigns personally, a new era will be ushered in and for a thousand years peace and good will among all people will prevail. During that period Satan will be bound and the wicked who have died will remain unresurrected until the end of the Millennium. The faithful in Christ may look forward to a glorious period in earth's history. (Read P. Of G. P., Moses 7:63-65.) The Celestial Consummation The vanquishment of Satan and his hosts shall be complete. The dead shall all be resurrected and shall stand before God to be judged according to the record, and the glorious mission of the Christ shall be consummated. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he: shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death (I Cor. 15:24-26). Then shall he be crowned with the crown of his glory, to sit on the throne of his power to reign forever and ever (D. & C. 76:108). The earth shall become glorified and celestialized and those who have been exalted will abide there forever. "'Forever shall they reign, kings and priests to the Most High, redeemed, sanctified, and exalted through their Lord and God, Jesus the Christ." Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Relate Joseph Smith's account of the First Vision. Show its consistency with 124 God's previous appearances. 2. Enumerate the keys which have been committed or restored in this generation. 3. What are some of the signs which are to precede the second coming of the Savior? 4. What is the Millennium? References in the Gospels Matt. 16:27; 19:28; 24; 25:13; 26:64. Mark 8:38; 13:26, 32-37. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Luke 9:26; 12:39, 40; 21:5-36. John 2:28. See also, B. Of M. 3 Nephi 12:9, 10; 26:3, 4; 27:27; 28:7, 8; 29:2; Mormon 6:6; Moroni 10:2. D. & C. Sections 5, 6, 8, 10-20; 21:11; 27:8, 12, 13; 29:8-17, 22; 33:17, 18; 34:4-8; 36:8; 42:36; 43:18, 30-34, 40; 45:37-44, 68-71; 49:7,. 23-25, 28; 63:50, 51; 64:23-25; 65; 76:11-110; 84:63, 64; 88:86-92, 95-98; 95:4; 97:15, 16; 101:23-32. P. Of G. P., Joseph Smith 1:31, 36; 2:5-59, 68-69. Moses 7:59, 60, 63-65. Ussiting Seacher Tlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 16—"Lo, | Am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the World" (Matt. 28:20). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, May 1, 1951 Objective: homes visited. URING a period of three years there have been carried into tens of thousands of homes (through the efforts of a vast corps of faithful visiting teachers), inspirational sayings of the Savior. Twenty-three messages in all have been given. Now, with the twentyfourth, with which we conclude this series, "Our Savior Speaks," it seems desirable to have left with those visited the following appropriate declaration of the Master, "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt. 28:20). What reassurance and comfort, in this day of perplexity, to know that this promise is to each one of us who is willing to keep Christ's To leave a concluding message of hope and comfort in all of the commandments. In a time of fear and uncertainty we may have as-. Surance, for he has said: "Let not your heart be troubled: neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). These words are to be found in the fourteenth chapter of John, one of the most impressive and beautiful chapters in the whole of the New Testament. We suggest that the beauty of this chapter be pointed out and that the following excerpts from it be read in the homes visited as a fitting conclusion to this series of visiting teacher messages: In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you I will come again, and receive LESSON DEPARTMENT you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.... I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it. If ye love me, keep my commandments.... I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: 125 because I live, ye shall live also.... Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." Work Tleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Table Settings and Service Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 8, 1951 LTHOUGH. The previous articles in this series of lessons have emphasized primarily the home decorating aspects of homemaking, a discussion of this important subject would be incomplete without a consideration of table settings and the art of serving food attractively. It is not the purpose of this lesson to discuss the preparation of food nor the development of recipes. Rather, we are concerned here with how to achieve attractive and inviting table settings. There is little doubt but that the way food is served is second in importance only to the food itself. The same good wholesome food can be made more or less appetizing, depending upon:-the thought and care used in serving it. Furthermore, mealtimes and the serving of food offer the thoughtful homemaker some important and unusual opportunities: First, in most families, mealtime provides the best regular occasions for getting the members of the family together as a group, and for establishing a home atmosphere of friendliness, understanding, and thanksgiving. Second, well-served food sets the pattern for the development of correct social habits on the part of the children, which will do so much to help them develop well-balanced personalities. Third, the serving of food has important social implications. It is a fundamental part of the entertainment of friends and relatives. On those occasions when neighbors and friends are invited into the home, the way refreshments are served, formally or informally, can make lasting impressions, and can do much to strengthen the bonds of friendship and understanding. In today's decorating, table settings are considered a fundamental 126. _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 part of the over-all decorative scheme. Many of the new books on interior decorating have separate sections which treat this important phase of homemaking. 'There is hardly a home magazine which does not feature ideas and suggestions for attractive table settings and food service. One of the first steps in achieving attractive table settings consists in the choice of table coverings. Fundamentally, the same basic principles which are used as guides in the selection of home furnishings may be applied to the choice of table linens, china, and glassware, and in the creation of table decorations. This is true in respect to formality and informality in table settings, as well as in the use of color. Fragile porcelains with traditional designs and colorings seem naturally to suggest a more formal type of table setting. With this type of china we would use fine linens, organdies, laces, or finely woven rayon cloths and table mats. This does not mean, however, that with this type of china we must always be content to dress our tables in traditional white cloths. Color can be a fascinating and stimulating part of our table settings. In fact, china with a cream or ivory background, often looks more at home on a delicate pastel cloth of pink, ivory, green, or blue. If your dinnerware is one of the lovely semi-porcelain patterns or a gay pottery, there are limitless possibilities in colors and fabrics which can be used to help put gaiety into table setting and fun into housekeeping. 'Table coverings of a self. More rough type of texture, in brighter colors, with bold designs, plaids, and stripes can be used effectively with pottery, as long as it is in keeping with the general color and design of the dinnerware itTable coverings which har- ~ monize, contrast, or pick up and emphasize some hue in the china can make table setting fun and food look glamorous. One important guide to follow in choosing table linens is similar to the "rule of three" in home decorating. A dinnerware bold in design, with a conspicuous pattern, usually looks its best when set off with a plain white or solid colored cloth. A stripe or plaid can be used with an informal patterned pottery. On the other hand, solid colored dinnerware often takes on new life and freshness when used with a gaily patterned cloth. All china used on the table need not be of the same pattern or color. Effective table settings can be created by using patterned dinner plates with solid blending colored cups and saucers, dessert or salad plates. Variety in table settings can also be achieved by using colored glassware and crystal which contrast or harmonize with a hue in the china. In the field of table accessories and centerpieces, imagination and ingenuity can be exercised to the maximum as long as the elements of good taste dominate. Of course the more conventional type of table decorations are always appropriate, such as the use of flowers or fruit. In addition to these more common types of table decoration, there are countless and unusual possibilities LESSON DEPARTMENT in various garden vegetables and berries. For example, highly polished purple egg plant, green peppers, and, for texture, dark green artichokes skillfully arranged with a few sprays of ivy, or some other garden green, look cool and inviting. This type of centerpiece would be especially appealing if arranged on a light pink table cloth and used with china with a pink and purple design. As emphasized in the beginning of this lesson, food itself, to be appetizing, should also look appealing. Color, too, plays an important part in the selection of foods. Bright red tomatoes, white potatoes, green peas, or a similar green vegetable, cooked to retain its color, then served with dark brown meat, is not only highly nutritious, but appealing looking as well. Rich color contrasts in food not only flatter the food, but by so doing actually make it more digestible. On the other hand, a meal composed of white fish, white potatoes, turnips, cabbage, cauliflower, or onions, would probably meet the needs of wholesome nourishment, but would fall far short of attractive appearance. Such a meal, because of lack of color contrasts, would be drab and unappetizing. 'The thoughtful homemaker plans menus which are 127 not only nutritious but colorful as well. To summarize, care and thoughtfulness in the serving of food are essential to successful homemaking. Lasting satisfactions come from serving simple foods in appealing ways. It is important, too, to remember that these satisfactions can be obtained with little expense to the family in the purchase of china, table linens, and other table accessories. It costs no more to achieve sparkling colorful combinations than it does to do it the drab, uninteresting way. It all depends upon the employment of a little imagination and good taste. Discussion Points 1. Discuss: the care of table linens; importance of removing stains promptly; how to store table linens (keeping in mind that they should be stored in a cool, dry place, away from radiators and steam pipes). Why should linen, to be stored for a long time, not be starched, and why should creases be avoided? 2. How table silver can be cared for? Why is rinsing so important in the washing and care of silver? What can be done to avoid scratching silver? 3. Discuss how the serving of food attractively can help children develop wellbalanced personalities. 4. Why is food that looks appealing actually more digestible? "T have always thought that all men should be free; but if any should be slaves, it should be, first, those who desire it for themselves, and, secondly, those who desire it for others." —Abraham Lincoln 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 | Siterature—The Literature of England Lesson 16—Samuel Johnson and James Boswell Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 15, 1951 URING our present course of study various authors have passed before us, each bearing upon his tray that gift, or that combination of talents, in which he excels and which will most ravishingly dazzle us. Alternately, their high achievements, conveying to us beauty, power, majesty, depth, wit, satire, moral force and whimsical play, have exacted from us willing tributes of admiration, respect, and _ gratitude. It is now fitting that our season end by our studying a man who brings to us many gifts, while demanding of us nothing but a sharp attention; and yet to him we are inwardly forced to give that which neither can be demanded nor priced; our understanding and our love. It was one of Samuel Johnson's most powerful critical beliefs that literature is not an end in itself. He believed, and practiced, that Virtue is the highest proof of understanding and the only solid basis of greatness; and that vice is the natural consequence of narrow thoughts; that it begins in mistake and ends in ignominy (Rambler, No. 4; text, page 1048, lines 82-6). For him the greatest justification of literature was its ability to teach religion and the moral virtues. "Re- 'ligion is the only source of whatever happiness we have," he wrote, and early in his career he states as his own purpose, which was also that of the Rambler, "the propagaA Perry Picture SAMUEL JOHNSON tion of truth... To inculcate wisdom or piety.". Throughout his life he was devoutly religious, Christianity and the moral virtues being the values which he loved more than literature and criticism. The relationship between these realms is clearly pointed out in Johnson's observation that "He who thinks reasonably must think morally," a surprising statement indeed from England's last literary dictator who, as the final dominant voice of the Neo-Classical Age, honored reason as the cornerstone upon which all LESSON DEPARTMENT great art and philosophy must be built. Always he took refuge from his own abysmal spells of melancholy in his simple, unswerving Christian faith. Here was his truth, his rock. What Taine said of him in criticism of his failure to compromise, we can repeat in praise: "His truths are too true." Here we find that rare integrity of thought and action which ever walks hand in hand with greatness. From another point of view, Johnson made literature, particularly biography, a means to another end. One of the greatest biographers in English literature, Johnson particularly valued this form of literature because he believed it to be "of all kinds of narrative writing that which is most easily read and applied to the purposes of life" (Idler, No. 84). But in his excellent Life of Savage, as in the fiftytwo sketches which comprise his Lives of the Poets (text, page 1053), Johnson was interested in the literature each man wrote only so far as it revealed to us the qualities of the poet himself; always his great aim was to define the man behind the work. But in doing this, Johnson never sugar-coated his subjects in order to prove a moral or preach a lesson. He told the whole truth; then the evident morals to be drawn were true as well. As he said to Boswell, The value of every story depends upon its being true. A story is a picture whether of an individual or of human nature in general; if it be false, it is a picture of nothing (Life of Johnson, II, 496). Thus, for Johnson, biography was a useful tool whereby a skillful 129 artist might reveal and perpetuate great human personalities. Never did teacher teach so well as did Johnson when he taught his critical principles of the art of biography to James Boswell. Johnson himself, at the hands of James Boswell, became the subject of the greatest biography in all English literature, if not the greatest ever written. At the same time he became the best-known and best-loved figure in the English tradition. Thus it is that generations have known him more intimately than any other literary personage, without ever reading a word he has written. In the century following Johnson, Walt Whitman wrote of his own Leaves of Grass: This is no book Who touches this, touches a man! This also might be eminently true of Boswell's Life of Samuel Johnson (text, page 1067), but it is not the whole truth, since it presents only the oral Johnson, magnificent as this portrait is. In order to know the complete man, we must allow him to "speak for himself." But before we go to his writings, we should first sketch the events of his life. Samuel Johnson was born in Lichfield in 1709 to a bookseller and his middle-aged wife who, typical of their trade, were respected but poor. At school, where he had a great deal of Latin whipped into him, he was brilliant, but far more interested in reading voraciously in his father's bookshop. He attended Oxford a little more than a year and then his poverty forced him to leave. While still in his twenties, ~ 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 JAMES BOSWELL he married a woman almost twenty years his senior. He did hack writing before and after this marriage; he also attempted school teaching. Failing in this, he went to London where he continued grinding out enough words to make a living, but he was terribly poor, and was imprisoned several times for debt. He loved his wife devotedly, and when she died he was still obscure and in need; losing his companion was therefore a crushing experience. He had won praise from Pope for his poem "The Vanity of Human Wishes," and the worth of his Life of Savage in 1755, the first enjoyable, comprehensive dictionary in English. With no encouragement or financial aid (see his letter to Lord Chesterfield, text, page 1051), he worked on the project for eight years. Still notable for its spontaneous humor and excellent definitions (see text, page 1045), the Dictionary was long the standard of English usage. A typical During this period, Dr. Johnson also published the Rambler (1750- 52) and the Idler (1758-60), periodical essays which revealed his scholarship, intellectual honesty, warm-hearted kindliness, and above all the intense, masculine power of his literary style (text, pp. 1046-51). Not only do we find herein illustrious common sense seen with a keen eye, but also a certain direct, condensed quality of style which at once gets to the heart of the problem and in few words clarifies the issue and states the author's usually reliable opinion. "Romances and Morality" discusses the problem of teaching virtue to the young and innocent through fiction which is not factually accurate and which might contain evil examples which the author might define as good. "Mr. Minim as a Critic" (text, page 1048) is a telling satirical attack on literary critic, whose "opinion was asked by all who had no opinion of their own, though they loved to debate and decide," yet who, until he... Knows the success of a composition,. Intrenches himself in general terms. -He has several favorite epithets of which he has never settled the meaning, but which are very commodiously applied to books which he has not read, or cannot understand. One is manly, another is dry, another stiff, and another flimsy; sometimes he discovers delicacy of style, and sometimes meets with strange expressions (text, page 1049, 87 ff.). In the essay on "Books" from the Idler, Johnson is concerned that so many books promise their readers short cuts to learning and wisdom "on easier terms than our progenitors." He also finds most new books LESSON DEPARTMENT but rephrasing of older books which in themselves might have been valuable. It is observed that "a corrupt society has many laws," and I know not whether it is equally true that an ignorant age has many books. When the treasures of ancient knowledge lie unexamined, and original authors are neglected and forgotten, compilers and plagiaries are encouraged, who give us again what we had before, and grow great by setting before us what our own sloth had hidden from our view (text, page 1050, 72 ff.). In 1762, for what he had done and not for what he was to do, Johnson was granted an annual pension of three hundred pounds by the Tory government; henceforth his life was ease, good food, good talk, and doing as he pleased. He became the Johnson whom Boswell immortalizes, who "loves to fold his legs and have his talk out." His greatest sin had always been indolence, and this new carefree existence did not encourage him to create and write (which is the hardest work in the world) when he could visit a coftee-house or tavern where, as he wrote: As soon as I enter the door, I experience an oblivion of care, and a freedom from solicitude.... I dogmatize and am contradicted, and in this conflict of opinions and sentiments I find delight. However, in 1756, when he had been famous but destitute, he had received money from many _ subscribers for a new edition of Shakespeare which he planned to edit and publish. His refusal to face this task became disgraceful, and he sent himself reproachful notes. In 1764 he wrote, '""My indolence has sunk into grosser sluggishness. A kind of _ 137 strange oblivion has overspread me, so that I know not what has become of the last year." Finally, after being publicly nicknamed "Pomposo," the "great moralist" who had cheated his subscribers, Johnson produced the promised work in 1765, nine years after it was promised. The preface was particularly excellent, showing how he fearlessly denied whatever artificial rules of Neo-Classicism interfered with a just evaluation of Shakespeare's genius. When he was seventy-two and had long been unchallenged as the greatest power and literary critic in England, he published his Lives of the Poets (text, page 1053), still one of the best critical works we have. While Johnson made such notable mistakes as underestimating Milton, particularly his "Lycidas," his critical insight was usually nothing short of brilliant, as was his balanced, majestic style. Consider, for example, the following: The style of Dryden is capricious and varied; that of Pope is cautious and untform. Dryden obeys the motions of his own mind; Pope constrains his mind to his own rules of composition. Dryden is sometimes vehement and rapid; Pope is always smooth, uniform, and gentle. Dryden's page is a natural field, rising into inequalities, and diversified by the varied exuberance of abundant vegetation; Pope's is a velvet lawn, shaven by the scythe, and leveled by the roller (text, page 1059, 46 ff.). " Such a diet must be taken in small bites and chewed slowly; rarely is writing so concentrated. But it is rich to overflowing, as was the mind that produced it. Throughout the selections in our text from Johnson's writings one 132 -.. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 195] can find similar passages: clear, precise, energetic, sometimes humorous, and always dignified and polished. If occasionally he uses big words, the rugged strength of his thought soon carries us away. The direct forthrightness of his manner reminds us that Johnson had throughout his lifetime thought intensely, and now knew what he thought; he believed in the rightness of his judgment. At times he was bullheaded (he was called the "Great Bear'). Often he was brusque; rarely was he impolite. But for his sins we forgive him, particularly when he not only defines as the true enemies of criticism, "the anarchy of ignorance, the caprices of fancy, and the tyranny of prescription," but throughout his life so scrupulously avoided these timeless hazards to forming a "just estimate" of literature, and of life. Johnson's letters (text, pp. 1051- 1052) are as a bridge between his more formal writings and his completely informal self brought to life in the pages of James Boswell. But, for a completely intimate picture of this slovenly, eccentric, lovable genius, we must go directly to Boswell, who until recently was not acknowledged as the great artist that he was. —, Born in 1740 in the Edinburgh which Johnson roundly abhorred, as he did all Scots, James Boswell was born into a wealthy family, educated at Edinburgh and Glasgow University, and reared as the son of a gentleman. When he was twenty-three years of age he first met Johnson; then he made a grand tour of the Continent, and later returned to London where, after some hesitation because of his somewhat unstable habits, he was admitted as a member into Johnson's "Club." He told Dr. Johnson of his desire to record his life, and Johnson agreed to assist him. At Boswell's suggestion, the two friends made a tour of the Scottish Hebrides Islands when Johnson was well past middle age, all to enable the reporter to study his subject more carefully. Although the two knew each other for more than twenty years, they were together less than three hundred days. In this relatively brief time, Boswell caught the essence of Johnson with such reality that oftentimes in reading Boswell's book we forget there ever was a Boswell, so actually does Johnson seem to be with us in the room, shaking his head, rubbing his knee, and blowing out his breath like a sperm whale to show his disgust. Boswell, of course, could not have succeeded so brilliantly had he not chosen so salty and vigorous a subject. But, having recognized in foes the great character he had always dreamed of sketching, Boswell followed him about with a faithfulness no less remarkable than his ability to write down in his notes every evening the pertinent conversations—not word for word, but so skillfully selected that he made Johnson more Johnsonian than he really was, as recent scholarship has proved. By such skillful selection of the most characteristic words and gestures of Johnson; by being able to catch the significance of the most minute detail, Boswell re-created the very texture of Johnson's speech, habits, manners and mind. Concerned only with representing the LESSON DEPARTMENT true Johnson, he exaggerated nothing, nor did he omit unflattering details—he merely told what he knew to be so. Had he used any other method, he would not have succeeded so magnificently as he has in making Johnson immortal. To someone who has never tasted it, the taste of strawberries and cream cannot be described; neither can the feeling of transport, and nearness to a great man, which one receives repeatedly from each page of Boswell (see text, pp. 1067-1083 ). Here indeed is great literature, written about the great character, by a skilled, self-effacing, but nonetheless great artist. Few passages should be more enjoyable than those you select from Boswell to read aloud to your group. While, in Dryden's phrase, "Here is God's plenty," it will probably but whet 133 your desire to read more of Boswell than our text contains. Katherine Mansfield has told us that "Literature is an initiation into truth." Here we find truth and goodness and greatness; equally important is our realization that, here at least, these high virtues can be coupled with great delight and humanity as well. Questions for Discussion 1. What was Johnson's theory of biography? What was it for? How could it achieve greatness? 2. Why was Johnson called "the great moralist'"'? 3. Why is his Dictionary important? Why memorable? 4. Why is Johnson referred to as the "last of England's literary dictators'? 5. Suggest reasons to justify the statement that Boswell's Life of Samuel Johnson is perhaps the greatest biography ever written. EY | a ience— re Progress of Man Part —The Lesson of History Lesson 7—Universal Peace Must Come From God Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 4.) For Tuesday, May 22, 1951 Objective: To prove that man-made governments have always failed tragically; and that it needs the wisdom, intelligence, and power of God to bring universal peace and happiness. Joseph Smith on Government HE following article was written by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he was editor of the Times and Seasons, a publication issued by the Church in Nauvoo, Illinois. This editorial appeared in the issue for July 15, 1842, and is found in Vol. 3, pages 855-858. It would seem that this editorial was prepared expressly for our present day. If it was timely in 1842 as a warning and for instructions, it is much more so today. The remainder of this les- 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 son consists of excerpts from this editorial written by the ee Joseph Smith. The Government of God by the Prophet Joseph Smith "The government of the Almighty has always been very dissimilar to the governments of men, whether we refer to his religious government, or to the government of nations. The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness; while that of man has been productive of confusion, disorder, weakness, and misery. Man's Government Brings Misery and Destruction "The greatest acts of the mighty men have been to depopulate nations and to overthrow kingdoms; and whilst they have exalted themselves and become glorious, it has been at the expense of the lives of the innocent, the blood of the oppressed, the moans of the widow, and the tears of the orphan. "Egypt, Babylon, Greece, Persia, Carthage, Rome—each was raised to. Dignity amidst the clash of arms and the din of war; and whilst their triumphant leaders led forth their victorious armies to glory and victory, their. Ears were saluted. With the groans of the dying and the misery and distress of the human family; before them the earth was a paradise, and behind them a desolate wilderness; their kingdoms were founded in carnage and bloodshed, and sustained by oppression, tyranny, and despotism. The designs of God, on the other hand, have been to promote the universal good of the universal' world; to establish peace and good will among men; to promote the principles of eternal truth; to bring about a state of things that shall unite man to his fellow man; cause the world to 'beat their swords into plowshares, and their swords into pruning hooks.' make the nations of the earth dwell in peace, and to bring about the millennial glory, when 'the earth shall yield its increase, resume its paradisean glory, and become as the garden of the Lord.' Failure of the Governments of Men "The great and wise of ancient days have failed in all their attempts to promote eternal power, peace, and happiness. 'Their nations have crumbled to pieces; their thrones have been cast down in their turn, and their cities, and their mightiest works of art have been annihilated; or their dilapidated towers of time-worn monuments have left us but feeble traces of their former magnificence and ancient grandeur. 'They proclaim as with a voice of thunder those imperishable truths—that man's strength is weakness, his wisdom is folly, his glory is his shame. "Monarchial, aristocratical, and republican governments of their various kinds and grades have, in their turn, been raised to dignity and prostrated in the dust. 'he plans of the greatest politicians, the wisest senators, and most profound statesmen have been exploded; and the proceedings of the greatest chieftains, the bravest generals, and the wisest kings have fallen to the ground. Nation has succeeded na- LESSON DEPARTMENT | tion, and we have inherited nothing but their folly. History records their puerile plans, their short-lived glory, their feeble intellect, and their ignoble deeds. Has Man Increased in Intelligence? "Have we increased in knowledge or intelligence? Where is there a man that can step forth and alter the destiny of nations and promote the happiness of the world? Or where is there a kingdom or nation that can promote the universal happiness of its own subjects, or even their general well-being? Our nation, which possesses greater resources than any other, is rent, from center to circumference, with party strife, political intrigues, and sectional interest; our counselors are panic stricken, our legislators are astonished, and our senators are confounded, our merchants are paralyzed, our tradesmen are disheartened, our mechanics out of employ, our farmers distressed, and our poor crying for bread, our banks are broken, our credit ruined, and our states overwhelmed in debt, mk, we are and have been in peace. Man is not able to govern himself, to legislate for himself, to protect himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. The Design of Jehovah "It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is His purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; an- 135 archy and confusion will be destroyed, and 'nations will learn war no more. It is for want of this great governing principle, that all this confusion has existed; 'for it is not in man that walketh, to direct his steps;' this we have fully shown. "If there was anything great or good in the world, it came from God.. Wisdom to govern the house of Israel was given to Solomon, and to the judges of Israel; and if he had bifaest been their king, and they subject to his mandate, and obedient to his laws, they would still have been "a great and mighty people—the rulers of the universe, and the wonder of the world.... So will it be when the purposes of God shall be accomplished: when 'the Lord shall be King over the whole earth,' and 'Jerusalem His throne.' "The law shall go forth from Zion, and the word. Of the Lord from Jetusalem. "This is the. Only thing that can bring about the 'restitution of all things spoken of by all the holy Prophets since the world was'— 'the dispensation of the fulness of times, when God shall gather together all things in one.' Other attempts to promote universal peace and happiness in the human family have proved abortive; every effort has failed; every plan and design has fallen to the ground; it needs the wisdom of God, the intelligence of God, and the power of God to accomplish this. The world has had a fair trial for six thousand years; the Lord will try the seventh thousand Himself; 'He whose right it is, will possess the kingdom, and reign until He has put all things under His feet, iniquity will hide its 136 hoary head, Satan will be bound, and the works of darkness destroyed; righteousness will be put to the line, and judgment to the plummet, and 'he that fears the Lord will alone be exalted in that day ' Earth Now Groaning Under Corruption a "The earth is groaning under corruption, oppression, tyranny and bloodshed; and God is coming out of his hiding place, as he said he would do, to vex the nations of the earth. Daniel, in his vision, saw convulsion upon convulsion; he 'beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of Days did sit;) and one was brought before him like unto the Son of Man; and all nations, kindred, tongues, and people, did serve and obey him. It is for us to be righteous, that we may be wise and understand; for none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand, and they that turn many to righteousness shall shine as the stars for ever and ever. | | It Behooves Us to Be Wise "As a Church anda people it behooves us to be wise, and to seek to know the will of God, and then be willing to do it; for 'blessed is he that heareth the word of the Lord, and keepeth it,' say the Scriptures. "Watch and pray always,' says our Savior, 'that ye may be accounted worthy to escape the things that are to come on the earth, and to stand before the Son of Man.' If Enoch, Abraham, Moses and the. Children of Israel, and all God's people were saved by keeping the commandments of God, we, if saved at — only RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 all, shall be saved upon the same principle. As God governed Abraham, Isaac and Jacob as families, and the children of Israel as a nation; so we, as a Church, must be under His guidance if we are prospered, preserved and sustained. Our only confidence can be in God; our, wisdom obtained from Him; and He alone must be our protector and safeguard, spiritually and temporally, or we fall. "We have been chastened by the hand of God heretofore for not obeying His commands, although we never violated any human law, or transgressed any human precept; yet we have treated lightly His commands, and departed from His ordinances, and the Lord has chastened us sore, and we have felt His arm and kissed the rod; let us be wise in time to come and ever remember that 'to obey is better than sactifice, and to hearken than the fat of > Tams. The Saints Subject to Divine Counsel "In regard to the building up of. Zion, it has to be done by the counsel of Jehovah, by the revelations of heaven; and we should feel to say, 'If the Lord go not with us, carry us not up hence.' We would say to the Saints that come here, we have laid the foundation for the gathering of God's people to this place, and they expect that when the Saints do come, they will be under the counsel that God has appointed. The Twelve are set apart to counsel the Saints pertaining to this matter; and we expect that those who come here will send before them their wise men according to revela- LESSON DEPARTMENT tion; or if not practicable, be subject to the counsel that God has given, or they cannot receive an inheritance among the Saints, or be considered as God's people, and they will be dealt with as transgressors of the laws of God. We are trying here to gird up our loins, and purge from our midst the workers of iniquity; and we hope that when our brethren arrive from abroad, they will assist us to roll forth this good work, and to accomplish this great design, that "Zion may be built up in righteousness; and all nations flock to her standard;' that as God's people, under His direction, and obedient to His law, we may grow up in righteousness and truth; that when His purposes shall be accomplished, we may receive an inheritance among those that 'are sanctified" (D. H. C. V, pp. 61-66). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Under what conditions have nations prospered? 137 2. When have nations crumbled and fallen? 3. Cite examples from the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price, the Book of Mormon and the Bible to show that God's government promotes happiness, peace, unity, harmony, and strength. 4. Prove from other examples that manmade governments are productive of confusion, disorder, weakness, misery, bloodshed, oppression, destruction, and ruin. 5- Justify the statement that without God, the plans of the wisest statesmen and the greatest rulers have fallen to the ground. Are there modern examples of this?, 6. Present evidences that "if there was anything great or good in the world it came from God." 7- In the light of the lesson of past and present history show that this conclusion of the Prophet is correct: "Other attempts to promote universal peace and happiness in the human family have proved abortive; every effort has failed; every plan and design has fallen to the ground; it needs the wisdom of God, the intelligence of God, and the power of God to accomplish this."' Vlusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING (For Music Department at Union Meeting) Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall Lesson 8—New Hymns, Anthems, and Standard Literature About Music Florence ]. Madsen Objective: To bring to our organizations added interest through new music and a wider knowledge and a deeper appreciation of its value and importance in our lives. NTEREST is revived or increased in a singing group or organization in proportion as new, stimulating songs are learned, and correlated materials are presented. Suggested lists of new or unfamiliar hymns and anthems, together with essential books for reference and guidance, are submitted. From these lists the music directors and the accompanists may select the needed music and books for use during the current month and also as bases for the preparation and presentation of the lessons to be given throughout 1951-52. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 It is important that those in charge of the musical activities in the Relief Society shall have a definite goal in mind and this should be to help our organization consummate its spiritual, educational, and cultural program. This necessitates an acquaintance with the Bible and other Church books, authentic books pertaining to education, great literature, and standard books appertaining to music, the other arts and culture. New or Unfamiliar Hymns L. D. S. Hymns (Green book): pp 3 (transpose to B flat); 13, 27 (transpose to C); 91, 115, 227, 273, 349. Deseret Sunday School Songs: pp. 10 (transpose to A flat); 94, 135, 210 (transpose to A flat or G); 223 (transpose to D flat) 241, 249, 287. Hymns (New L. D. S. Hymn Book) pp. 5 (Christmas); 22, 32, 35, 38, 53, 59, 63, 72, 113, 335; 361. There are various ways of transposing music. Perhaps the easiest way is through a combination of letter and interval (association of two tones). For example: if the original melody is in the key of G Major and reads g-a-b-d and you wish it ANTHEMS, (Three-part, S. S. A.) Come Gracious Spirit (Chorals) The Birthday of a King (Christmas) Build Thee More Stately Mansions Sheep and Lambs May Safely Graze Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes The Twenty-Third Psalm +.- How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings ANTHEMS (Two-part, S. A., not difficult) The Good Shepherd 2 2..2-.----:--s-0+-++ God Bless Our Land: ae I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked The Lord Is My Shepherd a bese Grateful, O Lord, Am I o0 --. Es-seoe--o-0eAt the Cradle (Christmas) - the hymn. Transposed-a whole step (major second) lower, change the key signature from G Major (one sharp) to F Major (one flat). The melody g-a-b-d will now read f-g-a-c. When possible sing the hymns in two parts (soprano and alto); or, in three parts, if so arranged. Be sure that the tempo (speed of rhythm) is not: too fast for the singing group. Transpose hymns that are too high to a more suitable key. The accompanist should make a copy of the hymns in the new key and have it ready for use when needed. Before practicing a hymn, and, if the necessary information is available, tell briefly something about the author and the. Composer. Also draw attention to the message and philosophy present in the text, Emphasize important words and sentences. Have a good reader from the group. 'read the words before practicing Have the accompanist play it through. Note the style and character of the music. Sing the first stanza. Single out and practice difficult phrases. Sing the complete hymn. Observe all punctuation and expression marks. Make the practice period an enjoyable experience. COMPOSER PUBLISHER —_ Bach-McCurdy — Boosey & Hawkes aNeidlinger G. Schirmer —. Andrews G. Schirmer =Bach-Trehayne ' G. Schirmer eS Beethoven-Wilson Lorenz —Malotte G. Schirmer _— Smart Presser Co. _overatlBarri G. Schirmer wwenallllKountz G. Schirmer -O'Hara G. Schirmer ———Smart G. Schirmer sonalRoma Witmark E. C. Schirmer LESSON DEPARTMENT Use the same procedure for practicing and learning the anthems as suggested for the hymns. Books FAULKNER, What We Music BARTHOLOMEW, The Relation. Of Music to Psychology PYPER, Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns PRATT, The New Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians SEYMOUR, What Music Can Do For You (Philosophy of Music) LINDO, The Art of Accompanying WODELL, Choir and Chorus Conducting STEINER, The Music of the Bible SWISHER, Music in Worship Hear In WEDGE, Ear-training and Sight-singing (Volumes I and II) "CEHRKENS, Music Notation Terminology and These books may be ordered from the following Salt Lake City music dealers: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main. Daynes Music Company, 45-47 South Main. Glen Bros. Music Company, 74 South Main. Summerhays Music Company, 21 East lst South. 4 4 @ 4 She Perishables C. Cameron Johns I am a silver note And the silence conspites against me. I am a fragile wing And the wind is my foe. I am a scented flower And the thick air engulfs me. I am a cold black stone And the hill-sped waters erode me. I am a single breath And the deeps of earth aspire me. 139 3—PartSacred Choruses for Singing e Mothers baerCM6603__—s If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen...20 enoeees- 8943 Hear My Prayer—James 15 aaa3912-05984 How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Smart 16 oncceuill8723 I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara -..-.-- 20 ances8942 I Will Thank Thee, O Lord.12 - ttl962 Invocation—Moore -- "16 oie My Soul Is Athirst for God— Stickles 2 cccccceeeeeeeeeeeee a5. CM650 O Day of Rest and Gladness —Schumann 15 aceon337 O, Shepherd of Israel— Morrison (SSAA) 1 —6221 Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes— Beethoven 16 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. (J On Approval O) Charge (] Money Enclosed Bre.-.. Ece-..--ce-ccee--nneveee-esevesevscessnceccennceneneeesseescennene City & Starter ncn. N. Eecconsscccesssennsnsensnensenesemene FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daunes 45-47 SOUTH XK ¢ MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 Miss Breech's Boy (Continued from page 101) There stood Butch in his warm ted jacket and overalls. At his side was Chippy, who evidently thought amicable relations had been resumed with the woman in the white cottage. Without a word Butch walked into the room, wet galoshes and all. Chippy followed, | his tail frisking merrily. Miss Breech shouted at them: "Butch, you get out of here. And take that pesky dog along. Look at my clean carpet! Don't you know better than to walk in here like that? Get out!" Without a word Butch turned and started for the door. Chippy had left at the first angry tone. Butch slowly walked across the porch and down the steps. Only when he was on the walk did Miss Breech look up from her angry stare at the muddy wet tracks on her living room rug. 'Then she saw what she had been too angry to notice before. Under Butch's coat and protruding in the rear of his stocky little body was a little artificial Christmas tree. "Oh," she gasped. Have I done?" — Grabbing her big woolen shawl, she hastily set out for her neighbor's house. When she knocked on the door, Butch's mother opened it. Butch was standing by the door to the kitchen, big tears streaming down his face. Chippy was gently licking Butch's one free hand that "Oh, what hung by his side, while the other - still was helping to hold up the little tree under his coat. "Come in, Miss Breech," Butch's C mother said. "I hope Butch did not annoy you. When he found out you did not have a tree, nothing would do him but he must take ~over his own little tree that Aunt Mary sent him. We have the other big tree, and he thought you wouldn't have a real Christmas, if you didn't have a tree." Miss Breech cried, "Oh, Butch," and ran to him. She gathered him in her arms, dog, tree, and all. "Oh, Butch, you bring that tree right over to my house and we'll put it up right now." | Butch's tears disappeared like magic. A smile that exposed every absent tooth in his head was on his face as Miss Breech clasped his sweaty little hand in hers and led him out the door. "We'll be back after while," she said to Butch's mother. "Come on, Chippy,' she called, "you're coming, too." Such goings-on as there were in _Miss Breech's house that night! Popcorn was popped and paper decorations were pasted. When the last little trinket was in place and the lovely silver star was atop the tree, Miss Breech sat down in her big chair with Butch on her lap and read, as she had on so many days at school, "'I'was the Night before Christmas," as a tired little boy rested his head against her C shoulder, and an equally tired little dog looked up at them in perplexed acceptance of his new role. After Butch and Chippy had taken a somewhat belated departure, Miss Breech straightened up her living room once more. She didn't feel lonely at all; in fact, she MISS BREECH'S BOY was humming "Up On the Houseop, Click, Click, Click," as she straightened the runner on the table under the little tree. It was then she discovered what she had been too busy to note before. Under the tree lay a little parcel; clumsily tied in colored paper and tinseled nbbon. She did not open it. Instead she did what she had always done with her children's gifts. She carefully placed the package on the tree, to be opened in the morning. "Bless his little heart," she murmured softly to herself. "Bless his little heart!" A Key to the Occurrences of History (Continued from page 90) man; to cause the world to beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks, make the nations of the earth dwell in peace, and to bring about the millennial glory, when the earth shall yield its increase, resume its paradisean glory, and become as the garden of the Lord. Then he tells us in simple and understandable terms how to achieve this glorious objective. As a church and a people it behooves us to be wise, and to seek to know the will of God, and then be willing to do it. If Enoch, Abraham, Moses and the children of Israel, and all God'speople were saved by keeping the commandments of God, we, if saved at all, shall be saved upon the same principle. Finally a statement from the Prophet that I wish could be framed and kept before us as a motto every day of our lives: "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be 141 PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. TheDeseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah BEESLEY MUSIC COMPANY Utah's Pioneer Music House presents Relief Society Special Program Music for Sunday Evening, March 4, 1951 THEME: If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments, S. S. A., by Florence J. Madsen 20c Suggested song for carrying out the theme: If With All Your Hearts, S. S. A., by Mendelssohn-Harris Order now on the convenient order blank below: rer rrr itt reer trite rete itr t rrr i errr rrr ry BEESLEY MUSIC CO. 70 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send following to: I adnan savscnceornnsonesensosnsensasnnassevsnnisrcoseonseerosees Address _. Enclosed find f@uilttence ee ae Pa Please charge to Adres ---. Cceccceeceeceeeeecececsceecceceeecccceesesecaccecsecencee: Copies: ee If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments, at 20c per copy i f With All Your Hearts, at 15¢ per; copy: (No Postage Necessary) PET Torte Tree er rt rT ret rrr TTT tT ert Titi irtr Tr ry ory BEESLEY MUSIC Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1951 — ————— Tf Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments" BY FLORENCE J. MADSEN and all Music suggested for Relief Society Singing Mothers and for Special Programs. MUSIC-N-RECORDS SELDON N. HEAPS, Lessee with Summerhays Music Co., Inc. 21 East First South SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (The Progress of Man, page 448). That is the magic key to the occurrences of history that can help you throughout your three year study of these fine chapters by Brother Joseph Fielding Smith. _ President George Albert Smith has often taught us how to use this key. He has what he calls a "formula for happiness." "Happiness is what we are all seeking, and it is what our Father in heaven desires for us. "I think the finest recipe that I could give to obtain happiness would be: Keep the commandments of the Lord. That is easy to: remember, and if we will do that, we may be sure of success. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the only code of conduct whereby prosperity, peace and happiness may be preserved" (The Improvement Era, January 1950, Pp. 13, 43).. God bless you all, that you may obtain that abiding happiness. For the Strength of the Hills (Continued from page 96) I have a dance with visiting royalty?" "If you happen to mean me— yes," she answered, hoping that she looked much calmer than she felt. She slipped into his arms, trying to decide whether it was his manner that made her temperature appear to rise, or if it was all within herself. Were her pulses really throbbing, or did she only imagine it? No country boy, she decided haughtily, was going to make her act like a stammering schoolgirl. No, indeed. To her chagrin, she was practically a silent schoolgirl, while he quipped and wise-cracked, and left her at the end of an all-toobrief dance with an absurd feeling of standing about in a vacuum. (To be continued) "In the Twinkling of a Toe" (Continued from page 112) MADPCE nodded. "I guess it does need fixing up. I guess I haven't cared enough about keeping it up-to-date." "Oh, Grandmother! Would I like to! And would I love having the girls come then, sometimes! Can we really?" "IN THE TWINKLING OF A TOE" So that's it. Guessed! "I don't know why not. We'll get that window fixed right away, before winter sets in. The rest—the inside things—we could do as we get time. Could by yourself, if that's." "Doing it together would be more fun. Grandmother, you know, last night when you danced, you were so cute and I was so proud of you! I had a sort of funny thought. Here I've lived with you more than half my life and never knew you!" | "Grandmother, you're just—wonderful! 'In the twinkling of a toe!'" Again the exuberant laughter trilled. "How come we haven't understood each other before?" "T don't know, dear. Maybe we had to grow up to each other. We might make a project of getting acquainted." Colleen giggled. "We'll take that one on, Grandmother. I'll be seeing you. I almost can't wait to get home, today aya The outside door sounded an exclamation point after the final words. Madge looked around comfortably, feeling warmed and companioned. "I'll be seeing you," Colleen had said, not, "I'm taking off." Was the difference symbolic of something joyful coming into her life through this granddaughter she had understood so little? Clearing the table, Madge heard herself humming a tune. Words slipped into place:"... Do you see my new shoes... With the tips on the toes...?" Recklessly she executed the steps down the narrow space between the table and the cabinets. And then she stood still, and threw back her head, and listened to laughter of her own. I should have | I mean, you > tle ail, lin i iin il i il i i i i i i li i i i i i i i i i le This Beautiful Art is Easy and Fascinating "LEARN NETTING" awe F Mes ee aad =otp 47 FZ Siok "E. /% oo a " at THE NELSON BOOK OF NETTING shows fifteen beautiful designs — Doilies — Handkerchiefs — Baby Bonnets — and other lovely items. Kit comprises five plastic mesh sticks and steel needle, with pictured self instruction book $ 3 50 and 10c for postage and State tax. If not in your department store write The ARTCRAFT PRESS Manufacturers 217 Beason Bldg. — Salt Lake City, Utah A Useful and Inexpensive Gift "IF YOU LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS" BY FLORENCE J. MADSEN And all other Relief Society Music, including TWO-PART and THREE-PART ANTHEMS GENERAL REFERENCE BOOKS for CHORISTERS Write us at once and we will fill your orders promptly GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Toh Near and Sar Mabel Harmer, author of the new serial "For the Strength of the Hills," tells us something about herself in the following note: "I was born in Logan, the eldest in a family of seven girls—all of whom have been more or less interested in writing. After being graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College with an English major, I taught school for several years. Since my marriage to Earl W. Harmer, we have made our home in Salt Lake City. I began writing about midway in the production of my family and have kept an even balance, having five children and five books. There are also three lovely grandchildren. The books are Brigham Young at Home (written in collaboration with Clarissa Young Spencer); The Story of the Mormon Pioneers; Denmis and the Mormon Battalion; Famous Mascots and Kgs; and Storytime. My activities seem to have followed the same number, for I have also served on five stake boards. I believe that I have held every position in the women's Church organization from organist to president, with the exception of secretary. Most recently, and I believe the most enjoyable, was as literature leader last year in the Thirty-First Ward Relief Society. Our family has since moved into the Garden Park Ward. I have been chairman of the Barnacles writing group, president of the Salt Lake Chapter, League of Utah Writers, and am currently State president of the League. My hobbies are music, needlepoint, and gardening—the latter much more in theory than in practice." I am sending a number of new subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine. The first name on the list, is a man, Brother Reginald D. Shaffer, a new convert to the Church. He is a very faithful member. —Ruby H. Lundberg, Malad, Idaho Please renew my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. It is all I have of Relief Society since moving out here, and as there are no visiting teachers, I still get the messages from the Magazine. —Mrs. Luetta Gilchrist, Mackay, Idaho Page 144 - I am sending a number of new subsciptions. 'The Magazine always gives me a thought for each day. —lletta D. Reid, Panguitch, Utah It is a pleasure to again this year receive The Relief Society Magazine as a gift from my mother. I wish to express my appreciation to all of you for the continued variety of inspiring messages it brings each month. Kindly note address change, as I am anxious to receive the Magazine after my arrival in the Near East. Miss Maud Pearson, Baltimore, Maryland New address: Beirut, Lebanon In 1948 the April issue of the Maga. Zine published a special short story by Dorothy Clapp Robinson entitled "The Gift" (page 224), which is one of the many short stories I have enjoyed reading. But there is not a gift more tenderly received by me than The Relief Society Magazine. With every number there is a new, original design on the cover shining with beauty. One special feature article, "And This Is Life Eternal,' written by Elder Harold B. Lee (April 1949, page 222) should be a lasting memory to everyone who reads it. The features and the poetry are all timely contributions to literature, and are indeed a rich inheritance gained from our pioneer parents, as of my own mother, Eliza Stephensen Winn, who gave immeasurably to the cause of Relief Society. She was a guiding light to a large family where she resided seventy years ago in Richfield, Utah. —Mrs. John Gee, Rexburg, Idaho We want to tell you how much the Relief Society sisters in our ward enjoy the Magazine. It contains so many things of interest to our Latter-day Saint women. Our advice to the class leaders is: Be sure to use the material given in the Magazines, together with the listed references. Also, the stories, articles, and poetry are very fine. Of course, I especially enjoy the poetry. We are happy that we have reached a 100. Per cent quota for our ward. —Iva Lou Nebeker, Perry, Utah Your 'College grade" courses in education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $11.00; Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING" by Constance Talbot $2.98 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL.! By Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN," by Joseph Fielding Smith (Temporarily out of print) — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers The Ideal Gift for All Special Occasions Brrthdays ~— Weddings -_ _Abtliversanes For Brides and Missionaries + + e Koliof Society Magazine Subscribe before March 1, and receive the special APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE Gift card sent recipient if request is enclosed with subscription + + $1.50 (loreign $2) THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE >" Beth tin ire fot Ie Cr U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 
