THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 NOVEMBER 1951 No. 11

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

"If You Live Up to Your Privileges" by President Belle S. Spafford 723
The Constitution and the United Nations Charter: IV. Some Effects of World Government Upon Constitutional Liberty (Concluded) by Albert E. Bowen 727
A Faith-Promoting Memory by Esther L. Warburton 763

FICTION

Such Stuff by Leone E. McCune 730
Hour of Decision by Alice Morrey Bailey 738
Through This Door — Chapter 4 by Margery S. Stewart 753

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 742
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 743
Editorial: The Beginning of Harvest by Vesta P. Crawford 744
Notes to the Field: Watch This Date: It Is Important 746
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 764
From Near and Far 792

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Just One Step at a Time by Caroline Eyring Miner 746
Preparing Your Child for School and for Life by Celia Luce 747
Puddings for Thanksgiving 751
Minnie Campion Has Music for a Hobby 756
Add Sparkle and Zest to Your Menus by Winifred Wilkinson 757
The Neglected Art of Photo-Coloring by Clara Laster 760
Grow Old Splendidly by Evelyn Wooster Viner 787

LESSON DEPARTMENT FOR FEBRUARY

Work Meeting: Mending Woolens by Jean Ridges Jennings 774
Literature: William Blake by Briant S. Jacobs 776
Social Science: The Struggle for Independence by Archibald F. Bennett 781
Music: Music Appreciation Programs for Relief Society and the Home by Florence Jepperson Madsen 784

POETRY

"Finds the Canyon," by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 762
"November Wind," by Zera Wilde Earl, 764
"The Lost Words," by Dorothy J. Roberts
by Beatrice K. Ekman, 787

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 11. NOVEMBER 1951 Shanksgiving (Day Susan T'. Jennings Let the archives speak, through time's spell, in creed Of Thanksgiving Day. Let them speak in root And fiber of a people's strength of deed— Colossal in courage, in the breaking Of Old World chains of tyranny, by might Of man's free agency. Let them speak Kneeling in fervored faith, seeking the light Of heaven's appointings to a New World— A chosen land of prophecy and dream, Where rights and liberty reign supreme! Let the archives resound with the Pilgrim Anchored on the shores of America! Bleak shores—unbidden in loneliness, grim As the rocks' barrenness! Let them speak Hoping, longing through the seasons changing; Through anguished toil, and through an hungered plea! With earth's yielding to divine answering Hallelujahs! In that first harvest feast! May we, in spirit, kneel with these, and pray, With them, give thanks, on this Thanksgiving Day! The Cover: Lake Morraine in the Valley of Ten Peaks, Banff National Park, Canada Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen i bi A Perry Picture From a Painting by Boughton PURITANS GOING TO CHURCH "Tf You Live Up to Your Privileges'' President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the general session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference held in the Tabernacle, October 4, 1951.) FOREMOST among the _ treasured possessions of Relief Society are the words of instruction, inspiration, and blessing given by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters when they were privileged to have him with them in their meetings in Nauvoo. These words have been sought out from the records by the sisters of each succeeding era for over a century and have served them as a guide and a comfort. Today I should like to refer to some of the words of the Prophet given at the sixth meeting of the society held on 'Thursday afternoon, April 28, 1842, a meeting wherein, according to the records: "The spirit of the Lord was poured out in a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by those present on this interesting occasion" (D. H. C., IV, page 607). The Prophet told the sisters "that he did not know that he should have many opportunities of teaching them, as they were going to be left to themselves; they would not long have him to instruct them; that the Church would not have his instructions long, and the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings [in person]." Among other things, "He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands." He admonished the sisters to "listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church;" and exhorted them "always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed 'for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people." He pointed out to the sisters "the way for them to conduct themselves, that they might act according to the will of God," setting forth their duty to put down iniquity and resist evil. He spoke of charity, referring to this society as a "charitable institution," and urged the sisters to exercise this great virtue, to act according to the sympathies which God had placed in their bosoms. Then he gave this blessed promise: "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Page 723 724 Times without number _ this promise of the Prophet has been quoted by Relief Society women, | bearing testimony of its treasured place in their hearts. Yet, in quoting, I sometimes wonder if we are as cognizant of the terms set forth by the Prophet on which the blessings are predicated as we are of the blessings. "If you live up to your privileges!" This is the rule laid down, the law which must be fulfilled if the promises are to be realized—a law as binding on us today as on the little group of sisters who heard the - words spoken by their beloved Prophet. FE are a_ highly privileged womanhood. No other women in all the world are so favored. We have the gospel in its fullness. We have a divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed society _ through which a knowledge of the gospel may be gained and testimony developed, and through which our talents and womanly virtues may find righteous expression. Privileged, indeed, are we that _In this dispensation the Lord has once again spoken. Through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord has revealed mighty truths withdrawn for ages from mankind. Divine authority, God's holy Priesthood, has been restored; his Church established, the plan of life and salvation made clear. Great and wonderful are the things God has made known. The gospel opens up vast vistas of light and understanding, bringing into bold relief those things which are of eternal value, of first importance, and relegating RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 to their rightful place those of small or temporary moment. Having these truths, we live intelligently, facing our trials with courage, secure in the knowledge that if we act according to the will of God all is well with us. To have access to a knowledge of this precious gospel, and to fail to avail ourselves of it, and to conform our lives to it, is to fail to live up to our privileges. At yesterday's meeting Sister Layton referred to a statement by President John Taylor wherein he said: "It is our privilege to have knowledge of all doctrines and principles that are taught, and if we do not have this knowledge we are living below our privileges." Another great privilege, which, in his kindness, the Father has specially granted to women is that of bearing and rearing children, of mothering the spirits he has created and allowed to come to earth. 'Today I should like to say a word with regard to this. To the mother, in large measure, has come the responsibility of guiding her children into happy, useful lives, and of preparing them to be worthy of going back into the inner family circle of our heavenly home when earth life is done. The gospel teaches us that the family unit is an eternal one; that children are of intrinsic worth, inherently valuable, a priceless possession. Every child has a right to all the love, the guidance, the motherly watchcare, the security that can be given him in achieving his fullest development here upon the earth. The laws of life and the revealed word of God com- "IF YOU LIVE UP TO YOUR PRIVILEGES" bine in telling us there is no more important work for womankind than to rear children in nghteousness. President David O. McKay, addressing the sisters in general Relief Society conference in October 1939, declared: "Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood." T' is a matter of deep concern that many women are lacking in a quick and acute sensitiveness to their privileges of motherhood. Reports from the Mid-Century White House Conference, 1950, state that "two and a half million children under eighteen years of age live in broken homes; fifty-eight per cent of the divorces were granted to childless couples." The love for little children is an age-old concept, the very fabric of our culture, yet its deep meaning and the acceptance of its attendant responsibilities appear to be losing ground. The broadening of vocational opportunities for women, the increased living standards and high living costs, requiring greater income than one member of a family can provide, the increased opportunities to transfer child-care functions to child-care centers, strong community appeals, the desires for independence, yes, and in some instances, a sense of discontent and fear of missing something in the seclusion and the unrecognized activities of household routine, these, and other factors, are enticing and leading mothers and __ potential mothers to seek employment out- 725 side their homes at too great a cost to their children, at the too costly sacrifice of a full realization of the joys and blessed privileges of motherhood. During the period of August 20 to September 15 our employment office reported thirty-six employed mothers requesting help to care for their children during their absence at work. 'There were seventy-eight children involved, fourteen under nine months old; more than this number were between one and two years. 'These mothers all had gainfully employed husbands. One mother, in seeking help, - said: "There really isn't much work, just take care of the three children, feed them, straighten the house a little, and do a little washing and ironing." The average wage these working mothers are willing to pay for help ranges from twelve to fifteen dollars per week for this exacting and responsible work of child-care. I ask you to consider whether such care, however good it may be, is in any measure an acceptable substitute for conscientious mother care. The heavens have smiled upon women in granting them the sacred privilege of motherhood. In motherhood woman obtains her deepest satisfaction and attains her highest glory. 'To fail to meet its obligations is to fail to live up to one of her greatest privileges. ODAY the world is in need of mellowing. None would question the need for life to be made sweeter, the world a more loving place in which to live. All about us we see evidence of a sick and darkened society in need of healing, 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 spiritual influences. 'This, too, is woman's privilege—a privilege of which we must always be aware. Women have been called the architects of spirituality. When this quality is no longer found in womankind, sorry indeed will be the state of the world. Through deeds of love and kindly service, which find effective direction in our God-inspired society, through circumspect __ behavior, through zefinement of manner and speech, through modesty of dress, through acting according to the: will of God, women may develop: nobility of soul and beauty of character, which will cause them to radiate spiritual strengths that will shine forth like the stars in the darkness of night. In the light of this influence, the mean, the low, the vulgar, will fade away. Choice and wonderful are the privileges granted by the Father to his daughters here upon the earth. Great and important is the mission of women. If we live up to our privileges, the promises made by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the sisters on that spring day more than a century ago will be fulfilled in our lives as surely as will be any of the words spoken by the prophets of God—great and glorious will be our reward in the celestial kingdom; the angels cannot be restrained from being our associates. 'These are rewards well worth the winning. That the Lord may help us to see the beauties of life, the greatness of our blessings, even in a darkened world of trial, and help us live up to the opportunities and privileges granted us by a kind and all-wise Father, I sincerely pray. She Candle Flour Mary Gustafson This is the in-between, the candle hour In homes that hold a haven from the world The time when sparrow songs no longer shower, — But shelter through the dusk. Small lambs lie curled Within the sheephouse walls. The day is hushed By curtaining of light, and silence drifts Beyond the ancient hill. The sun was rushed To urgent needs, and now the tired heart lifts To see a glowing square that shows the one He loves is waiting for his hand to reach And open wide the unbarred door. All done, The tasks that face the day that comes to each... At candle hour the toil of earth must fade For quiet jewels of peace are night-inlaid. The Constitution and the United Nations Charter IV. Some Possible Effects of World Government Upon Constitutional | Liberty (Concluded) Elder Albert R. Bowen \\ /lTH an understanding of the treaty powers of the Constitution firmly fixed in our minds, let us now consider the possibility of our constitutional rights being affected by the United Nations Charter and covenants or conventions entered into supplementary thereto. First of all, it is to be emphasized that the matters that are now to be discussed are not in the realm of theory or speculation. These proposals have been seriously advanced and are presently before the United States Senate for consideration. One of the objectives of the United Nations is the setting up and establishment of a world court or tribunal. The function of this judicial body is to try questions and disputes arising not only between nations but questions between states and individuals, and the infiction of criminal punishment for violation of the laws adopted by the United Nations. The decisions of this court are to be final, and it is expected that this tribunal shall have the power to pass upon the decisions of the courts of any member states. Therefore, in any field, in which this court shall have jurisdiction, it is expected that it may overrule the decisions of our courts, even the Supreme Court of the United States. Are we ready to confer upon a foreign court, made up of judges who do not understand and appreciate the value of constitutional liberties, the power to try our citizens in proceedings in which full constitutional guarantees shall not be applied to the individuals accused? Or shall we confer power upon this foreign tribunal to overrule the decisions of our courts? These questions are deserving of the most serious and careful consideration. The United Nations Charter has a unique approach to questions of international law. Formerly, international agreements have been de- _ Signed to operate only upon states and not upon individuals. In the case of the charter, all of this has been changed. It is perfectly clear that the charter will have a direct bearing upon the lives of individuals. There have actually been adopted by the United Nations Assembly and placed before the United States Senate, with recommendations for ratification, covenants, which, | if adopted in their present form, will inevitably lead to the destruction of certain of our very basic, fundamental constitutional rights and privileges, not only of the states but Page 727 728 also of individual citizens. The issues involved in these proposals are as fundamental and important as any issues that have ever been considered in America. It behooves us all, therefore, to make a careful study of these issues and to make intelligent decisions with regard thereto. In the wise solution of these questions America is in as great need of divine assistance as in the days of the great constitutional debates one hundred and seventyfive years ago. WO of these supplemental covenants or conventions now before the United States Senate for ratification are known as the Genocide Convention and the International Covenant on Human Rights. Genocide is defined as the crime of exterminating by killing, famine, _ slave labor, or otherwise, large racial or other groups within a nation, and the Convention on Genocide specifically provides for the punishment of individuals as well as states for the commission of this crime. No one will attempt to deny that such a crime as mass killing should be punishable, but the manner in which punishment is to be carried out under this proposed convention is a matter of deep concern to every citizen of this country. The convention provides that the accused is to be tried in a court in the territory in which the crime was committed, or before an international tribunal whose jurisdiction has been accepted by the member state. Thus the door is to be opened for the criminal trial and prosecution of citizens of this country in foreign courts, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 195] is directly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. Under such an arrangement, what shall happen to the constitutional guarantees of trial by jury, a speedy and public trial, the right of the accused to be tried at the place where the crime was committed, etc.? 'These and other rights cannot be taken away from our citizens by Congress or by the Executive, and yet by treaty we are to be led into the position where all of these rights may be denied to our citizens. The abovementioned rights are not granted by the United States. They belong to the people and cannot be given away by our Government. Furthermore, the Genocide Convention makes it a crime, subject to appropriate punishment, to incite genocide. Inherent in this provision is the seed of an attack on the constitutional guaranty of freedom of speech and press. Who is to determine what constitutes incitement to genocide? Able constitutional lawyers have pointed out that under the very broad, general, indefinite, and loose language of these provisions of the Genocide Convention, it would be entirely possible to construe a political speech as an incitement to genocide, and thus submit the speaker to criminal trial and punishment. Are we to: have foreign censors whose duty it shall be to judge whether a political speech may constitute such incitement? It has been appropriately observed that if the protection of human rights in the world is to mean anything, certainly it is essential that freedom of speech and freedom of the press should be fully THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER preserved, and no treaty should even be considered by the United States which does not give full protection to these basic and fundamental rights. The limitation of space will not permit more scope to this discussion of the Genocide Convention, but the convention in its present form should never be ratified as a treaty by the United States Senate. HE so-called Covenant on Human Rights is deserving of comment. It, like the Genocide Convention, seeks to provide sanctions against individuals as well as states who violate its provisions. It creates a whole new concept of human rights and provides for punishment against those who violate them. Like the provisions of the genocide code, violations are to be punished in a tribunal recognized and set up under the authority of the United Nations. 'The same _ objections to trial of American citizens by courts in foreign jurisdictions without constitutional protection C apply to this proposed covenant. It must not be forgotten that in the determination of all questions under the United Nations Charter, ours is not to be the only voice of decision and of the question of what shall be punishable and by whom. Some fifty other nations with voting power just as authoritative as ours will likewise be heard, and the majority is intended to control the result. No more appropriate observation characterizing the attempt to set 'American Bar Association. 729 up, by the treaty technique, a new body of international law applicable to individuals, may be found than is found in the report of the Special Committee on Peace and War through the United Nations of the That special committee makes the following observations on these attempts at world legislation to be applied without discrimination on a world-wide basis: People who do not know the meaning of freedoms are to be metamorphosed into judges of the freedoms of others. A common pattern is to be set for billions of people of different languages, religions, standards of living, culture, education, and mental and physical capacity. A few people, with beliefs utterly foreign to each other, meet, debate, and by majority vote seek to determine how the people of the world shall live on a common pattern. To bring some people to a higher standard, those far above those standards, under the guise of precarious sacrifice to the common good, are to accept the mediocrity of the average. Are the people of the United States ready for such sweeping changes? Let us, as Americans, be ever vigilant in the protection of our American heritage. Let us make sure that every proposal advanced or advocated for our adoption as a part of the necessary machinery to advance the purposes of the United Nations is subjected to a merciless scrutiny. Let us make certain that every such proposal or idea is rejected which will impair the rights guaranteed to us by the Constitution, or which would, in the slightest degree, impair it as the shield of our liberties. Star Dust Leone E;.. McCune AY didn't stop for the elevaK tor, but ran up the stairs to her aunt's second-floor apartment. She let herself in and leaned against the door, her heart pounding with excitement. Standing so for a moment, she closed her eyes tightly, thinking, in another few hours my whole life will be changed, and I have no time to stand here dawdling. But she still stood, feeling Barry's arms around her, his kisses on her lips. We're mad, she thought, utterly, utterly mad. She looked at the clock, then rushed into the bedroom and took her bag from the closet. Aunt Elizabeth wouldn't be home until after she'd gone. She couldn't bear having to explain now. A note would say all that was necessary. Later, she could talk with her, but not today. Elizabeth would be upset, angry with her perhaps, and she was sorry about that. As for her folks, she couldn't bear to think how they pe feel. Had always thought she sett be married in the temple at home, as her father and mother had been. But here she was in this fascinating, glamorous city, and Barry was so wonderful. Why shouldn't they have their honeymoon here and now, instead of waiting weeks or months for Barry to come back home? Anyhow, it was all decided. Later they could go through the temple. Page 730 When Kay had arrived in San Francisco a week ago, Barry had met her at the train and taken her to Aunt Elizabeth's, where she was to spend the week. Mom and Dad hadn't really wanted her to come at all. And they didn't know that it was Barry's constant urging the past two weeks before spring vacation, and not Elizabeth's invitation, that had made her so eager to make the visit. She wished her folks liked Barry. It was not so much what they said as their avoidance of any discussion of him, that made her sense their dislike. She could never understand it. Mom always seemed extra cheerful when any of the other boys called her on the phone, and sort of subdued when the call was from Barry. If only they could know him as she did, they would like him, she knew. Elizabeth had written of her loneliness for her sister and her family, but Mom couldn't visit her right now. And her folks had finally given their consent for Kay to go. She felt they were not too happy about it, though they tried to be, knowing that she would be seeing Barry. It had been so long. She wanted to be with him again, terribly. They had gone out together a great deal the last few weeks of their freshman year in college. Then, in the summer, he had taken a job with a firm which later sent him to San Francisco. STAR DUST At college he had been on the football team. Gay, attractive, a little irresponsible then, but he'd had a good job now for several months. He was twenty, a year older than Kay. FE, had met her train that pale, sunlit morning. And when she saw him coming toward her with his easy, swinging stride, hat in hand, curly blond hair ruffled by the breeze, her heart had leaped. Scanning the crowd, he found her at last and hurried his step. He pulled her toward him and kissed her. "Barry, not here. He drew her along with his arm across her shoulders, smiling down at her. "Why not?". She laughed happily and glanced about. "Too many people." "They wouldn't pay any attention to us. I'd just as soon they all knew you're my girl. I knew it the minute I saw you. Sirius—and after all this time." "What do you mean—Sirius?" He drew her to one side, still smiling down at her. "Better wait here while I tell the redcap where to take the bags, and we'll get out of this jam." He was back in a few minutes and they walked on toward his parked car. He paid the porter and helped Kay into her seat, then slid behind the wheel. But he didn't turn on the ignition. "Let me look at you," he grinned, turning toward Kay. He removed her brown velvet toque. His fingers lifted some locks of her red-brown hair. 9 731? "Same gorgeous hair,' and, nodding, "same beautiful brown eyes, with red flecks in them. Who ever heard of eyes like that? And freckles... Even her freckles are cute on that golden skin." He leaned back and his eyes contracted to narrow slits. "Unusual, different, that's my girl." He moved toward her and slid his arm across her shoulders. "Are you glad to see me?" She gave a throaty little laugh. "You know I am." He bent his head and they kissed warmly, fervently. Then Barry started the car, and as they drove along, he pointed out the places of interest, as it was Kay's first visit to the Coast. "You'll love it here, Kay. You'll really come alive. You only exist in that stodgy little college town. I wouldn't go back there if they paid me twice what they do here." He wanted to know how the football team was getting along without him. And how were all the cute co-eds? Of course, he had the only one worth considering right here beside him. He wanted a date that first evening. And when Kay had protested about leaving her aunt that very frst night, Barry had suggested they take her to dinner with them. "We can't afford to lose time. There're a million places I want to show you." Elizabeth had remained home from work that first day in order to visit with Kay and she had accepted Barry's invitation for the evening. Later, at home, she had questioned Kay about him. What did he do? How long had he been in 732 San Francisco? How well had she known him back home? Soft brown eyes had regarded Kay kindly. "You are in my care while you're here, and I'll be anxious about you." Kay had reassured her. She mustn't be concerned. She expected to be seeing Barry often while she was here. But surely her aunt could see what a wonderful person Barry really was., THE days passed like a beautiful dream. She lunched with Barry since Elizabeth's office was too far away for her to meet her aunt. She met Barry at odd hours when he was free from work, then returned to the apartment in time to start dinner for Elizabeth. Barry had taken Kay to the Towers where they could look across the | city and the bay. 'They had gone to Chinatown and Golden Gate Park and the beautiful shops. Barry had _ spent so much time with her that one afternoon while she shopped for gifts for the family, she had chided him, her voice edged with concern, "But, Barry, I'm afraid you'll get your walking papers from Mr. Varney." "Oh, I must have forgotten to tell — you," he said easily, "I haven't been with them for neatly two months, now. I'm with Harper and Brothers. Really a swell set-up." And he went on to explain about his new job. His light blue eyes held hers in a long adoring look. "Right now the job doesn't even seem important. But don't worry, I'll get by." He grinned and gave her a sly wink. "T told my boss I was ill." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 He drew her more closely to his side. "I would be if I stayed at that office away from you." "Oh, Barry," Kay laughed a little helplessly. And then more soberly, "But you shouldn't have lied to him. After all, we've had a lot of time together." "Tve got to leave you now. I'll see you tonight at eight." "Barry, I told you, my aunt won't like it. She thinks I'm seeing altogether too much of you. Besides, if we go dancing tomorrow night, I should stay with her tonight." "Honey, look, you don't know San Francisco unless you've had a Crab Louis at Fisherman's Wharf. And I'd be at loose ends. I'd probably die of loneliness through the evening. Please, gorgeous?" Kay still smiled unrelentingly. "TIL call you tonight at seven. Pll come in to convince your aunt if I have to," he promised. Back home in the apartment Kay insisted that her aunt relax on the couch while she started the dinner. It was true they would visit while Elizabeth ate her dinner, but Kay would be running off leaving her again, and she really felt guilty about it. She couldn't bring herself to tell her aunt she was going out for dinner. Her eyes kept going to the clock, although it would be some time before Barry called. But she would have to tell Elizabeth, because it wasn't necessary to cook so much food. "In a little while her aunt came into the kitchen, and Kay told her. Elizabeth sat down on one of the kitchen chairs and ran slim fingers through her short gray hair. STAR DUST "Kay, it's been wonderful having you to come home to each night this week, honey." She hesitated, as though not knowing how to go on. "But—but I can't help being concerned about you seeing Barry so much." "Why, Aunt Elizabeth, don't you like him?" Kay asked in a small voice. Again Elizabeth hesitated. She straightened in her chair and _regarded Kay with direct, honest brown eyes. "I'm afraid you won't like what I'm going to say, dear, but nevertheless, I'm going to say it. He's quite charming, but just a little too smooth. He'd be more charming if he weren't quite so conceited. Barry loves no one but himself." She paused and shook her head a little regretfully. "He's quite a bright boy, but not as steady as he might be, I'm afraid." And then, as if the thought had just occurred to her, "I hope you're not in love with him. You are much his superior, you know." "Why, Aunt Elizabeth, you just don't know Barry, that's all. He's a marvelous person," Kay said in a hurt, small voice. "But I won't go tonight, if you think I shouldn't. We're going dancing tomorrow night, and the next day I'll be going home. I didn't think, myself, that [ should go, but Barry coaxed and coaxed. He's going to call me at seven." "Honey, you know I want you to enjoy yourself, and I wouldn't spoil things for you, for anything. It would be fun to go to the Wharf. You go, dear, but don't stay out late tonight, please." 733 As Kay freshened up after Barry's call she thought—so Elizabeth doesn't like Barry. But why, why? He wasn't conceited that she could see. He was poised and—well, he had self-assurance. But you needed that in a city like San Francisco. And Barry seemed to be managing very well. Anyhow, it didn't matter what anyone else thought. "I like him. I like him a lot. I'm crazy about him," Kay whispered. "THE next day was Friday, and they were to dine and dance at the St. Francis. They parked the car and walked slowly along the lighted street, dimmed a little by the fog. Kay walked as in a dream. It was beautiful, unreal. Barry smiled down at her without comment. One of San Francisco's flower stalls stood at the corner, and he led her toward the colorful display. Selecting a camellia in a delicate rose color that blended with her costume, he pinned it on her coat. 'They reached the hotel and found their table. The strains of a beautiful waltz floated through the room. Barry held out his arms. He pressed his cheek against her head and sang softly some of the words of the song. Kay could have danced on forever to the enchanting music, in the magic hold of Barry's arms. The orchestra stopped, and they sat down at their table. "I wouldn't need to gather: stars for you,' Barry said, reaching across the table to hold her hand in a warm clasp. "Sirius, my Sirius, most lovely of all the stars. As soon as I saw you coming toward me that first day I knew. I knew I'd hitched my wagon 734 to a star. You can't shake that wagon, Kay. I'll be trailing along wherever you are." "A beautiful line you have, Mr. Westcott. How long did it take you to learn it?" Kay's eyes were shining. "Refuse to take me _ seriously, huh? Let's dance." But the gates of heaven had to be closed sometime, Kay thought a little, wistfully, much later in the evening. She had promised Elizabeth to come home early. Still there was tomorrow left, when she would be seeing Barry again. And then it was after lunch of the last day and he ought to have gone back to work. But he didn't go. Back. He spent the afternoon convincing Kay that she must marry him and remain in San Francisco. A OW she was packing her belongings, making ready to move into Barry's place, after they were married by a justice of the peace. She was glad she had washed out her stockings and lingerie that morning. 'hese used, but nice things, were all the trousseau she would have. She remembered the showers, teas, and wedding receptions of her gitl friends. Marrying Barry now, she'd miss a lot of fun and excitement at home. When she had mentioned it to Barry, he had jokingly remarked that the whole thing was a graft anyway and that he'd buy her anything she needed. But not to have the sweet time of planning, of anticipation and preparation. After all, though, as Barry said, what did any RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 of it matter as long as they could belong to each other and be together always? She loved him so much. Still deep within Kay, however, was a nagging doubt. If he loved me so well, wouldn't he want us to be married at home, in the nght way, with all our folks approving and happy for us? The doubt kept suggesting. And what of Barry's people? Why, she hardly knew them, she realized. And how would they accept her? Would they love her as their own if she married Barry this way? What if they made her feel unwanted? When Kay had explained to him how difficult it was for her to hurt her own parents in such a manner, Barry had held her close and kissed her. "T guess it would at first, honey, but they'd soon forget. And it's our lives we must live, not theirs." It sounded so enticing the way Barry put it. But now, away from his fascinating personality, she could think more clearly. Kay reached for her toilet articles to place in the new case her mother had given her when she was preparing to leave on her trip. How could she tell Mom and Dad? She tried to imagine how they would look, what they would say. But she didn't have to try. She knew. She knew they would be shocked, hurt, and disappointed. Some of her elation cooled now, and her hands moved slowly, ar- 'ranging the jars and bottles. Words that her mother had once said came to her mind. And they were as clear as if she were saying them to her now. STAR DUST One of Kay's friends had+ gone to Las Vegas and married without letting anyone in her family know. And Kay's mother had said, "It might seem very romantic and all that, but marriage is such a serious step. It should have the proper consideration. Above all, it should have dignity. When you marry, dear, I hope you'll wear my wedding dress and be married in the right way." GHE had brought out the dress to show her. Kay could see it now, as her mother removed it from the little trunk in the attic, lifting it carefully from the tissue paper, spreading it out with loving fingers. It was of exquisite ivory brocaded silk with a high neckline, puffed sleeves, and a fitted waist. Too small for Mom now, but just right for Kay. Kay's throat ached, and for just a moment she could see herself in the dress. And Mom's, Dad's, Michael's, and Joe's eyes on her, shining and proud. They couldn't be proud now. And as she folded the last articles for her bag, a phrase repeated itself in her mind. "She ran off and got married. She ran off and got married." There was something ugly about those words. They sounded, somehow, cheap. And she had always hated anything cheap. But that was how people would speak of her. She recalled that ugly rumors had spread concerning Sally, gossip which she knew to be entirely untrue. Something she had read somewhere came into her mind. "You must not only do right, but everything you do must look right." 735 A lot of people left home and married for reasons that were acceptable to them, perhaps. But there was really no good reason why they should marry so hastily. And much against her will, she began to remember little things about Barry. Lhe way he had asked Elizabeth if they wanted wine with their fish and when they had declined he had instructed the waiter to remove the bottle, though he had previously placed it there as if Barry expected it. Barry had smiled at them, covering what otherwise might have been an awkward moment. Now, Kay thought, if you were a Latter-day Saint you would live the Word of Wisdom or you couldn't go through the temple. Barry had said they would go home and be married in the temple later. It was something, though, you could postpone indefinitely. She had seen it happen. One thing she knew, if you didn't live the Word of Wisdom you usually cut yourself off from active participation in the Church. Kay. Decided she didn't feel right about marrying Barry this way. If you knew you were right you could go ahead and feel a sense of pride in doing something, but she felt no pride in what she was about to do. It was all wrong for her. She couldn't do it. They had both rushed into this situation. They had been carried completely off balance by their need and love for each other, but what difference would a few weeks or even months make? Barry would have to understand. 'They would wait, and when she told her folks 736 of her love for Barry, they'd accept him and love him as a member of the family. The worried frown, the tight feeling in her chest were gone now, and her heart sang with happiness. And then Barry was at the door. She let him in and closed it. "All set, darling?" He glanced about the room searching for her bag. AY was standing very still, looking at him, her eyes loving him. _He moved toward her, but she put out her hand to stop him. | "Wait, Barry. Tve been doing a lot of thinking. I I want to go home first. I can't get married this way. And if you really love me, you'll want us to be married the right way. I." Barry grabbed her _ shoulders roughly. His words, hot and sharp as a knife, cut in, "Why you little cheat!. It's going to be now or not at all. You can't do this." Kay staggered back, as from a blow, her face white, her body trembling. 'This couldn't be the Barry she loved so much, only a few moments ago. "Oh, darling, I'm sorry." His voice was apologetic, miserably unhappy. "Please forgive me. But you upset me so. Over again." Now he pleaded tenderly, "I wouldn't hurt you. You know that. I." Then anger flared hotly again. "Why don't you do your own thinking, instead of letting your folks or the Church tell you what you should do?" Kay's voice came clear and firm from lips still drained of their color. "But that's just what I am doing, Barry. At last I'm doing my Let's talk this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 own thinking. Please go now. There's nothing more for either of us to say." | | "But there is, Kay. I love you. Don't you understand? I love you," he pleaded desperately. Kay stood to her full height, her shoulders squared. She shook her head slowly, sadly. "No, Barry, no. We just don't see things the same way. What is so important to me is unimportant to you. If we couldn't feel the same about religion, which is such a large part of our lives, we couldn't possibly feel the same about other things." "But our love is more important than anything, don't you see? I can't get along without you." He waited for what seemed a long time, then turned at last to pick up his hat. His face was pale, and a muscle twitched in his jaw. He went out, closing the door quickly behind him. Somehow Kay walked over to the couch and sat down. She buried her head in her arms and sobs Shook her. After a while she got up and went to bathe her face with cold water.. I musn't be all torn to pieces when Aunt Elizabeth comes home, she thought. All the family was right all along about Barry. How could I have been so wrong about anyone? She questioned herself numbly. She brought her bags and _ all her belongings to place by the door, ready to leave, and a degree of calmness returned to her. "I want to go home," she whispered, "oh, I want so much to go home. Maybe someday I'll meet a man who believes the same way I do about marriage." Don Knight Jog Hour Grace Sayre Dreaming and breathlessly the autumn went! Her smoky haze made vague blue afternoon. Thistle-downs fluffed lightly, quickly spent In drifted silver, like a sailing moon. Poplars, birches, all were ghosts of trees, Their branches still, without a rippled sound; Deserted by the bird-song symphonies, Flamed leaves of maple burned upon the ground. And with the autumn's going, her bright hour Was scattered gold and flame; her beauty went Slowly, sadly, with the drying flower. And with the loss of her, my heart was spent. Page 737 Hour of Decision Alice Morrey Bailey HE moment was electric, its T profound implication etched on the faces of the three people in the room besides Adele. Tom, her husband, registered shock and anger; the bishop was flushed with rebuff, and Jonathan's eyes were bright with excitement, his face torn with conflict. In Adele's heart was a plunging sense of failure and a heavy and sudden sorrow. The bishop had just asked their son to go on a mission, and Jonathan had refused. Bishop James was the first to recover, a kindly tolerance spreading over his features. "I've watched you since you were a little fellow, Jonathan Graham," he said. "You were our most dependable deacon, gathering fast offerings, passing the sacrament, and you have magnified every calling—priest, teacher—that we have given you. My counselors and I think you would be a fine missionary and a good representative of the Church out in the world." "Going on a mission has always been my ambition, Bishop James," Jonathan told him. "But now things are different." "You still have a testimony of the gospel, haven't you?" "Oh, certainly. It isn't that." "And you believe in missionary work?" "Yes, Sir. Of course I do." "Well, then! I realize this is sudden for you, and it is a big decision to make. It can't be done on the spur of the moment. It's Page 738 your decision, not mine or your parents'. Your father has assured me he can afford to keep you there. You think it over and let me know next Sunday." They listened to the bishop's footsteps going down the walk. Adele tried to think of something to say, something to do, but could not. She wanted to implore, and to point out, perhaps to preach,. But the bishop had said this was Jonathan's decision. There was question in the eyes of the other children, as _ they turned from the door—Lana, eighteen, Bill, fifteen, and Susan, thirteen. 'The two younger children were in bed. Lana was silent when no explanation was forthcoming as to why the bishop should want to see her parents and her brother behind the closed doors of the living room, but the others were demanding. "What's the big secret?" Bill asked. "Go to bed, all of you," Tom commanded. Crisply. "Daddy, it's only nine o'clock," Susan began, but all of them retreated before the look in their father's eyes. Jonathan took his jacket and went out the front door. Tom made a move to stop him, but Adele Shook her head in warning. A good walk in the autumn air might do him good. She went heavily up the stairs, 'Tom at her side, and side by side with heavy hearts, they prayed together. HOUR OF DECISION HE evening had begun in gala fashion. It was Jonathan's twenty-first birthday,. And now Adele remembered the fleeting thought she had had while decorating the birthday cake, that now Jonathan was legally a man, with the right to think for himself. The excitement of piling his plate with their gifts and hurrying Lana to the piano for the "HappyBirthday-to-You" greeting had been topped by his jubilation. = "Mother! Dad! Family! I've got a job. Beginning next Monday I am the newest engineer for the Stallings Bridge and. Construction Company!" And what a job it was! Through excitement bordering on hysteria they learned that it was a $4,000 a year job, with paid vacation and sick leave, and bonus checks for outstanding work. "The extra thousand is for me being top man in my graduating class. And that's only a beginner. Stallings is the best engineering concern in the country, and there's no limit with them. 'Think of it, Dad. Your parasite is no longer." "Y'm still on his list," said Lana drily. "How about a new Cadillac convertible for me?" "Nothing doing. First thing I'm going to buy is a diamond for Lois." "Make mine a bridesmaid dress," suggested Lana. "That's more like it. 'This is the green light for Lois and me!" Life was like a pendulum, Adele reflected, remembering that high moment. It had swung to both extremes in their home tonight. 739 "T never thought to see a son of ours refuse to go on a mission," Tom said in the darkness beside her. She knew he was remembering Jonathan's ancestry—staunch __pioneers who had weathered mobbings, given up their total possessions time and again, crossed plains and mountains for their precious gospel. All down the line they had made great personal sacrifices to carry its glad message to the far corners of the earth. 'Tom was remembering, too, that no sacrifice had equalled the blessings that in turn had been poured out on their heads. "Tom, we have to do something!" "Now, Adele, Jonathan's a good boy. Maybe he'll change his mind." Adele searched her son's face for signs of a change the next morning, but it was closed against her. There was no difference as the week wore on. He borrowed the car to go and see Lois, came home unexpectedly early each night, and took long walks until midnight, but he said no word. Once when Adele could stand it no longer she started to question him. "Jonathan, I'd like to talk to you." "If it's about me going on a misgio, he Gad, "its no use. J always wanted to go, you know that, but there's too much to lose now." Adele spent sleepless nights with a prayer in her heart. Tom was worried, too, but he seemed to sleep anyway. 740 "It's no use, Adele. What is. It the song says? "The arrow is flown, the moments are gone!' We've done our best to teach him—all of the children—right. We've not just sent them to Church. We've taken them. We've lived up to all the things a Latter-day Saint family should do as best we could. 'The test is in the boy himself." It was not until Friday that she found something to do—a straw to grasp at, but something. Tom had mentioned a man she used to know. "Lafe Higgins," she said. "You say they've moved here? I haven't: seen him since he was the age of Jonathan. Such a sweet boy, he >? Was. "He didn't strike me as_particularly sweet," 'Tom grunted. "I'd say he is pretty much of a cynic, a disillusioned man of the world." "Really," murmured Adele. "And he used to be in the Sunday School superintendency, too. He was even called on a mission, but he didn't go." It was then that she got her idea. "Just the same, Tom, I'd like to see him again. Let's invite | him and his wife out to dinner tomorrow night. We have company coming anyway. Lois is coming." "Later, perhaps, but right now while Jonathan.... Well, if you really want them, Adele.... Was he, by any chance, an old beau of yours?" _ Adele was. Already at the telephone, hunting down the H column. Tom looked at her unbelievingly. "Well, all I can say is, there couldn't be a better cure." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 "THe Higginses were smooth people, obviously cultured: Lafe's clothes were well-cut, although his shoulders drooped, and his face had fallen into hard lines, touched faintly with "bitterness. His eyes were shrewd beneath shaggy brows. Mrs. Higgins looked smart rather than beautiful, with expensive, unobtrusive clothes. "Such — distinguished __ people!" whispered Lana in an aside, and Jonathan eyed Mr. Higgins with interest, although his first reaction was one of resentment that his mother should intrude strangers on the visit of Lois. At first the conversation was stiff, but a family trained to hospitality made short work of that. The visitors expanded under the charm and subtle flattery of the children and Tom's waggish good humor. Only Lois regarded the couple with cool, appraising eyes, and her passive _ face neither accepted nor rejected them. In fact, she turned the same face toward them all, and Adele detected a cold, misery behind the girl's beautiful eyes. Without doubt Jonathan had told her of his call. "I wanted to talk to you," she had said to Adele, "but I can see there's no time." No, there was no time. Warmed by food and friendliness, the dinner conversation was becoming scintillating. Mrs. Higgins had a drawling wit as she dwelt on books and plays, on paintings and customs of other countries. Lafe didn't actually brag, but his casual allusions to large mining interests and huge investments in Alaska, in South America, in Syria, and the Rhone Valley were a form HOUR OF DECISION of clever boasting not lost on Adele. As Jonathan's admiration and envy reached fever pitch with the discovery that Lafe was one of those people of the upper realms of engineering —a consulting engineer, Adele's heart plunged. She had really spoiled everything, bringing the tempting byways right to her table, crowding out the precious time before tomorrow morning, but now she had to go through with it. "Lafe, I think it's wonderful that you have climbed so high in your profession and become so cosmopolitan," she said. "Children, you know Lafe and I grew up in the same little country town. In fact, he was in the Sunday School superintendency when I was organist." "Don't tell me, Lafe,"' drawled Mrs. Higgins. "This is a facet of your character I never guessed." Lafe flushed suddenly and said quickly, "That was a long time ago, Adele, hard to remember— harder even to imagine now—me superintendent of a Sunday School. It may surprise you, but I haven't been inside a church. For twenty years. I guess you are still one of the pillars, though. Your folks always were religious." "Yours were, too, Lafe, all of them," Adele observed, and went on not hiding her pride, "yes, we're all active. I'm in the Relief Society, Lana is organist for the Sunday School, like I used to be. We have a Lark, Beehive Girl, Explorer, and Scout in our family. Jonathan, here, is in the Mutual presidency, and T'om's a high priest. He was a newly returned missionary when I met him." 741 "You'll never believe _ this, Adele," said Lafe as if to vindicate himself, "but once I had a call to go on a mission." OR a moment the room was quiet, everyone looking at Lafe. Out of the corner of her eye Adele saw Jonathan's face leap to attention. "IT know that, Lafe," said Adele softly. "I've always wondered why' you didn't take it." "There was too much to lose. I had just received a scholarship, and then I had a girl. I just couldn't see it, not right then." "T remember. Pansy... Pansy Thurber." Lafe had a forkful of food halfway to his mouth, and it stopped as if frozen, and his eyes startled Adele with a naked look of pain, quickly veiled. His wife's eyes were on him with a level look, and there were two bright spots of anger in her cheeks. "But Pansy was too religious for me," Lafe said firmly. "We quarreled and broke up. Whatever happened to her?" "She married a farmer up in the north end of the state. They have nine children." "Nine children!" said Lafe, looking around at the bright faces surrounding the table. Mrs. Higgins' voice cut in quickly, "Lafe and I decided years ago that our wandering life was not suitable for children." "No, Thelma," Lafe denied slowly..""The real decision was made before that—when I had that call to go on a mission. 'That was the choice that determined my way of life." (Continued on page 788) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1891 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL NatTIONs" THE LEAVES ARE FALLING: The poet tells us that the falling of the leaves brings regrets for the beauties and joys that are past, and passing away from us. It is good to be reminded of the sweetness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will sink into our hearts and lives, and the more telling will be the lesson it will teach. We all need reminding of the "sunny hours'' that pass all too quickly, and if we had no shadows, no contrast, but were always basking in light and sunshine we should not even know it was the perfection of beauty; what would we know of daybreak if there was no night, would we rejoice as we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious morning if we had not felt the shadows and the darkness? Certainly not; we can all answer—and would we have the splendor of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that day is departing and night coming on. And if it were always summer, we should not drink in as we do the resplendent glories of the autumn.—Aunt Em. LOVING WORDS Loving words will cost but little, Journeying up the hill of life; But they make the weak and weary Stronger, braver for the strife. Do you count them only trifles? What to earth are sun and rain? Never was a kind word wasted; Never one was said in vain. — FEAR NOT FOR ZION: Much has been accomplished in the great Latter-day work since coming to these valleys, and there is no doubt much more and greater work yet to be done before the ushering in of the Millennium, and the Lord has said He will do nothing except He reveal it to His servants the prophets. And when they re- ' ceive the word of the Lord, if the Saints are in doubt they should seek for a testimony, or if they have not sufficient humility and faith for that, stand still and watch and pray without ceasing and they will not go far astray; but if they give way to murmuring, the experience of the past has proven most effectually that they will fall into darkness, error and unbelief, and become backsliders, dissatisfied and unhappy. God has not forsaken his faithful saints—Selected ST. JOSEPH STAKE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held at Central. Pres. East gave some very good instructions to the sisters which were teeming with love and kindness, asked them to be careful and have their minutes and reports correct. Brother George Cluff urged the young people to reflect more; and spoke of the bad influences they had to withstand when they set out to serve God. Beautifully portrayed the need of mental training, and showed the good advantage of a well cultivated mind, especially when a family are depending mostly upon us for their training. Hoped the young men and women would be noble fathers and mothers, which was always pleasing to God.—Rhoda E. Foster Page 742 ME>- BELLE S. SPAFFORD, general president of Relief Society, had an enriching experience last August in becoming acquainted with Dr. Jeanne Eder-Schwyzer of Zurich, Switzerland, President of the International Council of Women, of which the Relief Society ls an affiliate organization. Mrs. Eder, a doctor of philosophy, spent two days in Salt Lake City. She was traveling from New Zealand and Australia through America. Dr. Fder was educated in America. She was enthralled with Utah scenery and history. Dr. Eder addressed the Relief Society general board and special guests on the meeting of the International Council held last April in Athens, Greece, and spoke of the resolutions passed there. She expressed herself as being "deeply impressed with the work of the Relief Society' and "intensely interested in the welfare program." COLLEEN KAY HUTCHINS, Miss Utah for 1951, was crowned Miss America for 1952 in Atlantic City, September eighth, for her beauty, poise, personality, and talent in a reading from Maxwell Anderson's play, "Elizabeth the Queen." Twenty-five years old, five feet, ten inches tall, blonde, with lovely, expressive blue eyes, and weighing 143 pounds, Miss Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Hutchins is winner of a $5,000 cash award, an additional $4,000 if she is unmarried at the end of her year's reign, a new car, other gifts, and an opportunity to make large sums of money from personal appearances. Colleen is a Latter-day Saint girl, who announced to the press her interest in teaching Sunday School classes and the fact that she does not smoke or drink liquor or coffee. She is a gifted, well-trained dramatic artist and has' done most of her work for a master's degree in speech. FLLORENCE CHADWICK, a San Francisco secretary, and an American swimming star, on September eleventh became the first woman ever to swim the English Channel from the English to the French coast, a much more difficult feat than swimming in the oppo site direction. Experts say this ls probably the greatest channel-swimming feat since Captain Matthew Webb first accomplished the same exploit sixty-seven years ago. RS. RUTH HARTKOPF,, secretary-manager of the Eastern Idaho State Fair since 1948, is the only woman state fair manager in the United States, and an outstandingly successful one as both a planner and an executive. Page 743 O-5 EDITORIAL ~9 VOL. 38 NOVEMBER 1951 NO. 11 She Beginning of Harvest HE rich beauty and fruitfulness shall be led to a land of promise; of harvest are with us again. The fields and orchards and _gardens have yielded after the pattern of abundance. And yet, it is not given us to accept the bounty around us without deep and humble thankfulness, and we should understand some of the reasons why our own land, and other countries which partake of the fruits of the tree of liberty, are truly blessed with spiritual and material abundance. =" Many who look upon a tree grown to majestic height, and bearing a rich harvest, may wonder when, and under what circumstances, the tree was planted—and how it grew from a seed and a sapling into full maturity. Such may be our questions regarding the great tree of liberty under whose wide and spreading branches the Re, public has grown among the nations of the earth, offering the choicest fruit of all—personal liberty—an opportunity for the individual and for the group to grow and develop in the spirit of rejoicing. Let us say that the beginning of the abundant harvest which we enjoy occurred long before the first Europeans beheld the shores of New England. The American continent had long before been designated as a blessed land—a promised land—by our Heavenly Father when he said unto Nephi: "Ye Page 744 yea, even a land which I have prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands." It was given, also, to the Prophet. Nephi, in his time, to see in vision "the spirit of God, that it wrought upon the Gentiles; and they went forth... Upon the many waters" (1 Nephi 13:13). The Pilgrims, standing upon the bleak shores of New England, looking westward to the unknown spaces, were not the first to build homes in the land of the covenant. Yet they, too, nurtured the tree of liberty, for according to the promise, to those who worshiped the Lord of the land, freedom would be vouchsafed. Before the Mayflower touched the shores of the New World, the Pilgrims bound themselves together for justice and co-operation, having "undertaken for the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith, a voyage (we) do solemnly and mutually, in the presence of God, and of one another, covenant and combine ourselves together... To enact... Such just and equal laws... As shall be thought most meet... For the general good." And through the bitterness and hardship of that first winter upon the alien shore, the Pilgrims held high the inner fire of triumph in their freedom, and for this, among EDITORIAL other blessings: of our heritage, we remember them upon this 'Thanksgiving Day. Later, the yielding earth brought their labors into bountiful fruition, and _ future promise was around their bowed heads as they gratefully acknowledged the Giver of all blessings. 'Now God gave them plentie, and the face of things was changed." It was in the seeking for the fruits of the tree of liberty, under which they might establish the restored gospel, that other Pilgrims built their homes and their chapels and their temples far from habitations. In 1852, President Brigham Young, as the Governor of the Territory of Utah, made a 'Thanksgiving Day Proclamation, expressing gratitude and faith and hope, as well as acknowledging the Heavenly Father: 745. Then let the head of each family, with his family, bow down upon his knees before the God of Israel... And call upon the Father in the name of Jesus for every blessing that he desires for himself, his kindred... The universe of man; praying with full: purpose of heart and united faith, that the Union of the Unit- | ed States may be preserved inviolate against all the devices of wicked men, until truth shall reign triumphant, and the glory of Jehovah shall fill the earth that there be no contention in the land; and that the same peace may extend its influence to the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills, and from thence 'to the habitations of every man... To the ends of the earth. Let the tree of liberty long thrive in the promised land and be a source of steadfast strength to the world. At Thanksgiving time it is well to remember, and to be uplifted in knowing how the tree of liberty was planted and the conditions of the beginning of harvest. —V. P. C. She Day Leans Christie Lund Coles The day leans toward the shadows now, The air is evening-cool though sun-caressed; The pear and apple weigh the sturdy bough That not so long ago was whitely dressed In tulle; the birds, less busy than before, Prepare to leave, cocked eyes upon the sun; And where the frogs sat. Blinking on the shore Of summer streams, no shimmering waters run. The quiet days are melancholy here Where the katydids crack sharply on the lawn; The misty haze softens the atmosphere As the mind remembers hours too swiftly gone. And yet, there is a certain joy that stirs, Thinking of fires and snow on lofty firs. Wotes. 10 THE FIELD WVatch Shis Date: Lt Ys Gmportant Mo. Jin Doe LD Provo, Utah Nov. Be sure to watch the expiration month printed on the address label of your Magazine. All subscriptions, whether new or renewal, must reach the office of the Magazine one full month in advance of the issue with which the subscription is to begin. This is important, because there are no back issues available. " = * Be Yust One Step at a Sime Caroline Eyring Miner WE can live a relatively serene and happy life if we learn to live it a moment at a time, if we concern ourselves with the step we are taking today and not with the steps we took yesterday and may take tomorrow. Most of our worries have to do with the yesterdays or tomorrows, of a few minutes or a few years long. It was an all-wise Father who had us forget our pre-existent past and gave us but little knowledge of our existence after this life. I believe it was his purpose for us to live fully and completely as the moments go by. Many a task seems impossible of accomplishment if viewed as a whole, but there are none of us but who can work seeming miracles just plodding away the best we can each moment. I recently undertook a long and difficult trip over mountainous roads. Had I stopped to fret over the difficulties of the trip as a whole, I probably would never have undertaken the trip and would have foregone a glorious experience. Instead, I just said to myself, ''Surely I can drive a few feet at a time, and that is all I shall be doing at any particular time, isn't it? Sometimes I have been foolish enough to lie in bed a few moments in the morning contemplating the whole day's work that must be done, baking, ironing, cooking, and a host of other things. I honestly begin to wonder how I'll ever last out the day. Once out of bed and at my work, however, I do all that I can each moment, and, at the end of the day, the miracle has been wrought. We may admire a good book, a beautifully painted picture, a splendidly performed musical selection, and sigh, "How was it ever accomplished?" 'The answer is, "A step at a time the skill was acquired, and a step at a time the masterpiece was performed." A step at a time is a wholesome and practical philosophy to sustain one in trial and to bolster one up to perform great tasks. "Just one step at a time, and the seemingly impossible is often accomplished." Page 746 ~ Preparing Your Child for School and for Lite Celia Luce: ATURALLY you would like N Junior to shine in school. You would like his teacher to say, "Now there is an ideal student, alert, well adjusted, and doing a fine job in his school work." If this is what you want, then begin while your child is very young and work for it. First, you must give the child a sense of security. Start with the newborn baby and let him know that he is loved and important. Let each child know that he fills a spot no one else on earth can fill. If doubts and worry take all a child's thoughts, he has no time left over for school work. Fear is closely allied with worry, and just as bad. Never frighten your child to make him mind. Of course he must have a proper respect for such things as fire. But let fear be only for real dangers, never for superstitions and "bogey men." Let him know that God watches over him, and that most fears are unnecessary. Then life and new situations become new adventures. For the child who knows fear, however, school can be a terrifying place. He is taken to a strange room, full of strange people, not knowing quite what is expected of him. Mother goes off and leaves him. But school need not be that way. If a child has been to Sunday School and Primary, he is used to being left with a teacher and with children his own age. Some of the group are his friends. It isn't an entirely new situation. They sing songs and hear stories, just as they do in Sunday School. Scarcely any time is needed to get used to school. The child is almost at once ready to begin learning. 'This may give him several days head start when days really count. It will also give him a happy adjustment to school, which some children never get. Crayons and scissors should be old friends, too. Much time is used in kindergarten and first grade in teaching the child skill in cutting and coloring. If he can already do these well, he gets the feeling of satisfaction of a job well done. It gives him an added confidence in himself which will carry over into other school subjects. He is starting out as a "good student." Books should certainly be loved as old friends. This is more important than most parents realize. In one community the teachers found one grade of students who couldn't learn to read well. Each teacher worked hard, but nothing seemed to help much. Other grades in the same school, with the same teachers, were doing excellent work. Finally, the fifth grade teacher went to the superintendent for help. As a matter of interest, he made a survey of the homes from Page 747 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Willard Luce YOUNG ARTISTS AT WORK. Skill in coloring and cutting should be acquired at home when the child is still small. Which the children came. A surprising fact was discovered. Over ninety per cent of the homes had no reading material of any sort in them. 'There were no books, no magazines, no newspapers. 'This was certainly not true of the town as a whole, as the survey and the reading ability of the other grades revealed. How could children be expected to be interested in reading when their parents were not interested, and books were strange to them? MAKE book friends in your home. Let the child start handling books as soon as he shows any interest, but don't just turn him loose and Jet him destroy them. The moment he starts to tear or mistreat a book or magazine, take it away. Sit down with him ofttimes and leaf through the books and magazines together. He'll love it. As the child grows a little older, teach him nursery rhymes and tell him simple stories. A few picture books will help, too. Soon the child will be ready for storybooks. Each child should have a few of his own books that can be read over and over. 'These books need not be expensive. Excellent ones can be bought at a small price. Examine carefully each book you place in your home. The problem, however, may not be so much in finding good books, as in deciding which of the many completely delightful books you should buy. If you live near a public library, your problem is simplified. You will be amazed at the change in the PREPARING YOUR CHILD FOR SCHOOL AND FOR LIFE 749 ~books available in libraries the last few years. Get some good books to read to Junior, and you will enjoy them, too. Parents should certainly not overlook The Children's Friend, published by the. Primary Association of the Church. 'The stories and pictures it contains are seasonal, and the child may make the contents his very own. As you study children's magazines, you will find that The Children's Friend is one of the best and most attractive. There is another important way you can prepare your child for school and for life. Surely, you have met adults who are bored with life. In this great, fascinating world, they can find nothing to interest them. Willard Luce A friend told me the following story. He was riding in a car with two men. One was past seventy, and the other was his grandson. Both of them had plenty of money and plenty of time to travel. The ride was long, and it led through the wild desert country of Southeastern Utah. The young grandson was bored. Occasionally, he glanced out of the car window, but only occasionally. 'There were just rocks and more rocks, not even many trees. Finally, the young man went to sleep. The older man sat forward in his seat and watched the scenery intently. He loved this country and didn't want to miss a single weird formation. He saw the strange colors on. The great cliffs. He saw Tarot ORY HOUR Stories read together add greatly to the importance of books and reading. 750 the sweep of magnificent spaces and their patterns and contrasts of colors. It was a wonderful ride, and the old man didn't intend to miss any of it. CHILDREN begin with an interest in life as great as that of older people. 'The world is a wonderful place, and they want to know all about it. Who can tell them? Why, Mother, of course. So Susie toddles in to Mother, and starts asking questions. If Susie is lucky, Mother will listen carefully and give the best answer she can. Some questions Mother cannot answer, so she says, "I wish I knew that, too," or "That is something no one knows," or "Let's find it out together." If Susie is unlucky, Mother merely says, "Oh, don't bother me with silly things like that. ''m busy." And soon Susie begins to lose interest in the things around her. She stops questioning, and the great mys-— teries of the world may be lost to her. She may grow to become just another bored adult. } If you cannot answer your child's questions, at least you can take time to listen to them. Interest in the things that interest a child is more important than knowing the answers. But sometimes you ought 'to help him find the answers, too. If you haven't a set of encyclopedias at home, the school or library has some you may use. Some of our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 magazines are full of helpful information. Just by using your eyes, you can learn a lot with your child. Watch the insects in the garden. Plant some seeds together, and watch them grow. 'Take time to look at the pretty rocks Junior gathers. Watch the stars change positions with the seasons of the year. If you cannot answer all Junior's questions, at least question with him. When he comes to some of the answers in school, he will be that alert, interested child you want him to be. Some children, who may have difficulty in mastering reading and arithmetic, may make a valuable contribution in nature and science and handicraft. A keen interest in life and in the world can make up for some deficiencies and lack of opportunity. The habit of questioning is most important. How else can a person learn than by question; ing and having his questions considered thoughtfully and, if possible, answered. Prepare your child for school, then, and for life, from the time he is an infant, by giving him a deep sense of security; by having him associate in groups of children his own age, such as Sunday School or Primary; by providing him with suitable books; encouraging his curiosity and interest in the world about him; and by attempting to answer his questions. Puddings for Shanksgiving Home Service Department Mountain Fuel Supply Company Carrot Plum Pudding 1. Mix and sift together three times: 1 c. Flour "2 tsp. Salt % c. White sugar - 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 tsp. Nutmeg | 1 tsp soda % tsp. Cloves 2. Add: "2 c. Brown sugar "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 1 c. Grated carrots 1 small bottle maraschino 1 c. Grated raw potatoes | cherries 1 c. Grated apples | % c. Melted butter 1 c. Seedless raisins or g tbsp. Suet, ground 1 c. Chopped dates 3. Steam in greased baking powder cans or in a double boiler for 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream or Caramel Sauce. Serves 12. Note: If kept cold, this pudding will keep for months. It may also be bottled and stored in the cellar for later use., Caramel Sauce FO Oe % ¢c. Sugar 2. Add and simmer until all sugar is dissolved - 1 cc. Boiling water 3. In another pan, melt 2.2.2.2 eee ce tence ee eene eee eeteeeeee6 tbsp. Butter AN d | IE rr4 tbsp. Flour 7 tsp. Salt eeae lc. Water Caramelized liquid 6. Stir until smooth and thick. Divinity Pudding LD. CGMS 2 0. Neseoeceneecanneennsenneecescennesencencnonecsaceenserececere6 tbsp. Cornstarch 1% ec. Brown sugar I Twa e200 a ETE sSscoen2n28sStnonenceesererweneerenenees 2 ¢. Hot water 3. Cook, stirring constantly, until thick and transparent. 4. Pour slowly lmt0 2 scsccecsceesseseececeeeeeeecceeeeeceseeseneeneees 3 beaten egg whites 5. Beat constantly while adding. 6. Beat for a long time (7 to 10 minutes). Go) eee Yc. Nuts 1 c. Dates, chopped 1 tsp. Vanilla 8. Pour into molds rinsed 'in cold water. G. Serve with custard sauce or whipped cream. Page 75] 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Custard Sauce 1. Beat slightly with fork 200 teeeeeteeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeee3 OBZ yolks 2. Add 2.2.2.2++2 poe eo "A C. Sugar 7 tsp. Salt 3. Stir constantly while adding - W..2-2..2.-.2..-. Ecceseceeeceeeeeeeeeoes 2. ¢. Scalded milk 4. Cook in a double boiler, stirring until mixture thickens and a coating is formed on the spoon. 5 Chill amd add oon eect eetceeeeeeececececceeeeecceeeecnenesseneeeesenes "2 tsp. Vanilla G ray Sides C. Cameron Johns Why am I engulfed by gray seas of lone}iness When scarlet leaves go spinning down the wind, When silent corridors of the orchard Have forgotten the voice of the harvester, And stir only to infrequent bird calls; 4 When the smoke of early leaf pyres Has blotted out the scent of summer, When the waning sun harbors the prisms of winter? The scarlet leaves drop at my feet And the gray tide covers me. Brake Adventure Sut and Dream Marian Schroder Crothers Grace B. Wilson Who has not seen the wild geese fly Sit and dream awhile. In wedge formation ° Across the far spaces Sharply etched against the darkening sky, Daylight fades, The laggards trailing? And not a gleam is seen Strong wing beats bear them on, Save a few high stars And steadily they pass, That keep eternal watch Their clamorous voices calling. Over the timeless desert. Who tells them when to go and when to come? Sit awhile and dream Who charts their course? Of timelessness of desert, Who holds them thus together, And of man. Brave company upon a brave adventure? Through This Door CHAPTER 4 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Mary Ruth Grayson tries to care for her father and her motherless brothers and sisters. Rachel Marriott, who had once been wealthy, comes to live in the shabby old house across the street, and with much effort manages to make the place homelike and attractive for her husband and daughter Lora. Mrs. Marriott takes an interest in Mary Ruth and teaches her some of the arts of housekeeping, as well as giving her love and companionship. Mrs. Marriott, very much worried over her financial situation, begins to make dresses for children. Mary Ruth falls in love with Tom Mack, and, later, becomes acquainted with Chnis Jordan, Mrs. Marriott's nephew. Said to Tom. "Now I know that's what I want to be." "Yeah," Tom growled, "in Chris' office, I suppose." "Oh, Tom!" I was filled with a love for him that was almost maternal at this moment, not the adoring, blind love of the past months. "You're jealous. You needn't be. 'll be a nurse and come back here and help... Oh, everybody that needs me. 'They don't have any nurse at all around here, except old Mrs. Jensen, and she's nearly sixty." Tom was silent for a moment, then he smiled and wiggled my nose with the tip of his finger. "You win, Mary Ruth. I think that would be swell. I sort of thought up some plans myself." "like what, Tom?" He stuffed his hands in his pockets and kicked at a clump of snow 6 fe going to be a nurse," I beside the gate. "Playgrounds. There isn't anything here, except the two swings over at school. Kids ought to have a big playground with someone to teach them things. Oh, you know what I mean, Mary Ruth." Our hands met and clung. All the unsaid words floated around us in the dark, all the forming plans, too big to be voiced now. I looked over at the Marriott house, where only the upstairs lights were burning now, blurring through my tears. When I turned in at our street the next afternoon, there was Chris Jordan waiting for me, the lazy snowflakes circling his dark head. "Aunt Rachel said this was about the time you arrived home. Can you go for a walk, or do you have to start taking care of all your children?" He was laughing at me, but in a 'warm, friendly fashion. "You make me sound like the old woman in the shoe," I said. "Impossible. 'There never was anyone as young as you, Mary Ruth." I caught my breath and said primly, "I want to thank you, Mr. Jordan, for all the things you talked about last night. They will change my whole life." "Is that so?" He guided my arm, and we turned the next corner and were at once in the country. "How?" well.. It's just that that..." I looked at him helplessly. Page 753 754 "Everything got deeper and higher and wider. I'm going to be a nurse." "Why, Mary Ruth I think I think that's very fine." "And Tom's life is all changed, too?" "Is he going to be a nurse?" "No," I said coldly, angry at his laughter. ""He's going to build playgrounds here, for the children. We don't have any. I'll come back here and be the nurse... And Tom will be a teacher. Doesn't it sound wonderful?" | Chris Jordan was silent so long I had to prod him. "Well, don't you think it is?" His voice sounded flat and heavy. "I suppose so. We'd better get back, Mary Ruth, it's getting dark." T was June, at last, and our graduations were over and done. The one road that had been before me branched out into several roads, but the one road I wanted more than. Anything else in the world to take, seemed blocked. That was the nurse road. 'That road led to college and then to the hospital and then back home to my people. I longed to travel it so intensely that sometimes I could almost feel the crisp, starched cap upon my head. It wasn't leaving the family, alone, that was the obstacle. Aunt Mercedes' husband had died, and she was more than willing to come and keep house for Dad, who was her brother, and for my fast-growing brothers and sisters. It was the money to go to college, and a place to stay while I went. I had neither. "It will come," Mrs. Marriott insisted, "just be on the watch for the opportunity when it does come." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 "Tt would have to be as small as a microbe to elude me," I promised her grimly. Then one day I met Mr. Jones, the high school principal. I was in the drugstore buying vitamin pills for the boys, who were looking scrawny. "Mary Ruth," he said, "I believe I have the answer to your problem." I danced on my toes. "You have? Really, Mr. Jones?" | He nodded solemnly. "Mrs. Williams is moving back to the city, her husband has been made _ branch manager of the bank. She asked me the other day if I knew of a good country girl to go back with | her, work for her room and board and a small salary. I mentioned you. She seemed very pleased." My dancing feet stood still. The bright sunlight dimmed into the face of a thin, quiet girl, reading to Connie in the car. A girl who had gone away thirsty because there wasn't time for her to have a drink. The maid. I backed away from Mr. Jones. "Thank you very much, Sir, but I couldn't work for Mrs. Williams. I just couldn't. I'd rather never go to school." "Very well, Mary Ruth." Mr. Jones was stern and _ displeased. "You understand this is a rare opportunity?" "Oh, yes, Sir. But I can't." Out of the drugstore, I ran toward Mrs. Marriott's house, which had become my unfailing sanctuary. GHE met me at the door, her face alight, and drew me in. "Oh, Mary Ruth, the nicest thing has happened to me. Just wait until you hear," THROUGH THIS DOOR I listened dully to her news. A store in town had asked her to supply them with dresses for little girls, as many as she could make. She was getting a power machine, and Mrs. Callister was coming in to help.. I tried to match her enthusiasm, but my throat was thick with tears. "What is it, Mary Ruth?" The instant, unfailing tenderness enfolded me. I told her about the job. "I said I wouldn't do it, and I won't. I wouldn't work for her if she was the last person in the world!" GHE stroked my shoulder. "But school starts very soon. You haven't much longer to make up your mind, Mary Ruth." "But I can't, Mrs. Marriott. Not there' She bit her lip. "If blessings would just come to us, labeled, we wouldn't have such a hard time making up our minds to take them." I stopped crying at once. "You don't," I demanded, "think Mrs. Williams is a blessing?" Mrs. Marriott looked far away. "When we came here I was so utterly cast down that I was ready to run away. I never dreamed that losing our money would prove the greatest blessing I had known." She laughed and patted my cheek. "And the day I met Thelma Williams, I had just a few dollars left. Like you, I never would have placed a golden label on her." I stood up. "You win. I'll go, if only to prove that in this case you are just as wrong as you can be." Tom was going to the University of California, at Los Angeles. He 755 was beside himself with his own dreams and plans. But he stayed in town until the day I left for the city and my job. He drove me to the station in the battered car that was as familiar and dear as his own dark head and his dark blue eyes. He said, "Any time you can't take it, Mary Ruth, just send me a wire and I'll come running. We'll get married and Pil get a job. You don't have to take anything from anyone." So there it was, a high, good wall all around me. No one could hurt me now, or frighten me. I had Tom. He pulled my hair. "You're going to look very cute with a cap on those curls." Then we were silent, with all the last year's sweetness circling around us, and all the unknown tomorrows beckoning imperiously with the shrill train whistle. Only time for the briefest kiss, the shortest touch of our hands, before I was on the train and away. I saw Tom standing beside his little car until we reached the curve by the water tower. I leaned back and gathered all that day's pictures in my mind. Dad, so pleased and proud of my ambition, giving me his own battered billfold to hold my precious supply of money. The youngsters crowding around me, crying because they hated to see me go, and Aunt Mercedes comforting them and coaxing them into laughter. Mrs. Marriott coming to place in my hands her gift of a lovely robe and absurd, knitted slippers. "We're going to be so proud of you," she whispered. "Mary Ruth, remember always how we love you." 756 I was glad she had said that in the days that came and went, because it was hard at Mrs. Williams' house.: Fven the first day, she drove around the beautiful grounds and the imposing front door to leave me at the back door. She led me downstairs, past the polished and colorful rumpus room, to the bleak little corner that was my room. "Put your bags down here, Mary Ruth," she said. "I'll explain to you S a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 your duties in each room as we come to it." The rooms were like none I had ever seen. Beautiful and modern and sharply new. The kitchen was painted pink, pink walls, blue shining floors, little shelves that held the loveliest brica-brac, and a long row of gleaming electrical appliances. I looked with dismay at the array of buttons and lights. Would I ever learn how to use them all? (To be continued) yRY & Mlinnie Campion, Ninety-Swo Years Old. — Has Music for a Hobby MESNIE Campion, ninety-two years old, is active physically, spiritually, and mentally. She still plays the piano, writes poetry, memorizes many poems, and gives excellent readings. Her home in Brigham City, Utah, is surrounded by lovely flowers which. Receive most regular and tender care. Once a splendid vocalist, Sister Campion says that her voice is "cracked" now. Minnie Campion was born in Denmark, came to Utah as a baby, and shared a happy childhood with a family of seven children on a farm where there was much work to do and much enjoyment of homemade entertainment. Five of Sister Campion's six children are still living, and she has six grandchildren and _ five great-grandchildren. Still active in Relief Society, which she has served for more than sixty years, she walks several blocks each Tuesday to attend her meetings. A long life, enriched by service to others, enjoyment of her family, devotion to the arts, and Church activity, has been a blessing to Sister Campion and to all who know this woman who lives life so fully and so beautifully. MINNIE CAMPION Minnie Campion Entertains Her Family With Her Playing. 758 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 These two or three ideas should lead the way to many more pretty salads. CueEr's GREEN SALAD Line large or individual salad bowls with crisp lettuce leaves. Break up into lined bowl few leaves of spinach and lettuce. Slice hard-cooked eggs and tomato wedges cut quite thin for the next raver. Pieces of avocado add a delicious flavor. Lay long pieces of cold chicken, turkey, or ham across the top. Serve with French dressing. Owns Ne SALAD COMBINATIONS Fruit Spiced apples and grapefruit, frozen fruit salad. Apricot, peach, or pear halves filled with Philadelphia cheese. Avocado, orange, and grapefruit sections. One-half avocado filled with orange sections. Pear halves with grated American cheese. Prunes or dates stuffed with Philadelphia cream cheese or cottage cheese. Apple, grapefruit, and orange sections around cottage cheese. Apples, celery, chopped nuts, and raisins. Cinnamon bean apples stuffed with celery and nuts. Cantaloupe rings filled with raspberries, dewberries, or cherries and watermelon balls, grapes, and mint. Cantaloupe rings filled with grapefruit sections. Oranges, Spanish onions, and white grapes. Cabbage 'Cabbage alone, or with green pepper or celery, red apples, grapes, pineapple, or beets Cabbage, spinach, and celery Cabbage and pineapple set in lime jello Red cabbage, carrots, onions, radishes, and celery Cabbage, shrimp, green pepper, cucumber, avocado, onions Carrots Carrots, shredded, and pineapple in orange jello Carrots and raisins, with peanut butter dressing Carrots, eggs, beans, peas, beets Carrots, ground, with coconut and chopped orange molded in orange jello Other Vegetables Spinach, cucumbers, celery, radishes, onions Spinach, lettuce, radishes, sliced raw zucchini, onions, watercress, and parsley Green pepper, stuffed with cheese and cut into thin slices Tomatoes and cottage cheese Tomatoes and avocado Green salad with tomato wedges Tomatoes and cucumbers Tomatoes stuffed with cucumbers, green pepper, onions, walnuts, and tomato pulp Tomatoes stuffed with shrimp, celery, onions, and green peppers ADD SPARKLE AND ZEST TO YOUR MENUS; 7159 FRENCH DRESSING Mix together in a deep bowl: % tsp. Mustard (dry) 1 tsp. Sugar % tsp. Paprika % tsp. Salt 2. Add: % c. Oil 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Tomato catsup. 3. Beat vigorously just before serving. 4. Use at once, as the emulsion breaks quickly.: NOTE: A suggestion of garlic improves the dressing. If a less tart dressing is desired, add % c. Water and more sugar. THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING Mix together: 1 Cc. Mayonnaise 1 tsp. Onion juice or finely chopped onion 1 tbsp. Chili sauce 1 egg, hard-cooked tbsp. Pimento tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle tbsp. Catsup tbsp. Chopped green pepper ~~ hm 2. Serve on crisp greens, such as lettuce. Fruir SALAD DRESSING Mix: 1% tbsp. Cornstarch "4 c. Sugar pinch of salt Make a paste with % c. Pineapple juice. Heat and blend with paste % c. Pineapple juice. Stir constantly in double boiler until thickened. Boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and add 2 tbsp. Lemon juice. Cool.. When ready to serve mix with % c. Whipped cream. Co Op wy NOTE: Orange or other fruit juice may be substituted for part or all of the pineapple juice. One half tbsp. Grated orange rind may be added. One egg yolk may be added just before the lemon juice, if desired. Sour CREAM DRESSING Mix together: | % c. Horseradish 1 Cc. Sour cream 1 Clove garlic, crushed fine 1 c. Salad dressing % tsp. Worcestershire sauce Idleness and wastefulness are not according to the rules of heaven. Preserve all you can, that you may have abundance to bless your friends and your enemies. —Brigham Young The Neglected Art of Photo-Coloring Clara Laster BOUT eight wears ago I taught myself the art of photo-coloring. This knowledge has been not only a source of pleasure for me, but also a source _ of making money. Many people today desire to paint with oils. They would like to create something beautiful on canvas, but they neglect to try. They realize that a person should have both talent and training. However, there is an art that even an older child can do without training. It is the lovely old art of photo-coloring, yet it is a sadly neglected one. - Women may teach themselves, in their homes, how to paint photographs. Besides saving money and making money, it provides a worthwhile creative hobby. MarTeErIALs NEEDED Now, if you have decided that you would like to try this art, I will tell you how to go about it. Good materials are essential. They may be bought at any art-supply department. You will need: one set of sable brushes, one basswood drawing board, and a white enameled artist's pallette. Don't forget a bottle of light drying oil and a bottle of turpentine. You will also need push pins, absorbent cotton, and two wooden skewers. Next come the oils. Get eight tubes: crimson, burnt sienna, raw sienna, yellow, blue, black, vermilion, and white. Page 760 PREPARATION Before mixing your paints, go out and observe nature. Study lights and shadows made by the sun. Note how the colors change on a dull day. Look at the flowers, foliage, and birds. See how the greatest Artist of all blended his colors. Get a scrapbook and paste in it colored pictures or scenes from magazines for use later as color harmony guides. Remember, a glossy picture cannot be colored in oils. It is best to have your print finished on a rough surface paper, sepia in tone.. Always work in daylight, arranging the drawing board so that the light will come over your left shoulder. Brushes must be cleaned each time after being used. Wash them first with soap and water, then wipe them on a piece of cloth which has been dampened with turpentine. To make flesh, rose, orange, or gold, mix varying amounts of raw sienna and crimson; dark brown or maroon can be made by mixing burnt sienna, red, and black. For gray, use a thin wash of black. For silver, a wash of blue. You will need this knowledge when you - start on portraits. PROCEDURE Choose, for your first attempt, a scene of some sort. Remember, if you are not satisfied with your first THE NEGLECTED ART OF PHOTO COLORING 761 work, all the paint can be removed by using a wad of cotton dampened with turpentine. Be sure and let the picture dry before starting again, however. Place a table and chair by a window. You will need a low stand on which to place your materials, and don't forget a clean cloth for the hands. Sit down in chair, place the drawing board on your lap, and let it rest against the table. Now, fasten the photograph to the board with push pins. Choose a color guide from your scrapbook to help you select the right color combinations. Now, twist some cotton around the tip ends of the wooden skewers to use as blenders. 'Take your palette and squeeze into separate wells a bit of crimson, burnt sienna, raw sienna, and blue. Replace the caps on the tubes. Pour into the cup of the palette about one-half teaspoon of light drying oil. You are now ready to color. Dip a large brush into the drying oil. Use just enough to moisten the brush. Using the same brush, pick up a little of the blue color. Mix in the middle of your palette. Now, with bold strokes, go back and forth across the sky. 'Take a piece of cotton, rolled tight, to blend the paint with circular motion. You will need several pieces of cotton before a clear, even tone of blue is obtained. To the lower part of the sky, add a bit of purple. This can be made by mixing a bit of crimson with blue. Blend after each application. If your sky has clouds, take a wooden skewer, and with the cottoncovered tip, remove the paint from the clouds. 'To make a pink, fluffy cloud, mix a bit of crimson and 762 white together. Apply this to the print and blend. Always use clean cotton. Remove from trees, flowers, and grass any paint that may have been brushed on them while painting the sky. (Be careful that you do not touch the turpentine cotton to your sky.) To make green, mix a bit of blue and raw sienna together. Apply this to trees and grass. Take a piece of cotton and blend. Now, take a clean skewer and rub over the places where the sunlight appears. Add a bit of raw sienna to depict sunshine. Always blend with cotton after each application of color. Leaves are always stippled in the foreground. Use a small brush and make small, short touches. Paint autumn leaves with raw sienna and burnt sienna. The summer leaves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 are different shades of green. Foreground flowers are painted heavy, while distant flowers are blended. Portraits are painted in much the same way as scenes are painted. For portraits, however, you will have more highlights and shadows. The hair is colored in masses and all hard lines should be blended. The eyes should have a soft expression, and little paint is needed. Lips are hard to paint. Try doing it with your smallest brush and blending with the wooden skewer. When a picture is dry, frame it. This gives it a professional look. Don't expect perfection to come at once. You will have to try again and again. But it can be accomplished. Learning to become a color artist is an experience you will enjoy. It is truly a worthwhile art, and it gives great satisfaction. - Autumn inds the Canyon Evelyn Fjeldsted Beneath the canyon's autumn skies, Shadows lift soft velvet folds And vanish as the sun's white rays Above the mountain colors rise. And every day and all night long Golden leaves, bright crimson leaves, Drift slowly, quietly to earth And winds weave magic into song. A bronze, complacent moon will gild The cliffs and slopes with russet sheen; Listless streams and sleepy sounds Long hesitant will then be stilled. An autumn midnight still and deep Falls gently on this land aloof— Glistening frost, a trace of ice, And canyon life is lost in sleep. A Faith-Promoting Memory Esther L. Warburton President, Woodruff Stake Relief Society [N August 1925, long before the Woodruff Stake was divided and the Lyman Stake created, a number of cars with stake officers and auxiliary representatives left Evanston, Wyoming, early on a Saturday morning to pay an annual visit to the outlying wards of Manila, Utah, and McKinnon, Wyoming. The weather was beautiful, cool as always in the early morning, here over a mile high in the mountains. The trip through the badlands of Wyoming was very interesting, the absence of vegetation and of bird life, the drab, gray coloring, and the peculiar formation of the rocks made it a weird experience. We stopped to take pictures and posed as a group among the strange formations. My little girl, then only five years old, was somehow pushed behind the others and hidden from view. President John M. Baxter, first president of Woodruff Stake, as always solicitous of the children, said, "Why, we have forgotten the little girl. When we are all gone from this life, this little girl will be traveling over this stake of Zion as a stake officer.". This has been literally fulfilled, for at the present time she is a stake officer of the Lyman Stake and has filled a stake mission in the Woodruff Stake, showing the prophetic vision of the Priesthood. In the early evening we camped by a stream. There were no signs of human life anywhere, but birds were twittering and singing their vesper hymns. President Baxter then said, "We had better eat our supper, as the friends we are going to visit are miles from a store, and we do not want to work a hardship on them." When supper was ready President Baxter asked Brother Joseph Hatch to offer prayer, and there we all knelt on the grass in the solemn hush that comes in the twilight hour just before nightfall. The prayer offered was so humble, so sincere, that we all felt our Heavenly Father was indeed near and _ listening to our petition. We proceeded on our way, and as we topped the next hill, we saw two men on horseback coming to meet us. 'They were members of the bishopric of McKinnon Ward and were looking for those of us who were going to McKinnon. Not a habitation could be seen, but we went on over hill and dale until we came to a little cottage nestled at the foot of a mountain. Here lived the president of the Relief Society, Sister Pulham. (She and her husband were converts to the Church from Norwich, England.) N entering the house, we were greeted by Sister Pulham, and, to. Our surprise, a sumptuous banquet was ready, and such a "feast of fat things'"—fried chicken, cream gravy, fluffy mashed potatoes, dainty rolls, ice cream and cake—and all Page 763 764 - a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 195] this for people who, half an hour before, had eaten a big supper! We hadn't the heart to say we had eaten, so we managed to eat again, with Sister Pulham pressing all the good things upon us. The beautifully appointed table, set so attractively, caused us to reflect that true nobility and refinement depend upon good breeding. The lovely damask linen, pretty dishes and glassware, the beautiful silverware, combined with sweet flowers and gracious hospitality, made it a visit never to be forgotten. | We slept in lavender-scented sheets, with the cool mountain breeze blowing in through the pretty white curtains, and awoke to Sunday peace and stillness. After breakfast began a day of activity. We rode to the schoolhouse in a mountain wagon driven by a twelveyear-old grandson of our host. All the membership of the little ward was present. We held a Sunday School, a Relief Society meeting, with an officers' meeting afterwards. 'Then they served lunch, with all the people sitting at the desks in the one-room school building. Afterward came sacrament meeting, and the brethren also held their Priesthood meeting. Still those good people were not weary, and said if we would come back after they had been home to do their chores (many living five, ten, and fifteen miles from the schoolhouse), we could hold another meeting. When we arrived at the meeting place again we found a large congregation and also the rest of the party back from Manila. Such a rich outpouring of the spirit of the Lord, such testimonies were borne! Prayers were offered that came right from the heart; hymns were sung with heartfelt sincerity, without benefit of accompaniment from a musical instrument, and all by the light of lanterns. Memories like this fill my heart with gratitude for membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with thankfulness that forty years ago the mission-: aries brought the gospel message to me in faraway England. Many years have gone by since this trip was taken, and many of those who participated have passed on to their reward. But some remain to still carry on and_ bear testimony to the truth of the everlasting gospel. O_o November Wind Zera Wilde Earl The honeysuckle vine keeps tapping, tapping Outside the window in the fading light; Its leaves still cling though summertime is over And poplar trees stand bare against the night. An echo of your joyous planting, tending, Of summer sweetness that you made, lives on. This gray November night your vine keeps tapping, Though you are gone. From The Field 4 ~ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Wanda Lee RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO), MENAN SECOND WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY HONORING PAST AND PRESENT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS March 17, 1951 Left to right: Second Counselor Mary Martin; Secretary Leith S. Huffaker; First Counselor Grace Berrett; former President Leona G. Purcell; present President Alice Clark; former presidents June F. Green and Mary Gunderson. Page /6 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Janet Kirton PARK STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY LUNCHEON, HONORING FORMER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, BOARD MEMBERS, AND THE WARD PRESIDENCIES, May 3, 1951 Back row, standing, left to right: Stake Secretary Elnora Day; former stake Relief Society presidents Hulder Johnson and Ruby Karpowitz; President Naoma W. Seaich; First Counselor Janet Kirton; Second Counselor Fay Batty. This luncheon is an annual social in Park Stake, and this year the program consisted of music and a book review. Wards represented were Tenth, Webster, Emigration, Duncan, First, LeGrande, Thirty-first, and the Deaf Branch. Photograph submitted by Florence P. Nielson ROOSEVELT STAKE (UTAH), ROOSEVELT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE HIGH RECORD FOR 1950 Second Counselor Carma Winterton is standing first from the left on the back tow; Louisa Buchanan, visiting teacher message leader, fifth from the left on the front row; Cora Todd, Secretary-Treasurer, tenth from the left on the back row. Geneva F. Gilbert, First Counselor, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society, fifth from the right, back row. The record of these loyal and devoted visiting teachers was 99 % per cent for 1950. Florence P. Nielson is president of Roosevelt Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 ines cates RX CAS a AN A tn nos "RA MA Cen la taba at hs oh RE ee ON eee DAD OP ACTS IIR SIT LILI TP STOR TE Photograph submitted by Elizabeth P. Lambert OAHU STAKE (HAWAII), LANAKILA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY EMBLEM QUILT DISPLAYED AT CONVENTION, August 3, 1951 Elizabeth P. Lambert, left, President, Lanakila Ward Relief Society, reports that the idea for this lovely quilt was suggested by Sister Miu Lang Kuhns. "Brother Nawai Kekoolani was asked to draw the pattern for us." Commenting upon the visit of First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the general presidency, and Sister Aleine M. Young, member of the general board, Sister Lambert expresses her appreciation: "We all enjoyed the convention. Actually hearing instructions from the officials makes a better impression than just reading them, and they last longer in the minds of the women." Sadie Kamaile Kauhini is president of Oahu Stake Relief Society. 768. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Mary Kaiser DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, COPENHAGEN BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to right: Kirsten Andersen; Erma Corelli; Johanne Ostrup; Selma Harbee; Anna Holmquist, assistant director; Mary Kaiser, organist; Minnie B. Sorensen; Emma Enksen; Aagot Thomsen. Back row, standing, left to right: Flora Hansen; Anna Lundgren; Caroline Bregentoft; Martha Madsen; Valborg Johansen, director; Nielsine Kirsted; Thora Henricksen; Martha Nielsen; Louise Sorensen; Fanny Jacobsen. Sister Kaiser, reporting as the Danish Mission Relief Society Secretary, comments on this chorus as one of several similar groups in the Danish Mission: "We feel that the Singing Mothers is a wonderful part of the Relief Society organization." Minnie B. Sorensen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Kathryn M. Merrill TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), FIRST WARD CLOSING SOCIAL May 29, 1951 Front row, seated, beginning fifth from the left, left to right: Counselor Lillian Davidson; President Mary Wright; Counselor Alta Webb; Twin Falls Stake Relief Society President Kathryn M. Mernill. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 5—Orihah to Coriantumr Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 8-11.) For Tuesday, February 5, 1952 Objective: From a study of the history of the Jaredite nation under the rule of kings, to emphasize the necessity of obeying prophetic counsel. Note to Class Leaders: The limitations of this lesson do not allow a detailed account of the reigns of kings from Orihah to Conantumr. Throughout the narrative the class leader would do well to point out the lesson to be gained from the results of righteousness or wickedness in the lives of the Jaredite people. She may deal with the details of the different reigns as she sees fit. It is suggested that different sisters be given assignments on certain kings or happenings to help differentiate these in the minds of the class members. A listing of the kings on a blackboard would be helpful to refer to as the lesson proceeds. The class leader will note that the lesson contains two parts—the first one a narration of part of the history of the Jaredites, and the second, certain teachings of Moroni. N our last lesson we learned that the people under the direction of Jared and his brother fervently desired that their leaders appoint one of their sons to be their king. The brother of Jared warned them of the danger of such a plan, saying, "Surely this thing leadeth into captivity" (Ether 6:23). Jared interceded, however, and advised his brother to permit the people to have a king. The brother of Jared yielded to Jared's request, saying to the people, "Choose ye out from among our sons a king, even whom ye will" (Ether 6:24). The kingship was rejected by all the sons of the brother of Jared, and by all of the sons of Jared except Orihah, who was anointed king over the young nation. During the generations to come, we see proof of the wisdom of the brother of Jared when he warned, "Surely this thing leadeth into captivity." Orihah reigned for a long period of time in righteousness and then his son, Kib reigned. Corihor, son of Kib, desiring power and gain, rebelled against his father and withdrew to the land of Nehor. He was followed by many people. Slowly, he gathered together armed forces, which he used against his father, bringing him into captivity, which brought to pass the saying of the brother of Jared. Page 7/69 770 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 In his old age, while still in captivity, Kib had a son, Shule, who became mighty in physical power and mighty in judgment. He armed those whom he had drawn away with him, with steel swords, defeated his brother Corihor, and restored the kingdom to his father, Kib. ' Deeply appreciative of the loyalty and devotion of his son, Kib bestowed upon him the kingdom. Shule executed judgment in righteousness and spread his kingdom upon all the face of the land. Because he had a compassionate heart, Shule forgave his brother, Corihor, who had repented of the many evils he had done, and gave him power in the kingdom. However, Noah, son of Corihor, rebelled against his repentant father and against King Shule. Together with his brother, Cohor, he conspired and gained control of Moron, the land of their first inheritance, thus creating a divided kingdom in the land of promise, the kingdom of Shule and the kingdom of Noah. Subsequently, Noah carried king Shule into captivity. As Noah was about to put Shule to death, the sons of Shule crept into the house of Noah by night and slew him, and broke down the door of the prison and brought out their father, and placed him back on his own throne. Cohor, son of Noah, then ruled in his father's place, thus continuing the divided kingdom. These two kingdoms, however, were united in the next generation after Cohor was beaten in battle and slain, and Nimrod, son of Cohor, relinquished his tights in the kingdom of Cohor to king Shule. During the reign of Shule, prophets who were sent from the Lord warned the people of impending destruction, except they renounce their wickedness and idolatry. But the call for repentance went unheeded by many, who mocked and reviled the prophets. Supported by King Shule, however, the prophets, in time, brought the people to a state of repentance. Peace and prosperity followed. The kingdom passed from Shule to Omer his son, who, like his father, ruled in righteousness. Jared, son of Omer, however, rebelled against his father, and, by means of flattery, won the hearts of the people, gained half the kingdom, and finally carried his father away into captivity. 'There Omer remained for halt his days. Other sons of Omer, however, restored the kingdom to their father. Jared pleaded with his brothers to spare his life. His plea was granted, but he did not repent, for "he had set his heart upon the kingdom and upon the glory of the world" (Ether 8:7). He sorrowed, not for the wrongs he had done, but because God would not permit him to continue in his sinful path. The fair daughter of Jared, seeing her father's sorrows, devised a plan to restore him to the throne. Appealing to her father, she said: Is there not an account concerning them of old, that they by their secret plans did obtain kingdoms and _ great glory? And now, therefore, let my fa- | ther send for Akish, the son of Kimnor; and behold, I am fair, and I will dance before him, and I will please him, that he will desire me to wife; wherefore, if he. Shall desire of thee that ye shall give unto him me to wife; then shall ye say: 1 will LESSON DEPARTMENT give her if ye will bring unto me the head of my father, the king (Ether 8:9-12). Part of the plan worked perfectly. Akish built up a secret combination among his friends, each one pledging by the God of heaven, by the earth, and by his own head that whoso should "vary from the assistance which Akish desired should lose his head" (Ether 8:14). Because of this secret combination, Akish and his friends were successful in overthrowing the kingdom of Omer. However, God in his mercy warned Omer in a dream that he should depart out of the land. Wherefore Omer departed out of the land with all of his household, except Jared and his family. Jared was anointed king over the people by the hand of wickedness and he gave his daughter to Akish in marriage. But his was not a peaceful reign. Like Macbeth, in securing the throne he had but taught the people to murder, which teaching returned to plague the initiator. Desirous for power, Akish now plotted against his father-inlaw, Jared, who was murdered upon his throne, giving audience to his people; and Akish reigned in his stead. Steeped in wickedness and becoming jealous of one of his sons, Akish impnsoned him and starved him to death. Nimrah, his brother, angered by this atrocity, gathered together a small number of men who fled and dwelt with Omer. New conspiracies were now developed. Younger sons of Akish plotted against him. The people were desirous for gain, and the younger sons offered them money "by which means they drew away 771 the more part of the people after them." In the long civil war which followed, only thirty persons survived, and those who had previously fled to Omer. Wherefore, Omer was restored again to the land of his inheritance. In his old age, Omer anointed his son, Emer, king over the people. Because of the righteousness of Emer and his people, the Lord removed the curse from the land. The people once more became rich and strong. The nature of the civilization established by Emer is indicated by the nature of their produce. They had all kinds of fruits, grains, cattle, oxen, sheep, swine, goats, horses, asses, elephants, cureloms, and cumoms, silks and linens, and gold, silver and precious things. Emer executed judgment in righteousness all his days. He saw peace in the land and even saw the Son of Righteousness. 'The destruction of secret combinations gave them freedom and security. By seeking first the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness, they had riches and happiness. Emer anointed his son, Coriantum, king, who ruled in righteousness over a good and happy people. Their next king, Com, also ruled in the best interests of the people; but Heth, son of Com, revived the secret combinations and slew his father. Again there came prophets into the land crying repentance unto them and warning of a great famine. But the people refused to listen and cast them out. The famine came and with it poisonous serpents in such number the flocks fled before them southward. The Lord 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 caused the serpents to hedge up the way that the people could not follow their flocks. Not until the people saw that they must perish did they repent and cry unto the Lord who sent rain upon the land. Heth, the wrongdoer, and all his household, except Shez, perished in the famine. Shez began to rebuild a broken and unhappy kingdom. As we proceed with our history of the Jaredite empire, we continue through a period of internal strife. Remembering what the Lord had done in bringing Jared and his brother across the deep, king Shez sought to build up a righteous people. His eldest son, Shez, rebelled against him, but was smitten by the hand of a robber because of his exceeding riches, which brought peace again unto his father (Ether 10:3). Immediately after the death of the king, who lived to an old age, his son Riplakish, ascended the. Throne. Lacking the integrity of his father, Riplakish did many things which were wrong in the sight of God. He had many wives and concubines; he levied heavy taxes upon the people to carry out a great building program; he constructed many prisons and forced the prisoners not only to labor for their own support, but also to refine gold and work all manner of fine workmanship for him. (Ether 10:5). After forty-two years the people rose in rebellion; and he was killed and his descendants driven out of the land. After many years of warfare, Morianton, a descendant of Riplakish established himself king over the land. He did justice unto the people helping them to build many cities and become prosperous, but * And _ they his personal conduct cut him off from the presence of the Lord. Alternating periods of righteousness and wickedness occurred during the reigns of a number of kings. Finally, in the reign of Com, many prophets predicted the destruction of the people, except they. Repent of their wickedness. Because of their wicked combinations, the people refused to hearken. Wars, contentions, famines, and pestilence ultimately brought repentance. But this period of repentance was followed by another long period of wickedness, in the midst of which prophets warned that the Lord would destroy them except they repented. 'The warning was in vain and the prophets withdrew. Subsequently, many prophets cried repentance. 'These prophets warned that except they repent, the Lord would bring forth another people to inherit the land. Moroni, in his teachings, says that these secret combinations were "most abominable and_ wicked above all, in the sight of God." Continuing his criticism, Moroni points out their tremendous destructive power to us today. Have caused the destruction of this people of whom I am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi. And whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret combinations, to get power and gain, until they shall spread over the nation, behold, they shall be destroyed; for the Lord will not suffer that the blood of his saints, which shall be shed by them, shall always cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon them and yet he avenge them not. Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these things should be shown unto you, that thereby ye may repent of your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall get LESSON DEPARTMENT above you, which are built up to get power and gain—and the work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even the sword of the justice of the Eternal God shall fall upon you, to your overthrow and destruction if ye shall suffer these things to be (Ether 8:21-23). Solicitous of our welfare today, Moroni warns us that these secret combinations are built up to "overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is built up by the devil" (Ether 8:25). He begs us 773 to avoid them and to do good continually. What a powerful message from 'The Book of Mormon to our day and time. Questions for Discussion 1. To what can we attribute the loss of liberty of the Jaredites? 2. What does Moroni say about secret combinations? 3. Point out the two contrasts in living (Ether 10:28 and 11:6, 7). 4. Apply the message of this lesson to our day and time. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 5— There Is Nothing Which Is Good Save It Comes From the Lord; and 'That Which Is Evil Cometh From the Devil" (Omni 25). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 5, 1952 Objective: To show that it is not just to hold God accountable for the wicked state of the world. HERE are two forces in the world—good and evil. All that is good, we are told, comes from God, and all that is evil, from Satan. From the beginning man has been exposed to these two influences—on the one hand that of love and mercy, emanating from God, and, on the other hand, the spirit of the adversary, which fosters hatred, envy, and greed. Many perplexing questions can be answered if we ponder this clearcut statement from the Book of Mormon. From it we understand that God is not accountable for the wickedness in the world. True, we live in an environment where both good and evil are present, to the end that we may ehoose for ourselves the one or the other, for that is a necessary part of this earth-life, but the Lord does not bring about evil, is not the author of wickedness. Some ask, ""Why does God permit war to be waged among the nations of the earth? Why does God allow all forms of wickedness and corruption to continue in the world?" God allows these things because he does not force men to live righteously. Much as he would like to see all mankind living nobly, it is not God's plan to force the human mind and will. Man brings 774 about war. Man brings about all the accumulation of wickedness that exists in our midst through exercising his free agency. Some people blame God for the sorrow and bitterness that come into their lives. It is not just to do so. Much of the suffering we bear is of our own making. When we break natural laws, we suffer the natural penalties. When we disobey the commandments of God, we suffer the inevitable consequences. Accepting the fact that every individual has been granted freedom of choice, let us strive to resist evil and cling with determination to the ways of God, for therein surely lies happiness, here and hereafter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 We hear it often said, "The world is all right, it's the people in it that make all the trouble." How true this is. 'The physical features of the world are beautiful to behold, but man brings ugliness to this lovely setting God has prepared for us, because he hearkens to the enticings of Satan. But night will ultimately triumph over wrong. Virtue will be victorious over vice. 'This fact makes suffering and the overcoming of difficulties worthwhile and glorious. Thus progression is made possible. Every individual has the power, if he so determines, to make his life conform to righteousness and reap the resultant blessings. Work ITleeting—Sewing Tue Art or MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Mending Woolens Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, February 12, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) HE best over-all rule for mending woolens is to simulate the weave of the cloth as nearly as possible in making the mend. A plain weave hand darn is the best way to mend most small tears or cuts in wool material. To do this the best thread to use is that of the cloth itself. If possible, draw a thread from the hem or side seam or inside of the pocket and use it for darning. When cloth has been torn or cut, the mend will be stronger if some reinforcement is added on the underneath side. Use either a piece of the same material or some thin fabric as nearly the same as possible. | To darn a straight tear in wools, start and finish about one-quarter inch beyond the tear. With matching thread and a fine needle, stitch back and forth across the tear on LESSON DEPARTMENT the right side. Follow the grain of the material and do not darn too tightly, leaving a small loop at each turning. The darn will show less if you extend the rows of stitching unevenly into the fabric. When you reach the tear each time, fit the edges together carefully. Weave over and under the loose yarns. Let the broken ends go to the underside. In a straight tear the darning is not recrossed. A three-cornered tear goes both lengthwise and crosswise. To darn this, work as though each side were a straight tear, beginning at one end and finish that side completely. Then begin at the other end and finish the second side, having the stitches overlap at the corners for extra strength. All stitches run at right angles at the opening. A diagonal break is usually a cut and loses its shape if not mended right away. For this type of mend always baste a reinforcement underneath. 'The important thing is to hold the break in shape while you darn. Then, with a fine needle and matching thread or yarns, work from the right side, weaving back and forth across the cut. Follow the yarn in the cloth except in twilled materials that have a diagonal pattern in the weave. The stitches may show less if you follow the diagonal pattern. On heavy reversible materials such as blankets do not use the reinforcement underneath. Rather, pin a heavy paper to the underneath side to hold the cut in shape while darning. Work one set of stitches parallel to the lengthwise thread and over these work a second set parallel to the crosswise grain. 775 In case of a worn-out place where a hole is left in the cloth, a patch will be necessary. If the cloth does not fray, use a darned-in patch. It is a fairly sturdy mend and is not so bulky and readily noticed as a hemmed patch when the goods is heavy. To make the darned-in patch trim the hole so it is either square or rectangular, having the patch exactly the same size and with matching pattern and grain of the cloth. Baste the patch to a piece of net that is larger all around than the hole. Fit the hole down over the patch, then baste to hold all together while you work. Darn each of the four sides as you would straight tears, overlapping the darns at the corners to strengthen them. To make an inset patch on lightweight wools, use the same method as for an inset patch on silks or rayons as explained in lesson No. 2 —'"Patching." You can hide the. Seam line with a rantering stitch. To do this pinch the seam line on the right side between thumb and forefinger. Stitch back and forth over the seam with very small stitches, being careful to catch only one yarn in each stitch. Pull the thread up close. When steam pressed, this patch is barely noticeable. Remember the following rules in pressing woolens: Never press direct. Use a damp cloth, the amount of moisture depending on the type of wool. Never press dry but remove the cloth while steam is still coming from the material. This brings up the nap. Press with an up and down motion, not a sliding motion. of iterature— The Literature of England Lesson 21—William Blake (1757-1827) _ Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 19, 1952 UPPOSE we were to liken the eventual emergence of the romantic spirit to an engulfing conflagration soon to arise behind the vast, darkened curve of the horizon and against the backdrop of infinity. At first we see only a slender, gentle thread of smoke. Gradually it billows deep and full into writhing black shapes splotched with flashes of inner fire. Suddenly a rumble of explosion belches forth, fanning back the smoke, and there, in the center of this clearing where the solid wall of fire is soon to be, rises a single hissing sword of flame spurting high above the fumes, and bril- -liant. This is William Blake. The romantic triumph usually is said to begin with Wordsworth, as if he were the first to burn out within himself all the smoke-producing neo-classical carbon before beginning to burn with the pure flame of revolt. Not only was William Blake first to write poetry entirely free of neo-classical artificiality and restraint, but his artistic and ideological revolt was more thorough, more intense, and more consistent than that of Wordsworth himself. Perhaps more accurately we should say that Blake never revolted against neo-classicism, since for him such false doctrines were not reality and therefore had never existed. Why, then, is Wordsworth, and not Blake, held to be the pioneer Page 776 WILLIAM BLAKE leader of romanticism? Because Wordsworth's writings were one of the strongest formative influences upon English thought and art during at least the first half of the nineteenth century, while Blake lived and died in almost total obscurity, and his poems were known even less than his engravings. Despite his artistic genius, in both his life and his works, Blake lacked a practical balance, which was a trait particularly strong and basic in Wordsworth, as it was in the English heart and mind which he addressed. Blake LESSON DEPARTMENT was hardly discovered as a poet until after Wordsworth was dead, and not until the present century did he begin to assume the status of a major English writer, although the high artistic quality of his engravings had been acknowledged for some time. Outwardly, William Blake's life hardly could have been more dull and uneventful. His existence should silence forever those who believe they would like to write but never do because "Nothing ever happens to me." Born in 1757 to a poor shopkeeper's wife, Blake was at home among the slums of London, where he grew up as a child and lived as a man. At fourteen he was apprenticed to an engraver, and throughout his life as a member of the working class he supported himself and family by engraving. At twenty-five he married Catherine Boucher who was a sensible working girl extremely devoted both to her husband and to his craft. One year later, in 1783, friends financed the publication of Poetical Sketches, which were largely ignored, as were the exhibitions of his paintings. His entire life was spent in London save for three years in the Sussex village of Felpham where he moved to be near Hayley, a wealthy man, but poor poet, who hired Blake to illustrate his life of William Cowper. At first Blake felt a spirit of release and restoration amid country life, but the literary venture was a failure, and Blake returned to London. As always, he worked until he had earned enough to ensure existence, then gave himself with complete devotion to his art of printing and engraving his drawings. In his 771 later years he wrote "The Prophetic Books," so mystical, symbolic, and obscure that their meaning is largely lost. When he died he was so poor that he was buried in a common grave which could not be identified a hundred years later when a group of admirers desired to bestow upon him the tardy and superfluous honor of a stone marker. Yet when the telling of "the facts" of Blake's life thus comes to an end, the staggering difference between mere facts and reality remains unresolved. In so wooden an account of his life we have come no nearer to sketching his unique personal force and genius than does the usual newspaper obituary. Though little more happened to him than is told above, what happened within him is delightful, but at the same time staggering to behold. In Blake's life, as in his poems, though the surface appears disarmingly plain, the power concealed deep within is sometimes almost appalling. Predominantly Blake was a mystic, who lived for his artistic works. He was gifted with a great, creative, visual imagination which made it natural for him to move in an ideal world, and enabled him to give bodily form to abstractions. Outwardly he led a quiet, regular, laborious life, but his poems and etchings show that, inwardly, his life was one of excitement and adventure. Amid much that is unfinished, and no little that is baffling to the intelligence, his volume of Poetical Sketches and Songs of Innocence and Experience contain some of the simplest and sweetest, as well as some of the most powerful short poems in the language. He 778 had a deeply righteous religious nature and an overwhelming feeling of love for God and kinship with his fellow men. His poems express the crying need for love and uni versal brotherhood for all mankind. The villain of the universe, the evil most to be dreaded, was Reason, the very force which for his contemporaries was most honored and sacred. It was because his hatred for Reason and any form of restraint was almost morbidly violent that Blake, even far more completely than Burns, refused to acknowledge any style or model or belief _ other than that which sprang spontaneously from his own genius. 'This conviction, which he obeyed even more zealously as he grew older, inspired his greatest works; it is also largely responsible for the extremities which made his later works failures. His early poetical works are his greatest. 'The symbolism within them is so simple and so powerful as to be inescapable; therefore they can be understood. How immediately do these poems allow us to share the childlike, immortal purity of his spirit! He writes of an existence and a reality only slightly removed from the presence of a smiling, charitable God who ever rejoices that the sheer happiness which he desired for his children on earth has actually come to be. These poems are as miraculous as a snowflake: simply, exquisitely formed, yet of a most delicate texture; the words falling inevitable and soothing as the coming of snow; and withal, possessing a mysterious purity of origin and a beauty which mortals often long to possess, but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 rarely do. The poems contained in his Poetical Sketches and Songs of Innocence actually seem to incarnate the "clouds of glory" which in his "Intimations of Immortality" Wordsworth talks about. In the following selections consider the simple charm and joy, the unquestioned truth of God's handiwork, and the serene oneness of the poet with that which he describes: TO THE EVENING STAR Thou fair-haired angel of the evening, Now, whilst the sun rests on the mountains, light Thy bright torch of love; thy radiant crown Put on, and smile upon our evening bed! Smile on our loves, and while thou drawest the Blue curtains of the sky, scatter thy silver dew On every flower that shuts its sweet eyes In timely sleep (text, page 112). Space forbids more of this poem, since perhaps Blake's most beautiful symbolic poem "Ihe Lamb" (page 114) must be acknowledged. The first verse asks the question, Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? And the second verse replies, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee, He is called by thy name, For He calls Himself a Lamb, He is meek, and He is mild; He became a little child. I a child, and thou a lamb, We are called by His name. Little Lamb, God bless thee! Little Lamb, God bless thee! Some might be tempted to say that such poems cannot be great because they are too simple, too easy, as if a grade-school child dashed them off. It is from this very abil- LESSON DEPARTMENT ity of re-creating in its purity the fresh, sweet quality of the childhood mind that their greatness stems. So often in all forms of great art the simple is the most rare and the most rewarding. Here we have the simplicity of greatness personified. In these Songs of Innocence Blake creates a view of the world as God would have it be, the beauty of his inner vision evoking a lyrical purity of song unheard in England since the Elizabethans. His companion book of poems, Songs of Experience, was published five years later, in 1794. On the page these poems appear equally simple and serene, yet when their surface appearance is pierced and some insight is gained into Blake's larger intent, each poem becomes a thundering hammerblow struck at some grave evil within our society. Herein we reap the bitter fruits of experience. Against our wish, and undoubtedly his own as well, he forces us to acknowledge the world of evil which also enjoys reality about us. As "The Lamb" might truly symbolize Songs of Innocence, so "The Tiger" symbolizes Songs of Experience. In each of the two works he writes a poem titled "Holy Thursday." In the first poem he describes a host of children, "their innocent faces clean," entering St. Paul's Cathedral for worship: Oh, what a multitude they seemed, these flowers of London town! Seated in companies, they sit with radiance all their own. The hum of multitudes was there, but multitudes of lambs, Thousands of little boys and girls raising their innocent hands (text, page 114). Oe 779 But under this same title in Songs of Experience, Blake laments the poverty and misery which is taken for granted in England— the England universally praised for her fruitfulness, while at the same time her suffering masses are beneath mention: Is this a holy thing to see In a rich and fruitful land— Babes reduced to misery, Fed with cold and usurious hand? (text, page 116) In selections from this book of poems, the most mature and penetrating of Blake's popularly known works, our text presents poems representative of Blake's method and intent. "The Fly" (page 116) tells of his thoughtlessly killing a fly. He then compares himself to the fly, awaiting the stroke of fate's thoughtless hand, yet, in his ignorance of the why of life and death, the poet says he is as happy as the fly, whether it is alive or dead. "The Clod and the Pebble" (page 116) allows the heaven on earth, which is unselfish service, to be vanquished by the hell on earth which is created by selfishness and spite. Note how aptly the pliable dirt, trodden under feet of all, symbolizes unselfishness, while the still common withdrawal of selfish persons within themselves, and their grinding as stone against stone in order to get ahead, finds its symbol in the hard pebble from the brook. "A Poison Tree" (page 117) seems to gloat over the malicious heights to which hatred of man for man can rise. "The Garden of Love," "A Little Boy Lost," and "The Chimney-Sweeper" (page 117) are three poems of biting irony 780, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 directed against the church which, supposedly dedicated to love, kills love; which at an oft-used "holy place" burns a child to save his soul because he innocently gives voice to his lack of understanding. "The Chimney-Sweeper" protests against those parents who make slaves of their children, and let their souls and hearts wither in neglect while the parents themselves spend their time praising God and boasting of their goodness. "London" (page 117) protests violently against the unacknowledged suffering and evil in this great city, as opposed to the commonly praised London virtues, which themselves grow out of these very evils, often denied and repudiated but never annihilated. 'The first two stanzas repeat the key words chartered, mark, and every to emphasize how ordered, intense, and monotonously widespread are the "mind-forged manacles'" which he proceeds to describe. He mentions three cries of anguish, each followed by mention of the established institution which refuses to grant existence to the evil. 'The cries of the chimney-sweep appall the blackening church (blackening probably symbolical of the evils of the church which are so great that, despite all the puny efforts of the dirty sweep, they continue to flourish). The established political regime is indifferent to the death cries of the soldier who dies to defend it. And, finally, the institution of the family and marriage is happy and self-contained within its own realm of virtues, reluctant to admit the existence of the commercialized immorality which is an undesirable but, apparently, inevitable product of the reigning social system. Probably Blake's most famous poem is "The Tiger,' (page 116) which itself symbolizes fiercely the evil which exists within the world. With each successive reading of the poem its imagery and plan penetrate deeper, just as Blake's genius looms larger. The power of poetry to condense far more than its individual words cottttin, needs no better illustration than Blake's works, whether it be a poem or an engraving. William Blake was the true artist, completely lost and happy in his creative work, industrious, sincere, and unconcerned with worldly glitter or praise. Indeed, had he not hidden himself from his world, he might well be acclaimed today, not only as a great spirit and artist, but also as the guiding spirit of the romantic movement which engulfed and pervaded England for almost a century. Note to Class Leaders: Your lesson will catch your audience more quickly if you can first show them some of Blake's most famous engravings, such as "When the Morning Stars Sang Together," "Elohim Creating Adam," "Elijah," "The Nativity," "The Wise and the Foolish Virgins," "Pity"; his illustrations: of Blair's ""The Grave," and, most rewarding of all, his illustrations for the Book of Job. Blake always considered himself an engraver and illustrator rather than primarily a poet. Suggestions for Discussion 1. Why has Wordsworth, rather than Blake, usually been considered the father of the English romantic movement? LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Discuss the relation of Blake's engraving and poetry to his religious convictions. 3. What, for Blake, was the greatest evil in the world? 781 4. Discuss the significance of Blake's two poems entitled "Holy Thursday." 5. Contrast his motive in writing "The Lamb" with the theme contained in "The — Tiger." ae) esenee— Vhe Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 11—The Struggle for Independence Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by' Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 12, pp. 152-156; chapter 20.) For Tuesday, February 26, 1952 Objective: To show that there have always been two main theories of government in the world, one based upon righteousness, the other upon force. To realize from past history the price of liberty, that thereby, we may more fully appreciate our sacred heritage. Centralization of Power T' seems to be a failing of most men that when they receive power they seek for more. The greater the power the more intense is the desire to augment it. In the medieval period, wars were frequently fought, unjustly, and on the merest pretext, by ambitious rulers seeking dominion and power. From the very earliest times monarchs claimed the right to rule by divine right. This "right" was augmented by the claim that these rulers had absolute jurisdiction and power over the lives and fortunes of their subjects. 'The thought still prevailed in medieval times, and kings endeavored to increase their power to make it absolute in every respect.- Unjust and wicked dominion was often exercised. Men were put to death through motives of jealousy, hate, envy, or for some other trivial reason. The Great Charter In the early part of the thirteenth century, John, the son of Henry II came to the throne of England. He was one of the most depraved and wicked of all England's kings. He imposed unbearable taxes upon the people, wronged the poor, and plundered all who had substance. Both the nobles and the common people stood the tyranny as long as they could, and then rose up against the wicked king. 'The barons marched against him at a_ place called Runnymede on the fifteenth day of June, 1215, and forced the king to sign the famous Great Charter (Magna Charta), which granted to the people greater political freedom than they had possessed at any previous time. By the provisions of this charter the king was denied the right to demand money when he pleased, and to imprison, and punish when 782 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 and whom he pleased. The courts were to be open to all, and justice to be dispensed without favor. 'The serf, or villein, was to have his plow free from seizure; and the church was to have protection against the interference of the king. All classes of the people benefited by the Great Charter. Later kings attempted at times to destroy or repeal the Charter, but without success. It became the foundation of English liberty and has been jealously guarded by the people against the attacks of kings who have repeatedly tried to break it. In fact, the rights of the people have been strengthened from time to time and parliamentary government has replaced the despotic government of kings. This spirit of liberty which forced concessions from King John gradually spread to other lands, and from this beginning justice, mercy, and right received an impetus which did not end. In time, the fullest freedom to the individual came as civilization continued its westward course across the waters to this blessed land of America, a land dedicated in the beginning to freedom and the worship of the true and living God, a land choice above all others, reserved for a righteous and God-fearing people. Two Theories of Government President Calvin Coolidge, in one of his addresses, has given us the following excellent thoughts: Our government rests upon religion. It is from that source that we derive our reverence for truth and justice, for equality and liberality, and for the rights of mankind. Unless the people believe in these principals they cannot believe in our government. There are only two main theories of government in the world. One rests on righteousness and the other on force. One appeals to reason, the other appeals to the sword. One is exemplified in a republic, the other is represented by a despotism. The government of a country never gets ahead of the religion of a country. There is no way by which we can substitute the authority of law for the virtue of men. Of course we can help to restrain the vicious and furnish a fair degree of security and protection by legislation and police control, but the real reform which society in these days is seeking will come as a result of our religious convictions, or they will not come at all. Peace, justice, humanity, charity—these cannot be legislated into being. They are the result of a Divine Grace. These two forms of government date back to before the foundation of this earth. As has been stated, one of these is based upon righteousness, good will, and common consent, on the part of the governed. 'The other is the government of despotism, or force. When life commenced on this earth, Lucifer immediately set about to destroy what he failed to destroy in the spirit world—the agency of man. He is the great advocate of the law of force. From that day to the present, in some parts of the earth, despotic government has prevailed. We see on the earth today among the nations the same old struggle which was begun by Satan in the heavens. Ambitious men are seeking power through the oppression of the people and their own exaltation through the law of force. Dictators have arisen in countries where it was hoped that the voice of the people might be maintained. Dictatorship has been the root of evil causing most of the LESSON DEPARTMENT suffering of mankind. The pages of history are filled with the deeds of horror and cruelty practiced in the name of justice and right by despotic tyrants. 'The fight between right and wrong, truth and error, force and persuasion, will go on until the end of time, or the end of the present world. During the past seven centuries and more, the struggle for religious and political freedom has been relentlessly waged. Before that time despotism held sway in the greater part of the world. We have presented some of the history dealing with those unhappy times, when men struggled and fought for freedom. We have related how the shackles of cruel despotism were broken, that men might live and move and have a being, where before they existed merely as pawns in the hands of tyrants. This battle is not over. Satan is not dead, neither is he idle. Today he rages in the hearts of men, leading the vast majority of them astray. 'The fight against his rule of force and evil will go on, but it will have a glorious end, for there can be but one outcome to this struggle, the eventual triumph of the right. Liberty Consecrated by Martyrdom Latter-day Saints have been taught that the Lord "established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men" whom he raised up for this very purpose. Moreover, he has said that the land was redeemed by the shedding of blood. Despotism can neither be dethroned nor maintained without the shedding of blood, for tyranny is built upon bloodshed and carnage. 783 Let American citizens not forget that their form of government is still on trial. A republic may become just as despotic as any other form of government, and may lose its power as a republic, if the people sink into wickedness and forget their God. Neither should citizens of the United States forget that the liberty which has come to them is from the seed which was sown by thousands of patriotic martyrs. They laid down their lives in the cause of liberty. Humbly and faithfully Should we cherish the heritage which they bequeathed to us. Sacredly and honorably should we hold this heritage in our keeping and pass it on to our children unsullied and undefiled. Other lands, as well as the United States, have been redeemed by the shedding of blood. The Netherlands fought the fight of the just in a cause which seemed to be hopeless because of the tremendous odds arrayed against them. But the God of Israel heard their cries. Under the splendid leadership of William, Prince of Orange, who has been called the George Washington of the Netherlands, the people of that country waged a long and_ remarkable _ struggle against the greatest odds, for religious and political freedom. The full extent of the suffering of these people, the world will never know. In Spain, Germany, England, and Scandinavia, people fought and bled that freedom might come forth upon the earth. The people of these countries, who sacrificed their lives and worked for political freedom, were all sprinkled with the blood 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 of Israel. 'This accounts in part for their stand against religious tyranny and political despotism. It is from these countries that the greatest numbers have been gathered out by the preaching of the gospel. By the shedding of blood the way was prepared for them. Our own nation was founded on the principle that all men are created equal in their right to worship God and have the privilege of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. In every land where freedom prevails these principles should be carefully and faithfully cherished. No doctrine or theory should be received which tends to take away from the individual these rights. Let us conclude by quoting President Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg speech, the truth of which should flow in the life-blood of every mortal soul. Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are met on a great battlefield of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. But, in a larger sense we can-. Not dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what we say here; but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that the dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Comment on these words of President George Albert Smith: 'Knowing that the Lord prepared this land that it might be. A haven of liberty for those who dwell here, and understanding that he desires a continuation of those conditions that the builders of this republic fought for, we who are members of this Church ought, in every possible way, to assist in perpetuating that liberty which means so much for the children of men" (Improvement Era, July 1949, page 429). 2. What two theories of government are emphasized in the address by President Coolidge? Show that these are the same two theories proposed at the council in heaven. IT lusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 13—Music Appreciation Programs for Relief Society and the Home Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To appreciate and use music more widely and significantly in Relief Society and in the home. LESSON DEPARTMENT Music Appreciation Programs for Relief Society a. It was suggested in Lesson g (July Magazine, 1951) that the music program for the year be planned early in the season. It is now further suggested that a short music appreciation program be prepared and given when occasion permits. 'These programs should be interesting and informative. —. B. The following subjects, or similar ones, might be used for this purpose: 1. Stories of Latter-day Saint hymns 2. Stories of other Christian hymns Examples: "Abide With Me" "Lead Kindly Light" (These two numbers are included with the L. D. S. Hymns.) 3. Biographies of hymn composers Joseph J. Daynes Ebenezer Beesley | Adam Craik Smyth (pronounced Smith) George Careless Evan Stephens Charles Wesley, Martin Luther, etc. (Sing a verse or two of representative hymns or songs that can be sung from memory. ) 4. Biographies of hymn poets, such as: Eliza R. Snow Parley P. Pratt Orson F'. Whitney Emmeline B. Wells, or others. (Read from their poetical works. ) 5. History of the great Tabernacle Organ 6. Scriptural references to music (Bible, Doctrine and Covenants) 7. The value of music in the home Information concerning the first five subjects can be found in: Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper, Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. Famous Hymns of the World, by Allan Sutherland, Frederick A. Stokes Co., New York. Other books and periodicals containing biographies of Church writers and musicians might be used. Most libraries have 785 books and articles, such as, Music in the Home, published by the Victor Company, _ Camden, New Jersey. Discovering and Encouraging Musical Talent in the Home and Participating in Musical Organizations a. Music in the home brings about family activity. The poet Longfellow wrote: "Show me the home wherein music dwells, and I shall show you a happy, peaceful, and contented home." "Purchase some kind of instrument for the home," said Oliver Wendell Holmes, "and see that its beneficent harmonies are often heard. Let music be as much a part of a day's routine as eating or reading or walking." (b) Singing can be participated in, whether or not there is a musical instrument in the home; and stories or talks about musicians and music subjects can also be enjoyed. However, where there is a musical instrument, a piano, cabinet organ, violin, etc., it helps very much to promote and stimulate an interest in music among members of the family. (c) If there is a radio in the home it can be used to good advantage in bringing the best of musical programs into the family group. (d) A record player, with well-chosen records, is another way of promoting and teaching appreciation of music. (e) These mechanical instruments should be used as supplementary aids in bringing music into the home and should not replace the musical performances of members of the family. In other words, we should, as much as possible, produce the musical numbers from the family group, even though they may not be performed so perfectly as they are on the record. (f) Along with our listening to music we should constantly realize that the preatest joy and lasting satisfaction comes to the doers, those who perform the music. (g) Members of a family should be encouraged to develop and use their musical talents; such talents can be found, to some degree, in most families. "The normal mind (which is the average mind) is musical, and the normal body 786 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 is the instrument for adequate expression of music...." Dr. Emil Seashore, The Psychology of Music). ° (h) Family members should participate in musical organizations when possible. Occasions in Which Music Can Be Used in the Home (a) A music evening of singing, playing, and listening together. (b) Musical performances and talks in the Family Hour. (c) Music Club programs. Suggested Subjects for Music Appreciation in the Home (a) Folk songs (b) Folk dances (c) History and evolution of music (d) Oratorios 1. Origin and description, such as "The Messiah," by Handel, and "Elijah," by Mendelssohn 2. Read from texts 3. Discuss the composers 4. Play or sing selections (e) Operas, as "Samson and Delilah," by Saint Saens, "La Boheme," by Puccini 1. Beginnings 2. Stories 3. Composers 4. Selections (performed, or from records) (f) Lives of great singers, as Caruso, Schumann-Heink, Jennie Lind, Patti, or others. (g) Old songs we love to sing, such as, "Juanita," "Love's Old Sweet Song," CEC. (h) Musical instruments, such as: organ, harp, flute, violin, piano. 1, Origin 2. Evolution 3. Characteristics 4 Uses (i) Lullabies and songs for children to sing (j) Guessing games for children, with pictures of instruments, and perhaps, records to demonstrate them Most of the suggestions for music appreciation in the home can be found in What We Hear in Music, by Anne Shaw Faulkner, Victor Company, Camden, New Jersey. <>. She Lost Words Dorothy J. Roberts Somewhere I have lost the sweet refrain Of words we murmured on the air of dusk, So quietly their airy chords have lain Like treasured raiment folded long in musk. Wound within the year's pale cloth of mist Your voice, in its lavender, eludes my mind, It is beyond the reach of the brain to list Those tender syllables which once it twined. Your call is muted on the cherry slope, Though moon-dust sprays as then the early night. Only the wells of longing leap, and hope Still probes the shadows for a lane of light. No sound... Only firelight starred within your eyes And strength your fingers closed around my own Keep silent tryst with me while memory cries Down autumn avenues your words have flown. G row Old Splendidly Evelyn Wooster Viner [pease a recent trip I stopped to see an old friend who had celebrated his ninetieth birthday some months earlier. His wife had passed away since we last met, so it was surprising to find him ensconced in a bright, new home. When I voiced amazement he told me how it happened. "I never intended to sell the old place," he said, "'but it was pretty lonely after my wife was gone. My son was building a new home and he wanted me to live with them. He built me a room—built it exactly as I wanted it. So I sold out and went there. I stayed a year. One day I said to myself, this is no life for me. Every morning they all went to work, and I was alone with nothing to do but read the paper. So I came back here and built this house." "You built it!" I exclaimed. "Yes, I did most of the work," he said with satisfaction. 'The outside doesn't look like much yet, but by next year I'll have it fixed." He made the statement with as much certainty as one might have expected of a young man just starting out. An old lady whom I often visited was bedfast between the ages of eighty-seven and ninety-five. Unable to be about the active duties of the household, she occupied her time making rugs, quilts, table mats, and doilies. She also did hand sewing on the family clothing. She studicd the scriptures a great deal and was informed upon the questions of the day. It was not strange that at ninety-five her mind was as clear as that of any young person. Two sisters, one a frail little person of ninety, and the other blind at eighty-six, were great students of Shakespeare. 'They also took a keen interest in national and international affairs. I never tried to match wits with either of them, for I should certainly have been the loser if I had done so. With observation, it becomes obvious that we retain our mental capabilities better if we keep our minds busy with something worthwhile. 'There is no reason why age should make us indifferent—without aspiration, and living only in the past. We can as easily live rich, forward-looking lives. Interest and activity are not for the young alone. They are for all ages. Let us grow old splendidly. > Mount Hood Beatrice K. Ekman Up from the forest-fringe at timberline, Above near hills where firs stand, row on row, A glazed, white apron covers the steep incline To Mount Hood's sloping shoulders, heaped with snow. Along the sky's blue mm, long cloud-bars float; Wreaths of smoke-fog drift through the hillside trees, A ruff of fog clings to the mountain's throat, And soft wool clouds are draped across her knees. Page 787 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Hour of Decision (Continued from page 741) It was a moment of truth, of revelation, and Adele held her breath. Jonathan's face was inscrutable, but his attention was fully caught. Lois was watching him with mingled hope and fear.' Lafe's voice changed and he went on, as if to bolster himself with words. "That's the trouble with the Church, though. They ask too much of their members. You take a young fellow like I was then, trying to get a start in a profession, wanting to get married, and ask him to pay his own way on a mission— well " He turned fully to Jonathan, who was studying him. "What do you say, young fellow? Too much to ask, don't you think?" "No," said Jonathan shortly. "T do not." Later, when the children had gone on their respective ways, the younger ones to bed and the older ones on their dates, and the Higginses were preparing to leave after an interesting evening, Lafe gave Adele a penetrating look and said: "I hope I gave a satisfactory performance as exhibit A, and that the young scamp will not give you any more trouble, but will accept that mission call." Adele caught her breath and felt the red creeping up over her face. "Lafe, how could you? Who told you...?" Lafe laughed. "It was there— on all of your faces." Adele reached her hand to Lafe. "No wonder you have gone so far te EU NNN CHRISTMAS CANTATAS YUYLINLIY UU NULL uw io) i oe aNtrgattngattegantegnttngattagettngnttngntengattagatte attngnttegtt for Relief Society Choruses a Carols of Christmas—Lorenz _..80 | Christmas Messiah—Handel.80 a Dawn of Christmas—Nolte.80 _= Music of Bethlehem—Holton.80 _ Prepare Him Room—Hadler.80 -_ Song of the Holy Night (Two Part)—Wilson__ -..80 -_ Wondrous Story—Kountz._.60 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. CJ On Approval [] Charge OC) Money Enclosed Da FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SQUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY §, UTAH HOUR OF DECISION in your profession and gained so many honors." "Honors can be empty, Adele. You can't go far enough to get away once you've been a really good Latter-day Saint." "Why don't you come with us to Sunday School in the morning?" Adele spoke impulsively. "It would seem like old times," said Lafe, putting an arm across his wife's shoulders, "but it rests with her. What do you say, Thelma? Shall we go to Sunday School?" "T think we had better," 'Thelma answered, the fear going out of her eyes. "I'm curious to see a superintendent." * OK OK XK "VWOU'RE quite a woman," said Tom in affectionate admiration when they had gone. "I hope Jonathan didn't catch on that you were trying to manage him." "If it was that apparent to Lafe," Adele began, and then couldn't go on for the fear that clamped her heart. Jonathan was on the telephone early the next morning as she and Tom came down the stairs. "Mr. Stallings?" he was saying, and 'T'om's hand gripped hers, "I'm sorry, Sir, but I can't take that job tomorrow. My bishop has asked me to go on a mission." They watched his face light up as he listened and heard his mumbled thanks, before he cradled the receiver. "Mr. Stallings says I'm to come to work for him until my call comes 789 L. D. S. MOTHERS ARE UNANIMOUS IN THEIR SINCERE APPRECIATION FOR THESE TWO OUTSTANDING BOOKS BOOK OF MORMON STORIES For Young Latter-day Saints 3.00 Told in simple, easy style, the stories of the Book of Mormon are told to the younger L. D. S. Reader and student in the spirit of the Book of Mormon itself. BIBLE STORIES For Young Latter-day Saints 3.00 Inspirational, rich, your child will love these stirring stories from the Bible, both old and new testaments, beautifully and simply writin especially for young L. D. S. Church memers. NOW! AT YOUR BOOKSTORE OR ORDER DIRECT FROM BOOKCRAFT 1186 South Main SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Emma Marr Petersen | Emma Marr Petersen through," he told them. "Sometimes it takes two or three months. I didn't know he was a stake president. And then he'll give me leave of absence for my mission, and a job when I come back." "And Lois?" questioned Adele. "That was a close call for Lois and me—for me, all around, but Lois isn't a designing female like you. She didn't go out and drag in horrible examples to convince me. She said she wanted me to make up my own mind without her influence, but I think I know how She felt. But thanks, Mom, anyway,' said Jonathan, coming to put his arms about her, "thanks for hanging onto me until I really became of age." 790 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1951 Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent fer reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET Gd 4-2581 Salt Lake City. Utah MUSIC for Relief Society Singing Mothers By the Waters of Babylon Come Unto Him Like As a Hart Desireth If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments O Lord Most Merciful Voice in the Wilderness If With All Your Hearts Praise Ye the Father Peace I Leave With You Invocation Write for favorite selections GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Memory Kate Richards They say That time erases Absent faces From the memory Of the heart; That always Years will dry The tears, Cleanse. The memory's Bitter part. There must Be some; Perhaps but one Lone place Where nature slips; For still At night I waken with Your name Upon my lips. Desert Artist Ida Isaacson Under Arizona's desert sky, With scarce save God to hear her sigh, She works upon her Navajo And weaves a tale of long ago. Before her loom, erect and proud, Aloof as over-hanging cloud, She works upon her Navajo And weaves this tale of long ago. The day is long, the air is dry, Just picot blue in cloud-choked 'sky To ease the pressure of her view While working on this pattern true, This gray and white and red design That she must keep in perfect line. Shere Js No Sound LeRoy Burke Meagher I am lonely. When autumn's burning Is a mound of ash White upon the hill; No sound or slash Of wings in colored symphony; In the leafless vine No cricket shrill; But this is mine— The certainty Of the slow, sure turning Of a crocus. Reminder Maryhale Woolsey I've missed small Babsie— That lovable bright elf Who seemed a sweeter, daintier Replica of myself Babs in rosebud pinafore Stained with mud-pie batter Angel-sweet in ruffled nightie, Imp-full of bedtime chatter! Barbara, eighteen, and slim and tall, Is princess-lovely, quiet, woman-wise; How startling, now and then, to meet a smile Irom roguish Babsie, out of Barbara's eye. Paeans Pansye H. Powell How good is our life, just for the living, As weeping or smiling we go. Forever advancing, the strong heart Hears life in the warm, pulsing flow Of music, though wordless, yet singing Great songs of the heart that employ Oboe and trumpet and tuba In paeans of courage and joy! 791 this famous family treat! CHOCOLATES of course, years and yeors of happiness BUY FROM YOUR DEALER A UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. MESSAGE Srom lear and Sar We are all proud of our splendid Relief Society Magazine. It affords all who read it entertaining, instructive, and uplifting material. What more could one ask? I am wondering if we appreciate and enjoy the exceptionally fine covers on all the Magazines, or do some of us pass them by unnoticed? Every issue has a photograph which is a work of art. Let us all enjoy these pictures along with the other good things in our superior Magazine. —Luella N. Adams Salt Lake City, Utah The poem "All Lowly Flowers' by Alice Morrey Bailey (page 624, September 1951) is truly a beautiful thing. Anyone who can create that much loveliness from the things most despised is a poet indeed. —Agnes Just Reid Firth, Idaho I have been a subscriber to the Magazine for many, many years, and enjoy read ing it from cover to cover each month. —Elizabeth H. Welker Salt Lake City, Utah I look forward so much to receiving the Magazine, and the old copies which a sister loaned to me have been most enjoyable, and my landlady (who is not a member of our Church) reads them, too, and who knows but these Magazines may be the turning point and she may embrace this Church. —Mrs. Janet Piper Palmerston North, New Zealand I am eighty-five years old, and well and healthy. I am Magazine agent and have secured the highest per cent in the stake every year but one for eight years. I have been a visiting teacher ever since I was nineteen years old, have been president of the Y. W. M. LA. Several years and secretary and president of the ward Relief Society. I don't know how much longer the Lord is going to keep me here. —Alice O. Billings, Vernal, Utah Page 792 I surely enjoyed the September Relief Society Magazine, especially Iris W. Schow's poem "Eternal Enchantment" (page 585) and Alice Morrey Bailey's "All Lowly Flowers" (page 624). The editorial on children's literature ("What Shall We Read to Children?'') is very timely. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho It is with great interest that I have read the article "Cathedral Valley" in the September Kelief Society Magazine (page 590) by Winifred N. Jones. We are interested in planning a visit to that place in the very near future. —RMrs. Leone P. Bate, Idaho Falls, Idaho One night after Church I picked up one of these cherished Magazines, and as I looked through it, this little poem seemed to run through my mind, so I am sending it in. I would like you to know how much each Magazine means to me. A Welcome Guest I looked within its golden sheets, Each one so full of truth That could charm one old in years Or girls in beauteous youth; It told about the Woman's Sphere, A mother's silent prayer A lesson from the Bible dear, A story told with care. It was my guide, my trusted dream, My beloved. Relief Society Magazine. —Ethel Jones, Bingham Canyon, Utah We subscribe to all the magazines put out by the Church, so we have neither the time nor the inclination to read that which does us no good. I am proud to be able to offer my Relief Society Magazine to others to read, as it will please even the most critical and refined taste. I take no chances of being ashamed of my reading habits: Thank you for such a superb Magazine. —Mrs. Alta Dew Durango, Colorado HESE great texts and visual aids— For your Relief Society Courses of Study 1951-1952 THEOLOGY: THE BOOK OF MORMON Missionary edition $1.00 61.25 by mail Library edition _ 0 2.00 Large type edition $3.00 THE GEORGE REYNOLDS BOOK OF MORMON CHART. A graphic, chronological chart of all Book of Mormon events, synchronized with events of ancient history of Greece, Rome—Assyria, Persia—; featuring each historian, the major peoples: Nephites, Lamanites, Mulekites, Gadianton Robbers; complete legend, giving the Book of Mormon in headlines. 16" x 74" in 5 colors. Published originally in 1898 by George Reynolds; eissued in 1931 and 1951. $3.00 The best Book of Mormon visual aid yet produced. SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE PROGRESS OF MAN $2.50 by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith LITERATURE: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND Volume 2... Oe oe — vecceeeeee--99000* By mail. Ecenceees MO *These are the correct prices. The old prices were quoted in July All prices are subject to ities without notice Deseret Book Come SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 44 East South Temple Street Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Founded to select Desk Dictionary _ BOOKS for Yes, you are invited to accept any three of the books shown here for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. And distribute books which are worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without being objectionable in any 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 U. S. POSTAGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WITH MEMBERSHIP only way, the Family Reading Club is just what you have been looking for! Read, below, how the Club brings you the finest new books at bargain prices. Then mail the coupon to join, and get your three books without delay! CREATIVE HOME DECORATING By The Rockows Complete step-by-step methods for working real wonders in your home. 500 illustrations, 41 full-color ''demonstration rooms'', charts, etc. Publisher's edition, $4.95. APRIL SNOW By Lillian Budd The story of a mother's courageous struggle to raise her children to be kind, intelligent and loving—without the help of her cruel and_ selfish husband! Publisher's edition, $3.00. Thorndike-Barnhart DESK DICTIONARY A really comprehensive book, Contains 80,000 entries, 700 illustrations, 900 pages. Newly written, modern, accurate. Recently featured in Life. Publisher's edition, $2.75. AMERICA COOKS By The Browns Contains over 1600 recipes—the finest of each of the 48 states—from mouth-watering old-fashioned favorites to modern taste delights. Should be in every kitchen. FARM WANTED By Helen Train Hilles Fifteen years ago, Mrs. Hilles dreaded the quiet of country life. This is the delightful story of how she became a farmer in spite of herself—and loved the experience! Pub. Ed., $3.00. MUSIC LOVERS' ENCYCLOPEDIA Edited by Deems Taylor Lays the foundation of a musical education! Contains summaries of 90 operas, a dictionary of 7,000 terms, 8,500 short biographies, 900 pages. A complete source book! WHY THE FAMILY READING CLUB MAIL COUPON NOW! CHECK THE THREE BOOKS YOU WANT WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE FAMILY READING CLUB Family Reading Club, Dept. 11-RSM Mineola, N. Y. Please send me the three vooks cuecked beiuw as sly two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. L_] Creative Home [| America Cooks Decorating {_} Farm Wanted [_) April Snow [_] Thorndike-Barnhart [] Music Lovers' Encyclopedia Desk Dictionary Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection.. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book offered—at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. Age, if Under 21 Offer good only in the U. MAKES THIS SENSATIONAL OFFER! HERE is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. Each month our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically—a book which every member of your family can read. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. And you may accept as few as four books each year to retain your membership. FREE BONUS BOOKS. The Club distributes a "'Bonus"' Book free for each four selections you take, and you can build up a fine library this way at no extra expense. The purchase of Club books for only $1.89 each—instead of the publishers' prices of $2.50 to $4.00—saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save up to 50%. SEND NO MONEY JUST MAIL COUPON. If you believe in a book club which will appeal to your finest instincts, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club MAIL COUPON NOW! CHECK THE THREE BOOKS YOU WANT WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE FAMILY READING CLUB Family Reading Club, Dept. 11-RSM Mineola, N. Y. Please send me the three vooks cuecked beiuw as sly two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. L_] Creative Home [| America Cooks Decorating {_} Farm Wanted [_) April Snow [_] Thorndike-Barnhart [] Music Lovers' Encyclopedia Desk Dictionary Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection.. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book offered—at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. Age, if Under 21 Offer good only in the U. MAKES THIS SENSATIONAL OFFER! HERE is no charge for membership in the Family Reading Club beyond the cost of the books themselves. Each month our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically—a book which every member of your family can read. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. And you may accept as few as four books each year to retain your membership. FREE BONUS BOOKS. The Club distributes a "'Bonus"' Book free for each four selections you take, and you can build up a fine library this way at no extra expense. The purchase of Club books for only $1.89 each—instead of the publishers' prices of $2.50 to $4.00—saves you 25% to 35% of your book dollars. And when the value of the free Bonus Books is figured in, you actually save up to 50%. SEND NO MONEY JUST MAIL COUPON. If you believe in a book club which will appeal to your finest instincts, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club by sending you ANY THREE of the wonderful books described here—two as your FREE Membership Gift and one as your first Club selection—for only $1.89! Send no money, just mail the coupon today! FAMILY READING CLUB — MINEOLA, N. Y
