THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 SEPTEMBER 1951 No. 9

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

The Constitution and the United Nations Charter: II. Rights Guaranteed by the Constitution by Albert E. Bowen 580
Cathedral Valley by Winifred N. Jones 590

FICTION

Broken Keys by Blanche Sutherland 586
Powder Puffs by Sylvia Pezolt 592
Through This Door — Chapter 2 by Margery S. Stewart 600

GENERAL FEATURES

Sixty Years Ago 594
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 595
Editorial: What Shall We Read to Children? by Vesta P. Crawford 596
Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference; Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons; "Relief Society Handbook" Available 598
Annual Report — 1950 by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 606
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 619
From Near and Far 648

FEATURE FOR THE HOME

How to Make Continuous Bias by Eva Ricks 625

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Theology: The Migration by Leland H. Monson 626
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Feast Upon the Words of Christ" by Leone O. Jacobs 629
Work Meeting — Sewing: Strengthening Ready-Mades by Jean Ridges Jennings 630
A Good Recipe for Work Meeting Luncheons by Christine Eaton 638
Literature: Two Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper by Briant S. Jacobs 632
Music: Increased Proficiency in Conducting and Hymn Singing by Florence J. Madsen 636

POETRY

Desert Balm — Frontispiece by Beatrice K. Ekman 579
My Wish by Gene Romolo 585
Eternal Enchantment by Iris W. Schow 585
Goodbye Little Boy by Angelyn W. Wadley 597
Boys in September by Alberta H. Christensen 599
From Some Far Yesterday by Josephine J. Harvey 605
Healing by Mabel Jones Gabbott 605
All Lowly Flowers by Alice Morrey Bailey 624
Lying in the Sun by Christie Lund Coles 638
Summer Turning by Ing Smith 647

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

DOWNSTAIRS CMI PRINCESS PEGGY SHOP Downstairs Store "N sales tax. Please add 2% Utahns apron on the same > AK EN RR LS ee Tre each addi ti for each apron, Send 12c postage onal (16-18); large (20- 40). 3c for (12-14); medium grass green. Small two deep pockets. Red e Poppy azure blue, "catch all' attractive! Protect Has Versatile, ive, blouse, smock or hostess apron. Pop-On! Princess Peggy Use as a Just pop i n to this REG. U. S. PAT. OFF Josef Muench "BESIDE THE STILL WATERS," NAVAJO SPRINGS, ARIZONA Vermilion Cliffs in the Background THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1951 (Desert (Balm Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Tranquil still is the desert's face, Far from the tumult and clamor of men; A day and a night in its boundless space Bring peace to a troubled heart again. Across the sparkling water holes A breeze keeps little waves at play, While the low, scrub sagebrush gently rolls In an undulating stretch of gray. Smooth patches of white alkali Are etched by desert creatures' feet And the noonday sun in a cloudless sky Cushions the air with visible heat. At night wild ducks drop down to rest _ On the quiet pools... Lone stars appear; One bright star tows the new moon west... 'The quiet of infinite peace is here. The Cover: Yellowstone Lake, Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen The Constitution and the United Nations Charter II. Rights Guaranteed by the Constitution Albert R. Bowen | N the first of this series of four articles is a very brief sketch or outline of some of the events which form the background of constitutional liberty as we know it under our own American Constitution.. In that article an attempt was made to point out the consequences which would inevitably follow if, by lack of vigilance or by unworthiness, our presently enjoyed freedom and liberty should be lost. In the hope of making a contribution which will, in some small degree, enhance the understanding of our Constitution of those who read this article and make for a keener appreciation thereof, and a greater devotion to the cause of constitutional liberty, it is now proposed to briefly discuss the Constitution itself. No proper understanding of the value of our Constitution as the guardian and bulwark of our liberties can be realized without some knowledge, at least, of the liberties which the Constitution guarantees, and how the Constitution operates to safeguard those liberties. It is, of course, impossible in a_ brief article such as this to do more than generalize on this great subject. However, even a brief reminder may have some value. What is the Constitution? Chief Justice John Marshall, the second Chief Justice of the United States, Page 580 A Perry Picture CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN MARSHALL Under his direction (1801-1835) the Supreme Court was raised to power and majesty as the guardian and the interpreter of the Constitution. Once stated that the Constitution is "the supreme law of the land." Through the Constitution the three co-ordinate branches of our Government came into being, namely, the executive, the legislative, and the judicial. 'The Constitution defines the powers of each branch of the Government. The Government of the United States is a government of delegated and limited powers. Delegated by whom? By the peo- THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER ple themselves. It is only within the scope of those delegated powers that the Government has any power to act or function or to restrain or coerce the acts and lives of its individual citizens.. There is a very good reason why our Government is one of delegated and limited powers. 'lhe framers of the Constitution, as has already been pointed out, were keen, astute men who understood the true principles of government, men who were convinced that "governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." 'These men set out to make sure that the Government which they were creating would be one whose powers were granted by the people, which powers should be specifically defined and limited, and which could, if necessary, be taken away by the people who granted them. HESE were the men who, at great sacrifice, had just completed a successful struggle against arbitrary government. 'They were the men who knew the history which led up to the framing of Magna Charta, and that in their native England a struggle had gone on for centuries against arbitrary and despotic rulers. 'Thus we see that one of the fundamental cornerstones of liberty was provided for, and its preservation and continuity safeguarded by placing limitations upon the power of government. It was likewise made defnite that the sovereignty of the people should always be recognized. Before the writing of our Constitu- 581 tion there had never been such a great exposition of the place of government in a free society governed by law. It may also be safely added that such an exposition has never been written since that time. Next, the Constitution separates and divides the functions of government. As has been stated, the fathers of our Government divided its functions into three parts: the executive to enforce and carry out the laws, the legislative to make or enact the laws, and the judiciary to interpret the laws enacted. 'The latter branch also has the power and duty to pass upon the actions of the executive and the laws enacted by the legislative, to see to it that neither the laws enacted by the legislative nor the action of the executive in executing those laws shall violate the "supreme law of the land'— the Constitution itself. 'Thus it can be seen that the Constitution provides for another safeguard to liberty by providing that all functions of government shall not be exercised by a single branch of government, answerable only to itself and governed solely by its own conscience. In no other constitutional system save the American may courts declare the laws of the legislative branch to be invalid. Even under the great English system the courts are powerless to affect by decision the enactments of Parliament. 'The sole function of the judicial branch under such a system is to interpret the laws enacted; never to declare them invalid. Under such a system there is no safeguard from arbitrary or oppressive laws or their arbitrary or oppressive enforcement, 582 save by the election of new representatives. Under the American system, on the other hand, such calamities may be prevented at their very inception. The third great safeguard to individual and personal liberty guaranteed by the Constitution is the socalled Bill of Rights. Ten in number, they were adopted after the ratification of the Constitution. They are patterned on what has come to be known as the Virginia Bill of Rights, and ratification of the Constitution itself was only assured upon the promise that these declarations of individual rights would likewise be adopted. HY were the people so insistent upon the adoption of these declarations? It was because ' they, in a very intimate and personal way, represented the very thing for which the colonists had just fought the Revolutionary War. Turn to the Declaration of Independence and see the list of grievances which are there listed against King George III and his officers, and then compare those statements with the first ten amendments to the Constitution and you will see the reason why the people of this country were going to take no chances in conferring power upon a government unless certain guarantees, personal to the people, were first recognized. The following constitutes a list of the grievances against the British Crown which appear in the Declaration of Independence, and they appear in this language: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 He has refused his assent to laws the most wholesome and necessary for the - public good. He has forbidden his governors to pass laws of immediate and pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his assent should be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them. He has refused to pass other laws for the accommodation of large districts of people, unless those people would tre-. Linquish the right of representation in the legislature—a right inestimable to them, and formidable to tyrants only. He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public records, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures. He has dissolved representative houses repeatedly, for opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.. He has refused, for a long time after such dissolutions, to cause others to be elected; whereby the legislative powers, incapable of annihilation, have returned to the people at large, for their exercise; the state remaining, in the meantime, exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without, and convulsions withime He has obstructed the administration of justice, by refusing his assent to laws for establishing judiciary powers. He has made judges dependent on his will alone, for the tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.. He has erected a multitude of new offices, and sent hither swarms of officers to harass our people and eat out their substance. He has kept among us, in times of peace, standing armies, without the consent of our legislature. He has affected to render the military independent of, and superior to, the civil power. THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER 583 He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his assent to their acts of pretended legislation. For imposing taxes on us without our consent; For depriving us, in many cases, of the benefits of trial by jury; For transporting us beyond seas, to be tried for pretended offenses; For abolishing the free system of English laws in a neighboring province, establishing therein an arbitrary government, and enlarging its boundaries, so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument for introducing the same absolute' tule into these colonies; For taking away our charters, abolishing our most valuable laws, and altering fundamentally the forms of our governments; For suspending our own legislatures, and declaring themselves invested with power to legislate for us in all cases whatS@ever HESE and other grievances were the ones which the colonists had against the King of England, and in the writing of the first ten amendments to the Constitution a guarantee of protection against similar abuses was provided for. This Bill of Rights is a document which deserves verbatim quotation: AMENDMENT I Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Courtesy, The Library of Congress ADOPTION OF THE CONSTITUTION Photograph of the painting by J. B. Stearns 584 AMENDMENT II A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the tight of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed. AMENDMENT III No Soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. AMENDMENT IV" The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. AMENDMENT V No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War, or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offense to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property: be taken for public use, without just compensation. AMENDMENT VI In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for this defence, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 AMENDMENT VII In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law. AMENDMENT VIII Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. AMENDMENT IX The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. AMENDMENT X The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. OTE how the fundamental tights which the _ colonists fought to attain and which they set forth and declared as the rights they were determined to enjoy are reflected in the language of the Bill of Rights. Are not the foregoing rights the very essence of what is required to enable a man to hold up his head in dignity and to free his spirit to pursue the loftiest goals of human progress? In such a climate, free of coercion, without fear of unjust and arbitrary interference with his legitimate aspirations, and with protection from the acts of unscrupulous men who would rob him of the fruits of his honest toil, men can be happy and secure in their lives and attain realization of the divine purpose that "man is that he might have joy." | THE CONSTITUTION AND THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER 585 The claim that the American constitutional system has contributed to our well-being needs no proof beyond the facts of the history of America since the Revolutionary War. It is generally accepted as a fact that no nation has ever enjoyed such wealth and prosperity as ours, nor has there ever existed a society in which individuals have enjoyed the opportunity of improving their material, social, or spiritual wellbeing on such a great scale as in America. This has been true, not because America has had more natural wealth and resources than many other nations, because there are nations which have even greater abundance of natural treasure than our country possesses. 'The true cause of our great well-being lies directly in the free system under which we live. (To be continued) > <>—e- (Dreamers Gene Romolo Upon the summit of a wind-swept hill, A man and woman stood, arm linked in arm, Both silent in their visioning until They grasped the largess of ineffable charm That new horizons hold. North, south, east, west, Naught but a challenge met their questing eyes, From a great lake-shore's salt-encrusted breast To where far, rock-ridged heights reached toward the skies;? But they had dreams and faith that conquers fear, And will to work in kinship with the land; And they had hope that effort, year by year, Would make the soil yield them their need's demand. Those dreamers left the world a heritage Emblazoned on the West's historic page. Ternal Enchantment Iris W. Schow Whose breath has ruffled the lake? Whose laughter has startled the loon? Whose are the little feet that dance On the sands by the pearl lagoon? Whose are the hands that gather The stars and weave them to wear? Whose but those of the young of heart With the amaranth fresh in her hair! For Keeps Blanche Sutherland AURIE Nichols, small and L, slender, with auburn hair and eyes, and feeling every one of her thirty years, climbed into the seat beside David. Well, one era of her life was closing, another beginning, she supposed. Only she felt too tired, too numb to care.. She glanced at David. 'The angle of his jaw looked worried, the strong jut of his chin, anxious. "T'm more sorry than I can tell, Miss Nichols. I'd have liked so much for you to stay on. Bobby loves you so." Laurie's lips trembled, but she tried to speak lightly. "Bobby will soon forget. 'That is one advantage of being four years old, Mr. Kirby." David pushed the key in slowly, turned it, and waited for the engine's response. "Well, feel free to come see him at any time. He'll be so glad." "Oh, no," Laurie interrupted. "T'm sure a clean break will prove better." She smiled. "No opening of old wounds, you know." "Well, perhaps," David grudged as the car jerked and picked up speed. "At any rate, do rest a bit. Your work must have been confining. And it's been a long time." "Yes," Laurie conceded, then stopped abruptly. She musn't break down entirely. David hated scenes. But the time hadn't seemed long. It didn't when you loved your work. He loked at her anxiously, then both lapsed into an awkward silence. Page 586 Finally she said, "Here's Corwin Street, the third house on the right. And thanks." He pulled up to the curb, followed her with her bags, and placed them on the porch. "Goodbye, Miss Nichols. And if I can help you at any time. References, you know," he added awkwardly. "Thanks, Tl let you know," Laurie replied as she accepted his warm handshake and watched his tall, sturdy figure down the walk. Then she picked up her bags, opened the door, and went in. "Hi, Emily," she called. "I'm back. 'That is, if you want me." Emily, an older, heavier Laurie, spoke from the stair-top. "Come on up, Sis. I'm getting your room ready." She led the way. "See, new wallpaper, curtains, and all. Maybe you'll stay now?" Laurie smiled vaguely. "I don't know, Emily." She took off her hat and threw it on the bed while she sank down on the dressing table stool. She turned suddenly. "Why on earth haven't you, any children, Emily?" she asked. "Then I could mother them and love them, but never lose them." "Why haven't you married and had a houseful of your own?" "The sixty-four dollar question. You answer that," Laurie replied. "All right, I will. You're a children's nurse. You shut yourself up with somebody else's kids. You never go anywhere or do anything except with a child hanging to your FOR KEEPS hand. Why, you even have the married look." AURIE questioningly, around to the mirror. "Well, don't you?" Emily demanded. "That lovely auburn hair, and what do you do with it? Play it up? No. You just comb it." "But I'm not pretty, Emily. You are, but I never was." "Oh, bosh! You've nice eyes and a sweet, sweet mouth," was Emily's impatient rejoinder as she went out the door. "If only you had another kind of job." Yes, if only, Laurie echoed to herself. Caring for other peoples' children, training them until they became a part of your heart, then being dismissed when your work was finished. But this time she had so hoped. She got up and took off the brown pin-check and started unpacking. She seemed yet to hear Bobby's sobbing in his small bed. "I don't want Aunt Laurie to go away. I want her to stay with me." And then, Mother Kirby's voice. "She's not your aunt, Bobby. She's just a nurse. I'm your grandmother, and I can take care of you. I took care of your Daddy even when he was a baby. And you're a big boy, four years old." "T don't care," Bobby's voice rose to a wail. "I want Aunt Laurie. I like her. I'm going to ask Daddy. Mell let her-stay." But that was where Bobby was wrong. David hadn't told her she should stay, but that with Mother Kirby's coming she wouldn't be needed any longer. Laughed. Uncertainly, and swung stand children. 587 "Tm grateful for all you've done for Bobby these two years, don't mistake that. I've approved of your way of handling him, because perhaps it was so like Mary's. It's a wonderful gift, Miss Nichols. But where will you go now?" "T have a sister on Corwin Street. Pll go there for a time. After that.": Reminiscently, Laurie took a pile of crisp uniforms out of a bag and hung them in the closet. It had been two years, though it seemed longer. And Bobby was two when David Kirby, grief-stricken by the death of his wife, had pleaded with her. "Miss Nichols, you have been recommended to me as a young woman who loves children and whom children love. I must get someone. Hannah, our housekeeper, is kind, but she doesn't underCould you come? Would you?" Of course, she had consented. She would have even if Mr. Kirby hadn't seemed so pitifully helpless. That was her business. But when she'd had her first glimpse of Bobby, a flaxen-haired two-year-old, still a trifle unsteady on his feet, it became a labor of love. His father had brought him in to introduce them to each other. "Bobby, this is a new lady who has come to take care of you." OBBY eyed her anxiously, then hid his face against his father's knee. "Mommy gone? Bobby wants Mommy." Laurie reached for his small hand. "Aunt Laurie loves little boys, too, Bobby. Won't you let Aunt Laurie 588 take care of you? We'll play together and have such good times." One dark eye peeped out from behind his father's knee, then Bobby capitulated. "Aunt Laurie?" he asked, and allowed her to take Kim into her arms. And so began the two years, the two years now ended. If only Mother Kirby had been content to remain in Boston, hadn't suddenly decided her duty was with David. It wasn't that she needed a home, David had explained. She had ample means. But since his father's death six months ago, she had been restless. So why shouldn't she come and take care of Bobby? Laurie felt the tears well up in her eyes. She wiped them away. She had been drawn to him as to no other child, his earnest, small attempts to please her, his love, his gay little sense of humor Laurie got up suddenly. She must stop this mooning. But at all other times when she had been dismissed, she had felt her work really finished. This was different. Bobby still needed her. Mr. Kirby couldn't know, busy all day at the jewelry shop as he was. At any rate, he would think his mother right, or Say SO AURIE snapped the empty bags shut and put them into. The closet, retrieving a small crayon-col. Ored valentine Bobby had made which had dropped to the floor. It was almost the only keepsake she had of him. She studied it, smiling, fora moment. Then, feeling comforted, she propped it up close beside a tiny ceramic figure of a small boy on the dressing table. She must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 hurry down and help Emily with the dinner. Emily had the table in the breakfast nook set with a gay checkered cloth. "Dinner here?" Laurie inquired. "Yes. John telephoned from Chicago. He'll not be home till the last of the week. Stir this gravy, will you, while I mash the potatoes? And while we're eating, I'll tell you what we'll do." "What will we do?" Laurie asked. "We'll start a campaign to get you a husband, Laurie." Laurie laughed doubtfully. "Oh, Emily, don't be foolish." "I'm not foolish. You are. Someone's got to take you in hand, and I'm the one to do it." She looked Laurie over critically. "Your hair needs shortening. And I'll wager you haven't had a new dress in ages. Nothing but suits and uniforms, anyway. Now, you'll need a couple of formals, an afternoon dress or two, a hat that does something for you " Perhaps it was because Laurie didn't care enough about anything to object. She listened apathetically to Emily's plans and, later, submited to her appointments for her at beauty salons and women's dress shops, without too many objections. And parties. Emily had a sixth sense in regard to new, unattached' males in town, of ways to achieve invitations for Laurie. There was Paul DuBois, tall, black-haired, and rangy. She met him at the Stewart's party. He stood watching her from the side of the room, then as the first dance FOR KEEPS was finished, he came forward, asking her for the next. — "Stranger in town, Miss Nichols?" he asked as they circled the room. "T haven't seen you before." "No." She smiled noncommittally. Emily had warned her not to start talking nursing and other people's children. "No, I'm not a stranger. I've just been other places." "Hiding out? Well, don't disappear again, please. I'm going to be around here two or three months." Laurie felt a tiny tingle of excitement. Emily had assured her just before she left, "You look ten years younger, Sis, and really pretty in that frothy blue. Now do your best." | "Two or three months?" she inquired, her eyes mischievous. "Then youre not a fixture?" "No. So I have to work fast. Do you mind?" LAURIE laughed. "Tl wait and see. Do you mind?" "Cautious, are you?" and Laurie caught a gleam of added interest in the gray eyes bent upon her, an interest that resulted in a dinner date the next evening and a drive the following Saturday afternoon. "Keep it up, Sis," Emily exulted. "You're learning fast. Don't let him get away. He has everything." She gave a final twitch to Laurie's green suit. "A nice, long ride helps you to get acquainted, you know." "Oh, Emily, don't rush me, I've only seen the man three times." "And what you see, you like. That's fine." Emily countered. Laurie wondered what Emily would say if she told her she was 589 already tiring of Paul. Probably she was old-maidish, because he seemed bold to her, almost brash. And now, as she dressed for the ride, she felt almost reluctant to go. Don't be silly, she told herself. You're a big girl, you should be able to make decisions. All of her doubts seemed a trifle foolish when she returned from a very pleasant, sedate afternoon. Nevertheless, Paul DuBois was certainly not the answer to her dreams. He was too sure of his own charms, too certain she would appreciate them. So, that evening she refused his invitation to the movies, fully aware how this would be regarded by Paul, but she felt she couldn't endure again his _ over-confident laugh. "What's the idea, Laurie?" Emily inquired as she turned from the phone. "Here I work and slave getting escorts for you." "T don't like him," Laurie answered shortly, her eyes hostile. "Isn't that enough?" "Well, of course, oned. "Only at your age "T know. I'm thirty. I'm left hanging on the vine. But before I'd marry him " "Oh, sure, sure," Emily interposed hastily. "Don't get angry. There are plenty of other men." " Emily reasbP) ES, there was Jack Davis. She had seen him several times, but today he had asked if he might drive her to Kingston Friday to a barn dance. And she had accepted. She liked him. There was a sincerity in his lean face, in his blue, steady eyes. He was the very op- (Continued on page 641) Cathedral Valley Winifred N. Jones F I had known what that Sep- | tember day would bring, I ~~ wouldn't have been so reluctant to awake when the alarm shrilled in the pre-dawn blackness. It was a cloudy, cool morning and I wondered if any scenery could be worth getting up that early. But we found scenery that was worth not only the early rising, but the long ride, the dust, and hiking. We went to Cathedral Valley! The very mystery of its location stimulated our interest in this far valley lying somewhere in the wild canyon country south of Price and the level cliff country, and southeast of Emery and the strange "castle country." It was still dark when we left our homes in Provo, Utah, and as we started up Spanish Fork Canyon the dawn was brightening in the east. As we drove out of Price the sun was touching the tabletops of the dark mountains which rise above the peculiar olive-drab reaches of the valley. The general effect of dreariness was heightened by small, sharp, isolated mounds of dirt which contrasted with clay or mud, showing signs of heavy erosion. 'This part of the trip affects the observer with a weariness of soul which seems almost like a preparation in contrast to the magnificence farther south. We followed the highway to Emery and thirteen miles beyond, then we turned off on a dirt road leading east past some coal mines and piles of volcanic ash. Here we drove through a long stretch of Utah desert with eerie rock formaPage 590 of eastern Utah, tions, small vegetation, and the eternal variance of color. A line of pink cliffs suddenly broke this panorama, and the country changed character with a suddenness that startled us.. Here the hills were strewn with black boulders of lava as though tossed there by a petulant giant tired of a game. In the roadbed itself, and on the hillsides, agates and jaspers were lying with their brilliant pink, salmon, and orange colors contrasting with white and green markings. A real find for a "rockhound." But we were searching for a greater spectacle, and we found it. Twenty-five miles from where we had turned from the highway we stopped our car at the top of a valley rim. For here in this almost unknown country we had reached the spot where only horse, jeep, or "Shank's Pony" could go across country. This particular section of Utah was long familiar to stockmen and a few intrepid prospectors, but otherwise was virtually unvisited until 1945 when Worthen Jackson of Fremont, Utah, took a group of soldiers into the area to hunt for a crashed plane. New discoveries are still being made in the area, which includes both East and West Cathedral Valleys. Several previously hidden canyons have recently been disclosed which contain magnificent cathedrals of red rock. One spot in this wonderland is crisscrossed with lava dikes, some of which rise two hundred feet in the air. CATHEDRAL VALLEY Willard Luce 591 aaa E ae THE GREAT STONE CATHEDRALS GOME of these lava dikes were before us now, not quite that high, but sharp and black against the sky like borders of mourning. They are called the Walls of Jericho. We looked down from the valley rim and before us was the wonder of West Cathedral Valley. From the floor of scrub sagebrush in the narrow valley the towering cathedrals rise in sheer magnificence. Carved from red sandstone, they mount hundreds of feet and are domed with gray caps of a hardier stone. Where this capstone has eroded, the rains and winds have shaped the cliffs into pinnacles, spires, and chimneys with long flowing lines which rise directly from the valley with little or no slope. The quietness of the valley moves into your very being as you stand literally spellbound by the spectacle. Since water is scarce and vegetation sparse, there are only a very few desert creatures to disturb the stillness. As we walked along, the forms of the cliffs seemed to alter as our perspective varied. A few, though, were of definite shape. At one side was a gigantic lady's slipper, and at another a fireplace and chimney. In between two of the cathedrals was a tremendous "V," with sides perfectly matched, cut in the smooth, red wall. We stayed until late afternoon, taking pictures and watching the shadows change patterns on the brilliant color. Finally, we had to leave. 'Trudging back up the sandy trail to the car, we were filled with calm and a new respect for the mayesties of nature. As we began the long north trip home, three eagles soared high above us in lazy circles as if they knew security here from man's encroaching civilization. Dwarf Iris Sylvia Pezolt FTER Herb left for work Dora Baker took the morning paper from beside her husband's plate. She picked up a piece of toast to munch, patted the bouquet of dwarf blue iris that Herb brought home last night, and spread out the newspaper. Funny how Herb liked the early spring iris. They had thought he could have a bed of them at their new home, but the raw yellow dirt from the cellar excavation was fatal to the few he transplanted. She sighed and glanced at the headlines. | "Eastern Situation Still Tense!" Eastern Situation—that meant Korea. Was Jim?—she wouldn't read it. She twitched the paper and turned to the inside section. A cartoon on the classified page offered relief, and as she bent closer to focus her glasses on the caption, an address leaped out of the box ad next to the cartoon. The address of her old home! Yes, there was no mistake. It said For Sale. For sale again after two long years. 'Two years of regret, of wishing herself back, of nights when tears burned her eyes and made her head ache, of days of constant comparison between this small, new, ultra-modern stucco, and the big, old, shabby frame house. Two years of silence for fear Herb would suspect how she felt. For it was she who had wanted to move. She had said she wanted a smaller, more up-to-date house. She had complained of the big, oldPage 592 fashioned frame house, of the long, narrow windows that took twice as much ladder climbing to wash as small windows. She had said that the old furnace gobbled fuel, and had refused to listen when Herb had pointed out that they were warm during the big blizzard a few years ago because of the large storage space for fuel. That the new house would be closer to Marjorie's school was the argument that decided Herb at last. "It would be closer to Marjorie's school," he admitted, opposing the move as usual, "but she won't always be going to that school. Next year it's college, and then maybe marriage." "Then we won't need so much room," Dora had declared triumphantly, clinching the argument. "Then there are those stair posts. Every one is loose at the bottom. You've never taken off the gate at the head of the stairs we put there when Jim was a baby." "Kept him from falling down stairs,' he had chuckled, turning automatically to the radio, as he did whenever Jim was mentioned. The radio and the iris bed were Herb's life. He had chosen the spot by the incinerator for his iris bed when they bought the frame house in the first years of their marriage, and the warmth did seem to bring the shoots up and the blue buds out earlier than in any other bed in the neighborhood. And now there was a chance to go back. DWARF IRIS But this she couldn't admit to Herb. She'd said too much against the old home. She'd have to manage it herself. 'There were her bonds, and the money from the sale of the old house in their joint account. 'That would be enough for a deposit. Time enough to tell Herb after. 'Then she could eat humble pie, she'd have her home again. She'd see the real estate man today. Her heart sang as she thought of being back in the old neighborhood, only a few blocks from church, and close enough to run in for a chat, in a house dress, with ever so many old friends. Perhaps she'd better call the real estate agent. She'd make sure he was in. It might be necessary to go this morning. Carefully folding the paper back to the advertisement, She dialed. Only the buzz, buzz of the busy signal answered. T' was at a sewing meeting she'd first heard about her new stucco home. Someone was telling about the lawyer who had come from another town to take the place of the young Mr. Jackson who was called back into military service. "He has a houseful of children," She had heard an animated voice say, "and all he can find is this cunning little two-bedroom number over on the other side of town." "He needs your big place, Dora," the hostess laughed. Dora hadn't laughed. She could hardly wait for the meeting to end to hunt up the lawyer and talk of exchanging houses. Herb had said no more, but she'd seen him bending over the iris bed that night long 593 after it was too dark to distinguish flower from weed. The new house cost more than they had wished to pay, but the old house brought more than they expected, so Dora shrugged it off. Moving was worse than she anticipated, for the accumulations of twenty years didn't fit easily into the smaller house. They owned too much furniture for such a streamlined place of efficiency, yet nobody wished to part with anything. Even Marjorie, whom Dora felt she could count on as an ally, proved petulant about the arrangement of the house, which seemed too open. "Goodness, Mother," she said, glancing around the living room and through the nearby bedroom doors, "I can't bring my friends here. We'll be in Dad's hair all the time. You know how he likes the radio." But it was really Jim's letter that spoiled the new house for her. Jim had sailed across the Pacific before she had found the place, and since his letters were addressed to their postoffice box she did not take time, in the hurry of moving, to explain. Then she could not. "It is such a comfort," Jim wrote, "to think of you all safe and happy at home. When I am tired or cold, or dirty, or scared, I shut my eyes and see Dad weeding the iris bed or Mother sitting at her sewing machine with all the mended clothes hanging on the gate that kept us kids from falling downstairs. And I think of my own little room where I was always warm, and the bathroom with so much hot water, and (Continued on page 639) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1891 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" CHEERFULNESS: There is no greater, every-day virtue than cheerfulness. This quality is like sunshine to the day, or gentle, renewing moisture to parched herbs. The light of a cheerful face diffuses itself, and communicates the happy spirit that inspires it; the sourest temper must sweeten in the atmosphere of continuous good humor. Be cheerful always. There is no path but will be easier traveled, no loads but will be lighter, no shadow on heart or brain but will lift sooner in presence of a determined cheerfulness. You will do and bear every duty and burden better by being cheerful, it will be your counselor in solitude, and your passport in society. Genuine cheerfulness is an almost certain index of a happy mind.—Minnie Hulbert THE OREGONIA Slow sinks the orb of day, but ere his beams Of purest crimson vanish to illume Another world, his parting lustre streams Along the wooded height where greenly bloom The buds of Autumn, while the emerald plume That heavenward points from Nature's temple, bends In glory's sea—and wood and crag assume ° Each heavenly tint that evening kindly lends, Till in one lovely scene, earth's wildest beauty blends. —C. H. Jenson OBEDIENCE: The Savior says, ""Not my will but Thine be done." This we call obedience. A carnal heart is willing to render obedience as long as it will serve selfish ends, it goes no further, but true obedience is the forsaking of our own wishes, to the will of our parents while under their care and to our God always. God commands perfect and absolute obedience to His will. Obedience is no framer of excuses, doesn't dispute, argue, and reason, but obeys the will of God forever. —Jane John GOD O'ER RULETH ALL THINGS RIGHT When our narrow-sighted vision Cannot trace th' Eternal aim! Let us wait His wise decisons, Let us trust Him still the same. Past our feeble comprehension Is God's comprehensive care, Yet we know that all who seek Him Need not perish in despair. —Emily H. Woodmansee VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE: On the 22nd of July we continued our jeurney taking the South Fork of the Virgin River until we reached Shonesburg; it is wonderful how the people ever found this place, as it has to be reached by dug-ways for the want of room along the River bank for a road; and if they ever had any land to farm worth speaking of, the floods of the last few years have taken it away, leaving the people with but poor prospects for the future; they certainly deserve credit for their staying qualities. At 2 p. M. We held a meeting with the good sisters of Shonesburg and reorganized a Relief Society with Sister Emily De Mill as President and Fidelia De Mill as lst and Jemima Beale as 2nd Counselors. —Ann C. Woodbury Page 594 7 ES Kees 1 FLORENCE ATKINSON, who died a few months ago in Salt Lake City, mothered more than 300 unfortunate children, and a few adults in her home over a period of thirty years. 'These afflicted ones came for her care from many states and from as far away as the Canal Zone and Peru. She kept many subnormal girls at her own -expense, trained them, and helped them to find employment. She adopted two small boys. For the most part, she was unnoticed and unsung; however, Dr. Ramsey of the State Training School once said of her, "Florence Atkinson should be taken to the State Capitol and have a medal pinned on her." ARGUERITE HIGGINS, a war correspondent in Korea, has reported from the very front lines, in as much personal danger as any man reporter. Her book, War in Korea, is now off the press. MISS FATIMA JINNAH, | although she has no official position, is a great political and spiritual force in Pakistan. Her brother, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, proved himself one of the outstanding intellects and leaders of men of his generation, in winning Pakistan from Ghandi's and Nehru's India, and making it into a great Moslem state. With her keen intellect and her Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon dedication to the cause, Fatima continues to prove herself the nearequal of her famous brother, who has died. His powerful influence still remains with the people, however, aided by his sister's influence. MINNIE IVERSON HODAPP, American Fork, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of a book of poems, Flowering Moments on Temple Square, recently off the press. The poems are descriptive in character and inspirational in spirit, beautifully illustrating the feelings of a poet for her religious heritage as it is expressed in historic Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah. LELLA MARLER HOGGAN, "well-known and much - loved Utah author, died July 4, 1951, in Ogden. Her first published story appeared in The Young Woman's Journal in' 1896, and was followed by many artistic and inspirational writings published in the L. D. S. Church magazines, including the three series of essays: "Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest of life," "Little Moments of Eternity," and "The Sunny Side of the Hill," which, among many other contributions from this gifted woman, have appeared over the years in The Relief Society Magazine. Page 595 Q-> EDITORIAL = VOL. 38 SEPTEMBER 1951 What Shall We Read to Children? HE, treasure house of books, well stored with beauty and truth, should be opened for all children. They need the inspiration, the entertainment, the lasting companionship of books, and they need to have their pliable young minds directed along the paths of thoughts which will enrich their lives and uplift their spirits. Although the great concept of the everlasting value and the eternal truths, which our most valued books reveal, must be a gradual growth within the mind, still the beginnings of discernment can take root and grow in the mind of a small child. The mother, the child, and a book, make an endearing portrait of one of the dearest aspects of home life. Fortunate is the child who has listened to his mother read words of wonder and beauty at a time when his young mind was eager to learn and to explore the bright and shining avenues of the life before him. And yet, today, many mothers neglect this opportunity, and many children lack the close unity with their parents which the sharing of books would give them. It is so much easier to let the children see a moving picture or look at television, or listen to the radio. Many mothers forget that it is usually difficult to exercise any choice of the entertainment presented by these mediums, for their quality cannot be estimated until Page 596 after the performances are over— and then it is too late. With books, it is different, their content. Can be measured and appraised before they are presented to a child, and many books, easily obtainable, have endured the test of years and remain as treasures. Mothers who sincerely wish to read to their children and who make an effort to be selective in the choice of material are confused by the great variety of books available, and they are not sure which stories and poems and pictures will be appealing to their children. 'The classics and some anthologies of poems for children are dependable, and many modern writings are to be recommended. Side by side in enjoyment, a child may listen to Eugene Field's "Sugar Plum Tree," Robert Louis Stevenson's "Bed in Summer,' or be equally entertained by Walter de la Mare or A. A. Milne. It is helpful to seek the advice of teachers, librarians, and Primary Association officers. The Children's Friend, beautifully and carefully prepared and edited, is a good companion for Latter-day Saint children. Early in the child's development he can be taught that books are valuable, that they are not to be torn and pulled to pieces. Before very long a child may be given his own small bookcase where he can keep the storybooks and the poem books he loves, and a mother should see EDITORIAL that other children in the family are not allowed to destroy the books which another child treasures. Children two and three years old love to hear poems read to them, especially poems which have definite rhyme and which have rhythm or music, and it is a strange and interesting truth, that a poem or a story which a child loves never loses its charm and there is the continued request for a repetition. It is not the quantity or the variety of reading material which is so important. Rather it is the quality. Parts of the Bible can be read to very small children. 'The mother may tell a Bible story, showing pictures of the events, and then she may intersperse her narrative by reading a few sentences directly from the Bible. For instance, in telling the story of the coming of Jesus to earth, these words, or other selections, may be read: "And the angel said unto them. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." There is perhaps no story which is more beautiful or has greater value than the Book of Mormon account 597 of the visit of Jesus to the Western Hemisphere. And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. So they brought their little children and set them down upon the. Ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst. And he took their little children, one by one, and he blessed them, and prayed unto the father for them. And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones. (See 3 Nephi, chapter 17.) The hearing and reading and learning of good prose and poetry give the child acquaintance with good and beautiful words and thoughts, inspire good writing, and add worth and influence to speech and action. And there is always the greater, the more lasting value, the treasures found in books are lasting, and they provide joy and companionship forever available, forever influencing the mind toward the heights of growth and development. Let mothers be always vigilant in the precious days when their children are young, when their minds are open to receive truth and beauty —a heritage for their eternal lives. —V. P. C. G oodbye Little Boy Angelyn W. Wadley He could hardly wait to start to school, To work with pencil, book, and rule. I couldn't really wish he'd stay At home by me this special day. But do mothers always smile through tears, On the day that ends the pre-school years? Notes. TO THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference THE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, 1951. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of — Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings on Wednesday and on Thursday morning is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Sexthooks for Reliof Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. 'Relief Society Handbook " Aeailable The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society is available at the office of the General Board, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedure. It includes a detailed index for ready reference and will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. Page 598 Hal Rumel Boys in September Alberta H. Christensen Boys in September are boys with a yearning For one hour more with camp kit and tent, Schoolward their steps, but streamward their dreaming Now summer is over, vacation is spent. Boys in September are hair-brushed and clean-eared, Sitting sedately, their eyes in a book But only one-half of each boy hears the school bell, The other remains in the cool of a brook. The canyons return to the silence of color; But listen—young laughter is echoing still. Where Trails climb, you'll see them, freckled and carefree, Sun on their faces—the wind in their hair. Page 599 Through This Door CHAPTER 2 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Mary Ruth Grayson, fifteen, tries to care for her father and her motherless brothers and sisters. She is surprised to learn that Rachel Marriott, once a woman of wealth, is coming to live in the shabby house across the street. Mary Ruth becomes acquainted with Mrs. Martiott, her husband, and daughter Lora, the night they arrive. The next morning, however, Mrs. Marriott tells Mary Ruth, who carries over some popovers, that they are leaving. 6 6 EAVING?" I cried in delight. "Oh, I'm so glad., Where are you going?" She was putting the popovers on one of her own plates. She stopped and looked at me. "Glad?" "Oh, yes, glad, Mrs. Marriott. I hope you'll find a place a lot better than this." "Why, thank you." She really smiled at me then. "It is a beautiful place, as a matter of fact. My sister, in Louisville, Kentucky, has invited Lora and me to come and live with her as long as we like." "You and Lora," I said, "but what about Mr. Marriott?" It was none of my affair, none at all. But the Marriotts were mine in a strange sort of way. She answered, defensively, "Mr. Marriott will live with his brother." She pushed back her hair in an uncertain, fumbling gesture. "He'll have much better care than I could possibly give him. It's better this way." "Of course it is," I said stoutly. "T'm so glad." I was. My illusions came flooding back. There was Page 600 always a tower for the princess, a sanctuary. "Goodbye, Mrs. Marriott." "This terrible, terrible old house," Mrs. Marriott went on, just as if I were a grown woman. "This awful house!" "I know," I said. "It sure is a mess." I looked about at the grimy cupboards, the linoleum that was brown from having the pattern all worn away, the rusty, unpolished stove. I wanted to make her feel happy. "I guess it really was quite grand when your grandfather built it. I bet he was proud of it when it was new." She laughed, a. Dry, small sound. "Tve heard him tell a thousand times about the housewarming they had, when the house was finished at last. He thought he never would get it done, what with crop failures and Indian troubles, and taking time off to go on a mission to Wales. But he finally made it, bless him. He was the salt of the earth." I took a deep, envious breath.. "They had it so exciting then, didn't they, Mrs. Marriott? Not like now, with everything so hard. They had fun." "Fun?" She stood still and stared at me. "Fun?" I knew she thought me a dolt. I said, defensively, "Well, it was fun to build things and have adventures and do things. Not like now, when there's no chance for anybody to be anything, except what he was born to be.", THROUGH THIS DOOR She came over to me and lifted up my chin and looked into my eyes. "You believe that, don't you?" I pulled away. "Sure I do. That's why I'm glad you are going, so you won't get to be like the others." - "But people can be anything they want to be." "No, they can't. Not any more. Things aren't like they used to be. There isn't anything to fight with any more." 'What is your name, child?" "Mary Ruth." "Mary Ruth," she took a deep breath, "You have just been reminding me of how many things I do believe in." "Huh?" She looked over my head. "TI was frightened for a while. But I'm not afraid now. Run along and let me see what I can do." She gave me a slight push toward the door. I went reluctantly, not understanding at all. I turned back to ask her what she meant, but she was over at the kitchen range flipping the damper on and off, her dark eyes thoughtful. T didn't take long to do housework in our house, just to pull the quilts back up on the beds, and prop the boys' bed with the blocks of wood they kept knocking out, flip out the flies with an apron, wash dishes, and sweep the kitchen floor. Only this morning, I still had the memory of Mrs. Marriott's eyes on my hair, so I washed it and dried it and braided it extra neatly. That done, I felt so clean that I decided to take a bath, as long as there was hot water left in the tank. 601 I even put on a clean dress, which meant washing the other one. But I felt quite regal when I was finished. I went over to Mrs. Callister's. She was sitting in her kitchen fanning her perspiring face. "Mary Ruth! Isn't it hot enough to cook you?" I nodded agreement.: She laughed, her hearty, throaty chuckle. "I went over to visit our new neighbor. Golly! If she didn't give me a workout to last me a lifetime!" "Mrs. Marriott? She's leaving." "No, she isn't, she changed her mind. She's staying here. She's scrubbing down that kitchen until you'll be able to eat off the walls. She's going to paint it, too. All by herself." "Paint it? Paint that old place?" "That's what she says. Throwing good money after bad, I tell her. But she won't listen. 'Hand me this and hand me that,' she says, until first thing I know I have a scrubbing brush in my hand, and I'm working away as if I were getting paid for it." Mrs. Callister looked at me and I looked at her, and we both began to laugh. "'That's what I thought," She said, "Mrs. Marriott,' says I, 'I have work of my own to be doing. So I came away." I slid toward the door. "T'll go over and see how she's getting along." Mrs. Callister looked past me. "If she comes to pay me a return visit, she'll not find my kitchen in need of scrubbing, I can promise you that. I think I'll give it a onceover-lightly this morning." 602 I looked about the cheerful, disordered room. "You just got through housecleaning three months ago." "T know I did," said Mrs. Callister, "but I'm not having her look at my kitchen, with that look of hers." I slipped through the hedge and almost stumbled over Mr. Marriott, who was sitting in the old rocker reading a book. He looked up and smiled. He was a gentle, kindly looking person, with blue, tired eyes. He held up the book. "Fiven Shakespeare seems uncomforting on a day like this. I wish I had something new." "The Bookmobile is supposed to be through today. -It should be down at the drugstore by now." I smiled diffidently. "I could get a book for you." "Would you, child, something full of adventure?" I brought him an armload of books, and he smiled his gratitude and withdrew immediately from the grayness and the bleakness of his surroundings into the world of fantasy. ORA was playing on the porch. Her ringlets were brushed to a shining silkiness, and she wore a pretty pink gingham dress and black patent slippers. She bounced a ball dispiritedly. "Hello," I said. "Why don't you play with the other kids?" "Mother won't let me." "She won't? Why?" "They're dirty." "Oh, is that so!"" Fury shook me. I looked across the street to where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 my sisters were playing, and the shock of seeing them as they looked all the time smote me. They were ragged, dirty, and their straight blond hair fell in strings about their laughing faces. Every tender feeling I had ever held for Mrs. Marriott was washed away in a flame of hatred. I flounced home. Let the Marriotts go or stay, I didn't care. One of these days they wouldn't be so uppity, when they had become like the rest of us, which they would. They would get just as tired and gray and dusty and grimy as we were. Mr. Marriott would stop shaving, and then he would forget his tie, and then his beautiful white shirts would wear out, and he would get blue, harsh work shirts. 'They would, grow more and more soiled, because Mrs. Marriott would have given up the battle she had so foolishly begun. I went home and even though it was noon I built a roaring fire in the range. I put the big washtub on the stove and called in the youngsters. They came reluctantly. Their shrill reluctance changed to a bellow of outrage when they saw what they must do. "Bathe in the middle of the week! You're crazy!" 'That was Maybelle. "We don't have to!" That was Marlene. I pursued them, fighting and screaming, and brought each of them to a triumph of cleanliness. I put on their second-best clothes and gave them each a penny. "Now walk by that Lora Marriott's place and act like you don't see her, every one of you." But in the perverse way of chil- THROUGH THIS DOOR dren, they went by Lora's place and fell raptly in love with her, and with Mrs. Marriott. When I went looking for them to come home for lunch, I found them busy as ants helping to clean up the Marriott yard. I was furious. _ "Tf there's any of that to be done," I stormed, "you come home and do it here." "That's no fun," they whined. But I drove them home, and the rest of the day was spent cleaning up the yard. Evening saw a great order upon our place. I relaxed on the porch. That would show that smart, old Mrs. Marriott. Dad came home from the filling station. His tired face lighted when he saw us. He looked around the yard. "Just the way your mother would have done, Mary Ruth. Just the way she was." I turned away, tears hot in my throat, sorry I hadn't thought to do it before, and proud because my mother was a woman just like Mrs. Marriott. She liked things nice. But I often wondered in the days that passed if even she had industry to equal Mrs. Marriott, or that same passion for seeing that others were kept well occupied, too. HE summer sped away, but on our street things were different from what they had been before. It was true Mr. Marriott was still the same, gray and gentle, and forever hiding in his world of books, books that took him to the far-off places and adventures his heart would never permit him to visit. But our street was altered to a re- 603 markable degree. The battered, | leatherette sofa with its straw insides forever spilling out, that had long disgraced Mrs. Callister's front porch, had been taken away and stored in the barn. In its place swung a neat, white-painted swing seat. Not as comfortable by far as the sofa had been, but then, none of us had much time for sitting any more. The Marriott house was most notable for its transformation, but then Mrs. Marriott had "squandered," as Mrs. Callister put it, her little hoard of money for paint. She had had it painted a pale gray with a white trim. Each coat had brought a vast dignity to the ancient place, and a clean beauty. It had given our whole street a tremendous lift. The Callisters were forced to paint theirs because they lived so near, and the contrast was so terrible. Mrs. Callister used the money she had been saving for a television set and she held it against Mrs. Marriott for a long time. Her sons were equally angry, because it meant fewer hours down by the creek and less time fishing. But, afterwards, Mrs. Callister was quite pleased and made sighting remarks about the rest of us who could afford no paint. But Dad did put in a new lawn and a white picket fence, and after a few spankings the children learned to go around the back and keep off the tender, growing green. Gone were the long, long hours on Mrs, Callister's front porch. It shamed and silenced us to be sitting doing nothing but chattering while Mrs. Marriott sewed industriously on her own front porch. 604 She was a beautiful seamstress, and she took a special delight in designing clothes for Lora. It hurt me to see Lora so dainty and my own pretty little sisters in their shrunken, faded cottons. I bought material and a pattern and stopped by one afternoon when Mrs. Marriott was sewing. She gave me a wonderful welcome, treated me as though I were a grown woman and a great lady besides, and helped me all that afternoon. When I arose, hot and perspiring, to take my pieces home to baste them together, she said, "Would you like a glass of lemonade, Mary Ruth?" "T would, Mrs. Marriott. I'm so thirsty I could drink ditch water." She smiled and went in the house, and in a little while she was back with glasses dipped in powdered sugar on the rims and mint leaves floating in the iced lemonade, and cookies with caraway seeds on the tops. We sipped and munched, and Mrs. Marriott told me about her life when she was my age. It sounded strange and wonderful.' But. When I was going she put her arm across my shoulders. "I do admire you, Mary Ruth," she said, "I admire you very much." HE words went singing home with me, and because of the music they made it was easier to try harder than ever at everything, so she would say them again. I spent all the rest of the summer afternoons on Mrs. Marriott's front porch. I learned to sew, and I learned other things that she would have bitten her tongue off rather I stammered, "The. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 than tell me. I learned she was even poorer than we had guessed, that the little hoard of money was melting much too fast, that when it was gone there would be no more. "And I'm forty, Mary Ruth never worked in my life... Just school and marriage... Sometimes I get frightened. Lying in bed at night, one thinks such dreadful things." I sewed and listened for the unsaid things under the casual phrases. My heart ached because I had no comfort to give her. "I musn't get frightened," she said one day. "It will be all right. I know it will. Pll find a way, just as I found a way to make this house livable... Only it must come soon." I didn't lift my head, because the words were hard to say. I couldn't have said them' at all, if I had not seen her face in Church, the lighted, breathing-in look she had for the words that some speakers gave... Lord will take care of you, Mrs. Marriott... Just like he did before." She smiled and pulled my braids. "Thank you, Mary Ruth. It's just that today my believer is bent, and you know when that happens you get sick all over." She laughed with me, but then she said seriously, "You're right, Mary Ruth. I just have to be alert to know when he is helping meso I can do my part." It happened on the Friday before school started. Mrs. Marriott had come downtown with me to pick out material for a school dress. She was going to make it for me. "The first year of high school is so important, Mary Ruth. You'll have to look your nicest." THROUGH THIS DOOR We had brought Lora along, and she danced ahead of us, looking like a princess in her _ rose-sprigged organdy dress with the blue socks to match and the blue ribbon in her hair. We went in Millers to the yard goods department. Suddenly a woman cried, "Why, Rachel Marriott! It's been years!" Mrs. Marriott looked up, and gladness flooded her face. "Why Thelma Williams! What on earth are you doing here in our little town?" Thelma Williams was about the age of Mrs. Marriott. She had very light hair, and I found myself staring at it trying to make up my mind if it was real, or whether she put something on it. She was wearing dark glasses and a bright lipstick. Her suit was the shade of her lip- 605 stick. She looked gay and important. "Darling, you've lost so much weight," she said. There was something in the way she said it that made me look closely at Mrs. Marriott, really look at her. I saw that she had lost weight, a great deal, and losing it had brought out lines in her face that hadn't been there before. I saw that she was wearing the blue linen suit that she had worn on the first night she had come, but a summer's wear was in it, the white gloves were noticeably mended, and the blue linen shoes were quite shabby. I drew near to Mrs. Marriott, as if in that way I could keep her from being hurt by this well-groomed, narrow-eyed woman. (To be continued ) i = Srom Some Sar Yesterday Josephine J. Harvey There are days I will remember Closely treasured through the years, When we walked in quiet lanes And felt the peace of summer dusk. Lingering on the gentle slope With hands cupped to the wind We heard the ocean's timeless song. There are words I will remember, Echoing from some far yesterday That caused my heart to lift, My soul to gather courage As a lamp against the night. Remembered words that you have spoken Go singing down the avenues of thought. SELECTED DATA ' annual report—L950) REVEF Society reached its 108th birthday in 1950 with a total membership of 126,550, an increase of 4,640 over 1949. 'This increase, while gratifying, is credited largely to the missions which increased 1,999 members and exceeded the increase in L. D. S. Families, but in the stakes, the increase of 2,641 members did not keep pace with the increase in the number of L. D. S. Families. This suggests the need of more intensive effort in increasing membership in the stakes. During the year 57.2% of the members engaged in leadership activities, thus an increase of 5,147 women over 1949 received leadership development. The average attendance at regular meetings increased in the stakes 1.52% and in the missions 1.61% showing that more women took an active interest in the educational program. As shown on the charts, theology and testimony meeting continued to be the most popular, followed by social science, work, and literature. Through an increase over 1949 of 196,433 visits to families by 3,516 more visiting teachers in 2,244 more districts, the average number of visits to families has reached 7.25, indicating a commendable, steady climb toward the goal of twelve visits a year to each family. Compassionate services continued to expand as indicated by 26,434 more visits to the sick and homebound, and 5,358 more days care of the sick, as well as increases in assistance at time of death. In addition to these services, the sisters, carrying out one of the basic objectives of the society—ministering to human suffering—have performed spontaneously innumerable helpful and kindly services "above and beyond the call of duty." The report indicates steady and wholesome growth in all aspects of the program in the 180 stakes and 41 missions reporting. The Central Pacific Mission was absorbed by the Hawaiian Mission during the year, but its activities are included in this report. 'The reports were carefully prepared, 49 stakes and 3 missions being perfect, while 103 stakes and 25 missions required only minor correction. The narrative sections of the reports revealed a wide variety of special activities and radiated a spirit of genuine enthusiasm for the work. The foreign missions continued to show steady growth in membership and a broader development of the regular Relief Society program. To all who have helped advance the work of Relief Society during the past year, the general board extends its sincere thanks and appreciation. Human misery is increasing with the turbulence of the times, thus placing upon our organization an even greater responsibility to minister to the well-being of our fellow men. With the continued devoted service of our loyal membership we shall meet this responsibility. Mangal 0. Citviong. General Secretary-Treasurer Illustrated by Dorothy Platt Handley. SOc nOAO ABBE RON Coln. OO080.5.5 65.695.0.0 GIOLO On Sooo ene 6 2 BOE SAS D SNE GROG nO O66 OnGNO RO RO BORO MS BORON 0 nn KORO SO 01505 SOROS CSCI Kae ea ae eo atleast sears as SO RT Pe SO SOME ee ek ee Sn at a a hae ha at att ha oe ee ee PP Pee Pere eee, Pe ee Pe ee ae aie ee a ee eee he Se Shee ee Sie Sh Se Sie She Sh ie Se Si SL SPL SL PS OS SR A a a Sd he Oe a Oe Si Oh eS She eh a ee Sb be ee Se ee Se re es PPP PE Pe PS ee ha ahd hee Shee i ae aie aie hd ee ee hee he hee ihe Side She Se De Ti I I 2 I IP 2 SE ch he ee et eet hee Shee ee See ee ee ee See Oe Se See he he ee ee ek ee oe oe ee PE ee het ee ee eee ee ee ee a er aide hee She ee he Sh She Te I 2 JP JS ON I SO 2 J PE a ke he ee et hee het ee he ee he he ee he ee he ee ee ee ee eee ee oe ee ee ee eS ee HS Shar Shac shar ar Shahar Seat Spot ie at Pat SPS IS SPI PS SPSS IP PSR Pon SRS PSD Rae Skat ar Sh ha hat eet ia Sha Dat De Si Sh hI St RRA IR RR DR IR SR In the stakes, the gain of 2,641 Relief Society members did not keep pace with the increase of Latter-day Saint families, thus decreasing the percentage to 45.2%. In the missions, however, the gain of 1,999 members was greater than the increase in families, reaching 63.5%. MoUXd ds, Famtliv. 7°923,909 | IN STAKES RE 101,392 a oR 45.27. " ° OF LDS. HS OF L. D. S, FAMILIE § Sane FAMILIES 1949 DO rrr Rees mee 25,158 23,159 9 Bes oR, OR, oo) Pee 5 60.9%; | | 63.57 1949 1950. \Al ppnow 2 Wlombend tn 2 Xhadershija Celivilivs Se tee Te Pa. "a 23 24 — GENERAL OFFICERS 55.22% BS, *- 'J 2,002 2,091 STAKE OFFICERS aren 397 488 = MISSION OFFICERS ey y, 10,701 113,189 LOCAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS | aE — 4,971 5,033 OTHER OFFICERS 1949 9,118 10,018 — CLASS LEADERS 40,109 43,625 VISITING TEACHERS 1949 1950 Opportunities for development were given to 5/% of the membership through leadership activities. Ceogr afshete Lithibulion o AO). }. Organizations " members owrc.31 1950 A [ — ee ee: etetetetes er etetecata StStheee Dee et Stet eter eet Pesereee eres resent ene ti: IPSS En ee eee eae ceesateesesc cece sat ctetetetettetatetatetetetecetetetstscetetscetetsestsesesece te teteee late t este wtecetesesetescatecscoretssetetecs Pec St Se Sth Se bree Ser ree ero Pe Peo Pee Pee Poa. Bae teen, Orr aE AL) Ve HEE PO Cee 20 ) 247 Ee 21 \ 383 [Re eee NE gees 17 FE: 234 DO SOY " NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN STAKES OC) NUMBER OF ORGANIZATIONS IN MISSIONS NUMERALS OUTSIDE OF SQUARES AND CIR. CLES INDICATE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP. ORGANIZATIONS MEMBERS UNITED STAKES 1,514 99,310 STATES MISSIONS _ 788 13,816 2,302 113,126 DEC. 31, 1950 2,981 ORGANIZATIONS 126,550 MEMBERS OTHER STAKES 45 2,082 COUNTRIES MISSIONS _ 634 11,3420 2 ar? 13,424 22S Bocce, Fe Fe ee. Za ca ots, S RLAN (14) = 703 NEW ZEALAND (1948), = "9 = 4 4 ba 57 ) 673 -SAMOA = ' 2 j yal 709 (46) & " ap. 365 TONGA [3] SN = a " > (15 ) 247 TAHITH (1942) 4l w@) 2 Ne Urn C 282 102 343 Note: Central Pacific Mission consolidated with Hawaiian Mission, February 3, 1950. Ae C 6c 0 8 0 0 0 0 te 8 8 0 6 0 0c ce ee 8 6 6 0 0 0 2 0 0 06 0.0 00 8 e228 0 0 0 08 08 wo 00088 Otte fag te te te eee ee ee ee oso eee ee ee he ee lt het het het hee ee ee Oe ee ee ee ee he eae ae he oe oe be he ee ee | Pa a a le So hel ll el et el het hee he hdl hee ee ee hae hel ae hal hae hee ee eae hel ee ee ae hee ee ee hee he ee he ee et ee ee ee ee Se De ee Se Ge LO Ie Ie tL EP PP il ee hel ie ee he ee ee he i ee GC a ee et Ie, nL I) eke oo ie he be oe oe ie oe oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Oe Pe Oe Oe Oe ee ee ee eee he ae he he oe ae ae oe oe | A N N U A L R E P O R TT 1 9 +5 =O TOTAL MEETINGS HELD IN STAKES IN MISSIONS eoeee eee eee gq ee eeend vg eee esee e e IN MISSIONS MEETINGS AVERAGE MEETINGS AVERAGE HELD ATTENDANCE HELD ATTENDANC ' La As = IN STAKES VISITING mea & *.5 agers On ya TEACHER ( QE Wa ue ad er is tees fo" MEETINGS "ALS 7 FETS =48.6% 49.3% sted = 54.4% 49.8% ——_——— set ete = 1949.1950 1949 1950 1949 1950 1949 1950 The percentage of average attendance at visiting teacher meetings, which increased slightly in the stakes and decreased in the missions, indicates need for greater stimulation in this activity. % = Sl ot IN MISSIONS = ioe wort md SES pet Fe] tweotoe Oe es Rob eg: NS ooo a ) Sep) ER Ped BSSfo: v "Pos Pa 474 bees] REGULAR oy (RES) (ES Laced Ee 3 ' Qe] Popes | oe ra oat MEETINGS 0 | '3: Sy oe ' PN] ee ES Pa ry Gs Ba MG OS ae a0 nee = oo "y '49°50 '49°50 *49°50 "49°50 '49°50 *49°50 °49 '50 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1949 - 41.78% AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1949 - 30.16% 1950 - 31.68% 1949 1950 1950 - 43.39% 7,917 8,286 | 96,433 amo Visits | \ LD. Families. 1,910,662 1,714,229 ee ote Po he he he bet he ee eteeeeaeeopen Oe Ce ee ee ee) eeoeeerrrvrereoPeoenseveeeee eerererreereoePeeseeeeeee @eoeveererernee MGevreeeeonvneveoen @oeeversreoomeseeoeoveorn eoeteovreerevee Geseeeeeveeeee eorerevreeecePesreeereeooee 1949. 1950 Phe bet hat he he hee ee et ee Ce ie ie be ee he eet a aD wrote caterer ot otate be be be be be ee ee ee ee) hit he be be ee hee be ee he ee ee Phat be ber be bat ee et ee ee D ot ee oe Pe ee Pee ee Pe Oe Oe ee) NOT HOME —=— == 26,200 ==587,193 Mi il Hl i uw THT EACH L. D. S. HOME SHOULD BE VISITED BY R. S. ONCE A MONTH OR 12 TIMES A + YEAR. ——— AVERAGE COMMUNICATIONS NUMBER OF IN LIEU OF VISITS VISITS TO 1949 - 31,262 EACH L. D. S. 1950 - 31,528 FAMILY er er rs Ce ee a eh a ee Cee el el a Pa 2 SR The Tet She he ha See a a PL Pe a hh ha a ee ee Ti he hdd Se 0 ORG 9595 95959505089 RO 50505¢ selete Spcfelnteletaiclehctahe see tePeebtoie ots Sed a ad aaa a I Di ee hd oe Shedeh ee ee ee | Cer a ae a en a ae ee cn A ee a had gk ea ee ie ied a a Pa aa aS SS NS ag SR gw PS SD a Db St al Sh Sh Se Sh hd hg LoL DP IP Ie ae he Se hd hd ha a hahahaha hdl le e 96 OG9GO GOO OO Ox Ce ee ee ee ie ih Sie hd hl a ee ey Ce ee ee ee hee Se hel hd a Ce ee ee ee el he he ae LL) Se Se lS SG A i ee hl de Sd kak i alt el a i ee ee ae ee he Eh ee he ee Le Le ee be lt at ar ae he ha ha Ra Re ae Tal ee ee ed i ee hee he het he he are a ee ee ee ee Oe ee ee A N N U A L R E P O R T 17 9 5 Q TOTAL AVERAGE ATeADAN are, a 1949 1950 i i. 42.61% Ty Pe KS say, 66% Fe SeoSsessesssorr @eccesccocccsoeeh =F eeoevaeeeves eeeeaceed AA) AAA es CP ed ceePeeseccccosoces§ Feo eececeoeeosesee see @ | Co Moo vesceresesces eee eee Ce ee eee ee Oe | ee ef ed ee ee ee 2 ee ) eoereeneeeo eo geeseasese eoconsncccvoesebosocceccescaccoc# §j§j<-peesesceseeopPoee ee eeoee eee cc ercccoernceecccesesecccesom Fe gave vrcsereGereeeeren BOO OOOOOOOOOOIO SOO i ii) QOD a OOOO beeocvceceeespPoeseeeeed The increase in average attendance, while less than 2%, is heartening evidence that more women are receiving the benefits of the educational program. Theology continues to be the most popular course. TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1949 1950 1949 = 1950 A substantial increase in the visits to the sitk and homebound and in days care of the sick indicates greater awareness of our responsibility to alleviate human suffering. 1949 1950 NUMBER OF FUNERALS AT WHICH R. S. ASSISTED 5,383 5,449 DRESSING ONLY FOR BURIAL 365 86619 COMPLETE PREPARATION FOR BURIAL 64 ~ 65 Ce | Cr Or ne OG GO Re OR SR RM GS TG SS RR Se i ER RG Si Se a | | Ce, ee i i i i i i i i ee i i i ee a ee i i ee i ee ee i ee ee i ee ee i i i i Re eT RS | Cr i i Te i cr ee i ee Se a ee SG eS Se GG RG eS RG I OG eS I ee i Cr TS OO SR De eS TG SR See i SR SG GG OR SS SM RE OG SG SG A Se SR A TR Te Ye RD Ce ee i er i ST OO i i ee Se a SR SG i er i er i i i i i Se I I Te IG IRS Te | Sr i i Ta i i i ee ae ie ee Se ee i ee ae ie SR SS DS i a i ee a ee ne Se i ie ie ie ee ee el TT Ly io. Htt TTT Dy NAAN EY AE 1,154,763 Hrs. S Dai wna! We: 1949 1950 1949 1950 The large increase in the number of hours of sewing in proportion to the slight increase in the number of articles completed, indicates that more time and effort were required for the werk. The reduced Welfare sewing budget accounts for the general decrease in all types of budget sewing except men's clothing which was increased in the assignment. Most of the miscellaneous articles were made for sale at bazaars. ARTICLES COMPLETED FETT OTT ET ASE EEE ttt VETETVee 118,705 107,010 TTT 35,282 [136,848 Il TOOT TTT 49°50 '49°50 °49°50 RELIEF CHURCH ALL SOCIETY WELFARE OTHER a F x OTHER.. '49 vy "BEDDING 50 ( { aa Tj in 7 'a9 CHILDREN'S N OMEN'S, CLOTHING "~ =— / hiv -\, _— "CLOTHING 50 ie ION \7 MISC ef ARTICLES \ \/ ee 'a9 '50 \ CLOTHING '50. TT The TT 115,123 | 4 6,675| 6,665 wie 27,624 4 TTT 2 ar TA 25,387 5,284! ] 5,740 TT TEU yl l inn 108,502 Hh | Crot at PS. Wieeting) The number of hours of service on Church Welfare projects decreased due to fewer calis for service by women. The number of completed articles of sewing decreased due to reduced budget assignments. The increased hours of service contributed by Relief Society women receiving aid is noteworthy. BY ALL OTHER R. S$. WOMEN RECEIVING AID BY R. S. WOMEN Leb fale 19 1950 esd. Hlceling. FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE The increase in the number of women receiving aid who worked on Church Welfare projects, who sewed for themselves, and at work meetings, indicates progress toward attaining the Church Welfare goal—to earn what one receives. A larger increase in the number of follow-up visits in proportion to the increased number of initial visits indicates a growing sense of responsibility in minstering to the needy. VISITS TO FAMILIES Ee 2 NUMBER OF WOMEN VISITED WHO: sc 17,526 3 ——— tatetes: v Boar #914120 2 |: FOLLOW-:: ESFOLLOWeE: UP: = BE UP EE VISITS 32 Ps 0 a | 3 2: e: 3 A} 3 he = a -— = | = ~ "INITIAL "9 49° 50 3s a9 50 49 50 '49 °50 ovinanTisn at aio ORD. Ue WORKED ON SEWED SEWED FOR CHURCH WELFARE PROJECTS EXAT WORK. THEMSELVES pet —_ CLUSIVE OF WORK MEETINGS AND FAMILY MEETING SEWING a a a a PS SS SS Fame e tee et ote ee ete ew eee tw ee eo wa ae ae et at a en oO OO Oe Oe OO Oem eo 8 a oo No to ecw eie eieieal tie) a a) Sei eialeinl Sie) 21s) sel alolain alee a a ee TT i a ee ee eS RG a ie Si Se Se See he ie el aed ea aed ed Ce i er er i er ee eee ee ee Re Mette ete we ee ew ee ewe ee ow eee eee a ee eae ae ae Oe een One 0 Ve a ne el nlals 6) 2 C | o C ele ailein els ele lalrie) oie! Sa) ei altlo tie) s ain lalaneheneienetennt ela) a) = tates eeinaeneie tote la = ten act an a ad hd al ld a a a a a a eI PL LSS LI OL GS ES SO SRC SL SR IRN Sih a SUSE Sin tl aS ae ih ihe gob dak ca gL gg di SL SL IC IG SL JS St DPS PC ey Ce eS Pea i a ae ae Thee ied i hel hale he ad kal Ss a A SP I EE I SE PSII CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS 79,824, O17. $ 676,496.63 fod (asi PesTIT CASH BALANCE = JAN. 1 1950 mete f EEN S22) SAN ay CAREC an $ 860,583.43 CASH RECEIPTS i = 2 22h x AAA bai RS —Ur ES x.~ W yy SN} SQ $422.912.22 & Pg hititits <= WHEAT FUND st 4G Ser Nearer] 'i TRETTTT Mu OPERATING; we*sFesccae $ 114,929.62 EXPENSES AN NONOS Reh g 1,352.72 Gg $116,504.94 ACCOUNTS REAL ESTATE a PAYABLE SSF TTSTSEREE FIST TS sssststts SEAR SE A Oa ne SESS IMTS STH RA ENN Tseszez AAA ISS ISS A EAA $ 508,010.48 FURNITURE $824,272.67 CASH $ 124,579.79 ee - OTHER ASSETS #53 The total amount of the Building Fund held in trust by the general board as of Deember 31, 1950 was $569,654.58, representing contributions of $561,713.82, interest for the four-year period: of $6,743.76, and sales of $1,197.00 from the book "Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business"'. 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1949-50 (Continued) 1950 1949 Changes 1949 to 1950 Number Number Number Per or Amount | or Amount | or Amount Cent Number of Hours Given in Sewing 1,249,613 1,154,763 -+94,850 +8.21 Articles Completed 189,041 187,383 +1,658 +.88 For Relief Society 118,705 107,010 +11,695 +10.93 For Church Welfare 33,488 45,091 —11,603} —25.73 For All Others 36,848 35,282 +1,566 +4.44 Kind of Articles Quilts 15,123 15,771 —648 —4.11 Other Bedding 6,665 6,675 —10 —.15 Children's Clothing 27,624 32,944 —5,320 —16.15 Women's Clothing 25,387 26,262 —875 —3.33 Men's Clothing 5,740 5,284 +456 -+8.63 Other (Miscellaneous) 108,502 100,447 -+8,055 --+8.02 = a isits to Sick and Homebound 182,358 155,927 26,431 16.95 Number of Days Care of Sick 21,640 16,282 Mra 32.9] ACTIVITIES Bodies Prepared for Burial 684 629 +55 -8.74 (Continued) Complete. Preparation 65 64 +1 1.56 Dressing Only 619 565 54 9.56 No. Funerals at Which R. S. Assisted 5,449 5,383 66 1.23 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (In addition to 33,488 Articles Completed at Relief Society Work Meetings) Hours Church Welfare Projects 238,090 260,787 —22,697 —8.70 By Women Receiving Aid 47,600 45,191 +1,809 +4.00 By All Other Relief Society Women 191,090 215,596 —24,506 —11.36 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE: Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction of Bishop 7,491 7,242 +249 +3.44 Number. Of Subsequent or Follow-up Visits 17,525 14,120 +3,405 +24.11 Number Visited Who gave Service on Church Welfare Projects 1,565 1,605 —40 —2.49 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting 1,596 1,506 +90 +5.97 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 1,879 1,837 +-42 +-2.28 Number of Wards with List of Nurses 1,095 988 +107 +10.83 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 92,28145 83,44415 8,837 +10.59 Cash Receipts $860,583.43} $806,685.99) $-++-53,897.44 +-6.68. FINANCES Cash Disbursements 824,272.67, 755,660.84| -+-68,611.83 -+-9.08 Net Assets 1,998,391.72) 1,927,172.76| -+-71,218.96 -+3.69 Membership 19550 MEMBERSHIP JANUARY 1, 1950 --csccscssoscssseccosssescseseesseseceseeseessssseeestteenenensnee121,910 INCREASE | Admitted to Membership - -.-.--.-.---c-sccceeccesceeseeteeeeteneeeceeees20,430 DECREASE Removed, Resigned, or Died -----.-lc-ccecec-eceneeseeeeneeseeceeees15,790 NET INCREASE. -.---— 4,640 MEMBERSHIP DECEMBER 31, 1950. ---------cs: cessccecceecceneceneeeeeseeeneescsesece126,550 F rom The Field mn | — | Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer All material submitted for publication in this de stake and mission Relief Society presid of material for "Notes From the Field" the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. Partment should be sent through ents. See regulations governing the submittal in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Agnes Sorenson NEVADA STAKE, RUTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR April 26, 1951 Left to tight: Second Counselor Vera Rushton; First Counsel President Agnes Sorenson; work meeting leader Ida May Probert. The photograph represents only a small part of the many beautiful articles displayed and sold at this bazaar. A food and candy sale was held at the same time. He project was very successful in a monetary sense, as well as demonstrating the fine co-operation of Relief Society women. Marietta Call is president of Nevada Stake Relief Society, or Grace Douglas; Page 619 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Mary L. Henrie DESERET STAKE (UTAH), DESERET WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Lucy Cahoon; Zada Dewsnup; Stella Black; Eliza Cropper; Hattie Cahoon; Myrtle Western, visiting teacher message leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Mabel Theobald; Mable Black; Bernell Baker; Josephine Cahoon; Bessie Webb; Inga Black; Alice Webb; Maesa Cropper; Lucille Hales; Aletha Dewsnup; Ruth Dewsnup; Blanche Jensen; Ethel Western; Zella Moody. Myrle C. Bennett is president of Deseret Ward Relief Society. Mary L. Henrie is president of Deseret Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Drusilla B. Newman RIVERSIDE STAKE (UTAH), TWENTY-NINTH WARD HONORS FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, March, 1950 Left to right: Elizabeth Madsen; Sarah J. Harman; Mary H. Dunlop; Clare Smith; Christine H. Barker; Pearl L. Putnam; Drusilla B. Newman; Esther K. Nelson, present president. The ward Relief Society was organized in 1902, with Sister Sophia Jane McKean (now deceased) as the first president. All other former presidents attended the social honoring them for their many years of faithful service. Drusilla B. Newman is president of Riverside Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Gh Photograph submitted by Ruby G. Choate EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS WHO PRESENTED THE MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 22, 1951 Stake chorister LaPriel Wilson stands at the right, center row; stake organist Gertrude Black, second from the right; Ruby G. Choate, former stake Relief Society president, fourth from the left on the first row; Oral Hales, stake social science leader, fifth from the left, center row. Genevieve L. Anderson is the newly appointed president of East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edna H. Matheson EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, LOUISVILLE (KENTUCKY) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS HOOKED RUGS PROJECT Front row, left to right: Eva Sidous; Secretary-Treasurer Elma Burton; First Counselor Halijean Leigh; President Vanice McCracken; Edna H. Matheson, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society; Blanche Nettle; Asa Mae Dow; Claudine Belt. Second row, left to right: Laverna Erwin; Marie Johnson; Alice Erwin; LaVern Reasor; Wonda Reasor.. These Relief Society women are shown with the hooked rugs they are making for use in the Relief Society room of the new chapel soon to be built. The rugs are made from all-wool materials woven onto burlap backing.. Each woman makes a square, and the squares are then sewed together in a crisscross design to make the completed rugs. Both plaid and plain colors fit into this pattern. 622 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Bernice S. Anderson EAST RIVERSIDE STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT LUNCHEON, May 29, 1951 Left to right: Janet B. Evans (1917-25); Grace P. Backman (1925-1929); Janet T. Williams (1929-1940); Pearl W. Spear (1940-43); Mary G. Buchanan (1943-1946); Lillian H. Ferguson, present president. This luncheon commemorated thirty-four years of Relief Society service by these devoted women.: Bernice S. Anderson is president of East Riverside Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth Butler NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, THE DALLES (OREGON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 1951 Sister Gertrude Bales, District Relief Society President, is seated ninth from the front on the left side of the table, and seated next to Sister Bales is Hazel Clark, President, The Dalles Branch Relief Society. Elizabeth Butler, Secretary-Treasurer, The Dalles Branch Relief Society, reports that the organization is growing rapidly and there is a feeling of love and friendship among the sisters. Mavil A. McMurrin is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 623 Photograph submitted by Ella C. Burton GREAT LAKES MISSION, CLEVELAND (OHIO) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS BAZAAR, April 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Second Counselor Clara Price; President Alice Bigelow; First Counselor Phyllis Gillie. Back row, standing, left to nght: Secretary-Treasurer Doris Young; Anne Young; Gertrude Nelson; Fay Erickson; Helen Broadbent; Beth Price, District Relief Society President and theology teacher. Ella C. Burton is president of the Great Lakes Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mima Hainsworth PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 20, 1951 Mary Smith, stake music leader and organist, stands in the front row at the left of the organ; Vadis Ballantyne, the conductor, stands in the front row, second from the right; Mima C. Hainsworth, President of Portland Stake Relief Society, stands in the front row, ninth from the night. 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 Photograph submitted by Faymetta S. Prows MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), PIUTE INDIAN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS EXHIBIT WELFARE QUILT Ruth Levi and Elouise Pickynitt are seen holding the quilt, which was beautifully made. Relief Society meetings are held regularly at the Piute reservation, with Helen B. Rogers as president of the organization. Special classes in The Book of Mormon, health, and homemaking are conducted. The Indian sisters are eager to learn. They Own a pressure cooker and can fruits and vegetables in season. Faymetta S. Prows is president of Millard Stake Relief Society. <> All Lowly Flowers Alice Mortey Bailey They plague the gardener. His sharpened hoes Make biting war upon such ancient foes, Yet children have no hatred for these weeds. A little girl will gather ditch-bank seeds For playhouse canning, frost a mud-baked cake With whitetop, braid a daisy chain, or make Doll furniture of burdock's clinging burrs. The dandelion's golden coins are hers. A boy will run behind a tumbling thistle, Or bruise a willow's bark to make a whistle, Or ride a prancing horse of birch. His cows Are green-furred milkweed pods. He mourns when plows Tear up the moming glory's twisted thatch, Or topple low a blazing sunflower patch. He'll lose a Sherwood Forest's mystic shade When greasewood falls beneath his father's blade. Ignoble parasites and lowly flowers Are friends of childhood's long and sun-filled hours. How to Make Continuous Bias Eva Ricks The strip of cloth out of which the bias strips are to be cut should be twice as long as it is wide, folded to the square (or two square pieces laid right sides together can be used). On the wrong side stitch % inch in from edge on all raw edges. (See Figure 1.) Next mark a line from one comer to the opposite corner diagonally. Clip the corners at each end of this line to indicate which side will have been cut. Cut along this line through top layer (only) of the square. (See Figure 2.) Turn square over and mark a line diagonally from one unclipped corner to the opposite comer. Cut along this line through top layer (only) of the square. (See Figure 3.) feos ee eee N, Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Open up the cloth, and you will have a continuous piece of bias one-half as wide as the original square. Mark along one end spaces the same width you wish your bias stip to be. Make corresponding marks about two-thirds of the way across the material. Draw a line connecting these marks. Cut along these lines through both thicknesses of the material. (See Figure 4.) Spread out material with uncut part on top and mark from the first line of one cut to the second line of the cut opposite. (This is important, otherwise you will have rings instead of one continuous strip.) Then cut along these lines. (See Figure 5.) Trim ends to proper width. — - wt eee = adel - we Bee ea <= 7 ee —— mn ot, =a wwe mw eee mn et eee me -— ewe ey wren Figure 4 Figure 5 Page 625 LESSON L E|DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 3—The Migration Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 1-7.) For Tuesday, December 4, 1951 Objective: To strive to understand and comprehend the kind of faith exemplified by the brother of Jared, and cultivate it in our own lives. [N the analysis of the structure of The Book of Mormon, given in the first lesson, it was pointed out that Moroni gave us an abridged history of the Jaredite 'nation, which probably flourished upon this continent from about 2240 B. C. Until after the arrival of the Nephites under the leadership of Lehi. <A brief account of Coriantumr (of whom it says, speaking of the Jaredite nation "and every soul should be destroyed save it were Coriantumr," Ether 13:21) is given in The Book of Omni by the prophet Amaleki. And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was a large stone brought unto him with engravings on it; and he did interpret the engravings by the gift and power of God. And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and the slain of his people. And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons. It also spake a few words concerning his fathers. And his first parents came out from the tower, at the time the Page 626 Lord confounded the language of the people; and the severity of the Lord fell upon them according to his judgments, which are just; and their bones lay scattered in the land northward (Omni 1:20-22). Let us now turn our attention to the rise, the decline, and the fall of this mighty nation. A study of Moroni's account of this period of history on the North American Continent, as contained in The Book of Ether, should be a fruitful source of inspiration and knowledge, for Moroni devoted much of his space to an interpretation of the history he records. Moroni began his history at the time of the confusion of tongues at the tower of Babel, though the twenty-four gold plates contained an account of events back to the creation. 'The beginning of his narrative is closely articulated with the Biblical narrative of the scattering of the people who were building the tower of Babel. LESSON DEPARTMENT Concerning this event, Moses wrote, as recorded in the Old Testament: And this whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter. And _ they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men had builded. And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city. Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the Lord did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth (Genesis 11:1-9; see also JOsEPHUS: Antiquities of the Jews, Book I, chapter 5). Moroni, in The Book of Ether, gives a historical narrative of one group of these people whom the Lord scattered abroad. The history of their civilization in America, covering a period of at least sixteen hundred years, is incomplete. To recount in detail the history of a nation over such an extended period of time in the restricted space used by Moroni is impossible. Interesting details were necessarily eliminated. Only the highlights were given. Moroni says that he 627 did not write a hundredth part of what was on the twenty-four gold plates. Cognizant. That we shall have many unanswered questions because of the brevity of the history, let us go forward with Moroni's account. 'The colony which left the tower of Babel in the Euphrates Valley under the leadership of Jared and his brother, Moriancumer, was small. A census, taken soon after they arrived in the land of promise, gives us our clue to the number of persons involved. Before _ their death the two brothers, leaders of the colony, called together all the people whom they had brought to the land of promise. They did this for the purpose of taking a census and of learning the desires of the people. The brother of Jared had twenty-two sons and daughters, thus making a family of twentyfour. Jared had four sons and eight daughters, a family total of fourteen. "And the friends of Jared and his brother were in number about twenty and two souls; and they also begat sons and daughters before they came to the promised land; and therefore they began to be many" (Ether 6:16). These figures indicate that it was not a large group that migrated from the tower of Babel to the promised land. 'This little colony, however, grew to great numbers. Perhaps the most prominent member of this small group was Mahonri Moriancumer, known in the record as the brother of Jared. He is described as "a large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord" (Ether 1:34). That he was a prominent leader is evident from the fact that their 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 first period of encampment for an extended period of time was named after him. Moreover, it was his son Pagag, who was the first choice of the people for their king after their arrival in the land of promise. There can be no question about the brother of Jared's ability as a great leader. How highly he was favored of the Lord is indicated by the fact that Jared relied upon him for instructions from the Lord. He was the spiritual adviser to the colony. Again and again in the record, Jared sent his brother to commune with the Lord, in order that they might make wise decisions. "Cry unto the Lord"; "Go and inquire of the Lord"—these are appeals made by Jared to his brother. _ The strength of the brother of Jared's position before the Lord is explicitly set forth by Moroni. His faith was strong enough to bring him the glorious privilege of seeing the Lord (Ether 3:6-16). No man ever exercised greater faith in God than did the brother of Jared. Moroni explains that on one occasion he "said unto the mountain Zerin, KRemove—and it was removed" (Iither 12:30). When the brother of Jared presented a problem to the Lord, he knew in his heart that an answer would be forthcoming. There was no doubt. There was no fear concerning the result. He knew as we know that fear and faith cannot walk together. Fear kills faith; faith kills fear., At a later period of time James gave us a Classic exposition of the attitude necessary for effective communion with God. Wrote James: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord (James 1:5-7). Faith, the brother of Jared's basic characteristic, is exemplified in all the leading activities of his life. He asked the Lord not to confound the tongues of his group and the petition was granted. He requested the Lord's help in directing their journey, and the Lord told him he would meet him in the valley of Nimrod, which was northward, and would guide the little colony "into a land which is choice above all other lands of the earth" (Ether 1:42). And the Lord said: And there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise up unto me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with thee, a great nation. And there shall be none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face of the earth (Ether 1:43). The brother of Jared was among those choice souls who were chosen in their pre-existent state to accomplish a great mission in this life. Abraham, commenting on the fact that certain men were chosen to head great movements before they were born, wrote: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these were many of the noble and great ones; and God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born (Abraham 3:22, 23). LESSON DEPARTMENT The brother of Jared was one of those great souls who do not find it difficult to exercise implicit faith in the divine Being who upholds and maintains the universe. We are also told by Moroni of the brother of Jared's greatness in writing when he [Moroni] said to the Lord: Behold, thou hast not made us mighty in writing like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest him that the things which he wrote were mighty even as thou art, unto the overpowering of man to read them (Ether 12:24). To strive to understand and comprehend the kind of faith exemplified by the brother of Jared, to project oneself into his life's activities by reading The Book of Ether "with a sincere heart, with real in- 629 tent, having faith in Christ" will increase our faith and our desire to cultivate within ourselves the qualities that made this man so great. Suggested Readings The Book of Genesis from the beginning to chapter 11, verse 9. 'These chapters relate the history of the world up to the time that the Jaredites left Babel to journey to the promised land. Questions for Discussion 1. From what two original sources do we learn about the Jaredites? | 2. What is the basic characteristic of the brother of Jared? _ Illustrate. 3. Were the Jaredites the only colony scattered from the tower of Babel? 4. What is one of the requirements of establishing communion with God? Illustrate in the life of the brcther of Jared. (siting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 3—"Feast Upon the Words of Christ; for Behold, the Words of Christ Will Tell You All Things What Ye Should Do" (II Nephi 32:3). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 4, 1951 Objective: To emphasize that in the words of our Savior we have the perfect pattern of life. HE world is indeed sick! We all sadly acknowledge this fact, but do we realize that a cure is within reach of all? Truly, the instructions of our Savior, if followed, would heal all the woes of the world. Sometimes we see the cure take effect in individual lives. Our missionaries see it many times, and it is marvelous and inspiring to behold. When the import of Christ's words penetrates deeply into the hearts of men and women, they remold their lives to conform, in a measure, to this pattern. We are not left alone, in this mortal state, to search blindly for the right. There is no lack of instruction, for we have been given ample guidance by our Savior. 'The words of Christ are a perfect guide to the abuandant life. And so it is 630 not for lack of counsel that man is bowed down with sorrow and misery, but rather because of his waywardness, his perverseness, and disobedience to Christ's counsel. Typical of his words are these: And why beholdest thou the mote in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? (Matt. 7:3) Behold I am the law, and the light. Look unto me, and endure to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the end will I give eternal life. Behold I have given unto you the commandments; therefore keep my com- - mandments (3 Nephi 15:9). It was Nephi who said, "Feast upon the words of Christ." 'The word "feast" is a very expressive word. It implies that we relish his words, that we partake of them with eagerness and with joy. The attitude in which we approach and ponder his words is also very important, for it determines how deepRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 195] ly his words will sink into our hearts, how persistently we will carty them out. If we feast upon his words we will go to them time and time again; we will digest them thoroughly; we will linger over them; we will accept them with open hearts and contrite spirits. And by the spirit of the Holy Ghost says Nephi, we may understand his words, We have all that is necessary to bring peace and tranquility to the world. We have the knowledge out of which we can make eternal happiness. But the possession of this knowledge alone cannot give us the happiness we desire. Only when that knowledge has application in our lives does it bring the desired result., During the approaching Christmas season and throughout the new year, we can do nothing which will more appropriately honor our Savior, than feasting upon his words and obeying them. Work ITleeting—Sewing Tue Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Strengthening Ready-Mades Jean Ridges Jennings _For Tuesday, December 11, 1951 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) HEN clothes are purchased ready-made from the stores, there are sometimes weak spots in their make-up. For one reason or another they are not always as carefully constructed as they might be. Very often there is much that can be done very easily to add to their appearance and wearability. It is wise to check over clothes and LESSON DEPARTMENT household textiles before using them to see if there are places that need strengthening. A few wellplaced stitches can save much patching later on and help you get the most out of what you buy. Sometimes inexpensive garments are made of attractive and good materials, but the construction is inferior. Check over the stitching to determine whether or not it is even and strong. Rip out and replace any broken, drawn, or crooked stitching. Where seams are too narrow to be secure, stitch them a bit deeper, so they will hold. If the material shows a tendency to fray, finish the edges of seams by overcasting or turning under and stitching them. Hems are another vulnerable spot on ready-to-wear clothes. As a rule they are loosely sewed and _insecure. In such cases re-hem with firm stitches and good thread, thus avoiding the possibility of being embarrassed by a drooping hem. Finish off all dangling threads securely, either by tieing them or threading them into a needle and fastening them with a few stitches. After this is done cut them off close to the cloth. Check all bindings, making sure that all bound edges are made to hold. If the binding is sewed too close to the edge, rip it and move the binding in a little deeper, then restitch. This may save a big mending job later. Nothing is more annoying than a pocket corner torn away from the dress or to have the dress, too, torn. It happens frequently, even on wellmade garments. Strengthen all pocket corners to keep them from 631 tearing. Dress and apron pockets and those on children's clothes must be more sturdy. Lay a piece of tape on the underside and stitch it in with the corners. Rework weak buttonholes with a buttonhole stitch. Resew loose buttons with a strong thread, to make sure that one or more won't come loose and be lost. Resew snaps or hooks and eyes neatly and securely. Use thread that matches the material both in color and weight. Use silk thread for light-weight rayons and silks. Otherwise use heavy-duty mercerized thread. Too heavy thread will tear cloth. When knitted garments are purchased, it is wise to check all seam lines for reinforcement. On shoulder lines, at the back of the neck, on curved underarm seams, and back skirt seams sew seam tape for added strength. Merely lay the tape along the seam line and sew it in with the seam stitching. It is wise to check over household linens before they are put into service. A few well-placed stitches. Can stretch out their usefulness many times. Machine stitch or overhand the open ends of hems on sheets and bath towels to give them added strength. Reinforcing the edges of terry towels is another job that pays dividends in added service. When they do not have hems or selvages, strengthen the sides with a row or two of machine stitching. These are but a few of the precautions that may be taken to add life to ready-made articles that are commonly purchased. In an ex change of ideas among homemakers many more may be added. ol iterature— The Literature of England Lesson 19—Two Other Pre-Romantic Poets: Thomas Gray and William Cowper Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 18, 1951 Thomas Gray (1716-1771) HOMAS GRAY was born in London in 1716 to a poor father who neglected him, and to a mother who kept shop that he might have the education of a gentleman's son. At Eton and Cambridge he was steeped in the classics, which he loved throughout his life. Here he began lifelong friendships with other cultivated youths, such as Horace Walpole, fourth Earl of Orford, with whom he made an extended tour of the Continent in 1739-41. Upon his return, Gray continued perfecting himself as a scholar at Cambridge, and published occasional verses which revealed how completely he was in accord with the teachings of Pope and the neoclassical school. After six years of exacting revision and polishing, he published his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard," his best work, and the most famous prteromantic poem of the century. His later poems, notably "The Bard" and "The Fatal Sisters," reveal a strong interest in the ancient myths and legends of Ireland, Wales, and Scandinavia. Throughout his lifetime, Gray dabbled in verse as a cultivated hobby, in much the same spirit as he wrote an immense volume of letters to his friends. His real concern was to prepare himself to teach at Cambridge, where he lived Page 632 eS W = x Y =. WY = \ aaa =I Z = Hi BA VA ree, at N = om \\\, = y PSN xy ae fi: i. AY hd Ht "df, Ii} f Pipl yi a fi 5 Z nia Fd 0 pss! Aa + Wy. ¢ Ce, rc Gig' Bier SB% a { 22 ef Z yy a t aS 1 = 4 t THOMAS GRAY throughout his mature years. 'Thus it was that Gray was one of the best-read of English poets, having read thoroughly in the literatures of Greece and Rome, the great English writers, and Nordic legend and history. Since he was an extremely shy man who never married and had but few acquaintances, it is but natural that much of his world of reality was contained in books and a sense of the past. In training and environment his life was one of cultivation, studied care, and classical discipline, all of which served to bind him to the neo-classical LESSON DEPARTMENT school of thought. Finally, after the long years of such preparation, he was granted a Cambridge professorship. He had held the post for only a few years when he was advised to travel for the sake of his health, which had always been delicate, but it was of no avail. He died in 1771 at the age of fifty-five and was buried next his mother in the churchyard of Stokes Poges, doubtless the scene of his "Elegy." One might well wonder how, with such training, friends, and a classically disciplined taste, Gray could ever be classed as a romantic. After a careful reading of his "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West" which begins In vain to me the smiling mornings shine, And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire; The birds in vain their amorous descant join; Or cheerful fields resume their green attire (text, page 49) it seems incredible that, with 'his rigid form, such classical allusions as Phoebus rather than sun, and so unfeeling and artificial a line as the third, Gray could ever exhibit the unrestrained emotion commonly associated with romanticism. The truth is that, while exactness of form and word remained paramount to Gray throughout his life, the tone of his work became increasingly romantic. In 1742, the same year in which the above sonnet was written, Gray also wrote "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College," which from its first lines Ye distant spires, ye antique towers, That crown the watery glade, 633 Where grateful Science still adores Her Henry's holy shade... (text, page 48) appears and sounds rigidly classical. Yet the poem proceeds to contrast the happy student surrounded by benevolent nature with his inevitable future sufferings caused by man's worldly passions. Yet see how all around 'em wait The ministers of human Fate, And black Misfortune's baleful train! Ah, show them where in ambush stand, To seize their prey, the murtherous band! Ah, tell them they are men! (text, page 48, lines 55-60) Yet ah! Why should they know their fate? Since sorrow never comes too late, And happiness too swiftly flies, Thought would destroy their paradise. No more; where ignorance is bliss, "Tis folly to be wise. (text, page 49, lines 95-100) In his letters, too, we find attitudes characteristic of the growing romantic movement. In a letter from Turin, Italy, in 1739, he is enthralled by the grandeur of nature, an emotion most rare at so early a date. He writes that I do not remember to have gone ten paces without an exclamation, that there was no restraining: not a precipice, not a torrent, not a cliff, but is pregnant with religion and poetry. (text, page 1, line 20 ff.) The letter following explains his minute interest in ancient Roman ruins at the base of Vesuvius, while the final letter (page 64) tells of the accumulating evidence which should cause him to believe that Macpherson really was the author of Ossian, and yet how he cannot help believing that Ossian is actually 634 the work of some noble bard of ancient Scotland (see text, page 7). Of his own attempts at ancient Nordic poetry, he says, "I am gone mad about them" (page 65). That his madness is conveyed to the poems themselves is everywhere evident in "The Bard" (page 55) and "The Fatal Sisters" (page 58), in which romantic scenery, vivid dramatic action and tone, and gruesome horror comprise the essence. Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" has successfully created within itself the universal concern with death: how death wastes with lavish hand whatever talent or future the ordinary man might have had, and consigns him to remain unsung among mortals, and soon forgotten. While the poem's flawless phrasing and unbroken harmony of tone and form have made its memorable lines some of the most quotable in the language, it is the mood of haunting melancholy, and the tender concern for the common man living the simple life next to nature that give emotional body and weight to Gray's carefully studied art of expression. Like Collins, his solemn mood of shadows and dusk is created and sustained by skilled use of word-sound: The curfew tolls the knell of parting day, The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea, The plowman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me. (text, page so, lines 1-4). In pointing out what might have been, in contrast to the very real triumph of death, Gray uses a gentle but piercing irony which serves to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 ennoble man as he bows beneath his common fate. / Perhaps in this neglected spot is laid Some heart once pregnant with celestial fire; Hands that the rod of empire might have swayed, Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre. Full many a gem of purest ray serene The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear; Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air. (text, page 51, lines 45-48, 53-56) Again in the epitaph Gray immortalizes the dignity and resignation of men as they accept the finality of death. Thus, while in form and finish Gray's Elegy reveals his rigid classical discipline, its melancholy concern with nature, death, and the unsung virtues of the common man give it eminent place in the pre-romantic movement. William Cowper (1731-1800) (Pronounced Cooper) "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform." 'True as this statement might be of events and people, these words from one of the best-known Methodist hymns apply to the life of their author as well. Plagued by a recurring insanity which engulfed him at least four times during the last forty-five years of his life, Cowper became one of the greatest of English hymn-writers, a writer of letters which have become famous as a revelation of a frank, tortured soul, and a preromantic poet who during the last two decades of the eighteenth century enjoyed a wide following. LESSON DEPARTMENT Cowper was never very close to his father, a country minister, but though his mother died when Cowper was six years old, she influenced him so profoundly that she became one of the guiding forces of his life. An extremely delicate, sensitive child, Cowper feared his bullying classmates and most everyone else. He was a distinguished scholar, and was admitted to the bar, but never practiced. A quiet government position was offered him, but when he discovered that he must take a competitive examination, he worried himself into his first attack of insanity. Upon his release two years later, Cowper was taken in by the Unwins, a rural clergyman and wife. After her husband's death, Mrs. Unwin became Cowper's greatest friend, and encouraged him to write during his long years of seclusion in the country. At one time they considered marriage, but Cowper's illness recurred. Soon after her death in 1796 Cowper became permanently insane and died four years later. Even though Cowper's insanity was aggravated by his horrifying conviction that he had somehow committed the unpardonable sin, his devout religious belief was the keystone of his life. Despair, or resentment, or a desire for pity, seem farthest from his heart; instead we find in Cowper a humane kindness, a gentle, constant gratitude for those who have brought him love and kindness, as well as a concern about all injustice and cruelty. His steadying sincerity is also apparent in his praise of the rural virtues, and in the healing influence he feels while 635 WILLIAM COWPER performing daily, simple tasks in the presence of nature. With an inner serenity that is pure in its innocence, and yet tinged by the tragedy of an unknown tomorrow, Cowper asked only that he might be able to relinquish the city's temptations of glitter and wealth to allow his worship of God to reign supreme: The dearest idol I have known, Whate'er that idol be, Help me to tear it from Thy throne, And worship only Thee. So shall my walk be close with God, Calm and serene my frame; So purer light shall mark the road. That leads me to the Lamb. ("Walking with God," page 75, verses 5 and 6) Cowper is not one of our greatest writers, but in his poems we come to know a sweet spirit whom we can love, even as he loved others. His descriptions of nature (""The Task," pp. 76-77) are nostalgic, sincere, and 636 mellowed; his condemnation of London as a modern Babylon, his indignation at a world which practices slavery rather than brotherhood, accurately voice the growing romantic indignation at these evils, but the fire and scope of a great imaginative mind are not here. However, the final excerpt from "The Task," beginning I was a stricken deer that left the herd Long since; with many an arrow deep infixed My panting side was charged, when I withdrew | To seek a tranquil death in distant shades. (text, from Book III, "The Garden," page 79) contains somewhat of the personal note which enriches the remaining selections in our text, particularly "The Castaway" (page 82), which makes a genuinely powerful comparison between Cowper's own uncontains somewhat of the personal selections in our text, particularly he knows he can never be rescued. No voice divine the storm allayed, No light propitious shone, When, snatched from all effectual aid, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 We perished, each alone: But I beneath a rougher sea, And whelmed in deeper gulfs than he. (text, page 83, lines 61-65) The tragedy and mystery of life are strong in Cowper; his own bewilderment at life's illogical offering, in turn, bewilders us. But even more we remember him for the more characteristic serenity he achieved amid the tranquil beauties of nature; his condemnation of the growing evils stemming from city and factory; and the all-encompassing love he felt for God and those near him during his troubled existence. Note to Class Leaders It is suggested that one or two hymns of Cowper's might be selected as songs for the meeting, such as "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." Questions for Discussion 1. How is Gray's classical training revealed in his writings? 2. Discuss some of the romantic elements of his "Elegy." Why has it enjoyed so universal a popularity? 3. Why is Cowper considered a preromantic poet? 4. How do his writings reveal his awareness of his insanity? ITlusic— Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 11—Increased Proficiency in Conducting and Hymn Singing Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To improve hymn singing through more effective conducting. "The best days of the church have always been its singing days" (Cuyler). The Four-four (4/4) Baton Pattern (a) Learn and practice the 4/4 baton pattern in the textbook, page 11. Thm, beats one and three. (b) There are two accents in this rhyBeat one is strong and decisive; beat three is weak LESSON DEPARTMENT and about half as strong as beat one. (c) All even rhythms in which the upper figure is 4 are conducted with the 4/4 baton pattern, such as: 4/1, 4/2, 4/4, 4/8, 4/16, or, when this rhythm is represented with a large letter C. If the C appears with a vertical line drawn through it, and there are four half notes in a measure, or their equivalent, it is called long Alle Breve rhythm and is conducted with the same 4/4 pattern. (d) Practice this rhythm in large (maximum), medium (ordinary), and small (minimum) patterns. 1. The baton pattern retains its original characteristic shape whether or not it is used in large, medium, or small size. 2. Use the large pattern when conducting a chorus or congregation of considerable size singing in full volume. Hymns like the following require this pattern: "Onward Christian Soldiers," starts with beat one (down beat). "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," starts with beat four (up beat). To make the large pattern use the arm fully. 3. Apply the medium pattern to songs that are to be sung in moderate volume, such as the following: "There Is Beauty All Around," starts with beat one (down beat). "Redeemer of Israel," starts with beat four (up beat). | For the medium pattern use the forearm. 4. Conduct with the small pattern songs, or parts of songs, that are to be sung with minimum volume. Examples: "Hushed Was the Evening Hymn," (New) Hymns, starts with beat one (down beat). "We Ever Pray for Thee,'' starts with beat one (down beat). For the small pattern use the forearm closer to the body with gentle motions of the baton, or, use the wrist with slight gestures. 5- The large, medium, and small patterns are frequently used interchangeably 637° in a composition according to the necessary graduation of volume, or in keeping with the character of the musical selection. Examples: "Glory to God in the Highest," (New) Hymns. "I Know That My Redeemer Lives." 6. In an art song, particularly, the conductor must constantly make changes in the volume to produce the desired effects in interpretation, Therefore, the three sizes of the pattern may be used alternately in one composition. (e) Practice the 4/4 baton pattern in hymns of your own choice, applying the large, medium, and small baton patterns. (1) Observe the natural accents of the thythm. (2) Conduct gracefully and with meaning. The point of the baton should lead in making all of the baton patterns. (f) The characteristic qualities of the 4/4 rhythm are: majestic, dynamic, motivating, devotional. Examples are: "Arise, O Glorious Zion" "Oh Beautiful for Spacious Skies" "The Hallelujah Chorus" "Worthy Is the Lamb" (The last two numbers from the oratorio The Messiah, by Handel). The conductor should avoid pressing any part of the arm against the body when conducting.. The arm should be relaxed and pliable, and the elbows should not be extended upward or outward unnecessarily, Expression in Hymn Singing (a) It will be noted that the hymns regularly appear without expression marks. In most instances just the tempos are indicated. While it is recognized that the hymn is to be sung as a free vocal expression of the congregation and that, pumarily, it is not to be considered as an art song; nevertheless, it is essential that the full intent of the word message shall be expressed. This makes it necessary for the conductor to assume the responsibility of choosing and suggesting the needed expressions. However, cau- 638 tion should be exercised in the liberties Questions and Suggestions for Discussion thus taken. (b) The words of the text generally 1. Describe the 4/4 baton pattern. Suggest how they should be expressed. (c) Hymns in which it has traditional to make variations are: "America" (fourth stanza) "The Lord Is My Shepherd" "Come Unto Jesus" — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 2. Discuss the necessity of the three types. 3. What are the characteristics of 4/4 thythm? 4. How may hymn singing be. Improved? Become o=}P-o Ue Good eas: for Work Meeting Luncheons | 1 c. Elbow macaroni 1 c. Cream 1 c. Soft bread crumbs % oc. Butter 1 c. Grated American cheese 3 Cggs Macaron! Loar Christine Eaton tbsp. Chopped green pepper tbsp. Chopped parsley tsp. Onion juice tsp. Salt tbsp. Chopped pimiento a ee ee Cook macaroni in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and rinse in cold water. Scald the cream and add bread crumbs, butter, seasoning, beaten eggs, and cheese. Bake in moderate oven (325°) one half hour. Serve with tomatoes or mushroom sauce. Mushroom soup may be used for the sauce by thickening with a little butter, browned flour, and cream. Serves about 8. 4 @ a q Lying in the Sun Christie Lund Coles What am I doing lying here? Nothing, I must say, Except absorbing leaf and bough Of a cloudless day; Watching skies as delicate As a harebell's cup, Hearing birds and strum of becs, Reaching, reaching up To all the peace the heart attains, Silent and alone, Lying on a patch of earth When autumn is full-blown. DWARF IRIS Dwarf Iris (Continued from page 593) I wish I were right back there now." Dora's heart had given a lurch, and how she wished that she were back there, too. Kaleidoscope. When the pieces stopped moving, there was the old house, their tall, frame house, warm, inviting, beckoning, with a promise of peace. It was home. Could they get their money out of this new place? Surely somebody would want it! She went to the telephone. 'The busy signal again! No place could be that busy. But the buzz, buzz persisted until she broke the conection. Never mind, she would go to the office and talk to the agent face to face. GHE removed the pink-flowered house dress and donned her good two-piece black, and hurried along the street to the bus stop, blind to the few blossoming boughs braving the cold wind. The elevator whisked her upward in the big office building. "I want to see Mr. Pearson," Dora told the dark-haired girl typing in the outer office. It was Mr. Pearson who arranged the details before. "I'm sorry, he's out now. Is there anything I can do?" "It's about this house.' Dora turned the paper to show the advertisement. "I want to buy it." The girl frowned at the box ad. "That's our ad, but I think this house has been sold." "No!" Dora clutched the paper to her. It couldn't be. Tears gathered, and she groped for the nearest It was like a 639° Beautiful Rehef Society Chorus Music i By the Waters of Babylon— Howell 16 a. Come Unto Him—Handel _.15 = If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen.20 _ Like As the Hart Desireth the Water—Brooks-McFarland —.16 —_ O Lord Most Merciful—Wilson_.12 a Peace I Leave With You— Roberts. Wb Ss Praise Ye the Paitier"Gouned 10 _—_ Voice in the Wilderness—Scott.18 Music Sent On Approval 'WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. 0) On Approval ([] Charge Money Enclosed vi & State er PIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Day ings- 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Vo SALT LAKE CITV 1, UTAH 640 STUDY in a healthy, home environment. Opportunities and benefits that can be equalled nowhere else are offered at your. State University. For full information write... OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY of UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah chair. It's choked. "Perhaps I'm mistaken," the girl soothed, "or maybe Mr. Pearson can find something else for you." "There is nothing else—no other house will do." "Tl look it up," the girl offered, but shook her head over a file drawer. "I'm sorry, but that house. Was sold this morning." Dora stumbled to the door. "Do... Do you think it's final? Do people ever change their minds?" "Not very often these days." 'The gitl's smile was sympathetic. Dora, nodding, reached under her glasses to wipe her eyes. "Thank you," she managed brokenly. Her house was gone, her big, dear, shabby house that was filled with a thousand memories. She'd just go by the house and take one long, last. It's my home," she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 look, she decided, as she came out of the building. UP this street, turn here. Why, the plum tree was showing white blossoms! So early. Shades were drawn, and she followed the narrow walk around to the back. The porch needed paint, the lawn was shabby. What about the iris bed? For the first time she noticed a tall man working over the dwarf iris, now flaunting their blue above the brown grass. "T'm sorry I didn't mean I was just looking. This used to be my home," she apologized. The man arose, and she found herself staring incredulously into her husband's face. _ "This is where the iris came from!" she cried. "Yes. 'They needed weeding. I kinda hated to see them choked out. Since nobody lives here." "They will tomorrow," she interrupted harshly. "It's sold. The girl at the real estate office told me." "You asked? Do you care if it is sold?" "Of course, I care. It's home. Home! Don't you understand? I've never been happy a moment since we left." "But the other place is newer. There's lots of work here." "Work is what makes a home," she began, then broke off to demand: "Did you think of buying it back, too?" | Sheepishly, he nodded. | "We can't." She clung to his sleeve. "Someone bought it this morning." He patted her shoulder with a grubby hand. "I did." 641 For Keeps (Continued from page 589) posite of Paul, and all the more attractive because of that. He was in insurance and real estate, he told her as they flashed along the highway toward Kingston. He had a small office downtown and was making out quite well. "And it's about time," he added. "T'm thirty-three, plus." He turned in his seat. "Now, I've told my life story. What about you? Do you live with your sister?" "Yes, for now." 'Then, disregarding Emily's caution, "I'm between jobs. I'm a children's nurse." She saw a surprised look on the face he turned again to her. "You are? You take care of sick children?" "Well, sometimes. Perhaps, governess would be the old-fashioned word for it. I take care of children who need it, whatever the reason." He was silent for a moment. Then, "You know, that explains it. I thought you seemed sort of serious-minded." He grinned. "You A ROEBUCK AND CO. J Quilting Batts— 72x90-in. Size. 2 pounds of 25% wool and 75% cotton. 50% Cotton Batts QUILTING BATTS Beautiful Quilts Made Today are Tomorrow's Treasures. Uality quilting batts made of terilamp-treated with powerful germ-killing, ultra-violet rays. 72x90-in. 50% Yee. DS. 29 ot your monsy back MAIN OR STATE AT 8TH SOUTH DIAL 5-6651 PARK FREE Hours: 9:30 a. M. To 6 p. M.—Fridays Until 9 642 uchool * supplies Aritsts' and Draftsmen's Needs Drafting sets as low as $2.95 T-squares, triangles, protractors, student and professional grades Drawing boards $3.05 to $22.95 with the straight edge Art Supplies for grade schools and professionals R Since 1883 C Stationery, Gifts and Office Supplies 24 East Broadway Salt Lake City 1, Utah Dial 4-8424 PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy acThe Deseret News Press 40 Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah cess permanently bound. — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 seem to be trying so hard to have a good time." Laurie flushed laughingly. "Was it so apparent? I thought I had hidden my real self." He shifted his hands on the wheel and turned out for an approaching car. "I wonder," he asked seriously, "do we ever know our real selves?" 'Then he smiled. "Do you like to square dance?" "T don't know. I've watched, but I've never tried." "We'll try it tonight. It's fun." It was fun. Jack seemed to lose his slight tinge of bashfulness. Laurie was glad she'd taken Emily's advice and worn her new daffodil cotton with the full skirt. When, finally, they stopped for breath, Jack laughed. "Now, I know your real self. You're just a kid. No wonder you like children. They're your kind." Laurie clutched his arm in breathless laughter. "Well, I thought I was grown up, but I'm not sure now. Anyway, it was fun." "We'll do it again, then. They have these dances almost every week." He was nice, Laurie reflected, and _at each date, he seemed nicer. And more serious. But she wasn't sure, ate wanted seriousness yet. VERY Saturday afternoon they went for a drive, their destination decided as they drove along. One sun-filled afternoon they chose Lookout Point. Clear and beautiful, the view from Lookout was never more entrancing. Beneath them, the city looked like the model of a home construc- _tion project, with its tiny streets FOR KEEPS and bridges, its homes each nestled in its cradle of trees. "How lovely," Laurie exclaimed, "All those homes, one doesn't realize. But looking down." Jack nodded. "You know," he said seriously, "I grew up in a wonderful home. Not a rich one, but a solid, comfortable one. I had a wonderful mother and father who really loved each other.' He smiled from the corner of his eyes. "Sounds old-fashioned, doesn't it?" "It sounds nice," Laurie said stoutly. "And there are homes like that even now, you know." "That's what I hope," he grinned suddenly. ""That's what I hope." Her heart picked up an extra beat. Not from the words so much as from his manner. It was after that, that Laurie began examining her feelings for him. She and Jack liked the same things—good. Music, the theater—even their tastes in books were much the same. But did she love him? How did one tell? Perhaps after you were thirty. She brought it up at the breakfast table the next morning after John had gone. "Jack's getting serious, Emily. And I can't make up my mind." "Hooray! He's getting serious. Isn't that what you want?" "Yes No. I don't know." Emily buttered toast silently. Then, "Well, don't make a mistake. We're running out of eligibles, you know." "Yes, I know." Laurie drank her orange juice slowly, then she wandered away from the table in an unaccountable fit of restlessness. "IT believe P'll go down to David's shop this morning," she said. "My Starts TUES., SEPT. 4 New classes starting in: @ ACCOUNTING @ GENERAL CLERICAL FIELDS @ SECRETARIAL WORK These and many other courses are. Offered in both day and evening classes. Complete placement service is available toyouat I, 1) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main 3-2765 watch needs attention, and I'd like,' too, to find out about Bobby—how he is, and if he's happy now." "Oh, forget about Bobby," Emily shrugged. "He's probably forgotten you by now. Children are that way, you know." DAviP was at the rear of the store at his repair desk. He came forward eagerly when he saw her. "Miss Nichols, how glad I am to see you. It's been months, hasn't ie" "Tt's seemed longer than that, really. How is Bobby?" "He's well," David answered slowly. "But he's taken your absence harder than either of us realized he would. Mother is having a really difficult time with him. But surely +B soon Yes, without attachments, you g can actually sew over 89 different types of stitches with the sensational ANKER ZIGPaviclieclriveee "AS Sewing Machine! LDS 7A6 Does perfect straight sewing tool ° MAKE BUTTUONF LE ¢ HEMS/ITCH -o EMBR DER C SEW BUTTONS.* BLIND TH STRAIGH SEN 4 ANKER DESK GUARAN "FED FOR A LIFETIME Williams Sewing Machine Co. 50 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Please send name and address of nearest Anker agent. Name oo. Enneeneneeeeeeeseeeeee renee Address City & State WILLIAMS Sewing Machine Co. 50 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 5-8651 Special discount to Church Organizations RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 "Surely soon," Laurie echoed. "I'd - come to see him, but I'm sure it would only make it harder for him afterwards." "Yes," he agreed. "But where are you now? At your sister's still?" "Yes. Still vacationing. But I must get back to work soon. Now, what I came to see you about. It's my watch. It's become so undependable. If it can't be repaired, Pll have to have a new one." David smiled as he watched her fumble with its fastening, then pass it over to him. "That's quite a test you're putting me to, Miss Nichols. But I will try to repair yours, I promise you." He tried to smooth down the dark cowlick of his hair. "It's a good watch. And good watches stand repairing, you know." Laurie laughed. "You see, I do know whom I can trust. When will you let me know?" "About the watch? Oh, within a day or two. I'll call you at your sister's." | "Fine. And I do hope Bobby settles down soon. He was such a happy child.". David shook his head. "TI know. I know." He was really worried, Laurie thought, as she left the store. He couldn't hide that. But there was nothing he could do about it, and neither could she. Now, she was more restless than ever. Jack was calling for her at eight—a country club dance. She wished she hadn't promised to go. When she reached home, she found Emily in the sewing room. For a moment she watched Emily's scissors snip their way around a pattern before she spoke. FOR KEEPS "I think [ll go down to an employment agency tomorrow, Emily, and look for a new place." Emily let the pattern slide to the floor. "Oh, Laurie, why do you? You're welcome here as long as you want. John and I both love to have you." LAURIE shook her head hopelessly. "I'm lonesome for Bobby, and the only cure is another child to take his place." "What about Jack?" "Tl ease him out tonight. This was nothing but a silly venture from the first—marrying a man so I could have children of my own! Oh, don't look so shocked. 'That was my underlying motive, I know it now. It's not honest, nor even decent. Especially with a man as fine as Jack." She stooped and picked up Emily's pattern. "I believe I'll try for a little girl this time, a tiny one. One I can have for a long time," she added slowly. The agency had such a place if it hadn't been filled already, she was told. 'They would check and let her know later in the day. The mother had had an attack of polio and would need help for many months, perhaps even a year. This was what she wanted, Laurie told herself over and over, wondering why she couldn't believe it. If it only worked out, she'd be out of Emily's clutches and back in a situation she knew and loved. She waited near the phone all the afternoon, willing it to ring, alternately with hoping it wouldn't. But the doorbell rang instead. Ficliof Society Wusic for the October Conference By the Waters of Babylon Come Unto Him Like As the Hart Desireth If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments O Lord Most Merciful Voice in the Wilderness If With All Your Hearts Write for favorite selections GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 7 Bee, ARROT TULIPS Tall blooming Dutch aristocrats that will produce a riot of color in your f garden next spring: @ Large, red FIREBIRD @ Salmon-rose FANTASY @ ORANGE FAVORITE R Golden-yellow SUNSHINE @ Soft, violet-BLUE 025 ete Serene: 250 | riety) only postpaid PORTER-WALTON. 550 So, 6th East, P. O. Box 1619, Salt Lake City, Utah BETTER LIGHT Makes homework easier for children BUY LAMPS AND BULBS FROM YOUR DEALER A UTAH POWER & LIGHT Go. MESSAGE "WE WOULD RATHER WAIT We tell you this — beyond a doubt— Do not weave in — do not weave out; Around the curve — don't drive _ too fast. A little more time — the longer - you'll last. Ronie J ahlear SALT LAKE MONUMENT CO. 186 N Street At the entrance to the CITY CEMETERY. When its site was 'decided on, Father selected this corner and we have grown slowly. As the Cemetery grew. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1951 It was David Kirby. "May I come in, Miss Nichols? I'm glad I found you home." "Oh, yes, do." Laurie led the way and motioned him to a chair. "You -needn't have brought the watch. Or, is it about Bobby?" she asked in quick alarm. "No, neither the watch nor Bobby, though he still keeps asking for Aunt Laurie." He shifted uneasily in his chair and brushed a nervous hand over the thick, dark hair, the cowlick which wouldn't lie down. "But that isn't what I came about." He hesitated and cleared his throat, then got up. He lifted a book from the table only to lay it down again. "Well, you see, it's not only Bobby who has missed you. I have, too. Bobby may get over it, but I won't. I love you, Laurie. Will you marry me?" Laurie's face was incredulous. She felt the slow blood mount her cheeks and suddenly realized that she had been in love with David all the time. Else why her reluctance to do anything except wait, else why this singing in every nerve of her body? "But,.. Ght.74 mered. She stamE stepped forward eagerly. "I haven't known what was the matter with me. Then, when you came yesterday, when I saw you Oh, Laurie, could you possibly love me? Could you learn?" He stood before her looking down anxiously. At her. Laurie drew a long breath. "I won't need to learn, David. I think I must have loved you for a long FOR KEEPS time. I decided my watch needed repairing. Perhaps it was just to see you again." David stared down at her for an unbelieving moment, then he reached forward and pulled her to her feet and into his arms. "Laurie, Laurie,' he breathed against her hair, against her lips. "What a lucky man I am. Why did I ever let you go?" Why, indeed? Remembering, Laurie pulled away. "But your mother!" David drew her back into his arms. "Mother is secretly wishing she were back in Boston, I'm sure. Anyway, she agrees you had more success with Bobby than she." The telephone rang. It was the employment agency. "I'm sorry, Miss Nichols. 'The place we spoke of was filled only a few hours ago. But we'll keep your name on file." "Never mind. I'm_ taking a permanent place soon," Laurie interrupted. "A little girl, as you hoped?" "No, two boys," Laurie returned happily. For suddenly, she remembered for the first time that Bobby would be hers, too, for keeps. +e Summer Surning Ing Smith Another summer is over now. Shade lingers by the wall, And a few down-drifting leaves give out The' lonely smell of fall. Now those who lie awake at night Glean elemental peace From the high, receding argument Of southward flying geese. 647 WELL ROUNDED TRAINING @ MILITARY @R ACADEMIC @R SPIRITUAL @ PHYSICAL @R SOCIAL REMEMBER Freshmen apply now. Sept. 26—Freshmen and new sophomores report. On campus.: Oct. 1-2—Registration of regular students. Oct. 3—Registration of special students, classwork begins. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah From eat and Sar Thanks for the fine article "Let's Write a Poem" (by Alberta H. Christensen, June 1951). I surely enjoyed it. —Winnifred Joan Bumham Mesa, Arizona I enjoy the Magazine as much here in Brazil (if not more) than I did at home. Thanks for the thoughtful editorials. I used a translation in one of our Liahonas, and had another translated. I enjoyed greatly the months I spent in the mission office, first with newspapers and radio programs, and after Christmas with the mission magazine, Liahona. I feel indeed blessed to have worked near to President and Sister Howells. Now I'm back in the field, working in the city of Curitiba, seventh city in size in Brazil (230,000). —Elder Herbert Newel Morris Curitiba, Brazil I loved the serial "Dark in the Chrysalis," by Alice Morrey Bailey (published in 1950). 'There was interest in every line of it, and the decorating angle was completely genuine. I love Helen G. Woods for the lovely thing she said about Anna Prince Redd ("From Near and Far," July 1951). —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I am a subscriber to the Magazine and intend to send the copies I have received with my poems in to poet friends not of our faithh Who knows the good they may do? I am proud to have my friends receive copies of the publications of my Church. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I have long wanted to write and tell you of my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. 'The lessons and articles are very interesting and helpful. I also enjoy the stories. I wish that more members here could read English, so that they could get the good out of the Magazine. In the branch here in Chur no one speaks English, and I don't have enough time to translate the articles. —Elder Wayne D. Cheney Chur, Switzerland Page 648 'ruins mentioned therein. I have had numerous calls on the Mexican story ('Vacation in Mexico," July 1951). One woman said she was "so relieved."" Her daughter, it seems, is making the auto trip to Mexico with some friends from New York, and her mother was worried about their -safety. She talked to me a long time about it. Anda number of others have said they are going to plan a vacation there. —Olive W. Burt Salt Lake City, Utah I can't tell you how much I enjoyed the last copy of The Relief Society Magaine (July). I am a missionary here in Mexico, and I can certainly verify everything that was said in "Vacation in Mexico" (by Olive W. Burt). I have had the opportunity of seeing some of the They are really a testimony to the truthfulness of The Book of Mormon. I really appreciate this fine Magazine. —FElder James Peterson Mexico City, Mexico I would just as soon be without salt in my pantry as without the Magazine on my bookshelf, so indispensable it has become to me. I wish to express my appreciation for the exceptionally fine article on fasting by President Milton R. Hunter ("Fasting and the Fast Day," July 1951). —B. A. Dickson Alpha, Washington The Magazine continues to be my favorite reading. The last issue (July) was full of worthwhile and beautiful things. I thoroughly enjoyed it from cover to cover. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah Because of the wealth and variety of fine literature found in The Relief Society Magazine, I deem it one of the finest publications in the literary field, and am so thankful that it gives voice to the thoughts and efforts of the women of our Church. —Jaynann M. Payne, Salt Lake City, Utah HIESE great texts and usual aids— For your Relief Society Courses of Study 1951-52 THEOLOGY: THE BOOK OF MORMON Missionary edition $1.00 0000000000000..$1.25 by mail Library edition __ -0 2000- eee$2.00 Large type edition 0.2.2.$3.00 THE GEORGE REYNOLDS BOOK OF MORMON CHART. A graphic, chronological chart of all Book of Mormon events, synchronized with events of ancient history of Greece, Rome—Assyria, Persia—; featuring each historian, the major peoples: Nephites, Lamanites, Mulekites, Gadianton Robbers; complete legend, giving the Book of Mormon in headlines. 16" x 74" in 5 colors. Published originally in 1898 by George Reynolds; reissued in 193] and 1951. $3.00. The best Book of Mormon visual aid yet produced. SOCIAL SCIENCE: THE PROGRESS OF MAN | $2.50 by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith LITERATURE: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND Volume 2 ooo none nee cece cence ence eneenenneeee$5.00* By mail ooo eee eee eee $5.25* *These are the correct prices. The wrong prices were quoted in July. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magarine When Buying From Advertisers ENS SS aN Ss RN +B OY, Bg 'Ehiyg si Btn +6, by Wise) VA74 '6 e hey tig ap fy 
