RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ISSUE
Lessons for March
DECEMBER 1951

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 DECEMBER 1951 No. 12

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

The Responsibility of Relief Society Members to Their Homes and the Priesthood by Stephen L Richards 796
Marion George Romney—Our New Apostle by Harold B. Lee 802
New Appointees to Be Assistants to the Council of the Twelve by Marianne C. Sharp 805
Relief Society and the Church Welfare Program by Marion G. Romney 808
The Annual General Relief Society Conference by Margaret C. Pickering 817
Report and Official Instructions by Belle S. Spafford 818

FICTION

Christmas at Welcome Inn by Pansye H. Powell 824
Through This Door — Chapter 5 by Margery S. Stewart 840
Another Mary by Mary R. Ross 846

GENERAL FEATURES

Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 829
Editorials: The One Hundred Twenty-second Semi-annual Conference of the Church by Marianne C. Sharp 830
Ernest L. Wilkinson Inaugurated President of Brigham Young University by Marianne C. Sharp 831
Importance of Articles on "The Constitution and the United Nations Charter" 832
Notes to the Field: New Record Book for Ward Magazine Representatives 833
Use of Material for Theology Lessons 833
From Near and Far 872

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Recipes for Christmas by Ethel C. Smith 835
Planning a Christmas Table by Marian R. Boyer 839
Christmas Gift Wrapping Is Fun by Florence S. Jacobsen 844
The Gift Without the Giver by Caroline Eyring Miner 847
A Christmas Star Tree by Bertha Lorentzen 848

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Theology: Coriantumr and Ether by Leland H. Monson 849
Visiting Teacher Messages: "Now It Is Better That a Man Should Be Judged of God" by Leone O. Jacobs 852
Work Meeting — Sewing: Mending Men's Suits by Jean Ridges Jennings 853
Literature: Two Romantic Essayists: Lamb and Hazlitt by Briant S. Jacobs 855
Social Science: New Races in America by Archibald F. Bennett 860
Music: Conducting With the Six-eight Baton Pattern by Florence J. Madsen 865

POETRY

Song for Midnight — Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 795
Breviary by Miranda Snow Walton 816
Let the Holly Wreath Be Hung by Margaret B. Shomaker 834
The Gentle Artisan by Iris W. Schow 845
December Has Her Loveliness by Mabel Jones Gabbott 847
Winter Witchery by Alice Whitson Norton 864

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Santa Says: Shop at ZCMI for Personalized Christmas Gifts

FIELDCREST BLANKETS

Skillfully blended of wool (10%), cotton (25%), and rayon (65%), these luxurious satin bound blankets are 72x90. Lt. Green, leaf green, rose, gold, blue, red. 9.98

ZCMI DOMESTICS
Downstairs Store

SHEERMODE NYLONS

An ever welcome gift. Irregularities only an expert could detect. In taupetone, beigetone, or rosetone. 8 to 11 1/2.

51 gauge, 15 denier - - 1.19
45 gauge, 30 denier - - 1.09
Nonrun - - - - - - 2.49
Dark heel - - - - - 2.19
Microfilm no seam - - 89¢

ZCMI HOSIERY — Downstairs Store

PERT for short slender legs

Mail Orders to: Margot Manners, ZCMI. Enclose 8c postage for medium hose; 30c postage for blanket.
Utah residents add 2% sales tax.

GRANDO K for extra long legs Hal Rumel CHRISTMAS TREES IN THE WASATCH MOUNTAINS, UTAH THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 38, NO. 12. ~ DECEMBER 1951 Song for Midnight Dorothy J. Roberts Few have traveled to the lane of light And know the silence where the angels are, But the ready and the knowing comprehend What heart hears music, what mind marks the star. While seekers combed the tangled paths of earth, The shepherd knew but open fields alone, And lines long symboled on a parchment stick, A staff of prayer, and a brook's white stone. Yet silence burst in chorals on his ear And the songs were signets for his thought to wear; He saw the town appear, a gleaming pearl, And, heaped with glory, brought his joy to share. Thus are the spare and quiet plains of duty Appointed haven of celestial sound, And those, untiring, who keep ceaseless vigil May listen, knowing they walk holy ground. They will receive him though their orbits be Brief as the paths to pasture on the hills; For, true as the pitcher from the potter's wheel, Their spirit is the vessel glory fills. They will bring the note and beam of wisdom Back from the threshold of the holy place, To ray with testament a starless hour And point a pilgrim host in ways of grace. The Cover: "Rest on the Flight Into Egypt," from a Painting by Plockhorst, Camera Clix, New York Cover Design by Evan Jensen The Responsibility of Relief Dociety Members to Their Homes and the Priesthood President Stephen L Richards Of the First Presidency & [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] | FEEL very humble, my sisters, in following the masterful address of your President, filled with a great challenge to all of you. Indeed, the entire program up to this point has been very interesting to me, and I regard myself as fortunate to have had the invitation to be with you. I've always been very grateful for the Relief Society, except perhaps on one occasion. When my wife and I were married over here in the Temple a little over fifty years ago, it so happened that my wife's grandmother, Bathsheba W. Smith, was the President of the Relief Society. As I recall, she was also matron of the Salt Lake Temple. Well, after we were married, I had a hack. You know what a hack is, you younger women. I had a hack, which was a form of public conveyance comparable to our taxicabs now, only horse-drawn, out at the gate of the Temple to meet us. It was the first hack that I had ever hired, because young men in those days didn't have very much money to spend on luxuries of that kind. I was quite proud to think that I could get it to take my wife home after the marriage. And, lo and behold, when I got out to the Temple gate, prePage 796 pared to take my wife home in this luxurious carriage, whom should she have with her, in one of her kindly disposed moments, but one of the old members of the Relief Society, and she said, "This sister lives two or three miles out on the way, and I thought that we could take her home." Well, I don't remember whether she sat between us or not, but I do recall at the time that I kind of wished that Heber C. Kimball hadn't left any widows. But I don't hold it against my wife, she's a very resourceful lady, and very interesting. I never know what she's going to do, but I always know it will be expensive. I am sure that this great congregation here today is very substantial evidence of the magnitude of the great work in which you are en-— gaged. Very few comparable movements could fill the Tabernacle as you do here at this time, and I am sure that they who have observed with any degree of scrutiny, the marvelous progress that has been made in this organization and in its work over the years, have unbounded admiration and respect for the movement which was begun so long ago under the circumstances so impressively given to us here today. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS There must have been a divine end to be subserved in this organization, and it is evident that this end is being subserved in the progress of your work. I have been very interested indeed to learn of the attention which you have given to families and to homes. As I have been over the Church in the last thirty or forty years, I have tried to be an advocate of the Latter-day Saint home, in all its superior aspects. I have taken the position that there is nothing in our whole society so important and so contributive to our welfare as the fundamental institution of the home. After all, the home is the very foundation of government. In the old patriarchal days, the head of the household was the head of the tribe or the head of the nation. He was the lawgiver and he was the judge, and many of the nations of the world have carried forward a purity of blood that has made them little more than enlarged families, and there may be more than we can fully realize in the expression which we so frequently use, "the blood of Israel." The family concept is one of the major and most important of our whole theological doctrine, and as I frequently have said, our very concept of heaven itself is little more than a projection of the home into eternity, and you will find, of course, verification of that in our scriptures, particlarly in the 132nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants. So that I subscribe most heartily to the appeal made to lend all possible aid to the care of this sacred institution of home. As_ Sister Spafford was mentioning the ter- 797 rible conditions which prevail in some homes by reason of split families, or by reason of divorces and inattention to the home, it occurred to me that you sisters might do an immense preventive work in these tragic conditions. I used to be a lawyer and practice at the bar; I've tried many divorce cases. I've heard the evidence of the plaintiff and the defendant and their witnesses, and I long ago reached the conclusion that the major part of all our domestic troubles begins with trifling irritations, irritations about affairs, finances, and other more or less trivial things connected with the home. There are so many problems that it is sometimes difficult for both of the partners in this great relationship to see alike. I remember once reading of an old preacher who had married a couple, and some time afterwards the man went back to this preacher and said to him, "I thought thou toldst me that morning when I came out of Geasely Church with my bride on my arm, that I'd got to the end of all my troubles." "Oh, yes," said the preacher, "I did tell thee so, but I didn't tell thee which end." So there are these constant irritations that come into a home if everything isn't just right. Now sisters, if your work as visiting teachers could be extended to include, as perhaps it is intended so to do, something of discreet investigation as to what the relationship of the husband and the wife in that home is, and as to whether or not they are suffering with some of these irritations and quarreling, it might be that, with some careful admonition, there could be nipped 798 in the bud a situation that results in a divorce. What a one that would be! When I think how lightly the marriage compact is viewed by many people, without regard to the children, those who suffer most, innocent victims of these disturbed family relationships, I think that anyone who can save a marriage is entitled not only to a great personal satisfaction, but is entitled to the blessings of our Father who is interested in the preservation of these sacred institutions. I don't know as it would be violating a confidence to say to you here today that one of the most disturbing and exacting of all the duties coming to the President of the Church relates to these divorces, and to help to avoid those situations would be a marvelous contribution. I have the most profound admiration for the visiting teachers of the Relief Society. Of course, we have seen them throughout all of our history. I know they inquire with as much care and solicitude as they may, as to the economic conditions. 'They want to know if people have food, and bedding, and clothing, and shelter. They are particularly interested in the physical welfare of the people, and the good that they have done in their unobtrusive way can never be written. It goes beyond even our comprehension, these dear sisters who have quietly carried in things where they have been needed, and have helped the bedridden wife and mother, and have come to the relief of those suffering from the deprivation of loved ones. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 Pll venture that if there could be assessed the amount of food that has been prepared by the Relief Society to bring to the homes of the people of this Church (and those not of this Church) after a funeral, it would be prodigious in its amount. What a kindly service! There is scarcely a death in a ward where these kind sisters do not make provision to bring comfort and blessedness to. Those who need it. I never go to a funeral that I don't observe the Relief Society sisters, looking after the flowers, and helping the people. These are simple _ services and they are of very great advantage. 'The economic advantage is this: I have never made a great study of it, but I've been acquainted with social work to a sufficient extent that I know that all social work is what we say heavily loaded. Only a part of the contributions reach the beneficiaries. A percentage goes to expenses. The charity of the Relief Society is freer from loading than any charity I have ever known. They may not be educated like some of your professional social workers, but they carry a spirit and love that is unmatchable. FE do need constructive care and constructive attention to our problems, but I think our sisters are capable of doing this, and I hope that they will not depart far from the time-honored practice and procedure which take them into the homes as friends and neighbors with love and sympathy to requite the necessities of those who need them. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS So I pay my tribute to the visiting teachers of this great organization, who, over generations, have been ministering angels of mercy and comfort and encouragement to their neighborhood. Now there is an aspect of your work that I would like to bring to your attention this day. I suppose it had its initial beginning about the time that these sisters have spoken of, when as I understand it, among other instructions, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that the women were to provoke their men to good works. I have sometimes wondered if that was a very wise choice of a word. My wife always uses it on me if I think she goes too far. She says she has official warrant to "provoke" me. But the meaning was that the sisters should help their husbands of the Priesthood. Sister Spafford has defined from the original instructions, the relationship of the Priesthood to the sisters, and there are a few aspects of that subject that I think might with. Propriety be brought to your attention. First, a marriage is a partnership, a marriage is a compact between a man and wife. But a Latter-day Saint marriage carries with it something more than the worldly compact. The Latter-day Saint marriage carries the understanding that a man of the Priesthood is to stand at the head of his household. I've been a little concerned, at times, about the attitude that I have observed arising from women who were so intent upon the emphasis to be placed on this partnership, that they were not willing to take any subordinate, if it may be called subordinate position. Now I am 799 sympathetic with what our women do and the contribution they make to the home, and, for my own part, I say that it is the biggest contribution of all. But for the good of the home and for its preservation, I have long been firmly convinced that any woman who will sustain her husband as head of the household, and teach her children to do likewise, will make a distinct contribution to the children also. And I always regret seeing a woman do anything to belittle her husband, even for his mistakes, before her children, and I have been hurt time and time again when I have been in homes and seen a man embarrassed, and I likewise have no sympathy with a husband who would embarrass his wife before her children. WE are under a government of law. We are under the government of the law of the Lord in Zion and we are under the government of the law of the land where we live. Few things contribute more to respect for the law and established authority than the practices of the home. Ill tell you, you can't very well expect to teach re- — spect for authority if you permit your husband to be belittled in the presence of your children. So I draw that to your attention, because I believe as we preserve the integrity of the home as it was meant to be, we will do that which we should for the building up of the kingdom. I want your menfolks to be worthy to be sustained as the heads of the household, that goes without saying, but in your sympathetic understanding, even at the sacrifice 800 of what may seem to be a little of your own dignity, I ask you to try to sustain them before their children as the heads of the household. The men need your help in other Tespects. It may seem a little bit odd that I should appear before you here today to ask you to help us with the Priesthood of this Church, but I make that appeal. Sisters, you know what the Priesthood means to those who bear it, you know how important it is that they should magnify their callings, and I trust that you know that the man who fails to use his Priesthood will lose it. You do not want the men of the Priesthood to lose their Priesthood; you want to help them and you want to encourage them. Our men need to attend their meetings more than they do. I hope. They are always encouraged so to do by their wives. I recognize the fact that when a man comes home at night after work his wife needs him. She has cared for the children all day; she is tired as he is. She could use his help and his influence in the discipline of the children and in helping her with them, and it's a great sacrifice to her to be deprived of his company when she needs him. But if that man has a Priesthood meeting, I hope that you dear sisters will say, "John, you go to your meeting, I'll get along. You go to your meeting." If you say that, you'll give him encouragement and help and you'll be glad that you took that course, for if that man maintains his position in the Priesthood, it will be the reward for your sacrifice, and God will bless you and your family by his close adRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-DECEMBER 1951 herence to all of his duties and responsibilities. We need your help in the reclamation of some men, not only in their encouragement, but we need your help in their reclamation. And I'm sure that our sisters, exercising their influence wisely, can be a great means of bringing back a lot of men who have been negligent, and who have gone astray. I know it's a sorrow to many of you, a great sorrow, to have your men go astray, and I think you can give help without being offensive, and that help will be rewarded. So attention to these opportunities, I am sure, my dear sisters, will bring great good for the Church. I've always said that if two things in this Church were right everything else would be right. The Priesthood and the home are those two things. You, of course, are chiefly responsible for one of them, or largely so, and you can help infinitely in the other one. NOw a good deal is said these days about women getting out, getting out of the home, getting away from all of the drudgery and relieving themselves from some of the burden. That women carry. I am glad Sister Spafford said what she did about our wives working. I suppose that our wives will consider, some of them, that they need to work. I regret it, at least if they have families to care for, because that is their first responsibility and consideration. But this getting out of the home, going away much, wanting to be on trips, not being satished with home and family, I am sure you can do much to combat that idea. The women that THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS want to get away from home are the women that never learn to have any real pleasure and enjoyment in their home with their children. They want to get away, because they are often unhappy. My dear old mother told me that for the first twenty-five years that she was married, she never was away from home twenty-four hours at one time. Now it's different, I guess, but she was not an unhappy woman; anybody who knew her will testify that she wasn't. She was a very happy mother and a happy woman. And for the first quarter century of her married life, she gave herself to her home and her children, and made them happy. I wish that the women of the world could understand what it means to secure such happiness out of their homes. I'm sure that they would be led to a different course than they now take. Perhaps that was too much confinement, but it wasn't unhappiness. It was the realization of what she thought was her goal and her ambition as a mother and a homemaker. So I hope that you - will do what you can, my sisters, to stay the progress of this tendency to get out of the home. We live apart so much from it now that it doesn't fill the function that it once had. I used to have an old Irish friend, with an inimitable wit, who used to say, "Well, in the old times, it was always thought to be the proper thing for a baby to. Be born at home, and now they are 801 all born up in the hospital, and it was always thought to be the proper custom for old folks to die at home, and now they go to California." So, after all, there isn't much doing in the home with a good many of these people. Some of the work may seem to be mundane, but it is not. There is no menial, there is no mundane work in raising a family of God's children to return them to their eternal home whence their spirits came. So great is the concept of that undertaking, so glorious the vision of that which follows, that it must, of necessity, give spiritual import and great significance to every single item, however trivial, however small, which transpires in a good home. So, my dear sisters, my heart is full of blessings for you today. I know I would be derelict if I did not bring to you at this conference the greetings and the love and the blessings of President McKay and President Clark. I know their appreciation of your marvelous work, and I know that we in the Church rely upon you for the achievement of some of its greatest goals and aspirations, and I know that with the record that you have behind you, you will not fail, but you will go forward, and large and important as your organization seems today, it will grow, and expand, and exercise a larger and more potent influence in the building of Zion. God bless you to this end, I ask humbly in the name of Jesus. Amen. Marion George Romney—Our New Apostle Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve N a testimony meeting of the General Authorities called by the President of the Church on the first Thursday of a new year, one of the brethren, in bearing his testimony, thanked the Lord for his childhood home; for a lovely mother and a splendid God-fearing father. Another of the brethren, commenting on the remarks of the ' former, declared it was his conviction that had it not been that each in that circle came from the kind of home described, not one would likely have ever been called to his present position as one of the General Authorities of the Church. Of the childhood home of Marion G. Romney that observation is fully merited. His father, George S. Romney, and his mother, Artamesia Redd, both of pioneer ancestors, were themselves pioneers in settling the "Colonies" in Old Mexico, about two hundred miles south of the Mexican border. Marion, the eldest. Son in a family of ten children, was born in Colonia Juarez, Mexico, on September 109, 1897. Sometime, if you would hear of one of the most dramatic and trying episodes in the Church history of our day, ask Elder Romney to relate the experiences of his family, he being then a boy of fourteen, when they were forced to leave Mexico in 1912, along with hundreds of other families, in what Page 802 devoted - is referred to as the "Exodus," as a result of the mobbings and plunderings of Mexican revolutionists headed by the rebel leader, Pancho Villa. His recital would tell of a frightened little family, his father's family, loaded on a wagon with but the barest of household necessities and no clothing except that which they wore, fleeing from their childhood home before the Mexican mob at the point of drawn guns. The story of that homeless family, in destitute circumstances, seeking refuge in El Paso, then in California, and finally to Oakley and Rexburg, Idaho, is one which tells of a continuous struggle to maintain its independence on a small family income which was always faithfully tithed. 'That narrative would: describe the near perfect family teamwork organized and directed by father and mother, as the family preserved their pride and dignity toward the ultimate goal of building strong, sterling characters in each of ten sturdy children as a result of the never-ending tussle with stern necessity. During the last ten and one-half years, Elder Romney has been in charge of the office activities and field operations of the Church Welfare Program. We have worked side by side with him for all these years in this work and have seen MARION GEORGE ROMNEY—OUR NEW APOSTLE 803 the workings of his rugged, individualistic nature tempered by a keen, sympathetic understanding of the problems of the unfortunate. Who knows but that through the experiences of the Mexican "Exodus," and the years which followed, there was being forged under the watchful eye of the Almighty a sharp, finely tempered human instrument in the person of Marion G. Romney to be used under the call of the Lord to cut a pattern in demonstration of the Lord's way in caring for his saints in a day when man-made systems had ll but destroyed the Christian concept of "pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their afflictions.."? IS call to his present high place is unquestionably the seal of divine approval upon his labors in this great latter-day movement. But there is another characteristic deeply rooted in his nature THE MARION G. ROMNEY FAMILY Front row, seated: Elder Marion G. Romney; Granddaughter, Catherine; Sister Ida Jensen Romney. Back row: Richard J. Romney; his wife, Joanne Ware Romney; George J. Romney. 804 which is almost the ruling passion of his life. I speak of his great sense of loyalty to those whom we sustain as Church leaders. To him loyalty doesn't mean merely to accept blindly the counsel of Church Authorities, but, beyond that, the responsibility of receiving the witness in his heart that their counsel was inspired and could be accepted without reservation. On the occasion of a spirited political campaign in which he was a candidate, when the leaders of the Church let their feelings be known as to some of the issues involved, I heard him say something like this, "As soon as I read their statement I knew that I wanted to do just what they had suggested. But I also knew that I must feel right in my heart in so doing and that took almost a night on my knees to attain." It might be said that he has the great quality of intelligent obedience to those in authority over him, rather than that of blind obedience, which is frequently the subject of much discussion. Many men say their prayers, but there are a few who talk with the Lord. Elder Romney is one of these few. His great faith is such as to believe that when we have been confronted with insurmountable obstacles, where the welfare of the membership of the Church is at stake, that if we gave the Holy Ghost a chance to work on those of the opposition, as an_ early Church leader advised, those obstacles could be overcome. We have been a witness with him of this. Truth when pleading the cause of this people before high-placed officials in the Nation's Capital. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 You who have heard him in public discourse know his forthrightness and directness as a speaker. His sermons give evidence of much thoughtful study and deep understanding of the gospel principles. With it all, he has a keen sense of humor, which is spontaneous and refreshing and yet not beyond the bounds of propriety. But no sketch of the life of Brother Romney would be complete without mention of his family, to which he, as with every Church leader, must look for strength and support. His faith, combined with an intense love of his family, is so great that it is altogether probable, even as with Alma of old, that should one of his loved ones stray away, he or she could be surrounded and influenced by powers divine because of the spiritual pleadings of this devoted father and brother. Perhaps no influence in his life exceeds that of his lovely, devoted wife, Ida Jensen Romney, to whom he gives full credit for her great contribution to the same cause of righteousness to which he has dedicated his life. Her Relief Society presidency has provided the opportunity of giving her an even deeper insight, if that were possible, into the Church life of her illustrious husband in the Welfare Program during the last ten years. The fact that he has been an athlete, a carpenter, an attorney, and a vigorous, aggressive worker, provides his two sons, Richard and George, with a worthy example and competitor, constantly challenging them to give their best as the bearers of the Romney name. (Continued on page 870) New Appointees to Be Assistants to the Council of the Twelve Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ["c great growth of the Church was evidenced at the 122d semi-annual conference in the appointment of four more Assistants to the Council of the Twelve, bringing that body to a strength of seven men. In addition to the present members, Brothers Alma Sonne, Clifford E. Young, and Thomas E.. McKay, there were added George Q. Morris, Stayner Richards, ElRay L. Christiansen, and John Longden. George O. Morris Brother Morris comes to his new calling after long years of Church service in the mission field, as a bishop, a member of a stake presidency, and many years of experience working with young people. For eleven years he was the general superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association general board. Since 1948 he has been serving as president of the Eastern States Mission. Because of this appointment he was not in attendance at the conference. Brother Morris and his wife Emma Ramsey Morris are the parents of three daughters, Marion, Margery (Mrs. Edward Woods), and Helen (Mrs. R. T. Stewart). Brother Morris studied at the _ Brigham Young University, and is a graduate of the University of Utah. He is president and general manager of Elias Morris and Sons, and has a background of business experience. The many friends whom President Morris has made throughout his distinguished career are made happy by this new calling. Stayner Richards Elder Stayner Richards also was a mission president, president of the British Mission, at the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Because of the death of a son Robert S., on September 26, Brother and Sister Richards were both in Salt Lake City and in attendance at conference. Years of devoted Church service are recognized in his new appointment. Brother Richards has served in the mission field, as bishop, a member of a high council, and a stake president. Fle has had wide business experience and is the president of the Stayner Richards Building and Construction Company, and is a graduate of the University of Utah. In addition to Robert, Brother Richards and his wife, Jane Foote Taylor Richards, are the parents of May (Mrs. Therron Fotheringham), Marian (Mrs. John Landward), and Nancy (Mrs. John Poulton). In accepting his new calling, President Richards said, "I have Page 805 806 ELDER GEORGE QO. MORRIS always loved, admired, respected, and in my humble way, attempted to support the General Authorities of the Church. "Now, realizing my inability, my inadequacy, to be asked to step in and associate with those brethren completely overwhelms me. I would be ungrateful if I did not thank them for this appointment, thank you for sustaining me today, and all I can do is to promise unto you that I shall give to this calling the best that I have." ElRay L. Christiansen President ElRay L. Christiansen is by profession an educator. His Church work has included serving as a bishop, stake Sunday School officer, stake Mutual officer, member of a high council, and former president of the 'Texas-Louisiana Mission. President Christiansen is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 ELDER STAYNER RICHARDS now serving as president of the East Cache Stake and president of the Logan 'Temple. He is a graduate of the Utah State Agricultural College and has done graduate study at Brigham Young University and at the University of Utah. He and his wife Lewella Rees Christiansen are the parents of Frances Jean (Mrs. R. Eugene Elwood), John R., and Dorthea Lou (Mrs. Robert Murdock). In concluding his remarks at conference, President Christiansen said: "May the Lord bless us, my brothers and sisters, that we may be faithful and be counted among those who would, if necessary, give our lives for His sake as He has given His for our sake. And I ask you, my friends and associates, who know my limitations only as I know them, to help me and to pray for NEW APPOINTEES TO BE ASSISTANTS TO THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE ELDER ELRAY L. CHRISTIANSEN me. I need it. May God bless us to be faithful and true." John Longden Elder John Longden is a Britisher by birth and immigrated to this country in 1909. He has had a distinguished career in the land of his adoption in Church, civic, and business fields. He has served as a missionary, a bishop, stake officer in the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, a member of high councils, and the assistant co-ordinator for Latter-day Saint servicemen for Utah, Idaho, and Nevada areas. At present Brother Longden is a member of the General Church Welfare Committee. He is general manager of the Westinghouse Electric Supply Company, and has served as president of civic and business organ- 807 ELDER JOHN LONGDEN izations. He has also given service in dramatic and singing activities. He and his wife Larue Carr Longden are the parents of three daughters, one of whom died at the age of three years. 'The living daughters are Gail (Mrs. Grant A. Hickman), and Sharon. Sister Longden is a counselor in the general presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. In his talk of acceptance Brother Longden said, "Everything I have I owe to this Church, and how grateful I am that the missionaries came and sought out my parents in England some sixty years ago, and that they listened to their warning voice. I bear you witness and testimony that if we will do the things that these men, whom we have sustained, counsel us in, we will have no need to fear." Relief Society and the Church Welfare Program Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] am very grateful for the invitation extended to me by your presidency to meet with and speak to you this morning. I love the Relief Society, its members, and the services rendered by them. I am certain that the welfare work is not lagging for want of your support. It seems to me that in setting up the Relief Society organization and _ instructing its members, the Prophet Joseph was exercising his prophetic and seeric powers at their best. Sister Spafford and her counselors have advised me that there are two questions concerning our welfare work about which they have received many inquiries from ward and stake Relief Society sisters. One of them is the welfare employment program as it applies to Relief Society women; the other concerns the matters to be considered in the departments of the bi-monthly regional meetings attended by stake Relief Society presidencies. My purpose while making these remarks shall therefore be to tell you what I can about these two matters, and then mention one or two other items as time permits. | First, with respect to the employment work: In the revised welfare handbook, which is being readied for publication, are set out the Page 808 ultimate goals and the immediate objectives of Church Welfare. The first immediate objective as there stated is to "place in gainful employment those who are able to work." If we can reach this first immediate objective, it will be a great step toward our ultimate goal, which is to rehabilitate and make self-sustaining all needy members of the Church. | In order to put all able-bodied men, and such able-bodied women and young folks as bear the responsibility for earning a livelihood, into gainful employment, an employment program has been developed and adopted as part of the Welfare Program. This employment program has been set out in detail in a bulletin, known as Bulletin No. 19 and titled "Employment Under the Church Welfare Plan." Each of you is entitled to a copy of it. Of course, you all know that one counselor to the ward Relief Society president is appointed to be the ward Relief Society employment counselor, and that one counselor to the stake Relief Society president is appointed to be the stake Relief Society employment counselor. (In Bulletin No. 19 these counselors are referred to as "employment placement counselors." Some exceptions have, however, RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM been taken to the word "placement" as being superfluous, so I think we shall discontinue the use of it.) In the interests of time and to avoid monotonous repetitions, I shall in these remarks use the term "ward counselor" when referring to the ward Relief Society employment counselor, and I shall use the term "stake counselor" when referring to the stake Relief Society employment counselor. As a member of the ward welfare committee, the ward counselor has the responsibility of regularly attending two meetings. They are (1) the weekly ward welfare committee meeting and (2) the bi-monthly stake welfare meeting, which is so scheduled as to take the place of a ward welfare committee meeting. The stake counselor has the obligation of regularly attending the following welfare meetings: (1) The bi-monthly stake welfare committee meetings, and (2) monthly stake welfare meeting. This meeting is the one attended by ward welfare committee members. And if the stake to which she belongs is in an organized welfare region, she is to attend the bimonthly regional meeting. As is true with all phases of Church Welfare work, finding employment should, in the main, be done by the ward welfare workers. The employment work at the General Committee, the regional and stake levels, is to aid ward workers. HE program contemplates that the ward counselor should keep herself informed on the following two matters: first, as to which women and girls in the ward have the bi- 809 responsibility to provide a living for themselves or others, what kind of services they are qualified to render in earning a living, and who among them are in need of employment; and second, what employment can be found for these women and girls by the women of the ward. In other words, the ward counselor should keep herself advised as to the employment needs of the women and girls of the ward and as to the employment opportunities available to them through the women of the ward, and she should place as many of these women and girls in gainful employment as she can. It should never be forgotten, however, that the ideal occupation and career for Latter-day Saint wives and mothers is homemaking. In maintaining homes, caring for their husbands and families, and training their children in the paths of righteousness lies their greatest opportunity and their first responsibility. The obligation of Relief Society employment counselors for placing women and girls in gainful employment is therefore limited to women and girls who must, of necessity, be breadwinners. Such of these as have young children should, wherever possible, be supplied work which can be done in their own homes. Only in extreme cases should women with young children be provided with work outside the home. In times of high employment, some mothers are lured away from their homes by high wages and a desire for things which they could well get along without. Their children are left in the care of others and too frequently neglected. The paltry dollars these women earn 810 will prove poor compensation for the price their neglected children 'and they themselves will have to pay for their folly. Returning now to the discussion of the details of employment work, I should like to remove from your minds all fear of a maze of intricate procedures. 'The General Church Welfare Committee has not laid down any fixed pattern by which you must advise yourself of the employment needs of women and girls within your wards, nor as to how you are to keep yourselves advised as to employment opportunities available through the women of your ward. However, to set up the program a survey of the women of the ward is necessary. 'This survey should have been made under the direction of the bishop as part of a ward-wide survey. 'The pertinent information as to employment needs revealed in the survey should have been entered on the cards in the ward green card record file maintained under the supervision of the bishop. It might be well for the ward Relief Society presidency to set up a record of their own in which to keep information as to the employment needs and as to employment opportunities, with such other information as is needed by the members of the ward Relief Society presidency in carrying on their welfare assignments. In it could be kept a record covering each woman in the ward. Where the bishop's file is kept current, the information as to employment needs could be taken from it; where the bishop's file is not kept up to date, the ward Relief Society presidency, with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 consent of the bishop, could make a survey to get the necessary information. A Such a file in the hands of a ward Relief Society presidency, if kept current, would be of great assistance not only to the employment counselor but to the work director and to the Relief Society president herself in her social service work. It must be kept in mind, however, that when such a file is set up, it soon loses its edge as a working tool unless the information in it is kept current. It occurs to me that in keeping such a file up to date, Relief Society teachers could bring from their monthly visits information of great value. Relief Society members in attendance at the weekly ward Relief Society meetings could be asked to report on employment needs and opportunities in their own and their neighbors' homes, and then, of course, the Relief Society work director and the Relief Society president, in carrying on their important welfare functions, uncover vital information available from no other source. (WHEN the ward counselor goes to the weekly ward welfare committee meeting, if the background work of which I have been talking has been done, she has a ready knowledge of the employment needs of the women and girls of the ward and of the employment opportunities for them, so far as they are available through the women of the ward. She is prepared to give this information, together with a report of the employment placements she has made, to RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 811 the bishop and his ward employment counselor, upon whom rests the responsibility of directing the over-all ward employment program. The ward employment counselor, whom you, of course, understand to be one of the bishop's counselors, passes on to the stake employment counselor, who is a counselor to the stake president, information of such employment needs as are not met in the ward and such employment opportunities as are not taken' by ward members. This information the stake employment counselor passes on to other ward employment counselors in the stake for their use in placing their unemployed. Through the stake employment counselor, the ward employment counselor receives similar information from the other wards in the stake. ~The ward counselor takes from the ward welfare committee meeting for use in her work, such information on employment needs and opportunities as are reported in the meeting by other members of the committee. Through a regional organization, information with respect to employment needs and opportunities may be exchanged among stakes in a region in the same way that we have just explained it may be exchanged among wards in a stake. The program provides for stake counselors to meet in a department meeting with the ward counselors six times a year in bi-monthly stake welfare meetings. In these meetings the stake counselor should teach, encourage, and _ stimulate ward counselors in their work, and they should keep themselves informed and available so that they may give such help to ward counselors when called upon by them. The stake counselors, as you know, meet six times a year in a department of the bi-monthly regional meeting for a discussion of their welfare work. The foregoing is in brief outline my understanding of the work assigned to the women of the Relief Society in the Church Welfare gainful employment program. E, come now to our second question, which concerns the matters to be considered in the departments of the bi-monthly regional meetings attended by stake Relief Society presidencies. Three such departments are provided for. They are (1) a department for stake Relief Society presidents, (2) a department for stake Relief Society employment counselors, and (3) a department for stake Relief Society work directors. A group leader is appointed by the regional council from the membership of each of these groups, who conduct their respective departments. 'These group leaders have no general jurisdiction over the membership of their departments. 'They are appointed for the single purpose of conducting their respective departments in the bimonthly regional meetings. Conducting as here used includes, of course, preparing for, directing, and carrying forward the proceedings of the meeting. No detailed outline or instructions as to what should be taken up in these departments have been prepared by the General Church Welfare Committee. 812 The functions and duties of the stake Relief Society presidents, work directors, and employment counselors have been set out in the welfare handbooks that have heretofore been published, and some of these duties have been discussed in Bulletin No. 19. It has in the past been the feeling of the General Church Welfare Committee that with these publications before them, and with the help of the regional council, these group leaders could prepare material for presentation to and discussion with their respective groups which would fit in with the development of welfare work in their respective stakes and regions better than would any uniform course of study or outline prepared by the General Church Welfare Committee. Recently, however, an assignment has been given by the General Church Welfare Committee to its Program Committee to prepare some material which it is hoped will be helpful to the group leaders in conducting these departments. In the meantime, it seems to me that in the Relief Society employment counselors' department of the bi-monthly regional meeting, the place and responsibilities of such counselors in the employment program of the Church Welfare Program might with profit be studied. What we have already said here today might be worth studying, and certainly Bulletin No. 19 is worth the time of several sessions. If, through earnest preparation and study in these bi-monthly meetings, the stake employment counselors become well versed in the employment program, they will be in a poRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 sition to teach it to ward employment counselors in bi-monthly stake welfare meetings, and the confusion about it will pass away. Time will not permit our consideration here of the responsibilities and functions of the Relief Society work directors. 'They have, however, been as clearly defined in the handbooks and in bulletins as have those of the Relief Society employment counselors. 'They are not, however, understood by all stake Relief Society work directors nor by all ward Relief Society work directors. It occurs to me, therefore, that in their department at the bi-monthly regional meetings, these responsibilities and functions could with great profit be studied and discussed, thus qualifying the stake Relief Society work director to go into the bi-monthly stake welfare meetings and teach effectively to the ward Relief Society work directors their duties and responsibilities. T would be my judgment that there is little difficulty encountered in the preparation of an order of business for the Relief Society presi- _ dents' department for the reason that they have full responsibility for the success of all welfare work assigned to the women of the Relief Society. To discharge this great assignment, they should be fully informed on the specific work assigned to both their counselors, as well as to the work reserved for themselves to do. They can hardly be assured that their counselors' assignments are being properly discharged unless they know what these assignments are. RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM As I understand the division of your work, the presidents have the responsibility to assist the bishop in administering to the needs of ward members. It seems to me that to do this work acceptably requires almost infinite wisdom, and such wisdom can come from just two sources—knowledge, and inspiration from heaven. One field of knowledge with which Relief Society presidents must become familiar is the Church Welfare field, including the background of the program, its ultimate goals, its immediate objectives, its organization, its procedures, its resources, and who should receive help through it. Instructions on these subjects, and many others, are covered in the forthcoming welfare handbook. Another field of knowledge in which Relief Society presidents should be experts is that of dealing with individuals receiving help. I suppose the social service department of the General Relief Society organization is bulging with rich information in this field. Call upon the General Relief Society Presidency for it. One of the activities in which we have done much good work, but in which we have an infinitely greater work to do, is that of giving individual attention to our distressed members. We have yet to do much in teaching homemakers how to make and live by a budget, how to -keep house, how and what to cook, how to sew, yes, and how to keep their homes and themselves clean. Sometimes there is a tendency to do things for them which they 813 could do for themselves, rather than to take the time and go to the trouble of teaching and training them how to do it. We must not be like the prince who tossed a coin to the beggar. We must come to learn that the gift without the giver is bare. I have heard it argued that it is folly to give a woman cloth with which to make a dress, when she has no sewing machine. Well, there are sewing machines in Relief Society sewing rooms to which a sister who has no machine could be taken and where she could be taught how to sew. And there are ways to get a sewing machine in her home. I know a Relief Society president who took her own sewing machine to the home of a welfaree and left it there for several weeks, to the everlasting blessing of both the borrower and the lender. It would do us no harm to commit to memory that great song, "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief," which the Prophet had President John Taylor sing to him twice in Carthage Jail that fatal afternoon of the martyrdom, and then repeat it over and over until the sentiment of it takes possession of our souls. -I am persuaded that one can find charity, the pure love of Christ, in building up the unfortunate quicker than in any other way. I firmly believe that the development of this phase of our work (I mean giving more of ourselves in exalting the poor), stands between us and the glorious millennium for which we pray. My conviction is that much consideration to these matters could with profit be given in the Relief Society presi- 814 dents' department of the bi-monthly regional welfare meetings. And now, to summarize, I know that the employment program I have outlined is not in full operation. In many places neither ward welfare committee meetings, stake welfare committee meetings, nor even stake welfare meetings (the only scheduled meeting for ward and stake welfare workers to get together) are being held as recommended. Where this condition prevails, you sisters are greatly handicapped in doing your work, and sometimes you are embarrassed. I recall an instance where, following a rather stimulating welfare meeting, a stake Relief Society president told me that she was ashamed that more welfare work was not being done in her stake, but her stake president had forbidden the holding of ward and stake welfare meetings. HAT do you do under such circumstances? Well, all I can say is, just do the best you can and then don't worry about it. Remember that there was a Relief Society organization before there was a Church Welfare Plan by that name, so the Welfare Program was not set up to give the Relief So- _ ciety something to do. Should you feel that the bishops and stake presidents are moving too slowly, you might remember what the Prophet Joseph said about provoking the brethren to good works in looking after the poor. Pending complete operation of the Program, here are some things you can do: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 In the employment field, you can — gather from the women of the ward information as to employment needs of women and girls, and as to employment opportunities. You can keep a current record of all such information in a file of your own. You can place in gainful employment as many women and girls who must have work as you can, and as to domestic employment information you can set up an exchange system among the wards in your stake through the stake Relief Society employment counselor. In the general welfare field, you can give much more attention than has yet been given to the individual sister receiving help through the Welfare Program, that she may indeed be exalted. You can redouble your efforts in your compassionate services, as evidenced by the fact that last year you increased your bedside care by five thousand eighthour days. I sincerely congratulate you on this accomplishment. You can learn the Welfare Program by studying the welfare bulletins and handbook and the literature issued by the General Relief Society Presidency. 'Then, knowing the program, you will be in a position to move into it as fast as the brethren of the Priesthood presiding over yeu give you opportunity. The time is far spent, I know, but there are two other activities in which Church Welfare needs, at this time, the vigorous support of all Relief Society sisters. One is in the teaching of the fast; the other is in securing the individual home against the day of need. You all know that one of the objectives of the Church is to sus- RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM tain its Welfare Program from two sources—welfare production and fast offerings. From the beginning, the Lord's people have been taught that fasting is an effective approach to him. Great spiritual blessings are to be had from proper fasting. Jesus himself set the pattern and made frequent use of the practice. 'The Lord has commanded us repeatedly, in ancient times and in modern times, to continue in fasting and prayer. = | A proper fast requires that one do three things: First, abstain from food and drink from "even to even"; second, seek the Lord in humble prayer; and third, contribute to the support of the Lord's poor. An historical review of God's dealings with his people in the earth reveals that from the earliest times he has taught them that their fasting and praying would not be acceptable to him unless accompanied with voluntary contributions for the support of his poor. I don't have time to give you a long discourse on the subject at this time, but if you will read the fifty-eighth chapter of Isaiah, the thirty-fourth chapter of Alma, Gospel Doctrine, pages 295-306, and Gospel Standards, page 123, you will find ample evidence of the truth of what I have said. N order that the people of the Church can be relieved of the necessity of raising cash to meet the annual welfare production budget, such items as cannot be readily produced have been removed from the budget, so that now if there is a conscientious effort made, the 815 annual Church Welfare production budget as presented by the General Church Welfare Committee can be produced in kind. Removing the items which cannot reasonably be expected to be produced in kind from the production budget, has placed a heavier load upon fast offerings. The Church is emphasizing the principle of the fast and encouraging all Church members to observe it. The most important thing which will come out of a proper observance will, of course, be the spiritual blessings to the people, and it is hoped that the fast offerings will increase to a point where the objective which I have heretofore mentioned, of meeting the. Costs of the Welfare Program with budget production and fast offerings, can be attained. Now you women of the Relief Society can exercise a tremendous influence in your homes in getting the members of your family to observe a proper fast. I earnestly urge you to do so., As to securing the individual home against the day of need, you all know that from the beginning of the Welfare Program, and even in pioneer days, the saints were urged to supply themselves with enough of the necessities of life to carry them through to the next harvest. We live in an age when people live from hand to mouth, relying upon the grocery store for their daily sustenance. We Latterday Saints must never forget the counsel we have received to put away sufficient supplies to carry us over an emergency. And let us not deceive ourselves into thinking that 816 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 the easy times in which we now live will continue indefinitely. The Lord has said that in the last days he will send a hailstorm which will destroy the crops of the earth, and President Woodruff said that the time would come when the Latterday Saints would supply themselves with the things which they need to Camera Clix, New York wear and to eat and to keep themselves warm, or they would go without. I urge you not to fail to have in each of your homes, from your own production wherever possible, enough of the basic necessities of life to last you at least a year. May the Lord bless you in all" your work, I humbly pray. ADORATION OF THE SHEPHERDS From a Painting by Axel Helstedt RY *§ & & She Sign | Miranda Snow Walton When Joseph came to Bethlehem, With Mary by his side, They found no place within its walls In which they could abide. They mingled with the motley crowds Until the day was gone, Then found strange haven in a stall, With straw to lie upon. They heard men scoff at Holy Writ, They saw men drunk with wine, They heard men cry, "We could believe, If God would send a sign." That night when Mary's Son was born And earth received her King, Only shepherds saw the star And heard the angels sing. The Annual General Relief Society Conference October 3 and 4, 1951 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer ord, 1518 stake and mission officers, characterized the annual general Relief Society conference held on Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, 1951. President Belle S. Spafford presided at all the sessions and all members of the general board were in attendance. 'The three sessions held in the Assembly Hall for stake and mission officers and board members, and the general session in the Tabernacle, were filled to capacity by faithful and devoted Relief Society officers and members. At the roll call held in the Officers Meeting on Thursday morning, every stake in the Church, except St. Johns and South Carolina, was represented. The mission Relief Society presidents were not in attendance at the conference, but district and branch officers of twelve missions, including representatives from the British, Canadian, and New Zealand Missions were present. The meetings on Wednesday consisted of presentations of the education courses. 'The congregational singing was led by Sister Florence J. Madsen, with Beverly B. Glauser at the organ for all the music in the Assembly Hall. A practical demonstration of a song practice of the song, "Come, Let Us Sing an Evening Hymn," by Tracy Y. Cannon, was conducted by FlorJHE largest attendance on recence J. Madsen, with Beverly J. Pond at the piano and Beverly B. Glauser at the organ. Following the afternoon session, five departmental meetingswere held simultaneously from 2:30 to 3:30 P. M.: Indian relations, secretaries, Relief Society Magazine, music, and work meeting., Wednesday night the annual reception for stake and mission officers and board members was held in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah. For this occasion, the beautiful music was furnished by Rilla Reiger, Afton Woffinden, Afton Solomon, Lucile McDonald, and ~ Mildred Wilson. On Thursday morning at the Officers Meeting two beautiful piano and organ duets, "Caprice Alceste de Gluck" by Saint-Saens, and "Kamenoi Ostrow" by Anton Rubenstein, were played by Zorah Horne Jeppson and Beverly Brown Glauser. The general session held Thursday afternoon included addresses by President Stephen L Richards and President Belle S. Spafford. The spirit of that wonderful meeting was enhanced by the singing of 556 Singing Mothers from the Jordan Valley Region; Alpine, Lehi, Orem, Sharon, and 'Timpanogos Stakes, under the direction of Sister Florence J. Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. Page 817 Report and Official Instructions General President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] E are grateful for the growth of Relief Society as evidenced by the increased number of ward and branch societies. At the close of 1950 there were 2,981 such organizations (just. Nineteen below the 3,000 mark), an increase of 143 over the previous year. In 1950 there were five new stake organizations created, one new mission, the West Central States, and the Central Pacific Mission was combined with the Hawaiian. "I'wenty-eight stake boards have been reorganized and twelve missions. We acknowledge with gratitude the contributions to the growth of Relief Society made by past officers, and extend to those of you who are now filling the positions, our sincere best wishes for happiness and success in the work to which you have been called. Missions The foreign missions continue to show steady growth in membership, with a broadening development of the Relief Society program. Membership The society now has a membership of 126,550, an increase of 4,640 over 1949. 'The increase of Relief Society members in the missions exceeded the increase in number of Latter-day Saint families, while in the stakes the increase in members did not keep pace with the increase in number of Latter-day Saint families. Page 818 It is my opinion that a considerable proportion of the unenrolled Latter-day Saint women are the young mothers. I make an especial appeal in behalf of these young women. 'They so need the influence, the strength, the direction in rearing their children that can come > to them from Relief Society. Some wards are almost exclusively young couples, buying homes, rearing children, meeting the strains of modern social and economic life. 'These young women need the fortification offered by Relief Society and the rich association with our choice, experienced Relief Society members. Within the limits of reasonableness and good judgment, make possible their attendance at meetings. For example, it would not be out of line with Handbook instructions to adjust the meeting hour from afternoon to morning or evening, if the convenience of the greatest number of the sisters of the ward so directed. Be tolerant of young mothers if they bring children who may be a bit restless, or if their attendance is, of necessity, somewhat irregular. Encourage them to take part. There is so much we may learn from them, and they need the outlet provided by Relief Society for the expression of their talents and the application of the splendid training which most of them have received. Bear in mind that Relief Society membership goals are not set high in order that we may boast of a REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS society large in numbers, but that we may touch the hearts, enrich the lives, strengthen the hands, direct along Church approved paths, all Latter-day Saint women. Average Attendance The percentage of members represented by the average attendance at regular meetings during 1950 was 34.01, am increase of 1.64 over 1949. While we are grateful for increases in average attendance figures, we remind you again we do not wish them at a cost of ill-considered dropping of names from membership rolls or of refusing to enroll women who cannot attend or whose attendance may necessarily be irregular. In view of the large number of Latter-day Saint women still unenrolled in Relief Society, and because of the increasing number of our members now being employed, which is bound to affect attendance, we suggest that stake presidents encourage ward presidents to make definite plans for the forthcoming season to deal with these problems. 'There is no substitute for personal visits; membership and attendance committees might well be appointed. Enlist the talents of inactive women for work meeting activities, enlarge Singing Mother choruses by drawing in women with musical talent and interests, evaluate the quality of regular meetings. See that social activities are attractive and that they reach out to include potential as well as enrolled members. Educational Program The educational courses offered by the society apparently are well Relief Society 819 received by the members. There are 10,018 class leaders engaged in teaching the courses, an increase of goo over 1949. Book of Mormon Reading Program Yesterday the theology committee chairman presented a program to encourage Latter-day Saint women to read The Book of Mormon in connection with the five-year course of study on The Book of Mormon just commencing in Relief Society. It was suggested that stake officers promote this reading program but that the detailed carrying out of it be left to ward officers to work out. It was felt that the visiting teachers might acquaint all the sisters in the homes with the reading program and might in May or June, inquire if the sisters had completed the reading of The Book of Mormon covered by that year's lessons. If this method is used, a check could be placed in the "Remarks" column of the visiting teacher book opposite the name of any sister who has done the suggested reading. In this way the ward secretary could easily make a count of the number of women of the ward who have read the suggested readings for each lesson season. During the summer months the general board will ask for the number of women of each stake who have completed the assigned reading in The Book of Mormon for that year. We urge presidents to give their full support to this reading program. However, they might appropriately delegate to counselors in charge of education the responsibility for announcing the program and working 820 out details for furthering it. (See _also "Notes to the Field," page $33 of this Magazine.) Work Meeting We are encouraged over the growing strength of the work meeting. Even though Welfare sewing budget assignments were greatly reduced, the number of hours of work meeting sewing increased from 1,154,763 to 1,249,613 or an increase of 94,850 hours. 'There was an increase of 1,658 in the number of articles completed. However, during 1950, only 29.2 per cent, or less than one-third of the Relief Society members, participated in the sewing program. The homemaking activities other than sewing, conducted in the work meeting during the past year have been varied, practical, and of interest to the sisters, and reflect resourcefulness and better planning on the part of leaders. Sewing Machines For the information of those societies still without sewing machines, we are advised by the Church Purchasing Department that they have on hand three different standard makes of sewing machines. All are models suitable for use by Relief Society and may be purchased by Relief. Societies at a discount over the retail price. Those who are interested may inquire of Brother Acomb at the Church Administration Building, who is prepared to show you the machines. Selling and Soliciting Reports reaching the office indicate that some wards conduct a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 weekly gift shop sale; that is, they offer for sale each week articles made by the sisters rather than to hold an annual bazaar. Since we are not familiar with the individual circumstances under which this activity is conducted we do not wish to rule arbitrarily with regard to it. However, we do caution wards with respect to doing anything which might place the society in a position of seeming to be constantly promoting selling or money-making activities. Nor do we wish the members to be continually burdened by requests to make or contribute articles to be sold by the: society— which might easily be the case where a sale is conducted weekly or even monthly. In line with this, we would also discourage regularly placing a receptacle on the table or desk into which members are invited to place cash contributions, be they ever so small. It is the general policy of Relief Society to keep regular meetings as free from cash solicitations or from selling activities as possible. I am sure you fully appreciate the reason for this. We do not want the sisters attending the regular meetings to be placed in a position where they might stay away because they cannot or do not wish to support such activities. Also, we remind you that the annual bazaar has a social value which we see lacking in a weekly gift shop sale of articles. Welfare The contribution of Relief Society to the Church Welfare Program and the response of the sisters to calls made of them in this very important work of the Church REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS is greatly appreciated. Although the number of hours of service on Church Welfare projects decreased by 22,697, due to fewer calls, still 238,090 hours of service were contributed. 'There were 33,488 articles completed for Church Welfare at Relief Society meetings, a decrease of 11,603 due to decreased clothing budget assignments. The increased hours of service on Church Welfare projects, exclusive of work meetings, contributed by women receiving aid was noteworthy. These sisters contributed 47,000 hours, or about one fifth of the total hours contributed by Relief Society. 'There was an increase of ninety in the number of women receiving aid who sewed at work meetings, and an increase of fortytwo in the number who sewed for themselves and their families. There were 7,491 initial visits made by Relief Society ward presidents, under the direction of their respective bishops, during 1950, to families in need, an increase of 249 over the previous year. 'There were 17,525 subsequent visits, an increase of 3,405. The larger increase in the number of follow-up visits in proportion to the increased number of initial visits indicated a growing sense of responsibility toward a continued interest in the families served, as well as better welfare practices in administering to their needs. We commend the ward presidents for this service. Compassionate Services The substantial increase in the number of visits to the sick and homebound, and in day's care of the sick indicates a pronounced 821 awareness of our responsibility to alleviate human suffering. During 1950 there were 182,358 visits made to the sick and homebound, an increase over 1949 Of over 26,000 visits. I like to feel that this large increase is indicative of an increasing general awareness of our responsibility to the aged. 'There were 21,640 eight-hour days care given to the sick during 1950, an increase over the previous year of over 5,000 days. In this day of nurse shortages this is a very significant social contribution. The service rendered in time of death is also praiseworthy. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching, which retains a very important welfare aspect, showed an increase of 196,433 visits over 1949. There were 1,910,662 visits made during 1950, or an average of 7.4 visits to each Latter-day Saint family. Were we fully realizing 'our aim there would be twelve visits to each Latter-day Saint family. However, the 7.4 visits per family is a highly creditable record. We suggest that stake presidents further encourage ward presidents to make use of the ten minutes allotted them in the visiting teachers meeting. The general board is pleased with the splendid visiting teacher conventions conducted by stakes during the past year. Some of the most effective conventions have been those wherein the sisters within the stakes have themselves pres- 'ented the program. 'The general board wishes to encourage this practice. It disapproves of groups of stakes joining together for visiting teacher conventions. 822 Union Meetings The same is true with regard to combining for union meeting. The general board sees no need for union meetings during the summer months. Magazine _ We are very grateful for the loyal support given The Relief Society Magazine and for the thorough, efficient way in which Magazine representatives conduct their work. The Magazine circulation as of December 31 was 92,598, or an increase of 8,547 over 1949. New Records for Magazine Representatives Yesterday in the Magazine Department Sister Evon Peterson presented some new printed forms in a loose-leaf binder prepared by the Magazine circulation department and designed to help Magazine representatives in the conduct of their work. 'These forms have been tried out for many months by a few representatives living in close proximity to the office, to judge their value. Stake presidents, please discuss these forms with your representa- _ tives who attended the Magazine Department yesterday, and acquaint your ward presidents with their value. They are now available for purchase at the general board office for $2. (See "Notes to the Field," page 833.) We regret to advise you that we have received word that publishing costs of the Magazine will be increased 10% effective immediately. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 We have anticipated this for some time, together with an increase in postal rates. We feel it would be a very serious matter to increase the subscription price at the present time in order to meet this increased cost. Rather will we watch developments for the time being and call' upon you to continue your subscription efforts. We report this matter to you so that in the eventuality of an increase in subscription price, in order to maintain our Magazine, you will understand. "Notes From the Field" Today, in speaking of the Magazine I wish especially to call your attention to the rules published in the Handbook, page 123, governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field." Because of the growing number of stakes and missions, we can now guarantee the publication of only one report annually from each stake and mission. Material must be submitted through the stake or mission and not directly from the local society. It must deal with organization activities and not with those of individual members. A concise report of the activity should accompany the illustration or picture. (Do not send more than one picture.) Pictures must be clear, black-and-white glossy prints. Do not send negatives. Identifying information should be written on the back of the picture or securely attached to it. Make sure the material you submit is selected in the light of what you wish to have represent your stake or mission in this historical record and see REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS that it serves the purposes for are this section is designed. The Family Hour Reports from the stakes are indeed gratifying with regard to the success of the Family Hour. 'This important activity seems to be taking hold. Stakes and wards have been diligent and resourceful in promoting it. Please continue your efforts. Indian Relations Work We also commend you sisters for your splendid work in connection with the Indian Relations Committees. Your accomplishments are praiseworthy. Temple Clothes Sister Simonsen, who has charge of the general board's temple and burial clothing department, has asked me to advise you, particularly those of you who are new in your positions, that this department is prepared to supply not only templeburial clothing but temple clothing for use in the temples. A number of stakes have asked the advice of the general board with regard to their stake boards entering into the making of this clothing for sale. Since the general board can supply persons with this clothing as fast as bus, rail, or plane can reach them, and in view of the responsibility entailed in obtaining and caring for materials, and in obtaining the services of skilled seamstresses, as well as the great care necessary in handling the clothing, we would not think it advisable for you to enter into making temple clothing unless you are so far removed from the gen- 823 eral board headquarters as to make _it impractical to obtain it from here. Week-Day Ward Auxiliary Conferences There is a growing practice among stake Priesthood authorities of holding ward auxiliary conference sessions during the week of the regular ward conference. Some stake presidents also schedule a preliminary officers meeting in connection with these conferences. The questions are asked as to whether such conferences are in lieu of the November Fast Sunday evening meeting designated by the general board for the annual ward Relief Society conference; and whether or not the preliminary session may serve in lieu of the preliminary session of the November meeting. The weekday conference conducted under the direction of the local Priesthood authorities is not in lieu of the November annual ward Relief Society conference since it reaches only the Relief Society members and not the ward membership as does the November meeting. If the preliminary session brings together the same workers and accomplishes the same purposes as the November preliminary meeting, then we would see no reason to repeat this session. Activities Conflicting With Conference Sessions We suggest that Relief Society officers, as such, avoid scheduling activities or accepting invitations for themselves, or their workers, to functions or gatherings held during the hours of general Church conference sessions for the general Church membership. Christmas at Welcome Inn Pansye H. Powell Elise Brandon said, as her little maid placed a huge bowl of deep red roses exactly in the center of the lace table cover on the dining room table. | Tina smiled at her mistress, and Elise smiled back happily as she took in 'at a glance the long buffet also. Centered with a bowl of red roses and the table with gleaming silver laid out for a Christmas Eve buffet supper. Elise felt she had a right to be happy. She had just come into the dining room after a last survey trip 'of her new ranch type home. Everything was perfect; the bedrooms were immaculate, the little powder. Room off the long living 66 Pris is very lovely, Tina," room was in order, and the tall Christmas tree, bright with many colored bulbs, gleamed a welcome through the wide picture window. On the hearths, in the dining room and living room, fires burned gaily. In the kitchen Marta, Elise's more-than-perfect cook, was taking the roasted turkey from the oven. On the kitchen table already were salads, relishes, and a large baked ham for slicing. Elise smiled again at Tina and walked over to the fireplace in the living room. 'Through the wide mirror over the mantel she could see the reflection of the luxuriously furnished room, the tall tree, and herself in a gold lace evening gown molded to her tall, thin figure. Her blue eyes were bright with excitement and pride as she thought Page 824 of the pleasure she and Dick would have in welcoming their friends to this housewarming. She had wanted to have it on Christmas Eve because she had known how beautifully a tall lighted tree, placed in the wide picture window of the living room, would shine out a welcome for her guests as they turned into a long lane that led from the highway to the new home of Doctor and Mrs. Brandon. She had known how charming the green garlands of holly would look on the mantels, and the Poinsettias in tall vases standing on the floor. Dick had brought the roses from town, and now the rooms were fragrant with their sweetness. The guests were to be ten young couples, professional men and their wives of Vernon, Arizona. Elise's smoothly gleaming blonde head rose proudly as she thought of the way her guests would exclaim over the tastefully furnished rooms. The dinner would be Marta's best, and, at midnight, the local carolers would be there to serenade the guests. Building the house outside the city limits had been Elise's idea. The drive into town took only a few minutes and Dick was not now at the mercy of late callers and miscellaneous sick people who had known too well the accessibility and generous unselfishness of Doctor Brandon while they lived for five years in Vernon. Now they had been in the new home two weeks, and Dick's evenings, so far, CHRISTMAS AT WELCOME INN had been Elise's. When he came home tired from his hospital duties and visits to his own patients, it was a joy to Elise to see him trelaxed and rested by the bright fire in the fireplace or, if they chose, ready to go with her into town for a show or an evening with friends. THIS was as it should be, Elise thought. A doctor must have some arate life. Out here for two weeks they had been undisturbed, and now he would be with her, on this important evening, to welcome their friends into what was easily the smartest new home in the Vernon community. Tina was busily arranging dishes on the table and bringing in food to be placed on the buffet. "Tt all looks wonderful," Elise, watching from the doorway, said as Tina set a wide dish of assorted relishes by the side of a long dish of stuffed celery. "You will be sure to remember about the telephone? Doctor Brandon is not to be disturbed this evening for any reason, Tina." "ies; Mis. Brandon," Tina answered, with a smile which showed a brilliant array of white teeth in her brown face. "I remember. I won't call him to the phone. Ill just say he's busy and cannot be disturbed—as I always do in the evening." "I know you will, Tina. You're a jewel. I can depend upon you whenever I need you. 'This is a particularly important evening for me. Do you know that in our five years of married life Doctor Brandon and I have never had a Christmas Eve together? Once it was 825 Mrs. Jameson's broken leg—that was the first Christmas; and then it was the Smith boy's pneumonia. Dick sat up all Christmas Eve with that boy on our second anniversary; and then it's been, oh, something or other every Christmas since. Tonight's going to be different if I can make it so, and I think I can if you will help." The door chimes interrupted Flise. She gave a quick glance into the mirror over the mantel. The golden sheath of her gown fitted perfectly. Her yellow hair, burnished with much brushing, was a sleek coronet for a small, proud head. Mrs. Doctor Brandon was ready to receive guests. Doctor Brandon would be with her in a few minutes to stand by her and — welcome their friends. Elise waited by the fireplace as Elbertina went to the door. * ek * OWN the road that led to Vernon, past Dick and Elise Brandon's new home, Jose Montoya's old Ford was making its decrepit way toward the town. It shook with ague as it limped along. Jose hunched over the wheel; his dark eyes frequently glanced from the highway to the gasoline gauge which was falling back rapidly toward the empty mark. Now and then he gave a quick look at his wife, Maria, who said nothing, though she shared his fears that their fuel supply would not last until they reached the town. Finally she spoke. "How much farther is it, Jose?" her soft Mexican voice carried a note of strain, almost of fear. 826 "Hush, Maria. It can't be much farther. They told me there was a big hacienda to the right just before the curve that leads into the town. I think that's the building yonder." Maria sighed. If Jose said it was not far to town and a place where they could rest, it must be true. Jose was older than Maria; he had always taken good care of her. They -had traveled all day, for they were hurrying to her mother's house in New Mexico. Now Maria was very tired, but she sat patiently; she would be cared for, if she could only wait until they were safe for the night. Suddenly the Ford gave a sputtery gasp and stopped. "What is it?" Maria cried in dismay. _ "The gasoline tank is empty. I will have to get some more gasoline somewhere." Jose stepped out of the car (there was no door) and stood irresolutely looking down the road toward the low ranch type house that stood a quarter of a mile away. Maria gasped, "Oh, Jose, you won't leave me here alone? Please, Jose, take me with you. Maybe the people will let me lie down. I am so tired, Jose." Jose gently answered, "Of course, Maria. You go where I go. We must find shelter soon. If the gas had held out, we could have been in town by now. You come with me. Here, let me put my arm around you." Carefully he led her down the road. Soon they could see a bright window in the house; in the window stood a big, lighted tree. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 "Oh, it is beautiful," Maria cried, "Dut it is so far to walk." "Courage, Maria," Jose answered. "See, here is the gate. What does the sign say?" Maria could read English. Jose could not. She read: Welcome Inn. Our Latchstring Is Always Out. "Oh, Jose, they will help us to get to town. See, it says they are glad when people come to their house. Let us hurry." * Ke OK * INUTES later the bright new chimes in Elise Brandon's home rang musically, and Elbertina hurried to the door. When no one entered the house and Elise could hear Elbertina in conversation with someone at the door, she walked over to the little entrance hall to investigate. Elbertina stood in the doorway, facing two young people who were obviously of Mexican origin. The man, hat in hand, was looking at the little maid with pleading eyes. The girl stood at a little distance on the front walk. She was gazing at Elbertina, too, but there was fear as well as pleading in her eyes. "What is this, Tina?" Elise queried sharply. She didn't like having this couple at the front door where her guests would be arriving at any minute. The girl was obviously ill, and the man appeared to be a laborer. _ "They are in trouble, Mrs. Brandon," Tina answered. "He says they need gasoline for their car which they left down near the gate to the place." "Well, can't you take them around to Tony and let him give them what they need?' CHRISTMAS AT WELCOME INN Tina hesitated. Mrs. Brandon could see as well as she that they needed more than a few gallons of gasoline. Then she spoke up bravely, "The girl's time has come upon her too soon. They have been working in California and meant to go to her people in New Mexico, but the trip has been too much and." | A low moan escaped Maria's lips in spite of her efforts to suppress iff Elise thought rapidly. Get her away, she thought, before Dick sees her or he'll bring her right into the house now. | She glanced toward the hall that led into the bedrooms. Dick was not in sight. "Take them around the house to Tony's quarters and let him help them on to town." Then she spoke to Jose. "When you reach Vernon, go at once to Dr. Ferguson's. You will pass it on the left side of the road, about a mile from here. He will help your wife." LISE watched as Tina put her arm around Maria and led her and Jose around to the back of the house. For a second she felt a quiver of remorse; then she shrugged her shoulders, closed the door, and walked back to her station by the mantel. She was standing there, a picture of poised beau- -ty, when Doctor Brandon came leisurely into the room. He stopped to look at her, then walked toward her with arms outstretched and happiness in his eyes. "Musn't touch," Elise laughed. "I break. One of your bear hugs and I would rip out at the seams." 827 She linked her arm through his and planted a quick kiss on his smoothshaven cheek. Elise had just cause to be proud of her six-foot husband. Dick Brandon was a leading physician of Vernon, chief surgeon on the hospital staff, and recognized in larger cities of the state as an expert diagnostician. Now his handsome dark face turned to Elise as he questioned, "Thought someone had arrived. Didn't I hear Elbertina at the door?" "Oh, that was some tramps wanting help. I had her send them around to Tony. He'll take care of them." Dick laughed. "Tony's so softhearted he'll probably put them up in his own quarters. Well, I guess on Christmas Eve we can all afford to be a little more generous than usual, so [ll not bother them." Elise's heart missed a beat. What if Tony had put them up, as Dick suggested, in his quarters in the barn? Surely he wouldn't; it was only a little over a mile to town. Still, that girl looked ready to faint if she didn't lie down soon. Elise pushed the thought of the worried young couple out of her mind. Someone would take care of them in turn, and she would have her husband with her. She greeted her guests and gloried in their exclamations over the interior decoration of the house. As she led the admiring group into the large master bedroom, she glanced out toward the old barn which had been converted into modern quarters for the three servants, Tony, Elbertina, and Marta. Lights were on in 828 Tony's room, but that didn't mean anything. 'Tony was not helping in the house, and the old man had probably gone over to the place to go to bed early. Still a little worry crept into Elise's mind. What if the child were born out there? Dick would never forgive her, even though it had been her longing for him that had prompted her to send them away. An exclamation from one of her friends recalled her to her social duties. Alt the other guests had followed Dick to the basement game room. Only Muriel Grimes, one of Elise's talkative friends, had remained with her. Now Muriel was standing in the doorway of an unfurnished room that opened from the master bedroom. Elise had not meant to show this room, but Muriel had inquisitively tried the knob. "Oh," Muriel was saying, "is this to be the nursery?" 'Then she chattered on, without waiting for an answer, "Lucky little fellow he'll be when he does arrive. A fine doctor for a dad and a beautiful home, to say nothing of his mama. Some kids do have all the luck. Coming up the drive just now we met an odd-looking couple walking toward the gate. She looked as though she could hardly walk. They seemed foreigners. What a time to be walking the road! Had they been here? He was carrying a can of gasoline, I guess. We saw a car stopped on the other side of the gate. Well, all I say is some people are born to luck and some are just born!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 Muriel had rattled on without - noticing Elise's abstracted listening to her chatter. Now Elsie spoke. "Hadn't we better move on down with the others, Muriel? Yes, this is to be the nursery." As Elise and Muriel returned to the living room, from which steps at the far end descended to the basement recreation room, Elise saw Tony standing just inside the dining room door that opened into the kitchen. He was obviously em- _ barrassed; his dingy hat was crushed in his hands, and he seemed at a loss how to proceed. Elise led Muriel to the steps to the basement, then hurried to Tony and pushed him aside into the shelter of the dining room bay. "What is it, Tony?" she demanded., "Please," 'Tonys cracked old voice was beseeching. "I want the doctor. 'The little woman—she is so sick." "Who is sick? You know we have guests, and the doctor is not to be disturbed when he has company." "The little Mexican wife. They could not get their car to run, and they came back to me. I put them in my room in the barn. She is in pain, great pain. I must get the doctor." Elise could hear the guests starting up the steps from their tour of the basement. She spoke rapidly. "Tony, we will have to get those people off the place. Get out the car you use and take them to Dr. Ferguson—at once!" (Continued on page 866) HRISTMAS month, and never was the compassion which the Savior felt for all humanity more needed than for the world's humanity today! Never was it more needful to open spiritually blinded eyes to his plan of righteousness! LANCHE KENDALL MCcKEY, poet and playwright, and long a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, placed first in the Utah Poetry Society Contest, held in October. Her poem "Birthday" is considered outstanding in theme and technique. Mrs. McKey, who has spent much of her life in Washington, D. C., last year won five awards in contests sponsored by the Washington Chapter of the American Pen Women. Ouida Johns Pedersen placed second in the Utah contest, and Lael W. Hill, who has written many fine poems for The Relief Society Magazine, received the third place award. ADAME VINCENT AURIOL, deeply respected First Lady of France, holds the French Medal of Resistance for her courageous service during the wartime occupation of her country. For two years She lived under a false identity and helped the resistance movement by decoding allied messages. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Q)LIVE W. BURT, well-known contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently added two new volumes to her long list of books. Appealing to youthful readers are Cloud Girl, a story of the Navajos, and Jedediah Smith, Fur Trapper of the Old West. These books are replete with adventure set against the colorful background of mesas and mountains. N Alaska and Hawaii opportunities for women are becoming recognized. One of the largest manufacturers of soy sauce and bead molasses in the world is Mrs. Goichi Miyashiro of Honolulu. Mrs. Helen Mellick, of Sand Point, Alaska, and Mrs. Josci Sandvik of Uganik, Alaska, operate salmon-canning factories of which they are the owners. MBS. HENRIETTA L. GORDON, information secretary for the Child Welfare League of America, addressed a regional child welfare workshop at the University of Utah in September. She stressed the value of religion as an ethical basis for personal, family, and_business life. She also emphasized the care and love which must be given to children, and observed that juvenile delinquency arises from the unsatisfied needs of childhood. Page 829 O-5 EDITORIAL ~o VOL. 38 DECEMBER 1951 NO. 12 She One Hundred Swenty-second Semi-annual Conference of the Church HE peace that passeth understanding possessed the hearts of the Latter-day Saints gathered in the great Tabernacle for the 122d semi-annual conference of the Church on October 5, 6, and 7. Joy and thanksgiving were mirrored on the faces of the vast congregation as their prophet-leader President David O. McKay warned and exhorted the saints to live the commandments of the Lord. The sanctity of. Marriage and parenthood, the basic responsibilities of the home were injunctions weighted upon the souls of the Latter-day Saints. Again and again was the plea made by the General Authorities that the saints should set their houses in order and parents live righteous lives as examples to their children. Each member of the First Presidency spoke of the duties of parents and children in Zion. President McKay advised: Our country's most precious possession is not our vast acres of range land supporting flocks and herds; not productive farms; not our forests; not our mines nor oil wells producing fabulous wealth—our country's greatest resource is our children, our young men and women whose characters will largely determine our nation's future. If it were possible for me, this morning, to speak directly to the young men and women of the Church I would Page 830 say that you should always remember that true joy of life is found, not in physical indulgence and excesses, but in. Clean living and high thinking; in rendering to others, not inconvenience, injury or pain, but encouragement, cheer, and helpfulness. This is simply saying to them that satisfaction in daily life is found in trying to keep the simple law, "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you." ~ Right actions toward others always bring joy; wrongful deeds result in pain, and not infrequently, remorse. President Richards warned: I shall begin with the home, the most fundamental institution in our society. The foe is attacking our divinely given concept that marriage is an eternal compact between a priest and a priestess of the Most High, charged with thesacred mission of bringing children into the world, and then guiding them safely back into the presence of God, whence their spirits came The fulfillment of this mission involves sacrifice. 'The evergrowing practice of the world would eliminate that sacrifice. It would have them [women] better educated in general culture and in civic responsibilities, which sounds very good and seems highly desirable, except for one serious flaw in the program. This worldly practice in many instances takes a woman out of her home so much of the time, and absorbs her attention to such an extent, that she cannot and does not give to her family the loving, patient, intelligent care which they so much de- ~ serve and need. EDITORIAL President Clark exhorted: Sisters, when you think of what a child is, the mortal tabernacle of a spint created by our Heavenly Father, a mortal tabernacle which you, with all the sacnifices that it has entailed, with all the danger that has been involved of going down into the valley of the shadow of death to bring the child forth, when you. Think of that, do you not sense how urgent, how immediate, how great is the responsibility which you have assumed? And, oh, how well the great bulk of the sisters, the mothers of the Latter-day Saints are performing that. The Lord will bless you sisters, out of the abundance of His blessings, for every sacrifice which you make for these children. And do keep close to them! And above all, you, yourselves, lead lives that will be an example to these little ones that you have brought into the world. After all, perhaps that is your greatest responsibility—to live righteously before the Lord. ' Many of the Church leaders commented upon the spirit of peace, of unity, and of worship enjoyed during the sessions of the conference. The love of the people went out to President McKay on whom has fallen the mantle of presidency. The names and work of every other President of the Church, from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to our lately departed, beloved leader President George Albert Smith, were recalled and the hope expressed that 831 they were pleased with the growth and present strength of the Church. There was universal rejoicing in the calling of Elder Marion G. Romney, one of the Assistants to the Council of the Twelve, to fill the vacancy in the Council of the Twelve, thus bringing that Quorum to its full strength. Also of interest and satisfaction were the addition of four new members as Assistants to the Twelve. They are: Elder George QO. Morris, Elder Stayner Richards, Elder ElRay L. Christiansen, and Elder John Longden. Through the radia and television the words of the leaders of the Church and gospel principles are promulgated in ever-widening areas. The spirit of the Lord was present in power throughout the sessions of the conference. All saints who were privileged to attend or to listen in, to see and hear, or who will read the printed proceedings may know through the spirit of testimony that the present great and mighty leaders of the Church are the chosen of the Lord to lead his people in the paths of righteousness. May all saints incline a listening ear, that peace may reign in their hearts and abide in_ their homes. —mMi. C. §. Grnest Lh. Wilkinson Inaugurated President of Brigham Young University FRNEST L. Wilkinson was invested with the office of President of the Brigham Young University at impressive ceremonies conducted by President David O. McKay on October 8, 1951, in the large new fieldhouse at Brigham Young University. The charge was given by President Stephen L Richards, First Counselor in the First 832 Presidency. In his reply President Wilkinson manifested a spirit of humility and soberness, revealing at the same time the characteristics of force, of ability, and high resolve which augur well for the progress of the great Brigham Young University during his administration. The main address was delivered by Dr. Wilbur LaRoe Jr., who set forth the causes of the world's suffering today, and emphasized the need to carry the principles of God and the intelligence of God into every area of life.. In accepting the charge laid down by President Richards, President Wilkinson pledged: I accept without any mental or other reservation, every instruction contained in that charge and ask that I may be supported not only by your faith and prayers, but by your continued faithfulness in the payment of tithing and in sending your sons and daughters, and in the giving of other generous contributions to this school It is the mission of this school to develop men of God and to assist in persuading the world that Christianity holds the only key to peace RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 195] I conceive it to be the mission of this school to understand and remember His Mission, and to prepare the world for the advent of the Millennium, when Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and there will be war no more. In the meantime, we can all participate in the blessings of the Master when he said. "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest" (Matt. 11:28). To that end I dedicate the services of the faculty and myself. Following the investiture proceedings, a luncheon was tendered honored guests and delegates representing universities and learned societies, at which President Reuben Clark Jr., Second Counselor in the First Presidency, acted as master of ceremonies. A reception and inaugural ball in the evening concluded this memorable day in the history of the Brigham Young University. The general presidency of Relief Society were official delegates to the inaugural, and on behalf of the Relief Society extend to President Wilkinson and his faculty their best wishes and their active support in the great calling which has come to him. | —M. CS. Gmportance of Articles on She Constitution and, the United lations Charter The general board of Relief Society wishes to call attention to the series of four articles "Ihe Constitution and the United Nations Charter" written by Brother Albert R. Bowen, a lawyer of Salt Lake City, which concluded in the November issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Neither The Relief Society Magazine nor the articles by Brother Bowen take an adverse position with regard to the United Nations. We would urge the importance of the citizenry giving careful attention to the points contained in the articles. Voted. V0 THE FIELD New Record Book for Ward Magazine Representatives N the Magazine department at the recent annual general Relief Society conference, a new record book for ward Magazine representatives was introduced. This book is a three-ring, loose-leaf binder containing three sections. It provides: first, for an alphabetical listing of all subscribers to the Magazine; second, for a record of expirations by months; and third, a listing of all Latter-day Saint women residing in the ward. The use of this record book is highly recommended by the general board. It will not only provide a simple and uniform method of keeping an accurate record of ward subscriptions, but, as it will be the property of the ward Relief Society, it will provide a newly appointed Magazine representative with immediate access to the necessary information in carrying on her work. The cost of the Record of Magazine Subscriptions Book is $2, postpaid. Use of Mlaterial for Sheology Lessons on She Book of Mlormon The Sunday School manual Life in Ancient America, by Leland H. Monson, writer of our own lessons, will be helpful to theology class leaders, especially in lessons 1 and 7 for 1951-52, and for the remainder of the course, inasmuch as it contains some pictures. It can be obtained for 4oc at the Deseret Sunday School Union, 50 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah. Two charts which help to place Book of Mormon events in their world setting are available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The large one, "Chronological Chart of Nephite and Lamanite History," by George Reynolds, is detailed and costs $3. 'The smaller one, "A Chronology of the Book of Mormon," by Wendell O. Rich, contains less detail and costs 75c. Neither of these charts deals with the Book of Ether, but both will be valuable for the study of the rest of 'The Book of Mormon. We advise against the use of any maps dealing with Book of Mormon locations, and against the use of books which are not authorized by the Church as approved by the Church Publications Committee.. In order to fulfill the requirement of the reading program of the theology course on The Book of Mormon, it is necessary to read The Book of Mormon itself. No credit will be given for reading any other account 'of Book of Mormon incidents. Page 833 834 Sa RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 'Sixty Years Ago, Not Included in the December Magazine Due to a crowded schedule caused by the featuring of conference addresses, new appointments to Church offices, and Christmas items, it has been found necessary to dispense with the "Sixty Years Ago" a= for the month of December. A New Serial "Uncertain Possession, 7 to Begin in Yanuary A new serial, "Uncertain Possession," by Beatrice R. Parsons, will begin in the January 1952 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. In this story the problems and achievements of a doctor's wife are told with warmth and understanding. Our readers will become acquainted with Lorna Wire, whose efforts to outgrow selfishness are closely interwoven with the lives of her husband's family and friends. The author, Beatrice R. Parsons, of Salt Lake City, is a writer of many poems, stories, and articles, which have been published in her home state and in national magazines. A member of the National Writer's Club, Mrs. Parsons has won several literary contest awards, and she finds writing an enjoyable part-time profession. Let the Holly Wreath Be Hung Margaret B. Shomaker When snow falls silent on the hill, Or flutters to my window sill, When all the paths we used to know Are hidden under drifts of snow, When Christmas songs are sweetly sung, Then let the holly wreath be hung. When 'earth is frozen silver white, And winter brings the longest night, When Santa with his reindeer stops Above the snow-capped chimney tops, When Christmas songs are sweetly sung, Then let the holly wreath be hung. Recipes for Christmas Ethel C. Smith Former Member, General Board of Relief Society HRISTMAS is in the air! Once more we look forward to the many joys of the holiday season. Our thoughts dwell gratefully on the significance of Christmas day. We anticipate the gathering of our families and friends and the exchanging of greetings and tokens of love. Important among the traditional activities of this season are the planning and preparation of choice, tempting things to eat. The old standby holiday recipes are brought out to be reviewed, and new ones we have gathered during the year are added to the file. Perhaps your file is like mine and shows the source of each recipe, bringing to mind, each time a card is taken out, the particular friend or relative who generously shared that recipe. There is no better time to exchange instructions for making some tested, much-prized dish than during these festive days when the spirit of giving is prevalent. Cookies The ever-popular cookie takes on special importance at Christmas time. There is such variety from which to choose, and cookies can be made ahead of time. One's urge to experiment with shapes, flavorings, and decorations can be given full sway. The cookie press is a very helpful gadget to have. Children love the different shapes and designs of the cookies made with it. Here is a good basic recipe for cookie dough to be used in a press: Cream well together -.------——-1 c¢. Butter (part shortening or margarine may be used) A Cc. Sugar PM ona. Paanne-neecncensensnncesenneesencne-nnscenerssensecerersenecensl. Well-beaten egg % tsp. Almond flavoring "A tsp. Vanilla flavoring or 1 tsp. Grated orange rind Sift and measure 02.2.------.0s---eceeeeececeecececeee2% c. Flour WRGSTEG Wt nnn cececcseccececececsnsenesecnnasecenenecees % tsp. Salt and % tsp. Baking powder Add gradually to mixture, mixing well. Note: If dough is not quite stiff enough to put through the cookie press, a little more flour may be added, but don't make it too stiff. These cookies should be cooked in a moderate oven (350° to 375°) for about 10 minutes. Colorful candies, chopped candied fruits, nuts, coconut, or colored sugar (made by shaking sugar in a bottle with a few drops of vegetable coloring) all make attractive decorations for these cookies. These should be put on before baking the cookies, or you may decorate them after they are baked with a glaze or frosting. Refrigerator cookies are a boon to the homemaker, because the dough can be made in large quantities and stored in the refrigerator or the freezer and baked as needed. These two recipes have proved very successful: Page 835 836 - - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 Spice Refrigerator Cookies Cream well together - -..22220.2..2 2 7 ¢. Softened butter or margarine % c. White sugar " ¢. Brown sugar (packed firmly) Add and beat well - -------ae _2 eggs and 1 tsp. Vanilla Sift amd Measure 2 -2.2-eeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee2% c. Flour Resift with 200 eeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeeereeseeseeseeeel > tsp. Soda, % tsp. Salt, 1. Tsp. Cinnamon Add gradually to mixture, beating well. Add and mix -..00..0-.--.--0--0--+-—_ a % c. Chopped walnuts Press dough into molds (a refrigerator tray may be used, or small cans from which both ends have been removed; the cans which frozen fruit juices came in are excellent). Store in the refrigerator until frm. If you wish to freeze the dough, remove from the container after it has stood until firm, and wrap for freezing. To bake, slice very thin and put on greased cookie sheet (or baking pan turned upside down) and bake in moderate oven (350° to 375°) for 10 to 15 minutes. Here is a cookie that is easy to make and always proves popular. Everyone will try to guess how it is made: _ Snow Balls Mix together thoroughly: % c. Butter (part shortening or 2 tsp. Vanilla * margarine may be used) 1% c. Ground nuts (pecans 6 tbsps. Powdered sugar ~ or walnuts): 2 c. Cake flour Roll into small balls and cook on greased cookie sheet at 300° to 325° for onehalf hour. Take out of the oven and, while still hot, roll in powdered sugar. Let cool and roll again in powdered sugar. The following recipe can be used either for cookies or a pudding: Christmas Sticks Beat well 2..-2.: cescesceee ec teceeceecenececeeeeeneeseeneeee2 eggs Add and beat together - 22-.2.200000eeee-lc. Powdered sugar and 3. Tbsp. Melted butter Sift and measure ova o-oo ge aes % c. Flour Resift with - 2..0..2..22----.-2122eeeeeee eee eeeeeeeceeeeeneees 1% tsp. Baking powder and % tsp. Salt Add to mixture and beat well. Then add. 2..22.2-: ceeeceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeceeeeeee 1 c. Chopped nuts % ¢. Chopped cherries % ¢. Chopped pineapple RECIPES FOR CHRISTMAS 837 ° Bake in well-greased pan 40 to 50 minutes at 350°. When baked, cool in pan and cut in narrow strips, two or three inches long. Roll in powdered sugar. Note: This is delicious if cut in squares and served warm with whipped cream. Fruitcake 3 eae Courtesy, General Foods FRUITCAKE FOR CHRISTMAS In Christmas cooking, the spotlight is generally focused on the fruitcake. There are many personal preferences as to this delicacy. Some like it dark and spicy; others like it light in color, without spices; some like it heavy with fruits and nuts; while others like it with fewer fruits. Here is a recipe that is somewhat different, and is the favorite at our house. Perhaps you will enjoy it, too: 1 c. Butter "2 tsp. Allspice 3c. Brown sugar (packed firmly) "A tsp. Nutmeg 5 4a 2 pounds pitted dates i c. Smilk "2 pound candied cherries large bottle maraschino cherries c. Chopped walnuts c. Chopped pecans tsps. Vanilla 3% c. All-purpose flour 4 tsps. Baking powder 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cinnamon "' tsp. Cloves N N N - 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 195] Cut dates and cherries in small pieces and soak in.4 to % c. Maraschino cherry juice. Soak overnight or until fruit has absorbed the juice. Cut nuts in pieces and put in large kettle or frying pan with a small amount of melted butter. Toast over slow heat, stirring frequently, until just slightly browned (be sure not to get too brown). Let cool. Cream butter and add one half the sugar. Beat until light and fluffy. In another bowl beat the egg yolks until very thick and lemon-colored; then add the remaining 'sugar. Beat until light and fluffy and combine the two sugar mixtures, thoroughly beating together. Sift flour and measure. Then resift three times with the baking powder, salt, and spices. Add dry ingredients and milk alternately, beginning and ending with an addition of the dry ingredients. Beat well after each addition. Add vanilla. Fold in stiffly-beaten egg whites. Last, mix in the fruit and nuts which have been previously mixed together and lightly dredged with some of the flour. Line loaf pans with waxed paper and grease well. Pour in batter and bake in slow oven (250°) for two hours, if bread-loaf size tins are used. I sometimes bake it in small loaf tins (2%" x 5"), which takes only about one hour's baking time. This makes three of the large cakes and eight small ones of the size mentioned. Steamed Pudding Steamed pudding is a holiday "must," and there are many varieties. This one is easy to make and is very nutritious: SOak. O eeeeneeeeceneneceeeececneececceccccececcccececcecececeecens lc. Whole wheat bread crumbs in 1 c. Milk Thoroughly cream together 2.22:-:::00000+ " ¢. Butter "2 ¢. Brown sugar (packed firmly) Add to soaked crumbs. Sift amd measure 222 -2--ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee lc. Whole wheat flour Resift with. 2.22-.22.2.2--22esseeeececteeceeeeneeeeeeeeees-1 tsp. Soda | % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Cinnamon Stir into crumb mixture and mix thoroughly. IME 1) oennnnneennsnnennneececneneeacarnerencnensesecsecneneencenes "2 C. Chopped nuts 1 ~~ c. Seedless raisins lc. Chopped maraschino cherries Fill greased pudding mold, cans, or bottles two-thirds full, cover tightly, and steam for two hours. Note: If pint-size, wide-mouth fruit jars are used, with new lids, they will seal in the process of steaming, and the pudding will keep for a long time. Lemon Sauce Mix together ---ee 2 oe # c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Cornstarch or 1% tbsps. Flour Add gradually, stirring well - -.-- -.--::0-+lc. Boiling water Boil for five minutes. Remove from heat and add 1% tbsp. Lemon juice dash of nutmeg 2 tbsp. Butter.. Dash of salt Planning a Christmas Sable Marian R. Boyer HE first thing to remember in decorating your Christmas table is to choose one idea. Then play it up in a clever way, but don't bring in a confusion of ideas or too fussy and detailed ornaments. Simplicity is beauty. ) The basis and foundation upon which to arrange your decorations is the tablecloth, therefore, you must first decide what kind and color of tablecloth you are going to use before you can begin your decorating. ~ Red Indian head material, seamed together and edged with white fringe, makes a perfect setting for a centerpiece of contrasting colored large candles bedded in sprays of holly and pine cones painted gold. You can easily make these striking candles yourself. Simply heat a number of old candles until they are completely melted and pour into molds to cool. For molds, you may use old tennis ball cans, milk cartons, or the cardboard center of a roll of wax paper. When the tallow begins to set, insert an old candle in the center, which will serve as a wick. Finished candles can be touched with gilt, or add wax crayons to the hot tallow to make them a desired color. Also, you may attach holly in a spiral pattern on the candles while they are still warm or attach with heated pins. There are many stickers on the market that are very decorative when pasted on an _ inexpensive cloth or a white sheet. Gold stars scattered on a plain-colored cloth do much to add an air of festivity. Courtesy Franciscan Fine China If you prefer white linen, add two bands of red ribbon running the length of the table, about a foot apart. Starting from the center, arrange candles with long sprays of pine and holly trailing toward the end of the table. The candles add height and balance. Remember, when you use large candles, it is usually best to have three or five. For another holiday suggestion, tie a large white bell with a red bow and let it fall on its side spilling out holly and pine cones arranged artistically on the cloth. Your dinner will taste better, and it will add to the fun and excitement of any holiday, if you take the time to plan your table for the occasion. Page 839 Through This Door CHAPTER 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Mary Ruth Grayson, who tries to care for her father and motherless brothers and sisters, is helped and encouraged by Rachel Marriott, who comes to live in the shabby house across the street. Mrs. Marriott, who was once wealthy, begins a profitable sewing business making dresses for little girls. In high school Mary Ruth falls in love with Tom Mack. ~ Later, she becomes acquainted with Chris Jordan, a nephew of Mrs. Marriott who plans to become a doctor. Mary Ruth decides to take a nurse's training course, and, in order to help pay her expenses, she works as a maid in the home of Mrs. Williams, who has moved to the city. HERE was a schedule, neatly typed and hung in my room. It outlined every hour. "Rise at six, bathe, dress, prepare your own breakfast. Wash your own dishes" (so no slightest trace of my presence would be apparent), dust the shelves and the brica-brac and the stools, while waiting for the family." _. Mr. Williams always sauntered in first, unfolding his morning paper, sliding on the stool at the breakfast bar. He ordered his breakfast as though he were in a restaurant, and I prepared and brought it to him. Most of the time he grunted his morning greeting. Then Connie came. In, dressed for school, and_ usually whining because she was still sleepy. But for Connie I felt love and pity. She was so lonely, so bored with herself, always wanting to know what to do. Then after they had gone Thelma Williams came in for her own breakfast. Page 840 For her, nothing was ever quite as it should be, the eggs were overdone, or underdone, the toast too hot or too cold. The first week I would sink down on the stool after she had gone, exhausted before the day had begun.. After the breakfast came the cleaning. There was a day to clean every room. Monday was _ the kitchen, every cupboard, every utensil, every appliance, window, doors, and floors must be scrubbed, waxed, polished to a high gloss. At home we did the cupboards four times a year. Tuesday the bedrooms were given the same minute care, Wednesday the bathrooms and the silver, Thursday the dining room and all the woodwork in the house gone over for finger prints, Friday the living room, and all the inside windows, Saturday the rumpus room, my room, and the ironing. In between were lunches, dinners, refreshments for the endless stream of guests. I wondered how much would be expected of me when school began. Thelma Williams was very brisk on that point. "I'll make the beds, of course, and wash the breakfast dishes. I know you won't mind getting up earlier to get your portion done each day." -I was accustomed to hard work, but much of this seemed senseless to me. I was lonely and homesick. I didn't know a soul in the city. THROUGH THIS DOOR Mrs. Williams rarely spoke except to give orders. 'That was almost unbearable, after the years of neighboring up and down the block. The parties were hardest. I sat in the kitchen, waiting my cue toTM serve the late suppers, and listened to the laughter and the quick, joyous voices, and a longing to be part of it was almost more than I could endure. ONE Friday night I brought in the hot dishes for the buffet supper. I wore a black and white uniform for this. Someone called my name. It was Chris Jordan. He came over to me gladly from the group around the piano. He looked tall and well now, with a deep tan. His smile shone warmly. "Mary Ruth, why bless your heart." He shook my hand and stood looking down on me with an eagerness that made me draw back. "Aunt Rachel said you were here." He lowered his voice, "She's worried about you, the princess in the prison tower." He nodded toward Mrs. Williams, who was frowning in his direction. "Is she a little on the witch side, or does she just ride her broom on Wednesdays?" I couldn't help laughing, and the sound of it brought curious eyes in our direction. "I I have to go," I told him, because I could see Mrs. Williams bearing down on us. "I could get you out of the dungeon for an hour or so tomorrow afternoon... Or wouldn't your young man like that?" "Thank you," I said, "it's kind of you but I can't. Besides I 841 have to get ready for school starts on Monday." "Aunt Rachel sends her love," he said. -To my embarrassment, tears flooded my eyes. I hurried from the room. Tom's picture was on my dresser. His eyes laughed into mine whenever I looked at him a certain way. His letters were in the top drawer. I read them all, and something of his joyousness and his sense of fun, and his strength seemed to flow into me. But the nights grew lonelier and lonelier. I spent a good deal of them lying awake, staring up at the high basement window, where the moonlight crept among the iris. I thought of the bedrooms at home, all the laughter and talk that went on before we fell asleep, the scuffling sounds from the boys' room, the radio from Callister's house pouring hit tunes into the night. Oh, at home was never this silence, night after night, with the lovelessness to greet one in the morning, and the chill orders. Then there was the loneliness of the teeming campus, where there was never time to make friends, nor a place to bring them if I did. People had to have words with other people, as they had to have bread. When I turned over, 'Tom's letters crackled under my pillow. I stretched up my hand and touched them gently. How is it with you, Tom? O the first night of November I knew. Down in my bedroom I was awakened at three by the sound of the front doorbell and 842 the heavy measured steps of Mr. Williams. I listened to his steps pausing at the front 'door, then marching across the living room, through the kitchen, down the stairs. I sat upright, my heart pounding. The steps moved across the rumpus room toward my own. I got up and groped for my robe and slippers. Mr. Williams knocked at the door and I flung it open. He held out the yellow envelope. "For you, my dear, I hope it isn't bad news." He waited while I read it. I lifted my face to him and said quietly, "They say Tom was killed. In an automobile accident, but of course they are mistaken." He took the paper from me, and I went back into my room. I went from closet to bed, not remembering where I had put my bags. I opened drawers and started piling my things on the bed. Mr. Williams came in the room. "What are you doing? Look, Mary Ruth, you can't go anywhere now. Please... Wait, Ill get Thelma." I sat when he insisted and rose at once when he left. All inside me there was one thing that filled me with fear, that I should forget the sound of Tom's voice. I remembered it with all my might, the clearness of it and the depth. I gathered up fiercely and hurriedly all the things he had said, so they wouldn't be lost. Thelma Williams came down in. Her robe and slippers, her hair up in pin curls. "I'm sorry, Mary Ruth." She looked at the bed. "You aren't going away?" Dismay was in the tones. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 I remembered then the luncheon for her club was the next day. She had a right to be perturbed about my not being there. But I had to get home and walk about the places where 'om and I had walked, and stand in the dusty place before the tram stop where I had seen him last. - "Mary — Ruth, go " I didn't answer at all. I remembered the bags were in the fruit room, and I went past her to find them. What of the playgrounds? The gym teacher for the youngsters? All that was done now, and my nursing as well. Because, without Tom and his letters and the wall he built for me, I didn't have it in me to face another day of the pink kitchen and the endless windows. I would go home to Dad and the young ones and be with them forever and ever. It was as if my being there with them would keep things from happening to them... Bad things. I couldn't | cry on the long bus trip home, nor in Dad's arms, not even when they laid what was left of Tom Mack in the little desolate hill behind Bill Mangum's farm. There was a poem I had read that ran through the day. "This 'was the hardest thing of all to bear, that no bird ceased its singing when you died. That men and women walked their usual ways and talked and sang as though you were not still.. Please don't HE days ran through my fingers, and the nights were traps for new anguish, but the other lives went on around me, hurrying a THROUGH THIS DOOR little, as if to catch up on the one day's grief. Aunt Mercedes went to visit her old friends and neighbors. I had the house all to myself again. I washed and cooked and mended and weeded the garden. "It's good to have you home," Dad said, "we'll miss you when you go back." "T'm never going away again," I said dully. ""There's nothing to go away for now." "Now, Mary Ruth." But he looked at my face and turned away without saying any more. Mrs. Marriott came over with a hot peach pie. "You're looking peaked, Mary Ruth. Are you eating enough?" "Enough," I said. She sat down in the kitchen chair by the door. I noticed her hair had a lot of gray in it around the temples. It was very becoming. I peeled potatoes, and because she said nothing, I was forced at last to conversation. ""Dad tells me your business is doing very well." "It is. I need another person to help me." "Will I do?" "Thelma Williams writes me that she is desperate for help. She wanted me to ask you to come back." "No," I said. She came over to help me shell the peas. "Did you hear old Sister Jensen is down with rheumatism?" "So I heard... I know, it means no nurse close here." Her quick fingers moved in and | out of the crisp pods. "Mrs. Callister needs that operation. There's no nurse to take care of her after." 843 "I know, I know,' I cried, close to tears. "But I couldn't help Mrs. Callister. I can't relieve the shortage not for years and years, even. If I went back, which I won't." She said, "It was bitter hard, then, at Thelma's?" I put the potatoes on the stove.. And senseless. When Tom was here... When there was someone with me." She rose to go. "Very well, Mary Ruth, if you want to stay here and never go through the door, that's up to you." I turned to the window. "But the door is hard to push open, Mrs. Marriott, and how do I know what's on the other side... More grief, perhaps?" "More grief," she said softly, "Dut you'll never know how much joy. If you refuse to push open the door and go farther, you'll stay here always, in one spot, in the place of your sorrow. I've seen people do that." I remembered the day Mrs. Marriott came to our street. I remembered the battered ugly houses, and us, our idleness, our terrible lethargy, our unbelief. I remembered how we had hated Mrs. Marriott at first because she wouldn't come down to us, but had forced us to climb to her. Now she moved about the room of my life and urged me toward the outside, when all I wanted was to hide my head and my heart in the gentle sameness of day after day. Istarted rolling the dough for biscuits. "I'm not going back, and I'd like to work with you if you will have me." (To be concluded) ee 99 Christmas Gif Wrapping Js Fun Florence S. Jacobsen HERE are few things so much fun as wrapping Christmas gifts for our loved ones. Using the simple things at hand makes it even more fun, especially when the product is a cleverly wrapped gift which bespeaks the giver as well as the receiver. | If you have an entire family to wrap gifts for, try wrapping them in identical paper and ribbon, but add some small object on the outside: a small toy horn, candy cane, or gingerbread man for a little boy; a rattle for a baby; lapel flowers or a thimble for a young girl. The ideas are endless. Then get a cardboard carton large enough to hold all the family's gifts. Paper the carton with the same wrapping paper as the gifts, or paint it, using the predominating color of the wrappings. Use the new flat paper paints that are so beautiful. Then paste on clever cutouts, such as snowflakes, bells, or even cutouts from the gift wrapping itself. The name of the family, or each member's name, could be painted on the outside, along with colorful Christmas designs. 'The decorative possibilities are unlimited. Finish the box with a large matching or harmonizing bow, and you have a package which is exciting to open and will be an unforgettable memory in the years to come. This same idea for decorating boxes can be carried out for single presents. Boxes can be papered with wallpaper scraps or shelf paper, (some of the patterns are perfect), Page 844 or painted in plain flat colors. For instance, if your paint is turquoise blue, paste brown and gold. Cutouts on the outside and tie with the same combination of ribbons. The color combinations are unnumbered and are exciting to work out. Don't be afraid to be different. Old, otherwise unusable boxes. Can be made more beautiful than anything you could buy. This way no other wrapping paper is necessary. 'Tie the finished box with a ribbon bow, and you will have something to be proud of. Tinkling bells, tied on ribbon ends, make a gift sound as well as look attractive. 'Tie a cluster of small, shining Christmas tree balls to a fluffy ribbon bow to add a glamorous touch. The wonderful evergreens found in gardens can be used many ways. Tie a sprig of Pfitzer on top of a gift. Add a pine cone, and it is even nicer. If you have some gold paint handy, brush a little over the cone and greens, and the gift will be still more love- | ly. Mistletoe, Oregon grape, holly, long-needle pine, or a sprig off the Christmas tree itself, tied on the outside of any package, will add to its Christmas beauty. Remember to co-ordinate the outside decoration of the gift with the paper and ribbon colors used. A wonderful inexpensive cord for tieing Christmas presents is ordinary cotton rug yarn. It comes in every color, which adds to its possibilities. Try wrapping it around the gift each way several times, 'making it look like stripes. Use it CHRISTMAS GIFT WRAPPING IS FUN 845 Courtesy, Tie-Tie Products in place of ribbon, with big, fluffy bows. Two or more colors used together are very effective. Buy a small package of varicolored sequins. Wrap gifts in plain paper, using plain ribbon, then glue on different colored sequins, and you'll hardly be able to wait for Christmas. Cutouts of felt are especially nice to add to gift packages. Either glue them on the box or on the wrapping paper or tie them to the ends of the cords. Some ideas for felt cutouts are: sprigs of holly, Santas, candy canes, bells, stars, reindeer, Poinsettias, or gingerbread men. Here is something that is different to do. All you need is an ordinary white paper bag. Open the bag. Fold the sides in at the top and hold the top together. Now scallop the top of the bag. Cut strips of colored paper three-fourths of an inch wide and paste strips on the bag, spacing them evenly, and not forgetting the sides. Fold the sides of the bag in at the top when the glue is dry and punch two tiny holes in the top, punching through the folded sides. Lace a ribbon through the holes and tie a bow on each side. You will be amazed. White bag, red stripes, and green bows look so much like Christmas, you'll hear the jingling bells. Have fun, and Merry Christmas! She G Fi Artisan Iris W. Schow The wind, for all his bluster, Merely clutters up the place; But snow gives earth the woman's touch: Curtains, fresh paint, and lace! Another Mary Mary R. Ross if was a day for weeping. The | timid young wife, her heart fluttering like a frightened bird's, cast a tear-dimmed glance over the room. Her home was ready to leave, as clean and pretty as her two small hands could make it, the floor sand-scoured to breadboard whiteness, the three boxes, which served as table and chairs, still fragrant with their soap and water scrubbing, and the baking 'powder tins which brightened her improvised cupboard, gleamed with silver-like luster. Mary agreed with George. It did seem rather silly to clean, when the bonfire, to set fire to the house, "the minute Johnston's Army enters the Valley," was already laid in the middle of her clean floor. "But," Mary tried to explain to her husband, "if our dear little house must become a burnt offering, I'm determined it will be a pleasing sacrifice, as beautiful in the sight of God, as it is, and always has been to me." _ As she spoke the tears could not be blinked back. They rolled down her pale cheeks like rain on a windowpane. "Down the road a piece" she had sighted the wagon, loaded with women and children, on its way to pick her up and. Take her South with them. For one brief moment, Mary sought replenished courage in George's firm, comforting embrace, mentally recording, for ever and ever, if perchance this were his last Page 846 kiss, the tenderness and warmth of his farewell. She had consented to the move South, but every fiber of her being rebelled at the break with all their marriage had created and made sacred, save only her unborn babe. Right now, she felt that even it might be ruthlessly wrenched from her tender flesh. She turned from George, that he might not suspect that labor had already begun. Each day, for weeks past, she had set her house in order, lest the baby come before morning. Now, when she most needed strength to travel, her hour was at hand. Broken dreams, disappointment, disillusionment, rough, rocky roads, and wracking pain, all blurred into a seething, scorching inferno, as the trip continued. Her lip was blue from biting, her palms were scarred by the digging of her nails, and her body became so tense it felt like it might momentarily fly into bits, but there was still no stopping. Minutes seemed hours, and hours felt like frantic days, but the wagons moved steadily south, until they came to the Point of the Mountain, where the one in which Mary rode had 'to tarry. " There, the sisters saw that Mary could travel no further. A shallow hole in the mountain, too small to be called a cave but extended by upraised umbrellas, became her improvised bed. Lacking~ necessities, trained help, or any medicines to partially lessen her agony, save the confused, tangled memory that re- ANOTHER MARY peated and re-repeated, of another Mary who successfully gave birth under circumstances equally difficult, she prayed endlessly. Both the sisters and the skies wept as Mary, in primitive travail, brought forth her child. No wise men came bearing gifts, 847 no shepherds came to worship and adore, no star shone, but yes, one tired, dim little star did peep between umbrellas to wink reassuringly at Mary. And in joy her heart silently sang an anthem of praise and thanksgiving for the birth of her son. ~~ She Gift Without the ti Caroline Eyring Miner [S "The Vision of Sir Launfal,'"' Lowell states, "The gift without the giver is bare." How well we know this who have received a gift indifferently given! I love this apron, for Mary made it herself, and it looks just like her—all pink and white, and neat as a pin. The gift and the giver in this case are one. A little sweater set made exactly to fit the wee person to whom it is given is made with love and care and takes on the love and personality of the giver. How many times I have told my children, "I love your homemade valentines much better than those you buy. They are you. The others are like everyone else's. I like the little Christmas and birthday gifts you make, because they show care and thought." In years gone by, we were forced to make our little gifts because money was scarcer, and because commercial gifts were not available. It was a blessing rather than otherwise. We had to plan for that box of candy we made and decorated for Father. The dish towels we made for Mother took weeks to embroider. We were rightly proud of those gifts when we presented them in grand style, for with them went our love and thoughts and a very part of us. Once again we are making gifts—ceramics, textile-painted articles, artificial flowers of various kinds, knitted and crocheted articles. It is a trend to be greatly encouraged, for gifts are valued, which reveal part of us—our loving care, our thoughtfulness. > F FF & December Has Her Loveliness; Mabel Jones Gabbott And poplar tree and lilac bush, Though gowned in lacy white, _ Now vie with summer's filmy green To make a wondrous sight. December has her loveliness As does a summer's day, And the snow brings gifts to recompense For all it takes away. December has her loveliness. As does a summer's day, For earth reflects the good and true, As seasons pass away. Fine frosted diamonds crust the ice Like dew in April grass; Earth dons the cool, clean look it wears When summer showers pass; Hl Christmas Star Sree Bertha Lorentzen Home Service Department, Mountain Fuel Supply Company Time: 8 Minutes Le a er |1 c. Butter saspeeenencsetnene-nonessteeenor== cdi erst ae nes al ¢. Sugar a I OI nor2 eggs, beaten % tsp. Vanilla 4. Sift together 3 times -..0 eee eee cece ceeeceeeeeeeeeeeens3 ¢. Sifted flour % tsp. Soda " tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Baking powder 5. Add alternately by thirds, using a stroke count of 50, 50, 125. 6. Chill thoroughly. 7. Cut out 7 star cookies in graduted sizes, ranging from 8 inches to 2 inches. Cut 7 2-inch circles to be used between stars. 8. Arrange all on cookie sheets and bake. G. Remove immediately to wire rack for cooling and put dowel stick through center of each, making a small hole. 10. Beat thoroughly - 2::-ceccssceesssseeceeseeeseneeseesenseesl egg Tee; 1 c¢. Powdered sugar green coloring 11. Frost stars with icing and sprinkle with multicolored sprills and silver dragees. 12. Support a slender round stick (dowel stick purchased from your butcher) firmly on a square or round base so that it will stand. Cover with red ribbon and bow. 13. Slip the largest star on stick and anchor with frosting. 14. Next place one small round cookie on stick, then the next size star, and so on, alternating points of stars to get the affect of tree branches and anchoring to stick with frosting between cookies. 15. Place small 2-inch star on edge for star on top of tree. " Yield: 1 tree Note: For a larger tree, recipe may be doubled. In this case, two of each size star should be cut. Extra dough may be used for figures of animals, gingerbread men, etc. Page 848 LESSON | DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 6—Coriantumr and Ether Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 12-15.) For Tuesday, March 4, 1952 Objective: faith. Note to Class Leaders: This lesson, as the preceding lesson, consists of two parts: first, a narration of the final period of the Jaredites; and second, other teachings of Moroni. JN the days when Coriantumr was king over all the land, the Prophet Ether began to prophecy to the people "for he could not be restrained because of the Spirit of the Lord which was in him. For he did cry from the morning, even until the going down of the sun" (Ether 12:2, 3). He taught them that this land of promise was the place on which the New Jerusalem was to be built up unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph. And this land was to be the land of their inheritance. Moroni, writing about the prophecies of Ether, records that they were great and marvelous. But the people would not listen to them. Finally, Ether "hid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things which should come upon the people" (Ether 13:13). To study the results of disobedience, and the necessity of exercising During the first year that he dwelt in the cavity of the rock, many people were slain by those who belonged to the secret combinations. They were fighting against Coriantumr for the kingdom. Coriantumr was skilled in the arts of war and in all the cunning of the. World, but he was not righteous. In the second year that Ether lived in the cavity of a rock, at the direction of the Lord, he prophesied unto Coriantumr that if he and his household would repent, the Lord would give unto him his kingdom and would spare the people, otherwise, they should be destroyed and all his household, except himself, and he should only live to see the fulfilling of the prophecies which had been spoken concerning another people receiving the land for their inheritance. He predicted that Coriantumr should receive burial at their hands, and every soul should be destroyed save it were Coriantumr. Hearing all Page 849 850 this, yet Coriantumr did not repent. Years of turmoil atl fighting followed, years which brought degeneration and sorrow to a wicked people. A curse came upon the land. Wherefore every man did cleave unto that which was his own, with his hands, and would not borrow neither would he lend; and every man kept the hilt of his sword in his right hand, in the defense of his property and his own life and of his wives and children (Ether 14:2). Coriantumr defended his kingdom against the armies of Shared; Shared's brother Gilead; Lib; and finally Lib's brother Shiz. Shiz was a fierce warrior who pursued Coriantumr, destroying many cities and slaying women and children. The people feared him, so much so the cry went forth in the land—"Who can stand before the army of Shiz?" (Ether 14:18). Part of the people fled to the army of Shiz, and a part of them fled to the army of Coriantumr. The. War was of such intensity and duration that the whole face of the land was covered with the slain. 'The war was so swift and speedy that there was none left to bury the dead, but they did march forth from the shedding of blood to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men, women, and children strewed upon the face of the land, to become a prey to the worms of the flesh (Ether 14:22). Shiz, continued to pursue Coriantumr, actuated by two motives: first, to avenge the death of his brother, who had been slain; and second, to prove false the prophecy of Ether that Coriantumr should not fall by the sword. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 During one of the subsequent battles, Shiz inflicted several deep wounds on Coriantumr. Fainting because of the loss of blood, Coriantumr was carried away as though dead. When Coriantumr had recovered of his wounds he began to remember the words of Ether. He saw that there had been slain "two millions of mighty men, and also their wives and children" (Ether 15:2). He began to repent of the evil he had done, sorrow entered his heart, "and his soul mourned and refused to be comforted." And he wrote a letter to Shiz proffering to relinquish his rights in the kingdom to Shiz for the sake of the lives of the people. Shiz replied that the only condition under which he would spare the lives of the people was that he might slay Coriantumr with his own sword. This only served to anger the followers of Coriantumr, and the battles were renewed. In his narrative of the final battles, Moroni wrote: The army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was that same hill where my father Mormon did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were sacred (Ether 15:11). Coriantumr and Shiz were four years preparing for the last great battles, gathering together all the people who were on the land of promise, men, women, and children | "save it was Ether." The women and children were armed with weap-. Ons of war and fought in the battles. After the second day of battle, Coriantumr wrote a second letter to Shiz, again proffering the kingdom if he would but spare the lives of the people. But the Spirit' LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Lord had ceased to strive with them, wherefore they went again to battle. Finally, all had fallen in battle, save only Coriantumr and Shiz, and Shiz had fainted with the loss of blood. Coriantumr leaned upon his sword, rested a little, and then beheaded Shiz. The prophecies of Ether had been literally fulfilled, and Ether had been a witness of their fulfillment. Obedient to God's command, he finished the twenty-four gold plates, which record was Moroni's source for his history in'The Book of Ether, and hid them where they were later found and preserved by the people of Limhi. "Now the last words which are written by Ether are these: Whether the Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the will of the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that I am saved in the kingdom of God. Amen" (Ether 15:34). After Moroni recorded the words of Ether concerning hope and faith (see Ether 12:4), Moroni interpolated in the narrative of the final destruction of the Jaredites an interesting and inspirational exposition of the three cardinal principles of Christianity, faith, hope, and charity. Moroni explains that faith is things which are hoped for but not seen. He warns that there will be no witness until after the trial of faith; and cites examples from Nephite history to validate his claim. He points out that Christ did not show himself to the Nephites after he had risen from the dead until after the people had faith in him. Continuing, Moroni writes that it 851 was by faith that the law of Moses was given to the Israelites. Moroni then directs his attention to the relationship which exists between faith and miracles, writing "af there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracle among them" (Ether 12g). He cites four examples: first, he refers to the incident in Nephite history in which the faith of Alma and Amulek caused the prison in which they were incarcerated to tumble to the ground. Second, that it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the change in the hearts of the Lamanites, a change which made possible their baptism with fire and with the Holy Ghost. Third, that it was the faith of Ammon and his brethren which — wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites. "Yea, and even all they who wrought miracles wrought them by faith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were after" (Ether 12:16). Moroni then points out, fourth, an incident which occurred after Christ: "And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a promise that they should not taste of death; and they obtained not the promise until after their faith" (Ether Wan] ive Moroni writes of seeing and talking to Christ. Worried over the possible reception of 'The Book of - Mormon by the gentiles in the last days, fearing that they would mock at his words because of the ineffective manner in which he felt he had written, he presented his problem to the Savior. Jesus replied: 852 Fools mock, but they shall moum; and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness; And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness. I give unto men weakness that they may be humble (Ether 12:26, 27). Having heard these words, Moroni was comforted. Speaking to the Savior, he continued: And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared in the mansions of thy Father. Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, thou wilt prove them, and take away their talent (Ether 12:35). And Moroni prayed unto the Lord that he would give charity unto the gentiles. Regarding the second - virtue, hope, Moroni writes little, stressing chiefly that "man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place which thou [God] hast prepared" (Ether 12:32). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 Moroni concludes this long interpolation in his history of the Jaredites by bidding farewell. To the gentiles, by testifying that he has seen the Christ, and by giving the gentiles grave admonitions: And now I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever. Amen (Ether 12:41). This twelfth chapter of the Book of Ether thus becomes a new witness that Jesus is the Christ, and presents a strong appeal for the gentiles of the last days to give credence to this noble message. Questions for Discussion 1. Do you have sympathy for Coriantumr in his repentance? 2. How were prophecies concerning Coriantumr literally fulfilled in this lesson? 3. What is Moroni's view of the three cardinal principles of the gospel? 4. What were the teachings of Ether concerning the history of the world? (See Ether 13.) Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 6—"Now It Is Better That a Man Should Be Judged of God Than of Man, for the Judgments of God Are Always Just, but the Judgments of Man Are not Always Just" (Mosiah 29:12). | Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 4, 1952 Objective: To show that we should refrain from judging each other. T seems to be a very common trait in human beings, freely to pass judgment upon our fellow men. King Mosiah, in speaking to his people gave us the kernel of thought on this subject and the indisputable reason why we, as mortals, are not competent to judge. Whereas the LESSON DEPARTMENT judgments of God are always just, he tells us, the judgments of man are not always so, and this is sufficient reason why we should not judge each other. This reason disqualifies us as rightful judges. Being human and subject to the weaknesses and prejudices of human nature, our opinions are likely to be biased, we are prone to make mistakes. And being able to view conditions and problems only with limited vision, seeing only what appears on the surface, we have no right to assume the role of judge of our fellow men. Our judgment may be faulty because our wisdom and knowledge are faulty. But God can pass unerring judgment because he can read the human heart, he knows the motives of individuals, and can see all sides of a situation. Someone has said, "We judge others by their actions, ourselves by our intentions." There is an old adage which reads: "People in glass houses should not throw stones." In a sense, we all live in glass houses, for no one of us is free from sin in some degree. Because this is true, we 853 have not the right to throw disparaging stones at others. Dr. Alsaker said, "We should be lenient in our judgment because often the mistakes of others would have been ours had we had the opportunity to make them." And this verse has much truth to ponder: How leniently our own faults we view, And conscience's voice adeptly smother; Yet, oh, how harshly we review The selfsame failings in another. —ANON. It is true that in our present social structure, those who have broken the law must be dealt with in the courts, and men must be judged of men, because that is the only way open to us. Moreover the Lord himself has designated certain offices in his Church which carry the power of judgeship; but in our daily contacts with each other, let us withhold judgment of our fellow men. When our life's deeds are weighed, one will surely be there who has known our innermost thoughts and desires, one will pass judgment who is a perfect Judge. Work ITleeting—Sewing THE Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Mending Men's Suits Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 11, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) homemaker can confidently attempt many of the simpler repairs and alterations in men's suits and coats. In addition, much suit saving can be done by guarding against wear. And the day of mend- 854. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 ing can be further postponed by proper everyday care. As in all mending, the material, such as patches, thread, lining, and buttons should match as nearly as possible those in the suits being repaired. Buy three-cord mercerized thread, size o for extra strength, in a shade darker than the suit. Thread works up lighter than it appears on the spool. A piece of beeswax is helpful in waxing thread for extra strength when sewing on buttons or repairing buttonholes. Use regular buttonhole twist for buttonholes. If the fabric has a hard, tight finish, use strong linen thread for sewing on buttons., Wear and perspiration can soon cause holes under the arms in a suit lining and can stain and mat the outer material. To guard against this, protective shields may be tacked in. Make underarm shields of material that is similar to the suiting, or make them of rayon lining in a matching color.. Cut two shieldshaped pieces, one for each armhole. Bind all around the edges with rayon. Undo the lining just far enough to tack the shield in place under the armhole. Slip stitch the shield to the coat lining around the outer edge and the lining back in around the arm hole. To protect trouser legs from the tub of shoes, wear guards may be put on the cuffs. To make them use heavy tape about five-eighths of an inch wide. To put them on, turn down the cuff, baste the tape on just inside the leg next to the fold that will be the bottom edge of the trouser, and stitch by machine on both edges of the tape. Turn the cuff back and tack it in place. To repair a frayed sleeve edge, first rip the lining from the coat at the cuff, take out the cotton stay inside, turn down sleeve hem and brush out all lint and soil. Next cut through the crease exactly on the line of wear. Trim off worn spots of sleeve and facing, keeping an even line. Taking a very tiny seam, sew facing back in place. Press this seam open. With the seam open, stitch it by machine very close to the seam line. Turn the facing inside the sleeve and baste in place so the seam line and machine stitching are just inside the sleeve.- Refinish bottom of sleeve as before and replace buttons. Patches in men's suits at elbows and elsewhere. Should be done as inconspicuously as possible by careful matching as outlined in lesson 2—"Patching." When holes appear in inside pockets, they may be mended with a good, heavy grade of cotton twill. Usually a half pocket repair is sufficient. Cut off the worn part of the pocket and use it as a pattern to cut a new pocket bottom, allowing for seams. Turn the pocket inside out and sew the new part to the old with the seam outside. Press the seam up and finish as a flat fell. This keeps the pocket smooth. Take a 1/8 inch seam around side and bottom. Turn the pocket back into trousers and finish as a French seam. If a button has pulled out and taken a bit of cloth with it, darn the hole or patch it to add strength. To prevent strain that may cause the button to pull out again, sew a LESSON DEPARTMENT small button underneath, opposite the suit button. Pin stripes that have worn off at knees, elbows, or seat of suits, can be restored by machine. Reinforce these places with rayon lining pieces cut the proper size. Baste reinforcements underneath and then stitch stripes on the machine 855 in thread that matches the original stripe. Experiment with machine tension and size of stitch until you get a stitch that reproduces the stripe. Instructions for turning collars and cuffs on men's shirts can be found on page 217 of the text. Of iterature— The Literature of England Lesson 22—Two Romantic Essayists: Lamb and Hazlitt Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 18, 1952 HUS far in our attempts at defining romanticism and following its course through the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, we have discussed romantic writers whose significant works were written in poetic form. One is not justified, however, in assuming that before a writer can be a romantic he must first be a poet. Although poetry dominates in the works of this period, other literary forms were also used. Early in the romantic movement, Sir Horace Walpole wrote his Castle of Otranto, a ghoulish novel of terror, ghosts, clanking chains, and eerie screams at midnight in an ancient castle. This novel set the pattern for the many Gothic romances which have been produced steadily and read eagerly ever since. Jane Austen's novels of English society, while non-romantic, were brilliantly written and widely read. The radical social and political doctrines of William Godwin's Caleb Williams profoundly influenced all the liberal romantics. Most popular of all, because so nearly the personification of popular romantic ideas, were the dashing historical novels of Sir Walter Scott (see text, pp. 23729). Several of the early romantics— Gray, Cowper, Lamb, and Keats— wrote distinguished series of letters. Byron, Shelley, Lamb, and _ later, Browning, wrote dramas which, though generally unsuccessful on the stage, contain many powerful scenes. Some of the greatest romantic poets—Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Shelley—also wrote literary criticism and essays which alone would have insured the fame of their authors. Since the two final lessons for this year will be concerned withWordsworth, who is predominantly a poet, it would seem justifiable for vatiety's sake first to discuss two of Wordsworth's contemporaries who were, along with Thomas De Quincey, the outstanding essayists of the romantic movement during the first part of the century. Charles Lamb, whose noble life and personal, ef- 856 CHARLES LAMB AT THIRTY fusive prose, have made him one of the most loved men in English letters, will be discussed first. He will be followed by William Hazlitt, whose prose possesses a vigor and a sharpness in which he was unexcelled by his contemporaries. Charles Lamb (1775-1834) Both Blake and Lamb lived and died in London. While the texture of city life stifled Blake and aroused his resentment, it nourished in Lamb so strong a love for the city that he felt that happiness and contentment were not possible for him elsewhere. Unlike his fellow romantics, he was completely indifferent to the beauties of nature: how he did shock Wordsworth by telling him that he wouldn't care if he never saw another mountain! Habitually he took frequent walks through the roar and tinkle of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 crowded streets, so enjoying what he saw that what for others was ugly and tragic, became for him the stimulation for warm and pleasant memories (compare Blake's attitude toward chimney-sweeps, pp. 117-118, with Lamb's essay on chimneysweeps, page 341). So tolerant and appreciative an attitude toward the meanest product of industrialized England is characteristic of both Lamb and his essays—or is there any way or need of separating the man from his words? Yet he achieved his pervading sweetness of spirit in spite of a life which gave him every justification to be bitter and cynical. In 1775, Charles Lamb was born to a struggling clerk and his wife, the last of their seven children. How very real the struggle was can be seen in the survival to adulthood of only Charles, his beloved sister Mary, and his brother John. At age fourteen Charles left school to begin thirty-five years of clerkship for large importing houses. He had no money for higher education; then, too, he stammered violently. In his twentieth year hereditary insanity overcame him, and he was sent to an insane asylum. But when he wrote of this disaster to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, his lifelong friend, he described the incident as if he had been away braiding a Maypole: The six weeks that finished last year and began this, your very humble servant spent very agreeably in a madhouse, at Hoxton. I am got somewhat rational now, and don't bite anyone. But mad Iwas Throughout his life the threat of a recurrence of insanity haunted LESSON DEPARTMENT him, but though it never came, Lamb felt that marriage and a normal family life could never be his. A year later, in 1796, the same disease attacked his sister Mary, a woman of great charm and intelligence. Since his wealthy brother John felt he could no longer be concerned with the necessary but unpleasant facts of his blood relationships, it was Charles who spared her the horrors of an almost animal confinement by accepting full responsibility for her welfare. Even though | during the years her attacks became more frequent and more violent, between times, Mary lived peacefully and happily with her brother, becoming his constant friend and companion. 'Together they wrote many successful books for children, notably Tales From Shakespeare, which for so many generations of readers has simplified our greatest author without destroying substantially the spirit and tone of his words. Charles died in 1834, and Mary survived him twelve years. Lamb retired from his clerkship with the East India Company at the age of fifty and was given a comfortable pension, but his most enduring works had been written before these final nine years of leisure. On his retirement, as always, he concealed the inevitable feelings of uselessness and loneliness beneath the pleasantest satire and good-natured self-mockery, so that even while he pretends to tell us of his sad loneliness, the tongue-in-check tone of his words remind us that above this event the essential Lamb—warmly humorous, tender, spontaneously, unaffectedly happy—still rises tri- 857 umphant above the pains of existence. (Read "The Supernannuated Man," pp. 349-352.) In reading Lamb's essays, unexcelled in our language for personal warmth and charm and puckish fun, we should see them as beautiful illustrations of Count Buffon's wise belief that "The style is the man." Though when upset or terribly bored by dull conversation, Lamb could be peevish and shrill, his many friends among the great thinkers and artists of the day forgave him such small faults. So completely was he governed from within by compassion and understanding that everyone who knew him loved him. Wordsworth wrote of Lamb, O, he was Good, if e'er a good man lived! In his complete devotion to his many friends and to his sister, he was almost selfless. Yet, when he wrote, no matter what subject, place, book or mood he promises to discuss, the flavor of Charles Lamb has been so completely saturated into all other ingredients that, regardless of what feast is on the menu, the smooth, delicious taste of Lamb alone tingles the palate of the memory. (Since Lamb himself so loved a pun, the above might somewhat legitimately plead for toleration. ) We have already mentioned the gentle humor which is found everywhere in Lamb's writing, so that he has been called "the laughing philosopher." He never takes himself nor his subject matter with high seriousness; indeed, one of his greatest dislikes was for those people in life who consider themselves sufficiently wise and good to reform their fellow men. Instead of moral- 858 izing, Lamb humorously holds himself up to the reader as a horrible example of what the universal weakness of man produces. His constant and supreme aim is nothing less than to create pleasure, both for himself and for the reader. With enjoyment as his goal, he varies his skillfully controlled style from a direct, simple tone to one filled with classical allusions and sonorous word-sounds until the language itself, as well as the idea it contains, becomes a source of pleasure. Yet, though he might not seek to preach wisdom and truth directly to his readers, he nevertheless, insinuates his more profound convictions in between the words of his prose, a method which becomes all the more powerful because of the intimate, subtle manner in which it is accomplished. Lamb deeply loved the writers of the seventeenth century; he found a great satisfaction in recalling the past, whether. In reading others' works, or by writing of the past in his own words. This longing. For the joys of days gone by is characteristic of much of his writings. In our text it is strongly present in his haunting "Dream Children," (page 338) "In Praise of Chimney Sweepers,' (page 341) and "The Superannuated Man" (page 349). Equally enjoyable, and as frequent, is his enjoyment in sketching characters: witness the occasional oddness and the humorous treatment of the subjects in the above essays, as well as in "Poor Relations," (page 345) "The Two Races of Men," (page 353) and in "The Dissertation Upon Roast Pig," and "Old China," which are not included in our text RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 WILLIAM HAZLITT AT THIRTY-FIVE but which appear in many antholoies. _ We thus do all that Lamb would have us do when we read him for the leisurely enjoyment of people, the past, and the present. 'That such a playful, tender philosophy of life could have been built on the foundation of an actual life filled with routine, tragedy, and apprehension is a miracle which doubly endears Lamb to his readers forever. William Hazlitt (1778-1830). William Hazlitt and Charles Lamb were contemporary essayists who were lifelong friends—not intimate, but always able to converse without coming to verbal fisticuffs. While Lamb's connection with Hazlitt was a friendship among scores of others, and a weaker one at that, Lamb was the one friend with whom Hazlitt never quarreled. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lamb never fought openly and seriously for a principle; all men he loved. In almost direct contrast, Hazlitt was the eternal solitary and individualist, who sacrificed all else to fight vigorously for the principles of the revolution in France. When Wordsworth and other English liberals gradually allowed values other than pure freedom and liberty to become paramount, Hazlitt condemned them in scathing tones. Hazlitt himself never broke faith with his early liberal views, nor did he complain that his solitary existence had been unhappy. And he managed to write essays and a substantial block of literary criticism which are valuable for their vigor and intellectual weight and valid judgment. Hazlitt was born at Maidstone, in 1778, to the household of a liberal unitarian minister who believed so fervently in the new apostles of revolt—Rousseau, Mary Wollstonecraft, and William Godwin—that he came to America after the revolution fully expecting to find established here a flowering Utopia. He returned somewhat disillusioned 'to an English country parish where young William was educated at home, surrounded by such momentous visitors as Coleridge, whose powerful influence upon Hazlitt is effectively described in our text, pp. 367-374. The first thirty years of his life were devoted to his desire to become an artist and a philosopher, but he finally realized his mediocrity and began writing his extremely successful essays and criticisms of prominent Elizabethan 859 writers. Many of his critical views proved to be the first statement of important romantic principles and his evaluations of many of these writers are essentially the views of the modern literary world. His two marriages ended in separation. Hazlitt spent his final years writing a life of Napoleon, whom he idolized for destroying the rule of aristocracy. This work was a failure, but he died in 1830 before he fully realized this fact. We find Hazlitt's style at its best in his essay, "On Going on a Journey" (text, pp. 361-367). He is romantic in his insistence on going alone as he travels, in his high praise for nature and solitude, in his lyrical praises for travel as a device for releasing oneself from the present corrupted world, and in the enjoyment he finds in meeting other peoples in their inns and strange towns. But in order to understand the snap and gristle which his style contains, it is necessary to read some such passage as the following:. All that part of the map that we do not see before us is a blank. The world in our conceit of it is not much bigger than a nutshell, It is not one prospect expanded into another, county joined to county, kingdom to kingdom, land to seas, making an image voluminous and vast; —the mind can form no larger idea of space than the eye can take in at a single glance. The rest is a name written in a map, a calculation of arithmetic. For instance, what is the true signification of. That immense mass of terntory and population known by the name of China to us? An inch of pasteboard on a wooden globe, of no more account than a China orange! 'Things near us are seen of the size of life; things at a distance are diminished to the size of the understand- 860 ing. We measure the universe by ourselves (page 366, lines 25-43). Many like passages could be chosen from the essay to present other phases of Hazlitt's art in greater detail, but short space forbids. Yet the more of this author you can read to your group, the more evidence they will have of his considerable powers, and of his right to be placed among the best of nineteenth century English prose writers. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the various literary forms the romantic writers used to give expression to their art. Why has poetry proved most popular? 2. How are Lamb's writings driectly related to the events of his life? How unrelated? 3. What did Lamb hope to achieve by writing his essays? Give examples and passages from his works which prove that he realized his goal. | 4. Contrast the individuality of Lamb with that of Hazlitt. | Social Science—The Progress of Man Part 2—From Darkness Into Dawn Lesson 12—New Races in America Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 21 and 22.) | For Tuesday, March 25, 1952 Objective: To show that the choice land of America was discovered through the will of the Lord. That he led chosen men from various nations to form a new nation where, provided the people lived righteously, liberty and truth could flourish. A Choice Land Is Zion CONTRARY to popular belief, the Western World is where civilization began. The Lord revealed that Adam-ondi-Ahman, a place in Daviess County, Missouri, is where Adam dwelt after he was driven out of the Garden of Eden. The Garden of Eden, then, must have been on the Western Hemisphere. It stands to reason, this being true, that the antediluvians also dwelt on this Western Hemisphere before the division of the earth. Just what was the nature of the land surface of the earth when Noah built his Ark may not be definitely known, but this we know, that in the beginning all the land surface of the earth was in one place. The dividing of the continents did not take place until after the flood, for it was in the days of Peleg when the earth was divided. When the Ark was carried on the waves of the flood it was evidently no small journey and took many days, for the "waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days." When Noah landed he was at Ararat. The Western World was swept clean as we learn from The Book of Mormon. In the Book of Ether we are informed that:.. After the waters had receded from off the face of this [American] land it became a choice land above all other LESSON DEPARTMENT lands, a chosen land of the Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should serve him who dwell upon the face thereof (Book of Mormon, Ether 192). Having been cleansed from all its iniquity, this choice land was again designated as a place for a chosen people, and the Lord led the Jaredites out from the tower of Babel across the great waters to possess it. After their destruction, for their failure to heed the firm decree of God that none but a righteous people should inherit this land, another people was brought to this hemisphere. 'The people of Lehi, and perhaps the people of Mulek, were brought here in fulfilment of the promise made to Joseph, son of | Jacob. This Western World was given to the children of Joseph and his fellows, to be their inheritance after the destruction of the Jaredites, with the same warnings and promises which, no doubt, had been given to the antediluvians as well as to the Jaredites. So we find the Nephites and the Lamanites possessing this land of promise unmolested and free from interferences by any other nation. The Lord had said that the land of Zion—America—is a choice land above all other lands upon the earth. When the Jaredites were led to this land across the great waters, the Lord said to them: Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ (Book of Mormon, Ether 2:12). 861 Kept From the Knowledge of Other Nations The descendants of Lehi received the same commandments which had been given to the Jaredites: And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an inheritance. Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell safely forever. But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the hand of the Lord... Behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of him that is just shall rest upon them. Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and smitten (Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi 1:8-11). The Lord, as here declared by Nephi, promised to keep this Western World from the knowledge of other nations until the time should come for that knowledge to be made known. It was not until after these people dwindled in iniquity, bringing the wrath of God upon them, that the Lord permitted 862 ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 the nations of the gentiles to learn of this Western Hemisphere. Columbus Seen by Nephi The coming of Columbus was seen in vision by Nephi nearly six hundred years before the Christian era. Of this vision Nephi said: And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it-came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land. And it came to pass that I beheld the Spirit of God, that it wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out of captivity, upon the many waters. And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten (Book of Mormon, I Nephi 13:12-14). ' Christopher Columbus who was inspired to cross the "many waters" to the Western World was the man seen by Nephi in his vision. For years he struggled to obtain means to make the voyage westward which he thought would take him to the shores of Asia and to India. Although he made four trips to the new world and finally to the mainland of South America, he died thinking he had reached Asia and not another hemisphere. He never lived to know the extent of his discovery and what great things were to come out of it in later years. There can be no doubt in relation to the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord guiding Columbus to cause him to work so incessantly and under such great difficulties before he could induce Isabella of Spain to assist him in the accomplishment of his mission. Although Columbus knew it not, it was a mission given him of the Lord, and he was impelled by some force, or desire, which would not let him rest. The Set Time Had Come It was not many years after the return of Columbus to Spain, with the news that he had discovered land to the west, before nearly all the nations of Europe prepared to make explorations. The result of these early discoveries was that settlements were attempted in the New World. The leading nations grasped the opportunity to increase their territory by colonies. They all sought to increase their wealth from what might come as a result of the new discovery. 'The real purpose for the discovery was not realized by the people of Europe at that early day. The Lord revealed to Lehi and also to his son Nephi, that the time would come when the land of promise—Zion—was to be revealed to the gentiles residing in the other half of the world. 'The discovery of America came to pass in fulfilment of this promise. The set time had come for the gentiles to learn of the Western Hemisphere and the opportunity was given them to possess it as an inheritance, but on the same conditions which were exacted of the nations who had occupied the land before. By the will of the Lord and the direction of his Holy Spirit, the gentiles were led to the New World. The discovery was one of the most important fac- LESSON DEPARTMENT tors in bringing to pass the purpose of the Almighty to restore his gospel in its fulness. No Kings Upon This Land It was said by prophecy through Jacob, brother of Nephi, that when the time should come for America to be discovered to the Old World, and when many of the gentiles should be led to dwell here, that the land was to be a land of liberty to the gentiles. And this shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles. And I will fortify this land against all other nations. And he that fighteth against Zion shall perish, saith God. For he that raiseth up a king against me shall perish, for I, the Lord, the king of heaven, will be their king, and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear my words (Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi 10:11-14). Settlements in America The Spaniards who came here first found great quantities of gold and silver among the natives of Mexico and Peru. Gold and silver proved to be the gods the Spaniards worshipped. By means of their superior weapons they undertook a conquest of the lands of Mexico and Peru, destroying, as some historians have said, a civilization far superior in many tespects to that of Spain. It is true that with each expedition from the Old World the Spaniards brought priests intent on converting the Lamanites to the Catholic faith. Some of these Catholic fathers were men of high ideals who desired to dispense justice in sincerity, but with real intent, at all 863 hazards, to make Catholics of the native races. The Spaniards made settlements in Peru, Mexico, and Florida, and even as far inland as Santa Fe, but these settlements were not established on a permanent foundation as were those later among the Anglo-Saxons farther north. John Cabot, in 1497, was the first to discover the mainland of North America. This he did in behalf of Great Britain. Then came the French and the Dutch to the north and the Portuguese to the south, each laying claim to the territory they discovered. In 1562 the first religious refugees sought a haven in the Western World. These were French Huguenots who thought they could find peace away from the persecutions of France. The first company of (English) emigrants, 105 in all, arrived on the coast of Virginia in 1607, and founded the settlement of Jamestown. Other ships came from England until several hundred settlers were located in the colony. Thus the first permanent English settlement in the New World was established. A few years later the Dutch arrived from Holland and settled in what is now New York. The first colonists came to American shores for adventure and seeking wealth. The fur trade was the incentive which brought the Dutch, who hoped to improve their condition over the limited prospects of the Old World. Coming of the Pilgrims The Pilgrims and other religious settlers came seeking a place of refuge in the New World. There was then no religious freedom 864 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 among the nations of Europe. In England the law compelled every person to attend the established church and all the people were taxed to support it whether or not they believed in its tenets. There were in England at this time many dissenters who could not because of their consciences conform to all the requirements of the English church. A large body of worshipers, who called themselves "Puritans," because they insisted on purifying the national church, were forced to leave their native land and find refuge elsewhere. They had been severely persecuted for their views, so they thought to find a haven of rest in Holland. But in Holland they were confronted by other difficulties. 'They were among a strange people who spoke a different language and whose customs were foreign in many ways to their own. Moreover, in this new country, a religious war threatened. The result was that these Separatists resolved to go to America. In 1620, a part of these people, now known as the Pilgrims, sailed for American shores and disembarked at a place which Captain John Smith had named on his map as Plymouth. Thus the second permanent settlement of the English people in what is now the United States was founded. In the immediate years which followed many others came to the New World and joined the Pilgrim colonies, so that in the year 1630 the city of Boston was founded. In 1634, a body of English Catholics also seeking refuge from religious oppression made their way to America. So, little by little, many of the gentiles, as seen by Nephi, crossed the "many waters" and found a place of refuge in this land. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Where was the Garden of Eden and Adam-ondi-Ahman? 2. Why is America in revelation declared to be such a choice land? 3. Why was this land kept so long from the knowledge of other nations? 4. Explain and verify this statement: "The set time had come for the gentiles to learn of the Western Hemisphere. The opportunity was given them to possess it as an inheritance, but on the same conditions which were exacted of the nations which had occupied the land before." 5. Point out from history how the prophecy has been fulfilled that no gentile king shall rule upon the land of Zion. 6. Assign a member of the class to point out the ruling motive of the following groups in coming to America: a. The Spaniards b. The Huguenots c. The English in Virginia d. The Pilgrims and Puritans e. The Catholics in Maryland 7. Point out the parts of the vision of Nephi which pertain to the discovery and settlement and prosperity of Amenca. What portion has seen fulfilment since the printing of The Book of Mormon? > <2 Winter Witchery Alice Whitson Norton Give me the wildwoods with gray skies above me, And never a leaf on a bare, naked limb, Then let the snow follow, and in its descending Bring to my spirit the peace of a hymn. IT lusec—Fundamentals of Musicianship APPRECIATION, CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Lessons for Union Meetings for 1951-52 Lesson 14—Conducting With the Six-eight (6/8) Baton Pattern; Vocal Helps for Singing Mothers. Textbook: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall Florence Jepperson Madsen Objective: To learn to conduct with the 6/8 baton pattern; to improve the quality of group singing. The Six-Eight (6/8) Baton Pattern and How to Conduct It (a) Study and practice the 6/8 baton pattern as given in the textbook, pages 11 and 12. (b) There are six beats in this pattern; the eighth note is the beat note. (c) Of these beats, number one and four are accented (number one is the strongest accent, number four is a secondary accent). The other beats are not stressed unless especially marked. (d) When the tempo of the song is too fast to use the 6/8 pattern the 2/4 is used, instead, there being three counts to each beat, thus: down-beat—one, two, three; up-beat—four, five, six. 1. However, when it becomes necessary to indicate the original beat note, as, in the chorus of "Our King," page 245, Sunday School Songs, it is best to conduct with the regular 6/8 pattern. 2. The 2/4 pattern is used for marches and for songs in 6/8 rhythm that are to be played or sung faster than moderato tempo. Such songs as the following should thus be conducted with the 2/4 baton pattern: "Have I Done Any Good in the World Today?" "It Came Upon the Midnight Clear' "In a World Where Sorrow" (e) Such songs as the following should be conducted with the regular 6/8 baton pattern: "Jesus, My Saviour True" ("Guide Me to Thee') "Nearer Dear Saviour to Thee" "Silent Night" (f) Practice the above lists of songs as previously directed using the large, medium, and small baton patterns. (g) The 6/8 rhythm is not supposed 'to be conducted with two of the % baton patterns in a measure. The reason for this is that in 6/8 rhythm there is but one strong beat in a measure; whereas, when the % pattern is used, there are necessarily two strong beats. Pulse Beating (a) Pulse beating of rhythm should tarely be done, especially, with the baton. It breaks the continuity of the rhythm and the baton pattern, and it is confusing to the performers. If occasion arises when it appears to be needed, it should be done with the hand that is not conducting. That kind of agitated motion made with the baton or the hand that beats the individual notes or note values in a measure, instead of following a regular baton pattern, is called pulse beating. It often occurs when dotted notes are followed by. Shorter one, or the reverse. Examples: Dotted notes followed by shorter notes in "God: Speed the Right" and "Par, Far Away on Judea's Plains." A short note followed by a dotted note that is longer, as occurs in "Comin' Thro the Rye," and in the alto part of the chorus in "My Father Knows," Page 865 866 (b) The hand that wields the baton is known as the "conductor"; the other hand is called the "musician." Vocal Helps for Singing Mothers (a) Establish correct vocal habits. (b) Physical tones are, first of all, mental. They should be firmly fixed in the mind before attempting to produce them. Think twice before you sing; think pitch; think quality of tone. (c) Spend a few minutes of the rehearsal in vocalizing. It is necessary to blend the voices of a group together in order to produce tones of a like quality. (d) Voices of untrained singers are often lacking in resonance and, therefore, are unmusical and unappealing. (e) Practice the hum gently in the medium part of the voice. Follow this with the singing of the vowels, oo, o, ah, retaining the same resonance and tone - quality. (f) Proceed from the vowel "'o" into "ah" without letting the "ah" spread too RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 much. Move from the "o" into "ee" and "a'' and back again, keeping the round quality of the "o" in the other vowels. This will eventually unify the tone quality. The consonants, 1, m, b, are especiallv good to use with these vowels. (g) "True beauty of tone is the first essential of artistic singing, but it is not the only essential. If song is speech vitalied by music, then speech, the words to which music is set, has some claim to consideration. In fact, the singer's diction should convey the import of the spoken word, with the added emotional eloquence of music" (The Voice, by Frank E. Miller, M. D.). Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Describe the two baton patterns with which to conduct 6/8 rhythm. 2. Explain how and when each pattern should be used. 3. Of what importance is resonance in singing? 4. Discuss the importance of diction in singing. Christmas at Welcome Inn (Continued from page 828) Tony said no more, but his weary old eyes accused her silently. He turned and stepped gingerly across the deep-napped rug toward the kitchen door. Elise was too angry to feel sorry for him. All She could think was that he was periling the success of her party. LISE felt that the emotions of the last hour had left telltale marks upon her face. She would go to the powder room and freshen up before dinner was served. She hurried out of the dining room and had her hand out to push at the partially open door of the powder room when Muriel Grimes' voice came to her through the opening. "Yes, it's to be the nursery—if they ever need one. But I'll bet it will be a long time before she'll need one. She is not thinking of anyone but herself, as it's easy to see. Do you know she won't even have him called to the phone? Everybody's talking about how Doctor Brandon has changed. Absolutely nobody can get him after six o'clock any more. I can't understand a doctor's wife's not knowing his and her obligations to people, just people, any people. That night last week when the boiler exploded at the factory they needed every doctor in town, and do you know where Dick Brandon was? He and Elise were at a movie in Condon— CHRISTMAS AT WELCOME INN forty miles away. Oh, well, it's her business. Hand me my comb, dear, will you, please?" | Elise turned away from the door. Anger that a guest would discuss her affairs so mercilessly fought with the realization that much of what Muriel had said was true. She had been thinking mostly of herself. Had she been selfish with the husband she knew was dedicated professionally to the service of others? Muriel's words might be the means of saving Dick from extreme censure. That little wife out there in the barn—or perhaps by now not there at all—had needed Dick, and she had turned her away. What had Dick said? "I guess on Christmas Eve we can all afford to be a little more generous than usual.". That was it. She, Elise, could be generous. She would give a Christmas present to the town of Vernon. From now on there would be night calls for Doctor Brandon. Muriel would have to find somebody else to talk about. She hurried to the kitchen. "Tina, hurry, please. Tell 'Tony to put the little Mexican woman into his room. Doctor Brandon will be there at once. Hurry, before he leaves with her." Tina smiled happily, then ran to the kitchen door and down the back steps to where Tony was backing a car from the garage. Sure now that the couple would remain, Elise walked slowly to the living room and spoke quietly to Dick, who was standing near the door to the dining room. 867 ° (e) oN. CHRISTMAS > Q Ce) [CANTATAS > 2G ) ' for > s Relief Society fe) Ce) ' Choruses N De mc Carols of Christmas—Lorenz -- 80 3 Christmas Messiah—Handel 80 2 Dawn of Christmas—Nolte _ ----.80 = Music of Bethlehem—Holton.80 a Prepare Him Room—Hadler 80 = Song of the Holy Night (Two Part)—Wilson -..--------- 80 i. Wondrous Story—Kountz.60 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main: Salt Lake City 1, Utah H Please send postpaid the music indicated above.: Oj On aegrowel () Charge Cl) Money Enclosed; Nami. Nano -nennsnensnsnsccencsnseecscesonscesseenenenensesansnsseneceneseres Rddreas —--.---------00--s200002002=ee Se. A> FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH, Wt 6 4 " e MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 868 SEARS ROCEUCE AND CO today's treasures tomorrow's heirlooms The patchwork quilt you make today may become a treasured heirloom tomorrow. Sears is happy to supply the batts for many of these superb examples of Mormon handicraft. 2 pound batt 75% cotton, 25% wool 2 pound batt 50% wool, 50% cotton Mountain Mist cotton 81x108-inch size Mountain Mist cotton 81x96-inch size WRITE TO SEARS in Salt Lake City. We'll ship promptly. 'ape ney tact" SEARS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 IN OUR ANYTHING | store can be "laid away' for Christmas Delivery MASON & HAMLIN CHICKERING OR WURLITZER PIANOS HAMMOND ORGANS All Kinds of Musical Instruments EASY TERMS WRITE IN TODAY GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY "Dick, dear," she said, "there's a woman in Tony's quarters who is having a baby. 'They need you out there. Tl explain your absence. Better get out there as fast as possible." x Ke Ke ARIA thought it was part of a blurred dream that a physician in a tuxedo and stiff shirt came to her side as she lay on Tony's narrow bed. Jose was there, too, as he had been all along, and the tall dark man who came to her side spoke reassuringly to Jose. "It's a premature birth, but we can handle it all right. Iam Doctor Brandon." "You are a doctor? This is your house?" Jose asked. 'Tactfully, he asked no more. "Yes, I live here. >? You. I can help CHRISTMAS AT WELCOME INN Once in the hours that followed, Maria saw, or thought she saw, a beautiful lady in a golden dress standing in the room. She spoke quietly to the doctor, then stood by Maria's side and stroked her hair gently. Maria was not sure of all this, for reality and dreams were somehow all mixed up in her mind. Still later, when the baby was safely there and lying clean and warm on her breast, Maria looked up in happy surprise at Jose, who leaned over her in proud acceptance of his new state of fatherhood. She had heard music, beautiful music. "Did you hear it?" she asked of Jose. "Yes, I hear it. It is the carolers. Listen. 'They are singing to 9 us. Somewhere nearby lovely voices were singing: Away in a manger, no crib for a bed, The little Lord Jesus laid down his sweet head. Maria looked down upon the dark little head nestled against her breast. Then she looked around her at the walls of Tony's room, on which hung his tools and the harness that he used in his work around the place. The carolers continued: I love thee, Lord Jesus, look down from on high And stay by my cradle till morning is nigh! Jose smiled at Maria and the baby as he said, "The music is like for the Christ Child. I must tell you—the lovely lady said she would like us to live here. Tony needs help he is so old, and they will let us work the year around here. She 869 il sel There's Opportunity at the "U" For students who want to study in the home environment and to live and build their future hopes and dreams in Utah, there is no school that offers so many advantages, facilities and benefits as the University of Utah. Your education will cost you much less at your own State University which now ranks with the finest colleges in America. Outstanding instructors offer you unexcelled training in Education, Engineering, Medicine, Law, Business, Mining, Fine Arts, Pharmacy, Nursing, Social Work and other fields. Look over the opportunities the University offers YOU! Registration for Winter Quarter will be December 28. Write, Office of the President, for full information. UNIVERSITY of UTAH Salt Lake City 1, Utah 870 Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent fer reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET 6d) 4-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah _gregation, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1951 wants me to drive the doctor on his night calls. Is that not better than having to follow the crops?" "Tt is good, Jose. It is good!" Marion George Romney (Continued from page 804) All this and much more is Marion G. Romney whom the Church sustained at the last general conference as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. As his name was presented as the new apostle, an almost audible wave of approval went over the vast conand, when he spoke, there was scarcely a person who heard, whose tears did not bespeak how deeply he had been moved by this man whom the Lord has now honored with a high place in the affairs of his kingdom. EXTRA THE NEWS GAZETTE EXIRA C See the Complete ANKER LINE for Every Purse end Purpose ANKER ZIG-ZAG UWliat/Yna, - PERFORMS MIRACLES IN HOME SEWING. At rest, the PERFECT sewing machine. Does superb straight sewing—plus dozens of other unusual and "'professional'' stitches. Your sewing will be the envy of all. For values galore and a free demonstration, visit SEWING WILLIAMS 50 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 5-8651 Special Discounts For Church Organizations BIGGEST SEWING MACHINE NEWS IN — ~~ JUST FLICK MACHINE CO. TV COMBINATION THE MAGIC DIAL TO Monogram Embroider Buttonholes Sew on Buttons Blind Stitch Hemstitch GUARANTEED FOR A LIFETIME CON]TINENTAL C WELL ROUNDED TRAINING @ MILITARY @ ACADEMIC @ SPIRITUAL @ PHYSICAL @ SOCIAL Plan now to attend winter quarter Current students — register with deans before end of autumn quarter. New students — register January 2, 1952. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah 871 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built > All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Take a Trip to Old Ruins MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA Conducted by DEWEY FARNSWORTH author of THE AMERICAS BEFORE COLUMBUS Leaving Salt Lake City early in January, 1952 TO BOOK OF MORMON LANDS An all-expense-paid 23-day trip by car and plane to the fantastic ruins of Mexico and Central America, where magnificent civilizations flourished and vanished centuries before Columbus. Travel through Mexico, Guatemala, San Salvador, Honduras, and Yucatan. See Mexico City with its bullfights, floating gardens, museum, Cathedral, etc., Pyramid of the Sun and Moon. Toluca with its native markets, Xochicalco and Taxco, Cholula, Monte Alban, Mitla, Chichen-Itza, Uxmal, and Kabah. See Carlsbad Caverns and other points en route. For further information write or phone MRS. FLORENCE PIERCE 576 Columbus Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone 4-7201 From Near and Sar Mary R. Ross, author of "Another Mary," page 846, writes as follows: ""The story is a true experience, as my mother gave birth to her first child. She was only seventeen years old." I am not a Latter-day Saint, but have belonged to the Cascade Relief Society for several years. 'The past year I have lived too far away to attend meetings, so The Relief Society Magazine is the only way I have been able to continue with the general trend. I miss the meetings very much, and if I didn't have the Magazine every month I would feel as though I had lost a great and wonderful friend. It has so definitely become a part of my life. —Mrs. Betty Hillberg, Canfield, Idaho I am a social science teacher, so the Magazine is a prerequisite to my work, but even if I weren't a teacher, I feel I can't afford not to take it. My oldest girl now is reading the Magazine in the home, and I know she is in good company when she reads the Church publications. I love The Relief Society Magazine. So much information, comfort, and inspiration I have gotten from it. I plan to have it in my home as long as I live. —Lavinia Gardner Logandale, Nevada There is always some thought or suggestion each month in the Relief Society Magazine that is so helpful to a young mother—to any mother, I suppose. Rearing a family is such a great responsibility and several times when I've had questions in my mind as to how to handle a situation, I have read something from the Magazine that puts me on the right track to the solution of my problem. It is a wonderful Magazine. —Mrs. Rex D. Cook Fish Haven, Idaho Page 872 My mother gave me my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine and keeps it renewed for me. Receiving my copy each month has meant even more to me since my husband was called back into the army. —RMarilin M. Evans Fort Sill, Oklahoma I have just read the poem "Deseret Balm'' (September frontispiece) by Beatrice K. Ekman—it is so good! I could not get along without the Magazine. The lessons are very instructive and interesting. —Maud Miller Cook Safford, Arizona I would like to express my satisfaction for The Relief Society Magazine. Upon its arrival I read it. From cover to cover as soon as I have an opportunity. There are surely some wonderful articles in it. 'I enjoy these as much as the fiction and poetry. —Winnifred Joan Burnham Mesa, Arizona The Relief Society Magazine has given me information on subjects I had failed to find otherwise. Also, my boys look forward to hearing the stories read to them. We do not want to ever miss an issue of the Magazine, with its faith-promoting articles. 1 have found articles in it that were worth more than the price of a year's subscription. We who live in isolated areas need our faith renewed often.. —RMrs. Charlie M. Hamner Haley's Mill, Kentucky I appreciate the Magazine more than I can say—all of it. I am especially interested in the poetry. Some of it is so beautiful in imagery and concept that I hold my breath for very ecstasy. Some of the poems portray the beauty of the deep truths of our religion, and that is a ballast to us in these times. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Start Your Church Library With Chese Bonks: TRIPLE COMBINATION BOOK OF MORMON DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS PEARL OF GREAT PRICE UR of cio i 6: en cy ed Fa an ine$7.50 in 12 point type—large type family edition $12.00 Genuine leather, gold edges, Bible paper L. D. S. MISSIONARY BIBLE MBl — simulated leather 0.0.2.0.$ 7.50 MB3 — genuine Morocco 0.0.22 o eee$11.00 MB4 — genuine leather lined$13.00 With L. D. S. Missionary Ready Reference, Dictionary and Concordance NEW ANALYTICAL BIBLE A BIBLE AND REFERENCE BOOK IN ONE No. 60 519.95 No. 100 $22.95 See our dealers throughout the West Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers BEN INSUR Mea w; 4 Al Ni MUSA iC 5, 7s your, AN CE BEN we Qe er o> om | ao] > REST EASY, ——— 7> / fe | Ai \ N) (oY Q ee, \. IN Xx Salt Lake City, Utah = E N'Y OVER QUARTER BILLION OF LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE SANTA 2¢ Paid U. S. POSTAGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690
