LOOKING AHEAD.
	That this people, as well as all the people of
the world are living in a day of great events and
changes is a positive fact almost universally con-
ceded.  Men of advanced thought in their writings
and in public speaking admit knowingly and in-
advertently this truth.  Some speak of it as the
noon-day of science, others as the natural
sequence of knowledge arrived at by men's learn-
ing and wisdom of the world's attainments, and a
few there be who look for some great climax of
events, supernatural in their nature and miracu-
lously bringing in the reign of peace.
	The Latter-day Saints however know what is
the tendency of all that is transpiring around them
and that it is the fulfillment of prophecy, and the
natural accomplishment of the designs of the Al-
mighty in the purpose and being of His children
here upon the earth. And while many may fear
and tremble because of what is taking place, and
while those who fear not God, or obey His laws,
are going on blindly in their unbelief and indiffer-
ence, the true Saint should be awake to the situa-
tion and with might mind and strength seek to do
his part humbly and fearlessly in the great drama
of the world's history; remembering meantime
that this people came in to take up the most im-
portant part in the closing scenes.
	This is the day of which we read that Kings
and Prophets looked forward to as the climax,
the triumph of all that was great and glorious.
	Woman as well as man has much to do in the
great events that are now taking place, her help
is needed, she must look to the future and plant
the seeds of faith,of hope and love in the hearts
of those around her, the rising generation, the
children of the saints are under her special care
and training and here lies her greatest opportuni-
ties for work in the great present and the illimi-
table future. The cultivation of the heart of all
mankind in its gentlest, truest sense, lies within
the province of womanhood.
	To accomplish woman's mission in refining,
purifying, elevating, and polishing it is essential
that the gates be thrown open to her by those who
hold the keys of power; and in this connection it
may safely be said the opportunity is coming.


Woman’s sphere is widening, her star is in the
ascendant, resplendent with light,that is shedding
its effulgence abroad and penetrating the darkest
corners with its glorious rays.  Sublime courage
and divine faith are the inspiration she needs to
continue onward and upward, and never grow
weary in helping, blessing and laboring for Zion
wih the firm assurance of victory.


