EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Relief Society Conferences
now on hand will be given space in the next
issue, or as soon afterwards as practicable.
	The Territorial Fair will be opened at the Fair
Building and grounds on the 6, 7, and 8, of Oct.
and with the many other public meetings and at-
tractions during the early days of October will
make things lively in Salt Lake City.
	A Peoples’ Convention for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City on
Thursday Oct. 2, 1890 at 2. p.m. for the purpose
of electing fifteen delegates to the People’s Ter-
ritorial Convention.  The County Convention
will consist of 130 delegates, from the several
wards in this County, with credentials properly
authenticated by the Chairman and secretary of
the Primary meeting which appointed them.
	A General Conference of the Relief Society
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
Tuesday October 7, at which it is expected there
will be representatives from each Stake of Zion:
the President of the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, who has been absent on a visit to
Canada is expected home in time to preside at
the meetings and give instruction to the officers
who preside in the several Stakes.  The meetings
will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. as usual.
	There will be a Convention of the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Ter. held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City on Friday
October 3, commencing at 2 p. m. at which it
expected there will be delegates from the several
county organizations, and an interesting pro-
gramme rendered, also that there will be an elec-
tion of officers for the ensuing year.  Addresses
will be given by prominent speakers both men and
women.  There will also be an Executive session
for business in the morning of the same day at 10,
o’clock.
	There will be a Territorial Convention of the
People’s Party held in this city on Tuesday the
7th day of October 1890, at the Social Hall at 12,
o’clock noon, for the purpose of nominating a
candidate for Delegate to the Fifty-second Con-
gress and to elect a Territorial Central Com-
mittee.  The basis of representation is fixed as
follows: One delegate for each 250 votes cast by
the, People’s Party at the last August election and
one delegate for each county irrespective of the
number of votes cast.  The number of delegates,
have been duly apportioned to the several
Counties.  Salt Lake County 15 and Utah 8.
Weber 7, Sanpete 5, Cache 4, Box Elder 3; other
counties two and one. 
	The Editor had the pleasure of attending by in-
vitation the quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations
of Sanpete Stake held at Mayfield on Friday and
Saturday, September 19 and 20, and is pleased to
state that there was a very good attendance an
excellent feeling manifest and a good spirit per-
vaded the meetings.  The young. Bishop recently
appointed at that place attended all the meetings,
and took the greatest interest in the report of the
sisters labors.  Everything in that beautiful little
settlement indicated space and prosperity,and the
abundant harvest was noticable in the numerous
large stacks of hay and grain not only in Mayfield
but throughout the County.


