	SOME INTERESTING REMINISCENCES.

It not generally known that Brigham Young,
the erstwhile leader and defender of the Mormon
faith, married his first wife in a small village in
Central New York know as Port Byron, where
he lived for several years. He was married in
1824,and the woman’s name was Works. Brigham
was engaged in the manufacture of wooden pails
there, and worked in a factory which afterward
was changed and became quite extensively known
throughout the state as Hayden’s woolen mills.
Though that was many years ago the factory is
still in possession of the Hayden family, one of
the best known in the vicinity.
	The part in which Brigham operated still stands
though expensive additions have been joined on
by the Haydens, and the manufacture of “no
shoddy” goods is still continued at intervals, by
one of them.
	The location was visited by a representative of
the Times a short time ago, and the old factory
and its surroundings presented many interesting
features. There are a few houses surrounding it,
lining the road above and below, promoted years
ago by the very considerable business which was
carried on at the factory, some of which were
occupied by the owners of the factory and others
by those engaged in manipulating the shuttle.
The most of them showed evidence of being well
cared for and are in good state of preservation,
with spacious grounds, almost farms, In nearly all
instances.	
	It is a charming spot, and an actress from New
York city grew so enthusiastic upon, first visiting
the locality that she bought one of the places and
uses it as a summer seat. It is not to be wondered
at that Brigham, with his taste for the artistic and
beautiful, became infatuated by the rural mellow-
ness pervading the atmosphere made more en-
chanting by the soft rippling of the stream flow-
ing between the meadowed base of the sloping
woodland upon either side. The location is about
one-half of a mile from the village, on Owasco
outlet, a handsome little stream, with banks well
defined, richly covered with verdure, upon which
tall trees, with wide-spreading, drooping branches
stand, shutting out the sunlight from the water.
About the residences are neatly-trimmed lawns,
rising from the roadside, and aged maples, Cast-
ing over all the delightful shade of summer, and
comfort pictured upon either-hand.
	Such the writer found Hayden's woolen
mills to be as he stepped from the dusty stage,
which has daily been for years the convenience
of travel between the village and Auburn. One
warm afternoon in July last, the factory was silent
and no living thing was in sight except across the
stream near a house some 500 yards dis[---] 
man was seen slowly following [-] [--]amy old
white horse, plowing in a potato "patch" in the
corner of the yard near the roadway. The house
was of the farmhouse style, with a long veranda
across the front, and neatly trimmed vines were
clinging about the supports and around the win-
dows also.
	In front were shade trees and the familiar
cherry tree, into which a neat, middle-aged lady
was reaching for the fruit from a step-ladder. She
started a little with surprise, but pointed to the
potato “patch,” indicating the man of the house
was there. Leaning against the plow handles and
pushing his hat back from his well-bronzed face,
a merry twinkle, of merriment crept into his eyes
as in mock solemnity he replied:
	“Yes; I suppose this is sacred ground. Right
where you now stand Brigham Young’s house
stood until a short time ago, when it was torn
down. I knew him well as he lived about here
many years, and I have always lived here. He
used to work in that factory over there, which be-
longed to my father. It was a pail factory then,
and sixty-three years ago the 14th of last month
(June) Brigham began painting pails there. 
	"The house in which he lived stood here, but
the fingers of time made a wreck of it, and it be-

[column 3]
came tenable only for fats and mice, and I tore it
down. Since I have been cultivating the ground
I have turned up with the plow several spoons,
knives and other articles which I suppose were
once in use by him. There is a house in the
village which he built still occupied and in good
condition.
	“He married his first wife there in 1824, and her
name was Works. He was married by a justice
of the peace, whose name was Pine. Esquire
Pine. Pine died several years ago, old and very
poor.
	“He was somewhat dependent upon the village
for support, and a short time before he died we
got up a golden wedding for him; a sort of bene-
fit. When Brigham left here he owed Pine a
small amount, so I sent him an invitation to the
wedding as a reminder of the same. Well, the
old fellow sent Pine a draft for $100 and it did
the old man good.  I remember when Brigham
went West. Wonderful reports came back here
of the empire he had built up at Salt Lake.
Several large families were broken up by it, and
a large number wanted to follow him while others
did not.
	“At all events we have always taken a keen in-
terest in matters with which he has been asso-
ciated. I think his own family was divided, a
part of his wife’s folks going and others remain-
ing. Some of them are still living in this (Cayuga)
county. Brigham was quite a hustler and pos-
sessed considerable magnetism, which he used to
advantage to himself after leaving here. He
never came back. A few years ago one of his
sons stopped off at the village for an hour or 
two, but told no one what his business was,
though he made himself known. Now this is all
I know,” said the man, who was ascertained to
be Charles Hayden, as he took hold of the plow
handles, and clucking to the old Horse continued
plowing the potatoes.—Denver Times.


