WELCOME MESSENGER.

	Today brings the EXPONENT, I wonder if
it receives as cordial a greeting by every sub-
scriber as I give it? On its arrival, no differ-
ence what my employment (now don't frown
upon me you model house wives) I stop long
enough to glance at the signatures of the cor-
respondents, to see if there are any names an-
nexed thereto of my girlhood associates, or of
those of my many dear friends and co-workers
from the country that was my ever fondly re-
membered home up to the time I assumed the
sacred duties of wife and mother; it only takes
a minute you know, and 'tis such a satisfac-


tion; then the very first time baby is tired or
fretful, how I enjoy rocking her to sleep while
reading the minutes and reports of the P. A.
and R. S. conferences, or an account of some
social gathering oft times showing to me the
names of those who are endeared to me by the
truest ties of friendship, and giving sometimes
quite an insight into their present situations,
and a knowledge that those friends continue
to possess an assurance of the divinity of our
faith, and are willing to lend their assistance
for its furtherance. Sometimes in perusing
these inspiring sketches my eye comes in con-
tact with names (I would like to pen each one)
of those, who have been compelled to leave the
beautful vales of Utah for climes more peace-
ful, if not otherwise congenial, some of whom
are in different parts of Arizona, Colorado, and
way off in Mexico. Pleasing memories they
revive, aye, and sad ones too, but it all serves
to make me feel nearer those dear never to be
forgotten ones, for this with other things the
EXPONENT is always thrice welcome to me, I,
—like many others who are “floating on life's
ocean" have drifted away, away from all child-
hood’s associations.
	This weeks paper also brings "An Answer"
to my "Woman's Calling," in reading it I can-
not help thinking that Sister Mary Anderson
must have misunderstood me, or I do not
thoroughly understand the idea she wishes to
convey, judging from the tone of her article
we exactly coincide with each other’s views
and could we converse orally I'm positive we
would agree admirably with no sign of contra-
diction.	
	Last night Brother F. M. Lyman held forth
in our meeting house, his noble, cheerful
countenance as he arose in the pulpit brought
forth one general look of gratification from the
well filled house, he earnestly implored all to
arouse from the seeming lethargy that had
fallen upon the Latter-day Saints, have our
lamps filled and burning as the signs of the
times were indicative of the coming of the
Bridegroom. May we benefit ourselves by the
timely warning is the hearty desire of,
				E. A. CRANE WATSON.
	Parowan, Utah.


[Column 1]
		AUNT LU'S STORY.
	Very many little, as well as big people, have
asked me to write a story. Well, there are
very many to write, thousands to read, and a
vastly greater number, who want to hear a
story. And now while I think of it, that I
may never have the privilege of passing this
way again; if you will kindly pay attention I
will tell you one, for if I can do any good, or
make any one happy, it would not be hardly
fair to refuse; besides nobody can complain if
I do my best. I scarcely know how to begin,
but don't think I will say, "now once upon a
time," although everything happens, once upon
a time, that is certain—Now daylight has
nearly gone, and the lamplighter is going his
rounds to light the street, we'll draw the cur-
tain closely and look within. We won't mind
if the snow is falling fast, or the wind blowing
it in all directions, and whisking it into the
faces of people who rush along the sidewalks. 
—We think, it is true, of the homeless and
needy; we cant help it, but now you are all
seated looking anxiously towards me, I will
commence my story, but first, let me caution
[Column 2]
you "little midgets," not to put in any of your
odd queries or quirks, for I must go right
along without interruption when once I get
started.—Now in the long, long ago, out in a
great uncultivated country, on a rolling plain
that seemed to stretch away into the sky, all
alone, with not a human habitation in sight, a
little girl of not more than nine summers once
stood, gazing about and around, looking en-
quiringly for some object which had seemed to
disappear as if the earth had swallowed it
from sight, for it had only been a few minutes
(so it appeared to her) since she had left the
carriage by request, to fill a jug with water
from a running stream shaded by willows—
not but a few rods from the traveled road-
way. She had climbed up the steep bank by
the same route that she had made the way
down, and had not gone very far out of sight
she thought, to find a safe standing place to dip
up clear water.
	What can it mean? had her uncle purposely
left her there alone in this deserted place, she
wondered!—just then a flock of birds flew very
near circling around above her head chatter-
ing, as if saying, "who are you? what is the
matter, where did you come from?" she raised
her tearful eyes, looked up into the clear blue
sky, and wondered why God couldn't have
taken her when her dear mamma died, and
why her papa before his death should have
left them in care of this proud, stern man,
who she was sure never loved them, and who,
since her mamma died, had treated her like a
little beggar.
	She clasped her small hands convulsively to-
gether,shuddering at the thought of being thus
forsaken, while her lips moved in the sublime
prayer of "Our Father who art in heaven,"
then came to mind, the sweet verse she had
so often heard her dear mamma repeat, "Be-
hold we count them happy that endure," then
she murmured softly to herself, "Very pitiful
and of tender mercy." The barking of dogs
in the distance caused her to look around in
the direction from whence the sound came,
and for the first time noticed that beyond the
valley stream, lay a wooded country. Presently
two large hunting dogs came sniffing along,
bounding towards her followed by their master
with gun in hand and game-bag heavily laden.
He called the dogs back from the poor child
and manifested more surprise than he probably
would have done, if a wild bear had suddenly
made its appearance in his path; trembling
with grief and fright she rushed forward to-
wards the man beseeching him to save her.
"Where in the name of all the saints, did you
come from child?" She sobbed the sad story of
being left as already related.
	"Well come with me little girl," he said
kindly, "we'll get to a stopping place before
dark if you can foot it fast enough;" then call-
ing to the dogs to keep down, and away from
the child, they started on, for a time they
walked quite briskly, then more slowly pursued
their way until they arrived at the verge of a
circuitous hill, then, more rapidly descended,
at the foot of the hill lay a beautiful running
brook upon which the last rays of sunset
lingered bathing its waters in a roseate hue or
light. Crossing this brook was a bridge of logs,
over this, through a wooded lane of trees, they
passed on a few rods further to a house built of
logs, I think it deserved a more dignified name
than that of cabin, for it had four large rooms,
and two tall wide stone chimnies, besides the


[column 1]
roof was not thatched but shingled, there were
other buildings on the premises also, and the
whole establishment bore the name of “Alby
Lodge.”
	Standing in the wide open doorway watch-
ing their approach, was a kind benevolent
looking woman in a dress of brown woolen,
and wide checked gingham apron. It was a
long walk for the little child, but the patient
feet bore her bravely along until they had al-
most reached the broad stone steps leading to
the open door, then they failed her, and totter-
ing towards them, she would have fallen, had
it not been for the kind ready hand stretched
out to save her. “Poor little girl, she’s so
young and so tired, I found her a long way
beyond the hill crying as if her heart would
break,” said the hunter in reply to his mother’s
enquiring look. Tenderly Mrs. Alby took the
child in her arms, carried her to her room and
laid her down upon her own soft bed; then
prepared her warm drink and food without de-
lay, afterward removing her cloak, wraps, and
traveling bag she had carried in her hand,
carefully taking note of each article of her ap-
parel as she prepared for bathing. The poor
aby, tired limbs, and feet as well were chafed
tenderly, with the hope that by preparing them
for rest through the long night, the weary child
would be quite well in the morning.
	Yet for more than three days the child was
alarmingly ill, often murmuring of “dear
mamma,” asking where she was going, and
frequently starting as from some frightful
dream, clinging convulsively to the kind
watcher whose assiduous and unwearying care
could not have been'more, had she been her
own offspring. There was no regular Physician
or Dr. practising medicine within fifteen miles
(at that time) to be consulted, but under skill-
ful nursing, ere a week had passed she was
happily convalescent.
	“O I have had such strange dreams,” said
she one morning holding out her little thin
hands to the kind woman who had nursed
her so patiently. "I want to love you! O, I
do love you for being so kind to me a poor
lost child!" then the small hands went up over
the eyes flooded with tears, which she could
not restrain. For a few moments not a word
was spoken. Weeping, will relieve her, thought
Mrs. Alby, then she gently wiped away the
tears, smoothed back the glossy dark, brown
hair from her pure, white forehead, looked for
some moments into her still sad face, while a
more intense feeling of tenderness took possession
of her soul as the image of a beautiful girl
of her own, long since daid away in the sleep
of death came to her mind; she sighed heavily
as the mother-love for the darling gone came
rushing back with renewed force into her heart
and bending down to the little girl kissed her
tenderly.
	The evening following the first day little
Dama came from the sick room, she asked Mrs.
Alby for her cloak, where, in an inner poeket,
she had placed several articles for safety, among
them, a small edition of the Bible, handsomely
bound with gilt clasp sind her name engraved
in letters of gold on the outside cover. This
was a Christmas gift from her mother the last
before she was taken from her by death.
	On a fly leaf she had written the names,and
dates of births and deaths of both her hus-
band’s parents and of her own, also the name
and date of birth of herself, and of her child,
and of her baptism, and also, dates of all their
marriages. Dama had put down the date of
her mother’s death in her childish hand. This
little Bible was to her a treasure-trove, price-
less, and precious, as the gift of her sainted
mother. It is probable. Dama’s cruel uncle
did not know of this book nor the other
valuable gifts her mother had placed in her
hands charging her “never to part with them
while she lived, but to keep them as mementoes
[column 2]
of her departed mother.” As she sat by the
window at sunset, propped up with cushions
her little Bible open before her, a golden
gleam of light encircled her sweet, pale face,
like a halo of glory from heaven, so thought
Mrs. Alby and her son Robert. Now for a
time we must leave little Dama rapidly re-
covering making herself the center of attrac-
tion not only to Mrs. Alby, and Robert, but to
their only neighbors the good Scotchman and
his wife (Mr. and Mrs. Douglas) to the faith-
ful colored servants who had a cabin near, but
also to all the domestic animals on and around
the premises; such patient tireless feet, swift to
perform any act of love or duty, making life
in this far away home sunny with her presence.
	I may as well tell you now, before I pro-
ceed farther, what became of the wicked man
who so cruelly deserted this child of his
brother by the same father, after having by
artful means induced him to place all his pro-
perty in his hands for the benefit and best in-
terest, (as in his weakness he was persuaded to
believe) of both his wife and child, and there-
fore in accordance (with the written request of
the dying father) he was appointed legal
guardian of his niece having in trust until she
became of age, or in case of her death previous,
if after the mother’s this should occur, he was
to possess all, amounting to many thousands of
dollars. The mother,whose health was very deli-
cate, trusted and believed it was in good hands.
She had but a slight acquaintance of this man,
and in her ignorance of his true character,
never doubted his integrity. A bad man is
not long at a loss for ways and means to ac-
complish his evil purposes, naturally corrupt
and covetous at heart, he soon came to look
upon the money in his possession as his own,
and to scheme and plan to have it so in reality.
In the presence of his sister-in-law, Mrs. Hast-
ings, he wore a hypocritical mask, but at times
his true nature would flash out toward the
child when off his guard, for in his heart he
wished her out of the way; as it regarded the,
mother he could wait, for he had been assured
by many learned and scientific physicians he
had consulted in the cities of the West, that
only, under the most favorable circumstance
could life be prolonged but a very few years.
This to his inward joy and satisfaction, (al-
though he pretended otherwise)and to bis well-
feigned anxiety, they had invariably advised
great quiet, removal from scenes of excitement,
or from anything that would have a tendency
to distract or disturb peace of mind. Yet, in
the face of all this, he secretly plotted to
destroy it. No sooner had one shock passed
away then another was planned, and such was
his success in this direction that from the last
shock of a fire started in an unoccupied build-
ing next to her own, (which communicated to
the roof) and from which both herself and
child narrowly escaped with their lives, she
never recovered, but lingered on through the
winter and spring at the house of friends in
the country, whither she went from the city
for quiet, and to die. Peacefully and calmly
she prepared for the change as one about to
take a journey to a distant land, commending
her dearly beloved child to the God of the
fatherless, enjoining, her friends to keep her
daughter and be as father and mother when
she was gone. She knew them to be upright
and in every way worthy of this sacred trust,
and supposed her guardian would not interpose
or make any objection to her dying wish and
request. Her friends gave her the most solemn
assurance of watching over her child and of
fulfilling her wishes with, regard to the same as
far as it was in their power so to do. After
this she seemed at rest in her mind,she did not
repine, that she must die so young, her Savior’s
prayer was hers, “Thy will, O God, not mine
be done.” Kissing her darling a last, ‘good
bye,' she bade all an affectionate farewell, and
[column 3]
closed her beautiful eyes on earthly things
forever.
	At the last moment of the sad burial rites,
this unworthy man who had been so earnestly
charged by a dying brother, to be tender and
faithful to his loved ones, made his appearance
pretending great sorrow, and bitterly bewall-
ing the delay of letters, messages, &c., that
had been sent (long before the last one,) tell-
ing him to hasten as she was fast approaching
the dark valley of death that all must at some-
time, sooner or later pass through. The
hardened sinner, dissembled well, and suc-
ceeded so admiirably with Mrs. Hastings
friends and especially with her most intimate
and confidential ones as lead her to believe
that little Dama's advancement and future
good would be greatly enhanced, by going with
him. "Her love for the child, should not,”
she said, "selfishly hold her from opportunities
of such vast importance to her future.” The
school he proposed to place her in, had a well-
earned reputation, especial care was taken of
the young, and nothing should be left undone
to make her happy, nor to give her every ad-
vantage of a thorough education. He also
pretended great affection for the child when
not alone with her. He would visit her often
she would be near his place of business, etc.,
(though what his business was, none knew but
himself.) He would faithfully discharge and
fulfill, the sacred trust and dying request of
both parents. In one year at summer vaca-
tion he would bring Dama “to spend it with
them.” Alas, without hesitation or question,
so completely had appearances deceived them,
they gave this so recently orphaned child into
his hands as they, in ignorance, believed right.
	It was a sad day, when Dama was forced to
take her farewell leave of her little playmates
and of the kind good friends of her dear
mother gone to take her departure with a
 man from whom she instinctively shrank, and
“who she was sure she could not love,.to go
she knew not whither, or with whom to live.”
	The  summer passed on, whilo he had taken
her from one place, to another and after
various plans to dispose of her without being
detected, he took the course of leaving her in
some remote, out of the way part of the West
to be found or perish, as already described.
	Under a well arranged disguise he had
traveled and now made his way back as
speedily as possible. Took passage for England
from N. Y. where he entered into all sorts of
excesses, gambling, speculations, etc., borrowed
the livery of heaven to serve Satan his
master in,” and succeeded by his graceful ad-
dress, in gaining the affections of a worthy ac-
complished lady with the expectation of getting
a very large portion of her property,failing in
this, after squandering the money defrauded
from the widow and orphan of his brother,he
forged a note upon his father-in-law, obtained
the money and fled to Germany, from which
place he was soon brought back by the officers
of the law tried, convicted, and sentenced to
transportation to do service in a penal Colony
for life. Thus,this artful villian was unmasked,
and his deeds made to witness against him.


