			SALT LAKE STAKE
	Minutes of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
Conference held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Sept. 11th 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  On the stand were the following ladies
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Con-
ference opened by singing "Praise ye the
Lord," prayer by Mrs. Diana Reid, singing
"O happy souls who pray."  Roll called 16 
presidents, 10 counselors, 2 teachers, 2 secre-
taries responded. Minutes of last conference
read and accepted, reports read.

[column 2]
	Mrs. Grant: “I have implicit confidence in
our Heavenly Father that He will override
all things for the good of His people.  I hope
we appreciate our blessings, we can enjoy
peace of mind and the spirit of the Gospel, let
us have charity for each other, I wish we could
live so pure as that the wicked could be
bound, but the Lord knows best.  There is a
great work for us all to do, when I think of
the work for the dead I think we have a great 
deal to do, I fear we let our minds dwell too 
much on the things of the world.  How dif-
ferent things are now to what they were when
we came to these valleys, then we were thank-
ful for great blessings, now we are blessed with
all the luxuries, are we as thankful as we were
then?  Well let us be patient and trust in the
Lord and let us acknowledge His hand in all
things."
	Mrs. Kimball gave good counsel on the Re-
port question, though there is an improvement,
still there is room for more, let us improve in
all that is educational.
	Mrs. Horne said: "I am pleased and proud
of the work done by the R. S. of this stake;"
instructed the Secretaries to send in their re-
ports before the 20th of Feb. and 20th of Aug.
"We are ambitious that we get credit for the
work we do, years ago when we were poorer
than we are now, we were given more to re-
ligious duties and spiritual affairs, it looks as
if we had now too many worldly things to take
care of and we neglect that, that is for our 
eternal welfare.
	There are those in our country who have
a desire to destroy the youth of the Latter-
day Saints let us put our children on their
guard to be able to overcome such temptations,
we do need to watch the morals of our youth,
let us be honest, let us pay back what we
borrow, so that we may have full confidence in
each other, where there is confidence there is
union, let us be united, we are being tried now,
but if we stand the test the Lord will deliver
us in His own due time.  Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., singing “Our God we raise to
Thee," benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.

	2 p. m., Conference continued by singing
"For the strength of the hills," prayer by Mrs.
Emily Stevenson.  Singing "O, say what is
truth."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said: "The Relief Society
is a help to the work of the Gospel we expect
to always have the poor to help, and every
other labor that pertains to the work of God
on the earth.  Let our works correspond with
our teachings and set a good example before
the growing generation; let us pass over our
trials and keep hold of the iron rod, let us be
humble and faithful to the end."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: “I know you have
come to be fed to give you new thoughts with
regard to our labors.  The Latter-day Saints 
have a strength, a spiritual strength more
than any other people on the earth.  Therefore
when we have the inspiration of this spirit we
help and bless each other.
	Mrs. E. Howard, desired the inspiration of
the spirit of God, “we get careless in attending
meetings and it becomes hard to live as Lat-
ter-day Saints, do not patronise outside attrac-
tions; now we do not seem to be different from
other people, we are on the verge of some im-
portant change, let us be prepared for what
may come.  There should be honesty that there
may be unity.
	Honesty should prevail in our midst, purity
must prevail if we would enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, let the Young Ladies co-operate
with the Relief Society they are needed and
the association will do them good, we should
watch and pray that we fail not in our callings,
let us each make a little heaven at home.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said: "I hope we all have
a testimony of the Gospel, and not let a spirit

[column 3]
of indifference creep over us so that we will be
asleep. We should be a peculiar people in
faith, in healing the sick, in the blessings of
the Gospel. Many are cultivating the knowl-
edge of the Gospel, but many are getting care-
less, let us teach our children the faith that
can heal our sick.  We are living in perilous
times and we are getting to love pleasure more
than right, spending money in many ways
that are not right, true pleasure is not enjoyed
in such things, it is only by the presence of
the spirit of God we enjoy true pleasure, let
us set an example that is worthy of imitation
in all things, let us look after those who are get-
ting lukewarm, or careless in the ways of the
Gospel, may God help us to magnify our call-
ing."
	Mrs. Horne said: "Guard well your children
you can't be too watchful over them, it is the
plan of the Devil to lead away the children
of Zion from the truth.  Let prayer be our
safe-guard and pray with our children that
they may have a knowledge for themselves of
the truth of this work, let us wake up to seek 
the kingdom of God first, let us take time
to go to all meetings.  Remember that the
Lord rules and will turn all things to our
good, we must be firm and steadfast to the
principles of the Gospel, let us be prepared for
all the trials that may come even to the
giving up of our property or even our lives,
still I don't think there will be any bloodshed
in our day, in our most trying times the Lord
has been with us, we are not cast down we
have plenty around us, the Lord requires us to
make a good use of the blessings He has given
us.  Let us be up and doing and watch as well
as pray and do good to all we can.
	Mrs. Susan S. Young said: "I am thankful
for what I have heard here today, the organi-
zation of the Priesthood is perfect, and the R.
S. is patterned after the Pristhood, therefore
should be kept in perfect organization.  If we are
in possession of the spirit of God we are filled
with peace.  Let us say all the time O, Lord
help me to do right, we want Him to help us
always, if we do right the Lord will help us,
and bless us and give us power to overcome.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths said: "We have seen a
great deal worse times than we are living in
now, but the Lord rescued us, and He will
again.  I rejoice in the knowledge of the
Gospel, I had the privilege of shaking hands
with the Prophet in Nauvoo, and the precious
feeling of friendship has never left my hand
yet; the Priesthood is here the same as it was
when the Prophet Joseph was on the earth, and
let us honor it by being obedient to the
commandments given from God.
	Mrs. Horne spoke on the education of our
children, not to have them taught by those not
knowing the Gospel,  "we have had warning
enough on this subject, let us keep our children
at home before we send them to schools that
will lead them away from us; let us stay stead-
fast to all the principles of our holy relig-
ion.' "
	Conference adjourned for three months.  The
Presidency of the Relief Society were voted
for unanimously, then the Presidency of the
Relief Society of this Stake were sustained.
Singing "Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
Benediction by Mrs. Mary S. Clark.
