PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL.
EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY.
	Sister Presendia was eighty years old on the
7th of September 1890—but the anniversary was 
celebrated on the following day Monday the 8th.
About fifty of her friends, most of whom have
been in the habit of assembling there annually,
came with baskets of delicacies and luxuries to
tempt the appetite, and with joyful faces and glad
hearts to comfort, cheer and bless this reverened
mother in Israel who had blessed them and thou-
sands of others in times past, and now when
time has furrowed her brow and whitened her
locks, the daughters of Zion are ready to praise
and honor her.
	The gathering naturally assumed the form of a
meeting as all were anxious for a spiritual feast as
well as a temporal one.
	The meeting opened with the inspirational
hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
An eloquent prayer was offered by Sister Agatha
Pratt, and then all joined again in singing, "Come
let us anew &c."
	Sister Presendia then addressed the sisters in
her motherly manner, expressed her gratitude
that she was permitted to meet them once more
this side the vail.  Brother Gibbons an old friend
of Sister Kimball's spoke a few words, said it was
the first time he had been in a meeting of that
kind but felt the spirit of the Lord was there.
Sisters Milom, Farrow, Cook, Aimed, Culmer
Nebeker, Coon, Pratt, Phelps, Higbee, Mary
Ellen Kimball, Stepheson, Riges, Delia Ann
Pratt, Marry Ann Pratt, Margaret M. Caine,
Maggie Sharp, and others said many good things,
blessed Sister Kimball prayed for her complete


restoration from the accident which befell her in
May and which had debared her from the privi-
lege of attending meetings since, blessed her habi-
tation and surroundings.
	Sister Kimball expressed her happiness in the
midst of so many kind sisters and friends was
grateful for their kind wishes and presence; said
how much she had enjoyed working for the liv-
ing and the dead; advised all to be humble and
work righteousness, blessed all that were as-
sembled there with a mother’s and sister’s bless-
ing. During the afternoon Sister Coon spoke in
tongues and Sister Paul gave the interpretation.
At the close they all joined in singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.” Benediction
by Sister Elizabeth Stephenson.
	Sister Presendia received several beautiful and
useful gifts from her friends; but the best of all
was the kind feeling and good spirit that brooded
over the party while they were joining in prayer
and praise.
	Sister Presendia’s life has been full and rich in
the experiences calculated to develop the higher
and better nature, and for the last forty years a
great proportion of her time has been occupied in
ministering to the sick and afflicted, the sorrowing
and downcast. She has been specially gifted in
faith and in other precious gifts of the Gospel.
Her name is known and honored throughout all
Israel. The writer adds her congratulations and
good wishes to those of the many friends who
unite in praising her good works, and wishing
her continued health and prosperity.


