UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society held
Aug 29th 1890 in the Meeting House of Provo
City.  President Mary John presiding, with
her Counselor Marilla M. Daniels. Sister Lucy
B. Young also present, Conference opened by
singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference, written reports from the
different branches throughout the county were
also read.


[column 1]
	Pres. John made a few opening remarks.
Spoke of the pleasure it was to her to meet
with the Sisters in Conference, and to hear
the reports read and to mark the progression
of the Society.  Spoke encouragingly to the
sisters and exhorted them to continue faithful
to the end.  Said she would now give way for
the Presidents to report the branches over
which they presided.  Fourteen branches were
reported as being faithful to their duties, united
and energetic in their labors.  The gifts of
the Gospel were often made manifest in their
meetings and a general good feeling was among
the sisters; there were a great many strong
testimonies horne to the truth of the Gospel
and a great deal of good instruction given, the
Spirit of the Lord was in our midst to a
great degree, one sister spoke in tongues, and
another gave the interpretation which was of 
a nature to comfort and encouraage the Saints
in well doing.
	Many sisters spoke whose remarks would
be well worth reading if time and space would
permit.  The forenoon services were concluded
by singing "May the grace of Christ our
Savior."  Benediction by Marilla M. Daniels.
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session, Convened at 2 p. m.
opened with the usual exercises.  Prayer by
Father-Graves, Sister Rebecca — Standring of
Lehi was the first speaker in the afternoon,
after reporting her society she bore  her testi-
mony to the truth of this work.  Said it was
forty years since she had embraced the Gospel,
and felt thankful every day that she had
embraced it, there was nothing on this earth 
that could compare with it, or that she would
exchange for it, had many testimonies of its
truth.  We came here for a purpose, our
mission was given us, and we need the Holy 
Spirit of God to enable us to accomplish it.
We need his Spirit to guide us that we may
detect  the true spirits from the false.  Let us
set examples worthy of imitation.  I gave up
everything near and dear for the Gospel but
His arm of love has been around me and
sustained me, and I pray that I may hold out
faithful to the end.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt that we had all
come here to day for a blessing and we had
been blessed for the Lord is with us; it is all
the kingdom of God. Let us use every bless-
ing for good, the Lord will suddenly come to
His temple and let us be ready  with oil in
our lamps, and our garments ready for his
coming.  Sister Young gave a great deal of
good instruction to the sisters on various
subjects.
	Sister Marilla M. Daniels knew that Joseph 
Smith was a prophet of God, and if we would
live up to his teachings we would be saved 
She gave an account of the visit of Pres. John
and herself to the branches of the R. S. in the
different wards in the county, found a good
spirit wherever they went ect. Pres. John felt
the time was well spent in receiving good in-
structions and hoped we would treasure up
and remember them.  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Singing Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing," Benediction by Anna K.
Smoot.
