UN-MARRIED.

I dare not breathe my secret to the ears,
	Of nearest, dearest kindred that I know;
But to my pictured shadow, without fear
	I pour in unreserve my withering woe.

They tell me I am fair, my form divine,
	My eyes are clear, my hair of sunny hue.
My mind well cultured, and my chances fine,
	My life all blameless, womanly and true.

Oh senseless jewels, glittering points of light.
	Rich costly drapings on a comely form, 
You have no power to bring my life delight,
	Nor keep my heart's deep currents bright and warm.

I am a woman, and I must have love,
	I feel the need of children on my knee, 
I am as lone as wretched cast away
	On desert island, in an unknown sea.

Oh shadow of the face in yonder glass,
	Why had you not the power to bring me love,
Oh Jeptha’s daughter in thy mountain pass
	Is thy reproach still thine in heaven above?

Why has no human love, near, warm and sweet,
	Held that deep cup of nectar to my lip,
And laid a true heart at my humble feet
	God knows how gladly I the cup would sip.

My heart has thirsted, famished shrunk, grown old
	While tortured by the sight of food and drink.
For woman’s modesty bids us to wait
	Hedged in by social customs link in link.

Oh thou dear one! whom God designed should walk
	Helper, upholder, lover, husband, friend;
Where are you! Come to me. I’ve waited long-
	Come to me love, or I alone must walk.

I fear no poverty, no pain or woe,
	No frown of fortune and no stoop of pride.
My prince of men on winged feet I’d go
	Upheld by love, if but by thy dear side.

I feel myself, upon the tree of life
	A withered bough, a blasted smitten fruit;
An instrument untuned, or tuned to strife,
	A festal song poured through a shattered flute.

What wonder women, seeing such as I
	Will drink of muddy lees, and link their life,
With men who never knew until they died;
	The tender glory in the name of wife.

I am so lonely, that I could not bear, 
	The wasted time, the torn and shattered hopes,
The loneliness, the longing and despair
	But through the darkness my sad spirit gropes-

To that great light and love and endless power
	God the great Father ever kind and true.
But what can pay me for the lone last hour?
	And woman’s birthright,—that is lost to me?

Still will I dress my body with great care,
	Comfort the sick, and make the downcast glad.
I bear my cross; but O, Thou righteous God,
	My woman's heart is withered, sick and sad.

But when I see a mother clasp her child.
	A noble husband honoring his wife,
My heart is filled with sorrow deep and wild.
	For that is Eden, what I live, is life. 
									E. J.


