MASSACRE IN CARTHAGE JAIL

	[Ogden Standard Special,--S. F. Chronicle Service]
	CARTHAGE, Ill., Sept. 11.--An interesting re-
covery was made by Thomas B. C[---], a pioneer
citizen, while hunting [---] pile of rubbish in
one of the courthouse jail rooms. It is the origi-
nal co[---]'s verdict on the killing of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith at the old Carthage jail, on June,
27, 1844. The verdict reads as follows:

	"We the jury, having been duly sworn by 
George W. Stigall, coroner of Hancock county,
diligently to inquire and a true presentment make
in what manner and by whom Joseph Smith and 
Hyrum Smith, whose dead bodies were found in 
and at the Jail of Hancock county on the 27th day
of June, 1844, came to their deaths, after having 
heard the evidence and upon full inquiry concern-
ing the facts and a careful examination of the said
bodies do find that the deceased came to their
deaths by violence, and that the body of the said
Joseph Smith has upon it the following marks,
to-wit: A wound of a bullet near the right breast
and another in the right shoulder near the neck; 
and that the said Hyrum Smith has the following
marks, to-wit: A wound in the throat by a bullet
and a wound in the abdomen; inflicted by some 
person or persons to the jury unknown and which
the jury find to be the cause of their deaths."
	The document is signed by Wesley Williams, 
Franklin J. Bartlett, Aaron Griffiths, Anthony 
Barklan, George C. Waggoner, Peter Biean,
George Bachman, Thomas Barnett, Elam S.
Freeman, John Maherman, Simon Pennock, 
Samuel Gilpin.
	The endorsement reads: "Verdict of jury on


inquest upon the bodies of Joseph Smith and
Hyrum Smith, filed October 25, 1844.
		J. B. BACKENSTOS, Clerk."
	The document does not appear to have been
filed until four months after the killing and the
inquest. There can be on doubt at to its genuine-
ness. If is written on an excellent quality of old
style line foolscap, faintly ruled, and is discolored
by time.  So far as known, the only person now
living who was on that jury is Mr. George C.
Waggoner, of Pilot Grove township.  Mr.
Griffiths, who found the paper; saw the Smith 
killing.  He was a member of the Carthage
Grays that guarded the jail.


