L. D. S. WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the 
sisters was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms July 19, 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened with singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Stevenson, singing 
"When the voice of friendship's heard," Pres.
Horne made opening remarks which were very
suggestive of the signs of the times and the in-
difference that existed among the people de-
plored the lack of zeal and earnestness in 
spiritual things and urged the sisters to attend 
to every duty devolving upon them.  Was
thankful for all the trials she had endured and 
through which she had been enabled to stand.
	Mrs. Sarah Phelps who had been absent
from the Saints for some time, rejoiced to be 
again in the midst of the sisters, realized many
of us were growing old but our children
would come forward and carry on the work 
we had begun.
	Pres. E. S. Taylor gave an account of her 
recent visit through Oneida Stake, where the 
sisters had held 28 meetings during their trip.
Remarked what a large number of children 
there were in Chesterfield, counted 30 little
boys on one row of seats; commended very
highly the diligence of the sisters there in at-
tending their meetings though many had to go 
such long distances.
	Sisters Seabeck, E. Stevenson, J. C. Howe,
M. Player, F. Smith, Dyer and Dr. E. S.
Barney each made brief remarks. Dr. Barney
gave some of her experience in conversing with 
strangers, thought the time not far distant 
when many would come here and receive the 
Gospel.  Pres. Horne said she could bear the 
same testimony of the people in Sanpete Stake
that Sister Taylor had of those in Oneida, re-
joiced in the sisters' meetings, and wished there
were more sisters who realized the importance
of meeting together for mutual benefit. Her
love for the Gospel had grown stronger in her 
fifty years experience; said it was twenty-five
years since these meetings were organized if 
her memory was correct on the subject.  Ad-
journed for two weeks, singing "When shall
we all meet again," benediction by Mrs. Julia 
Pack.

	Saturday August 2nd, Coun. B. W. Smith
presided at the meeting, singing was followed 
with prayer by Mrs. Julia Pack, singing "For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee," minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Mrs. Rachel Grant was the first speaker, she
had been absent a long time and had visited
some of the settlements of our people in
Colorado, they are very desirous that others
should visit them they need encouragement,
they need assistance, the speaker gave a 
graphic account of the condition of the settle-
ments and spoke eloquently upon the times in 
which we are living and the great events 
transpiring around us.
	Coun. Minerva W. Snow, said "we are lay-
ing up treasures in heaven, as I grow older I 
can see that the trials I have passed through
have been good for me and brought me nearer
[column 2]
to my Father in heaven, He will carry us
safely through and we will come off victorious
if we are obedient and faithful.  In my labors 
in the Temple I feel I am as near my Father
as I can get, at times I feel that our dear ones
who have passed away are very near us, as 
Brother Wells says, the veil is getting very 
thin between the living and the dead, the 
more work we do for the dead, the greater
our desire to do for them.  When I leave 
the Temple and come to this City I feel as 
though I was in another world; but we must 
not be discouraged, the day of our redemption
is nigh and may we never falter."
	Mrs. E. Stevenson loved to meet with those
who had been associated with the Prophets 
and Apostles, and had borne the heat and 
burden of the day, she would rather abide in 
the House of the Lord on half-rations than
not be there; thought it was more difficult
now than ever to raise our children right, had
once heard Brother Taylor say that the 
Prophet Joseph gave him a key whereby he 
would never apostatize, it was that he should 
attend to his prayers night and morning. 
	A prayer was then offered for a sick boy by
Mrs. Mary Silver, and a hymn was sung by the 
congregation.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said she was struck
with the request of Sister Silver in her prayer
that the Lord send an angel to touch the child
with a healing finger, she thought the Lord
had done that on many occasions.  In con-
versing with Brother Wells once he made the 
remark that we had come out of Babylon, but
had brought Babylon with us, we would not 
have believed ten years ago that we would be in 
the condition we are today.  I rejoice that the 
time is not far distant when Christ will reign,
I hope the Lord will help us to dispense peace
comfort and joy, it is the mission of us all, we
are full of errors but if we are humble the 
Lord will be merciful. 
	"Dr. Barney, "We are all different in our 
feelings until we are touched with the spirit 
of the Holy Ghost, then we are one, the events 
we have been looking for in years past are
right at our doors. Our enemies have stolen 
from the storehouse of the Lord; and we know
if we serve the Lord we must suffer persecu-
tion.  We must not waste our time but edu-
cate our children to fill our places."
	Mrs. M. Silver spoke upon voting, "if we 
cannot vote ourselves now as we did formerly
we can help and influence our fathers, hus-
bands and sons, I think it is an important
duty."
	Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough gave some good 
advice to mothers.
	Coun. B. W. Smith made a few closing re-
marks.  Meeting adjourned for two weeks, 
singing "Great God to Thee,"
	Saturday August 16th, Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding.  Meeting opened by singing "Oh
my Father" prayer by Mrs. J. Pack, singing
"Guide us, O, thou great Jehovah." Minutes
read and approved.  In Pres. Horne's opening
remarks she referred to a meeting she had at-
tended in Granite where Pres. Woodruff and
Brother Penrose had been the speakers, and 
they had spoken very strong of faith, without
which very little could be accomplished, that
is pleasing in the sight of the Lord.  Read a
chapter in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
upon Faith, and spoke earnestly upon the sub-
ject, also read a revelation upon baptism for 
the dead, and advised the sisters to read often
from this book, and gave excellent instruction
upon diligence, cautioned the sisters to beware
of slothfulness; she gave a strong testimony
concerning Joseph the Prophet, referred to the 
great blessings he received from the Lord and 
the vast amount of work he accomplished in 
the fourteen years be presided over the Church 
and then he sealed his testimony with his 
blood.
[column 3]
	Mrs. Susan S. Young thought it would be 
well for us all to read more from good books,
she could always find something new, testi-
fied to the truth of work in which we are en-
gaged, and said "I stand as a living witness of 
its truth, in the great trial I was called to pass
through last fall, I felt I had not the strength
to endure it, but I kept the word of wisdom
and prayed to my heavenly Father in great
faith and I have gained in health ever since,
I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in it all."
	Mrs. Norman bore a faithful testimony and 
spoke of the goodness of God to us as a peo-
ple.
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon faith and 
also of the wisdom the young ladies manifested
in their meetings, thought they were making 
great progress in gaining true knowledge.
Related a dream in which the Lord had said,
"I will preserve my people."
	A number of sisters bore testimony and 
many excellent things were said to bless and 
encourage the sisters in their labors.
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke concerning our trials
and advised all to be humble and go to the 
Lord with their troubles and He would help 
them in every time of need, if we have faith
enough we can always get comfort.
	Pres. Horne added a few words of encourage-
ment and the meeting was adjourned for two 
weeks, sung Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Brown.

	Saturday Aug. 30th, Pres. Horne presiding
meeting opened with singing "O, say what is 
truth" prayer by Mrs. M. Silver, singing "O,
my Father," minutes read and approved.
	Pres. Horne spoke upon the "Golden Rule,
and what happiness its observance would bring
about, spoke of the need of seeking to correct
our own weaknesses, and of the humility neces-
sary for those who stand up to teach the prin-
ciples of truth.  Mrs. Waterfall made a few
remarks and expressed her great desire to do 
good and live faithful.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze spoke upon the effects of 
prayer, and the need of acknowledging the 
hand of the Lord in all things even in death
and how hard it was for us to do so except
we had the spirit of the Lord with us.  It is
hardest when our children go astray, yet we
know the Lord suffers nothing to come to his 
people except what will eventually be for the 
best good of his children.
	Mrs. Watmough and Pres. M. McMaster
and several other sisters spoke of the tempta-
tions now before the young and upon other
interesting subjects, and related some circum-
stances of marvelous healing of the sick.
	Mrs. Harriet Young said: "It is a great sat-
isfaction to me to speak to my sisters, I have 
been in the Church a long time and have had 
much experience.  All who know me know 
that I am naturally sceptical;" gave her idea of 
baptism, and the necessity of explaining it to 
our children.
	Pres. Horne announced the R. S. Confer-
ence on the 11th of September and hoped those 
present would urge the sisters to come to the 
Conference. Meeting adjourned for four weeks. 
Sung "The time is far spent." Benediction
by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson. 
