BY AMELIA K. WING.

	The whole duty of officers is not recorded in
Cushing's Manual, or in any book devoted
simply to parliamentary usage.
	It is absolutely essential that an officer be 
conversant with these laws and abide by them.


[column 1]
﻿but club members must feel that the success
and popularity of an officer depend quite as
much upon her compliance witn certain un-
written laws as upon her knowledge of those
well defined, fixed rules which all expect her
to recognize.
	From a somewhat extended experience of
official life in various capacities, as well as
observation of both failures and successes, I
venture to define more clearly some of those
vague, unexpressed laws which make the
difference between one officer and another, but
which not all quite understand, premising
always that my remarks refer to officers of
women’s club, and are not necessarily
applicable to other organizations.
THE PRESIDENT.
	Of course it is a great advantage if a presi-
dent has received the mental discipline of a
college education, and is familiar with all the
modern methods of thought and training; if she
understands several languages, is able to quote
with ease,and is authority for correct pronuncia-
tion and style. But college bred women are
not as yet, numerous, and are generally young
and a woman may be able to fill all these re-
quirements and still be an unsuitable president.
	She must have had sufficient education to
render her familiar with all general subjects,
to give her clear ideas and ability to express
them correctly, and if, as has been declared,
"education is nine parts mental friction," the
other tenth should be sheer native ability.
	But the first requirement is earnestness of
purpose and enthusiasm in her work, so that
she may be natural in her actions, and able
to rise above any timidity and discouragement,
at times almost forgetting her own existence.
	If she have this zeal her associates will
forgive many failures in other respects, and if
she have it not, in some degree, she will be
self-conscious and hesitating, and no amount of
knowlege or skill will atone for it or make her
a popular officer.
	A president should in a measure, have a
judicial mind, enabling her to see all sides of
the question, especially the truth that is on
the side of the minority. She should be
strictly impartial and impersonal in her rulings
being guided only by what seems to her right
and according to the best usage. Her own
[---] she must ignore, as she is there to
carry out the [-]ishes of the club and to be 
the medium of its op[---]ions.  Her views may 
be expressed in meetings [--] the Board of 
Directors, and her personality can[---] but be
impressed upon the club through her influen[--]
upon the offices and various committees.
	In the chair she should have sufficient con-
centration to be able to follow carefully the
line of thought of each speaker, and enough
acquaintance with the subject to occasionally
ask a suggestive question or advance an idea
when the discussion lags; at the same time
she should be on the alert to see every one
who enters the room, and observe and en-
courage any one who may wish to speak; she
should have dignity without severity, to
which a sense of humor always adds a grace;
she should have a kind heart that can
recognize an honest effort, and be quick to
cover a failure or a mistake; and she should
encourage and draw out the timid, never
allowing the meeting to be monopolized by
a few.
	If possible she should know each member
by name, as well as something of her charac-
teristics; and she should be conversant with
the workings of every committee, as she will
thus avoid mistakes and be better able to
ward off or to harmonize differences.
	She should never interfere in the work of
the committees, or decide for them, but be
ever ready with suggestion or helpful thought
when she sees they are needed or welcome.
And let her not be afraid to express approba-

[column 2]
tion in an appreciative aud not in a patroniz-
ing manner.	
	While the position demands au oversight of
all, it does not justify an assumption of
superiority, which is always offensive.
	True appreciation of the responsib[-]lity and
value of an office, and a self confidence,
without which it could never be rightly filled
are entirely consistent with a proper estimate
of one's self,and with the humility and modesty
which are ever born of high ideals.
THE VICE PRESIDENT.
	The qualities necessary for the president ap-
ply equally to the vice-president, as circum-
stnces may transfer the duties of the offiice to
her a large share of the time.
[To be continued.]


