NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Presbyterian order of deaconesses is under
consideration.
	Hereafter, girls will be admitted to the
State Agricultural School of Rhode Island.
	Julia Brink, a medical writer of some
note, has received from the British Medical
Association of London $I00 to defray the
expense of publishing a physiological treatise
on the nutrition of the muscles. Dr. Brink is
the first woman to be thus honored. 
	Ex.
The South Dakota Equal Suffrage Song
Book, is a collection of spirited suffrage songs.
Unlike most suffrage song books hitherto
published, the music is given as well as
the words. Price ten cents. Address W. F,
Bailey secretary South Dakota E. J. A. Room
9, Hills block, Huron, South Dakota.
	The good gospel of equal human rights for
women is spreading everywhere. At this
moment, the Hampton Guardain, published
at Hampton Court House, South Carolina,
gives the use of its columns to publish extracts
from the excellent speech of George Wm.
Curtis on "Fair Play for Women.”Mrs. Virginia
D. Young edits a column in this paper.
	Wyoming had its first State election on
Thursday Sep. 11th to choose State officers
and a Legislature. For twenty one years the
women of Wyoming have had full political
rights, and have voted at every territorial
election, during that time. The men of
Wyoming, in the most loyal way, have stood
by the rights of the women, and now having
come, into Statehood together they will unite
in the choice of [---] United States Senators.


[Column 1]﻿
NOTICE.
	On October 14, Dr. Romania B. Pratt will be-
gin another class in obstetrics. A limited num-
ber of students will be given positions in the
Deseret Hospital, where further particulars may
be obtained from the Doctor. Those who take
advantage of this opportunity to advance in this
important branch of study cannot do better than
identify themselves with the class, Dr. Pratt be-
ing a thoroughly competent teacher.

[Column 2]
[image of Union Pacific shield]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT- 
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

