Then came the great inspiration. "The turkey!" Heber fairly shouted. "We don't need it, either, but?" The pause indicated a prompting to run upstairs and ask grandma but wiser counsel prevailed. Refusal from that quarter was pretty certain, so he went on acting on his own initiative. Awkwardly the little hands eased the great roaster. From the oven into the wagon. This accomplished, Heber lifted the lid with a flourish, revealing to the bulging eyes of his guests the THE GREAT INSPIRATION 561 beautifully browned breast of the turkey with great masses of savory stuffing to right and left. Even then there was still room in the wagon. Searching about for something to fill the interstices Heber found the cookies and emptied. The jar into the wagon. Then putting into the hands of each of the young Greeks a succulent mince pie and himself manipulating the wagon the cavalcade departed for the Pappodocias hovel on the river front. IV Returning from church, Mrs. Lamar found an angel-faced little boy awaiting her. He stayed very close to her while she removed her wraps and donned her apron. He was watching keenly as she opened the oven door. "Why?why?" she gasped. "Where on earth??" Just at this dramatic moment Aunt Nell came into the kitchen. Seeing the consternation upon her sister's face she immediately found the cause in the yawning and empty oven. "Why, Grace," she shrilled, "what on earth? Do you suppose it could have been??" "What is it?" asked the minister as he, too, came into the kitchen. "Why, the turkey's gone!" cried Aunt Nell, gesturing wildly toward the open oven. "It is gone!" she added, and by this time her voice was a positive screech. "And Grace, for mercy sake look, the cocoanut cake's gone, too! Didn't you leave it right there?" "Merciful days!" cried Mrs. Lamar, dropping helplessly into a chair. "Thieves have come in and taken the things." "But Heber, wasn't he here?" demanded the minister. "Where is he now?" "Here I am," came a still small voice. "Where were you all morning, son?" his mother asked. "Were you upstairs with grandma? Did you hear anything?any noise of any kind?" Alarmed at the turn affairs seemed to be taking Heber quailed under the questions of his elders. "Come, what happened, Heber?" said his father, pulling the boy to a position between his knees as he sat down. "Well, father, you said the Pappodocias fam'ly ought to have something 'done for ' em," Heber stammered. "Yes, so I did,?but let's stay on the subject. Do you know what happened to the turkey and the cake?" "And the mince pies, too," wailed Aunt Nell. "Come, come, son," insisted the minister, "did you see or hear anyone in the kitchen?" Heber's eyes sought his mother's in mute appeal and something 
  there so fine and clear seemed to compel a definite answer from him. "Yes," he said, "I know all about it." "You do?" shrieked Aunt Nell. "What was it? Thieves?" - Then came the story, clean and true. The Pappodocias children didn't know there was a Thanksgiving day, and they had never had a turkey or a cake or a mince pie in all their lives, and their father was sick, and the school nurse said he was doomed, and everything. Three pairs of adult eyes met over Heber's head and there. Were tears in them all. "What did you think we would do for Thanksgiving dinner?" asked the minister and his voice was very gentle with just the suspicion of a catch in it, "with Uncle Jason and the twins and cousins Harry and Marie and Aunt Minnie all coming?" "Well, father, they're all big and hearty and so are we," Heber defended himself," and the Pappodocias fam'ly are all so skinny and thin, and they never did have a turkey or a cake or mince pies and their father being doomed and all." "But child?" began Aunt Nell. "Anyway," persisted Heber, not permitting Aunt Nell's interruption, "we still got two mince pies and a big nice choc'late cake.": An hour later when a very much curtailed dinner was at last upon the table there came one more tragic cry from the kitchen. "And if he didn't give them every last one of the cookies, too!" The voice was Aunt Nell's.. List of Literary Lessons for the Year 1927 Richard Burton, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Edwin Arlington Robinson, Paul Lawrence Dunbar, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, George Santayana, Lizette Woodworth Reese, Edgar Lee Masters, Vachel Lindsay. Reference Books: "New Voices," By Marguerite Wilkinson. "Modern American Poetry," by Louis Untermeyer.