Editorial
======================================================================

EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith.....  Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Mrs. Phoebe Y. B'eatie Miss Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Edna Sarah May Davis McLelland Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. . - - Susa Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. AUGUST, 1919. No. 8. OUR RELIEF SOCIETY WARD TEACHERS. Not even the faithful and diligent officers of our Relief Society are deserving of more credit and more completely earn the love and gratitude of every man and woman in this Church than do the ward teachers of this great Society. It is impossible to even guess at the sacrifices made by these women and the good accomplished by them, in their visits monthly from house to house and from block to block. We know them and love them, and we know that not only in this world are they blessed, but that God and the angels await their return to the Other Side to crown them with the glory which is to be theirs. In this sphere of mortality, where life is too often measured by worldly success and superior intellectual gifts, their worth is often not realized, their value not measured. Every virtue in women's character is developed and required by those who attend faithfully to this humble but magnificent work. Faith, hope, infinite charity, long suffering patience, love unfeigned, these are the shields and bucklers which the Relief Society teacher girds upon her when she goes out with prayerful heart to minister in the homes of the people. The sick know her well, the fainting mother who welcomes her visit mourns her departure. The poor see God's own smile on her countenance when she enters their door, bringing both food and encouragement to their downcast and depleted homes. Wliat she doeth no man may measure, her reward no mortal can describe. Upon the teacher rests the large responsibility not only of ministeringto the needy and visiting the fatherless, it is to her labors also that the ward president looks for an increased membership in the society and for better attendance at meetings. Many times the teacher is at a loss just how to discharge this heavy obligation. She is willing to leave her home and spend several afternoons a month in her district either alone or with her companion, but she is often at a loss how to proceed in encouraging women to join the Society or to persuade laggard members to attend meetings regularly. She does not always know what to talk about and oftentimes her many cares at home and her natural modesty and diffidence hinders her from, talking on the principles of the gospel as she would like to do when she goes into the homes, lest she may unwillingly give offense. Her one greatest hope and help is in prayer. But she needs also some help and hope from those around her. Will it not advantage our whole membership to pay a little more public attention to our ward teachers, so that they may be stimulated and encouraged in their labors? Should they not have a special seat reserved for them in Relief Society meetings, on the front benches? It is doubtful if all wards and stake boards have a teacher's committee to supervise the labors of the ward teachers; to suggest topics, to discuss problems, and to systematize and regulate their visiting where possible. This might be done in union meetings, and the teachers should receive as much attention and be given a separate division of study as are the class teachers in other departments of our work. A teachers' convention given annually or biennially is an excellent method of encouragement and stimulation for these faithful and devoted women. The program should follow along the duties and privileges belonging to this lovely labor, while the priesthood should be invited and the public made welcome to the convention itself. Ward officers have much to do, so do we all, but their work would be lightened and responsibilities lessened and some vexing problems solved, if a little more thought and attention were paid to the ward teachers and their labors. We commend these suggestions to our sisters everywhere, and the General Board joins in loving salutations to the noble teachers of our great Relief Society. "GOSPEL DOCTRINE." A volume containing selections from the sermons and writings of our late beloved President Joseph F. Smith, has just been published by the Committee on Courses of Study for the Priesthood. This book is quite different in scope and conception to anything yet attempted in our Church Literature. It is a magnificent composite picture of the great man who uttered the truths contained therein grouped and classified by a loving, reverent friend. What manner of man he was may better be determined through this book than by any biography whatsoever or by marble bust or painted picture. Doctor John A. Widtsoe has conceived and executed a remarkable monument to the memory and greatness of Zion's noble and powerful leader. The catholicity of President Smith's utterances, his depth of insight, his succinct mode of treating problems, his lucid approach to thought, and his powerful conclusions on any subject that he treated is admirably developed in this volume of his writings. No need of personal description of the man for no characterization, howsoever elaborately penned or enthusiastically described, could visualize him as does this valume. He stands before the reader the simple, direct, magnetic and chosen leader with few equals and no peers, save and except only his worshiped uncle the Prophet Joseph Smith and his revered, fatherly guide and protector, Brigham Young. Dr. Widtsoe was assisted in this great labor of love by his close friends and President Smith's ardent admirers, Professor Osborne J. P. Widtsoe, Albert E. Bowen, Frank S. Harris (grandnephew of Martin Harris) and Joseph Quinney, while Bishop Lorenzo N. Stohl generously paid the clerical expenses attendant upon the work. Not only does this book present a life portrait of President Joseph F. Smith, it likewise presents all.students of Church literature with a convenient reference book on the principles of the gospel with authoritative statements classified, compiled and indexed for instant use. Oh, that we had such a volume of the writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Brigham Young. What a contribution of real worth these three volumes would make for students who really want the gems of truth set m a circlet of golden value for convenient use and daily application. The book itself is one of the strongest spiritual compilations ever produced. It reveals President Smith as one the greatest and most inspired teachers of the gospel, who ever lived upon this earth. He shows such a careful, conservative spirit, he does not delve into mysteries, and yet there is such a depth of spiritual power that one is refreshed and inspired by reading a single page. No finer book except only the ancient and modern scriptures was ever put in print. It will live as long as time endures and truth remains.