[Vol22 | September 1935 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: truest thing ever said Social Service]

truest thing ever said Social Service (Fourth Week in February) LESSON V. THE NEW FAMILY HOME Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter VI. The General purposes of this lesson are: 1. To appreciate the importance of the home in modern civilization. 2. To acquire, through increased knowledge, a greater feeling of responsibility in building a_ better home. 588 'A nation is what its homes are. With these it rises and falls, and it can rise no higher than the level of its home life." Wise, Stephen S., "Parent Versus Child." A review of the principal facts in the rise and fall of nations will show a very close relation between the success of a people as a nation and the success of the average family in that nation as a unit. The family has been rightfully called the basic institution of society upon which all other institutions have been built. In social studies an institution is described as an established phase of the public mind. It is the universally approved method of organizing and regulating the relations of men and women in performing a desirable and needed social function. A number of basic institutions are recognized, among which may be mentioned, in addition to the family, the church as an organized system of religious expression; education as the authorized means of passing the information of the day on to the next generation; government as an accepted means of control of social action, and property as the established means of protecting individual property rights. Others may be mentioned, but probably none are as basic. The ultimate right of all institutions to exist is the efficient performance of desirable social functions. Wherever these functions are not performed efficiently the institution should be so modified and changed that it will serve the best interests of society. The home is called basic in institutional life, because from it evolves the very nature of social organization and national security. From it the child derives his basic ideas of obedience, of citizenship, of respect for authority, his spiritual and 


 religious ideals, and even his ideas of speech. Upon the integrity of the home rests the future promises of life itself. The home of today stands out in marked contrast to the home of earlier periods. It is losing many of its desirable social functions. A primitive woman was not only a mother; she was a farmer, a carrier of burdens, a miller, stoneworker, basketmaker, weaver, potter, meat curer, cook, and baker. In many of these arts the women were extremely skilled. In many North American Indian tribes the women held a position of supreme importance, often having rights superior to those of the men in such things as land transfers, negotiating terms of alliance, the holding of the wealth of the tribe, and important legislative and judicial matters. The typical North American pioneer home is still remembered in most communities. In periods of economic insecurity we read almost with envy of the bounteous provision of a well managed home, the work being largely that of the mother of the family. (See text, p. 75.) The Mormon pioneers were exceptional in establishing admirable home conditions under trying circumstances, and the women were examples of frugality and social accomplishment. "Spinning wheels and rope bottomed chairs made of willow and buckskin graced the rooms, and wellmade rag carpets covered the floor of the living room. In many of the homes were musical instruments. "Teach home was a center of hospitality. Strangers along the highways were never refused meat and bread. The people shared with one another, and the 'parties' and games of those bygone days made everybody happy. Their friendship for one another grew with the years. It LESSON DEPARTMENT was a common saying among travelers: 'Where the bishop lives, there we will receive a hearty welcome.' If one settler lost his crop, the others shelped him through the winter. If a man was unable to work, 'the neighbors turned out to assist him'." Young, "The Founding of Utah." In spite of the difficult conditions under which people lived, such as their lack of convenient appliances with which to work, and of the economic difficulties in obtaining working materials, the pioneer home possessed, as a rule, the essentials for efficient social living. To it, the children and their friends turned for joy and amusement. For its upbuilding and sustenance they gave of their time and efforts. It was there that they received their social, civic, and spiritual ideals of life. By working with their fathers and mothers, and by enjoying common amusements, the children unconsciously absorbed those elements of industrial and social culture which are essential to national security and individual well being. The modern family stands out in marked contrast to that of all previous ages. Ease, comfort, and release from many former difficulties are its characteristics. The technical processes of housekeeping have been reduced by automatic and electrically operated equipment. The hard labor of the home is often removed entirely, or performed by specialists from the outside. Central heating plants, thermostatically controlled; automatic air conditioning to maintain a comfortable temperature in both winter and summer, electric refrigeration; and the world's greatest music and lectures 589 by the mere touch of a button, are just a few of the miracles which the modern home expects. While all the changes that have come into the modern home have brought ease, comfort and joy to the family, like all good things in life, each has its price. As was pointed out in Lesson II the domination of the machine has deprived the home of its former socializing opportunities. More and more the duties and responsibilities of parents for the education, training, religious teaching, and even supervision of physical development, is being turned over to other agencies. The culture of the coming generation is too-often the culture of outside socializing influences instead of the culture of the home. The challenge to parents is how to enjoy all the modern conveniences of our age and still maintain that spirit of the home, and those family ideals and cultures which will make of the family the basic institution of society, and thus build a still greater nation and spirituality. "Real joy comes not from ease, not from riches, not from the applause of men, but from having done things that are worthwhile." Wilford T. Grenfell. Activities Read Proverbs 31:10-31. Compare the ideals there set forth for a wife and mother in a home with the accomplishments of the pioneer women of North America and then with the accomplishments in homes of today. Does the comparison reveal any social obligation on the part of parents of today? If so, what? 

 

 Mission Lessons HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36 LESSON V. FOODS GREAT French surgeon and scientist by the name of. Doctor Lucas Chamtioneera, went to the Balkan countries some years ago, and made a study of the Roumanian people in their habits. He noted that in the rural districts they were pretty strictly vegetarian, while in the cities they had a mixed diet. He discovered that the rural Roumanian people where they were strictly vegetarian had one case of appendicitis to every two thousand two hundred of the rank and file, while in the cities where there was a mixed diet with meat added, there was one case to every two hundred and twenty. In other words there was ten times as much appendicitis with the meat eaters as there was with the vegetarians. This same great author says the same thing is true of the Arabs and the Japanese. The meat eating Arab has appendicitis, while the vegetarian Arab escapes. It seems to be a general rule that the eating of meat is one of the prominent causes of this dreaded disease. Now nature indicates that we need some of that meat food to make up the waste of protein in the body. But if we take too much of it we predispose ourselves to appendicitis, and other diseases such as high blood pressure, chronic kidney inflamma: tion, etc. We answer in the language of the Word of Wisdom, eat it sparingly, and especially in diminished quantities in the warm summer months. People who live entirely on vegetable foods develop anemia and lower their vitality accordingly. We should learn to be wise in all things. To replace the body wastes we need a mixed diet consisting of starches, fats and protein. If we leave any one of these out entirely, we throw our nutrition out of balance, just as we would by overindulgence i in any one of them. Sugar is a necessary part of our diet. It is so nearly akin to starch that a very little chemical change converts the one into the other. Sugar is the gasoline to the engine. As the automobile has a gasoline tank to hold the overplus of fuel and deal it out gradually as the carburetor consumes it, so we have a storage tank in the liver which takes up the starch and converts it into glycogen, a form of sugar that can be held in reserve and doled out as the body needs to consume it. Now this sugar cannot be used by the body until it is acted upon by insulin, a normal product of the pancreas. If we take too much sugar the pancreas is overworked and gives up its task completely and for good. This condition of failure of the pancreas to produce insulin is known as diabetes. The sugar which cannot be utilized because of the failure of insulin is thrown off by the kidneys. The individual so afflicted gradually loses weight and strength, and drinks quantities of water, there is great over-activity of the kidneys, and much discomfort from that cause. Nearly all the sugar, which is the real force producing part of the food, is thus thrown to the waste, the gradual decline ends finally in death. Differing from most every other disease diabetes is a much more serious disease in young than in old people. A Canadian doctor named Banting learned how to extract the LESSON DEPARTMENT insulin from the pancreas of the sheep. This can be used with a hypodermic syringe, and it offsets much of the disability of the diabetic, and may prolong life to the ordinary expectancy. In the time of the American Civil War the per capita consumption of sugar was nine pounds per year, but at the present time in America it is over one hundred pounds per year, and diabetes has increased proportionately, until we have more than a million diabetics at the present time. The confectioners have put up sugar in such enticing forms in their fine chocolates and creams that children and young people particularly are tempted to eat altogether too much of it, and they are paying the price of their pleasure in later years by developing diabetes. We need some sugar of course in our diet, but we should carefully avoid over-indulgence in it. It occurs 'in such variable forms that it is hard to indicate just how much one should eat, and each will have to be his own judge, keeping in mind always moderation. Children should be restrained from eating large quantities of the various sweets and candies sold by the confectioners. A great London surgeon, by the name of Sir Frederic Treeves, used to teach that the people who develop appendicitis almost invariably have the habit of swallowing their food whole without proper mastication. Not only appendicitis, but other digestive disturbances are caused by this indiscretion. Digestion is a chemical process, the purpose of which is to so reduce our food that it can be absorbed and assimilated. Common sense should teach us that the food should be ground fine in our mouth if we expect the proper chemical changes to occur in it in the stomach and intestine. 591 We should take a lesson from nature. The ox swallows his food whole at first, but nature has given him three stomachs instead of one. After he has filled the bunker with enough grass hastily eaten he goes and lies down under the shade of a tree and brings it back into his mouth and grinds and grinds it to fine consistency, and then swallows it again, when it goes into another stomach ready to receive and digest it. This we call chewing the cud. Now we ought to have as much sense as oxen, hadn't we? Instead of trying to atone for our diatetic sins by taking the pepsin of the ox's stomach for medicine, we ought to take hold of the other end of the problem, and learn to grind our own food to the proper consistency. We cannot chew the cud, but we can chew our food until it is reduced to the degree of fineness that will make digestion easy. We should avoid also over-eating, because an excess of food is not only unnecessary, but it is very harmful to the body. Questions What relation has meat eating to the development of appendicitis? What are the three kinds of food we need to make good the wastes of the body?" What happens if we discard meat entirely and live on vegetable food only? What does the Word of Wisdom say about meat eating? What is the objection of ?ating too much sugar? Describe the disease diabetes. Show how it has increased in America, and state why. What has science done to help the diabetic? Why should we chew the food well before swallowing it? Why should we avoid over-eating?