Magazine PROFILES IN VALOR Within all life a spark of courage throbs which bids fight back, fight on, fight through. A silvered salmon flails its way upstream against the lash of waterfall the surge of river flow A lone tree spires itself against the sky from the no-soil wilderness of rock in. Brave defiance to the wind and rain. Foot-crumpled blades of grass spring back, resilient, and a single, fragile flower, rooted in faith, proves it can cleave its way through granite to the sun. —Kathryn Kay The Cover: Snow and Autumn Leaves—Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News "a Frontispiece: § Cypress on the California Coast Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: jf Mary Scopes 801 From Near and Far It was with great interest that I read in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine

about the family of Elder Marion Rogers of Snowflake, Arizona, written by one of his

daughters (Mayola R. Miltenberger). In 1922, Elder Rogers baptized me in Sheffield,

England. I was then a member of a small branch in Lincolnshire. Except for a few years

during the war I have been active in the Church ever since. At present I am cultural

refinement class leader in the Sunderland Ward, Sunderland Stake.

M^r'^ /\. Akenhead, Sunderland, Durham, England

I must thank you very much for the small poem "Stay" in the August issue of the Magazine

(by Leora Larsen). It provided me with exactly the right thought to send to my

sister. We have been parted for a little over a year. All of the poetry in the Magazine is

special to me because, before my marriage, mother and I read the poetry together. I

feel that we still share the poems, even though we are not together.

Nancy Bowman, Barbers Point, Hawaii

I wish to thank a very dear friend, Eva Rydalch, for giving me so much enjoyment as I

find in The Relief Society Magazine. I have enjoyed the serial "Welcome the Task" (by

Michele Bartmess). I enjoy all of the continued stories and the recipes. I have looked

in many cookbooks to find a recipe for date pudding— and there it was in the August

Magazine (by Betty Mazzacano). My mother made date pudding when I was a child.

We did not always have the nuts to put in the pudding, but we used substitutes— and

the pudding was a luxury. Evelin Pardun, Riverbank, California

How thrilled I was to read the story "Missionaries to Dinner" (by Joan Nelson Ahlman)

in the July Magazine. It was like a page from my own diary. We love the elders and try

to make them welcome in our land. We have had much joy from inviting them to our

home. A convert of two years only, I find the Magazine invaluable, and treasure it so

much that I have given subscriptions to my friends. Never have I read a Magazine

with more universal appeal. Margaret Park, East Kilbride, Scotland

I think the cover picture on the August Magazine is outstanding (Bernkastelkues on

the Mosel River, Germany). I have admired all the lovely color prints, but this one is

special. The Magazine has brought much joy and insight into my life.

Mary K. Hoover, Junction City, Kansas

I especially enjoyed the poem "Roadside Moment— Summer" by Katherine F. Larsen, in

the August issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Larsen certainly captures the beauty of a

momentary image. Thanks for all the lovely poetry printed in the Magazine.

B. Barnes Richardson, Milwaukie, Oregon

I read the article "South Africa— Land of Gold and Green," by Caroline Eyring Miner, in

the June issue of the Magazine. The article and pictures are beautiful, as are all the

other articles and the lessons published in the Magazine. I love it.

Cathy Budd, Sunderland, Surrey, England

I have read the three prize-winning stories in the April issue of the Magazine and loved

them all. I was happy to see a pioneer romance for a winner ("A Horse and Buggy

Romance" by Iris W. Schow). Miss Schow did a lovely job in handling her subject. I

appreciated the second-prize story ("Mama and the Teddy Bear" by Lael J. Littke)

for any story by Mrs. Littke has to be good. She delights me. But I want to rave a

little about the third-prize story (The "Silver Pitcher" by Grace M. Pratt). It seems to

me she used a masterful stroke, and there are understanding and depth in her story.

I hope to meet all three of these writers again and again in the pages of the

Magazine. Alice Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out) ===
Georgine Shiner Snow Provo, Utah Mrs. Sarah Edna Palmer H. Teeples Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Burbidge Turnbow Kamas, Utah November 1969 NEW BOOKCLUB I BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB featuring WITH NO MINIMUM PURCHASE FREE BOOKLET "AS A MAN THINKETH" 1. SPECIAL ON VOL. V OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Regular $3.25 Special $2.60 aa a) Th ati HY Our OF THE DEST ROOKS =} I) imme Bil OUTOR THE BEST BROOKS o_o a NOP TUMNRRE HOOKS I \1\ _coerrepeanenennrscodl 2. Vols. 1-3 ea. $1.95 4. Art of Home 6. Jesus the Christ — (Vol. 4 Out of Print) Making — Hoole $4.95 James Talmage $3.50 3. You & Your Child's 5. I Thee Wed — 7. Doc. & Cov. World — Landeau $3.95 Rex Sidmore $2.95 Commentary $4.95 BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB -. 626 "'H'' Street Salt-Lake City, Utah 84103 880 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of PROPHECIES AND PROPHETIC PROMISES FROM THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Total Cost $ I enclose check [-] money order (] Charge established account [7] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Nov. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land. Yy, "in your meals! Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FRESH APPLE PIE TIME! Slit top crust to allow steam to escape. Bake in hot (450°) oven for 15 minutes; decrease heat to 4 Chg Eaaeiiind 2 tablespoons Minute = 495° and continue baking another 30 minutes or 4 pone ale P Pe _ until nicely browned. For final 10 minutes of bakVelteuspeon'Cinmamen — ing time, sprinkle pie generously with granulated - U and I Sugar. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream METHOD or slice of cheese for cheese lovers. Peel, core and slice apples. Mix with U and I Note: If you have a soggy crust problem, try coatSugar, cinnamon and tapioca and let mixture ing the bottom crust with egg white before filling. Stand while preparing crust. Prepare crust for 9" Merely drop the white of an egg onto crust, tip two-crust pie. Fill bottom crust with fruit mixture; pan until entire crust is coated, and pour off exdot with 2 tablespoons butter. Cover with top shell. Cess. Oven heat will seal bottom crust in first minFlute edges to seal in juice and either prick or utes of hot baking so juice cannot penetrate. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the Ul economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. wes, s > — — 7 a Soia 5 ed: * Ke Met - ego, a "ee yy" Yu cc KO aR <=" >

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from T3 size-cap overflow) ===
the European Missions to the Church Welfare Committee graphically described the urgent need of the people of Europe for soap. In the letter a strong appeal was made for help. The Welfare Program had but one soap plant which could in no measure meet the request. Soap at the commercial markets was rationed and only available through the use of coupons issued by the Government to individuals. Being notified of the need through the General Presidency, with the approval of the First Presidency, compassion touched the hearts of Relief Society sisters who rallied to the call for help. In ninety selected stakes of the Church in Zion, the sisters drew from their home supplies precious bars of soap. (Only bar soap could be shipped abroad.) Within a period of one week the local Relief Societies had been notified of the need, the soap was collected, and over 50,000 bars were on their way to Europe—an almost unbelievable response to share with those about whom they cared. Individual women were generous to be sure, but how helpless each would have been without the power of the Society to notify of need, to inspire, to organize, and direct the activity. At the same period, more than a carload of beautiful new quilts, on hand in the local Relief Societies, was donated to the suffering people of Europe. These, too, were collected and shipped in a period of a little over one week. In a report I made to the National 'Council of Women in New York City at that time on war services of Relief Society, I mentioned the number of quilts that Relief Society had sent to Europe. Following my report, the President of the Free Czechoslovakian Women, an escapee to United States from that invaded country and a former Deputy-Mayor of Prague, rose and said, (and I quote from my notes): "Mrs. Spafford's report is overly modest and has dealt only with figures." Then If It's Right We Can Do It she explained that as DeputyMayor she had been assigned by her government to oversee the distribution of commodities from the United States. The quilts were not to be reserved exclusively for the Mormons. She concluded by saying, (again I quote from my notes): '""They [the quilts] were new and beautiful. They not only warmed cold bodies, but brought sunshine to wintered _ spirits. They were gifts of understanding love." There is one other story I wish to tell. A sister, president of a small branch Relief Society of Mexican sisters in Salt Lake City, sat in this historic Tabernacle and heard a_ plan _ proposed whereby the sisters were to raise one-half million dollars for a Relief Society headquarters building. Each local Society was to be responsible for seeing that every one of its members was represented by a $5 contribution. That dutiful Mexican president had great feelings of trepidation because of the magnitude of the undertaking. But strong in testimony her response came: "I don't know how we can do it. My sisters are poor. Yet, President McKay is listening. The First Presidency has authorized it. If these Brethren authorize it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it!" And do it, they did. This Mexican Branch was the first to submit its money, soon to be followed by full contributions from the other sisters of Relief Society. More than one-half million dollars was contributed in a oneyear period. The Relief Society Building stands today a monument to the faith and labors of the sisters. 

807 November 1969

 Recorded in the minutes of the General Board is an address given March 17, 1914, in the Assembly Hall by President Joseph F. Smith from which I quote: When rightly wielded, governed and directed, I think the influence of this great organization in the Church is, without doubt, the most cogent and the most powerful of any other single organization of the Church, for this reason, it is not confined to three, nor to twelve, nor to seven nor any other definite small number of people, but it extends to the outermost borders of the Church and in every part of the Church. In every live branch of the Church the Relief Society is found, and it is found there for good.... Its work is good, and its power for uplifting, for comforting, and for sustaining the cause of Zion, I think, is most potent. Where on earth should we look for good, for the spirit of truth, for sincerity, for divine love, for patience and longsuffering and forgiveness and endurance and charity and every other blessed thing, if we do not look for it in the organizations that develop the mothers and the daughters of Zion. What power you possess, my beloved sisters, in the exercise of your duties, in the performance of your callings powers that you may wield among the people of God and among any people among whom you may be permitted to associate. What a mighty, what a great and powerful organization is the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and what responsibilities rest upon them! Not only the responsibility of being capable yourselves of sustaining the spirit of the organization to which you belong and of maintaining its rights, and of performing your duties in it in a temporal way; you have also the responsibility resting upon you to impart... Knowledge, wisdom and understanding... To all others with whom you may come in contact. Today we stand fortified in meeting the requirements of this troubled period of time by the size, the greatness, and the power of 808 7 our organization, and by the worthy and glorious accomplishments " of the past. Also today we have unusually choice women. I have [ met with Relief Society sisters in many parts of the world. I have felt the power of their faith. I have seen striking evidence of their testimonies. I have noted the zeal and dedication with which they work. I have watched, almost in amazement, the quality of their q leadership. I have partaken of the sweetness and humility of their spirits. I have rejoiced in the beauty and refinement of their lives. Three hundred and twenty-five thousand such women, working through the medium of Relief Society under priesthood direction, fortified by the glorious accomplishments of the past are indeed favorably positioned successfully to deal with problems and meet the special needs of today, difficult though they may be. Strength is ours, greater perhaps than any of us comprehend. Today is not an easy, comfortable period of time. More changes and scientific advancements have taken place in the last fifty years than in any comparable period of time in history. Change and scientific advancement call for continuous adjustments in our way of life. These must be made with wisdom and in a way that will preserve the enduring values of life. Relief Society must rise as a power in helping mothers to do this. Relief Society must worthily meet the emergent special hu-— manitarian needs of today as did our Sisters of the past. At the same time, it must be constant in its efforts to strengthen the moral and spiritual values of our homes, so much in jeopardy today. It must train mothers to maintain well-managed, peaceful homes that draw family members to them even against the most appealing and glittering community enticements. It must create in mothers a recognition of the fundamental values of close companionship with their children. It is vital leisurely to spend time with our children. Relief Society must guide mothers in the firm and wise direction of young lives, and in maintaining the God-ordained relationships with husbands. It must strengthen community virtues, as directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, through fortifying the sisters against the dangers of declining moral standards, and the relaxed attitudes toward the importance of sexual purity. It must safeguard mothers against the taint of some of the presentday, so-called religious attitudes, If It's Right We Can Do It through effectively teaching the beauties and truths of the gospel. The task before us is great, but it is not beyond our successful accomplishment. We bear in mind the words of the president of that small Mexican Branch Relief Society, "If the Presiding Brethren approved it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it." The Lord is mindful of his Relief Society. I am sure he loves the sisters of today even as he loved the sisters of Nauvoo and he will bless and make fruitful our efforts. I bear testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the divine birth of Relief Society, and to the inspired guidance that comes to it from God's prophets. I am humbly grateful for my membership in the Church and for my membership in Relief Society. When all else is gone in life, the blessings of this membership will remain for they are eternal. VISITING TEACHERS We are visiting teachers— How grateful we are for the task, We walk in the steps of our Master, What more could a woman ask? We enter the homes of our sisters To bring them a message of cheer, A thought to uplift, bless, and brighten We bring every month of the year. We pray for the gift of discernment That where there is need we will know, And exercise sisterly watchcare As we have been charged here below.