BY FRANCES POWER COBBE.

	The thin, papersoled-boots which leave
the wearer to feel the chill of the pavement
or the damp of the grass wherever she may
walk, must have shortened thousands of
lives in Europe, and even more in America.
Combined with these, we have now the
high heels, which in a short period convert
the foot into a shapeless deformity, no
longer available for purposes of healthful
exercise. An experienced shoemaker in-
formed the writer that, between the results
of tight boots and high heels, he scarcely
knew a lady of fifty who had what he could
call a foot at all—they had mere clubs. And
this is done, all this anguish endured, for
the sake of—beauty!
	Bad as stays, and chig[-]ons, and high heels,
and paint, and low dresses, and all the oth-
er follies of dress are, I am, however, of
opinion that the culminating folly of fash-
ion, the one which has most wide-spread
and durable consequences, is the mode in
which for ages back women have contrived
that their skirts should act as drags and
swaddling-clothes, weighing down their
hips and obstructing the natural motion of
the legs. Two hundred years ago the im-
mortal Perrette, when she wanted to carry
her milk-pail swiftly to market, was obliged
to dress specially for the purpose:	*	*	*
From that time to this the "cotillon simple"
—modest, graceful, and rational—has been
the rare exception, and every kind of flounce
and furbelow, hoops and crinolines, pan-
niers and trains, "tied back" costume, and
"robe collante," has been successively the
bane of women's lives, and the slow de-
stroyer of their activity.
	It has been often remarked that the saga-
city of Romish seminarists is exhibited by
their practice of compelling boys destined
for the priesthood to flounder along the
streets in their long gowns, and never per-
mitting them to cast them aside or play in
the close fitting clothes wherein English
lads enjoy their cricket and foot-ball. The
obstruction to free action, though perhaps
slight in itself, yet constantly maintained,
gradually tames down the wildest spirits to
the level of ecclesiastical decorum. But the
lengthiest of "soutanes" is a joke com-
pared to the multitudinous petticoats which
up to the last year or two, every lady was
compelled to wear, swathing and flowing
about her ankles as if she were walking
through the sea. Nor is the fashion of
these latter days much better, when the
scantier dress is "tied back"—as I am in-
formed—with an elastic band, much on the
principle that a horse is "hobbled" in the
field; and to this a tail a yard long is added,
which must either be left to draggle in the
mud or must occupy an arm exclusively to
hold it up. In youth these skirts are bad
enough, as exercising a constant check on
free and healthful movement; but the mo-
ment that the elastic steps begin to give
place to the lassitude of middle life, the
case is desperate. There is no longer en-
ergy to overcome the impediments created
by the ridiculous "spancels," and the poor
donkey of a woman hobbles daily round a
shorter and shorter course, till at forty or
fifty she tells her friends with a sigh that 
she finds (she cannot imagine why) that she
cannot walk at all!
	Does decency require such a sacrifice as
this? Does the utmost strain of feminine
modesty ask for it? If it were so, I for one,
should leave the matter with a sigh, as not 
to be remedied. But who in his senses


dreams that such is the case? Who, in the
age of "robes collantes" and "decollettee"
dresses, can pretend that a reasonably full,
simply-cut silk or cloth skirt, reaching to
the ankles and no longer, would not fulfill
immeasurably better than any fashion we
have seen for many a day the requirements
of true womanly delicacy? It is for fash-
ion, not decency, that the activity of wo-
men is thus crushed, their health ruined,
and (through them) the health of their
children. I hold it to be an indubitable
fact that if twenty years ago a ratioual and
modest style of dress had been adopted by
Englishwomen and encouraged by Eng-
lishmen, instead of being sneered down by
fops and fools, the health not only of wo-
men, but the sons of women, i. e., of the
entire nation, would now be on altogether a
different plane from what we find it.


