EDITOR EXPONENT:

	That you should not think that we, the
Young Ladies M. I. A. of Ephraim are
not awake to our calling, having never
heard from us through your valuable paper,
I shall therefore endeavor to give you a
brief account of our proceedings, during the
time since we were reorganized, which is a
little over a year since. About the time
the work on the Manti Temple was com-
menced, we instituted a monthly ten-cent
donation towards that Temple, being anx-
ious to aid in so great a work, which is a
privilege that we enjoy as a people, for
which we should ever be thankful, and do
all we can to forward its progress in order
that we may be worthy of the blessings
that will be given therein. By putting our
ten cents together, it has brought us, up to
the present, $28.80. We have also donated
ten dollars for the relief of our destitute
brethren and sisters in Wales, who are suf-
fering for the want of daily bread, trying to
appreciate how abundantly we are blessed
with the necessaries and comforts of life.
	The last time our dear departed Presi-
dent visited us in Sanpete, he counseled
us to make our own hats, and do all we
could towards being self-sustaining; this
we do as far as we can. Nearly all the
members of our association make their own
hats; we also make gentleman's straw hats
and try to supply the Co-op at this place
with them. A couple of our girls are fur-
nishing us with beautiful artificial flowers,
so when we raise our own silk, we shall be
able to produce as neat a hat as any of us
could wish to wear, which will indeed be
the workmanship of our own hands.
	We hold our meetings weekly which are
always well attended, and many good in-
structions are given from time to time; in
fact, we think that our meetings are better
than any others; for every word that falls
from the lips of a young girl, while speak-
ing of the goodness of God, seems to come
from the bottom of the heart, and, as it
were, takes root in the hearts of the hear-
ers.
	We should try to appreciate these im-
provement associations for they are schools
in which we are preparing ourselves to fol
low in the footsteps of our mothers, when
they shall have passed behind the vail, for
we know that they cannot always be with
us, to bear the burden of the day, and this
kingdom will still roll on; consequently,
when fathers and mothers have passed
away, their work must necessarily fall upon
the shoulders of their children.
	The EXPONENT is always welcome to our
meetings. Wishing you continued success,
		I am yours, etc.,
				KATE MADSEN, Secretary.

