			BY HANNAH T. KING..

	How often amid the trials of daily life,
the body becomes weary and worn, and the
spirit in its strong sympathy, partakes of
the same, loses its buoyancy and ceases for
a time to be a helpmeet unto it; circumstan-
ces often engender that entire prostration;
we are poor, that is in the current coin of
the realm, and we are crippled even in our
best efforts and affections; our spirit com-
plains, we think God has forgotten us, the
mind grows gloomy and despondent, our
path seems hedged up—we cannot make an
opening. We know bread eaten by labor is
sweet, and only that bread do we desire;
but where is the field? where the vineyard?
every place is full; is the earth becoming
over populated? or does machinery swallow
up the labor of the Saints? The earth is
full of riches and many are reveling in
them. David, even in his days was puz-
zled, and could not solve the problem, and
Scripture expressly says "the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the strong,

[Column 2]
nor riches to men of wisdom." Must
we then fall back on destiny? yes, sure-
ly there is much in pre-destination, we
cannot shut our eyes to the fact, though it
has a bound beyond which we will not own
it can, may, or shall pass. Wealth, mighty
lever as it is, cannot give happiness, or
health, or heart or brain; it is merely an
auxiliary, and a powerful one too, and great
is the responsibility of the possessor. We
may be rich in all things but "money,"
which Scripture calls "filthy lucre," to that,
I say nothing, lest we clash in our opinion;
it is the current that bears the world along,
and only when linked with vice, can it be
really called so. But let us look at our cir-
cumstances, boldly, daringly, for it requires
an indomitable courage at times to look
them in the face unflinchingly, unmurmur-
ingly, and see it there are not some frag-
ments left, out of which we can organize
a shadow of the heaven it is the right of
all to possess. If the sun of our domestic
system is under so heavy a cloud, that we
cannot see clear enough, we will light a
lamp, and if we have no lamp, then a can-
dle, and if we have not a candle then a
"farthing rush-light," surely we can find
that, and by its little light we will peer in-
to the darkness of the present hour. Now
we will not recall what we do not now pos-
sess, but review the blessings wo actually
do possess "pro tem;" all are welcome to
our rushlight and can make their own ex-
amination, at the same time with us. Has
nature given us a sound mind in a sound
body? If so what untold wealth is ours in
this one possession; no money can buy it,
no position bequeath it; God and our pro-
genitors have bestowed it upon us. Tell
me not that a pale white face is pretty and
lady-like; away with such vitiated nonsense.
A face I know well rises up before my mind,
where the rose and the lily unite, but the
rose holds her place with queenly su-
premacy. I never look upon that face but
its bloom seems to invigorate me, and I
gather as much of it as I can with my eyes,
and my gaze is not rudeness, but love. Yes,
health is beauty in man or woman, "good my
Lord;" and this health enables us in a thou-
sand ways to make our heaven; enables us
to work—work till we clear away the bram-
bles and thorns and noxious weeds that ob-
struct our path; though by the bye this
very health is imperative in its demands
and is loud in her calls for the Lever move-
ment. But of itself it enables us to plant
and sow, and reap every day, yes every
night, gather in a harvest of some good
things worth preserving in our grand store-
house of heart and brain; enables us to
make order prominent wherever we move;
to prepare bread and all food so well, that
even the sickly may be tempted to eat, and
the appetite is encouraged. Cooking food
deliciously should be placed with the fine
arts, for it is a talent that is not thrown
broadcast over the earth; it has to be ac-
quired by long and close study, and then it
never becomes a science without a natural
tact and talent in that branch.  Woman's
life is an unwritten philosophy, and this
art is certainly among the unwritten.
	Health enables us to walk,—yes, away
with the carriages except for invalids, or

[Column 3]
people over eighty; riding continually in
carriages is destructive to health and vigor,
both mentally and physically; let us do our
own errands, and then we shall have an ob-
ject, for an object is the inspiration which
we need. The blessing of friends must
never be forgotten; they help to make our
sunshine, and our happy hours, we love
them and desire their association in the
grand eternities where we shall get better
acquainted than in this ephemeral exist-
ence, for how little we know of the inner
life of each other in our present associa-
tions, even the nearest. We have little
time to elaborate; life is a rush, railroad
pace, "coupled [-]ngines." Nature, beauti-
ful nature! is an open book that blesses us
every day, and is ever around us; I may
have no garden, but my neighbor's is love-
ly with beautiful flowers and shrubs, and
fruit; it is as much mine as his, as far as
the eye can make it so; I can gaze upon it
in perfect freedom and inhale its perfume
which is the voice of the flowers to us; do
not they awaken a language no words can
tell, that we are now acquainted with?
Yes, we can even talk to them and they
respond by their sweet perfume, thrilling
us with gratitude and devotion, for they
breathe of heaven and heavenly beings.
All this is prepared for us and we can in-
hale and enjoy and "none to molest and
make afraid." Then comes Night, light-
ing up our world with all its glory, the
lovely moon, and the breathing, palpitating
stars; well might the sublime poet say, "By
night an athist half believes a God." Then
the glorious Sun, the Lord of Creation,
when he rises in his splendor, and embrac-
es the earth with his life-giving beams; she
responds to the warmth of his love, and
puts on her beautiful robe as though
fresh from the hands of her Maker. Yes
the sun!

	Had I been born in heathen lands,
	Unknowing God and His commands,
	I surely should have bent the knee
	In dark idolatry to thee.

	Nature! beautiful nature, child of
God, we love thee, thou art the
"sandalphon" of our earthly orbit, filling
our souls with happiness that no language
can make palpable. Thanks to the little
"rushlight" it has ignited the "candle of
the Lord" which burns in every bosom—
though sometimes but dimly. The dark
cloud is lifted and the summits of hope
again appear; "there is a silver lining to
every cloud;" and we ought to be alchymist
sufficient to know how to extract the sweet
as well as the bitter, that the medicine of
life may also be its elixir.
	S. L. City, May 18, 1878.


IT is reported that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.
	THE ADVENT of Women in political af-
fairs dates far back of our time. In the
reign of Henry III, four women had seats
in the British Parliament. In the seventh
century, when the national assembly con-
voked by the King of Kent enacted a new
code of laws, the decrees were signed by
the Queen, abbesses, and ladies of quality.


