THE SISTERS' VISIT NORTH.

	Friday. May 3d, Miss E. R. Snow and I
left Ogden on the U. N. R. R. to visit the
settlements in Malad Valley; we had a
pleasant trip to Hampton's in company
with Apostles Wilford Woodruff and
Erastus Snow, and wife. Bishop O. C.
Haskins and Brother Mansfield met us with
a comfortable conveyance to take us to
Portage, where we arrived in safety early
in the evening.
	Saturday, May 4th, we attended three
meetings, the brethren as well as the sis-
ters being present; a good spirit prevailed,
and we were blessed and encouraged by
the kind words of the Bishop and his
Counselors. Bishop G. Dunford met us
here, and with Bishop Hoskins accompa-
nied us to Samaria, Sunday, 5th, where we
again attended three meetings, and Sister
Snow assisted Bishop Dunford in re-organ-
izing the Relief Society.
	Monday, 6th, we reached Malad in com-
pany with Brothers Dunford, Hoskins and
Mansfield, attended three meetings of breth-
ren and sisters, and all were delighted at
Sister Snow's presence, and the kind coun-
sel and encouragement she gave will be
long remembered by them. Several came
twenty-two miles to attend meeting, and
all expressed their gratitude to God, our

[Column 2]

Father, for the blessings they enjoyed. Ma-
lad is a beautiful valley, thousands of
acres of good land waiting for our poor
brethren who are in want of homes to come
and enjoy.
	Tuesday, 7th, Sister Snow held a recep-
tion for two hours, and also visited the
sick, then returned to Samaria; met with
the Y. L. M. I. A. at two o'clock; then pro-
ceeded to Portage, where we were kindly
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family.
Held meeting in the evening, and were
greatly blessed.
	Wednesday, 8th, we left our kind friends
in Portage, crossed the divide, and visited
Newton; Bishop Littlewood and his family
were very pleased at our unexpected visit.
We met with the sisters afternoon and eve-
ning; many of the brethren here also hon-
ored us with their presence.
	Thursday, 9th, visited Clarkston, met
with the sisters; Bishop Jardine and his
counselors attended with many other breth-
ren. We had an excellent meeting. Af-
ter dinner left for Weston, where we met
with the sisters afternoon and evening.
Many of the brethren were present and ex-
pressed their regret at their Bishop's ab-
sence.
	Friday, 10th, accompanied by Sister
Clark, at whose house we were entertained
in Weston, and Bro. Gassman, we reached
Franklin, and met with the sisters at three
o'clock; Bishop Lafayette Hatch and his
counselors attended with us, and all ex-
pressed their gratitude for the blessings
they received. In the evening we met
with the M. I. A. of both sexes, young
men and women, and had a good time.
Sister Snow addressed the young and ad-
vised them to improve every opportunity
in doing good, and to cultivate themselves
that they might become truly great.
	Saturday, 11th, we reached Richmond,
and met with the sisters in the afternoon,
and held joint meeting of the young ladies
and gentlemen in the evening.
	Sunday, 12th, we met with the sisters in
Smithfield in the morning, dined with
about forty brethren and sisters, Bishop S.
Roskelly and his counsel being of the num-
ber. Afternoon, accompanied by Bishop
Roskelly and others, we visited Hyde Park,
and had a good time with the Saints; all
attended meeting, and were thankful to
have Sister Snow visit them. I think her
instructions will long be remembered by
the Saints in every settlement; all seemed
to enjoy their privileges as Saints, and
were thankful for every blessing. As we
traveled we thanked God, our Father, for
all His mercies; we felt that He was in-
deed blessing His people. The fields looked
beautiful in their robe of green, and the
trees were covered with blossoms; every
where there were prospects of a bounteous
harvest.
	After visiting Brother and Sister McCal-
lister, we left Logan Monday, 13th, and
reached Brigham City by train. That
evening we visited the sick; next
morning we attended the meeting of the
sisters for their organization in a Stake ca-
pacity. Then we visited several Co-oper-
ative Institutions, and were delighted with
the energy and enterprise of the brethren
and sisters of Brigham City; saw the new
Woolen and Silk Factory now nearly com-
pleted, and which will soon be in operation.
Here the artisan and mechanic will not
have to cry for work in vain, neither will
their families have to cry for bread. I felt
that it was truly the hive of Deseret, and
its people are the working bees; the bless-

[Column 3]

ings of God will surely be with such a peo-
ple.
	Tuesday evening, 14th, we reached Og-
den, and were soon snugly ensconced for
the evening in Sister J. Richards's hospita-
ble mansion; we were cheered and blessed
with her and her family.
	Wednesday, 15th, in company with Sis-
ters Richards, Brown, Belknap, Odell and
others, we visited Ogden Vailey, and we
greatly enjoyed our trip through the canon,
viewing the grand scenery, awful in its
grandeur. We had an excellent meeting
with the people, for there were many pres-
ent.
	Thursday, 16th, with the above named
sisters, also Sisters West, Herrick and Fred-
sham, we visited Marriotsville, and en-
joyed our meeting with the brethren and
sisters of that settlement. We returned
to Salt Lake City the same evening, and
were thankful to our Heavenly Father for
all His blessings, and for our safety, and
we feel to thank our brethren and sisters in
every settlement for their kind care over
us, and for kindly conveying us from place
to place. We shall not forget our visit nor
those we visited.	E. DAVIS.


THERE is a pretty sharp discussion going
on respecting the admission of ladies to the
meetings of the British Medical Associa-
tion. Dr. Wilson Fox has resigned his
membership because the committee of the
council of the association have informed
him that they have no power to prevent
the attendance of ladies who are members
of the association. Professor Lister, the
eminent surgeon who came from Edin-
burgh to take the late Sir William Fergus-
son's place at King's College Hospital,
writes to the "British Medical Journal"
that he shall follow Dr. Fox's example un-
less this matter is set right. It appears
that early in 1873 Mrs. Garrett Anderson,
M. D., of Paris, and Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., of
Zurich, were elected members of the asso-
ciation by the committee of the council.
Attention was called to this fact at the Ed-
inburgh meeting of the association, and it
was determined that papers should be sent
to all the members of the association asking
them to say yes or no as to whether they
wished ladies to be present. 4,161 answers
were received, of which 3,072 were noes.
Since then no ladies have been elected.
But it is easier to elect than to unelect, and
the question is what is now to be done?
The doctors, who are perfectly ready to at-
tend ladies as patients, however delicate
may be the nature of their complaints, are
such prudes that they say that they cannot
possibly discuss these complaints in the
presence of two ladies brought up to the
medical profession. They are willing to
act as accoucheurs and take lumping fees,
but it would make them blush to discuss
obstetrics before lady obstetricians, and,
therefore, Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Hoggan
are to have their subscriptions returned if 
the Association would not lose Dr. Fox and
Professor Lister. When I read such stuff
as this I say, with old Mr. Henley, that I
am ready to lie on my back and shout
"Fudge!" It is even worse than that, it is
pure, unadulterated, professional selfish-
ness.—Selected.


ANOTHER new novel from the pen of
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has just been
published, "Poganuc People." It is pro-
nounced by critics and reviewers to be one
of her brightest and best stories of New
England life.


