PERSECUTION AND TESTIMONY.

	After reading the book entitled the "Wo-
men of Mormondom," many persons have
asked me if it was possible that the story of
Brother Joseph Young and Sister Amanda
Smith, concerning the Haun's Mill Massacre
could be true; it seems so bad that American
citizens would be guilty of so horrible a deed.
I will take the liberty of answering through
the columns of the EXPONENT, all who may
be surprised at such a terrible tragedy being
committed by a Christian community. It is
all too true, and they have only told a part. I
was only a little girl at the time, but many
things are plain to my memory; my own fath-
er, Levi M. Myrick and my brother Charles
were among the slain. My little brother lived
four weeks wanting two days after he was shot.
And after we got into a house, (for we were
traveling every day for two weeks) the mob
numbering from twenty five to forty would
surround the house and come in and hunt for
arms, tearing up the floor and searching in
every place they thought any could be secret-
ed, making any wicked threats that seemed to
enter their heads. They would wave their
great knives over Sister Smith and my mother
(Philindia Myrick) and tell them to leave the
State in four and twenty or forty-eight hours;
and some boasted to mother that two days af-
ter the bodies were put into the well they cut
father's legs off and when they cut them off
he called for liquor. Father never drank liq-
uor in his life, but they told mother this to
hurt her worse if they could. Father was a
tall man and it so happened that he was put in-
to the well head first leaving half of his legs in
sight. How long the well was left uncovered
I don't know, we left the next night after the
bodies were thrown in; the mob soon returned,
but the few brethren who were left alive, Bro.
Joseph Young being among the number, did
all in their power to bury the dead, and com-
fort the wounded. After the mob were done
with the butchery, they set to plundering and
took nearly everything we had. They took a
pocket-book of father's and cut it open and
took seven hundred dollars out of it and threw
the book away. I have the old book now.
Mother being of very delicate constitution,
the trouble and exposure brought on a linger-
ing disease from which she suffered for thir-
teen years. She died in 1852, while crossing 
the plains.
	FANNY KOFFORD.
Spring City, May 19, 1878.


