MAN'S WIT.

	A long time ago, when giants were plenty
in Ireland, there lived on the borders of
the county Armagh one Barney M'Connell,
who lawfully came under the above appel-
lation, being seven feet high, and made in
proportion. His prowess was well known,
and acknowledged for many a mile round;
but there was one thing that grieved Bar-
ney above a little, namely, that he could
get nobody to stand before him in his own
country. Now report spoke of a certain
giant in Scotland who was laboring under
the like grief, and for precisely the same
cause; therefore, Barney, after consulting
his friends on the subject, sent a challenge
to the Scotch giant, to "come over to Ire-
land and get the concait taken out of him-
self." After the due time the bearer of the
challenge returned with word that it had
been accepted, and further stated that he
was advised to inform Barney that he had
better make his will, get his coffin made,
etc., as he that he was about to encounter,
never left his work half done. "Did you
see him?" asked Barney.	"Faith an' I
did," said the messenger. "What is he
like?" interrogated the giant. "Faith Bar-
ney, avic, he's like anything at all but a
mortal being."	How big is he?" asked
Barney, looking anything but pleased at
the description of his rivial. "How big is
he, did you say? Faith he's as big as the
ould tower forninst the door, an' a head and
shoulders on him like Father M'Gurney's
bull, an' by all accounts he'll ait you alive."
Barney began to feel rather uncomfortable
at the prospect before him, and straightway
went to consult his wife, as to what should
be done in the event of his rival proving to
be such as his messenger had represented.
While they were thus engaged, one of the
children came running in and exclaim-
ed, "Daddy, come to the door, and see the
great big man that's coming up the hill!"
Barney peeped through the chinks of the
door, and to his great terror saw the mon-
ster.
	One look was enough to satisfy him that
his messenger had not exaggerated his ac-
count of him, and turning to his wife, he
said, "Shela, jewell, I'm ett alive, for sar-
tin! Here comes the Scotch baist to drum
your poor Barney." When Shela heard of
the approach of the coming foe, and saw
her lord's utter inability to wage war with
one so far superior in strength and size, she
concluded that it was only by some piece of
woman's wit that her husband could escape
from the affair without dishonor, and ac-
cordingly, she gently lifted the child out of
the cradle, and depositing it on the bed in
the inner room, made the father get in its
place, and covering him up with a quilt,
gently seated herself and resumed her
work. After a few moments, in walked the
cause of all the disturbance, and demanded
an interview with the giant. Shela, after
motioning with her hand for him to keep

[Column 2]

quiet; walked gently across the floor to
where he stood, and in an undertone told
him Barney had gone out to the woods.
The giant informed her that he intended
awaiting his return. "Very well," said
Shela, "only don't make a word of noise for
the life that's in you; for there's nothing
makes him more furious than to hear the
child crying when he comes home." By
this time the giant had seated himself on a
bench, and was quietly surveying the
apartment; but when his eye rested on the
cradle, with a look of unutterable astonish-
ment, he asked what was in it? "In it!"
cried Shela, "don't you see its the child
that's in it; an' Heaven help you if you
wake him; the craythur didn't get a wink
of sleep last night with the two back teeth
he's cutting." The giant, with a look of
terror and astonishment, asked what size
the father was. "Faith, and I can't tel
you," said Shela, "'cause I never measured
him; but that gossoon (pointing to the cra-
dle), when the father is angry, runs and
hides himself in one of his boots." "Laird
save us!" exclaimed the giant; "I winna
mind waiting the noo, lassie, I maun be
gaun; gude morning;" and so saying he took
to his heels, and never thought himself
safe until he got among the hills of his own
country.


