"FROM HIM THAT HATH NOT, SHALL BE
	TAKEN AWAY EVEN THAT WHICH HE
	HATH.
	The Utah question at every session of 
Congress illustrates the above Scripture.
Not a session for the last half dozen but a
bill has been introduced to disfranchise the
women of Utah. Who supposes this at-
tempt would dare be made if the women
of the United States possessed the ballot?
Nobody! Who supposes such a suggestion
would ever have been made in regard to
Wyoming, if the women of the United
States possessed the ballot? Not a single
politician has such an idea in his head.
He knows that he strikes at the women of
the Territories because the women of the 
States are politically powerless. If the
women of the States possessed the ballot
they could not only protect themselves, but 
protect other women also.—"The National
Citizen."


THE TORNADO in Wisconsin is one of 
the most dreadful ever known in this coun-
try. About thirty lives were lost, and
from fifty to one hundred persons injured.
The damages to property is estimated at
several hundred thousand, but cannot as
yet be known positively. It is said a storm
similar to this passed over about the same
line of country-twenty-five years ago. The
thunder and lightning accompanying the
storm was most terrific.


ELIZABETH Boynton Herbert has edito-
rial charge of a small part of the Chicago
Inter Ocean, called the Woman's Kingdom.
She says many good things to both men
and women, and her style is pleasing, at-
tractive and practical.


Fruit Pudding: Take one bowlful of thick
cream, two eggs, a teaspoonful salcratus; mix
gently and roll it about an inch in thickness, then
spread it with fruit of whatever kind preferred,
and roll it up in a clean cloth and boil it or steam
it two hours; it may be eaten with cream and
sugar.
	To Remove Iron Mold: Wet the spot; lay it
over a hot-water plate, or strain it over a basin
with hot water in it; put a little salts of lemon on
the spot; wash it as soon as the spot is removed.


[Column 1]
LADIES VISIT
TEASDEL'S
FOR
	Fans, Parasols, Flowers, Ribbons, Lawns,
and Dress Goods, knowing they get Served the
Best and
