NOTES AND NEWS.

	PROF. JOSEPH Henry, L. L. D., lately
deceased, was specially distinguished for
his discoveries in electro-magnetism. Prof.
Henry was in his eighty-first year, but ac-
tively working in his scientific pursuits
until within a few weeks of his death.

	AS T[-]E Forty-Fifth Congress draws
toward its close; people watch with keen
interest the business of each day's proceed-
ings. Many things yet remain unsettled
that it was fully anticipated would be de-
cided during the present session. There
are so many bills now pending that the
members will be compelled to dispatch
business rapidly, if they get through all
prior to apjournment. Much has been
hoped for, by those who have the best in-
terests of the country at heart, from the
present administration, but little has been
accomplished as yet to better the condition
of the affairs of the nation. There is a
fear abroad, seemingly, of secret combina-
tions, and a dread of communism, and
these elements of confusion would act dis-
astrously upon any government, or people.

	ACCOUNTS OF the Eastern dificulties, so
far as we are able to understand them, are
very vague. One day they will and the
next day they wont. Whether they will
ever be able to come to an amicable arrange-
ment seems doubtful. It is now stated by
the "London Post" that Lord Salisbury will
be the English and Count Schonvaloff, pro-
bably, the Russian plenipotentiary in the
Congress. A Paris correspondent says: "It
is thought that the Congress will come to
an agreement in the chief points, and
leave details to resident ambassadors and
second plenipotentiaries. A St. Petersburg
dispatch says Congre[-]s will establish the
general principles of the conference, the
ambassadors meet afterwards at Constanti-
nople. The future adjustment of affairs,
or whether peace or war is the result of the
efforts at reconciliation, is in the hands of
One who turn and overturns kingdoms,
thrones and d minions, and will continue
so to do, until "He whose right it is to reign
shall come."


