BITTER EXPERIENCES.

	How wonderful are the effects of the various
experiences of one's life. They come to all
while passing through this "vale of tears." It
is easy to say to a friend, be brave, take cour-
age, and the like, when one is sailing smoothly
along with prosperous gales; and often even
the words carry such an earnestness with them
that they do have a stimulating influence for
the moment. The peculiar trials of individual
life and its incidents call out all the special
phases of character one possesses, it would seem,
thus developing energies and attributes, mak-
ing men and women more capable of sympa-
thy and action if they wisely discriminate,
and make good use of these prolific sources of
a higher education. This is the peculiar dis-
cipline Providence provides to teach one the
weakness of mortality, the frailty of all earthly
happiness, to lead one to the only true foun-
tain of joy that springs from the bosom of the
Father.
	Jesus passed through the trials of this earth-
ly life, and gained the perfect victory and He is
the pattern; but in the weakness of humauity
one some[-]imes cries out sorely when wounded
in a tender place; when sorrows press heavily
and bitter trials come, such as men and women


shrink from and would that the cup would
pass by were it possible, who can doubt that
heaven gives them strength to endure, cour-
age to go through the severe ordeal? Such
strain upon heart and brain could only be
borne through faith in God. Then is it strange
that sometimes weary and faint the spirit fal-
ters, the courage slackens, and the heart bows
down with grief. Only God knows the strug-
gle of the poor pilgrims, when the paths are
thorny and the ways are rough. Oh ye whose
paths are pleasant, whose hearts are light,
whose homes are full of bright sunshine, lend
a helping hand to the weary traveler, help to
lift the heavy burden laid upon the shoulders
of another, and minister in kindly deeds to
the soul bowed down. Remember while you
quaff the nectar of life's-honey, another is
draining the bitter wormwood; and give a
thought now and then to those who lack the
blessings of which you are in full possession.
	How little one can know of anything until
it is actually experienced. One can never
judge by looking at the experience of others; but
when one has had the real actual experience,
then is that one prepared to enter into the feel-
ings of those similarly situated. It is easy to
jog pleasantly along when all things are pro-
pitious, and friends loving, true and tender are
ready to make any sacrifice to make life desir-
able, but when affiiction lays its heavy hand
in chastening upon you, then is the time to
test the heroism of the soul, and its faith in God.
Then the tempter would fain make you be-
lieve God had forsaken you, heaven disregard-
ed your petitions, and if one can rely wholly
upon the goodness of God and trust implic-
itly in His redeeming love, faith is triumph-
ant. But how tenderly should one minister to
the sorrowing. How inexpressibly dear are
the kind words of friendship when the heart
is bruised and bleeding. None but those who
have drank of the wormwood and gall can
ever know its bitterness, or realize so exquis-
itely its opposite.


