						MALAD; IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send a brief report of the Y. L. M.
I. A. and its organization, thinking it
would be interesting to the readers of the
EXPONENT. We had the pleasure of a
visit from our beloved sisters, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Mrs. Elizabeth Davis, from
Salt Lake City, on the 2d November, 1877,
and after some valuable counsel and in-
struction the young ladies were organized
as follows:
	Elvira Harrison, President,
	Anne Colton,	}
	Matilda Lusk,	}
	Ruth Williams,	}	Counselors,
	Elizabeth Dredge, }
	Maggie Price,	}
	Susan Thomas,	}
	Annie Sawyer, Secretary,
	Jane Lusk, Assistant Secretary,
	Sarah J. Williams, Treasurer
	We have fifty-eight members, and there
are several young ladies that we hope will
be induced to join yet. We are striving
after those things that pertain to self cul-
ture and improvement. Although not
able to send a long list of figures in the
form of donations, still we have done a lit-
tle in that direction; we have purchased a
record book and several things for the So-
ciety, and have a little cash on hand; we
have made a good quilt, and put two shares
in the Brigham City Factory. We intend
the coming summer to commence to store
up grain, according to the counsel of the
servants of the Lord. Our beloved Presi-
dent, Mrs. Elvira Harrison, though weak
in body, is striving faithfully with the
young ladies and we feel in our hearts to
pray the Lord to bless her with His Spirit,
strengthen her weak body, cheer and com-
fort her heart in her labors of love among
the young. It is gratifying to mark the
spirit of perseverance among the young la-
dies in carrying out the counsel of our
President in studying the first principles of
the Gospel. Our young ladies commit to
memory passages from the Bible, Book of
Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
upon the subjects of faith and repentance;
thus we are trying to treasure up in our
hearts the word of the Lord, and prepare
ourselves for future usefulness in the king-
dom of our God.
	We have an excellent Sabbath School
here, and Bishop Dunford, with the super-
intendents and teachers, take great interest
in instructing the young that attend, giv-
ing tickets and rewards to the best behaved


scholars. The spirit of progress is making
rapid strides among the young men; we
are proud and happy to see them standing
forth valiant for God and His kingdom,
filling missions and giving instructions to
their younger brethren; we feel thankful
to the Lord for these praiseworthy institu-
tions, and pray Him to bless them, and all
who labor with them.
	Praying the Lord to bless our sisters who
love the progress of our Father's kingdom,
	MRS. ANNE SAWYER, Secretary,
		MRS. JANE LUSK, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]

