OUR OPINION.

	"The Ballot Box," formerly edited by Sarah
L. Williams, Toledo, Ohio, has changed its
title and locality. It is now "The National
Citizen and Ballot Box," edited and published
by Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage at Syracuse, New
York. The editor expresses a desire to have
the opinions of the press in regard to the mer-
its or demerits of the paper from their respec-
tive standpoints. We would prefer to wait un-
til we had seen several numbers, read and
mentally digested them, before sitting in judg-
ment on the matter. Mrs. Gage is well known
as a valiant defender of woman's cause, an
ab le and clever writer, and public speaker.
We are none of us perfect and therefore should
make due allowance for imperfections in oth-
ers. We wish Mrs. Gage the most complete
success in her new field of labor, and trust she
will give women a fair representation through
her columns. If her paper is national in its
character, as the name would indicate, then it
should advocate the cause of the women of the
nation irrespective of sect or creed, on the
broad platform of national liberty. If Mrs.
Gage is sufficiently magnanimous (and we be-
lieve she is) to speak courageously in defence
of women from all injustice, oppression and
wrong, then she should be sustained by the
best wishes, efforts and patronage of all
men and women who desire to see a better
state of society, through the renovating influ-
ence brought about through woman's material
help in public as well as private life. We once
received a letter from Mrs. Gage which gave


us the most favorable impression of the wo-
man; the letter was rich in womanly senti-
ment, liberal in tone, being entirely free from
that narrow-minded prejudice which often
manifests itself in the correspondence of ladies
who are unacquainted with our religion. We
must not measure others by ourselves, for their
teachings, their surroundings, their experien-
ces may be entirely different from ours; there-
fore let us be charitable towards those who de-
sire to do good even though their way is not
our way. There are many good things in the
National Citizen and the general tone of the 
paper is open, candid and demonstrative,
without sarcasm, or cant.


