EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I feel that I cannot remain silent when
there is so much that should be said in the
cause of Zion. How firm we ought to be
in the cause of truth, for truth can never
die, it is firm as the "Rock of Ages." and
will last to all eternity. There are many
that live in the midst of persecution all their
lives; but it causes them to know in whom
they trust. We cannot depend on the arm
of flesh, we cannot be proven unless we are
tried as gold seven times purified in the
furnace. Trials are for our good if we are
patient, although they may be hard to bear
at the time, but we must realize from
whence the blessings come. I realize that
the things that I pass through gives me
that experience that I could not get in any
other way; therefore it gives me great joy
to think that the Lord overrules all things
for the best good of all his faithful saints,
who love to do his will. I think many
times that this is a hurrying dispensation
in which we live. The Lord is overruling
all things for the advancement of Zion in
the Latter-days. When I look around and
see the manifestations of his power, I feel
anxious to assist in rolling on this great and
mighty work, for if we stand still the car
of time will pass us swiftly by and leave
us in the rear. It matters not how much
we are scoffed at or derided; we must ob-
serve the counsel of our Savior. He will
conduct the plan. Can we become the
working bees in the hive of Deseret, if we
do not accomplish our part of the labor that
is assigned us to do, that we can keep
everything in its proper place, that the
moths cannot find place among us; for what
keeps outside the hive cannot spoil the
honey, but it is the canker that is inside
that gnaws the vitals and lops the branches.
Let us try to keep a clear conscience, void
of offence towards God and man; let this be
our aim and object, that the spirit of peace
may be and abide with us from this time
henceforth and forever.
	Wishing success to your most valuable
paper, I am yours,
			Respectfully,
					SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Circle Valley, Pinto Co.


