EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We held our Quarterly meeting on the 
18th ult.; there was a large attendance and
a very good spirit prevailed; the presiden-
cy gave some excellent teachings in rela-
tion to home industry, economy, union, etc.
Several of the sisters expressed their feel-
ings, and are anxious to do all the good they

[Column 3]
can in the good work in which they are en-
gaged, and also willing to help and sustain
those who preside over them. There is a
good feeling manifested in our Society as a 
general thing; we enjoy ourselves when-
ever we meet together either in testimony,
teacher, or work meetings; also in our so-
cial gatherings. We held a party in the
Social Hall last March in honor of the Su-
perintendent, Assistants and Teachers of the
Sunday School, to show our appreciation of
their labors amongst our children. At four
o'clock, p. m., upwards of two hundred
persons sat down to well filled tables, and
did ample justice to the choice viands
placed before them; the evening was spent
in dancing, singing and listening to short
speeches from the brethren and sisters; we
truly had a glorious time, one long to be re-
membered. Our grain committee of three
sisters, appointed about a year ago, fill their
position well, they are doing a good work
in storing grain, having on hand at pres-
ent, one hundred and seventy-five bushels;
we also have an interest in the sheep herd
of thirty-five dollars which we intend turn-
ing into wheat. Our Quarterly Report is
as follows:
	Donations in merchandise......... $6 62 ½
	Sundries........................................ 12 90
	Sist[-]rs Labor...............................   9  50
								  ————
		Total,					   29 02 ½
	Disbursed......................................    3 46
								  ————
	Balance,					   25 56 ½
								  ————
	Amount now in Treasury............ 125  56 ½
	The sisters join with me in kind regards,
and heartfelt sympathy for your great be-
reavement.
				M. A. LUNT, Cor. sec'y.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, May 25th, was well attended,
and a spirit of unity and good feeling was
plainly indicated by the remarks of the
sisters. Counselor E. R. Snow presided,
and after the usual exercises she addressed
the meeting, giving an interesting account
of her visit to some of the settlements
north, and the cordial and hospitable re-
ception everywhere given to herself and
Mrs. Davis, who accompanied her. Miss
Snow also spoke earnestly upon the storing
of grain, and suggested to the sisters the
propriety of raising beans for the same pur-
pose; advised the sisters to use their ut-
most influence with the brethren to have
beans planted wherever it could be made
practicable. Counselor Zina D. Young
made a few remarks on the subject of rais-
ing beans, and offered to lend out some for
seed, of a very good kind. Mrs. Phebe
W. Snow, of Brigham City, spoke upon the
principles of the Gospel, her testimony of
its truth and her desire to serve God. The
sisters in the congregation were called up-
on to express themselves, and many of
them responded, speaking upon faith, hu-
mility, obedience, Celestial Marriage, and
adding testimony to testimony of the truth
of the Latter-day work. Mrs. Mary Freeze
gave a short sketch of her recent visit to
the Eastern States, and referred to the
strong testimony she had borne, wherever
opportunity offered, on the subject of plural
marriage. The sisters are growing and in-
creasing rapidly in spiritual strength and
power, and will soon be a mighty phalanx
in the midst of Israel. Their power and
influence for good through the channel of
these organizations is a positive fact which
is fast gaining recognition.


