MISS BECKER AT RETFORD.

	Public meetings have been held recently in
many towns in England to consider the ques-
tion of extending the Parliamentary Suffrage
to women householders. At these meetings
usually presided over by the Mayor or one of
his council, many Reverends, professors, and
people of note take part in the proceedings.
A deputation of ladies from the National So-
city for Woman's Suffrage attends and ans-
wers to objections. At a numerously attend-
ed meeting at Retford Apr. 10, a good deal of
interest and curiosity was awakened to hear
Miss Lydia E. Becker of Manchester and Mrs.
Oliver Scratcherd of Leeds. The Rev. H. J.
Church, M. A., in his remarks asked this ques-
tion "How did the ladies propose that if
they recieved the rights of citizens they would
perform the dutios of citizen. For he imag-
ined they would be called upon to defend their
country. They would have to take their share
in preserving the public peace, and, if occas-
ion should arise, to defend their coasts against
invaders. They asked for political privileges
but, as far as he was aware, did not propose
to share political duties. They heard too
much of rights and too little of duties. He
was not prepared to make a speech against
this demand on which, indeed, his opinion
was undecided. He did most distinctly ask
for information."
	"Miss Becker rose to reply to the questions
which she said the gentlemana had so calmly
and moderately, and in such a proper spirit
addressed to them. She hoped the answer she
would give would satisfy his mind. He asked
whether women in asking for political rights,
were prepared to undertake duties of citizens.
She said certainly they were prepared fully to
accept whatever share of political or public
duty could rightly be demanded. The duties
of men and women in the State,in the family,
in society, were equally important; it was also
true they were in some respects diverse. That
was there were some things which men could
do better than women, and some things which
women could do better than men. If men prop-
erly performed their social and family duties,
political power was given them; if women ful-
filled all that could be expected of them in
the family and the State, they were equally
entitled to political power and consideration.
As to juries she was one of those who thonght
the administration of justice would be im-
proved if women had some recognized legal
part in law courts, other than the right of ap-
pearing as prisoners in the dock, or even in the
witness-box. Women prisoners and witnesses
had to go through painful ordeals: They were
examined by men judges, men barristers, men
lawyers, and when anything particularly hor-
rible took place, innocent women witnesses
were vivisected while they were deprived of
the protection of every woman in court. As to
the defense of the country, no doubt it was
true that women had a most terrible interest
in questions of peace or war. When the coun-
try had been imperilled women had never been
behind hand in taking their share. Suppose
they were exposed to an invasion, is there a
man present who thought a woman would
shrink from her duty? (Loud cries of no!)
When the Crimean war took place did not
Miss Florence Nightingale (the remainder of
the sentence was lost amid enthusiastic up-
roar, some shouting Hurrah! at the top of their
voices) There were more ways than one of de-
fending their country." During Miss Beck-
er's speech she was interrupted frequently by
applause and cheering.


