HOME AFFAIRS.

	MR. JUNIUS C. Ferris, the son of Col. Fer-
ris an old friend of President D. H. Wells, is
in the city spending a few days; the young
gentleman is enroute for San Francisco. We
had the pleasure of a short call from him,
through the courtesy of our young relative Ju-
nius F. Wells, who was a guest at the resi-
dence of Col. Ferris in Carthage while in the
East in 1876. We trust Mr. Ferris will enjoy
his visit here, as he will doubtless have a good
opportunity of seeing the beauties of "our val-
ley home."
	MRS. M. I. HORNE returned last Sunday eve-
ning, May 26, from a visit to Bear Lake Valley,
in good health and spirits. She had been ab-
sent seven weeks. She met with several of the
Relief Societies in different places in that vi-
cinity during her absence, and assisted the
Bishop of Liberty in organizing a Relief So-
ciety there. The people are enjoying good
health generally, and there is a good degree of
enterprise and progression apparent in tempo-
ral affairs, much practical work having been
done recently. The brethren and sisters seem
growing in spiritual strength and grace, and
manifested great interest in the organizations
for spiritual development. Mrs. Horne was
everywhere cordially welcomed by the people,
and the sisters were anxious to have her coun-
sel and advice upon matters pertaining to the
growth and development of the associations,
as she is widely known as an earnest and inde-
fatigabie worker in woman's cause, from the
first organization of the Relief Society in Utah.
	WE HAD the pleasure of attending on Wed-
nesday, May 29th, the Annual Meeting of the
Relief Society of Payson, in company with
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and E.
Howard. Greatly to our surprise on enteriug
the meeting house we found it beautifully dec-
orated with articles of home-manufacture, the
handiwork of the sisters of the Relief Society.
Quilts in all varieties of patterns, carpets, rugs,
tidies, laces, flowers, and ladies' mitts, gloves,
vail, etc , of silk raised and manufactured
there; some of the productions are very nice
indeed. The house was well filled, everything
combined to make the meetings interesting
and profitable. Much credit is due the Presi-
dent and Counselors of the R. S., with their
Committee, in managing the affair with so
much taste and ability. In the evening there
was a joint meeting of the Y. M. M. I. A. and
Y. L. M. I. A. Both meetings were well at-
tended, Bishop Tanner and other local authori-
ties were present, and many other brethren,
and a good spirit and feeling prevailed. Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. Zina D. Young gave
much good advice, and related some of their
early experiences in the Church, and their as-
sociations with the prophet Joseph, which
were calculated to inspire faith and heroism in
the minds of the young sisters and women of


less experience. We shall publish full details
of these meetings in our next. Our visit to
Payson was pleasant. Thursday morning rode
over to Spring Lake Villa, which is a charm-
ing little retreat under the brow of the lofty
mountains.

	TO THE women of this Territory who are
interested in storing grain, and other products
against a day of need; we would suggest the 
subject of raising white beans for this express
purpose. They are easily raised and harvested,
and require less care in preserving than al-
most any other kind of product. Mice or
weevils are never found among beans, and 
they contain more strength and nutriment than
any other variety of vegetable food. They
will keep perfectly good in a dry place for a 
great number of years. One of the best things
people could have on hand in case of a famine
would be beans as they would keep longer than
any vegetable, or fruit. Relief Societies that
have land at their disposal where it is not con-
venient to raise wheat, could make good use of 
it by raising beans. Sisters use your influence
with the brethren who are engaged in agricul-
tural pursuits, to plant beans in large or small
quantities, according to circumstances, that
there may be an abundance to lay up in the 
store-houses for future emergencies. Though
a vast amount of grain may be stored yet veg-
etables are a necessity to health, and bean soup,
and bean porridge were considered healthful
diet by the primitive New Englanders. There
is no danger of having too great a quantity or
variety of food. Famines are already devast-
ating the earth in different parts and there is
no defining the boundaries of this terrible
scourge. On the coast of Labrador, where they
depend upon fisheries for support, there has
been a failure in the supply recently, and the
consequences are very serious. The British
government have ordered supplies to be for-
warded to meet psesent needs. The distress
in India and in China has been great and ac-
cording to the prophecies ancient and modern,
there is not likely to be any decrease; all this 
is suggestive to Latter-day Saints of the prac-
tical duty of making wise and diligent prepar-
ation for the time to come.


