Nature's Alchemy Linda S. Fletcher Art thou worthy, Child of Earthland, To behold the dewey wonder, Pearl and rose of early dawning? Or the golden flood of glory On the waiting earth descending, As the day again commences? Art thou worthy of the mountains Tow'ring 'round thee, ever beck'ning Thee to climb, until thy spirit And its earthly tabernacle Fuse to make a soul immortal? Do the crystalline flecks of brilliance, Scintillating in the heavens, Move thy soul to adoration, Teach it to be beautiful, patient? Do the diamond drops of lakelet, Sun-kissed to a shining marvel, Wake a song of joy within thee, Teaching thee to sing the praises Of the God of Love, Creator? Art thou worthy to behold the Close of day, when western heavens Flame with amethyst and amber, And a paean of thanksgiving, Beauty rouses in thy being? If unworthy? All the sublime Magic Nature has to offer, For the soul-refining process, Thou, blind clay, with eyes unseeing, Beholdst, but doth partake not of, Thy radiant spirit, earthy grows; Knows. No progression, But if worthy, Alt thy vision is unclouded, Thou beholdst God made manifest in nature; And thy eager spirit, yearning heavenward. Transmutes thy. Mortal part,? And it becomes immortal. Guide Lessons for January LESSON I  (Third Week in January) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF THE SAvior (Continued) The Good Samaritan?Luke 10:30-35, "And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. "And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. "And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. "But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, "And he went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. "And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee." Comment. The Occasion:?This parable was spoken in answer to a question by a person who was present at a meeting more as a spy. Than an investigator. He was a lawyer or one learned in the laws by which the Jews were governed; i.e., the Law of Moses. This man put the greatest question of life, "What shall I do to be saved?' The Master answered with a double question: "What is written in the law? How readest thou then?" The lawyer gave evidence of an intimate knowledge of the scriptures by quoting correctly the two great laws of eternal life. Laws that are eternal; laws that cannot be disregarded, on penalty of losing the way to heaven: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." The Savior pronounced the answer given by the lawyer as correct: "Thou hast answered right. This do, and thou shalt have. Eternal life." Not merely exist, but live. Live forever the life