THE USE OF MENTAL TESTS 567
dividually. This takes a great deal of time. Consequently many students of mentality have worked out tests and scales that can be given to several children at the same time. These latter are known as group intelligence tests. Of these the National Intelligence tests and the Otis tests are perhaps the best known. Although the method of giving and scoring such tests differ somewhat from the individual tests, the general purpose that of ascertaining the relative mentality of children is the same.
Mentality tests help the teacher to better understand the child, and are therefore, aids to better teaching, for obviously if the teacher understands the child better she can better instruct him. Other factors being equal or nearly so, one would expect a man of 180 pounds to throw out more dirt from a trench than a man of 120 pounds; and similarly children of great mental capacity should be expected to achieve greater intellectual results than those less gifted. A teacher will, then expect less of a child whose I. Q. is 75 than she does from one whose I. Q. is 125. If she does her work well, she will work each to his capacity, the ideal always being to teach the child that which he needs to know, think and feel up to the limits of his inborn capacity.
To measure the progress of pupils in the subjects taught in school, other tests called educational tests are being devised and improved. The traditional A. B. C. D. marking system is gradually being supplanted by a more definite and accurate system of evaluating the results of instruction. The tendency is to make teaching not only an art but a science.
Both mentality tests and educational tests though still in the experimental stage of development serve a very commendable purpose, namely, that of knowing, in an objective way, the capacity and progress of the child. Each form of test should be interpreted in terms of what it reveals and should never be regarded as the sole criterion. Each is a means of knowing the child better.
But to use tests for the purpose of classifying children as botanists classify plants and then segregating them into groups, is not as important as enthusiasts for mental measurement would have us believe. When children are so segregated, there is a tendency for the teacher to plan her instruction in terms of the group and the class becomes the unit of instruction instead of the individual child. Here the premise is obviously wrong. Learning does not go on in the group as such; it goes on in each individual member of the group. The recognition of this fact has brought about an emphasis on individual instruction through supervised study and the modern school is becoming more and more a place for directed pupil activity and supervised study and less a "recitative" school. In this new type of school the child as an individual and not the group is made the unit of instruction.
EDITORIAL


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - - - - JEANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager - - - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah