GUIDE LESSONS. ? 179 "I baptize thee in the name of the Father, arid of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen,'' at the same time pouring or sprinkling the water on the infant. If the person is of riper years, he is required to learn the principles of the Christian religion (a Catechism with the 39 Articles of Faith) and to prepare himself with fasting and prayer. Questions are then asked by the minister concerning the candidate's future godly conduct, and if he accepts the articles of the Christian faith and the Apostles' Creed, he is then baptized by the minister pouring a little water with his right hand on the head of the candidate, the minister repeating the same formula. The ceremony used is like our own with two essential differences: our elders baptize by immersion always. Moreover, when about to begin the ceremony, the elder raises his right arm and says: "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen." (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 20:73.) Note the phrase which precedes the ceremony, 'Being commissioned of Jesus Christ." That constitutes the vital difference between the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and all other religions on the earth. As we learned in our first lesson, all these principles, doctrines and ordinances rest directly upon the authority of the priesthood. Baptism for the dead was practiced in ancient times; and in the regular burial service of all Catholic, Episcopalian, and most of the Protestant churches, occurs that question of Paul's, "Else, if the dead rise not at all, why are ye then baptized for the dead?" In vain endeavor to explain away this vital passage, the British Encyclopedia, in the article on baptism, says: "Paul, in 1 Cor, 15:29, glances at this principle of baptism for the dead as an established practice familiar to those whom he addresses. Three explanations are possible: (1) The Saints before they were quickened or made alive together with Christ, were dead through their trespasses and sins. In baptism they were buried with Christ and arose, like him, from the dead. We can, therefore, paraphrase v. 29 thus, 'Else what shall they do which are baptized for their dead selves?" It is in behalf of his own sinful, i. E., dead self, that the sinner is baptized and receives eternal life. (2) Contact with the dead entailed 'a pollution which lasted at least a day and must be washed away bv ablutions, before a man is re-admitted to religious cult, This was the rule among the Jews. Is it possible that the words for the dead signify because of contact with the dead?' (3) Both these explanations are forced, and it is more probable that by a make-believe, common in all religions, and not unknown 'a the earliest church, the sins of dead relatives, about whose salvation their survivors were anxious, were transferred into living persons, who assumed for the once their names and were baptized in their behalf; so, in vicarious wise, 
 Rendering it possible for the sins of the dead to be washed away. The 'Mormons' have this rite. The idea of transferring sin into another man or into an animal, and so getting it purged through him or it, was widespread in the age of Paul and long afterwards. Chrysostom says that the substitutes were put into the beds of the deceased, and assuming the voice of the dead asked for baptism and remission of sins. Tertullian and others attest this custom among the followers of Cerinthus and Marcion." The Latter-day Saints know that baptism for the dead is essential, because the symbol pertains to earth life and the dead need the regenerating influence of the Savior's death and resurrection, symbolically administered, for their earthly bodies as well as for their spiritual tabernacles. Christ was born and died upon this earth, so the symbol of baptism must be performed upon this earth. For further items concerning this subject see the Compendium, Ready Reference, and Orson Pratt's works, etc., etc. QUESTIONS. What are symbols? Name some of daily use not. Referred to in this lesson. What is a sacrament? What can you say of baptism? Quote Matt. 28:19, Mark 16:16, John 1:33, John 3:5. Quote Pearl of Great Price, page 17. ' What is the proper mode of baptism? Why? Who are proper candidates for baptism? What can you tell about baptism for the dead? 10. Why should the dead receive this ordinance? 11. Who has the authority to baptize? 12. May women officiate in this ordinance? Why not? 13. Why should men who officiate be commissioned of Jesus Christ? 14. What do you know about baptism for the dead? 15. Who should perform baptisms for the dead? 16. Where should baptisms for the dead be performed? 17. Why should men holding the Priesthood perform these ordinances? SORNAMPWN ry GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. (Second Week in May.) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in May) Before turning to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells' poems specifically, we shall. Discuss, in brief, poetry as distinguished from prose. Any subject that one cares to discuss may be a topic for prose discourse; while poetry must be select in its choice of subject. The thought, the feeling, and the form in poetry are usually lifted above what we regard as ordinary. A scientist might write a very acceptable article on sawdust, or an ash can; but it would take a genius of the highest order to lift such subjects into the realm of poetry. The diction of poetry is heightened. It is all very well in poetry to say: "What hands are here? Ha! They pluck out mine eyes! Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather the multitudinous seas inqgarnadine, Making the green one red." Such language would be little short of sheer nonsense in prose. The musical or rythmical quality is insisted on in poetry. This does not necessarily mean rhyme. Such poetry as is used in the writing of a drama, or a narrative poem, frequently omits the rhyme, that the verse may be free. The song, or lyric poetry usually employs the rhyme. 7 Some one has, rather cleverely, described prose as one's mental content presented in a business suit, while poetry makes its appearance in a dress suit. "Sing the Sweet,' is a song of the Christ, in five stanzas. The author takes us from the birth scene to the great Mediator who stands before the throne of God, seeking the salvation of those he had shed his blood to redeem. "Aunt Em" says that the beauty and deep significance of the Christ life and mission inspired this hymn. The first two stanzas are devoted to the birth story, beginning: 
 "Sing the sweet and lovely story," etc. We always think of this scene with great tenderness, this thought is emphasized by the author. One author might have chosen one detail, another, another, in bringing that picture into being. Mrs. Wells chooses the morning star of glory. Nature certainly makes large appeal to her in all of her poetry. "Birds had nests the foxes roaming," etc. - This stanza beginning thus was undoubtedly inspired by the passage of Scripture beginning, ""The foxes have holes," etc., an effective allusion to a very beautiful passage. "Now for us He's interceding," etc. It is the vision of Christ, the Mediator, that catches the eye of the imagination as we read this stanza. One of the chief merits of the hymn is its conciseness. In five brief stanzas we have gone from the cradle to the throne of the Eternal. Aunt Em's second hymn. Might fittingly be used as a funeral hymn. It was written while she struggled with the pangs incident to the loss of her daughter Emmeline. Emmeline Wells, the daughter of Emmeline B. And Daniel H. Wells was born Sept. 10, 1853, and died at the age of twentyfour. She was a school teacher, having assisted Miss Cook in her work in Salt Lake City. She was a beautiful singer; a most attractive young woman. Her mother felt her death with a keenness that she has never forgotten. The hymn begins: "We lay thee softly down to sleep," etc. The first stanza takes us to' the grave of the beloved, where angels vigils keep. Death is looked upon as a sleep, and the hope of meeting is sure. The second stanza breathes a note of sorrow, as well as words of perfect resignation. We are still at the tomb by the loved earthly remains, but hope is there. In the last stanza, flowers are being strewn on the grave, in gentleness and deepened sorrow; again hope pierces the gloom, with the thought of the realm where sorrow and parting are no more. This hymn is infinitely tender throughout, and possesses the two prime requisites of a funeral hymn, resignation and hope. Indeed it is a notable fact that each stanza contains a reference to the life beyond life. The tenderness, is produced first of all by the emotional quality, and secondly by the diction. The music of the stanza is one of the pleasing and poetic features of the hymn. It would be a most extraordinary and incredible thing if some of the Latter-day Saint hymns did not reflect our natural GUIDE LESSONS. 183 environment. It is a matter of great interest, that President Charles W. Penrose and President Emmeline B. Wells should have written two of the best, as well as the best known Mountain hymns in our now rather large collection of hymns. Unlike President Penrose's beautiful hymn, Mrs. Wells hymn was written in the valleys, and takes first place among her poems set to music. "Our Mountain Home so Dear." The outstanding beauty of this hymn is found in the fact that it is absolutely true in its local color. It is not the mountains of Switzerland, nor the Berkshire hills, far famed in the state where "Aunt Em" was born, that are imaged and written of in this poem, but Our Mountain Home. In proof of this statement let us follow some of the details that give local color. One of the features that has distinguished the intermountain cities, and particularly the cities of Utah, has been the streams that have coursed through the streets giving life to the trees, which grew on their banks, The second line of the first stanza speaks of "crystal waters clear." The second line of the second stanza, refers to the "sparkling rills,' and the first line of the fourth stanza speaks of the streamlet, this time giving the spiritual meaning. Nothing is more characteristic of the desert we have settled, than the sunshine of the summer time. It makes us think of the poet Wordsworth's famous lines, "The sunshine is a glorious birth." This brilliant sunshine is found in "Aunt Em's'" poem. In the last line of the second stanza the author writes of "sunshine everywhere.' Even the expression "sparkling rills" suggests sunshine, for it is the sunlight most of all that makes the rills sparkle; and certainly it is the sunshine that makes the landscape "bright and fair." The second stanza begins: "We'll roam the verdant hills," etc. Does that not take us on to some mountain side, or into some canyon where such experience is ours every hour? "In Sylvan depths and shade," etc. The last two stanzas not only give the spiritual meaning of the poem, marking "Aunt Em" as a true child of New England, and a natural daughter of the Latter-day Saints; but they give religious significance to what might otherwise be a nature lyric pure and simple. In other words, back of the pure joy we have from nature for her own sake, is the great and tremendous fact that all these things are the handiwork of God, who is the Creator of the heavens and the earth. This, the poet tells us, in her beautiful climax, is the "art divine." 
 This truism is the wonderful message of the third and fourth stanzas. "Where'er we pass,- The hand of God we see In leaf and bud and tree," etc. In the last stanza the emotional quality is heightened. Variety is obtained by using the word bespeak, instead of repeating the word she used in a former stanza. A grand climax is suggested at the close combining all the works of God bespeaking his divine power and divine art through the smiling face of nature. The diction in this poem fits the thought, and the verse becomes part of a stanza that suggests with every word God's great outdoor world, in lines that please the ear. Lines that have been set to music, which echo and re-echo "in the Valley Home" "Aunt Em" loves so well, by the throngs of Zion's children, and the sweet singers that dwell in this cherished spot, where "crystal waters clear flow ever free. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Devote as much time as the lesson period will permit to a biographical sketch of President Emmeline B. Wells. 2. A. Suggest some subjects that you think would be worth the heart, brain, and pen of a poet. B. Suggest some subjects that you think would be unworthy the pen of a poet. 3. A. Under what title is Emmeline B. Wells' book of poems published. B. Give the titles of her three hymns included in the Latter-day Saints hymn book. 4, Give the full quotation beginning, "Foxes have holes, etc." 5. What event in her life prompted the writing of, "Sing ye of a home?" 6. Find the phrase in each stanza that gives hope of a life beyond. 7. Indicate how the noble faith and resignation, expressed in "Aunt Em's" poem, would help others bowed down with sorrow and a sense of deep bereavement, to bear their losses nobly and with resignation. 8. Select words and phrases that go to show that the writer is intimately acquainted with "Our Mountain Home." 9. Give some reasons showing that "Aunt Em," above all other women in the Church, is best equipped for the writing of "Our Mountain Home." GUIDE LESSONS. 185 10. How has Emmeline B. Wells love of nature assisted in her religious life? 11. What spiritual message is contained in "Our Mountain Home''? LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in May) CHILD LABOR Its Use and Abuse in Human Development The purpose of child labor legislation is to correct abuses, or to prevent the exploitation of the child for material gain. The most flagrant cases of child exploitation occurred in England, as late as the middle of the 19th century, in the coal mines and in factories. These abuses were also common in manufacturing centers in the United States. More than fifty years ago Massachusetts passed laws forbidding employment in factories of children under ten, and limiting employment of those between ten and fourteen years. The principles upon which this type of legislation is based is that the child has a right to a reasonable opportunity for both 'physical and mental development, and that it is in harmony with the welfare of society that these rights should be protected. Child labor in mines and in factories is especially objectionable because so manifestly detrimental to child development. The monotony of it, its possible danger to life and limb, in case of inexperienced children, and its liability to unsanitary conditions, are manifest. It is not customary to restrict by law child labor on farms and in homes. A limited amount of varied farm labor experience has generally been regarded as a valuable factor in development of a boy; the same may be said of home work for a girl. This, however, is left to the judgment of parents, except as restricted indirectly by compulsory school attendance laws. The social and economic conditions that have thus far prevailed in the Rocky Mountain region have made child labor a much less difficult problem than in some of the great centers of population. It happens in some of our western cities and towns that the problem is reversed. Children, when out of school, grow up on the streets and in other public places, without opportunity to spend a little time each day in work suitable to de- 
 Velop habits of industry, responsibility and sense of economic values?essential qualities of character in every citizen. Some extreme opponents of child labor have gone so far as to say that a young person should be entirely free from work and its responsibilities up to the age of twenty-one?doubtless an excellent method of making irresponsible drones. It is very important that all the time of both children and youths be well occupied. Habits of merely loafing or getting into mischief may be worse than some forms of child labor. The young infant should be well occupied with sleep about eighteen hours out of twenty-four. As soon as he is able, his waking hours, not occupied in feeding, are devoted to play. Certain phases of initiative play develop into work, as do such simple activities as getting dressed and undressed, and putting clothing in its proper place. If the child is not trained early in these simple responsibilities, the task becomes doubly hard. At six or seven years the child's time properly becomes occupied with schooling, play, and suitable work, the last named in very limited amount; schooling is meant to include private lessons in activities such as music or folk-dancing. Play is a very important factor in the child's development. As he becomes mature, however, the proportion of time devoted to play,+as a major occupation and to work, as a minor occupation, should be very gradually reversed. This transition should, however, be so managed as always to keep in mind the good of the child; to give him the best opportunities for development of body and mind, not neglecting his positive moral development. In this connection suitable work is very necessary. One of the most important habits to be acquired is that of thoughtfulness of the comfort and welfare of others, and unselfish action. How many mothers ruin their own health and happiness by slaving for their sons and daughters, while at the same time they ruin their children's morals by confirming in them habits of laziness, selfishness and thoughtlessness? There is in every household some work suitable for healthy boys and girls. To make use of these opportunities in the moral training of children is just as important as to send them to school. It is a good thing to give an older child a little regular work and hold him strictly responsible for it. He may want to do it at first and as readily want some one else to do it for him when he is disinclined. When children rule the household, the parents do the children's tasks as often as the children require. It is needless to say that this also is morally ruinous. The firmness and persistence necessary to develop responsibilities in the child will, at times, require more parental labor than child labor, but it pays. GUIDE LESSONS. 187 QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. (a) Do some farmers require too much work, or unsuitable work, of their boys under fourteen years of age? Give illustrations and reasons. (b) Do same mothers do likewise with their daughters of the same age?. 2. Why are long hours at monotonous work, even though easy, objectionable, in case of children under fourteen years? 3. Give examples of work suitable to children: (a) In case of girls seven to ten, (b) Ten to fourteen years, {c) In case of boys seven to ten, (d) Ten to fourteen years. Explain how this work may be beneficial to the child. 4. Show how failure to requife any work of children, seven to fourteen years of age, may be detrimental to the child. Give illustrations. 5. Explain the mother's responsibility in training her daughters in habits of service in the home. 6. (a) In what way is the labor of children up to 14, 16, or 18 years of age limited by law in your state? (b) What is the purpose of this law? 7. State the principle by which you can determine in any case what work to require and what not to require of a child of any given age? PROSPECTIVE MOTHER By Addie S. Pace Prospective mother: The purest emblem of unselfish love, thou art, As soul to soul thou dost commune with newly pulsing heart, As hand in hand with God thou treadest holy ground, With him dost mould immortal clay When lo! His masterpiece is formed. Prospective mother: The sweetest task of all life's given tasks is thine, Responsibility it is that makes it so sublime, A privilege ne'er equalled in all the work of art, To fashion that tabernacle fit to clothe a spark of God. Prospective mother: Let thy day of privilege be one glad day of song, To show thy worthiness of favors so divine, sing on, sing on; Fear thou no evil, though thy way through shadow lies, God shall not desert thee, nor forget thy noble sacrifice. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mer. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate _ Eating New, different, delicious?Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices.. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER.