[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

Notes to the Field Work and Business Department HE earliest activity of the Relief Society was sewing for the poor. Not in many years, not even in War time, was the opportunity for that work more apparent, than during the past season. ?
Lack of proper and warm clothing for children during the last winter kept many of them from school and Sunday School attendance. It is reported that others attended so poorly clad that teachers called for contributions of clothing. To feed the hungry and clothe the naked is essentially the work of the Relief Society. To be aware of this responsibility and be ready at all times to assume it, is a Christian act which brings its own rewards. Now, during the summer months.
When the need is not so pressing, is a good time to make plans and prepare for future needs. RADUATION time is almost here.
Suitable clothing for this event becomes a real problem to many mothers. Let us give a helping hand. In cleaning closets, chests, etc., find those articles of clothing that we can do without and share with those less fortunate. It is surprising what wonders can be wrought by the mother who can remodel. A little dye, some alteration, a different bow or flower will transform the old apparel into something new and beautiful.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C, Irvine Nettie D. Bradford - - - President - - - - First Counselor - - - Second Counselor: General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Emeline Y, Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Donna Durrant Sorensen Marcia K, Howells
Editor: -: -:: - = 1 cate Kimball Manager - Louise Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII MAY, 1936 No. 5 EDITORIAL Good Will Month N order that good-will may become constructively potent a number of organizations are working unitedly together during Universal Good Will Month. All interested are asked to work during the month of May to further this cause.
Suggestive programs are being sent out. The following invocation is being distributed widely: "Let the forces of light bring illumination to all mankind. Let the spirit of peace be spread abroad. May men of Goodwill everywhere meet in a spirit of cooperation. Let power attend the efforts of the brothers of humanity. May forgiveness on the part of all men be the keynote of this time." The week beginning Sunday, May 3d, the subject will be '""Good-Will, The Basis of Human Relations". The thought for the week is "In the presence of conscious good-will, Light is obtained on all questions". The week beginning Sunday, May 10th, '"Good-Will, The Basis of National Progress". The thought for the week is "Let Good-Will be manifested among all citizens, that the nation may move forward truly". The week beginning Sunday, May 17th, "Good-Will, The Basis of World Peace". The thought for the week is 'Peace is only possible among men and nations striving for Good-Will". The week beginning Sunday, May 24th, "Good-Will, The Healer of the Past and the Hope of the Future". The thought for the week is "Past injuries dissolve, future fears fade when Good-Will is tried". Sunday, May 3lst, religious leaders are asked to deliver messages on Mutual Forgiveness"'.