[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic lessons offer the members an avenue of inspiration to better and more profound reading and research than is found in other courses of study. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the ward workers, who are constantly searching out the women who seem to have been forgotten and bringing them into the fold. Let us be just as diligent in seeing that our daughters are enthusiastic, happy Relief Society workers. A few thoughts for the coming summer: More enthusiasm for the possibilities of Relief Society; Magnify the value of youth and age learning and working together; Make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day during the entire year; Recognize Relief Society as an heritage in its fullest sense.
FORWARD Mary C. Kimball
Objectives shape the destiny of individuals, organizations and causes. The objectives of the Relief Society were set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and its first president, Emma Smith.
These objectives are as wide as humanity, as far-reaching as the needs of God's children.
They embrace the intellectual and the spiritual.
They foster love of God and love of fellow men. Who with such goals marked out could fail to reach the heights?
Since the organization there has been a forward march in an effort to realize the objectives thus set forth. The organization more nearly approaches its standards today than ever before. As we look back we realize that the history of the organization is glorious, and that it has ever pressed forward. The obligation today is to build on the splendid foundation laid by those who have labored in the past, so that the super structure shall be as fine as the foundation merits. If we would go forward, we must not get into ruts. If we would meet the needs of the present and the future, we must not think because something was good yesterday that it necessarily is the best thing for today. We must learn to face things squarely, think them through clearly, and thus meet every problem as it arises in the best possible way. We must not think because the Government has done so much for its people that the service angle of Relief Society is a thing of the past.
There are still children who need clothing; there are still mothers who need to be trained in sewing and household arts; there are still those who need bread, and perhaps more than ever before there are many who need spiritual uplift.
While the great educational program in the past has served more people than have been reached by looking after their physical needs, the call for all officers and members today is to go out into their wards and bring in those who are not being benefited by this great organization.
There are thousands of women in the Church who need an outlet for their talents and ability, for their handicraft and mental and spiritual gifts which this organization affords.
While thousands of women have learned to think intelligently on their feet and to express themselves clearly and have learned to appreciate the Gospel more thoroughly, to drink in the beauties of literature, to know how complex are the social problems of life, there are many who have not yet been reached.
They should be brought in and be made vitally interested and active.
There are many who are attending our organizations who are timid and backward and who need to be brought forward and to find joy in participating in the class work. A big percentage should take part in the lesson work.
Teaching should be more effective that the things taught may be put into life.
More religion should be brought to people who are spiritually starved. Every Relief Society officer and member should resolve to: speak more kindly, pray oftener, carry love and optimism, keep closer contact with the divine. The Relief Society women, because of their great organization and the unity with which they press forward, have greater power than any other women in the world to preserve, cherish and promote civilization, to increase spirituality, to uplift the community and to press forward purposefully. So forward this great organization marches, learning each week more about life, about its ideals and its problems, doing the needed things, knowing that for "web begun God sends the thread," having ever a sense of eternity which makes for deep thinking and noble living.
RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES Hazel H. Greenwood
Today when woman is entering successfully into various fields of labor in the professions and the business world, it is necessary for her to acquaint herself with the underlying principles of government and to actively engage in movements that will safeguard and build up the community and the home. The world has made greater progress in the last one hundred years than in any similar length of time in all history. But there is no material progress in that time greater than the progress woman herself has made. This has been due to the position she herself has earned. She is equipped to take a prominent place in public and civic affairs as well as in her home, by her education and training. Woman's greatest province is the home. There her interest centers. To do her part well, she must understand the forces that tend to strengthen the home as well as those seeking to undermine it. She must understand the influences surrounding her family both for good and for evil. It has been said, "The destiny and greatness of America lies around the hearthside." The mother must reach outside the home and study conditions in order to maintain freedom and security within. Voting is one of the privileges of citizenship. The Constitution of Utah granted to women the full right of suffrage. Under the 19th Amendment to the Federal Constitution ratified in 1920 this right was granted to all citizens of the United States regardless of sex. To vote should be regarded by all women as a duty. As long as people who know what is right fail to vote we shall have many things as they should not be. With the changes that have come in economic conditions and the status of women, we have more time for social service of which we are becoming conscious, thus enlarging the mother office, to world ministry. If our Relief Society women throughout the world could fully realize their responsibility, they could be an indomitable force in rehabilitation and raising the standards in all communities. Women of our Church have good conscientious leaders and through their direction the Relief Society will find opportunities to expand their work and to study not only benevolent and religious activity but the manifold duties of every-day life. No other church devotes so much time in training for leadership as ours. No other church emphasizes home making as does our Church. Let us see that we are prepared for this leadership. Our women must rise above prejudice and fault-finding. Find out the facts and base judgments on them. Study local needs and situations and create a sentiment for better conditions. Inform yourselves on the processes of Government. How best to serve our community through our home and our Church is the problem of today. To do this in the best way is to actively take part in the affairs of government by using our franchise, to take part in the social service in our communities through its organizations and educational facilities and to train ourselves to assume leadership.
ALCOHOL EDUCATION Judge Oscar W. McConkie
There is a Japanese proverb which says: "First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man." Lady Astor said: "When I have a good time, I want to know about it." It has been said that the prerequisites of temporal salvation depend upon health, energy and economy. It is not my purpose, this afternoon, to refer to any of those elements classified as spiritual.