[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business Meeting]

Work and Business Meetings.
STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
"There will be a change in the schedule for visiting your Conference-conventions. The General Authorities have divided the quarterly conferences, of which they will take one-half, and the auxiliary organizations the other half. The Relief Society will hold its conference-conventions during the third and fourth quarters of the year, beginning the last of June and continuing through the remainder of the year. Our program will be carried on very much as it has been. The General Authorities have given us permission to hold our Officers' and some other meetings on Saturday afternoon, and Sunday morning we may meet with the Bishops and our Ward Presidents. We will get our programs to you as early as possible, and you will realize that we cannot change the date because it is set by the General Authorities, and is a part of the quarterly conference. I believe you will be very happy to know that we are going to change the time for publishing the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine. The early publication of the lessons did not work out very satisfactorily, so the lessons for the Fall of 1936-1937 will not begin until the August issue of the Magazine. We have been asked about the singing practice in our Relief Society meetings.
Some of the wards have felt that they have not time for this, and others, that the singing practice is not long enough?they would like the greater part of Relief Society devoted to this. We now restate this ruling, which we have announced before, that the singing practice is to be ten minutes, and no longer, at each of the Ward meetings, except Theology. The Theology, preceded by the Visiting Teachers' Training Meeting, and including our Testimony meeting, makes a very full period, and we think the singing practice should be dispensed with for this day.
Singing is to bring our minds into harmony with the purpose of the meeting, to give the spiritual atmosphere, and help one to leave the things of every day life outside.
Singing the first song is an important preparation for the prayer that follows. We want to congratulate the Stakes and Wards for the work they have done; on the excellent programs they have had for the seventeenth of March. In general they have been outstanding, and the ingenuity in finding so many new things has been greatly appreciated.
There have been just a very few Stakes where, in the effort to escape from the drab or the too serious things of life, programs that were hardly in keeping with the Relief Society have been presented. We do not wish to be stiff and formal, but we do want to be dignified and exemplary women. We think it is entirely out of place for women to blacken their faces for any show, and we would rather not have women dress in men's clothing.
Always try to do things that retain dignity, and you can have pleasure, too, by making the Anniversary Day programs as high grade as it is possible to have them. We have been informed in some cases that there is no report made of the business discussed in the meetings of the General Conference, when you return home. We were just a bit surprised at the Leadership Week in Provo, when a Stake Board member said she had never heard a word about our Handicraft book.
This officer could not attend meetings last April or October, and nearly a year after our book was published she had never heard of it. I wonder if you Presidents feel that this book is as fine as we think it is! We have had so many responses from it.
Have you taken it up seriously, realizing that there was something worthwhile in it, or have you just scarcely looked at it and thought it was not what you wanted?
Orders from far remote parts have come in for the Handicraft book, as shown by our order files?educators from all over America have asked for it.
Handicraft is not just a fad, it is something that will make a change in our lives. Sister Barker, who spent some time in Czechoslovakia related what a wonderful thing happened to the people of Czechoslovakia.
They had been almost serfs, not even permitted to use their own language.
Some of the women worked in the fields, barefoot, but no matter how hard the work, or how menial the task, they did not forget to try some creative work largely through the advice of their great leader, Masaryk?they kept alive the spirit of their nation.
When these women came home from the fields, weary as they must have been, they would do some beautiful handwork. Sister Barker saw a piece of lace upon which one woman had spent almost all her life. She had tried to copy the flowers that were native to that part of the country, and in a square of lace, a most exquisite thing was preserved.
There was no money value placed upon it, but to have this outlet for self-expression in her life was of immense value. Latter-day Saint women could have a culture that could be outstanding. I feel that we have neglected some of the beautiful arts that our mothers and grandmothers brought to this country. We are especially blessed because we have people here from every country, so that from all of these lands we should develop an art which is distinctly our own. It is very interesting to know that the Congressional Library in Washington has asked for the bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine that were missing, to complete their files. If any of you go to Congress and need the Relief Society Magazine, you may find it in the library there.
About a year ago the United States Public Health Department asked us to cooperate with them in making it popular to have outdoor toilets in better condition throughout the Western states. Mr.
Male met with us in our