[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Earth is more than kind in May. Walk among the flowers and inhale life's sweet elixir.
Florence Nightingale and Jane Addams were the only women noted among the 10 greatest humanitarians of all time by a Philadelphia group of leaders in religion, science, statesmen, social workers, and philanthropists.
No one showed more courage than the telephone operators during the recent floods. A young woman in Johnstown sent out the following message: "There are ten of us up here. We think we won't be safe much longer. Every minute another line goes out. We are just taking care of the few calls that come in. We are working in the dark. The water is splashing against our floor now. There are no row boats. Thanks for wishing us good luck, we need it."
Crown Princess Marie Jose, of Italy has taken up war work in a hospital at Eritrea.
Mrs. Muriel M. Seyfert of Harvard College observatory has discovered three gigantic clouds of star dust in the Milky Way.
Miss Ethel Connelly, teacher of English and Dramatic Art in the West High School, Salt Lake City, who died last month, was much beloved for the charm of her personality and intellectual attainments.
The Beautiful Marilyn Miller, star of the musical stage, died last month at the height of her career.
Anna Eleanor Roosevelt was recently given the Algernon Sidney Sullivan award from Rollin's College, Fla., for the attainment of the finer elements of character and ideals of service to humanity.
Mrs. Beatrice Koontz of New York runs successfully a dining car restaurant. She says: "If you are adventurous, know your field and are not afraid of work 24 hours a day you might clear $10,000 a month, for they are popular, but don't count on it. There are hazards."
Mrs. S. Agnes M. Craig, Justice of the Municipal Court of the first and second districts of the Bronx, is the first woman in New York state to hold that office.
Mrs. Anna L. Sweet of California died last month. Mrs. Sweet sat a few feet away from Abraham Lincoln in Ford's Theatre, the night he was shot.
Hilda Jones, a negro high school girl, designed the flowered pattern which Mrs. Roosevelt chose for her chiffon Easter costume.
Edith Wharton's collection of short stories, Helen Waddell's "Desert Fathers," Nora Hoults' "Holy Ireland," and Storm Jameson's "In The Second Year" are some of the new popular books by women.
Marie Connell, 78, of Pittsburgh attends high school night classes. She says: "It's never too late to learn. Believe me, I know."