[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Adequate Care for Mothers]

Adequate Care for Mothers A VERY valuable part of Mother's Day thought is the movement to bring to the attention of the people of the United States the needless waste of life of mothers in childbirth and to rouse people to demand better maternity care. The Maternity Center Association has for its keynote for the sixth annual Mother's Day Campaign, 336 "Early and adequate care reduces the risks of motherhood: Father plays a leading role." Our maternal mortality is over 15,000 a year, and experts estimate that over half of these deaths could be prevented. It is appalling to think that 8,000 mothers died last year who did not need to die. The social consequences of these deaths is beyond computation. The problems that attend broken homes help to fill the delinquency courts and to bring disaster to many. "The crime of it is that although we know enough to prevent these deaths, they are not being prevented, The general death rate never was lower.
Diphtheria and tuberculosis are on their way out as public health problems. We know enough to reduce maternal mortality as much as tuberculosis has been reduced during the past quarter of a century. But the death rate among mothers has remained nearly stationary since we have had statistics in the United States. "It is also interesting to note that maternal deaths last year were nearly half as numerous as automobile fatalities about which the Nation was so thoroughly aroused.
There were 15,000 known maternal deaths compared with 36,400 automobile deaths. "Tt also does not redound to our credit that the maternal mortality rate in the United States is one of the highest in the world.
While this statement has been questioned from time to time because of the different methods of classification of deaths in various countries, the United States Children's Bureau in a recent study of the subject declared that ""No matter what method of procedure is used, the United States retains an exceedingly high rate as compared with other countries."
Careful study has been made how RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to prevent this waste of life and this six-fold program has been suggested by this organization to answer the question, "What is adequate maternity care?" 1. A complete medical examination early in pregnancy. 2.
Regular and frequent medical supervision of prospective mothers. 3. An aseptic delivery under the supervision of an obstetrician. 4. Supervision, care and instruction until the mother is able to resume her work. 5.
Examination of the mother at six weeks, three months, six months and one year after the baby is born. 6.
Arrangements for continuous medical supervision of the baby. The Maternity Center Association says the responsibility rests upon: "First, the prospective parents themselves. One of the purposes of this special Mother's Day effort is to tell expectant mothers what care they should have. The late Dr. Whitridge Williams of Johns Hopkins University said: 'When the women of America realize the value and need for maternity care they will demand it.
Then and only then will they get it.' "Second, the medical profession generally and each member of that profession who cares for pregnant mothers.
This group as a whole is struggling virtually unaided in many communities. "Third, the social and health agencies, public and private. The duty of this group is to find mothers in early pregnancy and to direct them to places where adequate care is given." It is hoped most earnestly that in every community every possible effort will be put forth to make childbirth safe, so that no mother will die needlessly, and that every baby will have a safe birth. L. D.S. You cannot build a great BRIDGE without a blue print. You cannot construct a RAILROAD without a survey.
Neither can you mold a SUCCESSFUL CAREER without a plan. Ask for our booklet "Planning Your Future"