[Vol23 | May 1936 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business Meeting]
Work and Business Meeting, and had something there on display. We were asked to endorse the work, which we did.
Under date of March 27, 1936, we received a letter from the Treasury Department of the United States Public Health Service, thanking the Relief Society for the cooperation they had given in this project, and saying that in the Western States, where Relief Society is active, they have more of these very fine toilets than in any other place in the United States. In order that there be no misunderstanding on the subject of the Relief Society and the Missionary work, we quote from the Bulletin issued by the Presiding Bishop's Office: "Relief Society and Missionary Donations: It is learned that in some instances Ward Bishoprics have placed upon the Ward Relief Society the responsibility of raising funds for Missionaries out in the field.
This is, of course, improper, because the Relief Society is specifically charged with other responsibilities, among which is the raising of funds for charity. The gathering of any donations for the aid of the Missionaries should be either under the direction of Melchizedek quorum members or a specially appointed Missionary Committee." Now sisters, we do not want you to feel that we are not interested in the Missionaries, we are, and if any one of us can contribute to the Missionaries, it is a privilege to do so, but the Relief Society, as an organization, is not called upon to raise money for the Missionaries. We have prepared a gift card, which we will take up more in detail in the Magazine Department, but I want the Stake Presidents to know about it. We will send to any person who receives the Magazine as a Birthday, Mothers-day or Christmas gift, this very attractive card. In reading the Bulletin from the Presiding Bishopric, which gives the names of the Stakes from all over the Church, and the percentage of weekly attendance at Priesthood Meeting, and that of Ward Membership at Sacrament Meeting, the percentage is very low in some places. Now sisters, we are not trying to dictate, but we do feel that the mothers of our Church have a very large responsibility for the attendance at Sacrament Meeting. Do you know there are only three Stakes in our Church where one-third of the membership are in meeting?
There are only seven Stakes where one-fourth of the people go to Sacrament Meeting.
There are seventy-six Stakes where less than one-fifth go to meeting.
There are two Stakes where only eleven out of one hundred members go to meeting. Is there anything you can do about this, sisters?
This report made me feel that in some widely scattered communities there might be a justifiable excuse for this neglect of duty, but when I noted what Wards they were, the excuse would not hold, for Salt Lake City, and other larger cities, brought the record down. In some of the remote Stakes, where transportation is a serious problem, there is better attendance. A very active, live Relief Society Stake President called at the office and said her Stake President had asked each 'of the heads of the auxiliary organizations to give five reasons why people are not attending to their religious duties. It might be well for you to take this suggestion home, and find out, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE if your people are not attending, five reasons why they are not.
There has been considerable agitation about the time of closing our meetings at the end of the season. Some Stakes say the people do not come out, they are just tired, while at that same time some others say they have a regular attendance.
Word has gone out that some Stakes have permission to close early. If these Stakes have had permission we now rescind that permission, and place the responsibility directly upon you. We feel that the lessons ' should keep up until well in June. I realize that in some places there are berries to pick and women are busy, but they should not work all the time, they should have some rest. I believe if the Stake Officers and Board Members and Committees would plan something especially desirable and unique, and work a little harder, we could keep our meetings up at least until the season closes. We want to know if you cannot do this, because we would not prepare the lessons if they cannot be given. A stake officer reported the other day that in some of the Wards they could double up the lessons. I think if there is any complaint of our lessons, it is, they are too long. If they are too long for one meeting you certainly could not get anything much of them if you tried to give two lessons in one day.
Formerly we prepared lessons for September, and then women were so busy we did not begin until October, but if the lessons are not appreciated we will just not make quite as many lessons. We are leaving it to you Stake Presidents to say when the meetings close. I would like to thank you dear sisters for coming out this morning, and bringing this beautiful spirit with you. The members of the General Board would like individually to express to you their appreciation for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE your kindness and for your wonderful hospitality when we go out into your Stakes.
Please remember that not any 309 problem is too small, write to us, come and see us. We pray for you and are always interested in hearing from you. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary I" gives me great pleasure to give a very brief summarized statement of the Annual Report for 1935. A detailed report will be mailed to the Stakes and published in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The following summary is given: Total Balance on Hand 'January 1, 1935, $145,744.31; Total Receipts during 1935, $226,257.23; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $372,001.54; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,863.86; Total Disbursements, $219,091.78; Total Balance, December 31, 1935, $152,909.76; Total Assets, $990,284.04; Ward Conferences Held, 1,437; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 994,261; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 228,871.
Membership in 1934, 70,- 515; in 1935, 72,093; an increase of 1,578. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255.
Average attendance 1934, 33,833; 1935, 32,- 335; a decrease of 1,498.
Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1934, $62,- 608.95; 1935, 66,863.86, an increase of $4,254.91. May I take this opportunity of expressing our very great appreciation to the Stake Secretaries.
There have been a number of new ones this year, owing to the reorganizations which have taken place, but on the whole the work of the Secretaries, as demonstrated by the Annual Report, was extremely well done this year.
ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS
During the year 1935 there were a number of changes in the Relief Society organizations throughout the world. A number of new Stakes have been created, and several reorganizations have taken place. It is always with a feeling of love that we note the retirement of those sisters who have been associated in the organization work for so many years, and without exception they have given the best efforts of their lives toward building up the work which is so dear to them. The General Officers, as well as the people of the communities in which they live, join in expressing to those who retire from active service, the utmost gratitude and appreciation. It is always a pleasure to welcome to the group of Stake Presidents those who have been called upon. To accept this responsible position in the communities, and nothing can give greater pleasure than to experience from them the same fine cooperation we have always found in their predecessors. The following is a list of Organizations and Reorganizations as we have them compiled to date: 310
Northern States Artemesia Romney
Appointed President Pearl A. Daynes Mrs. W. Ernest Young Mary P. Howells Appointed President Clara H. Fridal Vera L. Swapp Cornelia S. Lund Blanch Hoglund Vera H. Cloward Edith D. Sellers Camellia Rencher Sophia Meikle Amy B. Towler Appointed President Hannah Ursenbach May G. Hinckley ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake, Oct. 1935
Bonneville (Taken from Liberty) Mission South American Mission Divided: Argentine Brazil REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Feb., 1936
Bear River Margaret W. Manning Oct., 1935
Kanab Bergetta A. Covington Oct., 1935
Liberty Amy P. Romney Feb., 1936
Los Angeles Laura P. Hotaling ~ Oct. 1935
Nebo ~? Mary P. Harding Dec., 1935
Sacramento Olive Lindblad Nov., 1935 St. Johns Josephine A. Patterson Mar., 1936
Teton Eve L. Engberson Mar., 1936
Wells Marie H. Tanner French Ruth L. Lang RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CHURCH STANDARDS Donna D. Sorensen, Member of the General Board WO evils are constantly beckoning to all people and to young people especially and these are the evils of liquor and tobacco. The standards of the Church have been and are that inasmuch as these things are not good for man we totally abstain from them. We recognize that no one at the time of their first indulgence in tobacco and liquor intends to become habituated but it is the nature of these evils to enslave and so in "total abstinence" alone is there safety. Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. Is our safeguard which helps us to distinguish between that which might have a tendency to become an accepted social custom and that which we should avoid because of the admonition of the Lord.
There are numbers in the Relief Society today who have no remembrance of the corner saloons and the broken homes resulting from drink.
Never before has a generation of young people so free from the spectacular pictures of drunken men on the street and drink cursed homes been brought so suddenly into easy contact with alcoholic drink.
What is the answer? The old-fashioned appeal of being good for goodness' sake alone is not a workable one today I feel. We must meet the inevitable "why" of the youth with a background of science and education based on the needs of public health, safety, and all-round daily living. We must build not alone on a foundation of abstract morals but of morals based upon scientific information and social experience. We must counteract the deluge of Mission Released RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE pseudo-scientific advertising in newspapers, radio and magazines by a sound knowledge of the truth. It has been said that one generation never learns from preceding generations.
This should not be true of Latter-day Saints because the truth as revealed to us by the word of God is constant and remains still truth for each generation. We should pray for faith that we may accept without reservation the word of our Father. Do we have and can we develop faith to go hand in hand with scientific knowledge to fortify us? We must not only have the facts in our heads concerning the harmfulness of these evils but we must have also a living principle in our hearts. The fight against these evils must 311 first of all be an individual fight but if it remains just an individual fight it can not be as successful as when we have.
Organized activity. The women of Relief Society must band together in their stakes and communities to uphold the standards of this Church. It is right and logical that this society should be to the forefront in these matters for who has ever been more concerned for the youth of the land than the mothers who gave to youth their very life? The Lord calls to us to "keep the faith, to carry on the deeds, to hold the spirit, the courage, the integrity of the pioneers."
Will you answer that call equipped with the clear eye of knowledge and the heart full of faith in His word? THE VALUE OF CAREFUL PLANNING Achsa E. Paxman, President Utah Stake Relief Society "THE value of planning is important in every phase of life. One of its virtues is that it stimulates preparation; preparation gives information and confidence, and if you have confidence in yourself to perform that work, better results will follow. One may get by without planning ahead, but meeting the problems as they arise brings worry and lack of confidence.
Preparation is needed in both spiritual and temporal work. Officers, class leaders, welfare workers, visiting teachers, and all workers, if efficiently performing their calling, prepare and plan. To magnify our calling, planning is essential.
Business magazine records: "No man ever got nervous prostration pushing his business; you get it only when the business pushes you."
Early preparations and plans will help in avoiding worry, strain, confusion and failures.
Reading the Relief Society Magazine, the Handbook, and other instructions, and planning for conferences, socials, membership and magazine drives, brings such satisfactory results that compensation for the forethought is fully rewarded. It is careful planning and not hasty preparations that will make a prosperous and happy Relief Society. The things we pay for in advance we get at greatest profit. To get the greatest profit out of Relief Society, we must pay in advance by planning ahead. Any business that is carried on in a business-like manner is always budgeted, not only for its finances but also for conserving time. An architect never builds without plans and knows exactly what the finished building will be because of his careful planning. The mother who knows early in the day what the dinner menu will be has a better planned meal.
Budgeting the family income and planning all household 312 duties secures ample means and time.
Stake workers should plan a schedule or tentative program for the year and great benefits will-also come to the ward officers who make yearly, monthly and weekly plans.
This combined with the monthly Union Meeting discussions and instructions will make: the wheels of Relief Society revolve perfectly and will give joy and progression to all. A story is told that when the radio was introduced the ear expressed itself as being the most important part of the face. However, the eyes, and mouth proved their importance, for without them radio programs could not be produced.
Every officer and all departments are important, and each must prove its importance by planning and cooperating to make one grand general plan. The Washington Monument is one-third under ground. The preparation not seen is probably the hardest part.
Some stakes prepare a printed program, outlining the events that take place each month during the year with suggestions and reminders that will be helpful to each Relief Society organization. In Utah Stake a yearly report is given each ward at the close of the year including the following items: Number of families in Ward; Ward Relief Society enrollment; % of families of ward enrolled; Average attendance of enrolled members; % of membership attending; Number of Magazines taken by members; % of enrollment taking the Magazine.
With this comparative report of all wards, each one is able to see its weak and strong points and build according to its needs. A monthly check on some of the previous items is also given besides including the following: Number reading the
Relief Society Magazine; % of teachers' visits and talking the topic; and number prepared or having read the lesson for the day. To increase membership and attendance of members, a membership committee checks on all absentees after three times consecutive absence.
They also invite new members to join the Relief Society and especially try to interest young mothers in joining. Magazine Drives well planned by the stake is "First Aid" to the ward agents. Suggestive Social Activities may be planned for the year and details worked out as the scheduled month arrives.
Plan play and diversion.
Play is an important part in education.
Early in the year, know the date of your Ward Relief Society Conference and prepare the program to be used early enough for the ward to make a fine presentation. Anniversary Day plans: Planning for obtaining 100% membership dues; 100% teachers' visits and talking the topic; plans for better class leadership and getting members to read the lessons, so that better class participation will result; definite procedure plans of your meetings so that your reception committee is at their post, new members are made acquainted and welcome, preliminary music, songs that correlate with the theme of the day, time budgeted so that the ones who present the lesson have ample time and also limit themselves to their portion of the time; and last but not of least importance, prepare yourselves so that the spirit of love and prayer abides in your heart, for the spirit of good will and harmony is indispensable to every meeting. We must not become discouraged if we cannot acquire the results we should desire with the interferences RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE that are prevalent. We must be cognizant of the fact, however, that careful planning will lessen interferences and help toward perfection. It is the devoted artist, the one who thinks and feels and works that.
Produces the masterpiece. Planning, seeking spiritual guidance and working will make your Relief Society a masterpiece. SISTER FLORA R. HICKS, of the Maricopa Stake, was called from the congregation to tell of the work in the Papago Ward, to which she and her husband have been called. Sister Hicks discussed most delightfully, the work among our Lamanite sisters. She related their needs, their hopes, their plans.
These comprehend the extensive improvement of their temporal environment, and the lifting of the whole plane of life to higher ideals of social and spiritual betterment.
313 DEPARTMENT MEETINGS SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Chairman AN enthusiastic Department Meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, on Thursday afternoon, April 2, 1936. The address of Judge Hugo B. Anderson, explaining the underlying principles of the Federal Social Security Program as it operates in the Western States, will be published in full in the June issue of the Relief Society Magazine. How the plan functions in three representative Western States was presented by Alice H. Osborn, of the Los Angeles Welfare Department, for California; for Arizona, by Lenore S. Rogers, President of the Snowflake Stake Relief Society; and for Idaho, by Amy J. Hawkes, President of the Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Emeline Y.
