[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: QUESTION. | Author: MRS. L. S. DICKINSON]

		QUESTION.

	BY MRS. L. S. DICKINSON.
	GREECE, whose name is rich in past
glories, has gone down in defeat on ac-
count of the inefficiency of her leaders, and
the overwhelming number of her enemy.
Other nations have looked on and smiled
because the loss was not their own, but
here and there throughout the world, are
men and women whose hearts have gone
out in sympathy toward the little country
in southern Europe, whose inhabitants
number less than a million people that
belonged originally to a race of men whose
deeds of bravery and loyalty have been
acknowledged by the gods of war, and
placed upon the pinnacle of fame from
where the light of their patriotism has
shone the world over, and will continue to
shine till time is no more.
	Greece is celebrated in the history of
freedom, of literature, art, philosophy and

[Column 2]
civilization generally, has fought for hearth-
stone as well as her religion, since the first
pages of European history were turned.
	Though two thousand or more years
have passed since the Golden Age, we are
refered more than we realize to the glories
of that time and people.
	If we look for some especially beautiful
piece of sculpture, we will be refered to
the work of some Greek artist. If we hear
of some remarkably beautiful woman,
we will perchance hear that she has Grecian
features. If we listen to a scientific sermon
or lecture, we will hear of the greatness of
some Greek poet or philosopher whose
voice is still heard in the halls of modern
learning.
	Greece is truly "the home of the poet
and the sculptor,” and her lamp of learn-
ing has indeed kindled an exalted admira-
tion in the hearts of the sons and daughters
of all civilized nations, for the heroes who
have left to their descendants names that
were “not born to die,” but to live on in
the memories of those that may follow on
for generations to come. For it was there,
in the land of Greece, through the bravery
and intelligence of those same heroes, that
political freedom for man was attained for
the first time in the history of the world.
	The glories of Greece never waned until
her government was wrested from her and
placed in the power of a nation whose every
thought and act was contrary to her own,
then the cloud of sorrow and despair set-
tled over her people, robbing them of the
power to maintain the standard of civiliza-
tion their fathers had established.
	The Greeks for hundreds of years have
believed that when a Constantine should
once more be united in marriage to a
daughter of Hellas by the name of Sophia,
it would be a day of rejoicing for Greece,
for she would then be in possession of Con-
stantinople once more and Prince Constan-
tine, Commander in Chief of the Greek
forces, being married to Sophia, a true
daughter of Hellas at the present time,
might, or might not have had some effect
upon the enthusiasm of the irregular band
of impatient but patriotic Greeks who
unfortunately precipitated the Greco-
Turkish war of 1897, before the Greek
Government was prepared for the struggle.
	In 1822 the Greeks rebelled against the
Turkish rule and after a fierce war in
which the Greek leaders made themselves
famous for all time by the brave and fear-
less manner in which they led their little
army against every conceivable disadvan-
tage on to victory, they recaptured cer-
tain parts of Grecian territory which are now
known as Modern Greece, whose literature
is still in its infancy and whose people have
been slow to regain their natural inherit-
ance of independence, as well as being
dilatory in trying to better their condition,
on account of their not having thoroughly
rallied from the depressing effect of Turk-
ish rule to which they were so long sub-
jected.
	Naturally, the Greek people were Platon-
ic in their love affairs and are sensitive in
the extreme, possessing the capacity to en-

[Column 3]
dure great suffering or great joy. They
have very weird imaginations and are
easily discouraged, and just as easily in-
spired by the din of battle and are willing
to follow a brave leader in whom they have
confidence into the very jaws of death.
When the news of the certainty of a
Greco-Turkish war reached this country
there was both fear and hope in every
home in the land where Greek history was
understood. Each heart trembled for fear
the Mother Land of political freedom
would go down in defeat on account of
her comparatively defenceless condition in
not being prepared for a great military con-
flict.
	The one hope common to every liberty
loving heart was that Greece, the one
country that had taught all other nations
their first lessons in intellectual develop-
ment, might conquer the people whose his-
tory is one of massacre and bloodshed,
whose very name is a disgrace to the world. 
	Had King George been of strong mili-
tary ability himself and possessed less con-
fidence in some of his personal friends and
in his son, Prince Constantine, whose
courage seemed to have vanished ere the
war began, there would have been a dif-
ferent story for the Greek sympathizers to
tell; but whatever the other faults of King
George might have been, his greatest
enemies must of a necessity give him credit
for the prompt manner in which he re-
sponded to the cry for help that came from
distressed Cretes when the brutal Turks
began their massacre on the island.
	Though King George was deficient in
the ability to command a great army, he
deserves commendation for the stand he
took in behalf of humanity; for when the
Powers continually threatened Greece with
coercion if he did not withdraw his troops
from Crete, he answered, “Greece knows
she must be victorious or disappear; we
know that all the Powers are more or less
against us, but a great wrong has been
committed against right and humanity in
the Cretan question, and the chastisement
has commenced.”
	The thoughtful lovers of justice will al-
ways honor the King of Greece for defend-
ing his countrymen and fellow Christians
as he did, by refusing to withdraw his
troops from Crete and leave the field in
possession of the Turk for he knew full
well if he did so the people would be
massacred, the island destroyed and turned
over to anarchy and ruin.
	It cannot be said of the Greek soldiers
that they were not good or willing fighters,
for even the Turks have given them that
credit, and when they have been ordered to
retreat on account of the bad management
of the officers in command, they have fallen
back with tears of vexation in their eyes
and curses upon their lips.
	What could have shown their loyalty
any more than the ready manner in which
they gave up their money, their homes and
their loved ones in this and other countries
and went to the rescue of their own country,
and to certain death, for they must have
known that when their ships sailed beyond


[Column 1]
the peaceful bars of their adopted countries
there would be no returning for them, un-
less the fickle Goddess of chance chose to
bestow her smiles upon them.
	What could teach the natural bravery of
the Greeks more than the voluntary ser-
vices of their men who have made their
homes in a land of plenty and reared their
families under the Star Spangled Banner.
Men who have learned to love and appreci-
ate freedom in all that the word implies,
and have given up all and gone to die if
need be for their mother land. The old
flag that is so dear to every American heart
has taken upon itself new glories for the
hundreds of brave men who have sailed to
Greece under its protection, for many of
those men while fighting for their own
native land have gone to their death loving
the flag of their adopted country, where
they have left all that is dear to them ex- 
cept their love and veneration for the
Fatherland. People are rather apt to cen-
sure the weak side of any contest without
a proper appreciation of the circumstances
surrounding the case. They will, so soon
as the one side has suffered defeat, immedi-
ately jump to the conclusion that something
has been done or left undone that might
have won for them the victory. Such
criticisms have been made of Greece, 
whereas the greatest possible amount of
praise should be unhesitatingly bestowed
upon her for having the courage to resent
a wrong and go to war in behalf of justice
and right, with a people whose army was
well equipped and well officered, was
drilled, advised and upheld by the Powers
of Europe and largely outnumbered the
Greek forces.
	Had it been the good fortune of Greece
to have conquered her Turkish enemy,
whose men deem it a pleasure as well as an
honor to rush into instant death because
their religion teaches them that beyond the
grave there is for them “ A Paradise where
sensual pleasures shall know no satiety.”
She would have bestowed a priceless favor
on the civilized world and gained for her-
self new glories that would have marked
the beginning of a new and brighter era for
her people But fate willed it otherwise
and the Powers had their way, and the
money Kings of Europe were saved, for the
time being at least.
	Thessaly not being recaptured by the
Greeks in the war of 1822 and 1823 but
ceded to her by the Turks in 1881, has
caused more or less dissatisfaction among
the Turkish people and that, coupled with
their late victory, has undoubtedly caused
the arrogant Sultan to demand the annex-
ation of Thessaly to Turkey as part pay-
ment of the indemnity more than his love
of adding to Turkish Territory.
	The Greek women as well as the men
are very enthusiastic and often take part
in the wars of their country, but if all re-
ports are true they have excelled them-
selves in the present conflict, as more then
one of the unspeakable Turks have fallen
by the hand of women. France, Brazil
Cuba and Greece have all had their Joan of
Arc, but Greece perhaps has possessed the
greater number of women who have taken
an  active part in the war.
	Evidently there are but few people in
Greece at the present time outside of the
army, as Miss Helene Eliopouloy, a Greek
maiden who recently emigrated to this
country, says that she has a father, three
uncles, three brothers-in-law and twenty-

[Column 2]
seven cousins in the Greek army, and that
she knew of seven Greek girls who entered
the army and each of them have now risen
to the rank of captain. Miss Clara Barton
expressed the sentiment of hundreds of
liberty-loving people in this country when
she, in answer to a communication from the
president of the Greek National League,
telegraphed the following message: “ Will
be very glad to co-operate in any way we
can. How can we best aid the cause?”
Queen Olga, the wife of King George, is a
true Greek who loves her country and is
in full sympathy with her people and their
cause. but unfortunately she places too
much confidence in the military ability of
her husband. She possesses great personal
charms and is highly accomplished, and
her most intimate friend is an American
lady who was born in Washington D. C.
	A patroitic person scarcely finds it pos-
sible to imagine any but a true and brave
Greek occupying King George’s apartments
in the old palace at Athens that was built
in the time of King Otho, for they are dec-
orated with the soul-stirring scenes of the
wars of liberation, and the tattered and
blood stained flags that were captured at
those same wars.
	A true Greek never gets so far from his
native land, so rich or so poor, but he re-
members to send home his remittance to aid
in establishing institutions of learning for
the rising generations of Greece. The
Athens University is a magnificent struc-
ture, and was built principally by contribu-
tions from exiled Greeks, and for this
reason it is called the National University.
	The men and women who have lived a
lifetime of freedom and plenty, would not
be so ready to condemn the Modern Greek
for his want of progress if they would but
put themselves in the Greeks place and
imagine, if possible, the state of affairs in
the land of Greece, when she has freed
herself by a fierce and bloody struggle from
her four centuries of bondage to a Turkish
ruler. Now that she has suffered new losses,
acknowledged her poverty and accepted
defeat, there will be those who will smile
in derision at the results achieved, but
there will always be those who will have a
tender reverence for, and proper apprecia- 
tion of the people who sanctified the altar
of liberty by the shedding of Christian
blood hundreds of years before our own
beautiful land of freedom, was dreamed of,
and they would be glad to join in the shout
‘‘Down with the Turk;” but that may
never be, for Christian Europe is so far
divided, and in division there is no strength.
It is the dream of France to possess Greece,
and England desires Egypt as the British
highway to India, and each of the other
powers have some covetous design that
seems to preclude the union that is neces-
sary to vanquish the power of the Sultan;
beside the money power in Europe as well
elsewhere, demands its share of attention
in diplomatic circles, and the bond holder
must have his dividend, though he be paid
in money stained in Christian blood.
	Sooner or later there must come a des-
perate struggle for supremacy between the
great powers of Continental Europe in
which England must also become involved,
and when the smoke of battle clears, it
will be found that the map of Europe has
been changed and that Turkey has been
divided among the so called Christian
nations.

[Column 3]			
