TO THE GIRLS.

	If I may be permitted to do so I would like
through the medium of our valuable paper, to
say a few words to the daughters, my sisters, in
Zion.
	The Lord has stirctly commanded His people
to follow Him, and He has from time to time
delivered His will and given His commands to
them through His servants, and at no time
have those who have been faithful in keeping
these commandments failed to receive His
promised blessings. He has called upon His
people to come out from Babylon and throw off
her yoke by ridding themselves of her foolish
customs and evil ways. By adhering to these
commands the Saints have become a blessed
people, one that the whole world envy because
of their blessings; they are envied and hated
because of the strength and unity which their
lives of meekness, humbleness and purity have
given them. The expressed will and desire of
our Heavenly Father is, that the daughters of
Zion shall live lives of purity and virtue, and
that they shall have the fear of God continu-
ally in their hearts, that thereby they may cul-
tivate a love for those principles by which they
are to be the honored instruments in helping to
redeem the world from the awful sin that has
emanated from Babylon and is oppressing their
kind, and holding virtue and innocence as in a
chain of iron. The love that God bears the
daughters of Zion, and the dislike He has for
the abominations of Babylon is manifest in
this, that He commands the former to not pat-
tern after the latter in any way; tells them not

[Column 2]
to go after them in their ways at all; thus indi-
cating that He will appoint the way of His
people in everything.
	Now the world would have us believe that
this is servility to be dictated by the voice of
the Lord, and many people, through the
promptings of Satan, cry out to us of danger
to frighten us, so that we may fall from that
rock upon which our kind Father has in His
mercy so firmly placed us, and that we may
not, as silly children, be tempted to leave this
rock of safety, He commands us to cut assun-
der every tie that binds us to the outside world
that we may be entirely free from it.
	Now we know that our Father is displeased
when He sees His daughters, the "fair ones of
Israel," upon whom he has bestowed such ten-
der care and upon whom He delights to bes-
tow His most choice blessings, aping the fash-
ions and following the customs of heathen
Christendom, and one of the many foolish ones
of the latter is the boring or piercing of the
ears for the purpose of suspending an ear-ring
therein, which ancient and heathenish custom
it is to be regretted, has not yet been laid aside
by many of the women of Zion, The Prophet
Isaiah in mentioning the abominations for
which the daughters of Zion should be con-
demned by the Lord numbers among them the
ear-jewel, or ear-ring, and says that He, the
Lord, will take them away with a sore cursing.
Now we know that He cannot look with pleas-
ure on the act of wilfully mutilating our bod-
ies in this manner. Therefore I cannot see how
parents can excuse themselves into willingly
allow their daughters to inflict upon their bod-
ies this injustice. The extreme folly of this
custom was first impressed upon my mind by a
saying of a very wise girl a few years ago:
	When she was thirteen years old her father
bought a beautiful pair of ear-rings as a birth-
day gift for her; when he presented them to
her she took them and said: "Oh, pa! how I
should love to wear these beautiful things be-
cause they are a gift from you; but you see I
cannot unless I might be allowed to wear them
fastened to strings tied round my ears, for
there are no holes in my ears for them you see."
"Why, my child," said her father, "are you not
brave enough to have your ears pierced for
them?" "No," she said, "I should not like to
have holes put in my ears unless I knew they
would grow up again before I die; and I don't
think they would do that." In answer to her
father's question as to why she would not like
to have holes in her ears when she died, she
said, "If, when our bodies are resurrected, they
are just as they were when we laid them down,
I, if I have holes in my ears when I am bur-
ied, will also have them there when I am res-
urrected; and if our Father should ask me
there why I had this mark or brand on my
ears, I should be so ashamed to confess to Him
that I had it put there for the purpose of
wearing an ear-ring; and pa, I think He would
blame me for defacing the body which He gave
me. I think if the Lord wished me to wear
ear-rings He would have put holes in my ears
for that purpose." The father was convinced
and acknowledged the correctness of his little
daughter's judgment. A present of a book
was substituted in place of the ear-rings, and
at this time the little girl, now a woman grown,
is still a firm advocate of those principles
which animated her when a child to stand to
truth and reason.
	I think if the parents of the children of the
Latter-day Saints would think seriously upon
this subject they would endeavor to dissuade
their daughters from following this long time
custom of mutilating their bodies in this man-
ner, for believe me the time will come when
every woman who carries this mark in her ears
will be ashamed to confess that it is the brand
showing to what extent she was subject to the
pride and vanity that was upon the earth while

[Column 3]
she was tabernacled there. A love of the beau-
tiful and ornamental is natural to most women,
and it is right they should make themselves
neat and attractive when it can be done with-
out infringing upon nature, but it is not right
for us to deface or change in any way the work
of our Creator in the human system. We can-
not in any way make better what He has form-
ed.
	It is to be earnestly hoped that the many
plans for reform in dress and customs that
have been given our young may be improved
upon in Zion until there may not be one found
who bears the impress of the style of Babylon.
									M.


