MEDITATIONS.

	It appears by the signs of the times that the
Lord's words are to be verified, for He has
said His people would be a tried people; they
should be hated by all nations, driven and per-
secuted. Still He has said, "Blessed are you
when men shall revile you, and persecute you
for my sake." The Lord in these last days has
seen fit to restore His Priesthood to the earth
through His servant, Joseph Smith, and we
are happy recipients of the same. Now it
stands us in hand to be alive to the duties de-
volving upon us, and not swerve to the right
nor to the left, but struggle nobly on to the
great end it is our aim to reach. What does
it matter to us if we are up to the line of our
duties if our enemies do howl? We fear them
not; our minds can be at rest, we know (not be-
lieve) the Lord will protect us; the devil and
his imps have a mission to perform, and they
have but a short time to do it in, it therefore
behooves him to get as many to assist him as
possible, and it looks as though he was having
but little trouble to get plenty to work for him
for little wages and board themselves; they
know not the trouble they are bringing upon
their own heads! How plainly the Lord
shows He is no respector of persons, for He
commands His servants to go preach the Gos-
pel to every nation, kindred, tongue and peo-
ple. Is it then any fault of His if at the last
day they will be as stubble, and be burned?
They will find when it is too late they have in-
jured themselves and no one else. They are
only preparing themselves for speedy destruc-
tion; for "vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and He gives us very comfort-
ing words in Hebrews xiii, 5; there He says,
"I will never forsake thee." Then wake, O ye
slumbering nations, awake from the slumber of
death ere it be too late; arouse yourselves from
the great lethargy you have fallen into, ere
the vengeance of God come upon you. Oh, ye
ministers of modern Christendom, ye enemies
of new revelation! how can ye escape damna-
tion? How many good, honest-hearted people
you have deceived by your cunning craftiness
and lying hypocrisies. How many millions
would have called on God in faith for revela-
tions, prophecies, visions, and the ministry of
angels, and received those precious blessings,
had it not been for the wicked and soul-des-
troying errors which you have instilled in their
ears by telling them that these things were re-
pealed and done away. Repent, therefore, of
this great wickedness and be baptised for the
remission of your sins and you shall receive
the gift of the Holy Ghost, which shall give
you visions and revelations, and shall show you
things to come; and except you do this the
wrath and indignation of that being against
whom you have labored shall speedily over-
take you, and you shall perish from off the
earth. "Repent, therefore, quickly that you may
find mercy."						J. E. C.


There is not a moment without some duty.—
Cicero.


