LITERARY WOMEN.

	Yes, my dear madame, literary women are
possessed of as much sensibility as yourself.
Their feelings are quite as easily ruffled as your
own. Strange, isn't it?
	I smile sometimes when I compare those
poor, offending creatures called literary women
in our smaller towns and settlements to the
deeply dyed blues of the Eastern and Middle
States. Perhaps the literary women of our
towns never soared higher than Dickens or
Robbie Burns; but if she feels there is some-
thing higher and better than "Dora Share,"
and "Sunshine and Shadow," along with Frank
Leslie's and Godey's Magazine, and writes a
few words occasionally for our bright little
EXPONENT behold her tainted with a pitiful

[Column 2]
stain; her sisters think of her with a mixture
of contempt and envy, and as they raise their
hands and eyes, exclaim energetically, "Thank
heaven we are not literary."
	A number of persons were speaking one
evening about a young girl who was shortly to
be married. Some one asked a question about
her, to which an ignorant woman replied, "Oh,
she is ever so industrious and smart, sews and
cooks, isn't a bit literary, is a good housekeep-
er and in fact, you know, she's just the kind of
a woman for a good wife." Humph! I was
not to blame if my lip went up and my eyelids
down.
	You must know the truth is these Pariah's
of society (like myself) have always known
that while their associates looked down upon
them and spoke sneeringly of them, they were
their superiors mentally. But I think, too, like
Carlyle's Sandy Mc.Phearson, the associates
can never be made to understand this solemn
fact; and—that's where the shoe pinches (oh,
excuse the slang.
	But I'd just like to tell these people what
the term, "literary woman," means, in Utah, at
least. It means a woman who has read a lit-
-tle and don't give herself up to such supersti-
tions folly as giving fried mice to children with
the whooping cough, and who struggles brave-
ly against broken looking glasses and over
turned salt. It means women who are home-
makers and not merely house-keepers. It
means women who have worked early and late
for the little information they have gathered,
and whose days are full and pressed over with
the large measure of usefulness and labor. It
means women who strive to copy the grand ex-
ample of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the wo-
man who for over fifty long years, ever since
she joined this Church has washed her apparel,
made and mended her clothes, for many years
has done all her own house work unaided, and
does so now; has walked silently and nobly a-
broad among the people night and day, carry-
ing aloft the bright candle of intelligence which
shone in vision at her girlish bedside, has read,
studied, written, edited and sang some of the
greatest and most enduring things in the king-
dom; who is in every sense of the word, a "lit-
erary woman," and is, too, a marvelous house-
keeper, exquisitely neat in every thing, and a
mother to thousands of Israel's daughters and
children.
	The term includes women who mind their
own business, and never have time to pick up
their bonnet and run over to the neighbor's
house to tell and be told everybody's business,
and to say anything but their prayers. It
means women who are first in the great march
of improvement and reform. Women who are
their husband's mates and helpers, not servants
and dependents. Women who love Mormon-
ism for its grandeur and purity, because they
know its sublime worth. It means women un-
married, that know too well the value of time
to waste it on paltry novels and paint and
bangs, but that elevate their own beings, lifting
up their associates insensibly to the highest
and noblest of aims. It means women who
look with contempt on the readers of Ledgers,
Saturday Nights and Firseside Companions,
but who earnestly strive to induce a taste for
that which is pure and ennobling.
	And, oh, it means women with oceans of
faults, but with a steadfast determination to
overcome as fast as may be, humbly silently
and prayerfully, the stumblingblocks in them-
selves; it means women who often have no time
to crochet tidies or scour out the chinks with a
tooth brush, but who always have time to cheer
fully assist husband or child; it means women
with hearts, brains and wills; but, oh gracious,
it can never mean—lazy women.


