BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Tuesday, 23rd," Peter continues, "cold,
windy and rainy to-day—Brother Joseph Toron-
to, the only Italian in the Church, made
mother (Vilate Kimball) a present of some
oranges, lemons and wine; he had come from
the city of Joseph, Nauvoo, in nine days.
Helen has been quite sick, but is getting well.
It being still cold and rainy on the 24th we
were glad to make use of a stove in the tent.
Bro K. is writing a letter to Nauvoo—called
this place Heber's rest."
	Thursday, 25th. News was received from
the "Society Islands" of branches being built
up, and that the queen and all the heirs to the
crown had been baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	The 26th. A council was held, and next
day, Saturday, father and President Young
went back three miles. While gone they visit-
ed fourteen camps of the Saints. The same
day men were sent ten miles to build a bridge,
that those returning from trading in the Platt
Co. could thus save fifteen miles journey; and
on the 29th two men with six yoke of oxen
were sent to meet and assist them.
	"Sunday 28," Peter continues, "meeting held
at our largest tent this morning, a large num-
ber of Bro. Kimball's family being present,
and some others. He preached to them, ex-
horting them to love one another, with a great
deal of other good advise. The sacrament
was then administered and the meeting closed.
Bro. Kimball then went to public meeting,
which was opened by prayer by O. Hyde. B.
Young then spoke at some length; spoke of the
necessity of guarding our sheep from the
wolves."
	Thursday, 30th. The camps commenced
moving back to the old camping ground on
the river; Peter says the reason for this was
that the Twelve had received intelligence that
four officers had come from Fort Leavensworth
to Mt. Pisgah, and were now on the way to re-
quest us to let our able bodied young men en-
list and go to Santa Fee to fight against the
Mexicans, and then go to Calfornia to get a
location for the rest of the "Mormons" in re-
muneration for their services, and says, "After
we had started to-day a messenger came up to
tell us that the said officers had arrived at the
camp on the hill."
	"Wednesday, July 1st. This morning the
Presidency went to the Bluffs to see said offi-
cers, Council was held and the request to raise
500 volunteers from among us, taken into con-
sideration.	*	*	If they could
not raise that number they did not want any.
The Presidency agreed to do it on condition
that the people were willling."
	"In the afternoon father came back," Peter
says, "and started to cross the river, but on
getting to the ferry we could not cross, so went
back ¾ of a mile and encamped on a small ele-
vation of ground under the beautiful shade of
an old elm tree.	*	*	*	Col.
Scott and Dr. Willard Richards are camped
here with us." The mosquitoes being so
troublesome near the river obliged us to move
back, and as we were far from water the ac-
cordingly dug a well close by.
	As it was nearly dusk when they concluded
to move from the river, and being very weary,
I, with one or two others, had accepted an in-
vitation from the chief's daughter to accom-
pany her home; and when returning, finding
the wagons gone and not feeling strong, she
urged me to return and stop the night, which
invitation I accepted, though I spent a some-
what nervous and wakeful night, but when
morning came I felt more at ease. I learned
that her parents had separated, as her mother

[Column 2]
was now living with her and did most of the
work. Though dressed in her native costume
she looked neat, and kept the house tidy, and
could cook equal to the white women. This
was quite a wood country, which abounded
in blackberries and other wild fruit, and as
they were getting ripe we went out in the morn-
ing and picked what we wanted to eat, after
which she showed her taste and skill in braid-
ing my hair in broad plats, after the latest
French style, and put it up a la mode, and af-
ter dinner accompanied me to camp. While
stopping at this place I went, by invitation,
with one or two of my father's young wives, to
take tea with the wife of the interpreter, who
gave us a little of the history, not only of the
chief and his daughter, but of the Indian
tribes the Sioux and Pottawatomies, who were
at war with each other. And it was only the
evening of the 6th that a Pottawatomie Indian
came to our camp on horse back, bringing a
message, which he could only make known by
signs. The import of it was that the Sioux
Indians had killed a Pottawatomie, and he
wanted our people to assist them in fighting
the Sioux, and thus revenge their comrad's
death.
	On the morning of the 3rd father and Presi-
dent B. Young started for Mt. Pisgah on the
recruting business. When the news first came
to us of the war between the United States and
Mexico we little dreamed of the requirement
that the government were about to make at
our hands, and congratulated ourselves that
being expelled from their midst we should
travel undisturbed beyond the Rocky Moun-
tains, where we should hear no more conten-
tions, turmoils and strife, and we had cause to
look upon this demand with suspicion, especial-
ly after the threat which was thrown out in the
letter received from Sam Brannan just previ-
ous to starting on our journey. But our peo-
ple proved their loyalty by kissing the hand
that had driven them into the wilderness,
where it was hoped, by the majority, we should
utterly perish, and it was thought that by tak-
ing from us 500 of our young, able bodied
men in that Indian country that it would
cripple us so much that it would insure our
utter destruction; but there a few honorable
men like Colonel Thomas L. Kane, who, like
true-hearted countrymen, rendered all the as-
sistance that was possible to the Saints in this,
their most trying hour.


