PRIMARY MEETING.
	Fist Semi Annual meeting of the Fifth
Ward Primary Association since its organiza-
tion, held April 30th 1884, in the Fifth Ward
school house, Sister E. Clarke, President, pres-
iding.  There were on the stand, the President
and her Counselors, the Bishop of the ward,
Brother Clarke and Brother          ; also Sisters
E. S. Clawson, P. L. Kimball, E. B. Fergu-
son and E. Howard, visitors.  There were about
100 children present, and many of the parents.
Opened by singing "In our Lovely Deseret,"
prayer by Bishop Brimley, singing, "Beautiful
Day."  Roll called and minutes read by the
Secretary.
	President Clarke made a few remarks, intro-
ducing the following programme: Dialogue by
Allie Buchanan and Beatrice Ricketts; Recita-
tion by Allie Cowan; Song by  E. Pettit; Song by
the children, "Dare to do Right;" Organ solo,
lizzie Marsden; Duet by Maggie and Berthinia
Simpson; Reading by Edwin pettit; Song by
the children, "Only an Armor-bearer;" Recita-
tion by Willie Brimley; Reading from the Bi-
ble by George Luker; Dialogue by Janet Free-
bairn and Clara Gilby; Duet by Lizzie Brown
and Lizzie Marsden; Duet by Lizzie Palmer
and Emily Durrens.  Report for the half year
ending March 22nd, 1884, read by the Secre-
tary.
	Remarks by Sister Clawson; was much
pleased with the conduct and doings of the
children; felt gratified at the excellent pro-
gramme, and thought the parents must feel
pleased at hearing the little ones speak up so
nicely and repeat their pieces so correctly--
thought the little missionaries had done well in
going round the ward to gather donations in
order to purchase books-- the children had
gathered $6.75 for that purpose.  If you do not
need all the money now for books, you will find
it nice to have some in the treasury.  Prayed
God would bless them with health and wis-
dom, and also their President and her Coun-
selors.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball said she was
much gratified to meet with these dear child-
ren.  Hoped they would remember the Jesus
said "suffer little children to come unto me."
Thought the children looked happy, as if they
enjoyed the Spirit of God. Told the children
to be honest, truthful, kind to the aged, helpful
to their parents, and obedient to their presi-
dent.  Spoke on the word of wisdom--that
she had kept it even when she was not a Mor-
mon.  Hoped the children would keep the
Word of Wisdom and grow in grace and in
wisdom that they might please God and do
much good in the world.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt pleased
to meet with the children of the Fifth Ward P.
A. again, and thought they had made a great im-
provement since her last visit; hoped they
would continue to improve every week until
they were as perfect as they could be in the
flesh.  Thought the children of this day and
age were greatly blessed in having the fulness
of the everlasting Gospel preached to them.
Asked if they knew who was the first Prophet
in this last dispensation.  Answer, Joseph
Smith. Told them that Sister Kimball who
had just spoken to them was his wife, and had
heard him preach and teach the things of the
kingdom of God while he was living here on
earth.  Asked the children if they remembered
the revelation God gave for children.  Answer,
Honor thy father and thy mother.  Hoped the
children would remember that this command-
ment was given unto them, and endeavor to
keep it that they might recieve the fulfilment
of the promise and recieve a celestial inheri-
tance in the Kingdom of God.
	Sister E. Howard said this was the second
time that she had met with the children of this


Association; saw great improvement in their or-
der and pieces since her last visit. Was glad
to hear the children speak up so loud that ev-
eryone could hear. Wanted the children al-
ways to lift up their hearts to God that He
would bless them in all they endeavored to do.
When they rise in the morning, when they go
to school, when they are at play, say in their 
hearts, "Father, bless me." Hoped the children
would cultivate order and punctuality; when
they are in meeting pay attention to the speak-
er and don't turn their heads around to look at
everybody coming in. Hoped the children
would not be revengeful, but do good for evil.
Was pleased to hear the boys sing as well as the
girls. Prayed that God would bless them all.
	Bishop Brimley said he was pleased with the 
order and also with the programme, though it 
was a little lengthy. Suggested that it would
be very nice for the same programme to be pre-
sented some Sunday evening that the adults of 
the whole ward might become acquainted with
the P.A. Said he received the Gospel from
Brother Heber C. Kimball, and when he
thought of the joy with which he used to hear
the Elders speak he had many sweet reflec-
tions. Felt to bless the children, and all who
took and interest in the youth of Zion.
	President Clarke said that the meeting had
been rather lengthy, but she felt to thank the
sisters for coming. Was proud of the children
and hoped that all who thought that the child-
ren in the P. A. did not learn anything would
come to one meeting then she thought they
would change their minds.
	Programme for next meeting read by secre-
tary. Meeting adjourned for six months, to
October 29th, 1884. Singing, "Hope of Isra-
el." Dismissed by Brother Clark.
