TWO GREAT POWERS.

	Is it a reality that there are two great pow-
ers in the land, called good and evil? If you
ask the young people this question the reply
very often is, "I do not realize any great power
aside from that we hold within ourselves to do
good or evil just as we choose to do." Yes, we
have this power also, our own agency, but
what inspires our acts and propels our ener-
gies? The answer is, circumstances by which
we are surrounded. Yes, truly, yet how differ-
ently people view these circumstances. You
may say this cause is the difference in our or-
ganization; yet we are all made in the image of
the Deity, and partake of His attributes. For
instance, we have the faculty to love the beau-
ties of nature; we are told we cannot love any-
thing we do not admire. Accordingly, that
which has attained perfection is the object of
love and admiration. How important, then, is
the fact that we should learn those rules of
action which will enable us to arrive at perfec-
tion. Since God is our Father we want to be
like Him; will not He be well pleased to see us
make an effort in this direction?
	We are told that two brothers claim to gov-
ern this world, and to teach us how to become
like God, our Father. The first lesson that we
have any written account of was given in the
Garden of Eden, where Lucifer told our first
parents they would not surely die, but become
as gods, knowing good and evil. How quickly
did our mother Eve grasp the idea of gaining
that eminence of greatness, even at the dis-
pleasure of her Father, and of breaking His
laws. This we will call the spirit of the world;
to-day they laugh at the idea of believing that
which you hear, unless you know in other ways
some portion to be true.
	Deception is practiced to the extent that the
world is ripening in greatness. Greatness in
what? Great in practical lessons which Lucifer
gives. Then to be a man, and show yourself
such, is to be putting on your dignity and
showing your power to bring all things in sub-
jection to your will. This is god-like indeed!
Far from it! You have out-lived the lessons
taught you in childhood, which were love and
obedience. These would bring peace to your
bosom and to the heart humility; but now you
must love to get gain; to amass wealth. The
greater your attainments in this direction the
more important and god-like you feel that you
are. The world bows to these great men; but
suppose some one claims a portion of this
wealth, what then? You must not allow it,
you must stop that; if you are rich and great
you can stop almost anything. Some even go
so far as to have those put to death who are in
their way; yes, stop the breath—what! then the
germ of the Deity is destroyed? You no long
er enjoy your wealth. How then? The wine
cup will soothe and comfort you. You indulge
and lose your balance, until you find your-
self below the brute beast, which you once
ruled over in pride.

[Column 2]
	How different the lessons given by our elder
brother, the Savior of the world. The first
lesson is to love God, our Father, with all our
might, mind and strength. We love this beau-
tiful world with all its varieties of animal veg-
etable and mineral wealth; also the starry
heavens, as the workmanship of His hands.
And as we study the laws which govern them
how we admire the intelligence of the great De-
signer of the stupendous whole. Everything
seems to move in strict obedience to His laws
and shall man, who is made in His own image,
do less? But you ask, what are the laws given
to men?
	We learn that the laws which the Savior
taught were those that will bring us to perfec-
tion; for He says, "Be ye perfect, even as your
Father in heaven is perfect." You ask, how
can we do this? Well, let us consider what
those laws are. The first thing, being an attri-
bute of the Diety, is love, even that which is
pure and undefiled, and therefore genuine, be-
cause it requires us to be just to our fellows,
also true, upright and honorable, faithful to
our trust, loving others as ourselves. When we
have attained to all these virtues we shall de-
light in doing good to all, and accordingly be
beloved by all who are thus striving to live
pure lives; for this we have merited. Such a
class of people will become like the good shep-
herd whose sheep know his voice and follow
him. We do not see sheep led by the voice of
the shepherd in these days as in former
Scriptural times. They are driven by a dog and
a stick.
	We are of the earth earthy, and this love is
not taught by the spirit of the world; but
those who love and adhere to the teachings of
our Savior will find that this spirit will draw
out and develop every faculty of the soul.
Then one is enabled to give everything its
proper value, and also its proper place
This being the case I would ask, which of the
two great powers is the greatest, the one which
cultivates depravity, the other which teaches
us to be upright and honest, and live according
to true principles? Which is most god-like? I
leave this for yourselves to answer. I will add,
however, that it is quite necessary to learn both
lessons. We are in the world; we partake of
its spirit; we must learn these lessons because
these kind of people we must deal with. Ac-
cordingly this is an important lesson. But
this alone is not sufficient. Until we learn the
lessons taught by the Savior of the world, we
will never have the charity which St. Paul
speaks of when he says, "Though I give all my
goods to feed the poor, and my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing." What kind of charity is this? It is
the love of Christ; because He knew all the
lessons Lucifer would give, and the ordeal we
are passing through. Accordingly He has
charity for all our weaknesses, when the heart
is right and the motives pure.
	Now since we learn the spirit of the world
so readily, ought not we to learn the spirit of
the Savior equally well? This was the design
of our parents, that we learn both good and
evil. When we have accomplished both, then
we shall be ready for a higher grade of intel-
ligence, or existence, as you may choose to call
it. And since we do not properly appreciate
things, only by contrast, we shall find these two
lessons are very important ones.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	P.S. Written for my Sabbath School class,
with whom I have not been able to meet the
past winter because of poor health.
								M. E. K.


Praise undeserved is satire in disguise.--
-Broadhurst.


