R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
OGDEN Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of a special meeting of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Second Ward, opened by sing-
ing, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Bishop R. Mc.Quarrie,
singing “Oh ye mountains high." Minutes of
March 3rd read and approved.
	President Emily S. Richards arose and
stated the object, said they could not proceed
with the business of the meeting until she had
offered her resignation as President of the as-
sociation, which was her purpose on account of
being called to reside in Salt Lake City; did
not feel like saying much, could truly say she
loved all the young sisters of the association,
and very highly respected all with whom she
had been associated in Ogden, thought a
change sometimes did good in all organizations
and as this one would bring some of the young
sisters into more responsible positions, trusted
it would be for the best good of all. Prayed
for the welfare of the association, and that each
officer would be able to perform her part well
	Bishop Mc.Quarrie regretted very much to
have Sister Emily leave us, but we could not
control these things. No one would miss Bro.
and Sister Richards more than he would, they
were strong props in the second ward. When
means were wanted for any purpose he only
had to name it and they responded willingly to
the call. We have a vacancy occasioned by
the resignation of Sister Richards, and he did
not feel capable to select another President of
his own judgment, but always made such
things a matter of prayer. There are many in
the association who could fill the office in a
creditable manner to themselves and to the sat-
isfaction of the members, but only one could
hold it at a time.
	The following officers were then nominated
and unanimously sustained: Sister Mary A.
Riley, President; Letitia Williams and Mary
Mc.Quarrie, Counselors; Emily J. Newman,
Secretary; Annie L. Newman and Elizabeth
Riley Assistant Secretaries; Christiana Bel-
nap, Treasurer; and Sister Laura Gibbs, Assis-
tant.
	President Sarah Henick followed with some
excellent remarks. We live in a time when it
requires all our energies to keep the command-
ments of God. Urged the young sisters to in-
form their minds; as they knew not how soon
they might be called upon to fill responsible
positions.  The Lord knows we are weak and
frail, and is very merciful to us, and will aid us
if we desire to do right and gain wisdom by
studying the Scriptures. Referred to her la-
bors with Sister Richards, and said the more
she was in her company and the more intimate-
ly she became acquainted with Sister Emily so
also did her love and respect increase for her,
and she regretted very much to be obliged to
part with her. Prayed that the blessings of the
Lord would attend her wherever she might be
called to reside.
	Sister Josephine West felt interested in the
work of improvement, and especially so in the
young ladies, of the second ward; knew they
loved their president dearly, and assured them
that in return they had her warmest affec-
tions; and hoped if they had been benefit-
ted by her counsel that they would remember
it and treasure it up. Urged the new officers
to magnify their callings, and prayed for their
future success—it they felt unequal to the task
to remember the Lord takes the weak things
of  the earth to accomplish great purposes.
	After Sister Richards had mentioned several 
items of business connected with her past la-
bors, the meeting was adjourned to meet Mon-
day, April 14th- Closing hymn, “Lord, dis-
miss us with thy blessing.” Benediction by 
Bishop Mc.Quarrie. 
			ELILY P. NEWMAN, 
					Secretary.


