TOUR OF GERMANY.

	One event after another has followed in such
quick succession as to appropriate all my time,
so that I have had no time for letter writing.
	In traveling through Germany most beautiful,
wonderful sights have I beheld, and so much
have I seen that has delighted me that it would
give me much pleasure even briefly to describe
it all, and write a full account of the same, but
this I cannot do, as a full description would fill
whole volumes, for the whole broad Empire of
Germany have I seen, and oh, how quickly and
how happily to me the days have passed, almost
like a long, beautiful dream has it seemed, as the
ruins, the mountains, the forests, the pretty vil-
lages and the grand old cities have each and all
been beheld by my admiring eyes like the
scenes of a gorgeous panorama to gaze at them
for a moment and then pass to something
strange!  I will try to tell you something of the
things which have pleased me most.  We spent
a few hours in Carlsruhe, the capital of the
Grand Duchy of Baden, then went to Heidel-
berg, a visit I shall never forget.  We arrived
there in the evening, and the following morn-
ing we started out early to walk to the Castle.
It was a beautiful spring morning, the air so
fresh and filled with the perfume of the blos-
soming fruit trees, and the songs of birds just
returning from southern homes and rebuilding
their nests in the magnificent trees of Heidel-
berg.  The trees were just adorning themselves
in their green foliage, and all nature was smiling
at its own loveliness.  It made me happier than
ever to have such a bright day for our visit, for
I long had thought and wished for the pleasure 
of visiting these famous old ruins and rambling
among them. 
	The only attraction at Heidelberg is the old
castle, but when one once sees that, he no long-
er wonders that thousands of people travel every
summer to the place only to look at the ruins.
The castle stands on the side of a high moun-
tain which is situated at the edge of the Black
Forest, and from its elevated position presents a
very imposing appearance.  Climbing up the
terraced walks the castle itself is lost to the
sight, but the great garden walls and the tall, 
graceful trees present a charming appearance, 
and partly prepare one for the beautiful scene
awaiting us farther on.  These walls inside of
walls, and the deep most all around show how
strongly the place was fortified, and how safe it
seemed from all intruders; now its boldness and
greatness has departe, and the bare grey walls
are mellowed by the greenest moss, the most
beautiful ivy, the most perfect and delicate
ferns, and the ruins stand as a monument in
memory of past glories, but the most beautiful
monument i have ever seen, so full of tender-
ness, sadness and noble sentiments engraven by
the hand of age in characters more touching
than a chisel ever wrought, in words more sub-
lime than pen ever wrote; the deep lines and
crevices, the broken towers, the mouldering
walls all covered with clinging ivy, which
hangs so gracefully from every side, softening
and brightening the otherwise rude and sombre
walls that there is no went of other ornament
here, for nature has wrought a work more beau-
tiful than man could do.
	The castle overlooks the city and the Neckar
rier; as I gazed at it from the old bridge it im-
pressed me with a feeling of awe and admiration.
Its broken towers and ivy covered ruins tell their
own sad history, such tales of pomp and power, 
of distress and ruin.  They stand like monu-
ments of past glory and the mars and blurs and
cracks and fissures are like engraven histories,
telling the deeds of the kings, princesa nd war-
riors who have dwelt therein.  We strayed from
room to room, from balcony to balcony, from
tower to tower, all was bare, old and broken, yet
an occasional piece of plaster with a faded fres-
coe on, or a broken piece of stone carving told
that once the place had been adorned with ar-
tistic workmanship.  As we strolled through
the first long halls nothing could be seen but
bare walls, low ceilings and an iron grating, 
which enclosed a dark cell; with a shudder at
the thought of the poor unfortunate who had
been imprisoned there, we passed on- through a
large, low archway into the inner court. how 
could we better tell what the past has been--for
on the inner wall still remains some of the beau-
tiful decorations, and this court yard was once 
very grand.
	The plainness of the outside was all for the
sake of having the walls firmer and stronger for
defense, but the inner walls were most magnifi-
cently ornamented, and the flowers and foun-
tains were very tastefully arranged.  On the left
of the palace, and it still possesses many of its
features of elegance.  It is said to have been one
of the finest places of architecture in the world. 
We first entered this part and from throne
room to cooking apartments wandered, and
found now no difference; all had assumed the
same homely aspect.  The walls are all very
thick, in some parts twenty-seven feet, and the
halls and passages are so narrow and crooked
that one might always feel safe though an one
my were without trying to gain entrance; but
with all its strength and plans for defense this
mighty castle was taken by the French and
kept by them from some time.  The tall tower of
this otto Heinrich's bau was twice struck by
lightning, and what an enemy could not do to
destroy it the elements did. When the French
were compelled to leave the castle they tried to
destroy it by exploding powder but so well is the
place built that little harm was done by even
that. The old tower at the back, called the blown
up tower, was parted, and half lies in the moat
below, while half still stands in its old place in 
the wall. 
	This is the prettiest and most picturesque part 
of the castle, the ivy grows more luxuriantly
here, and the ferns hang temptingly over the
shattered walls.  We spent a long morning
wandering from tower to cellar, but all is now
the same, a wreck, a ruin.  From some parts of 
the castle most beautiful views can be had of
the queer old city below, the Neckar river with
its boats and fishermen, and hte mountains
skirting the Black Forest.  A part of the castle
is in good preservation and is used for a muse-
um; here are kept old relics of the astle and
pictures of  different princes who lived there,
swords and armour, manuscripts and jewels, 
quite an interesting collection.
	Here are also pictures of a Heidleberg student
named Sand, who drew the fatal number, and
so had to kill Kotzbue, a writer, who had writ-
ten articles displeasing the students.  Young
Sand took leave of his companions and walked
to annheim, where he fulfilled his design, com-
mitting the dreadful deed for which he was af-
terwards beheaded.  We very reluctantly left
the castle after we had viewd it from every pos-
sible way.
	There seemed to be a certain charmior fascina
tion about the place which made me long to lin-
ger, but we had to leave for Manheim in the
afternoon, and so slowly and thoughtfully wend-
ed our way down the pretty paths towards the
city.
	In Mannheim Brother Lyman met us at the
station and took us to the home of a Brother
Pfost, where we had dinner and met several
of our Church members.  In Mannheim and
Ludwigshafen we have quite a large branch,
and Brother Lyman is working so well with 
them. We stayed three days, visiting all the
time among the Saints, most of them are hard
working people, but they made us so welcome, 
and seemed delighted to see us.  There is no
liberty for holding meetings, and it seemed very
sad to see so many souls thirsting for knowledge
and longing for the privilge of worshipping God
in the proper way.
	The Rhine divides the two cities, Mannheim
and Ludwigshafen, but they are connected by a 
fine iron bridge, over which both the train and
the street cars run; at these places the people
suffered much at the time of the Rhine mun-
dation, and one of our brethren had his home
swept entirely away.  Sister Postel who enter-
tained us very nicelyand has done so much to-
wards entertaining the Elders, died since we
were there.  She was a very sweet woman, and
I guess many of our missionaries will long re-
member her for the kindness she has shown
them.  The walls of her home were decorated
with the pictures of the different missionaries
who had been there, and among them I saw
Rulon's and Abram's, others that I knew and
several whose faces were not familiar, but whose
names were.  The sisters came to the house
where we had stayed when we were leaving to
bid us good-bye, and they gave me a beautiful
bouquet of flowers and seemed so sorry to have
us leave. 
	We went from there to Frankfort on the Main.This city is one of the first in Germany, noted
principally for its extensive commerce.  It con-
tains many large and splendid stores, and the
narrowest and crookedest streets.  Here is the
home of the Baron Rothschild, his office is on 
the Juden Strausse, or street of the Jews, an
old narrow and dirty street said to have once
been very picturesque, and is still one of the
sights of the city.  In this street most of the
Jews lived, and on public days and holidays
they were locked in this street and not allowed
to go into any other part of the city; but they
thrived and flourished, nevertheless, and now
own the first stores and houses in the city; The
Rothschild family were among these persecuted
Jews.
	This city was the birthplace of Goethe, and all
tourists visit his old home; there in an open 
square stands a large monument of Goethe,
which is very fine.  The nicest building in the city
is the Opera House, it is built in the style of the 
Grand opera at Paris.  Here we heard Wagner's 
deed, and I was so glad to have an opportunity
of hearing it.  Between the acts we walked
through the grand promenades and into the res-
taurants; such gorgeous rooms and staircases,


[Column 1]
and the ladies were most beautifully dressed,
but Jewesess always are finely clad, and most of
the audience were of that race. 
	At Berlin we went through the Berlin Muse-
um, the pride of the city. I enjoyed the sights 
in that famous city very much. At Dresden I 
spent a most glorious day among the sublime
paintings of the Dresden gallery. We arrived
there on the evening of the fifth of April, and 
saw a fine historical play in the theatre; in the 
morning we visited the castle, and were shown 
through the Green Vault, where the finest dis-
play of jewels and works of art in the world are 
exhibited. I was much interested, and would 
have been still more so had not our guide inci-
dentally remarked that Raphael's Sistine Ma-
donna was covered and could not at present be
seen. My disappointment was too great for
words, and my eyes kept filling with tears to
think that I had come so far and now right in 
the city with this wonderful work of the great
Raphael and must be denied the pleasure of see-
ing it.	*	*	I waited to pass through al
the beautiful rooms and looked most admiringly
at the great diamonds which August the Strong
used to wear for coat and vest buttons; the larg-
est green diamond in the world; and oh such
cases of emeralds, sapphires, rubies, and three
cases of diamonds alone in the most beautiful 
settings, sword handles, hat plumes, belt buc-
kles, and all sorts of ornaments. When we had 
finished looking at them we hastened to the gal-
lery and passed through the different rooms, in 
search of this treasure which we feared more
and more we could not see, for repairing and 
cleaning was going on all around, and we went 
through many empty rooms. At last the room 
was reached, and I entered almost trembling,
for the walls in front were bare, but turning
round the beautiful face of the Madonna greeted
me.
	I almost wept now with delight, and we stood
silently and earnestly gazing upon this most 
touching and eloquent picture. It seemed most

[Column 2]
could surpass it, if indeed it is equalled. Van-
derwerff's Expulsion of Hagar and Ishmael is 
very lovely and pleased me greatly. There are 
quite a number of Vanderwerff's pictures, an
all are said to have once been worth thei
weight in gold. Of the modern masters, De
freggio's pictures are most pleasing, still there
are many others very fine, among them a life
size picture of Napoleon in his royal robes; this
was presented to the King of Saxony by Napo-
leon himself, and is a work of great beauty. 
	At Leinz'g we saw some interesting histori-
cal places. It was where the great battle of na-
tions was fought, and the French under Napo-
leon were defeated and driven from the city. A
stone on an elevation some few miles out from 
the city marks the place where Napoleon stood
watching the movements of the battle. 
	Last night we took supper in "Auerbach's
Keller," the old place where Ooethe first re-
ceived ideas for his Faust. The city of Leipzig
is not so very beautiful, every thing is so old
and dingy, but it is, nevertheless, most interest-
ing for many reasons, principally for having
been the birthplace of so many of Germany's
greatest men. Wagner was born here, Schiller, 
Goethe, Boch and Mozart all lived here many
years. One of the finest musical conservatories
in Germany is here, and the supreme law courts
of the nation are also at Leipzig. How strange
it seems that I should be visiting the birthplaces
and homes of these great poets and musicians. 
Each place we go to there is some historical as-
sociation connected with it to render interest
and attraction, and, oh, I am so delighted with 
it all. 
	Eisenach is a quiet little city, and its chief
attraction is the castle of Wartburg; it is also
the birthplace of Bach, the musician, and the 
early home of Luther; the home is still shown 
where he lived while attending school here. I 
spent a pleasant afternoon visiting the castle
and looking at the Therringian forest from its 
tower. 
In my next I will give you the description of 

[Column 3]
ter-day Saints, and involves much which is not
understood by the outside world. President
Taylor and  a party of brethren and sisters went
up on Wednesday morning, the 14th, that pre-
liminary preparations might be made. The oc-
casion of the dedication will be one of rejoicing, 
as it opens up another channel whereby the 
living may act in holy ordinances, not only for 
themselves, but those who have already passed
into the spirit world. 
The present number of the paper closes the 
twilfth volume of th EXPONENT. As the years
have rolled by the paper has gradually increased
in popularity and influence, as well as in its sub-
scription list. During the past year and a half
some serious difficulties have opposed the finan-
cial interests of the paper. In January, 1883,
the bursting of the water pipes in the Council
Houee destroyed the Editorial Office and much 
of the furniture, as well as valuable books and
papers to a considerable amount. In June the 
fire that destroyed the Council House destroyed
all except the desk containing books and a few 
other things, we cannot estimate the loss at less
than three hundred and fifty dollars, besides
many of the things being such as could not be
replaced. However, we hope to do something
towards making the EXPONENT more interesting
in its appeara ce, at least, as it enters upon its 
"teens." There has never been a time when so
many sample copies were sent for from all parts 
of the civilized world, as there has been during
the past few months. The question now agitat-
ing the  public mind in regard to Mormon wom
en and their views of marriage have awakened
many who desire to ascertain facts for them-
selves. Let Mormon women speak for them-
selves and give their own views upon all the 
subjects that interest the community at large,
and as far as is practical discuss the popular 
questions of the day. By assisting to awaken
thought, arousing dormant energies, enlighten-
ment often comes, and there is no better medi-
um for the growth and improvement than the 
press. Mormon women are much talked of then


will be by all minds of the same calibre as his
own. It is really refreshing to read something
from an intelligent, well-educated gentleman,
that has in its views liberality, justice and com-
mon sense–all of which are exemplified in his
"new view of Mormonism," its Federal rulers,
their administration, and other phenomana.
	At this point I took up the pamphlet that lay
by me, thinking I; would make a few extracts,
but it is all so good and true I found I must ex-
tract the whole if I began, so I will only pray
that it may have a wide circulation, that the
prejudices of its readers may be removed as were
those of the gentlemanly writer of "An English
view of the case."
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, May 5th, 1884.


