THE BUTTER QUESTION.

	As President Cannon was speaking of home
industry, and alluding to imported butter,
thoughts came to my mind how could the evil
be avoided. There is but little good butter to
be obtained, so scarce that when you find it the
price is 40cts. a pound, and the rancid kind
generally 35 cts. Tithing butter can be bought
at 25cts., the standard price all the year round,
and this is all a pound of butter is worth, as
there is a very little of it, and does not go far
in a family to eat, and if necessitated to render
it down for shortening the waste is several
ounces. If we have to take this article into
our stomach on bread or in pastry it engenders
disease and is not fit to feed to pigs. Very lit-
tle home-made lard can be bought, none at all
in summer. And this state of things may be
the case as long as Tom, Dick and Harry make
the butter. If the tithing milk could be gath-
ered by milkmen and churned at a factory and
kept in an ice house until carried to market, we
would have a good article; it could be kept
sweet and made healthy. There should be no-
thing kept in a milkroom but the milk. I was
raised in one of the United States; my father
had but one cow, which gave twelve quarts at
a milking. The milk house was built away
from the dwelling over wet soil, shelves on one
side and green shutters on the shady side to
let in plenty of fresh air, no glass windows, as
they draw the heat (grape or hop vines to run
over it). These shutters could be closed or
opened with a strong cord. Nothing was kept
in this place but the milk. The fresh air would
raise very thick cream and make the sweetest
of butter. The butter which was made from
this cow supplied a large family, besides many
pounds being laid down in the month of May
for the coming winter, and would be as sweet
when brought on the table as when churned.
	Bad butter is a great loss to the community.
Can this be remedied? Good butter is made
here, English salt is used, and every plan has
been tried to keep it sweet, but to no avail,
there is so much mineral in the soil, the air and
salt. Butter exposed to the air, or even a
warm temerature, becomes rancid. Add a lit-
tle salt to the cream when churning, salt the
water a little to wash it in, add a little sugar
salt petre, well pulverized with the salt, mix it
well through, let it stand in a cool place, then
the second time press out all that remains of
the butter milk. This butter packed into an
oak keg or barrel and placed in an ice house
would keep; the larger the quantity pressed to-
the better, as the air is excluded; when you
add a layer sprinkle salt between. The shores
of Bear Lake would be a good location, plenty
of ice, plenty of rock.
	Butter factories would make labor, fat pigs,
and good butter for the market. Farmers
would like to send one or two cows to a good
factory to make their butter on shares. If
milk is kept in a room where bad air is, its na-
ture is to be impregnated with it, and many a
pound of butter is made from foul cream:


