EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We Saints in this valley are enjoying good health,
with few exceptions. We have had a very agreeable
winter, and at present it is delightful weather, almost
like summer, and I think it will not be long before we
shall begin planting gardens, crops, etc. We have also
had a good feast upon the things pertaining to our re-
ligion. Apostle B. Young and H. J. Grant have paid
us a visit and held several meetings, which were crowd-
ed to overflowing, our meeting house not being large
enough to hold the anxious crowds who came to hear
them.
	Almost four years ago, the first meeting I attended in
this place, was held under a shed, there being only
about a half a dozen small houses here then. The
scene is changed now. We have plenty of good, com-
fortable houses, although not very nice; a comfortable
log meeting house, though it is already too small, es-
pecially at conference times. We have a most credit-
able school house, which, I believe, cost about $1,400,
nicely furnished with patent desks, blackboards, maps,
and a first-class school teacher.
	New houses are constantly going up on every hand.
It seems, sometimes, as though we have many disad-
vantages to contend with, but yet the work goes on;
emigration still comes in at the proper times.
	Bro. John Morgan is greatly beloved by the people of
this place, he having been the messenger to bring them
the glad tidings of salvation in their native lands.
	When I read the papers and see the the great judg-
ments that are being poured out upon the wicked, I
think that we as a people should be very thankful that
we are blessed with the light of the Gospel, that we are
here in a place of safety, even if we are obliged to pass
through the hardships incident to settling a new coun-
try, and I believe the majority of the Saints here feel
the same. There are but few who smoke or chew tobac-
co, or use hot drinks. There have been but few cases of
sickness during the winter, and diphtheria is not known.
The water here is of the very best quality; it is so soft
and clear it requires no lye, and but little soap to wash
with. One lady who came here on a visit was so de
lighted with the water that she carried a canteen of it
about 700 miles to show it to her husband and child-
ren.
	I suppose you are anxious to hear from our societies.
Our Young Ladies' Association is progressing favorably;
we hold regular weekly meetings, and the girls are all
interested and willing to learn all they can. We have
thirty-two members enrolled, most all of them bright,
rosy-faced girls, full of life, and bid fair to become use-
ful handmaidens in the Kingdom of God. The Relief
Society is also progressing. There are many good,
faithful sisters here, who are willing to do their duties
at all times,
	Ever wishing success to you, and all those who are
laboring for the welfare of Zion,
			I remain, as ever, your sister,
