[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
Social Science—Spititual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 6—Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — Part 1 Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, April 26, 1960 Objective: To explore the ways in which creative living can add to the abundance and richness of life. Frontiers of the Modern World The Geographical Frontier. Recorded history reveals that certain segments of mankind in all ages, past and present, have lived on various kinds of frontiers. In early modern history and among more primitive groups, there were those who were courageous and adventurous and sought to explore beyond the confines of their own tnbal area or community. From this early beginning we have had a long succession of explorers, such as Marco Polo, Lief Ericson, Christopher Columbus, Magellan, Lewis and Clark, Admiral Richard E. Byrd, and many others who all went beyond the confines or borders of their towns, communities, or na- 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 tions, in an effort to provide more information about the geographical make-up and nature of the world in which they lived. 'Today we are living in an era in which man, still adventurous, is seeking more understanding about the physical world in which he lives, as well as desiring to explore the space beyond. When some of the earlier explorers returned home bearing the fruits of amazing discoveries, men had to accommodate themselves to a new world. However, accommodating oneself to a new world comes hard for some people, for the old and familiar ways tend to become secure and beloved. When Columbus came home there were those whose immediate impulse was to cast him into chains, but, in spite of the resistance and unwillingness of some of his contemporaries to accept his discoveries, the march of progress was on; the world changed and men had to adjust to it. Today we have become more accustomed to explorations of the physical world and take for granted that many almost unbelievable discoveries regarding space will occur in our generation. The march of progress continues, and we must learn to accommodate ourselves to the changes in our lives which will inevitably result from these disCOverIes. Social and Political Frontiers. There have been those among us through history who have lived on the frontiers of social and political advancement. Besides the despots and tyrants who have subjugated people and ruled in order to achieve their own selfish whims, we have had many courageous and outstanding statesmen who have made immeasurable contributions to mankind. 'Through their efforts to find a more effective way of creating an environment for man in which he might find opportunity for selfexpression and obtain security for himself and his family, he has been freed from many of the fears and struggles for survival. Achievements in this direction have enabled us to visualize the day when the table will be set for all who want to eat; a day when the human race will form a unifed community and no longer live as separate entities. But advances do not come easily. There are always resisters to change, with their immature minds and feelings of fear and insecurity. Some stood on the rim of a crowd around Socrates, took note of what sounded like subversive utterances, and reported them to the authorities. And this same type of individual continues to function in this resistive capacity today. The Scientific Frontier. Looking at the explorations on the frontier of knowledge and science, we can see Galileo, after dropping his two unequal weights from the Leaning Tower of Pisa (when, contrary to the official views, each reached the ground at the identical moment) being accused of being in league with the devil and threatened with death if he did not deny the truth which he had-discovered. We can see the advances of medical science throttled for many centuries after the discoveries of Hippocrates, because the human body was considered too sacred to be studied in a scientific manner. But man's thirst for knowledge and his desire to find a way to "subdue the earth" has led him to great LESSON DEPARTMENT accomplishments. His imagination has made him remarkable among created things, and that imagination has carried him far beyond the reach of his working hands. The Spiritual Frontier. A_ historical look at the spiritual frontier reveals that many great spiritual leaders were rejected in their day. Yet what a debt the world owes to such individuals as Buddha, Confucious, Gandhi, and others. 'Those living on the spiritual frontier have probably been among the more diligent in seeking to commune with God. And God, through his Son, Jesus Christ, and through his love, kindness, and generosity, has revealed to us many of his goals for man and has, through his prophets, tried to provide a way in which we could live creatively, abundantly, peacefully, with one another. As we stand back and take a look at the world of today and marvel at the great achievements in many fields, man can view his accomplishments and truly say, it is good. But, looking at himself, what can he say? Has he come closer to the realization of another dream of mankind, that of the perfection of man? Of man loving his neighbors, doing justice, speaking the truth, and realizing that which he potentially is, a son of God? Raising the question is embarrassing since the answer is so painfully clear. While we have created wonderful things, we have failed to make of ourselves beings for whom these great accomplishments would seem worthwhile. If we look at the world todav, we realize that ours is not a life of brotherhood, happiness, contentment, but, rather, one of spiritual chaos and bewilderment. We are prone to ignore the shad- 67 ows of uneasiness, anxiety, and confusion which seldom, if ever, leave men. Charting a True Course In this unsettled sea of human perplexities, yearnings, and disappointments, it may pay high dividends for us to pause and eliminate from our minds our immediate demands and schemes for livelihood and personal pleasure, in order that we may chart a course which will lead us to a port wherein we will likely find the goals and values providing eternal satisfaction and happiness. As part of the process of charting this course, it is suggested that we follow the admonition of Socrates when he said, "Know thyself,' and the admonition of President McKay when he _ suggested that we "... Talk with self in a serious sort of way.' Self-understanding is a prerequisite to good mental health and understanding of other people. 'This is important because we are required to relate ourselves to other people and to the conditions of the world in which we live. We then must have an understanding of how these forces affect us and our relationships with others. And as we come to know ourselves and others, we free ourselves to experience more of the potential within us, to achieve creative, harmonious relationships with other people. As we are able to listen, to grasp what other persons are saying, we remove many of the major hostilities of life; we raise the psychological "iron curtain" which may have been lowered between us, and find that many misunderstandings of life have disappeared. 'hus freed form mis- 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 a. A wl ie understandings, fears, prejudices, and hostilities which frequently CHORAL shackle us, we are ready to move along our course which we are MUSIC for charting, which now opens up for us new horizons for creative living. RELIEF SOCIETY Expressing the Creative Powers Within Us CHORUSES Christ said, "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John ( ) Come Ye Blessed of 10:10). President McKay, in disMy Father—Madsen.20 cussing the life of the intellect and ( ) Go Ye Forth With of the spirit, stated that the intelMy Word—Madsen...25 lectual pursuits help men: ( ) ea Hound san 95... To live completely and abundantly; i i nat, and in the living to serve—serve their fel- ( ) Lord, Hear Our 90 low men! He lives most who secs or Prayer—Verdi; hears, ( ) Lord's Prayer— "... Tongues in trees, books in the Cmte 20 running brooks, ( ) Music—Marsd D0 Sermons in stones and good in everyusic—Mlarsden. Thing." ( ) My Redeemer Lives SS ea Tee a —GateS _ ccccccccccceceee 20? -1,1.10-17 ( ) O Lovely Land, He lives most who sees bevond these America—Madsen...20 trees, these stones, and these running brooks, and sees God and goodness in it ( ) Open Our Eyes— all, who sees an overruling Providence in Macfarlane 20 all this world and recognizes God's children as brothers and sisters, in every one ( ) agi: ~ my 90 of whom there is something good. Ever eS oe striving to lift the man up out of the: sensual world into the realm of true reMusic Sent on Approval ligion (McKay, Davin O., Gospel Ideals, Use this advertisement as your order blank nr page 148). I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Creative living is living freely in Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1 I I I! I! I Please send the music indicated above. D world m whicn one IS a peace 1] On Approval Charge I I with oneself. Expressions of crea- I ) I! " CL] Money Enclosed aa —. Tivity are not limited to producing Secs a masterpiece of art or literature Or I City & StOtC scwwscssncsnewseeunennmeeiene I music; neither are they limited to ao ee the creative expression in dance or Vb!) other physical activity. Any one of I Daynes Masic us can have the door of creativity eT 7 7 opened up for us, if we put forth Lij. 15 £. Tst South 145 NoRTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO*! Salt Lake City 11, Utah the effort. It may be a new idea, a new thought, a new way of doing LESSON DEPARTMENT a somewhat menial task, a particular way in which we teach a class, give a two-and-one-half minute talk, or entertain our friends in our home. It may be the unique way in which we help a child discover something new or solve a problem; it may be an everyday occurrence in which we bring joy and happiness to others through our particular way of interacting with them. Harry Overstreet suggests that much creativity is experienced through the channel of religion: In its very essence religion is "a dedication of the entire self to the pursuit of ideal values." In this sense religion is the most persistently and widely creative of all the enterprises of life. It is life forever looking beyond values already achieved and forever enlisting itself in behalf of values still to be achieved (OverSTREET, Harry A.: The Great Enterprise, page 198, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., used by permission). The religion of Christianity, in general, and of the Latter-day Saints, in particular, encourages the individual to live beyond mediocrity and dullness, as man on his way to perfection seeks to qualify himself for Godhood. Appraising Our Valucs Some individuals have found themselves in positions of leadership or unique situations which encouraged or forced them to see the world and its problems from a broad point of view; to look at the "whole picture."