[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: According | Author: Perry]
a PRIZE-WINNING POEMS LUCILLE RAMPTON PERRY Second Prize Poem According to the Day Lucille Rampton Perry Morning Looking back toward Eden, song was still; Fruited branches brushed upon the ground, The grass was parted on the languid hill By windy combings, innocent of sound. Our world is winter as we face the West, Stiff-booted feet upon unyielding soil, We walk into the summer's ash, divest Of comfort, dedicated to our toil. A handcart carries sustenance for life: The grain, a kettle, all our woolen stuff, A spade, a Bible, courage of a knife; Two candlesticks for beauty are enough, I kneel in prayer upon the frozen crust, "Preserve me, God, in thee I put my trust." 13 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 Noon The white waste washes in against my eyes, In wholeness, broken by a shallow grave. My ears are burdened by the children's crics; I cross the gentle hands that made them brave, Place the willows, stones, a bit of loam Upon the rose that sanctifies this tomb. Love, yours is a crucl unfriendly home; Hard earth is grudging of that meager room. Tears that once could warm my face and hands Are prisoned underneath an icy veil; Desolate the view my heart commands, Long, long and lonely winds the rutted trail. "Give me new strength of soul, with force of will, I cannot bide the good and not the ill." Night The skies have prophesied the builded West In silhouetted phantoms, gray and gold, And spilled the soothing wines the day has pressed Into a sea of blackness, deep and cold. Our nights can raise us high above this sphere, And thrill our vision with a galaxy, But stars are chil] and distant. I am here With all I need to fix my destiny. Somewhere ahead there is a greening field, A spring that rises from the colored stones, A sun-warmed earth whose fertile womb will yield To planting, where the westerly has blown. And thou, who gave vicissitudes to men, Shall lift me up and quicken me again. Lucille Rampton Perry, Woods Cross, Utah, is a first-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. She tells us: "J am the wife of Curtis S. Perry, and mother to six children, two boys and four girls. Mly oldest son is a freshman at the University of Utah, and my youngest daughter is four years old. At present I am first counselor in the South Bountiful Second Ward Primary. I have been writing poetry for only two or three years, and this is my first real accomplishment in poetry, except for one other poem which was published in The Relief Society Magazine last year. Mly interest since childhood has been primarily in drawing and painting. Family responsibilities have forced me to set this interest aside for awhile. Poetry has given me much satisfaction. I belong to a small group who meet for an hour every other week to study and criticize cach other's poetry, and this has been very helpful to me. Some day I would like to combine my interests in writing and painting and illustrate some work of my own."