[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
Notes TO THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned &vening ITleeting of Fast Sunday in ITlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 6, 1960, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relicf Society. A suggestive program for this meeting has been sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. It is suggested that the ward Relief Society chorister and organist confer with the ward president and carefully select from the ward music library the songs for this occasion which seem to be the most appropriate and the most inspirational.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 leader; Maggie Lee Smoke, theology class leader; Alice Smith, President, West Florida District; Mildred Barlow, President, Georgia-Florida District; Belva Morris, Second Counselor, Southern States Mission Relief Socicty. Sister Ravsten reports: "A two-day convention was held at the mission home, the first one to be held in the mission. Twelve sisters were present out of the fifteen that were scheduled to be there. A work meeting was conducted and each of the sisters took back to her district several completed articles to demonstrate to her district. President Ravsten spoke to the sisters on the theme of the convention, "Ihe Latter-day Saint Home.' A testimony meeting followed. Lesson demonstration and helps were given by the mission board members. Displayed in the picture are a few of the articles that were made by the sisters. Between the lessons lovely smorgasbord dinners were served to all present. New goals were set and new acquaintances made; for the first time the mission presidency had met together and the district Relief Society presidents had the opportunity to meet the counselors and board members." i Se en 8 De Photograph submitted by Wilma F. Turley SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION, FORT APACHE (ARIZONA) BRANCII PARTICIPATES IN MEMORIZING THE ARTICLES OF FAITH Left to right: May Altaha; Della Zagatah; Amelia Kane; Arlene Cook; Serena Altaha; Diane Frost; Lillian Kaytoggy; Mary Alekay; Edith Antonio; Bela Riley. Insert, Myrtle G. Blaisdell, Fort Apache Branch, Relief Society Supervisor. Wilma F. 'Turley, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "We are very proud of the work our missionaries are doing with the women of the mission. 'The Hopi sisters are natural Relief Society sisters. The Navajo, Apache, and others are doing well. In every branch we have many faithful sisters who keep us cncouraged, and we feel that our time is well spent. The sisters make quilts, bake bread, and sew articles of clothing for themselves and to sell in bazaars." 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 In Memoriam Pres. Amy B. Lyman (Continued from page 5) Central Chorus. 'This has been a strength to Relief Society and brought happiness and development to thousands of Relief Socicty sisters whose sweet voices have inspired us and brought a spirit of worship into our meetings. The division of Relief Society work with which Sister Lyman seems to be most intimately identified, however, in the minds of most people who know of her work, is the founding, in 1919, and the nurturing and development of the Relief Society Social Service and Child Welfare Department, under the presidency of Sister Emmeline B. Wells, and upon advice of President Joseph F. Smith. This department continues today an extremely important division of Relief Society work, offering to children and others standardized case work services which require license. Sister Lyman's work in the field of social welfare has not been confined to the Church. She has extended it nationally and even internationally. She credits her first interest in social work to a summer class in sociology which she took at the University of Chicago, at which time she also did volunteer social work with the Chicago Charities, which brought her into contact with Hull House, the famous Chicago settlement house established by one of the nation's great social workers, Jane Addams. She also took a special course, in 1917, in family welfare work in Colorado, which, she maintained, further stimulated her and created in her a strong desire to participate fully in social welfare, utilizing the highest standard of practices. She maintained that this schooling in Colorado provided her with basic preparation for her later work. Wa$th due respect to this, it is my personal opimion that Sister Lyman would have been a social worker and a good one, anyway, because of her love for and understanding of people and because of her innate desire to help her fellowmen. E have always considered Sister Lyman as a link which bound the present to the beginnings of Relief Society. She was called to the General Board during the presidency of Bathsheba W. Smith, who was the youngest among the eighteen original members, and the fourth General President of Relief Society. Sister Lyman often recalled visits to Pleasant Grove, when she was a child, of Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister Zina D. H. Young. She was familiar with the character and work of these two great women leaders, the second and third Presidents of Relief Society. She served under the leadership of Sister Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Louise Y. Robison, the fifth, sixth, and seventh General Presidents respectively. She herself became the eighth General President. Today, as the ninth General President, I wish to express my sincere appreciation for the opportunities and training which she gave me during the three years I acted as her Counselor in the General Presidency, and prior to that as Editor of The Relief Society Magazine and as PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN a member of the General Board. I feel greatly indebted to her for all she did for me that has been so helpful to me in the position I now hold. This connection of Sister Lyman with all these leaders is of interest. It has made her a veritable treasure house of information. With her remarkable memory, inimitable speaking style, and her keen sense of humor, an hour with her, listening to her tell interesting, intimate, unrecorded bits in the history of