[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Award]
Subscriptions On natahed a0 April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1959 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1960. Bound Volume of 1959 Tlagazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1959 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through 'The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on inside back cover.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. A limited number of the 1959 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1959 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relicf Society libraries. Page 30 Be Honest with Yourself 'Ok Say: What Is Teuth? HAT a wonderful 'world this would be if everybody believed and practiced the teachings of the Savior: Ye shall know the truth, -and»the: truth shall make: you free. Lucky for you who. Jive in a land built on a belief in truth and justice. Not all people are, so fortunate. As children we are 'naturally honest. And we would likely so remain but for the bad examiples, group pressures, or Tack of effective moral teaching in our lives.'. Page 31 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 Should untruthfulness creep into our lives it is likely to come first in faint disguise: in exaggeration; in concealment of some pertinent facts when people have a right to believe that what we say is the whole truth and nothing but the truth; in pretending that we agree with somcone else's statement when he expresses an idea or an opinion which is contrary to our own; in refraining from speaking up in defense of a person or a cause when we know we ought to do so; in making promises which we do not intend to keep. Only after we have grown callous to some of these milder forms of indirect deceit are we likely to tell deliberate falsehoods. Most people are innocent of intentional and outright deception. Young men and young women: how valiant are you to defend the truth? Do you stand up to the careless opinions and irresponsible claims which are so often expressed when young people engage in casual talk? How careful are you in expressing your own opinions and in sticking to facts in your own speech? If all people were strictly truthful and honest, nghteousness would soon cover the earth — and heaven would not be far beyond! So, believe the truth, tell the truth, love the truth, live the truth. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF What Gifts J Bring Ida Elaine James I forgot that you are thirty-two, Habit being a stubborn thing to break, And so, as always, I bring home to you Some trifle from the party... A mint, or cake. In long-gone days if I failed to secrete A treasure in my purse, I would not dare To meet your eager, outstretched hand, my sweet. Stronger than age is strong, this will to share! Forgive old age's tender foolishness For harboring bits I've learned along life's way, Expectant always of your welcoming yes, Your heart enfolding the gifts I bring today. But now, life's gems —- my best — I am not sure How you will take; still, hearts are hard to cure. Prevent Crippling Diseases Basil O' Connor President, The National Foundation OU and the March of Dimes — that's the combination that produced the polio vaccine. 'That combination — you and the new March of Dimes — can do it again. The new March of Dimes is tackling birth defects, arthritis, and polio. Medical surveys show that one out of sixteen American babies is born defective. You can do something to stop it. Arthritis is America's No. 1 crippling disease — the enemy of millions, both adults and children. Old and new epidemics of polio have left 50,000 in need of March of Dimes care. The National Foundation, supported by the March of Dimes, leads in medical research to prevent crippling disease, in medical care to prevent disease crippling, and in professional education to train disease fighters. National Foundation scholarships train hands and minds to prevent the tragedy of crippling diseases. An army of volunteers will conduct the new March of Dimes in January 1960. They know the anguish that birth defects bring families; they know that arthritis and the rheumatic diseases strike millions, including children. 'They know that in 1959 polio erupted in terrifying epidemics and that polio still cripples. 'They also know that a nationally co-ordinated research program, accompanied by patient aid and the training of more medical personnel, is the only hope of checking these three cripplers, the only way of bringing hope to their victims. Help prevent crippling diseases. Join the new March of Dimes. OP J Could Tot Cry Gladys Hesser Burnham I could not cry the day you left me standing Unprepared for this, our last farewell. 'The world around was bursting forth with promise That life was sweet and spring about to swell. My only premonition of disaster Was weeping sky that filled the tulip's brim. I thought at once of sweet, thirst-quenching moisture That hastens growing buds along each limb. My mind was on this earthly resurrection Of flowing sap and flowering gardens gay. I could not sense the fact that you were leaving; Yet weeping skies are blue beyond the gray. Page 33 Recipes Strom the Tlorthtrh Siates lTlission Submitted by Vera C. Stratford PRIDE OF IOWA COOKIES 1 c. Shortening "2 tsp. Soda 1 c. Brown sugar " tsp. Salt 1 c. White sugar "2 ¢. Coconut, shredded 2 eggs 2 c. Rolled oats 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Corn flakes 2 c. Flour " Cc. Nut meats Cream shortening and sugar together until light. Add eggs and beat until light and creamy. Add vanilla; sift flour, soda, and salt together and mix in. Add coconut, oats, corn flakes, and nuts. Drop on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° until lightly browned. Porry-SEED CAKE % c. Poppy seeds 2 tsp. Baking powder % c. Milk ¥% c. Milk 1% C. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla % c. Butter 3 egg whites 2 c. Flour Soak poppy seeds in the % cup milk overnight. Mix butter and sugar. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately to butter mixture with the % cup milk. Add vanilla and soaked poppy seeds. Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake twenty-five minutes at 350°. Spread a custard filling, recipe below, between layers and ice with pink seven-minute frosting. Custard for Poppy-Seed Cake: Y% c. Sugar (brown or white) 2 tbsp. Flour, or more to make desired 1 c. Milk thickness 3 egg yolks 1 c. Nut meats, chopped Mix and cook in a double boiler, all ingredients, except nuts, until thick; cool, add nuts, and spread between layers of cake. PEPPERED BEEF 1 tbsp. Fat 1 c. Hot water 1 lb. Roundsteak 2 tbsp. Cornstarch % tsp. Salt 4 tsp. Soy sauce pepper 1 chopped onion 1 crushed garlic clove 4 green peppers ~ % c. Celery, chopped % c. Cold water 1 bouillon cube Cut meat in narrow inch-long strips and brown in fat. Add salt, pepper, garlic, enion, sliced peppers, and chopped celery. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to mixture. Cook until tender. Mix cornstarch, soy sauce, and cold water and add to meat mixture. Cook about two additional minutes. Serve with rice or boiled noodles. Page 34 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN STATES MISSION 35 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BAKED BEANS 1 lb. Dried Great Northern beans thirty slices bacon 1 medium-sized onion brown sugar water, as needed salt and pepper 1 bottle tomato catsup Boil beans in sufficient water to cover, salted to taste, until done, but not soft. In a baking dish, place a layer of beans, salted and peppered to taste, then a layer of thinly sliced onion. Sprinkle with brown sugar and dot with catsup. Cut bacon in short lengths and place on top of onions. Make second and third layers of the same. Cover with thin layer of brown sugar and remaining catsup and place long strips of bacon on top. Bake in 350° oven until bacon is browned. Cover, reduce heat to very low, and bake two and one-half additional hours. Add a little water, as needed, to make sure there is always enough moisture to bake without burning. SISTER SNELGROVE'S PINEAPPLE CHEESE SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 1 pkg. Lime jello "A c. Sugar 2 c. Hot water 1 c. Grated mild cheese juice from one lemon 1 pt. Whipping cream Dissolve jello in hot water and add lemon juice. Cool. Combine pineapple and sugar, then bring to a boil. Add to jello mixture when cool; add cheese. When almost starting to jell, fold in whipped cream. WIsconsIN BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 124 c. Flour "% c. Milk 2% tsp. Baking powder 1 egg % tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Fat " Cc. Sugar blueberries, as desired Sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk and fat. Add dry ingredients, stirring lightly. Fold in washed blueberries (as many as desired). Bake in greased muffin pan at 425° for 25 minutes. Corn-BELT CRACKER JACKS 1 Ib. Brown sugar " tsp. Salt 1 c. White syrup "2 tsp. Soda % Ib. Butter 8 qts. Popped corn Cook sugar and syrup until it almost burns (about 8 minutes), stirring constantly from the time it starts to boil. Melt butter and add with the salt and soda. Stir and pour over popped corn (more or less can be used depending on taste). Now pour out on table and press down with hands or form into balls. Exper Coox's CrysTAL FrencuH Dressinc ror Fruit SALAD A C. Sugar 7" c. White vinegar 1 tsp. Celery seed 1 c. Salad oil "A tsp. Salt 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 tsp. Dry mustard Combine sugar, celery seed, salt, mustard, and vinegar. Very slowly add the oil, beating constantly. The dressing becomes very thick as the oil is added. Add minced garlic clove. Chill well before serving. lore Precious Shan Riches Betty Lou Martin 66 T ED, come here quick. Look at the new living-room set that the Andrews are getting." Carolyn Hayes watched curiously out the window. "Honestly, they're always getting something new. Why only last month they got a new car, and the month before that." Ted Hayes put his arm affectionately around his wife. "Now, dear, we're not interested in what the Andrews get new. After all, they don't have any children to buy for, and we have three to take care of. 'They can afford things like that." Carolyn turned dark, intent eyes upon Ted. "Really, Ted, I don't mean to be envious, but I can't help but admire the nice things that Barbara and Chris Andrews have. Why Barbara even has a_ dishwasher." "But just think, Mrs. Hayes, you have three dish wipers and one potential one. What more could you ask for?" 'Ted teased in his good natured way. Ted, with his clean-cut appearance, his blonde curly hair, and his appealing blue eyes, could always make Carolyn smile. He had a way about him that would make the world seem rosy and bright, even on a rainy day. "Td like to see the time that you or the children finish the job of wiping the dishes for me." Carolyn laughed. "At least, I know that you have good intentions." Carolyn finally got the twins, Jimmy and Jenny, ready for school. They had just walked out the door when the baby, Cathy, started to Page 36 cry. "Oh, Cathy, you're supposed to sleep right now so Mommy can get her washing done." Carolyn sighed. ""I can see that this is going to be one of those days." After several unsuccessful _attempts, Carolyn finally finished the washing, then she made the beds and did the breakfast dishes. She worked through the lunch hour, and by the time the nine-year-old twins came home from school, Carolyn was exhausted. "I really should iron a few of those pieces before [I start dinner, but I'm just too tired." "Mother," Jimmy called from the living room. "Mrs. Andrews is here to see you." Oh, no, thought Carolyn, and I look so untidy. Barbara Andrews sat across from Carolyn and chatted to her about their new living-room set, and the trip that she and Chris planned to take to New York. Carolyn listened with excitement. If only she and Ted could take a trip like that, but they could never afford it. Besides, they wouldn't have anyone with whom to leave the children. "Oh, Barbara, it all sounds so wonderful. Why I've never hardly been out of the State, let alone to New York," Carolyn said. Barbara was her usual, wellgroomed self. "I am excited about it, Carolyn. Of course we always take a vacation every summer. Why, it just wouldn't seem right, if we didn't." Carolyn felt even more conspicuous in her soiled blue cotton dress, with her dark hair disheveled. MORE PRECIOUS THAN RICHES Barbara was trim and neat in a fresh cotton skirt and blouse, and her blonde hair was beautifully combed. "Well, I really must be running. Pm meeting Chris for dinner in town tonight, and then we're going to take in a show. Do come over and see my new furniture, Carolyn." THE thought of a show sounded relaxing to Carolyn, and when Ted came home, she suggested that they go. "It's fine with me, honey," Ted replied. "We can all go to a drivein