[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
A lifelong Federalist, he attempted to introduce English literature 61 into the curriculum of Yale while still a student, thus furnishing the initiative for the literary group known as the Connecticut Wits. Of the three most prominent members, John 'Trumbull and Dwight remained Federalists, while Joel Barlow followed Paine and _ Jefferson in his personal philosophy. Dwight's Conquest of Canaan, an epic in eleven volumes, written in 1785, when he was thirty-three, was heavily imitative of Iinglish models. Designed to be the first American epic, it was so filled with pretentious language and elaborate descriptions of thunderstorms that his companion wit, John 'Trumbull, suggested it should be equipped with hghtning rods. A careful observer of the rural countryside, Dwight's Travels in New-England and New York provides a keen commentary on the social and economic contemporary scene, and has greater enduring value than his verse. His Greenfield Hill was a long poem modeled after Goldsmith's "Deserted Village." In addition to describing the lovely scenery and rural virtues, which Dwight greatly loved, it eulogizes the virtues of his Federalistic-Calvinistic culture: simplicity and plainness in manners and morals, thrift and industry, and belief in the sustaining power of property personally owned and cared for. In this "western village" where: Prudence eyes her hoard with watchful care And robes of thrift and neatness, all things wear. The evils of European monarchy are absent: the poor are fed, villages are not sold to buy royal gowns, and: No griping landlord here alarms the door 62 To halve, for rent, the poor man's little store. The hymn of praise which Timothy Dwight fashions for his home town strongly predicts Whittier's Snowbound in his confidence in the enduring rural virtues: Sweet-smiling village! Loveliest of the hills! How green thy groves! Glassy rills! With what new joy, I walk thy verdant streets! How often pause, to breathe thy gale of sweets; To mark thy well-built walls! Thy budding fields And every charm, that rural nature yields; And every joy to Competence allied, And every good, that Virtue gains from Pride! How pure thy Several New England clergymen had previously defined the confiscation of church and lands by the French as the cause of the present "triumph of infidelity" in their own midst. 'Timothy Dwight wrote "The Duty of Americans, at the Present Crisis," to warn against the evil French influences then threatening the new Nation, and urged Americans to defend church and country. In his fiery charges of anarchy, lawlessness, immorality, and atheism against the very group which Jefferson and his mass followers openly supported, Dwight exemplifies those conservative aristocrats who, consciously or otherwise, feared a potential uprising and usurpation of control by the poor and the uneducated. In his love for things as they were — love of God, country, education, and morality as defined and defended by patriots, gentlemen, and Christians, he gave much support to the Federalist political cause, clergyman though he was. But to understand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 ALEXANDER HAMILTON From a Contemporary Etching more forcefully who the Federalists were and what thcy were trying to do, we must meet their central personality—the brilliant realist who was their unquestioned torchbearcr: Alexander Hamilton. American nationalism owes more to Hamilton than any other men except Washington and Marshall. Alexander Hamilton's Life (1757- 1804 ) Hamilton was the son of a wealthy planter in the West Indies. He early showed the brilliance and ambition which predicted his mature prominence. Business musfortunes caused his father's bankruptcy, and his mother died in 1768. Knowing that he must make his own way, and desiring to excel, he entered King's College (now Columbia) in 1774, and a year later he wrote two influential pamphlets on colonial politics which made him LESSON DEPARTMENT known among New York's political leaders. In 1776, when the war broke out, he organized an artillery company and was awarded its captaincy, but within the year was appointed to Washington's staff, where he played a key role. Later, he secured a field command and won distinction at Yorktown. In 1780 he married the daughter of General Philip Schuyler of the distinguished New York family by whom he had seven children. After the war he was admitted to the bar, and when but twenty-five was chosen a delegate to Congress. At twenty-nine he was appointed a delegate to the Annapolis Convention and later to the Federal Convention at Philadelphia which had been charged with the responsibility of revising the Articles of Confederation. In the same year he began publishing a series of essays in New York papers which were designed to motivate the wealthy and professional classes to support the new Constitution. Although James Madison and John Jay also contributed, it was Hamilton who conceived the series of essays known as The Iederalist, and much more than half its contents were Hamilton's. These essays are acknowledged to be the clearest, strongest exposition of the theory of American Constitutional law. In 1798, the year the Constitution was finally ratified, Hamilton was appointed Secretary of the Treasury, a position he held until his resignation six years later. It was during this period that he established the national bank, and many money policies which characterize the national economy to the present 63 day. In 1800 he watched in bitterness while his opponent, 'Thomas Jefferson, was elected President. Four years later he was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr. Hamilton's Federalism Because one may see his picture ovaled on a ten-dollar bill, it becomes easy to think of Alexander Hamilton predominantly as an economist or a financier. Although he had an evident genius for administration, and his monetary principles proved themselves so sound that his successors who had most criticized them adopted them with scarcely any changes, Hamilton's great lifelong goal was to build the struggling Nation into a permanent oneness so strong and balanced that it would never break apart. Just as Thomas Paine appeared at precisely the right moment to persuade the colonists that their destiny was separation rather than rebellion, so it was Hamilton's fondest dream to create a strong nationalism or federation of the many states into one at the time when nationalism meant nothing. Everything he did furthered this end. He favored capitalism and the establishment of a national bank because it would unite the colonies together more firmly. For the same reason, he opposed __Jefferson's _—_ agricultural principles: they gave too much selfdetermination over too scattered an area, thus weakening the central governing power. He strongly advocated government supports and subsidies to American manufacturers for the same reason: such a policy would enhance the Nation's united versatility, and not make it solely dependent on agriculture. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 The Federalist Hamilton was too much a man of affairs ever to consider himself a literary person. He took pride in writing but little for the public press, feeling it beneath him, yet like Franklin and Jefferson, he made his way in life largely through his use of words. His style is not affected or individualistic, but as one might expect from a lawyer, it is clear, condensed, carefully organized, and entirely confident of cvery assertion. From these qualities come The Federalist's literary excellence. Too sincere ever to deal with trivial or anything less than the whole truth of what the guiding principles of the new Nation must be, if it was to survive, these papers contain the brilliant, creative thinking in the realm of Constitutional law which places them in the first rank of such writings, along with those of Aristotle and Montesquieu. No commentary on this basic document has deserved or received more honor, nor through constant reference has proved itself more indispensable than these writings. Hamilton's fervent belief that government should reflect the wishes of aristocratic owners of property saved the Nation from the excesses of liberalism which characterized the repercussions following the Revolution in France. He_ believed that property was tangible reward to those of superior talent, and that "the power which holds the pursestrings absolutely, must rule." And while in the first of The Federalist papers he admits that the established class of aristocrats will do everything possible to prevent a decrease in their established power and wealth, one cannot know whether their motives are blameless or selfish, for as Hamilton reminds us:. We are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate as well upon those who support as those who oppo

se the right side of a question. Nor can we cure heresy by persecution, nor gain followers by fire or sword, or by angry words. Wisely he points out how often those who ostensibly work for common folk often are driven inwardly by jealousy or selfishness:. An enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to the rights of the people, which is more commonly the fault of the head than of the heart, will be represented as mere pretence and artifice, the stale bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be forgotten, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust. On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that the vigor of government is essential to the security of liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and wellinformed judgment, their interest can never be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal for rights of the people than under the forbidding appearance of zeal for the firmness and efficiency of government. History will teach us that the former has been found a much more certain road to the introduction of despotism than the latter, and that of those men who have overturned the liberties of republics, the greatest number have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants. LESSON DEPARTMENT The above quotation represents Hamilton fairly, both in the power of his style and for his ideas contained therein. By looking realistically at man, by finding good in him despite his weaknesses, by acknowledging the Constitution to be a compromise, but a compromise heading in the mght direction; by clarifying how checks and balances under the Constitution counter and thus strengthen each other; and by convincing the aristocratic classes that the Constitution safeguarded them from excesses and encroachments, Alexander Hamilton made his unique contribution both to America's literature and to his great legal structure in whose superstructure the peace and future of the Nation has always rested. And if 65 one can achieve the ideal of the Constitutional Convention, which pledged itself to deal in principles, not in men, then he and the Federalist faction, which for so long he spearheaded, deserve man's gratitude for their firm stand on principle as they believed it—principle which has been woven into the heart of the American structure. Thoughts for Discussion 1. During the last decade of the eighteenth century, why was the French Revolution so vital an issue? 2. In what way did Timothy Dwight give added power to the Federalist cause? 3. How could anyone who distrusted the judgment of the common people ever make a contribution of any value to American institutions of Government? 4. In The Federalist Hamilton was trying to convince whom of what?