[Vol47 | January 1960 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Prevent | Author: Connor]
Prevent Crippling Diseases Basil O' Connor President, The National Foundation OU and the March of Dimes — that's the combination that produced the polio vaccine. 'That combination — you and the new March of Dimes — can do it again. The new March of Dimes is tackling birth defects, arthritis, and polio. Medical surveys show that one out of sixteen American babies is born defective. You can do something to stop it. Arthritis is America's No. 1 crippling disease — the enemy of millions, both adults and children. Old and new epidemics of polio have left 50,000 in need of March of Dimes care. The National Foundation, supported by the March of Dimes, leads in medical research to prevent crippling disease, in medical care to prevent disease crippling, and in professional education to train disease fighters. National Foundation scholarships train hands and minds to prevent the tragedy of crippling diseases. An army of volunteers will conduct the new March of Dimes in January 1960. They know the anguish that birth defects bring families; they know that arthritis and the rheumatic diseases strike millions, including children. 'They know that in 1959 polio erupted in terrifying epidemics and that polio still cripples. 'They also know that a nationally co-ordinated research program, accompanied by patient aid and the training of more medical personnel, is the only hope of checking these three cripplers, the only way of bringing hope to their victims. Help prevent crippling diseases. Join the new March of Dimes. OP J Could Tot Cry Gladys Hesser Burnham I could not cry the day you left me standing Unprepared for this, our last farewell. 'The world around was bursting forth with promise That life was sweet and spring about to swell. My only premonition of disaster Was weeping sky that filled the tulip's brim. I thought at once of sweet, thirst-quenching moisture That hastens growing buds along each limb. My mind was on this earthly resurrection Of flowing sap and flowering gardens gay. I could not sense the fact that you were leaving; Yet weeping skies are blue beyond the gray. Page 33 Recipes Strom the Tlorthtrh Siates lTlission Submitted by Vera C. Stratford PRIDE OF IOWA COOKIES 1 c. Shortening "2 tsp. Soda 1 c. Brown sugar " tsp. Salt 1 c. White sugar "2 ¢. Coconut, shredded 2 eggs 2 c. Rolled oats 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Corn flakes 2 c. Flour " Cc. Nut meats Cream shortening and sugar together until light. Add eggs and beat until light and creamy. Add vanilla; sift flour, soda, and salt together and mix in. Add coconut, oats, corn flakes, and nuts. Drop on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° until lightly browned. Porry-SEED CAKE % c. Poppy seeds 2 tsp. Baking powder % c. Milk ¥% c. Milk 1% C. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla % c. Butter 3 egg whites 2 c. Flour Soak poppy seeds in the % cup milk overnight. Mix butter and sugar. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately to butter mixture with the % cup milk. Add vanilla and soaked poppy seeds. Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake twenty-five minutes at 350°. Spread a custard filling, recipe below, between layers and ice with pink seven-minute frosting. Custard for Poppy-Seed Cake: Y% c. Sugar (brown or white) 2 tbsp. Flour, or more to make desired 1 c. Milk thickness 3 egg yolks 1 c. Nut meats, chopped Mix and cook in a double boiler, all ingredients, except nuts, until thick; cool, add nuts, and spread between layers of cake. PEPPERED BEEF 1 tbsp. Fat 1 c. Hot water 1 lb. Roundsteak 2 tbsp. Cornstarch % tsp. Salt 4 tsp. Soy sauce pepper 1 chopped onion 1 crushed garlic clove 4 green peppers ~ % c. Celery, chopped % c. Cold water 1 bouillon cube Cut meat in narrow inch-long strips and brown in fat. Add salt, pepper, garlic, enion, sliced peppers, and chopped celery. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to mixture. Cook until tender. Mix cornstarch, soy sauce, and cold water and add to meat mixture. Cook about two additional minutes. Serve with rice or boiled noodles. Page 34 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN STATES MISSION 35 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BAKED BEANS 1 lb. Dried Great Northern beans thirty slices bacon 1 medium-sized onion brown sugar water, as needed salt and pepper 1 bottle tomato catsup Boil beans in sufficient water to cover, salted to taste, until done, but not soft. In a baking dish, place a layer of beans, salted and peppered to taste, then a layer of thinly sliced onion. Sprinkle with brown sugar and dot with catsup. Cut bacon in short lengths and place on top of onions. Make second and third layers of the same. Cover with thin layer of brown sugar and remaining catsup and place long strips of bacon on top. Bake in 350° oven until bacon is browned. Cover, reduce heat to very low, and bake two and one-half additional hours. Add a little water, as needed, to make sure there is always enough moisture to bake without burning. SISTER SNELGROVE'S PINEAPPLE CHEESE SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 1 pkg. Lime jello "A c. Sugar 2 c. Hot water 1 c. Grated mild cheese juice from one lemon 1 pt. Whipping cream Dissolve jello in hot water and add lemon juice. Cool. Combine pineapple and sugar, then bring to a boil. Add to jello mixture when cool; add cheese. When almost starting to jell, fold in whipped cream. WIsconsIN BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 124 c. Flour "% c. Milk 2% tsp. Baking powder 1 egg % tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Fat " Cc. Sugar blueberries, as desired Sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk and fat. Add dry ingredients, stirring lightly. Fold in washed blueberries (as many as desired). Bake in greased muffin pan at 425° for 25 minutes. Corn-BELT CRACKER JACKS 1 Ib. Brown sugar " tsp. Salt 1 c. White syrup "2 tsp. Soda % Ib. Butter 8 qts. Popped corn Cook sugar and syrup until it almost burns (about 8 minutes), stirring constantly from the time it starts to boil. Melt butter and add with the salt and soda. Stir and pour over popped corn (more or less can be used depending on taste). Now pour out on table and press down with hands or form into balls. Exper Coox's CrysTAL FrencuH Dressinc ror Fruit SALAD A C. Sugar 7" c. White vinegar 1 tsp. Celery seed 1 c. Salad oil "A tsp. Salt 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 tsp. Dry mustard Combine sugar, celery seed, salt, mustard, and vinegar. Very slowly add the oil, beating constantly. The dressing becomes very thick as the oil is added. Add minced garlic clove. Chill well before serving. lore Precious Shan Riches Betty Lou Martin 66 T ED, come here quick. Look at the new living-room set that the Andrews are getting." Carolyn Hayes watched curiously out the window. "Honestly, they're always getting something new. Why only last month they got a new car, and the month before that." Ted Hayes put his arm affectionately around his wife. "Now, dear, we're not interested in what the Andrews get new. After all, they don't have any children to buy for, and we have three to take care of. 'They can afford things like that." Carolyn turned dark, intent eyes upon Ted. "Really, Ted, I don't mean to be envious, but I can't help but admire the nice things that Barbara and Chris Andrews have. Why Barbara even has a_ dishwasher." "But just think, Mrs. Hayes, you have three dish wipers and one potential one. What more could you ask for?" 'Ted teased in his good natured way. Ted, with his clean-cut appearance, his blonde curly hair, and his appealing blue eyes, could always make Carolyn smile. He had a way about him that would make the world seem rosy and bright, even on a rainy day. "Td like to see the time that you or the children finish the job of wiping the dishes for me." Carolyn laughed. "At least, I know that you have good intentions." Carolyn finally got the twins, Jimmy and Jenny, ready for school. They had just walked out the door when the baby, Cathy, started to Page 36 cry. "Oh, Cathy, you're supposed to sleep right now so Mommy can get her washing done." Carolyn sighed. ""I can see that this is going to be one of those days." After several unsuccessful _attempts, Carolyn finally finished the washing, then she made the beds and did the breakfast dishes. She worked through the lunch hour, and by the time the nine-year-old twins came home from school, Carolyn was exhausted. "I really should iron a few of those pieces before [I start dinner, but I'm just too tired." "Mother," Jimmy called from the living room. "Mrs. Andrews is here to see you." Oh, no, thought Carolyn, and I look so untidy. Barbara Andrews sat across from Carolyn and chatted to her about their new living-room set, and the trip that she and Chris planned to take to New York. Carolyn listened with excitement. If only she and Ted could take a trip like that, but they could never afford it. Besides, they wouldn't have anyone with whom to leave the children. "Oh, Barbara, it all sounds so wonderful. Why I've never hardly been out of the State, let alone to New York," Carolyn said. Barbara was her usual, wellgroomed self. "I am excited about it, Carolyn. Of course we always take a vacation every summer. Why, it just wouldn't seem right, if we didn't." Carolyn felt even more conspicuous in her soiled blue cotton dress, with her dark hair disheveled. MORE PRECIOUS THAN RICHES Barbara was trim and neat in a fresh cotton skirt and blouse, and her blonde hair was beautifully combed. "Well, I really must be running. Pm meeting Chris for dinner in town tonight, and then we're going to take in a show. Do come over and see my new furniture, Carolyn." THE thought of a show sounded relaxing to Carolyn, and when Ted came home, she suggested that they go. "It's fine with me, honey," Ted replied. "We can all go to a drivein. As it turned out, Carolyn wished that they had stayed home. Cathy wouldn't go to sleep, and the twins kept bouncing around in the back seat of the car. Every few minutes they had to have some popcorn, and then some candy, and then — "a drink of water, please, Daddy." Carolyn did take note of the beautiful moon that night, and her thoughts went back to the days when she and Ted were courting. The next thing she remembered the show was over, and Ted was taking the speaker out of the car. "Ted, I've been to sleep; why didn't you awaken me?" Carolyn asked. "You were sleeping so peacefully that I just didn't have the heart." Ted winked at Carolyn. The next day started out the same way for Carolyn, and she didn't have a spare minute to visit with Barbara. Suddenly, it occurred to Carolyn that Cathy's second birthday came the end of the week. "We'll have to have a little family party," she mused. When the twins came home from school, Carolyn told them of her plans, and they eagerly helped her plan the occasion, 37 The night of the party finally arrived, and little Cathy was proud and happy. She laughed and talked and tried to blow out the candles on the cake which Carolyn had taken so much time decorating. Carolyn looked around at the happy, laughing faces of her little family, and she knew that every moment of exhausting work was worth it. What would she ever do without them? 'hey were more precious than riches. Just then a knock came to the door, and when Carolyn answered it, Barbara stood before her. Barbara looked around at the gaily decorated table, at the cake with its two single candles and one to grow on, and at the brightly wrapped presents on the table. "Oh, Pm sorry, Carolyn, I didn't know that you were having a party. It's just that I." There were tears in her eyes as she spoke. "I get so lonesome when Chris isn't there. Oh, Carolyn, you have so very much to be thankful for." Carolyn thought with amazement, all this time I have been admiring her beautiful things, she has been wanting what I have. She took Barbara by the arm and led her into the dining room. "Im so happy that you came, Barbara. You're just in time to have some cake and ice cream with us. Little Cathy will be delighted, too. She loves visitors." As Carolyn set a place for Barbara, she turned toward 'Ted and gave him a radiant smile that said, "Thank you for all the happiness that we have together."