[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
First  Week  in  February. 
THE  ABRAHAMIC  AGE. 
According  to  Taine,  a  noted  French  critic,  there  are  three 
different  things  which  produce  the  "elementary  moral  state"  of  a 
people :  race,  surroundings,  and  epoch. 
By  race  he  means  the  "internal  structure"  of  a  people,  that 
inherent  nature  and  disposition  "which  man  brings  with  him  into 
the  world,"  and  which  makes  the  different  kinds  of  men  we  see 
all  around  us.  "There  is  a  natural  variety  of  men,  as  of  oxen 
and  horses,  some  brave  and  intelligent,  some  timid  and  depend- 
ent, some  capable  of  superior  conceptions  and  creations,  some 
reduced  to  rudimentary  ideas  and  inventions." 
By  surroundings  Taine  means  whatever  goes  to  influence  a 
people  from  without.  "The  profound  differences  which  are 
manifest  between  the  German  races,  on  the  one  side,  and  the 
Latin  and  the  Greek,  on  the  other  side,  arise  for  the  most  part 
from  the  differences  between  the  countries  in  which  they  are  set- 
tled: some  in  cold,  moist  lands,  deep  in  rugged,  marshy  forests 
or  on  the  shores  of  a  wild  ocean,  beset  by  melancholy  or  violent 
sensations,  prone  to  drunkenness  and  gluttony,  bent  on  a  fighting, 
blood-spilling  life ;  others,  again,  within  the  loveliest  landscapes, 
on  a  bright  and  pleasant  sea-coast,  enticed  to  navigation  and  com- 
merce, exempt  from  gross  cravings  of  the  stomach,  inclined  from 
the  beginning  to  social  ways,  to  a  settled  organization  of  the 
state,  to  feelings  and  dispositions  such  as  develop  the  art  of 
oratory,  the  talent  for  enjoyment,  the  inventions,  letters,  arts." 
By  epochs  he  means  whatever  happens  to  a  race  in  its  environ- 
ment. 
Now,  in  Abraham  and  Sarah  the  Lord  chose  a  man  and  a 
woman  through  whom  to  begin  a  new  people  or  nation.  Abra- 
ham, we  are  told,  was  one  of  "the  noble  and  great  ones,"  among 
the  pre-existent  intelligences;  and,  no  doubt.  Sarah  was  a  fii 
helpmate  for  such  a  man.  The  Hebrew  race  had  therefore  the 
"inherent'  structure"  necessary  for  a  great  people. 
But  the  Lord  did  more  than  choose  a  worthy  foundation  for 
a  great  people.     He  took  Abraham  and  Sarah  out  of  their  native