[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Northwestern States Mission. This picture of the Spokane Relief Society was taken after a work-day meeting held at the home of Mrs. Amelia Guff, President of the Society. Mrs. Guff and her first counselor, Florence Stadelmann, both recently resigned on account of ill health, and Mrs. Julia Miller has been appointed president, with Mrs. Mary Sorenson and Mrs. Pauline Van Cleave as counselors. Mrs. Cora Guff is the secretary, and Mrs. Nellie Kinrade is treasurer. Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, President of the Northwestern States Relief Society, reports a very successful convention held in the Montana Cooference at Butte. The following interesting items were among those reported: In the Butte Society there are fourteen members enrolled, all of whom are subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine, which makes a l00% ward in that respect. The average attendance is eight. In Anaconda, 50% of the members are subscribers of the Magazine. The Great Falls Society, organized on April 24th. has a membership of five and has a good attendance at the weekly meetings. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 31 The Helena Society has a membership of eight, average attendance of five. The Dillon branch has, during the year, made eleven quilts and eleven articles of clothing. The Lima Society, just organized, has held only three meetings and has four subscriptions for the Magazine. Eastern States Mission. Sunday, September 24th, was observed in all the branches of the Eastern. States Mission as Genealogical Day. This observance was greatly appreciated by the Relief Society in the Mission, and gave a new impetus to its work. The New York and Brooklyn Relief Societies have been combined into one society, with the following officers: President, Mrs. Bertha Eccles Wright; First Counselor, Mrs. Leona Monson; Second Counselor, Carmen Benson; Secretary, Janetle Easton. A branch of the Relief Society has recently been organized in Albany, New York. The members are taking great interest in their Guide work, and are making use of the splendid genealogical library in the Educational Building of that city. This branch is the infant organization of the Mission, and is. composed of a mere handful of members, but they are very energetic, and are determined to make a success of their Society. The Pittsburg, Pa., Relief Society recently held a bazaar, at which they sold quilts, aprons, and art needle work. During the day, two meals were served. The total receipts were $73.00. After the expenses, which amounted to $15, were taken out, the Society had a balance of $58.00. This is an excellent showing, and especially when we take into consideration that this Society was organized last May, and has an organization of only fifteen members. The West Virginia Society has devoted most of the summer to the making of quilts, and children's dresses for those who suffered the loss of home and property in the spring floods in that locality. Northern States Mission. The Detroit Branch of the Northern States Mission reports some interesting items connected with their summer work. During the months of July and August, a special reading course was provided by the eight members, fifteen books and 335 articles being read by them. Most of this reading was done at home, and was reported and discussed at the meetings. Among the books and articles read were Elias, by O. F. Whitney; Rational Theology, by John A. Widtsoe, and The Other Wise Man, by Van Dyke, and such articles as Senator Reed Smoot's article on "Home Economics," Bulletins on Parental Care, Meats, 
 Canned Fruits, and Jellies, Food for the Young, Infantile Paralysis, etc. In a letter from this Mission, we learn that a Mrs. Nogle of Grand Rapids, Michigan, has sent in for Temple purposes $15.00, which she earned picking cucumbers on shares. Mrs. Flora F. Brinkerhoff, President of the Munsey, Ind., Society, writes of a little plan adopted by her organization to raise funds. Each member donated ten cents, and was asked to take the ten cents and make what she could with it in a given length of time. For example, one woman bought one and one-fourth yards of light calico, made three dust-caps and sold each for ten cents, netting thirty cents. She took ten cents of this money and bought one yard of heavy, unbleached muslin, and made a clothespin apron, which she sold for twenty cents. Thus, in a short time, she had made forty cents with the original ten cents as capital. Mrs. Brinkerhoff states that every page of the Magazine is appreciated, and that the contents meet all their needs. Mrs. Georgiana Willard, of Peoria, 111., writes that the MAGAZINE is one of the best papers ever offered for the development of women, adding that the second year is an improvement over the first. Mrs. Bertha Lynday of Indianapolis, Ind., writes appreciatingly of the Theological lessons taken up during the year*. She says, "Our own ideals of true womanhood have been elevate! by the study of these noble women of the Bible who have only too often been underestimated by the sectarian ministers of today." Western States Mission. Mrs. Annie C. Hansen, President of the Boulder, Colorado. Relief Society writes: "We enjoy studying the lessons outlined it-, the Magazine very much. There is a great deal of valuable matter in them. The Magazine, as a whole, is very interesting  so much so. that men are often seen scanning its pages carefully." Snowflake Stake. The Wilford Ward Relief Society has recently sustained a severe loss in the death of their Secretary  Mrs. Adeline H. Savage, a faithful and energetic worker in the organization. Mrs. E. St. Clair Thomas, field secretary of the Congressional Union of the United States, has been in Arizona for some time, soliciting the support of the women of Arizona in the interest of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment. Benson Stake. From one small ward in the Benson stake. $25.00 was raised in one month for the Penny Subscription Fund. Parowan Stake. In some of the wards in the Parowan stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 33 where it has been impossible to get competent teachers for genealogy,- the brethren have assisted with the class work. Curlew Stake. On July 12th, Curlew stake made an excursion to the Logan Temple, taking 64 Relief Society workers. Raft River Stake. In one of the wards in this stake, a Relief Society member has taken care of a family of seven for five months. This family had just emigrated to this country, and was without a home. They were given this kind care until they could get located. Bannock Stake. The hospital at Soda Springs is visited every day by at least one Relief Society member. In Thatcher First ward, a sister who was sick eleven weeks, was taken care of night and day by Relief Society workers. Pocatello Stake. In a recent Temple excursion from this far-away stake, 20 members visited the Logan Temple. In addition to this visit, a fund of $103.00 was left for work to be hired. Special Donation. Ten dollars was recently sent to the General Board, with the following note attached: "For the Poor." As there was no signature it has been impossible to acknowledge the receipt of the same. The General Board takes this method of expressing gratitude and appreciation for this gift. Genealogy. Senator Reed Smoot recently wrote us that he had sent for the Director of the Census  Mr. Samuel L. Rogers  and had explained to him the necessity of changing the present census to contain the names of the individual's parents, date, and place of birth, in accordance with suggestions made by Mr. Duncan McAllister, late Chief Recorder of the Salt Lake Temple. Mr. Rogers was much interested, and promised to take the matter up at once, adding that this could be done without much extra expense. Mr. Rogers will write to Dr. Alvin Plummer, of San Francisco, head of the Public Records Committee of the International Genealogical Federation with that end in view. The Senator explained to Mr. Rogers that our people are very much interested in genealogy, and thus won the instant sympathy and interest of the director. Reports. The report forms of 1916 and the Teachers' Books for 1917, have been sent out to the stake presidents for distribution to the wards. The Stake Secretaries have been asked to return the compiled stake reports to the General Office by January 15th. Teachers' Books. The Teachers' Books are larger and more complete than they were last year. Because they have been enlarged and because of the increase of the price of paper, the books will cost the wards, delivered  10c each. We especially request the teachers to use the books according to the printed instructions therein.