[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Home Evening Entertainment Morg]

Home Evening Entertainment. By Morg. It was Friday evening, and the Arbor family were gathered around the fire in their comfortable living room. The family consisted of Henry Arbor, who was a successful business man and farmer; his wife Jean; Mara, the eldest, a quiet, gentle home girl; Charlie, the tall son who was his father's right hand; Lottie and Ella, the twins, who were attending the county high school; Harold, aged fourteen; Jemima, usually called "Jim," and the last one dearly loved by all whose name was Lilian. "Tonight is our home evening," said Lottie, "and it's mother's turn to take charge." "Goody," said Jim, "we will sure have a dandy time, for mother has been baking something all day. Oh, I nearly told," laughed the happy girl. A knock sounded at the door, and old Sister McDonald was brought in, followed closely by Brother Sandy McNab, the blacksmith, who lived near by. "It's f a braw chair nicht the nicht," said he as he drew up a comfortable chair near the fire. "I know what we are going to have tonight," cried Ella. "Something Scotch!" she continued. "Mother has had on her far-away look all day." "Thinking of the bonny heather hills, and the Scotch bluebells, mother?" queried Charlie. , "Yes," answered his mother with a smile, "and as tonight is the 25th of January, and the anniversary of Robert Burns, the poet, we are going to have a 'Burns' nicht' program." "Ah, now we know why you invited Sister McDonald," said Mara, "she was born near the poet's birthplace, and can tell us all about the Banks and Braes o' Bonny Doon." "We will have our evening worship first," announced father quietly. After their scripture reading and hymn, the family knelt for prayer which was offered reverently by brother Charlie. "We will first sing 'Sweet Afton,' " said mother. "Harold, pass around those copies you made for me yesterday on your typewriter." The tune was quickly found in the Sunday School book, page 224, and all joined in singing the dear old song. Mara then read a brief sketch of the life of the poet Burns, and Sister McDonald told of the humble cot on the banks of the Doon where the poet was born. HOME EVENING ENTERTAINMENT. 25 "Now pa, it's your turn," said mother, and father read "The Cotter's Saturday Night." "It's my turn now," said Lottie. "I'll play my new piece, 'Tarn o'Shanter's Ride,' " and the lively girl danced over to the piano and played it vigorously. "I will tell you about Tarn o'Shanter," said Harold. "We had it in our school books," and the boy told something of the ride of Tarn o'Shanter and his old mare Meg. A tub of apples swimming in water was next brought in and they spent a noisy half hour ducking for them. Brother McNab next took the floor and entertained them with a number of old songs. "There was a lad was born in Kyle." "Scots wha hae," etc., piped the quavering old voice. "Let's all sing 'Comin' Thro' the Rye,'" said Jim, and the jolly crowd gathered around the piano again. After the song Brother McNab brought out some picture postals, and a pleasant half hour was spent among the Banks and Braes o'Bonny Scotland. Refreshments were then served by mother assisted by Mara. Dainty squares of gingerbread, shortbread, scones and currant mead were passed around. The evening's pleasure was brought to an end by singing "Auld Lang Syne." The company formed a circle, crossed and then joined hands, and circled round and round while singing. "I like that," lisped baby Lilian as she danced round in glee. "Bobby Burns is all right," echoed the twins and, "we had a fine time. Next month it will be our turn and we will have a patriotic evening for it's Lincoln's and Washington's birthday." "And Valentine day, too," said Jim sleepily. "Good nicht, and God's blessings on ye for your kindly hospitality," said the visitors as they left the happy family group. RECIPE FOR SWEET MILK SCONES. Add sugar, nutmeg and currants to any good biscuit dough and bake either on griddle or in the oven. CURRANT MEAD. To one quart boiling water, add juice of two lemons, one tumbler of currant jelly, and a little cinnamon or nutmeg. Stir until jelly is well mixed. If not sweet enough add sugar. (Excellent for colds.) "Morg" will be pleased to help you with your programs for home entertainment parties, socials, etc. Address, Entertainment Editor, Relief Society Magazine. Enclose a stamped, addressed envelope.