[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | May | Issue: 10 | Title: Birthday Anniversary, May 3, | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, MAY 3, 1910.
	Most of our readers know the name—sig-
nificant it seems of excellence: Bathsheba
W. Smith; she was born May 3, 1822, and
was eighty-eight on Monday, May 3, 1910,
and the General Board of the Relief Society
gave a party in her honor on that day in
the Relief Society headquarters in the grand
new building.
	It was a very enjoyable affair and quite in
keeping with the lady’s own views of such
occasions; she wanted her own relatives and
particular friends invited. The rooms were
artistically decorated and all the arrange-
ments were made with a view and desire to
honor her, and show reverence to her long
life of labor and usefulness in every sphere
she has been called to fill.
	She looked queenly in her shimmering
white home made silk dress and elegant,
dainty laces and her beautiful smooth white
hair with a real lace scarf gracefully thrown
over her head added much to the stately
dignity of her appearance.
	President John Henry Smith was Master
of Ceremonies and maintained the dignity
of the occasion admirably. Professor John
J. McLellan gave a piano solo and some
other exquisite musical selections; Clive’s
string band were there to add to the musical
part of the program. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, with her beautiful soprano voice,

[Column 2]
sang several old fashioned favorites, “Mary
of Argyle,” “Silver Threads Among the
Gold” and others.
	The exercises began with the hymn “Our
Mountain Home so Dear,” prayer by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Address President
Joseph F. Smith, who spoke most affection-
ately of his dear Aunt Bathsheba, recounting
some of his childhood recollections of the
home his uncle, President George A. Smith,
church historian, and Aunt Bathsheba occu-
pied, to many known now only as the “Old
Historian’s Office; he paid a beautiful trib-
ute to her motherly tenderness and her
many virtues and excellent attributes as
wife, mother, and saint, and alluded to her
Temple work for so many years and her
faithful discharge of religious duties and ob-
ligations as well as all others in family or
public life. He gave some brief reminis-
cences of childhood, and experiences as a
missionary when very young on the Sand-
wich Islands, that were quite pathetic, ex-
pressed himself as deeply interested in the
Relief Society and his ardent desire was to
see it accomplish its great mission and des-
tiny.
	Response: President Bathsheba W. Smith
welcomed the friends and relatives assem-
bled in a few well-chosen words, rejoiced to
see them all under such prosperous circum-
stances, felt she wanted them all to keep
the faith and be true to the covenants they


[Column 1]
had made, she loved the Temple, she was
never absent a day scarcely, nor from her
meetings of the Relief Society, she testified
to the divinity of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and that she had re-
ceived her endowments in his life time, the
only living witness of that ordinance during
the Prophet’s life and she also told the aud-
ience she was the only living witness of that
memorable meeting held in the Masonic
Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois, when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet himself
—she bless d all present and asked the
Lord to bless us and exhorted all present
to be faithful and true, hoped we might
have a good time.
	Music followed: Soprano solo, Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward:—
	When I think of violets, then I think of you;
	When I think of roses, then I think of you;
it was as beautiful as a midsummer dream.
	“The story of a Century,” by Emmeline
B. Wells came next, and a motion was made
and a vote taken that it be published.
	An exquisite piano solo by Professor Mc-
Clellan called forth great applause.
	Remarks by President John Henry Smith
were full of love and tenderness as indeed,
they must be, he having looked upon “Aunt
Bathsheba” as one of his mothers, having
been bereft of his own mother at an early
age, and of a very loving nature; he has al-
ways been like an own son to his ‘Aunties’
and they all sort of lay claim to him; his
eulogy of this lady whose birthday was be-
lng honored was very suggestive of his own
standard of ideal womanhood, and in a way,
a sort of “hero-worship” as applied to wo-
man.
	As there were no notes taken it is quite
impossible to repeat in his own language the
remarks he made, but it was evident he felt
deeply, and what he expressed came from
the man’s heart.
	More music and old-fashioned songs by
Sister Edward, “Mary of Argyle,” and “Sil-
ver Threads Among the Gold,”.
	Some interesting recollections of her grand-
mother were given by Leila Merrill Allen
the eldest grand-daughter of the honored
lady and they were told in a very quaint,
realistic style, and naturally recalled to all
present the sweet simplicity of the early
days, when conditions were very different to
what they are at the present time. An ideal
grandmother certainly was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith to all the little ones, and is today,
not only to those that are now mature men
and women, but to the next generation,who
are as devoted and worshipful and full of
love as were their mothers before them.
	President Anthon H. Lund made some
closing remarks expressing his pleasure in
being present at the 88th birthday party,
and speaking of his acquaintance with Pres-
ident George A. Smith for whom he seemed
to have great love and admiration, alluded
to the beautiful life-work of Sister Bath-
sheba and her devotion to the temple.
	The exercises were dismissed with prayer.
	A social hour followed and the daintiest
refreshments were served by members of the
board assisted by their daughters and a very
pleasant and enjoyable time with music
from the band and piano, and the birthday
party was certainly a happy affair.
	The guest of honor had many gifts and
tokens of love, and flowers in great abund-
ance,a large bouquet of American beauty ros-
es, carnations in great variety and with the
heartiest congratulations of all assembled,

[Column 2]
and earnest wishes for health and happiness
in the days yet to come. Loaded with flow-
ers and beaming with kindness and appreci-
ation the lady of 88 took her leave of the
guests, to retire to her sweet little cottage
embowered in the green vines and shrubbery
of May-time.
	We wish her more happy birthdays
		And years in the House of the Lord:
	With health and prosperity always,
		And all that this earth can afford;
	And at last a glad welcome above,
	With a fulness of joy and of love.	E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
