[The Interest and Beauty of Vegetables by Mary Grant Judd]

THE INTEREST AND BEAUTY OF VEGETABLES Simmons Photo Art Studio
159 A VEGETABLE FAMILY DECORATES THE TABLE a dozen other smaller birds, whose eyes were made of corsage pins, and identical with the first one, all of which were made from the same crooked-necked squash which come in a deep orange color. In front of the birds was a nest of heavy grasses holding their make-believe eggs. The toadstools were summer squash, their stems being cardboard covered with fancy paper. The boat in the picture was a good sized one made of half a banana squash. The rowers were made with carrot bodies, onion heads with clove eyes, and arms of beans. The oars were straws and the sails corn husks.
Another quaint woman's figure had an onion head, summer squash bodice, acorn squash skirt, string bean arms, and a parasol made of half of a small green tomato, supported by a piece of macaroni for the handle.
Other figures not shown in the picture were smaller boats made of scooped out cucumbers. In_ this case the rowers' bodies were made of radishes with tiny onions for heads, and string bean arms. A sweet potato made a realistic fish, and queer-shaped Irish potatoes represented covered wagons. A realistic wheelbarrow had been cut from a green pepper, with carrot slices for wheels. 'Then there was a somewhat grotesque head made from an eggplant with Swiss chard turban (held in place with toothpicks), onion eyes, red finger-pepper nose, and corn kernels for teeth, placed in the slit cut for the mouth. I only hope that my readers will try out some of these ideas for their family gatherings on Thanksgiving day. The children will be especially pleased. 
760 
The Loving Friend of Children (Continued from page 729) take our baby any more, but often came in to caress her and play with her (Ibid., page 67). We are able to fix the approximate date of the above incidents by reading Joseph's history.
There we learn that his infant son, Don Carlos, died at Nauvoo in August 1841. I shall close this article with a brief statement by Bathsheba W. Smith, wife of George A. Smith, the Prophet's cousin, who was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo.
Regarding him she states: In Nauvoo, at his home, while playing with my baby boy, he said that children were the "honor, glory and royal diadem of woman!" <> I Saw Paricutin (Continued from page 741) We wound our way through the hills built of ashes, over the sawtooth lava ridges and then past the skeleton trees. As I slid and bobbed up and down, according to the terrain over which we passed, the grotesque, ghostlike figures with distorted bodies and twisted arms, assumed the mocking motions of my jolting and swaying body. Wearily I closed my eyes only to hear the weird incantations of their smothered young souls. Incredible! I called to Salvadore, "Are you there, Salvadore?" In a calm voice and from a short distance, he answered, "Si, si, Senora, I am here."
Closing my eyes again I now recognized the muchacho's low, minor tones. We stumbled on, arriving at San Juan de las Colchas and our waiting pony owners. While I was being helped down, the little guide extended his hand and in the only English 'word he ever uttered, he said, "Teep?" He clenched the proffered "teep" in his tiny fist and fleetly ran to his father.
Apparently the parent was pleased for he said "bueno" to the lad. Wearily I entered the waiting car. The others followed. We settled down for the arduous return journey, but no one spoke. All of us were completely spent from having witnessed the Great Mother's magnificent travail. Thus I saw Paricutin—the earth's youngest and most obstreperous child. I atin