[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Is Not the Life More Than Meat?" by Mary Grant Judd]

VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED THIRTY YEARS OR MORE Marie T. Moody, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports the long and devoted service of the visiting teachers in her stake: 'During the summer our stake Relief Society held a program in honor of all the women who had served twenty years or more as visiting teachers. 'The program was outstanding and well attended. So numerous were the women who had served twenty years or more, that, in order to secure a good picture, we photographed only those with thirty years or more of service to their credit. Some had served forty-five years and one sister had served fifty years. We appreciate the loyalty and faithfulness of these sisters who are devoted to all phases of Relief Society work." IER DEPARTMENT a c" Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 21—"On to Jerusalem" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 29, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, February 7, 1950
Objective: To show how steadfastly Jesus continued to minister unto people on his road to foreknown Calvary and the cross. Jesus Again Foretells His Death and Resurrection ACH of the three synoptic writers gives a fairly detailed description of the events during the last journey to Jerusalem. The apostles noticed how sad and deeply affected Jesus was and fell behind him in amazement.
They seemed not to understand his plain affirmation that he would be delivered to the Gentiles who "shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again" (Luke 18:33). It was all inconsistent to them.
They knew he was the Christ—the Lord Omnipotent— and could not realize he would be brought into subjection and slain.
They particularly could not understand his prediction that in three days he would be resurrected. The Question of Precedence Again During this solemn and never-tobe-forgotten trip the human side of some of the twelve asserted itself.
Jesus had diligently labored to teach them that service was the true measure of greatness, and yet two of them—James and John—the sons of Zebedee—made the request that they be given seats of eminence.
This request was to be realized when Jesus came into possession of his kingdom.
Matthew records that the request first came from their mother, who was probably the Savior's aunt. (See note 1, end of chapter 29 of the text.) Jesus gave them an impressive lesson and told them plainly that the granting of such a request was the prerogative of his Father (Mark 10:35-45).
They needed, as we all do, to learn this lesson: '""For even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister" (Matt. 20:28). Sight Restored to the Blind Near Jericho As Jesus was leaving Jericho to walk the last fifteen miles of his journey, a blind man asking for alms heard the tramp of the great multitude which was following, and was told "that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by." 'The blind beggar cried: "Jesus, thou Son of David, have mercy on me." 'The title "Son of David" had peculiar significance. It was the salutation given to Joseph  770 by the angel at the time the birth of Jesus was announced to that good man. It meant of royal lineage (Matt. 1:20). It proves that the blind man knew of Jesus and had faith in him.
Some tried to silence the man but he called the louder.
Jesus directed that the man be brought to him.
After a brief conversation the Lord said unto him: "Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee."
Wondrous words of power and faith! The man was healed.
With a heart full of gratitude he glorified God in prayers of thanksgiving (Luke 18:35-43). Zaccheus, the Chief Among the Publicans At Jericho another event occurred, which is worthy of note. The Roman government maintained at this city a staff of collectors of customs, commonly called "publicans."
Chief of these was a Jew named Zaccheus. He had "grown rich" by collecting customs and was unpopular, as were all publicans. He had already been impressed by the teachings of the noted Galilean and had a great desire to see him.
Zaccheus was a small man and could not ordinarily see over the heads of others. So when he knew that Jesus was coming, he ran ahead of the other people and climbed a tree by the side of the road that he might have a better view. When Jesus reached the place, he spoke to the man in the tree: "Zaccheus, make haste, and come down; for today I must abide at thy house." However, the multitude criticized Jesus, saying that he "was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner."
Zaccheus did not deny the charge but, after  he was converted, offered to make restitution if it was found that he owed any man. He vowed to give "half of his goods" to the poor and to restore fourfold anything he had taken wrongfully.
Jesus accepted the man's repentance.
Another wayward son had returned. 'The Lord had come to save sinners; to bring joy to the repentant soul (Luke 19:1-10). Unto Every One That Hath Shall Be Given As Jesus neared Jerusalem, he gave to his followers, who were expecting him to proclaim his royal authority, the Parable of the Pounds. (Read Luke 19:11-27.) The story portrayed a recent incident in Jewish history. (See note 3 at end of chapter 29 of the text.) The Lord used the incident as a basis on which to give the account of the three servants to whom had been entrusted the use of a varying number of pounds and how each had used the money. It is quite apparent that Jesus was the nobleman, invested with the authority of kingship. He is to return and demand an accounting from his trusted servants.
When he does return he will also punish the citizens who rebelled against him. In the House of Simon the Leper The Savior approached Jerusalem a few days before the killing of the lambs which were eaten at the time of the Passover. 'This was the great annual feast of the Jews. It commemorated the sparing of the Hebrews in Egypt when God smote the first-born of the Egyptians (Ex. 1:1-22).
That year the festival LESSON DEPARTMENT probably began on Thursday.
Jesus reached Bethany near Jerusalem on the end of the Jewish Sabbath.
Jesus knew that it was his last Sabbath on earth and he chose to spend it with those he loved. Out of reverence, the writers do not tell of the happenings of that day. It was probably in the evening after the Sabbath had passed that a supper was given for Jesus and the twelve at the home of Simon the leper.
Undoubtedly this man had been cured.
Some wniters assume that the house was the family home of Lazarus and Martha and Mary.
Simon may have been: their father, but of that there is no proof.
Martha evidently had charge of the supper and Mary and Lazarus were there. In fact, Lazarus had been marked for death by the chief A Perry Picture 77 priests because of the interest following his restoration to life.
Mary had brought to the gathering a sealed flask containing a pound of costly spikenard ointment. It was very fragrant and is said to have had a value of about forty-five dollars. When Mary had used this precious ointment to anoint the head and feet of the Lord, Judas Iscariot, treasurer of the twelve, and others, protested against such extravagance.
Judas was dishonest and hypocritical and asked why the ointment was not sold and the money given to the poor. By way of solemn instructions Jesus said: For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel From a Painting by Plockhorst CHRIST'S ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM 772 shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her (Matt. 26:11-13). How true were these words! Christ's Triumphal Entry Into Jerusalem The next day after the eventful supper, Jesus told two of his disciples to go to a certain place and they would find an ass tied and with her a colt on which no man had ridden. The disciples found the animals as directed and when they had brought the colt, and spread their coats on his back, Jesus was lifted on to the young animal. The Master rode toward Jerusalem.
When the group arrived the city was thronged, although it was four days before the great festival. The common people were interested in every movement of the Savior and there was gteat rejoicing when he appeared on the outskirts of the city. The people threw palm leaves and flowers before him and even spread their garments on the streets before him. 'Truly they were carpeting the way for a King.
They shouted, among other glad calls: "Hosanna to the Son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest" (Matt. 21:9).
Amid all the rejoicing Jesus was sad.
When he saw Jerusalem and the temple of the Lord, he wept and prophesied of the destruction of both.
When he rode into the capital, the people were thrilled. The uninformed cried, "Who is this?" And the multitude shouted "This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee" (Matt. 21:10-11). The Pharisees and chief priests  resented bitterly the honor being shown the Lord. "The purpose of Christ in thus yielding Himself for the day to the desires of the people and accepting their homage with kingly grace may not be fully comprehended by us of finite mind." The Roman officials seemed to treat it with indulgent unconcern. When Jesus dismounted and entered the temple enclosure the people continued to shout his praises. Truly, the Prince of Peace had entered the city and temple as befitted a king of Israel. His coming fulfilled prophecy (Zech. 9:9). Certain Greeks Visit Christ During practically all of the Savior's ministry he worked among the Jews. However, people of many nations came to Jerusalem at the time of the annual Passover.
Some of these, though not of Jewish descent, had been converted to Judaism.
Among these people were certain Greeks who desired to talk with Jesus.
They did not think it proper to approach the Master directly, so went first to Philip, one of the apostles.
Philip consulted with Andrew, and the two informed Jesus that the foreign visitors sought an interview with him.
Jesus bore testimony to these men that the hour of his death was near.
They were surprised at his words, and he explained that it was necessary for him to make this sacrifice. (See John 12:20-28.) Those who really love the Lord will give their lives, if necessary, for his sake. Let us at least live for him. The Voice From Heaven The sinful condition of the world and the terrible experiences through LESSON DEPARTMENT which he was about to pass, weighed heavily upon the Lord's soul. In anguish he groaned: "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say?" A mighty soul arose to meet an issue of transcendent importance. He prayed: "Father, glorify thy name." To that prayer came an answer: "Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again." (Read John 12:27-36 and John 14:27-31.) "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you" (John 14:27). " And his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace" (Isaiah 9:6).
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
What peculiarly human request did 773 two of the apostles make of Jesus during his last journey to Jerusalem?
What great _ lesson can we learn from his answer to them? 2.
Relate the event of the healing of the blind at Jericho.
Show that the blind beggar really appreciated the blessing. 3.
Tell of the circumstances leading to the conversion of Zaccheus.
What is the evidence of true conversion? 4. Is repentance complete without trestitution, where restitution is possible? 5. Why do you think Mary was justified in anointing Jesus with the costly spikenard?
References in the Four Gospels Matt. 8:28; 16:21; 17:22, 23; 20:17-34; 2121-11; 25:14-30; 26:6-13. Mark 8:31; 9:31; 10:32-52; 12:1-11; 14:3-9. Luke 7:36-50; 9:44; 10:40-42; 18: 3 BaP ee John 12:1-8, 20-36. Et Visiting Seacher Tlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 5—"Is Not the Life More Than Meat, and the Body Than Raiment?" (Matt. 6:25) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, February 7, 1950
Objective: To emphasize that there is a larger life than that of the body, namely that of the spirit. HEN, in the course of the Sermon on the Mount, Christ presented the question "Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment?" (Matt 6:25) to his listeners, he was, undoubtedly, not objecting to man's striving for the requirements necessary to physical well-being. The decree to Adam that "in the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread' has come down through the ages. It was valid in the time of our Savior; it holds good today. A cardinal principle of the present Church Welfare Plan confirms the dignity of work and points out that individuals, insofar as possible, should labor for their own 774 sustenance. For, as the proverb says: "in all labor there is profit" (Prov. 14:23). When Christ asked "Is not the life more than meat?" he was pointing out that, while it is necessary to provide for our daily reeds, we must not stop there, but go on from the life of the body to the larger life of the spirit. How many people do you know who are content to spend their time "getting and spending," as the poet Wordsworth termed it, with little thought for those larger values of life which are so much more important than mere living from day to day?
When he declared the body more than raiment, Christ was warning against the identification of self with material things. How easy it is to feel superior because we have acquired worldly wealth.
When we don fine wearing apparel, we move  with greater confidence and ease among our friends. As we speed down the street in a new car is our egotism heightened to note the admiring glances of our neighbors?
When one builds a large home and furnishes it beautifully, is this, partly at least, to impress those who view it? Yet, in the final analysis, how unimportant these material things are. For, as we well understand, when we leave this life, we can take with us only the sum total of the good we have accomplished and the knowledge we have acquired. And so it is right and proper that Jesus should tell us to put greater emphasis on spiritual, rather than on material values. "Seek ye first," he says, "the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these [physical things] shall be added unto you" (Matt. 6:33). <-> Work IT leeting—Sewing Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at