[Literature: Sir Francis Bacon by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Elder Briant S. Jacobs Lesson 5—Sir Francis Bacon For Tuesday, February 21, 1950 A we have already pointed out in our discussions of Shakespeare and the King James Bible, the age of Flizabeth has never been surpassed, neither in the fresh vigor which it stamped upon every phase of English life, mor in the correspondingly rich literature which inevitably the Flizabethans wrote to record the lavish flowering of the spirit which was theirs.
After having been enslaved throughout Europe during the dark centuries of supervised ignorance and the smothering dogmas of church and state, men's wills and emotions and intellects suddenly awakened and arose as One. Magnificently, these pent-up powers defied the traditional absolutes of politics and religion to continue to break their spits which, for ages, had been withered, crooked, and starved. Magnificently, these sons of the Renaissance, Or Te awakening, gave to their fellows throughout all time the great vision of men exercising wills that are free, emotions that are pure and honest, and intellects determined to give man dominion over the natural world which he had always misunderstood and hence always feared. And of those who dreamed most nobly of man's raising himself to his destined realm of light by reaching down and lifting himself by his own intellectual bootstraps, Jet the name of Francis Bacon be first. Son of the lord keeper of the great seal of Queen Elizabeth, Bacon was reared amid court influences.
After studying at Cambridge, he first served his government at age fifteen 'n the English embassy in France.
Upon completing three years service he returned home intensely ampitious for political advancement.
Unable to impress Queen Elizabeth favorably, he studied law at Gray's Inn and soon thereafter became 4 member of Parliament and advisor to the Queen. When James I be came King, Bacon was knighted.
Almost at once it became apparent that the new monarch, weak-willed and amateur scholar that he was, found in Bacon's flattery and intellectual genius much to be rewarded.
Bacon was elevated to AttorneyGeneral, and finally became Chancellor of England; he was also made Baron Verulam and Viscount of St. Albans. Yet, despite this whirlwind rise to political and social eminence, he felt that his true carect had scarcely begun. And so it had, for always he regarded his political achievements merely as useful tools to assist him in realizing his heart's desire: the writing and publication of a systematic definition and atrangement of all human knowledge and truth.
This was a project unrivalled in its ambition and magnitude by any man since Aristotle (384-322 B. C.). In 1586, at the age of twenty-five, LESSON DEPARTMENT Bacon first defined this great idea and dedicated his life to its achievement. 'Ten years later he pointed out to his kinsman, Lord Burleigh, that his civil goals were but moderate when compared to his contemplative goals, since in the realm of the intellect he had "taken all knowledge" to be his province.
Seven years later, in 1603, he wrote that he had found himself "fitted for nothing so well as for the study of Truth." It was Bacon's resulting philosophical writings which, in Macaulay's phrase, "moved the intellects which moved the world." All his important philosophical works were but segments of his Magna Instauratio, or great renewal of scientific and intellectual knowledge. It was in these writings, particularly his Advancement of Learning and Novum Organum, or new principles, that Bacon "announced that Europe had come of age." Here, for the first time, in the works of this first great English philosopher, we have expressed the tone and principles of the same modern science which has done so much to conquer the natural world in which we live. Here, not because of any scientific techniques or discoveries, but because of his revolutionary ideas as to what science should be and how it should be used, we read the words which made Bacon the father of modern science.
Most of all Bacon believed in human reason.
Disregarding tradition, he hoped to shatter the influence of the past and to aid man in conquering the realm of nature by using his own intellect.
Significant is one of his favorite sayings, 777 "Knowledge is power." A new and vital part of his credo was that knowledge should not be sought merely to entertain the speculative medieval scholar; instead scientists should seek out the secrets of nature in order that new discoveries might be used at once to control and overpower nature. Let us learn the laws of nature, and we shall be her masters, as we are now, in ignorance, her thralls; science is the road to Utopia. (Advancement of Learning, iv, 2) But before science could be trusted so completely, Bacon had to tredefine the methods science should use in the search for truth. In place of the deductive logic of Aristotle, which had entirely dominated the scholarship of the Middle Ages, Bacon preached fervently that the method of science must be inductive.
Instead of reasoning from one or two facts or premises to prove a third unknown, Bacon, as does the modern scientist, believed that one can arrive at a general truth only after a mass of general fact has been assembled and most carefully examined.
With the method of science thus defined, Bacon was ready to point out another reason why the sciences had made but little progress. It is not possible to run a course aright when the goal itself has not been rightly placed. Now the true and lawful goal of the sciences is none other than this: that human life be endowed with new discoveries and powers. (Novum Organum, I, Ixxxi) The supreme conviction of Bacon's life was that by using reason 778 and the scientific method, man js best capable of subduing the world about him. Men are not animals erect, but immortal gods. The Creator has given us souls equal to all the world, and yet satiable not even with a world... - Everything is possible to man.
Time ls young; give us some little centuries, and we shall control and remake all things.
Bacon hoped first to "seat the sciences each in its proper place" (Advancement of Learning, iv, 2), next to develop the inductive scien.
Tific method for defining the forces of nature, and finally to evaluate all nature by using such a procedure. In the prophetic New Atlantis, fictional treatment of his Utopia which was left unfinished at his death, Bacon presented his ideal method for achieving his goals: he visualized a society of learned scholars called Solomon's House, or the College of the Six Days' Work, who cach twelve years were to be sent throughout the world by their wise king to "maintain a trade, not for gold, silver, or jewels... But only for God's first creature, which was light: to have light, I say, of the growth of all parts of the world." (See Text, pp. 562-3, line 4o ff.) That he spoke for the intellectual leaders of England was proved in 1662 when, thirty-five years after the New Atlantis was published, the Royal Society was founded. This Was a group of the best scientists umited in the common cause of Searching out the truths of natural history in precisely the same manner as Bacon's scholars in Solomon's House would have done.
Surely there could be no greater tribute to the intellectual zeal and scientific  pioneering which then, as now, characterized Bacon _ before the world. It is unfortunately true that some of our great men understood wisdom with their heads but not with their hearts and wills, Of this truth Sir Francis Bacon is the traditional example. "They that take the sword shall perish with the sword" (Matthew 26:52). Although Bacon professed membership in the Church of England, was interested in church reform, and wrote several] beautiful prayers for his Own use, pumarily he loved the intellect alone.
Bacon served learning and the learned; but his accusation of his friend Essex in order to obtain favor with Queen Elizabeth; his confession of having accepted bribes when in high office without the ability to express remorse or sense of guilt for the tragedy of his sin; his selfrighteousness; and_ his continued ability to sacrifice personal connections and, in part, his own integrity whenever he felt such action would please the sovereign and his own ambition—all seem to give evidence that he failed to honor the emotional and spiritual aspects of himself and his fellow men, a failure which finally betrayed Bacon himself. | In 1621, after confessing his guilt In accepting bribes, Bacon was deprived of the Great Seal, fined forty thousand pounds, relieved of al] public office, and sentenced to the Tower of London, from which he was released by the King after four days.
During the last five years of his life he lived in retirement, writing the major portion of his enduring contributions to science and LESSON DEPARTMENT Philosophy, More than any other worked over hi Intellectya] Tesourc man, he Opened the door 'to oy €s, never discarding he g d, never Modern scientific orld; his Essa Permitting the hazy, 2Y words to will a Ways represent English Prose stan a result Essays are at its be Yet, we might 48T€e famous for their brillian ©; rarely has that Alexander Pope was Neither pros said so much IN so little Space entirely Nght nor ntirely wrong Here Is the co densed Intellect of When he €scribed Sir Francis Ba. S€nlus skilled seeing things gs Con as "the Wisest, brightest, meanth are, Henry p vid Thoreay est of man ind," has defineg §00d writin as "con.
Vetsation fold Many times thick." Bacon's Essays ideally these Eysq exemplify his We are "nurely just jn Consider. Definition, ddition Bacon's Ng Bacon's Essays after having disCONCiseness Statement and his Cussed Philosophica] Writings, brilliant USe Of poetic im for to Bacon his Essays were always illustrate his po; Seconda All hj Point, his style is con Works sistently logi dvancemen} of L ecti an e Plaises of learn. Pressly (forcefy Written in Eno]; neatly, more ] Y), or Suffered ] |- N€ss, less idleness In Nglish, he lat nto La in | € constan tly € origi 780 dom and, for the man who most of all desires to get on in the world, undeniable common sense. 'The truths which they tell about things as they are, often wittily expressed in a condensed, near-staccato style, blend together in these essays to become reading which will be fresh and rewarding as long as men are human. As we read from Novum Organum (Text, pp. 560-561) of the four idols which beset the human mind, we realize that Bacon knows people and their foolish weaknesses. 'The following epigram, taken from "Of Sedition and Troubles" (not in our text) also reveals his wit and wisdom, and knowledge of things as they are: Money is like muck, not good unless it be spread. The twelve essays in our text abound in such memorable lines.
Some of the best known are: Certainly virtue is like precious odors, most fragrant when they are incensed or crushed: for prosperity doth best discover vice; but adversity doth best discover virtue. ("Of Adversity'' ) Choose the best; habit will make it pleasant and easy. ("Of Parents and Children' ) He that hath wife and children hath given hostages to fortune; for they are impediments to great enterprises, either of virtue or mischief. ("Of Marriage and Single Life'') It is a strange desire, to seek power and to love liberty; or to seek power over others and to lose power over a man's self. ("Of Great Place" ) Certainly, men in great fortunes are strangers to themselves, and while they  are in the puzzle of business they have no time to tend their health, either of body or mind. ("Of Great Place') For good thoughts (though God accept them) yet towards men are little better than good dreams, except they be put in act. ("Of Great Place") After a time, set before thee thine own example; and examine thyself strictly, whether thou didst not best at first. ("Of Great Place') And certainly it is the nature of extreme self-lovers, as they will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast their eggs. ("Of Wisdom for a Man's Self') Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested. ("Of Study'') Reading maketh a full man; conference a ready man; and writing an exact man. ("Of Studies"') Once our minds arise from their leisurely, everyday meanderings to meet these Essays on their own high level, once we give Ourselves to them with no restraint and no distraction, we find in them a compelling intensity which ever leads us on. Further, here is that undefinable, undeniable lofty tone which is the autograph of great literature. NOTE TO TEACHERS: While you will want to share the above lines with your group, you should also read thoroughly with them one or two of the essays which appeal most to you. If you haven't time to read them all, "Of Truth," "Of Studies," "Of Great Place," and "Of Adversity," might, in this order, prove: most rewarding. However, you cannot go wrong if you discuss in detail that essay which is most nearly yours. Questions 1.
What was the great idea in Bacon's life? 2.
Inasmuch as he was in practice and LESSON DEPARTMENT technique not an important scientist, how does Bacon deserve to be called the father of modern science? 3. Relate Solomon's House to the Royal Society. 4. How can we apply to Bacon the Saying, "They that take the sword shall perish with the sword?" 5. Why were Bacon's philosophical ' works written in Latin? 781 6. Why were the Essays never written or translated into Latin? 7- To what small audience were the Essays addressed? 8. Are the Essays formal or informal? How can you decide this from Teading them? G.
Aside from their stylistic excellence, why are the Essays great literature? —— Social Scéience—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 4—Public Administration and Good Government—(D. & C. 134:3, 4) Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, F ebruary 28, 1950
Objective: To uphold freedom. Public Administration ig is important to have a good government, that is, one which conforms, as far as possible, to the fundamental _ principles previously discussed. Then, government becomes a fit instrument in securing "the good and safety of society." However, day by day, governments are administering thousands of details affecting the lives of millions of people. The enforcement of the law, the administration of governmental policy, is generally called "public administration." The problems of public administration are among the most important of any modern society. The problem of regulating traffic, of Inspecting and maintaining milk at a pure standard, the administration of schools, the building of highways, the protection of life and property—these are only a few of the many tasks undertaken by public administration.
Point out the need for electing government officials who will Government Personnel There are many fundamental _ problems in public administration apart from the organization of government itself.
These problems concern largely the matter of personnel.
Officers must be recruited.
Once in office they have the great responsibility of deciding what the law means, when to enforce it, and upon whom to enforce it, Verse three affords an insight into the basic principles which should govern these important problems: We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign.
This recognizes the necessity and the importance of civil officers and magistrates. During World War II, the United States Government, alone, employed over 3,000,000 civil 782 servants, that is, civil officers exclusive of elected, military, naval, legislative, or judicial officers. 'This does not include the forty-eight states, nor their counties and cities.
What should be the method of their administration? The controlling principle is that "such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld."
Meaning of "Equity and Justice" What is equity?
What is justice?
These are often difficult questions in our time. It would be profitable to discuss in every class the question as to what is justice for the working man, for the business leaders, for the members of a minority religious sect, for the members of a dominant religious sect, for alien races, for the various types of people who occupy a place in our civil society. The answers to these questions have obsessed mankind for generations. Is it possible to cut through this mass of speculation and arrive at some foundation principles as guides to equity and justice? The Declaration would suggest that equity and justice would begin with a system of administration which would recognize the fundamental conditions of peace previously discussed. The free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life, at least, are fundamental.
Qualifications for Public Officers Who should be selected for public officers? 'The suggestion made in verse three is that those who will  administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people, if a republic, or the will of a sovereign. It would be very difficult, of course, for the people of the United States, _ for example, to elect the three million civil servants who served the United States Government from 1942-1945. Then, in addition, to elect the additional millions who work for the forty-eight states, the three thousand and fifty-odd counties, the hundred and_ thirty-two thousand cities and towns, and the other units of government which constitute the American governmental system! However, it is possible to seek and uphold persons who "will administer the law in equity and justice" by means of the civil service examinations and other devices used in American and other governments.
Popular election, of course, is desirable for all elected representatives and those who serve in top executive positions. In other circumstances, and in filling the lesser positions, regulations must, of course, be followed. But back of all law, including civil service law, is public opinion. If the public is apathetic, it is impossible to secure officers who will administer the law in equity and justice. How well informed is your class on the method of safeguarding the purity of the water supply, the milk supply, the meat supply, in your community?
What officers are administering these laws? Is it being done with equity and justice? Do you know their names? Are they qualified to do their work?
When they are performing their work well, LESSON DEPARTMENT Being Informed on Blic Administra tion the ethics and manner of Public administration the great fund individual tights and issue of socialism. The Socialists many things Private hands are contro]. How far this Process should §90 and at damenta] 'Conditions of Peace" discusseq in L, and State. The Problem of State, as it appears in Politica] science, is 4 historical ex. Churches, and free Associations of Various sorts. "sponsible to Gog for the EXEIcise of conscience.
Referred to this this reference, ethics become the 784 mere opinions of men, Americans or others, with resort to force as the threatening reference point.
When the State intervenes in the economic order, this value must be recognized. If the conscience, the religious conscience, of man, is free, then there will always be room for the eventual right of control of property and the protection of life. If human law is prevented from prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of man, "nor dictate forms for public or private devotion" then there is a sphere of freedom in which men may live their lives.
Need for People to Support Freedom Constitutions are the great preventive influence, but constitutions are valueless without support from the people and the political powers that be. True, the civil magistrate should restrain crime "but never control conscience"; should punish guilt but never suppress the freedom of the soul.
This requires popular support. If there is freedom of religious conscience and freedom of the soul, there will probably be freedom for two or more political parties. If there is freedom for two or more political parties, there is freedom in the choice of public officers to enforce the law. If there is freedom to choose these officers, there is also freedom for the people to exercise their right and seek for men in public life who will administer the law in equity and justice.
Without this freedom, there will be no essential freedom—and no peace. 
Belief in God Necessary for Good Government In conclusion, it can be stated, that if you destroy belief in God, you destroy belief in the necessity of religious liberty. Decline in belief in God is one of the great forces aiding and abetting Communism. Religious and _ political liberty without belief in God soon become meaningless, because they depend upon mere human toleration, man looking to man. Unless man looks to man as a child of God and then looks beyond and outside of himself for something greater, he may become a menace, a materialistic menace to society. Human toleration without belief in God ls subject to political pleasure, as witness the dictatorships. In short, if you destroy God you destroy the possibility of political ethics having any vitality in government. In its stead, force, and force alone, remains. Force is the tool of the devil. Of such, the Declaration warns, and men should beware. Questions for Discussion and Lesson Helps Special Project: Have someone look up and report the number of offices becoming vacant which will appear on your local ballot at the next general election, describing briefly, the functions of each office. 1. Although all people have the rnght to their own opinions in such matters, who is it that actually (in the bulk of cases) decides what the law means, when to enforce it, and whom to enforce it upon? 2. Have someone look up "equity" in a standard dictionary. Having done this, ask the class to discuss the meaning of "equity" as contained in section 134, verse 3.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. What is justice? Discuss the principle as suggested in the lesson. 4. How do you suppose the ordinary man's view of justice is formed? Compare this with the concept of the class as to how God, our Father, probably determines and applies justice. 5. What is the relation between public opinion and the administration of "justice?" 785 6. Why is belief in God 'essential to good government? 7. When the butcher sells you a roast and leans a heavy thumb on the scale or includes a large piece of bone at 97c a pound, is he visualizing you as a "child of God" or Mrs. John Customer "from down the street?" 8. Again, is belief in God essential to good government, to justice and equity? Optional Mostar in hiteu of Social eienee-—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 11—The Counselors to President Heber J. Grant Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, February 28, 1950 THe Presipency A Unrr—THE THREE ARE ONE HEN Heber J. Grant was appointed as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator and President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in 1918, he retained the same counselors who had _ served President Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, a man of great character and forceful personality, then in his seventy-fifth year of life, became first counselor. President Grant also appointed him to the responsible position of president of the Salt Lake Temple. He also, by virtue of seniority, became president of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. President Lund vigorously fulfilled his three-fold assignment—counselor in the First Presidency, temple president, and senior apostle. 'These duties he discharged with honor until his death on March 2, 1921, when the Church mourned the passing of a great man and a devoted servant of the Lord. Charles William Penrose The second counselor of President Grant was Charles William Penrose, who was then eighty-six years of age. He was in excellent health and highly respected by both the members of the Church and his numerous acquaintances outside the Church. The years preceding his selection by President Grant had been years of preparation and service for his high calling. President 

786  CHARLES W. PEN ROSE Penrose was born in Camberwell, London, England, on February 4, 1832, Ata very early age he manifested three unusual traits. First, he was a lover of books, showing a desire to acquire knowledge. Second, he learned to read at an age when most children are concerned entirely with eating and playing.
When only four years of age he read the entire Bible, Third, he possessed an unusual memory, being capable of retaining information that he acquired in a very remarkable fashion.
During his youth, President PenTose studied the scriptures diligently and, as a result of this study, became dissatisfied with the existing sects of Christendom, being unable to find in them either the religion or the church organization that he read of in the Bible.
When he was eightcen years of age he came in contact with the restored gospel and, finding it in agreement with the Bible, was baptized a member of the Church on May 14, 1850. The following January, a month before he was nineteen years of age, he was called on a mission to labor within the British Isles. He had no fjnancial backing, but the Lord provided him with friends and for ten years he labored in Great Britain. The first seven years he was assigned to agricultural areas, and then became President of the Lon. Don district and held other administrative posts in the British Mission. He was a wonderful preacher, being gifted with a powerful, yet pleasIng voice, and 4 fluency of words that enabled him to convince people of his sincerity as well as his ideas, His use of English was unique. He seldom resorted to the use of long or little-used words, but confined himself to the simplest of words in order that the uneducated could gtasp the meaning of his message. Yet there is a gtandeur of thought in his style that manifests the soul of a poet.
While engaged as a missionary, President Penrose contributed many articles to the Mil lenial Star dealing with theological and religious Problems. He also wrote poems for its pages. As the years passed, he longed to gather with the saints in Zion, but year after year his release failed to come.
It was then that he wrote ''O Ye
Mountains High." In this song he expressed his longing to be with the body of the Church and be able to serve both the living and the dead.
On another occasion when he had been slandered and false accusations had been made against him, he wrote ''School Thy Feelings, O My Brother." It was a warning to himself that the Christian thing to do

LESSON DEPARTMENT
787 was not to retaliate but to bear the persecution and abuse as Christ would have done.
He was finally released in 1861, and emigrated to Utah, settling first at Farmington, where he had to turn from the literary and cultural pursuits that had characterized his life up to this time, and adjust to the hardships of farming and manual labor. This he willingly did and also taught school for three years.
In 1864, he settled in Cache Valley, but the following year he was called again to go on a mission to England, where he served until 1868.
His greatest gifts were in the field of mental activities rather than in pioneering, and, in 1870, he moved to Ogden, Utah, where he engaged in newspaper work and represented
Weber County in the Territorial
Legislature and also in constitutional conventions that were seeking to acquire statehood for the Territory of Utah.
In 1877, Brigham Young persuaded him to come to Salt Lake
City and join the staff of The Deseiet News. Very soon his gifted pen was improving the quality of tiiat paper and making its editorials sparkle with thought-provoking comments. In 1880, he was made editor-in-chief of The Deseiet NewSy a position he held for the ensuing twelve years. During this time he was often in Washington, D. C, where he worked to secure statehood for Utah and also worked for the interests of the Church.
Charles W. Penrose later accepted employment as editor-in-chief of the Salt Lake Herald, and for four years devoted his talents to promoting this paper. President Wilford
Woodruff appointed him to the position of assistant Church historian.
He then devoted his energies to the work of this office and, in addition, wrote articles for the Church periodicals and for use in the mission fields of the Church. Most noteworthy of his efforts in this respect was the writing of a series of twelve tracts known as ''Rays of Living
Light." These tracts have been translated into many languages and distributed widely. Millions of them have been used and, so effective are they, that even after more than half a century they are still used by our missionaries. For several years, commencing again in 1899, Elder Penrose was editor-in-chief of The Deseret News and wrote ably and forcefully about world and Church problems.
During these years of literary activity, he had not neglected the gospel cause that had brought him to the valleys of the mountains. He served as a local missionary, taught in Sunday Schools and, in 1884, was chosen as a counselor in the Salt
Lake Stake presidency. In June of 1904, President Joseph F. Smith selected him as a member of the Church Board of Education and the following month he was chosen to fill a vacancy in the Council of the Twelve.
From December 1906 until June
1910, Charles W. Penrose served as president of the European Mission, with headquarters in Liverpool, England. He supervised the missionary work both in Great Britain and on the Continent of Europe. During this time more than 25,000,000 tracts were distributed and 8,441 baptisms performed.

788
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER 1949
When President John Henry
Smith died in 1911, Elder Penrose was selected to fill the vacancy in the First Presidency. He was set apart to this office on December 7,
1911, and although he was just two months less than eighty years of age, he had a powerful and vigorous personality. Immediately he threw himself with characteristic energy into the work of the Presidency and became an able assistant to President Smith. He traveled widely in the interests of the Church, visiting the wards and stakes, and took an active part in acquiring possession for the Church of some of the landmarks of early Church history. He was ably assisting President Smith at the time of the latter's death in 1918.
President Grant retained him as second counselor and, upon the death of President Anthon H. Lund in March 1921, Brother Penrose, now past eighty-nine, was sustained as first counselor. The unusual energy of this man, strengthened by the Holy Spirit, enabled him to aid
President Grant with advice, as a result of his mature years and long experience, and also by actively participating in the Church's ever-growing work.
Anthony Woodward Ivins
The elevation of President Penrose to the rank of first counselor left a vacancy in the First Presidency. To this position Anthony
Woodward Ivins was appointed on March 10, 1921. President Ivins was born on Tom's River, New
Jersey, on September 16, 1852. His mother was a sister of the mother of President Grant, and his father
ANTHONY W. IVINS was her cousin. They emigrated to Utah in 1853. In 1861 the parents of Brother Ivins were called to settle in Washington County and it was there that President Ivins grew to manhood and acquired his education. As a young man, Anthony W.
Ivins determined that he would avoid evil company and seek the companionship of boys and men who could help him gain and retain a testimony of the gospel. To his dying day he testified that this had been one of the greatest factors in his life as it had enabled him to learn good habits of living, ideals, moral standards, and habits of industry and integrity. As a consequence, he studied the principles of the gospel and read everything that came into his possession that was noble or uplifting. The formal schooling of Brother Ivins was very meager, as was the case with most boys of pioneer days. However, he read widely and before he had

LESSON DEPARTMENT
789 reached the age of thirty, had acquired a good education. During his sojourn in St. George, he held the following positions: constable, city councilor, city attorney, and later, county attorney, mayor, deputy sheriff, county assessor and collector, State representative, delegate to the State constitutional convention, and Federal Indian agent. In spite of his lack of classroom education, this self-made lawyer met some of the best school-trained lawyers from the larger cities in court; and the judicial history of the southern part of Utah tells us he never lost a case he defended or prosecuted.
In addition to fulfilling these positions of trust and public service for his pioneer community. President Ivins engaged in the cattle and sheep business and at one time was one of the largest livestock operators in Southern Utah, Northern Arizona, and Eastern Nevada.
But in spite of these multitudinous duties, he never forgot the Church. He held positions in ward and stake Sunday Schools and the Y.M.M.I.A., served as a missionary among the Navajo Indians of Arizona, was a member of the St.
George Stake high council and, in 1888, became first counselor in the presidency of that stake. The Church Authorities had called people to settle in the Mexican State of Chihuahua and, as these Latterday Saint settlements grew, it was decided to organize a stake of Zion for their benefit. In December 1895,
Anthony W. Ivins was called to go to Mexico and assume this responsibility. Selling out all of his holdings in land and livestock, he moved to Mexico with his family. To the THREE PART
CHRISTMAS^ mmCHORUSES
FOR CM6423 The Birthday of a King—
Neidlinger 15
625 Christmas Rose — Catalonian Folk Song .15
8877 Christmas Song (Cantique de Noel) — Adam .15
731 Each Christmas Night-
Swift .15
8433 Jingle Bells— Pierpont .... .16
9825 Mistletoe and Holly Bright
—Bach .18
9794 Never Was a Child So
Lovely — Niles — .16
CM528 Silent Night— Gruber, arr.
Epperson .— .12
CM655 A Star Was His Candle-
Del Riego 15
9801 The Stars Are Shining
Bright — Barnes 18
9820 There's a Song in the Air
—Speaks .25
Young Mary — Fenner 15
Write for information on music for all types of L.D.S. choral groups. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We pay postage.
We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records.
Df»RST or ALL-tiCUABlUTT aiines ^
SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH

790
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER 1949
Joseph llm. laglor
UTAH PIONEER mortuary
Organized 1882
Since then there have been held
135 CONFERENCES
USTEN TO OUR "GOLDEN
MELODIES"
Over KDYL
SUNDAY, 9:45 A.M.
Marguerite Taylor Beck
Charles Asher Beck
125 North Main Phone 3-7824
SALT LAKE CITY
PARK FREE!
SHOP EASY!
SAVE MORE!
At your nearest Sears Store/ where you'll find that GOOD
QUALITY ALWAYS COSTS
YOU LESS! present day, residents of St. George and Juarez Stakes express deep love for President Ivins.