[The Long Wait by Lael W. Hill]

long years of waiting came to an end and I left the border  behind and arrived in Mexico City whence the trek to Paricutin started.
Here the final arrangements were made and early one morning we planned to leave Mexico City— that is, as early as the native driver, Salvadore, could rouse himself. He arrived late but, seeing that sunny smile all over his clean-shaven brown face, who could be angry? And even when I observed he was not driving to the open highway, but to the congested part of the city where he stopped uno momento (in order to pick up two more passengers not counted on), that same smile again completely disarmed me. Finally, under the power of Salvadore's cautious driving, we skimmed along smoothly and comfortably over splendid roads all the way to the flower-filled mountain town of Patscuaro.
Here we rested for the night. HE following morning saw us on the last lap of the journey to Uruapan, which was to be our headquarters before taking off for the great adventure. 'These roads, too, were excellent, except that they climbed, twisted, and turned, each good turn being repaid by many other good turns. By noon we reached the summit.
This was a breath-taking spot called Mil Cumbres, meaning "a thousand peaks," and so it seemed as they spread out to the far horizon in countless, undulating, sea-green crests.
From this vantage point we were able to see dimly a thin wisp of smoke coming 1 SAW PARICUTIN from the great spectacle we were soon to view at close quarters.
Upon arriving at our Uruapan hotel, we had a hasty mid-afternoon cup of cinnamon-flavored chocolate in a brightly colored, tile-lined patio, filled with lush semi-tropical growth. The air was pregnant with electricity, garlic, and well-fed flies! No sooner had we donned the blue denim coveralls furnished by the hotel for the horseback ride to the volcano, than the torrential rains came. When Salvadore questioned the advisability of starting, the two Texans, our added passengers, voiced my own thoughts by saying, "Hi, oh, Salvi, let's go!" I, too, agreed that it be Paricutin or drown. The special automobile which Salvadore had engaged for the drive between Uruapan and the pony rendezvous, was already waiting for us. 'This heavy car, with extra durable tires, was necessary in order to carry it over the glassy rubble of the recently blazed road.
Prior to the voicano's nativity, the approach from Uruapan to the little agricultural center in the valley of Paricutin was by mountain trail and burto back.
Even after four years of tourist travel, the mountain trail could scarcely be called a road. We lumbered over wide ruts, crevices, ravines, washes, and steep grades.
Only the weight of the car, coupled with the slow gait at which it tossed about, kept it upright. We riders within experienced all the physical discomforts of every disagreeable mode of travel. It was a conglomerate sensation of rides on camels, elephants, and storm-rocked _ ships. While I groaned and braced myself 739 wherever I could, the 'Texans were calling upon all the shades of Hades.
Their steady flow of profanity was pleasantly tempered by a delightful Southern drawl.
Angry rivulets, red mud, and the pelting rain were all about.
What with the blinding sheets of water, I was beginning to wonder why I had not included swimming in my preparations for this trip.
Each time our special driver dashed cross fissures spanned merely by two loose planks I was sure the end was at hand but, miraculously enough, he made it every time. LTIMATELY the rain ceased as suddenly as it had started and we reached San Juan de las Colchas, where we pulled up to the group of waiting Indians and their ponies. I no sooner crept out of the car than an Indian led his pony directly to me, saying in fairly understandable Spanish that this pony was the smallest and muy bien (very good) for me. I speak of his Spanish being fairly understandable because many Indians in remote sections speak their own dialects, so that to one whose ears are attuned to Castilian Spanish, theirs could sound strangely foreign. He called my attention to the nice, new, intricately tooled saddle. Yes, it looked nice. I learned later that its unyielding newness was nice enough to kill.
After helping me to mount the pony, the Indian threw the reins to his son, about ten years of age, who was to lead the pony up the trail. The two Texans had already taken off on their ponies like ducks to water.
Salvadore had started.
Other groups of tourists were falling in- 740 VOLCANO AT PARICUTIN, MEXICO to the trek. I slowly followed to the mournful droning chant of the muchacho (boy). Leaving San Juan de las Colchas, we rode over a gently rising slope covered with damp, black ashes. I quite envied the muchacho the joy of trudging barefoot.
Each step left the imprint of five little toes and a perfect arch. In a short time a stiff breeze came up and I fastened the braided cord of the sombrero under my chin. The hat served as a suitable windbreak as well as a rain shield. As I looked up I could see that Salvadore was keeping himself warm by galloping away at full speed.
With his crimson poncho (blanket) billowing about his portly body, he no longer was the whitecollared tourist interpreter, but a child of the peasant tribesmen. That  was the last I saw of him for the next hour and a half. The climb grew steadily steeper, the light dimmer. Presently I saw one of the most poignant sights of the whole trip. As far up the hillside as was visible, there stood etched against a backdrop of black ashes, unburied, twisted limbs of treetops, stripped to ivory nakedness.
This was the aftermath of Mother Earth's hot, spewing breath during her supreme struggle.
Here they stood, transfixed, the silent sentinels of a new order. The unchanging dirgelike chant of the muchacho sent a deeper eeriness through me.
From here we moved on to the edge of the lava beds, which were the exhausted masses of cinnamoncolored boulders. 'These were precariously heaped to monstrous heights by the powerful forces exerted from the adjacent molten lava.
Both boy and pony now cautiously picked their way over the treacherous rocks, while I desperately clung to the pommel in order to compensate for the many shifting positions. Off and on, we would pass through heavy warm vapors and be momentarily enveloped. We continued to climb.
Next we found ourselves in a furrow flanked by steep walls of serrated rock, rising to saber-like pinnacles. All this was once the pulsating lifeblood of Mother Earth.
Gradually we reached the crest between two furrows.
Here we were able to stand atop the surface-cooled ridge and view the countless semicongealed streams of molten lava which had careened down the valley nearly a mile wide and twelve miles | SAW PARICUTIN long. All that was once a settlement was gone.
Only the twin spires of the elaborate cathedral remained, After an awesome pause in this weird atmosphere of death-like silence, the little guide led the pony off the lava beds, along an ash-covered path which zigzagged ever higher until we reached the summit.
This hill from which we were to view Paricutin was about a half mile, as the crow flies, from the volcano. T was at paling twilight that I got my first glimpse of the rose-tinted cone, silhouetted against the darkening heavens.
Rolling white puffs of velvet-like softness rose out of the crater, gradually to spread out into fleecy white clouds.
Each new display of Mother Earth's fiery breath was heralded by resounding rumblings. His roaring came at almost regular intervals followed by a pause, and then fleecy puffs again, as if the mother were catching her breath for the spasm. To have said a word to anyone, even if I could have made myself heard, would have seemed - sacrilegious. How well these simple little guides understood, for they left us entirely alone to gaze and meditate.
Dense darkness now enveloped Paricutin. The wonder child, swathed in colors of flame and white, was magnified a thousandfold. Off in the outer arc of the sky, as though keeping a safe distance, myriad curious stars came out of the darkness to blink and witness with us the prolonged pangs of Mother Earth's childbearing.
Over and over she unashamedly roared, hissed, and belched forth fiery fun- 741 nels of blood-red fumes to be dissipated in the heavily laden, gaseous atmosphere. It was very dark and cold when my muchacho came quietly up to me with a boxed lunch.
Lookin around, I could see that the other guides were doing the same. Soon Salvadore had started a small fire around which we huddled. No one seemed to have much appetite for food. The young Texans were hopping up and down to keep warm, throwing in a few cowboy "yippees." Now and then they would lapse into a quieter mood and soberly comment, "What a sight!"
During this time the guides got the idea of keeping us amused by running races down the ash-covered hill to bring back pieces of hot sulphur. In between runs they would happily accept any portions of uneaten food, and proceed to entertain with more races, wrestling, and giggling.
Like children everywhere, they enjoyed holding the center of the stage.
After this Salvadore pointed out a new aperture in the volcano. It was at the base, far removed from the crater, from which a wide flow of lava was pouring out.
With the aid of binoculars we could see more minutely the mammoth - scarlet chunks give way, spilling and tumbling into the seething cauldron of blood-red lava-food for Paricutin's growth. GOMETIME later, thoroughly inspired as well as chilled, we reluctantly commenced the descent.
This ride was to prove even more painful, for there were no new positions left into which I might shift. (Continued on page 760) ix ty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1889 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" WOMAN: You talk about the fire of genius.
Many a blessed woman who dies unsung and unremembered has given out more of the real vital heat that keeps the life in human souls, without a spark flitting through her humble chimney to tell the world about it, than would set a dozen theories smoking, or a hundred odes simmering in the brains of so many men of genius-——O. W. Holmes.
IN MEMORIAM "The loved and lost!"" Why do we call them lost Because we miss them from our onward road? God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed, Looked on us all, and loving them the most, Straightway relieved them from life's weary load. MARICOPA STAKE: Sister Ann Kleinman reported the Alma Ward, showing that a portion of the sisters were alive to their duties, encouraged mothers to be more zealous. Sister Savage spoke encouragingly of the Papago Ward, said the native sisters were anxious to learn from their white sisters the domestic duties of wives and mothers. —F. E. Robson, Stake Sec. THE LOST LENORE: The cottage in which Edgar Poe wrote "The Raven" has been torn down to make room for more modern buildings: but before it was demolished, even for years, since the death of Poe, relic hunters have visited the place carrying away anything portable; shingles, wallpaper, fire-place and window-lattice: so that really not much remained of the original home. THOUGHTS OF CHILDHOOD HOURS Thoughts. Of my childhood hours, Revel awhile for me, And pluck from fancy's bowers, Fair leaves from life's young tree Sweet buds of youth and beauty, Growing uncheck'd and free, In loving truth and duty Oh, bring them back to me! REASONS WHY: We do not intend to sit down in the corner and cry for sugar plums when there is so much needed work to be done, we do not believe in the fiction of the clinging vine, for although woman is more delicate in her organization than man, though she may sometimes carry her love of the refined and the beautiful to an extreme, still her heart is of oak, and when called to pass through scenes of trouble and distress, often exhibits a fortitude and carries burdens at which man would shrink, and when the trumpet sounds and the watchman on the tower cries aloud that the day is breaking, woman will be there with man and receive the reward of victory.— Phebe C. Young.  MBs. J. L. BLAIR BUCK, presi- (WHEN Rowland Macy starteg dent of the Genera] Federat O C ng program. In quently to Berlin, Mrs. Buck, Mj d Strauss, President of _the the much-to-the. Of the State Po]j MBs. EDITH RUSSELL OLIOlogy, A Little PHANT > 4 gifted young Lat. Etry, which ter-day Saint writer, died August 18, lliams, Poet 1949. Born In England, and a conQ Compilation of vert to the Church, she became asOetry of the twentieth and later to" a "ighteen a the ae 4
Brigham Young Univers; i. Was awarded man —. We Emil Celved outstandin Itwe » Marvianne ler stories articles, and St. Vincent Millay, and Sara Teasdale. The vol - Russelis Did ume E Go to hurch appeared in Indeed a "treasury" and is wel] worth 7
Relief Societ Magazine In Careful st dy 1948
 CQ >r EDITORIAL cm—~© 
VOL.  NO. 11
Shanksgiving Without a Ceast FE think of Thanksgiving as actually beginning on an autumn day in 1621, after the Pilgrims had gathered their first harvest. We associate the word with reaping, the gathering of crops, and feasting on the good things which the earth yields abundantly. And yet the very first '