[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON- | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in
Salt Lake City, Saturday Oct. 3, 1896, at 2
p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand were the Vice Presidents
Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah M. Kimball, Secretaries E. B.
Wells and R. B. Pratt, several Stake Presi-
dents from a distance occupied the upper
stand, and there was a good sized congre-
gation in the body of the house.
	Conference opened with singing ‘ Re-
deemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith, continued by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Roll called, seventeen
Stakes represented. Minutes of previous
Conference read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young welcomed
the congregation in a very gracious man-
ner and thanked the brethren who were
present for their presence, felt glad to see
so many from a distance but wished there
was not a vacant seat in the house, urged
the sisters to do all in their power to get
the members to attend their local meetings,
felt we needed the Spirit of the Lord to be
constantly with us, not only do we need it
every hour but all the time. Related
some instances of sublime faith in children;
referred to a dream of Patriarch John
Young about a looking glass in which
one’s neighbor’s faults were magnified, ad-
vised all to follow the teachings of Joseph
the Prophet and pray night and day to the
Lord for guidance.
	President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake Relief Society spoke against mumur-
ing, referred to the recent high wind, said
it occured immediately after a woman’s
meeting in which the sisters had complain-
ed so much of hard times; reported good
work done in the Society and a good feeling
generally, and beautifully of Temple work.
President Hakes of Maricopa Stake, rep-
resented the Relief Society work in that
locality for his wife who could not come
because of financial difficulties, and had
asked him to report. Spoke very interest-
ingly of the labors of the sisters in that
part of the vineyard. 
	Lorinda E. Thompson of the Board of
Millard Relief Society gave an excellent
account of the sisters in that Stake and of
the President, Elizabeth Yates, and alluded
to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that
had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hun-
dred cases, however, only eight had died,

[Column 2]
all the others had recovered, which seemed
remarkable.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Relief Soci-
ety Bingham Stake gave a very favorable
report, referred to the willingness of the
brethren to assist the sisters in their labors
and to go with them when visiting the
Stakes spoke highly of the country, they
had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain;
of the union which prevailed among them,
all being in harmony; sisters would come
eight or ten miles to attend Conferences,
and bring babies with them; made some
remarks on the Word of Wisdom and the
blessings attending those who kept it. 
	Temperance Hinckley President of Re-
lief Society of Bannock Stake, spoke of the
disadvantages they labored under in having
such long distances to travel by team to
visit the Stake she and her Counselors
had visited all around recently, felt to do
all in her power and reported a good and
united feeling among the sisters in the
Stake knew they were charitable and
humble and were desirous of doing their
duty they were always ready to assist the
Bishops in relieving the poor and in every
good word and work for Zion.
	President Mary A. P. Hyde, Relief Soci-
ety Sanpete Stake, spoke of having just re-
turned from a Quarterly Conference in that
county and of the good feeling that exist
ed among the Saints, spoke very feelingly
of the loss by death of her two Counselors
during the present year, Sisters Minerva
W. Snow and Sarah A. Peterson, and of
the strong attachment that had existed
between them, but realized they were bet-
ter off and that they would not wish to re-
turn here. Two other Counselors had
since been appointed and she felt that they
would be faithful in the position to which
they had been called and set apart. They
were Sisters Alvira L. Cox and Abbie
Shoemaker. Sister Hyde felt blest in ber
ing able to attend the Conference and
hearing the good reports from the sisters.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the Re-
lief Society of St. George Stake, spoke of
the great losses sustained in that locality
by floods, but did not feel discouraged but
hopeful, thought their faith and union had
ncreased of late. The sisters generally had.
to pay for teams to go around the Stake,
the distances they had to travel in visiting
all around were considerable; her advice
had been to put their financial women in
the front so they could make means to
sustain the poor and for such other purposes
as means was needed for, thought there
was a prospect now of a railroad coming
and then they would have a market for
their produce; last year the people there
had large crops of grain and disposed of it
too readily, this year the crops would be
light, scarcity would make them more
careful in the future; thought as a people,
we were greatly blest in comparison with
the nations of the earth, for this she prais-
ed the God of Jacob who had blessed us
and kept us “and will bless us and keep
us if we will serve Him.” Sister Wood-
bury spoke earnestly of the silk industry;
the sisters there had pushed the work for-
ward this year, there had been two hundred
pounds of cocoons raised there this season,
and it would be a great help to them; she
had been working in the interst of the silk
industry for eighteen years trying to ac-
complish something and realized that if
it would not be of any benefit to her, it
would in the future to the children, and


[Column 1]
grandchildren of those who were laboring
in its establishment.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, spoke of the large num-
ber of branches in that Stake of Zion, thirty
three and all doing well; the poor were
well looked after, none suffering, referred to
some instances when on account of death and
misfortune whole families were dependent;
realized the Relief Society had been a great
school in which many important lessons were
learned; referred to the bountiful harvest
and thought the sisters should be on the
alert and store up more grain during this
year. Spoke most encouragingly concern-
ing the Free Kindergarten in Provo, said,
"We have started it and we feel we shall
make a success of it eventually, feel assur-
ed of it, of having a free kindergarten in
each ward; children in these schools are
taught such nice manners, and to be so
kind and gentle, let me advise all mothers
arid grandmothers to encourage these
schools.”
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
rejoiced to see the sisters from the North,
the South, the East and West come to the
Conference and enjoy the privileges of the
teaching and the spirit of the Gospel. In
that Stake they experienced some difficulty
in getting teams especially to go long dis-
tances; spoke about wheat and the need
there was and would be of grain in times
to come, as yet had no granary but hoped
to do better in the future; spoke of the
good work many of the aged sisters had
done, and the hardships they had borne.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks and opened out upon the subject
of a suitable house for the sisters to meet
in to be owned by the Relief Society. Wo-
men had done so much to help build other
houses for public purposes and to build
Temples, and when the President of the
Stake, C. O. Card, lacked the means to go
on with the Logan Temple and the men
were to be discharged because there was no
money to pay them, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards raised five hundred dollars through the
Relief Society of Weber County to keep the
men working, and it stands as a memento
to the sisters of that Society forever.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball wished she
could do justice to the subject, in what she
wanted to say; in her feelings she felt
humiliated in regard to the failure of the
meeting in the morning. It was under-
stood that we were to have the Hall and
permission had been given, but in conse-
quence of a previous appointment which
had been published the meeting could not
be held. “We need a house of our own,
owned and controlled by the Society, a
house under the shadow of the Temple, a
counterpart of it. We have contributed to
all public places that have been built and
at all times, but we want a house of our
own suitable to the various purposes of
this great organization; we want the land
to build on and it should be near; and a
house with conveniences for you my sisters
Who come from a distance, and where we
are prepared to entertain strangers when
they come; a bureau of information should
be established in it, and a place where let-
ters can be written, and other things of
this kind done that are an adjunct to the
Society. I have only a few minutes and
don’t expect to be here again, the question
is being discussed whether you representa-
tive Women who are here want this build-
ing, and we want to put it to vote.” Sister

[Column 2]
Kimball then told what Joseph Smith had
said to the sisters of the Society in Nauvoo,
and his giving them a lot belonging to the
Church, and that a house was given with it
which could be repaired and made useful;
she then said “I want to ask you sisters if
you want such a building as I have describ-
ed?” The motion was put to the house and
the vote taken and it was unanimous; the
speaker added “If you are alive to this
proposition then see how much can be
done.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
sisters of Sanpete Stake building their large
hall over the Co-op store in Ephraim, al-
most entirely without money; they contri-
buted all their Sunday eggs, some had
sheep and gave wool etc. and in various
ways raised $600, it was very wonderful;
reminded the sisters to consider the subject.
After singing the doxology the Conference
adjourned until 7.30 p. m. Benediction by
Elder E. John Nuttall.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
