Women and the Home Today Amy Brown Lyman General President of Relief Society The following talk was delivered by President Lyman over Radio Station KSL on Sunday evening March 14, 1943 during the Sunday Evening Church Broadcast, 9:15- 9:45 p. M. Sister Lyman was invited to deliver this talk by courtesy of the Church Radio Committee in recognition of the 101st birthday of Relief Society, March 17, 1943. NE hundred and one years 8) ago, March 17, 1943, the women's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. Today its members may be found in every state of the United States, in six continents, and in the islands of the sea in many nations, some of which are now opposed to one another in war. Nevertheless, these women are bound together by their common acceptance of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and their membership in the Relief Society. 'Truly did Madame Chiang Kai-shek say in her recent historic speech to the Congress of the United States that "devotion to common principles eliminates differences in race, and identity of ideals is the strongest possible solvent of racial dissimilarities." As the president of this international organization with its 115,000 members, I regard it as a great privilege as well as an outstanding honor to have this opportunity of speaking over the radio to our Relief Society workers, officers and members, and also to the multitude of others who listen to the messages of this regular Sunday evening broadcast of our Church. To our Relief Society members | extend greetings, and to them express appreciation for the great and unselfish contributions they are Page 236 making for the good of humanity in these troubled and anxious times, contributions not only to their own organization, but to their Church, to their communities, and to the various nations in which they are citizens. They are concerned both as individuals and as organized groups in the health and welfare of their communities, both in programs initiated by the Society itself, and by co-operating with other agencies, particularly in the fields of relief, food conservation (including canning and drying of fruits and vegetables), salvage, recreation for service men, sewing, and nursing services giving countless hours in volunteer work. And all this service they are - rendering in addition to performing their home duties; for Relief Society women are first of all homemakers and mothers. 'The noble spirits of these good women, their courage, and their work have impressed favorably, I am sure, all who know of the work they have done. What they have accomplished is truly amazing, and I am sure our Heavenly Father not only sanctions and approves their efforts, but for these unselfish efforts he will reward them richly. HE responsibilities and duties of women, always important and always great, seem greater today than they have ever been before. With the world involved in war and WOMEN AND THE HOME TODAY our customary manner of living disturbed and interfered with, new calls are constantly being made upon them. Women are expected to bear and bring up children, to care for the homes, to serve and to sacrifice, to help to keep up the morale of their families, of their communities, and of their country, and to help safeguard the emotional stability of the nation. 'They thoroughly sense the unusual needs and demands which have come in connection with this great struggle which has as its slated objective the obtaining of freedom for all mankind, and the establishment of peaceof a peace which can function and thus be more than a mere temporary truce. 'They therefore stand ready and willing to work and serve wherever duty calls. They strive under even the most trying conditions to help to keep up the general morale, to be calm, patient, and serene; and, as a group, to be a source of quiet fortitude and encouragement. They try to rise above their own personal anxieties and _ trials, and they do their utmost to sustain the courage of othersof husbands, brothers, sons, and even youths and children. Women are also willing to make sacrifices, -all those sacrifices which a nation may ask of its citizens in a time of common peril. In times of war the great sacrifice for women is sending forth their sons to the battle front. Those who create, always suffer greatly when the fruits of their creation are endangered or are in peril. The artist or the sculptor would be filled with anguish if, after months or years of continued painstaking effort, his masterpiece, in the form of a painting, a statue, or a marble carving, 237 should be mutilated or destroyed. The artist knows as no one else can know what each work of art has cost. He knows what long years of struggle and study it takes to actually produce, to create. Then what of the mother who produces life, who bears and brings up a son and then is called upon to have him, for his country, make the supreme sacrifice? She only, who has produced human life, knows the cost and the value of human life, and therefore she has unparalleled and profound reverence and regard for it. And what, too, of those other mothers, young wives who are left to rear their children singlehanded and alone? Other sacrifices, however great, whatever they are, such as the loss of property or other material things, or the loss of personal comforts, or the giving up of a life of comparative ease for one of hard laborall these are as nothing in comparison. And yet the love of country, the love of freedom and liberty, and the dedication to what they regard as duty, are causes for which women, the human childbearers, are. Willing to pay, even at the greatest of all costs. If things could be as women would have them, however, war as a means of arranging human differences would be abolished. They would settle such difficulties by arbitration and compensation. FYROM among the multiplicity of tasks which come to women today, we should choose wisely. It is extremely difficult and of some concern to know how to proceed, how to know which work is the most important, the most constructive, 238 which will really be most helpful, which will bring the most needed results. It is also difficult to know how much we can safely undertake and try to complete satisfactorily without detriment to our health, to our home life, and to the health and welfare of our children. We all desire to do our very best with the time at our disposal. We want to make the most of it. Each day comes but once, and each and every hour of every day we would like to use to the best advantage. We stand ready to do this with all the cnergies and powers at our command. The question, however, often arises, what shall we undertake to do and what may we profitably let remain undone? I am persuaded that we may let go many things which are of small consequence, many passing pleasures which have no permanent or eternal value. As new duties and responsibilities present themselves, these should be considered in the light of their relative importance one to another, and in the light of their relative importance when compared with the values of that regular routine work which must be done, and which many are now normally pursuing. Some women, such as mothers with little children, may be doing work both in the home and in the community, more prosaic but more important, helpful, and farreaching, in the long run, and more necessary even to the progress of the war and the peace to follow, than. Any kind of new work. Many are able, therefore, to add but little to their present burdens. 'Then on the other hand, there are many other women who are free to give practically full time to war efforts. All will agree that the first and most important duty of women is to keep the homes intact and the families together. 'The home, the basic institution of society, must be preserved. Not only should homes be kept intact for the sake of those left in the home, but also for the sake of the boys and men who are at the front. We are reminded constantly by military leaders that, from the military standpoint, homes should be properly maintained; that they are and will remain the greatest inspiration to the men in the service. Home is their chief topic of conversation. Then, as the givers and the guardians of life, it is the task of women in the midst of any and all exigencies and emergencies to bring up the generation of tomorrow. This is always a great responsibility for women, and especially so when they have to carry this burden alone. To the woman with young children, children of the ages requiring continual care and supervision, surely her first duty is toward them. This is her most important work, and the greatest contribution any mother can make to the world, either in time of peace or in time of war. It is especially important today that children be brought up in well-regulated homes, homes that run smoothly, homes where good standards, are maintained. System and regularity are the best preventives of emotional difficulties which often result, later on, in behavior problems, and juvenile delinquency. In all homes, and in all the adjustments which every home and family will have to make, children should receive full consideration. WOMEN AND THE HOME TODAY From the viewpoint of the Latterday Saints, the family is a sacred and holy institution and family life is the most important of all human relationships. This conclusion is based upon their belief in the pre-existence of man, in a life beyond the grave, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and children. Latter-day Saints - believe that "marriage is ordained of God... That the earth might answer the end of its creation; And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made" (Doc. And Cov. 49:15-17); we believe and teach that marriage is a holy sacrament as well as a legal union, and that when marriage is consummated by proper authority in the House of the Lord it is "for time and for all eternity." In the standards and plans for the Latter-day Saint home and for home life, children should be given the first consideration. Their health is to be guarded and careful provision is to be made for their schooling, their leisure, and their spiritual welfare. Rarely can a family be found in the Church in which the parents are not willing to make real sacrifices to educate their children, provide suitable recreation for them, and build up in them faith and such a love for the Gospel of the Master that these children, without financial remuneration, serve gladly as missionaries to spread the "glad tidings." Belief in the immortality of the spirit affects all reactions in the Latter-day Saint home. When parents 239 look into the faces of their little children, believing that their spirits are immortal, that they will go on and progress eternally, there comes into the souls of parents a feeling of reverence for the life and personality of these little ones whom God has entrusted to their care; and parents are willing to forego personal pleasure, even endure severe trials, rather than to deprive these children of normal home life, or of whatever else may be necessary for their proper growth and development. Church members were greatly impressed by the message of the First Presidency of the Church given last October, in which they called attention to the duties and responsibilities of parents regarding their children. It has caused us all to pause and to review again our standards and ideals, our manner of living, and our obligations as parents and Church auxiliary workers. I will close these remarks with some quotations from this great message: By bringing these choice spirits to earth, each father and each mother assumes towards the tabernacled spirit and towards the Lord Himself... An obligation of the most sacred kind, because the fate of that spirit in the eternities to come, the blessings or punishments which shall await it in the hereafter, depend, in great part, upon the care, the teachings, the training which the parents shall give to that spirit. No parent can escape that obligation and that responsiblility, and for the proper meeting thereof, the Lord will hold us to a strict accountability. No loftier duty than this can be assumed by mortals. Motherhood thus becomes a holy calling, a sacred dedication for carrying out the Lord's plans, a consecration of devotion to the uprearing and fostering, the nurturing in body, mind, and spirit, of (Concluded on page 297)