The Gardener's Best and Oldest Friend Hazel D. Moyle Garden Editor, The Deseret News WHEN Adam, the world's first gardener, was driven out of that first perfect garden, he was told that henceforth the earth should bring forth thorns and thistles, and that his part forever after should be to till the soil. Few modern gardeners connect those ancient and beautiful words with their own 1943 Victory Gardens. Surely, exclaims the amateur, we have now progressed, with all our modern tools and gadgets, our balanced fertilizers and high-class varieties, beyond such primitive methods of making plants grow! Yet that ancient command to till the soil is as important today as it was in the days of Adam, and especially is it important in raising a Victory Garden of vegetables. Call it tilling, or cultivating, or stirring, or just plain hoeing... Here is the open sesame and the royal road to achieving a successful and abundant garden. How strange that it usually requires experience plus a few failures to teach the amateur garden-maker that the hoe (or its twin-tool, the three-pronged cultivator), is truly the gardener's best friend. "The more we hoe, the more we grow," runs an old adage quoted for years and years by both farmers and gardeners, yet the beginner is inclined to pin his faith on some highpower nostrum or pill, some magical vitamin wand, claimed to make the garden rows prosper and thrive with little or no effort on the gardener's part. Cultivation of the soil is vitally important if we wish to realize all those pleasant expectations of bumper crops, of luscious tomatoes that rival those pictured on the first page of the catalogues, of tender, sweet peas and carrots, beets, and other succulent eatables. We must learn to use this old and trusty weapon with a will and with persistence if we would have a garden of which we can be proud. We must cultivate early and late, often, and then repeat the process, in fact, we cannot overdo this ageold practice of stirring and tilling the soil about our plants if we wish them to prosper and flourish. Few indeed are the plants that do not welcome and appreciate good cultivation. The queen of all flowers, the rose, must have it in order to produce her best. The trees show their appreciation of an occasional good cultivation by bearing better foliage or fruit. Even the tiniest seedling will hold up its head, and take heart, and set to work to grow up, if it is encouraged by having the surrounding soil stirred gently to let in air and to stimulate its growth. MAKE plans to cultivate your vegetables as soon as the seeds pop up and can be seen in a row. Use a small hoe, often called a Warren Page 255 256 Heart-shaped hoe, or the efficient three-pronged cultivator, or if your vegetable garden is large enough to justify the expense, purchase the ingenious wheelhoe, a small contraption mounted on a wheel and pushed along like a plow. You can even use the common regular garden hoe. The important thing is to stir and till the soil, just as gardeners have done since the beginning of time. This first early cultivation of the soil is of greatest importance, not only for the stimulation it gives the plants, but also the millions, of weeds it will destroy. The earth is full of weed seeds, all waiting and ready to begin to grow, and these interlopers often sprout even before the vegetable seeds, for they are moist and ready to burst. We must catch them as soon as possible without disturbing the legitimate seeds. So this first stirring of the soil should be made just as soon as the row of seeds can be discerned, even though there are no weeds. Kill the pirate weeds even before they germinate by keeping the surface loose and well worked, and you will be saving yourself hours and hours of future hard weeding. Hoeing makes the ground sweet and lets in air, so that roots are stimulated and crops are thus much sooner brought to maturity and perfection. And strange as it may seem, by keeping the surface open, loose, and porous, we prevent the parching effects of drought. We can do much to allay the effects of lack of moisture by constant cultivation. A welltilled garden will show little effects of lack of moisture, while one which does not have cultivation will suffer, 1943 badly, even though it has been fertilized more heavily. HE ground which is constantly watered soon becomes packed and hard, unless the surface receives tilling or cultivating. And when it reaches this forbidding state then neither. Moisture nor air can reach down to the feeding roots. "Frequent cultivation is of more importance than either moisture or fertilization," says one of the finest growers of prize roses in our state, and she proves her point by the fresh, abundant, and sparkling flower beds, and the wonderful flowers, fruits, and vegetables her garden produces. This talented gardener cultivates after every watering and rainfall. Her vegetable rows are cultivated often and frequently, until the leaves are so large that they shade and protect the surface from the sun's rays, and thus the earth is kept from packing and becoming hard. Tomatoes especially need plenty of stirring of the soil, in fact one can scarcely overdo tilling all vegetable crops. And by beginning early, and keeping the surface well-worked, the weeds can be almost completely conquered before they have a chance to grow. Only the few that lodge directly in the vegetable rows themselves, need be actually pulled up. Save yourself hours and hours of hard grueling weeding by keeping the surface in good tilth. Yes, we must still observe that ancient command, given to Father Adam the first gardener, if we would have a garden of which we can be proud, and strange to say, when once we learn that this personal effort is required of us, we too respond to