Love One Another 4 TODAY when the hearts of so many of the inhabitants of the earth are filled with hatred for their fellow men, and Satan is going to and fro seeking whom he may destroy, it is a time when we, as Latterday Saints, should study and consider the sacrifice of the Savior, and through reading of Him and praying to the Father in His name, should fill our souls with love of Christ and thus continue and increase in our love for one another. We are filled with wonder as we contemplate the words of the Savior during His last hours. It is a merciful part of the great eternal plan that the events of the future lie hidden from man, however in the case of the Savior, we know that while on this earth He was aware of the eternal plan and of His major role in it: first as it was formed in the pre-existence; then as to the part He was to fulfill in mortality as the Savior of the world; and last as to His reunion with the Father after passing from this earth and the glory and work that would be His with the Father. Words, and actions at the Last Supper and thereafter were all for the fulfilling of His mission, of glorifying the Father, and of strengthening and instructing His faithful disciples that the Gospel might be established after His death. His soul was filled with love for these faithful few. Page 260 Yet His thoughts,. In the introduction of John to the events of the Last Supper we read: Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. What feelings Christ must have experienced at the Last Supper as He looked around the table! He was about to leave these most beloved apostles whom the Father had given Him out of the world.... He said unto them, "With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer." He washed the feet of the disciples, and after indicating that Judas would be the one to betray Him, He said to him, "That thou doest, do quickly. He (Judas) then... Went immediately out: and it was night." After Judas left, Jesus said: Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him... A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. In His final beautiful discourses and in the prayer of Christ unto His Father, again and again are two statements repeated: "That ye love one another," and "If ye love me, keep my commandments." EDITORIAL As Jesus, in His divinity, suffered in the Garden of Gethsemane for the sins of the world beyond the power of human endurance: "being in agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground," so he loved beyond human power. Although facing "an excruciating death upon the cross" and knowing that the time was fast approaching, still His final discourses to His faithful followers were solely concerned with their welfare following His death. He poured out His soul to the Father in their behalf and He warned and exhorted them as to their future course when He would be with them no mote. "He loved them unto the end." He knew that He would be betrayed; He knew Peter would thrice deny Him; He knew His disciples would sleep through His agony; He knew He would be deserted by some of 261 them at the cross; He knew they would not accept the fact of His resurrection until it was proved to them; He knew all their failings and weaknessesbut "He loved them unto the end." He loves all His disciples unto the end, in whatever dispensation they have lived. He loves us in this day who have embraced the fullness of the Gospel, in spite of our failings and weaknesses; but we must heed his "new commandment," as did the disciples of old, the commandment which has come down to us of this day, "This is my commandment, that ye love one another, as I have loved you." ' There is no place in the heart of a true Latter-day Saint for hatred. It is our duty, our responsibility, and our salvation, "to love one another as I have loved you." M. C. S.