making over a used one, unless the older material is combined with new material in some way. Worn spots are difficult to manage, and it isn't wise to spend time on something that won't look smart when it is finished; so the majority of remodeling problems has to do with making smaller garments out of larger ones so as to avoid using worn edges, the thin places on the elbows of sleeves, the seats of trousers, etc. The possibilities of this process are many and varied: children's coats. From adults' coats; boys' trousers from men's; snowsuits and sport coats from overcoats; young girls' and misses' suits from older brother's and fathers' suits; small girls' slips, bloomers, aprons, and pinafores from the backs, upper sleeves, and tails of men's shirts; and little boys' shirts from fathers'. Men's shirts are made of much better material than boys' ready-made shirts or the yardage that can be purchased for them, and often the buttonholes and buttons on a shirt can be utilized as they are. At no time in the life of a girl is it as important for her to be well-dressed as during adolescence. Good looking accessories for the adolescent girl such as belts, collars, suit fronts, vests, and jerkins may be made from material already on hand, and will do much to satisfy her desire for frequent changes in her apparel. Most small children have no aversion to remodeled clothing. Often a mother's ability to use outmoded or UNEMPLOYED CLOTHING CALLED INTO SERVICE partially worn garments means the difference between her child looking neat and well-clothed, or poor and shabby. It is when a seam has been taken in, the sleeves or skirt shortened, or some other alteration made to make a too large garment fit a smaller child without regard for line or correct proportions, that a garment looks made-over and dowdy. If one plans to make over old garments, in order to obtain the best results, the garments should first be entirely picked apart, and thoroughly cleaned by washing or dry cleaning. Then one should cut and sew as if new material were being used and the results will then be satisfactory. Often one finds that more problems present themselves when cutting small articles from pieces of fabric than when cutting them from a continuous length, especially when a commercial pattern with an illustrated layout is used. A few devices will help to overcome such difficulties. Frequently a yoke across the back. Or front of the waist, a patch pocket to cover a worn spot or the place where a slit pocket has been, cuffs where no cuffs are designed in the pattern, a seam not called for at the waist which can be hidden by a belt, or a pleat to hide a piecing in a skirt will help. MANY mothers will agree that these suggestions sound fine but will confess that they don't know how to sew. To many women today needlework or sewing of any kind is a lost art, something that passed into oblivion with he coming of the industrial age and mass production; but an extension clothing specialist in Indiana wrote in an article in the 273 Journal of Home Economics, "Indiana homemakers, who had almost forgotten the pleasure and satisfaction of sewing for the family, have brought out their sewing machines, and dusted and oiled them ready for work. 'Those who have never sewed before are enthusiastic over their first attempts. "A swing back to home sewing is, to be sure, a wartime necessity, but it is a perennial satisfaction to those who have really mastered the art." If a person is interested in any program, she can learn, with conscientious effort, to take part in the program, and reversely, if a person wishes to build up interest in any problem she must enter into the solving of the problem. One is never too old to gain new knowledge nor acquire new skills. MANY methods may be worked out to enable one to learn to sew, if this important ability hasn't been developed. Of course the easiest method is to enroll in high school, college, or special sewing school classes, or in a civic organization that has set up a sewing class. If it is not possible to do this, a group of women might obtain the services, over a given period of time, of a high school or college teacher. If enough mothers became interested, the Relief Society would be happy to provide instruction as part of its work-and-business day program. An individual plan might. Be worked out to help a neighbor or friend with problems in her home for the help she might give in problems of sewing. Sewing clubs could be organized to meet in one another's homes, or in some public room. Almost - 274 anyone who is adept at sewing will be willing to help others if the time and place can be arranged. "Where there's a will there's a way," and people who really wish assistance, can find some way to obtain help from those who can give it. Don't agree with the defeatist who says that women won't do anything about conservation, that there is too much money on hand, and that too many clothes are available. Rather stop and considerHave I given myself a real chance to know what needs to be done, why it needs to be done, and how it can be done? "Tt has been said many times by those who take the long view and who are seeing beyond the present cmergency, that in these United States of America we face today a new way of life. It is a way of life in which we shall have to be useful both to ourselves and to our community, if we are to gain real satisfaction." Who knows but that our efforts to do our part in conservation for the war effort will equip us to live more satisfactorily and efficiently no matter what conditions prevail when peace is again established? Let us see to it that whatever our part may be in the fight for democracy, we do it well. Bibliography Journal of Home Economics. Better Homes and Gardens. American Home. Deseret News.