Home Entertainment Nellie O. Parker Member of Relief Society General Board ON FE day a kindergarten teacher took her children for a walk. When the children's enthusiasm began to wane they complained of being tired, too tired to walk any more. She was confronted with the problem of getting them back to their schoolroom, so she purchased a box of animal crackers from a nearby grocery store and gave each child an animal -to ride on. Instantly there was a rejuvenation of spirits and the children went galloping back i in high glee. The teacher wisely harnessed their play instinct and their love for makebelieve. She changed their attitude, making it fun to ride home on their imaginary steeds. The play way of teaching or leading children is an effective, easy way to get results. When the cultivation of the play spirit is neglected or ignored in home or family life, some of the most vital forces are lost that would cement the family circle and bring about a joyous, enriched living. Everyone needs recreation. President Brigham Young said, ''Recreation and diversion are as necessary to our well-being as the more serious pursuits of life." Youth seeks self-expression for his store of energy, and from his activities his character is built. Following natural urges in his play, the child gains ability to do thingsto express himself, to master himself, and to adjust socially. If his play is wisely directed he learns to co-operate, to be unselfish, to be honest and fair, to lose graciously as well as win. He gets training in being alert, observant, and resourceful. He gets opportunity to use his initiative, to try his wings. And best of all, he has fun while doing it. ADULTS need relaxation and change so that a recharging of powers, a regeneration of spirit may take place. A playful attitude of mind must be acquired to gain this relaxation. "As long as a man can retain his play incentive he will retain his sense of humor, and happiness will prevail more easily im his heart." With war restrictions keeping people home, a new interest is being awakened in home entertainment. We are finding that much can be gained by playing together at home. Parents can learn a great deal about their children by playing with them. They should set a good pattern of unselfish leadership and allow children opportunity for leadership. Many books and magazines are giving helpful suggestions for planning fun for the family, fun without money, giving lists of games and other activities which can be adapted to any home and its different age groups. The Latter-day Saints have always emphasized the importance of the home and the potency of its influence in building capable, upright men and women. The leaders, from the Prophet Joseph Smith on, have Page 277 278 stressed the value gained from the family working and playing together. A "home night" has long been recommended and has become an institution in many families. A little book Recreation in the Home recently published by the auxiliary organizations of the Church (which sells for the very nominal sum of 25 cents, will be found very helpful in assisting parents to plan for the various occasions that arise: birthdays, weddings, holidays, neighborly get-to-gethers, honor days (when some member of the family has achieved success or recognition, ) etc. PARENTS should take advantage of every opportunity to celebrate these occasions. It will add a zest and a buoyancy to living that all members will enjoy and always remember. It need not add a strain on the family budget, and will repay bounteously for the trouble taken. A festive atmosphere can be added to the regular dinner by putting candles and some unique decoration on the table, by preparing the usual food in fancy ways, and by serving it in the family's prettiest dishes. The party attitude is the important thing. Let the imagination come to the fore and plan original things, allowing the children to participate in the planning and preparation. Dress up and glorify common things, tint or whiten weeds, put faces on cookies, make turtles out of large raisins using cloves for the head and feet, make funny men out of apples, potatoes, prunes, etc. (see pages 60-63, Home Recreation). Plan surprises often. Make mealtime a happy time, especially when all the family are together and have time to relax. Play games at the table. One could pretend that he is a distinguished guest or someone well-known to all. He might be President Roosevelt, Eddie Rickenbacker, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, Aunt Grace, or Cousin Stan, who is an ensign in the navy. By his actions and conversation the family guesses who each one is representing. All enter into the play of entertaining the guest. Another game in which smaller children can participate is guessing the object in the room of which the leader is thinking. Questions are asked and the one who guesses correctly first, then becomes the leader. Bible characters may be used for a guessing game. One persons says, "I am thinking of a man in the Bible whose name begins with 'J' ". The others ask questions until they find out who he is. New games may be invented and old ones adapted. 'The family who will play like this while eating will have little trouble getting Michael to eat his vegetables or Jane to drink her milk. A timid child will unconsciously enter into the game. THERE are numerous games suitable for different occasions, and for the places in which they are to be played whether it be the living room, amusement room, or out of doors. For adults and older children who read and write, there are pencil and paper games which may be played at the table after the meal is finished, or in the living room, such as Consequences: One player writes on a piece of paper a man's name and then folds the paper so as to hide what has been written; the next HOME ENTERTAINMENT writes a woman's name; the next what he did; another, what she did; then what he said; and then what she said; and finally the consequences; each phrase is written by a different player. A reading of. The entire list affords much amusement. Another game is titled Dictionary: A long word is written at the top of paper, such as "'metropolitan," then each player tries to compile the longest list of words using only the letters contained in the word, "metropolitan." Words containing many of the vowels are the most successful ones to use for this game. Bible and other quizzes will be interesting as well as _ instructive. (Page 73, Home Recreation) Some games not too strenuous to be played in th living room and which people of all ages can enjoy are: Stake Coach, Magic Music, How Do You Like Your Neighbor, Fruit Basket, etc. Young children love to play such games with their elders. For children's parties the old standbys: Blind Man's Buff, Drop the Handkerchief, Musical Chairs,. Poison, etc., are always enjoyed. Games suitable for the out of doors (or rumpus room) include: Last Couple Out, and Hide and Seek. Croquet is an excellent lawn game for the family. It combines skill with courtesy and fair play. A horseshoe-pitching court may utilize the space between cement strips of driveway if no other space is available. A backyard fireplace can be the center for family or children groups to gather for weiner roasts, games, and story-telling. 279 From the time the baby starts to coo, mother can begin little singing and action games such as "This Little Pig Goes To Market," played with his toes, and finger games, such as "Here's A Ball For Baby," and "Thumbkin Says [ll Dance." She can tell the toddler the story of "The Little Red Hen and The Kernel of Wheat" while she is making bread; the story of "The Gingerbread Boy" when making cookies, or "Little Tom Thumb" while she is stirring up a cake or pudding. You remember Tom was sitting on the edge of the bowl while his mother was making a pudding. He fell in when his mother wasn't looking and she stirred him into the batter and put the pudding on to boil, and that was the beginning of his adventures. Children love these and similar stories and will ask for them again and again. THERE are many stories which will help parents to teach lessons in unselfishness, forgiveness, fortitude, etc. Care should be taken, though, not to spoil a story by moralizing, as children will grasp the message if it is well told. Reading, as well as storytelling is delightful entertainment for all members of the family. Each of the older ones can take a turn in being the reader. Bible stories should be included among the "musts." It is well to cater to the family's interests in the type of entertainment planned, but a balanced diversified program should be offered. Dramatizing stories and events, playing charades and pantomimes and doing some dancing to the radio 280 or phonograph, if home musicians are not available, will all be enjoyed for a change. If the family is musical, much real satisfaction will be gained in singing or playing together. All families should sing even though they are not naturally endowed with fine voices. A singing family is a happy one. There is no better way to keep the home fires burning. Singing refuels the morale of the family or a nation. Handicraft of various types suited to individual inclinations should be encouraged, such as woodwork, metal work, scissor pictures, whittling, modeling, painting, weaving, needle work, etc. Each child should be lead to find the activity in which he receives greatest satisfaction. Everyone should be able to do something well, to create with his hands. There can be projects in woodwork, gardening, quilting, and rugmaking, etc., which, if carried on in the spirit of play, will not only make additions to the resources of the home, and increase the skill of family fingers, but also deepen and enrich a happy purposeful living. At least once each week the family should have a date to have fun together. Letter from a Service Man The following excerpts taken from a letter written to his parents by a member of the Church serving in the Navy is typical of the letters coming from our Latter-day Saint. Boys serving throughout the world in the armed forces of our nation: I am a Latter-day Saint. 1 have made that statement many times before in many different ways. Sometimes I have said it defiantly, expecting in return some smart crack or piece of vulgar wit; sometimes proudly, as when reading of the courage and faith of the great men of the Church; and sometimes casually, as when answering questions for statistical purposes. But never have I made that statement with the same feeling as I do today. Today I have a testimony of the powci of the Lord, a testimony of the authority of the Church and its restoration... Today, when I say I am a Latter-day Saint, it is with the feeling of pride, a feeling of defiance, and a feeling of humbleness. A feeling of thankfulness that the Lord has favored me by allowing me to be born to parents who are members of the Church. Dad, this isn't the conventional way to start a letter, but I was fired with the necessity of getting the above discourse off my chest, and you are the victim. It is rather poorly told, a masterpiece of understatement, for on the surface it is rather simple; but I am afraid there are no words to describe what I have in mind, and this is the best I can do. Wendell Call