[Vol11 | December 1924 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman]

Relief Society conference, both of which were well attended and
President Anthony W. Ivins, Mrs. Elizabeth Snow Ivins, and Mrs. Nachie from Japan, a convert to the Church and a devoted friend of Japanese missionaries, including Mr. Grant Ivins, son of President and Mrs. Ivins.
deeply appreciated by the people, who were eager to hear and understand every word spoken by President Ivins, Elder Lyman, and others who addressed them. A large native feast or Luau was held in the amusement hall on the plantation the night of the arrival of the Utah visitors. It was their first introduction to the various Hawaiian foods, which were all beautifully prepared and served. One can hardly imagine a more restful, quiet, romantic spot than Laie, and one week spent here was all too short. With memories of the place itself are memories of the delicious dinners at the home of Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins, and the banquet given for the visitors by Brother Henry Aki, a recent Chinese convert, and


are teaching and preaching, and in addition some are working on the temple itself as well as in other service connected with the temple. Others are working on the churches which are being built. All are happy and enthusiastic, and sent love and greetings to their loved ones in Zion.
Preceding the Honolulu conference, a Relief Society conference was held with all the branches in and about Honolulu represented. Relief Society work in the Hawaiian mission is in charge of Mrs. Louise C. Neff and is in most excellent condition. It has been established so many years that many of the women have grown old in the work and all of them seem familiar with it. Mrs. Neff is ably assisted by her counselors, two very
President and Mrs. Ivins, taken on board steamer "Maui," leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
Elder and Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, taken on board steamer "Maui," Leaving Honolulu for San Francisco.
capable Hawaiian sisters, Mrs. Minerva Fernandez, who is a veteran Relief Society worker, and who was a close associate of the former queen; and Mrs. James McQuire, who received her early education and musical training in Germany. There are thirty-six Relief Society branches in the mission, with 861 members. The local presidents are all native Hawaiians, and manage the affairs of their respective branches most capably. Many of the women are excellent speakers and preside with dignity and poise. Last year $1,670.28 was paid out for charity in the mission, 785 days were spent with the sick, and there were 823 special visits to the sick in addition to the 1801 regular visits by the Relief Society teachers.


Brother Bright reported for his wife, who is president of the Relief Society of Molokai, but who, on account of being afflicted with leprosy is not allowed to leave the colony. There are thirty members in this branch, most of whom are blind and crippled. They all attend Relief Society meetings regularly, however, where, Brother Bright said, they receive inspiration, encouragement, and comfort. Their food and clothing are supplied them by the Board of Health, and with their small allowances they have been able to accumulate a charity fund of $120 which will be used to help the most unfortunate.
The music of the conference was a special feature and showed musical ability on the part of the women, and also careful preparation. Sisters Ivins and Lyman emphasized here as at other meetings, proper home-maki