
652 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
12.  To  whom  was  the  last  parable  spoken,  and  what  great  Latter- 
day  Saint  lesson  is  taught  by  it? 
13.  Discuss   the   problem:    Our   good   works   follow   ug   as   lifting 
levers. 
LESSON  II 
(Second  Week  in  February) 
Work  and  Business 
Teachers'  Topic  for  February 
Curfew  Law 
A.  A  siren  or  bell  should  not  be  necessary  to  establish  the 
observance  of  this  law. 
B.  A  sentiment  in  favor  of  its  value  ought  to  be  encouraged 
in  every  home. 
C.  The  Lord  has  told  us  the  value  of  retiring  early,  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  88. 
D.  Sleep  is  as  conducive  to  health  as  food. 
LESSON  III 
(Third  Week  in  February) 
Literature 
SIDNEY  LANIER 
Sidney  Lanier  was  a  notbale 
example  of  a  man  of  versatile  talent. 
He  seemed  for  many  years  of  his  life 
as  much  the  musician  as  the  poet. 
Only  as  he  matured  did  it  become 
apparent  that  he  had  more  creative 
ability  as  a  poet  than  he  had  as  a 
musician.  Yet  the  fact  that  he  was 
a  musician  made  of  hjm  one  of  those 
rare  singers,  the  music  of  whose 
verse  thrills  with  a  satisfaction  un- 
known, where  the  feeling  for  mu- 
sic is  lacking.  Such  a  poet  was  John 
Milton  among  the  English,  and  such 
a  poet  was  Sidney  Lanier  among 
Americans. 
We  have  already  noted  the  music  of  Edgar  Allen  Poe's  verse, 
who,  like  Lanier,  was  of  Southern  birth. 
Critics  are  pretty  generally  agreed  that  no  one  but  a  man 

GUIDE  LESSONS  FOR  FEBRUARY  653 
of  Southern  birth  could  have  written  what  Sidney  Lanier  wrote; 
consequently  he  becomes  an  intepreter  of  the  section  that  gave 
him  birth. 
His  life  was  a  severe  struggle  with  untoward  circumstances. 
War,  poverty,  and  serious  ill  health,  growing  out  of  the  hardships 
of  both  poverty  and  war,  were  his  portion.  One  cannot  resist 
wondering  what  his  contribution  might  have  been  had  he  been 
nurtured  in  an  environment  such  as  Longfellow  and  Lowell  knew. 
He  was  born  in  Macon,  Georgia,  February  3,  1842.  He 
attended  school  until  the  age  of  fourteen,  when  he  entered  Ogle- 
thrope  college. 
His  musical  gift  was  inherited,  for  as  a  boy  he  could  play 
any  instrument  he  tried.  His  favorite  instrument  was  the  violin, 
which  proved  to  be  so  wearing  on  his  sensitive  nature  that, 
yielding  to  his  fathers  request,  he  gave  it  up  and  devoted  himself 
to  the  flute.  He  mastered  the  flute  without  instruction,  and 
later  "attained  great  distinction  as  first  flutist  in  the  Peabody 
Orchestra,  of  Baltimore,"1  say  his  biographers.  After  being 
graduated  he  served  as  a  tutor  for  nearly  a  year,  resigning  to 
enlist  in  the  Confederate  army,  in  April,  1861.  He  went  through 
the  war  as  a  private,  declining  several  offers  of  promotion,  be- 
cause he  was  unwilling  to  be  separated  from  his  brother  Clifford 
to  whom  he  was  devoted,  in  an  extraordinary  degree.  How- 
ever, close  to  a  year  before  the  war  was  over  the  two  were 
separated  by  being  detailed  as  signal  officers  on  board  a  blockade 
runner.  While  in  this  service,  Sidney  was  captured,  and  im- 
prisoned for  five  months.  During  the  war  he  began  to  develop 
symptoms  of  tuberculosis.  Imprisonment  in  the  wretched  prison 
at  Point  Lookout,  North  Carolina,  provided  just  the  development 
of  the  disease ;  consequently  Sidney  Lanier  may  be  regarded 
as  one  of  the  victims  of  the  Civil  War,  as  his  death  was  un- 
doubtedly the  result  of  living  the  life  of  a  soldier. 
On  his  release  from  prison  on  February,  1865,  he  walked 
home  to  Georgia,  where  he  went  through  a  severe  illness  of  six 
weeks.    Just  as  he  recovered  his  mother  died. 
Poverty  had  engulfed  the  Lanier  family  as  it  had  thousands 
of  other  southern  families,  so  that  this  gifted  son  of  the  South 
took  the  first  occupation  that  presented  itself,  which  chanced  to 
be  a  clerkship  in  an  Alabama  hotel,  at  Montgomery.  In  May, 
1867,  Lanier  went  to  New  York  to  arrange  for  the  publication 
of  his  war  novel  Tiger  Lilies.  In  September  of  the  same  year 
he  became  principal  of  a  school  in  Prattsville,  Alabama.  Three 
months  after,  he  married  Miss  Mary  Day  of  his  own  home 
town,  Macon,  Georgia.  The  union  proved  to  be  ideally  happy, 
and  might  almost  be  classed  with  such  a  marriage  as  Elizabeth 
Barrett  and  Robert  Browning.     From  his  devotion  to  his  wife
