JEANIE DUNCAN'S PROMISE 239 unshed tears, entreating her lo¢ter, Bob Laidlaw, a handsome fairhaired young man, to come into the house. "No, I winnar, Jeanie," he said stubbornly, "if that's tae be your answer I'm no comin' in we-hae kent yin anither lang enough without waitin' anither three years." "Well, J hae telt you Bob, that I canna mairry you afore that, I geid mother my promise, I would look efter them a'. I'll no brak it for you nor naebody," she replied firmly. "Three years is a guid slice oot 0' a man's life." "No, when folk's as young as we are," insisted Jeanie. "Kate's auld enough toe keep the hoose an your faither micht mairry again. Whaur'll you be then?" he asked. "Kate's no able toe manage them a', an as for faither mairryin' again, that will never be I ken whit mither wis tae him," she concluded with a break in her voice. Bob muttered something under his breath "about the selfishness o' some folk." ' "Well Bob," said Jeanie, "I think you should be the last tae speak aboot folk bein' selfish; an if that's what you think, you can hae this back," pulling off her engagement ring, and handing it towards him. "Maybe in Glesca you'll get some ither lassie tae suit you better." "Keep the ring, Jeanie, you'll maybe change your mind yet." "That is impossible," she replied, "Dinna build your hopes on that. You'd better tak it back as the sicht o't wad only bring back memories." He took it rather unwillingly and slipped it into his vest pocket. "You'll maybe rue this an' get a' your thanks in ae day." "Pl risk it," she replied, quietly, "Folk dinna rue doin' their duty, and mine's here meantime. Sae I'll bid you good-bye Bob," and she held out her hand. He took her hand rather reluctantly, an imploring look in his eyes.. "If you think better aboot this matter, let's ken.". Jeanie watched him as he walked down the pathway to the gate, which he opened and shut, never once glancing back to his erstwhile sweetheart. Entering the cozy little kitchen, she sat down in a chair and burst into tears. Her disappointment was keen. She had never entertained a moment's doubt but that Bob wouid be willing to wait for her. They had been lovers ever since their schooldays, and had looked forward to the time when they would be together for life. Now all these plans were altered by the death of her mother. Bob; who was a grocer, had recently got a good situation in a large store in Glasgow, and was at the present time spending his Summer holidays in his native village. They were to have been married at the new year, and, no doubt, thought! Jeanie, he had good reason to be hurt and disappointed, but she had 
 imagined that if he had the love he professed for her, he would have approved of her decision. After all they were both very young. She recalled a favorite verse of her own in the Bible, "Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning." These words were like a benediction to her, a message from God, and so she dried her tears and rose to prepare the evening meal. A low tap came to the door, and she opened it to admit a tall, rather ungainly young man who ambled rather than walked into the middle of the kitchen floor. He took off his cap and stood nervously twisting it in his hands. "Jeanie," he commenced, falteringly, "I hae come tae bid you good-bye, and I am off the morn tae Glesca, and sail on Saturday for America tae work on my uncle's farm." "T hope you get on weel, Donald, it's no likely 'we'll see you here again," she replied. "Jeanie," he said rather hhesitatingly and coming nearer to her, 'I hope you winna be offendit at what I am goin' tae say, but I met Bob Laidlaw no long ago, and he told me it was a' up between you an him, he said you wanted him tae wait three years afore you wad mairry him, and he wadna do it. Jeanie," he went on and laid his hand on her shoulder, "I wasna goin tae say anything when I kent you were engaged tae Bob, but I hae aye cared for you, and jl wad wait twenty years for you if youjust said the word." "Thank you, Donald," she answered quietly, "Mairriage is no for me an' I wadna tie nae man down noo, pit a thochts o' me oot o' your heed, and when you are in America you will get some nice lassie tae mairry you.' "Never, Jeanie," and drawing himself up, "I'll come back for you in twenty years as shair as my name is Donald Grant." Jeanie smiled as she held out her hand to bid him good-bye. "Weel hae it your ain way; time will tell." With a warm handshake he said, "You hae my promise, anyway," and took his departure. By and by, her father, wearied 'with a hard day's esorta came in al all the children. After their supper, the boys had to be helped with their lessons, and the youngest of them all, a bright fair-haired toddler had to be bathed, and as she snuggled in Jeanie' s arms and lisped her prayer, a great peace stole into her heart and she felt indeed that her duty lay amongst them. That night after all the children were in bed, Jeanie told her father about Bob Laidlaw, but forebore to tell him of Donald Grant's offer and all the answer he vouchsafed was, "You were faur ower guid for him onyway. Sometimes thae things happen for the best, although we dinna see it at the time." Summer and Autumn passed, and at the New Year word came to Glencraig that Bob Laidlaw had married a Glasgow girl. In the privacy of her own room Jeanie shed bitter tears. She JEANIE DUNCAN'S PROMISE 241 had loved him dearly and 'had hoped against hope that he would return and wait for her, but she resolutely turned down that page of her life. Time rolled on. Ten years had passed away, and Jeanie's father, who had never been the same since the death of his wife, contracted a lingering illness, which proved fatal. His daughter nursed him faithfully, and with his last breath he blessed and thanked her for her goodness to him. Kate had married and gone to live in Edinburgh, and the two boys were working and helping to keep the home together. Jeanie had no regrets. She had fulfilled her promise to her dying mother, and was quite happy and contented. Another ten years elapsed. Her two brothers had emigrated to Canada, and were doing well; while Elsie, her baby sister, had got recently marriec, and now \she was left alone. It was in the month of June, and Jeanie was standing in the little garden, just the same riot of flowers and perfumes as it was twenty years ago, and her eyes grew moist as she watched the setting sun creeping behind the surrounding heather-covered hills. She, like the psalmist of old, had lifted her eyes to the hills and found 'there strength and endurance jwhen the daily cares of her life threatened to overwhelm her. Time had dealt kindly with her. 'Her face was perhaps a little less rounded, but her dark eyes had not lost their sparkle, nor her hair its bright 'sheen. Her face appeared to be even sweeter than of yore, and her figure was still as lithesome. For this was Jeanie's last night in Glencraig. She had given up the little cottage and sold nearly all the furniture to the incoming tenant. Her own belongings were all packed and ready for removal on the morrow. She was going to take up her abode in Edinburgh beside her sister Kate for a time. Her two brothers had offered her a home in Canada, and she resolved that she would go there in the future. Her thoughts wandered back to that night many years ago, when she had parted from two lovers. Bob Laidlaw she had only seen once since, just a chance meeting on the street, when they hardly recognized each other. If report spoke truly, he had taken very much to drink and neglected his wife who had died recently and left him with a family. Jeanie passed into the house, oa looked around the kitchen where she had spent all her life. Every corner, every article of furniture was dear to her. There was her father's easy chair, and her mother's kitchen dresser, 'and now they all belonged to strangers. No wonder she felt sad. Glancing out at the little window she saw a stout heavily built man walk up the little path towards the house. She opened the door, and to her surprise beheld her old lover, Bob Laidlaw. "Tt's me, Jeanie Lass," holding out his hand which she took rather reluctantly. "As sure as I kent you were leavin' here, | came frae Glesca tae see you afore you left." 
 "Come in,' she said wondering greatly. He lumbered in and sank heavily into the chair which she pointed to. "Tl stay a wee while, Jeanie, I hae something special toe say, eh, Jeanie," he went on as he gazed admiringly at her,,"You're no looking a bit aulder since you were a wee lassie, you hae kept your age weel." Jeanie looked critically at him before replying, could she ever have been in love with this coarse heavy dissipated-looking man, and she shuddered inwardly. ( "The time for compliments frae you, Bob Laidlaw, was past long ago," she returned jcoldly. "Wuman, you dinna need tae be sae high and michty nae doot you wad hear I lost my wife nine months ago, and I hae come tae ask you tae mairry me and gaw back to Glesca and help tae bring the bairns up." The man's coolness fairly took her breath away. "Indeed," she replied indignantly, "dae you no think I hae had my share o' bringing up bairns, and as for tae be your wife, never. That was a ower lang ago." "What for no'? He asked trying to catch hold of her hand, which she withdrew quickly. "Weel, in the first place I dinna care for you, and in the second I'm no goin' to make a slave o' mysel' a' my days." "You'd better think twice afore you refuse. Offers like mine dinna grow on berry bushes, especially for auld maids like yoursel'," he added insultingly. "Auld maids, indeed!" retorted Jeanie hotly, "hoo daur you insult me?" Going to the door she opened it, saying, "I dinna send for you, Bob Laidlaw, and if you hae a spark o' manliness left in you, which I much doot, leave this hoose without ony mair adoe.", He saw the look of determination on her face and realized that he had overstepped the mark this time, and as he rose slowly from the chair, he remarked sullenly, ""What a temper you've got, Jeanie," and when he reached the door, as a parting shot he added: "Tt's maybe as weel I dinna get you." Jeanie made no reply, but shut the door and sitting down on the easy chair gave herself up to reflections. After all her years of selfsacrifice and toil, she was termed an "Auld maid." That was how the: world regarded her. Up to the present, in spite of the difficulties, she had to pay her way and keep the rest respectable, her life had been a sheltered one. Only twice in her lifetime had she been in a large town, when she visited her sister Kate in Edinburgh, and she recalled how glad she had been when she had arrived home again, and it suddenly dawned upon her how wholly untried and unfitted she was at forty years of age to begin to battle with the outside world. Then her thoughts took a new turn. She was a little girl once more, playing with the other JEANIE, DUNCAN'S PROMISE 243 children, and had scratched her hand with the prickly bushes _ which grew at tthe side of the road. It had started to bleed and Donald Grant, a little barefooted boy had drawn a dirty ragged handkerchief from his pocket and made a rough attempt to bind the wound. Again, on another occasion when they were on their way homewards from 'school, there had been a considerable rainfall, and one part of the road resembled a pool. Donald had lifted her up bodily and waded through the water, until he found a place of safety for her. How she had laughed at the time, she remembered; her feet were dry while the other children had to take off their boots and stockings before ene) could wade across. Strange that tonight memories of Donald Grant obtruded themselves on her mind. Never once since she had parted from him so long ago had she ever given him a thought. He had completely passed out of her life, and no news as to how he had fared ever reached her. He was an orphan, and the relative who brought him up, died shortly after he left the village. Thus musing, Jeanie fell asleep and began to dream. She dreamed that she was with Donald again, but quite a different Donald from the shy awkward lad of her youth. She was clinging to his arm and the countryside was different from the one at home. Wilder and grander. They seemed to be in the midst of hills, majestic and noble-looking, and he was pointing to a large farmhouse in the distance saying, "That is your home and mine, Jeanie, to be together for all time." A sound of knocking at the door nal someone entering the room awoke her, 'and she sat up and rubbed her eyes. Had she been 'dreaming? For there in the middle of the floor stood a man gazing at her. The selfsame man of her dreams—Donald. 'For a few minutes she regarded him silently, and thoughts chased rapidly through her brain. Yes, it was Donald, sure enough, but changed. His former awkwardness had vanished, and he was now a tall, wellbuilt, muscular man, and his face betokened the look of a man who had fought his way valiantly through life and won. There was still the same steadfast gaze in his grey eyes, 'Jeanie noticed, and he had taken off his hat, and his hair which was still abundant was brushed neatly back over his head. Altogether a most attractive looking man was her unspoken thought. He waited for her to speak, and then he broke the silence. "Have fyou no welcome for me?" he said as he held out his hand. 'She rose and gave him her hand which he gripped firmly as he went on, "You remember twenty years ago in this very spot I said I would wait for you, Jeanie, that time is now up, and I have kept my promise." The mists seemed to clear from her brain, and a thrill shot 244 RELIEF SOCIETY \MAGAZINE through her, and she realized what a tower of strength this man would be. "Welcome, Donald," she said at last, "When you gaid awa that time I never thought I wad see 'you again. I had sae mony cares tae tak up my attention." "Listen, Jeanie," he began, still holding her hand, "your cares are all over now. After I had been in America for four years my uncle died and left me his farm which I sold as I did not like the place. I wandered about looking for a suitable place and I landed in a valley which lay in the heart of the rocky mountains. I bought a small ranch, which now extends many miles, and 1 have prospered exceedingly well, and, Jeanie, you have been my lodestar. Perhaps,' he went on, "you were not aware that 1 left a friend in the village who kept me informed about 'your welfare, and when news of Elsie's marriage reached me, I hurried off 'and came here as quick as boat and train could bring me, as I knew you would be alone, and Jeanie, I now dwell amongst a people who are good and true and have high and noble ideals of life, whose religion I have adopted, and there you, too, will find friends and a welcome awaiting you. What is your answer to be?" he asked. For a minute or two Jeanie bent her head and was silent, and the verse in the Bible which had comforted her so much in recent years, flashed across her mind. "Sorrow may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning." As before, she regarded this as a message from above. She lifted her eyes up to Donald's face, a happy smile stealing over her countenance, and he read his answer in her eyes, and drew her unresisting form close to his heart. Oan a Jeanie is perfectly happy in her mountain home, and with the love and friendship of the kindly people, with whom her lot in life is now cast, and has never regretted her years of self-sacrifice and toil for others. She has realized to the fullest extent that God never forsakes those who love Him, and do His will and keep His commandments. -