MARY E. H. COTTERELL AND BABE The Mother To Be By Lucy Wright Snow O, babe of mine, so close under my heart, Thou, of my body yet even a part, Let me but clasp thee in my loving arms! My soul doth thrill in housing thee, and warms My mother blood to tingle in my veins; Thou'rt bound unto me by a thousand chains. Oh, God! Give unto me both strength and power To set thee free in thine own day and hour. Catch thou at thine appointed time, thy breath My babe, oh, courage! Hold! This is not death. I'll help thee, little one, for God hath smiled On me and thee and destined thee to earth, F'en as he hath blest me to give thee birth. Now, hold thee still and wait but yet a while, All will be well with us, none shall beguile, Nor me nor thee—the promise hath been spoken, And thou shalt be a testament and token. 
 Glimpses of the Taj Mahal By Dr. Franklin S. Harris, President Brigham y oung University Have you ever felt like sitting down and doing a little weeping cut of sheer ecstasy? I have had this feeling a number of times during the last two days, although I am sorry that there have been too many people around to permit me to enjoy the luxury without being conspicuous. Some people are touched by beautiful music or by a poem; some are stirred at the display of the flag or by a patriotic appeal; some have their emotions aroused by the beauties of nature; some find the greatest thrill in a beautiful painting or piece of sculpture; probably all are aroused at an act of a person showing love and appreciation. My emotions have been stirred today and yesterday by'a sort of. Combination of these situations. The principal stimulus has come from seeing things of indescribable beauty; this has been augmented by a consciousness that these beautiful things owed their origin to the noblest of human qualities. I am at Agra, India, where are found some of the finest works of art in the Orient, or in the entire world for that matter. For hundreds of years this has been a center of art and it has contained many of the finest structures of a certain type that have ever been erected. The Emperor Akbar, who was one of the greatest rulers who ever reigned in any country, lived here during the early part of his reign. He is responsible for some of the fine things in this region, but most of the best work was done after he died. I | Of course, the outstanding structure here is the Taj Mahal, which is recognized as the most beautiful building ever erected by the hand of man. It was commenced by the Emperor Shah Jahan, in 1630 A. D., as a tomb for his wife, Arjmand Banu. It took 
 The Taj Mahal looking southwest from across the Jumna River. More than twenty-two years to build it, and during the course of its construction thousands of men were constantly employed in the work. Not that it is so large—any good sized office building in our cities contains more material—but there is such an infinite amount of detail work which had to be done in the most painstaking manner. It is all made of white marble which is inlaid with marble: of many other colors, also with jade, cornelian, jasper "and other precious and ornamental stones. In one of the flowers on the tomb I counted thirty-two separate pieces of stone which were required to give the proper shading. These were all set into the white marble with such perfect workmanship that no joints could be detected and the whole thing was left as smooth as the top of a polished table. In the various parts of the building and its supporting structures there are untold thousands of these flowers and conventional designs worked out with as much exactness as the pattern on your favorite scarf. Not only are the details wonderful, but the entire structure is so thoroughly balanced that it gives a feeling of wonderful harmony when viewed from any direction. The individual parts which compose it are almost perfect and all of them