glimpses of children at play. Their shrill voices came from every direction, triumphant shouts of welcome to the Spring. In the adjoining vacant lot a diminutive nine played the national game with noisy enthusiasm. The littler boys 'whose tender years excluded them from the big game were quarreling noisily over a game of 'lag-outs'. Farther up the street three little girls played at dolls, while another wielded a skipping rope to the rhythm of a wonderful chant. As these human signs of Spring caught her attention, a look of irritation crossed Martha's pleasant face. Not that she disliked children. Far from it. Martha Harmon considered herself a real lover of little ones. Her friends all agreed that she was the most devoted mother in the world, and her two children, clean, wholesome and well-behaved, proved that the statement was not exaggerated. Since Billy came, nine years$ before, Martha had uever willingly missed a lecture or failed to read any new authority who might help'her attain more efficient motherhood. Billy and Margaret bathed, exercised, ate, or napped with a fearful regularity. Twice a year the dentist inspected their correctly brushed teeth, and when the proper time came for the ceremony, each child was relieved of tonsils and adenoids, in spite of Grandma Harmon's horrified protest that none of her ten were ever submitted to such barbarity. Yes, indeed, Martha loved her little ones, and the children of her old school friends liked nothing better than a day at Auntie Harmon's, but loving dainty Margaret or fresh-cheeked Billy was one thing, while even jtolerating the McSwinney's numerous offspring was another matter entirely. 
 It was the sight of the McSwinney brood, one or two of whom were in every playing group, that brought the frown to Martha's face. What was wrong with the McSwinneys, you ask? In 'the first place Martha felt that eight children in these modern days of tiny yards and closely built houses, constitute a disturbance of the peace, or rather eight disturbances, to say the least. Mrs. McSwinney herself was undisturbed. Indeed, that worthy individual had passed through so many family upheavals, births, quarantines, broken limbs, and other excitement incident to the rearing of a large family, that she was not to be easily upset by such trifles as a bit of dirt, or a little noise. There was so much to be done that she didn't know where to begin, so she seldom began at all. Going up or down the street in a torn kimono, her hair uncombed, her shoes half laced, she was a-never ending eyesore to fastidious (Martha. Only once had Martha been in the McSwinney home. Larry had cut his hand and she went in to help dress it. The piles of unwashed dishes, the swarming flies and general chaos of that kitchen had appalled her, and the memory still remained to haunt her. The McSwinney children roamed the streets in all stages of dress, or rather undress. Apparently most of their meals were taken enroute, for one or another of them was forever passing with a huge'slice of bread from which honey or molasses dripped on the sidewalk. Even though Martha admitted that they were a happy, generous, friendly lot, it annoyed her to see them squatting cn her well kept lawn, and she had no desire to have her children acquire their slang or noisy ways. Many a night Martha lay awake, wondering if it would not be best to sell the little home and move far away from the McSwinneys. But she loved the home where her children had been born, and, after all, as her husband philosophically assured her, no real estate man could furnish a pedigree for every neighbor on the block. Without a written guarantee, how could she be sure she wasn't jumping from the frying pan into the fire, unless, as he jokingly added, "we get wealthy enough to move into a swell neighborhood where kids are tabooed and everybody raises a poodle. Then, madam, what would you do with our precious infants?" It was these thoughts that robbed the Spring day of part of its brightness. As Martha turned to go in, her little Margaret came around the house. "Oh, mama," she pleaded, "can't I ride my tricycle up and down the block? It's so nice out doors and there isn't any mud on the pavement. See, I have my hat on." "Yes, dear; don't go around the corner," and Martha kissed