A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	"A happy new year!" Would that each day of
life might be as joyous to our friends as is the
sound of this old familiar phrase. Four little
words that never can grow old, but only sound
better and cheerier each succeeding year, echoing
from every side as friend meets friend. In their
utterance the voice assumes a gayer tone, the face
a brighter aspect, the hand a heartier clasp and
the heart a lighter throb; sorrow seems to vanish
from the mind, the past is recalled as a gentle
dream, and the future gleams before us only as
some brightly colored picture. Fain would we
pause upon the threshold and think of the coming
year as only a succession of bright and happy


days, where peace, joy and happinesa will reign
in every heart; but turning for one brief moment
to the year just past, the view is not all so bright
as we should love to recall, for we see our homes
overhung with fears. We know that among the
homes of our people are many hearths where
some dear one is missing, driven forth from the
society of loved ones by the unjust decrees of
wicked men. Imprisonment and exile deprive us
of the society of our loved and revered fathers
and husbands, and falteringly as a little child first
attempts to walk,or a young bird to try its pinions,
we draw aside the curtain to glance for one brief
moment into the dim and mystic future. Gazing
into the picture, which but a moment since was
all so bright and gay, we discern clouds and
shadows; yet what do they signify? They but
mellow and enhance its beauty a thousand fold.
The life that has endured all—sunshine and
shadow combined—tells ever the most beautiful
and touching story. Though we cannot foretell
the coming events, we know by our past history
that when our enemies sought to destroy us, God
prospered us the more.
	Our greatest joys have ever been attained
through trials most bitter and severe. It was not
the brightest prospect for our people when they
were forced to leave their homes and dear ones in
Nauvoo and wander over the trackless desert in
search of a resting place—no green and beautiful
valley surrounded with the grandest mountains,
watered by the purest streams, dotted with the
loveliest lakes and filled with the happiest homes,
such as they now have—beamed before them;
they only saw a long, weary journey, leading they
knew not whither, and bringing them they knew
not what; but the journey was not all pain, it had
its pleasures, too, and who doubts but that the
hearts that endured the hardships were far happier
than the ones that caused them, and we know that
the homes built in Zion were far more peaceful
than the ones left in Nauvoo. What is that city
now? Not prosperous as it bid fair to become,
but only a deserted village, saddened with strange
memories and stained with martyrs' blood. We
have nothing to regret in looking back, for our
Heavenly Father has ever guarded and guided us
through the bitterest trials, and as the past has
been so may the future be; in looking forward we
have nothing to dread. The past has ever taught
us how much better it is to suffer wrong than to
do wrong; that joys are ever mingled with our
pains, and that the brightest rewards await the
greatest sufferers.
	As we look further into the picture, we discover
that the shadows but faintly conceal brighter
scenes, even as the clouds sometimes cover from
view the brightest stars; we must not long to re-
move them, but await the course of time.
	To all our readers we extend wishes of joy and
happiness for the coming year. May it be the
brightest of your lives. If any of you have fears
or sorrows, may they be removed and healed, and
may health, peace and prosperity attend you all.
Once more—"a happy new year."


