	Y. L. M. I. A. OF RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference of Riverdale
was held at the residence of Sister Martha
Bingham, on Thursday, Nov. 26th, at 2 p.m.,
a large number of the Association being pres-
ent. The meeting was conducted by Prest.
Maria Russell. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound;" opening prayer by Mary
A. Stimpson. After singing again, the minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved, and the statistical and financial re-
ports were read by the Secretary, Julia Child.
The following programme was then rendered:
The Young Ladies' "Instructor" was first
read, edited by Polly Child; a chapter from
the Bible by Nellie Child; a dialogue from six
members of the Association; a song, "Hard
times come again no more," was beautifully
rendered by Jessie McDonald, after which
Prest. Russell gave a lecture from the Bible,
of which the following is a synopsis: The
gifts and blessings of the Gospel, recorded in

[Column 3]

the 2nd chapter of the Acts of the Apostles,
are within the reach of all of us; if we will
stand firm and be determined to press on in
the principles which we know to be true, Satan
will not have power over us, for the Lord will
be our helper and will bless us accordingly. If
we strive to live our religion, when we or our
families are sick we can call upon the Lord
and He will hear us. The Lord wishes us to
become as one and to help the poor, and if we
are blessed with this world's goods, we should
be willing to part with some, that we may aid
those who are in need, and have not the many
comforts of life. Urged the sisters to come to
meetings with prayerful hearts, and strive to
have the spirit of the Lord with them at all
times.
	Coun. Nancy Bybee said, "As this is thanks-
giving Day we should all feel to thank the
Lord that our lives have been spared for
another year;" she had seen many prophecies
fulfilled within the last year, which made her
heart rejoice, for she knew that we were en-
gaged in a great and good work.
	Sister E. L. Thompson Felt a desire
to see all improve, and thought the young sis-
ters should prepare themselves for the many
trials they will be called to pass through.
Bore a faithful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	Sister M. Mitchell bore her testimony to the
work of the Lord; said, "Our enemies can do
a great deal, but they cannot destroy this work,
for the Lord will overrule all things for our
best good." Felt to encourage the young, and
urged them to press on in the good work in
which they were engaged.
	The Association sang the hymn, "Now we'll
sing with one accord," etc. Sisters McDonald
and Maggie Child bore testimony, and felt to
do all in their power to help to build up the
kingdom of God. "We must not waste our
time and sit idle, but study more upon "the
principles of the Gospel, that we may be pre-
pared for the second coming of the Lord. We
should cultivate a spirit of love and union to
a greater extent in our midst, as unless we
are firm and steadfast we will be led away
from this Church.
	Coun. Lucinda Bingham urged the sisters to
come to meeting as often as they possibly could
and try to do all in their power to help to
build up the kingdom of God.
	Prest. Russell made some closing remarks
upon prayer and the laying on of hands for
the healing of the sick.
	Singing, "Now, let us rejoice," etc. The
benediction was pronounced by Agnes Patter-
son.		ELIZA W. CHILD.
	Riverdale, Weber Co. Dec. 1st, 1885.


The habit of faltering and disguising
and concealing, and putting forward the edge
of a truth, instead of showing boldly the full
face of it, at last leads men into an insincerity
so habitual that they really do not know when
they speak the truth or not.—Cardinal Man-
ning.
	TALK—"The power to converse well is a
very great charm," says Ruskin. "You think
anybody can talk. How mistaken you are!
Anybody can chatter. Anybody can exchange
idle gossip. Anybody can recapitulate the
troubles of the kitchen, the cost of the last
new dress, and the probable doings of the
neighbors. But to talk wisely, instructively,
freshly, and delightfully, is an immense accom-
plishment. It implies exertion, observation,
study of books and people, and receptivity of
impression. Plato banished the musicians from
his feasts that the charms of conversation might
have no interference; but in our later fashions
many prefer music rather than the gossip of
the hour, which often degenerates into triviali-
ties, wearisome and commonplace.”


