FROM SALT LAKE TO NEW YORK.

	Leaving home abruptly may seem a little strange
to some of our readers, but even editors need a
change, if not a rest, and so, without further
apology for going, we will tell those who care to
know that on the morning of the 16th of December,
we said "good bye" for a short season to Salt
Lake City, and took the D. & R. G. Railway train
for the east. It has become proverbial that this
route has the most charming scenery of any road
adjacent to Salt Lake.
	The first place with which we were not already
familiar was Spanish Fork canon, though we had
heard it gloriously described by others. The
scene was wintry, but very fine, and although not
so beautiful as it would be in summer, yet suffi-
ciently picturesque to make it interesting. At
Price we saw, for a moment or two, young Bro.
Williams, who, with his brother-in-law, B. F.
Cummings, is putting up quite a pretentious store
at that settlement, which is, by the way, the last
"Mormon" town on the route. The next place of
special attraction and importance in the way of
scenery was Castle Gate, which fascinated one
with its impregnable rocky walls that seem to
frown down upon the traveler like formidable giant
structures. At this writing it is impossible to de-
cide whether mountains covered with verdure, or
wild, wierd rocky heights are the most attractive.
It is not surprising that the Indian loves these
giant rocks and their surroundings, for it must be
something sublimely grand to hear the roar of
the cataract, or the dashing, foaming river in these
mountain regions, and the eagle's shrill call and
echo reverberating among these rocky passes;
and when the wind sighs and moans along the
new fissures or cuts, and bursts forth into a tre-
mendous shriek as it gushes out into the broader
opening, it has a tone of the strength of an agony
that breaks down all the barriers of conventionali-
ty, vents itself in wild sounds that pierce, as 'twere,
the very heavens. The imagination has ample
opportunity for play in gazing on such stupendous
wonders in nature as Castle Gate, and the sur-
rounding similar rocky castles, towers, turrets and
pillars.  One can readily believe there were secure
hiding places here for the Gadianton robbers in
such mountain fastnesses. In one's mind many a
strange tale of gypsies, giants, robbers and
brigands might be formulated in thought while
passing through Castle Valley, though one had
not the time or conscience to weave them into
romances to be given to the public. Soon after
passing Castle Valley going eastward, daylight
begins to fade away, and the outlines of these
wondrous pictures grow more dim and indistinct,
but a trifle more weird still, and fainter and fainter,
until the moon and stars announce the approach
of night.
	Learning that the train would pass through 
Black Canon during the night, we asked the
porter to call out, that we might awaken and see
something of this shadowy and dismal region; he
did so, and as it was a clear and starlit night, we

[Column 2]

had the satisfaction of peering out into this dark
and lonely place and observing the effect when the
fitful flashes of the light from the train played
among the black shrubs and trees and over the
mountain sides like a veritable "will o' the 
wisp," making a picture gloomy enough to sug-
gest ghosts, hobgoblins and nymphs of the
wood.
	The following morning the conductor informed
the passengers we should soon reach Marshal Pass
and Soldiers Summit, and in order to see all that
was possible, we went out on the rear platform.
The train was passing through snow sheds every
few minutes, and turning round and round the
mountains, the road seemingly forming a horse-
shoe at each of these turnings. Around these
high and steep mountains, which look nearly per-
pendicular, the railroad is cut into the side of the
mountain, and the train [looks as if it might be
precipitated at any moment into the yawning
chasm below. Many people, it is said, become
very nervous while passing over this part of the
way, but to us all fear was forgotton in the won-
der and grandeur of the marvelous scene with
which we were surrounded, and in admiration of
the adventurous and ambitious men who had pene-
trated this mountain region and prepared the way
for the iron horse to enter, snorting aud shrieking,
to waken up again to life and activity these lonely
and deserted regions, where the wild beasts and
birds of prey had held unlimited and undisputed
possession for generations past. Marshal Pass
has often been graphically described by tourists,
and one need not stretch the imagination at all to
give it importance, as it speaks for itself in terms
not to be mistaken, and all one has to do is to
gaze and admire. The Ouray Peak is pointed
out, and one has a fine view of it now and again
as the train whirls round and round. The Royal
Gorge and Grand Cañon of the Arkansas follow
in quick succession as the train travels rapidly
through these magnificent scenes, and one can
only remain perfectly silent and absorbed in con-
templation of this grand and glorious natural
scenery which the country affords to the eager
traveler. Language utterly fails to express the
impression this sublimity of grandeur makes upon
an ardent lover of nature; the most potent demon-
stration one can give to one's feelings, is to
quote the words of the inspired prophet, "Great
and wondrous are thy works, Lord God Al-
mighty."
	This route is worth all the risk one makes in
traveling over it, and for beauty and attractiveness,
surpasses anything we have yet seen in the way
of natural mountain scenery. All who travel for
pleasure or excitement or to view the wonders of
the world, should take at least one trip over this
far-famed railroad route. The train reached
Pueblo at 4.20 p.m., and then we alighted at a
large and comfortable station, where we were to
wait until the arrival of the A. T. & St. F. train,
about one hour and forty minutes. Most of the
passengers who were there to change cars took a
stroll around the city, for it is quite a town in-
deed, with handsome streets, stores, restaurants,
etc. We were under the impression that this was
the place where some of the Mormon Battalion
wintered, but on inquiry we were informed that it
was a little distance away, at old Pueblo, and we
had not time to go there. At six o'clock we were
again on the train, and going forward with all
possible speed.
	There was a little girl on the car who attracted
the attention of the passengers, it was a sort of
rarity and we enjoyed it very much; indeed it was a
treat to have a gladsome little creature like her
among so many selfish and matter of fact men, for
there were but three women in all. It made the time
time pass more pleasantly, for there was no scenery
to admire in that part of the journey, at this season
of the year.
	We reached Kansas city the next evening, just

[Column 3]

in time to catch the Chicago and Alton train. On
this road we passed some very pretty and stirring
villages and large towns, and the view was quite
pleasing, and as the evenings were moonlight, one
would not tire of looking until a late hour. There
was a sick man on board for whom we felt great
sympathy and for his wife, who by the way was
very agreeable and sociable; we learned that they
had been in Arizona, for some months past, in the
interest of the Smithsonian Institute at Washing-
ton. They know a number of the Mormon people
down there. The lady spoke freely of her work
and tastes, and of the great contrast in her life;
that in the Summer and Autumn she was generally
out in the mountains with her husband, exploring
for relics and curiosities in the interest of science,
a great part of the time on horseback, and in the
Winter, mingling in the life and society of the
Capital of the Great Republic. They were very
pleasant people and not at all lacking in courtesy
when they found they were conversing with a
Mormon.
	The train ran in to the depot at Chicago, at 2.30
p. m., and at 3.30 we were again steaming out of
that great city. One cannot see much in an hour
therefore we only had a ride in a coach or transfer
from one depot to another, to catch the Chicago &
Atlantic Express. While at the station, we heard
a conversation about Utah, between some ladies
who had been out there, and one who had not been
so far west. It was rather interesting, and more in
favor of the people than against them. There
were several men on the cars who occupied all
their time playing cards, while others discussed
science and religion. There were two ministers
and two Bible missionaries, at least so the con-
ductor said. A Japanese grandee occupied the
state room with his gentlemanly and white com-
panion, and they played cards and drank lots of
champagne. His two sons had a section next to
the state room and were reading books in the
Japanese language at first, but after a while they
commenced playing cards too. They were very
nicely dressed and very fine looking, yet their
faces were scarcely so pleasant and intelligent as
their father's.
	The train had to wait over at Homersville in
New York State, and the men in the Pullman car
were very much annoyed; from that time they
grew more restless and excited, and some became
quite angry, and the language they used was not
very choice. However, all things must have an
end and so had this trip and the train came into
Jersey City at ten minutes past one in the morning.
O, the noise, the hurry, worry, bustle and con-
fusion; immediately we were in a "bus" and being
ferried over to New York, where the noise was still
greater; and after driving over the stony pave-
ments, and it seemed going over miles and miles
of streets we alighted at the Grand Central Hotel
on Broadway, safe and well, having had no acci-
dent or even unpleasantness on the way. In our
next we will tell our readers something about New
York City, what we saw and whom we met, where
we went, and perhaps get as far as New Eng-
land.


