P. A. SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of this Stake held
their Conference in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Hall, Saturday, December 12th, 1885,
Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presiding. Opened
with singing by the children, "Did you think
to pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Children sang, "We want to see the Temple."
Minutes of the last conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Clawson made some remarks, and
stated that she decided at the last officers'
meeting not to have verbal reports, and make
the conference more instructive and interesting
to the children. Children sang, "Beautiful
Zion." Allie Cowan, 5th Ward, gave a recita-
tion. Prest. Louie Felt spoke a few minutes,
and asked the children some questions. Duet,
by two little girls from the 1st Ward.
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze spoke a few minutes,
and exhorted the children to keep the "Word
of Wisdom," and to obey their parents. Child-
ren of the 17th Ward sang, "The Primary
Children."
	Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of P. A. of
Davis Stake, addressed the meeting; told the
children that Christmas was near, and that
when she was a little girl, she always tried to
do better and begin anew at such times; re-
lated a little story, showing that the best
children got the best presents. Her remarks
were very interesting. Florence Pardoe, 6th
Ward, sang, "Peep-a-boo"
	Mrs. Maria Y. Dougal expressed her pleasure
and told the children to remember that they
were the hope of Israel; gave some good in-
structions. The children sang, "Gather them
into the fold." A recitation from the Bible,
twelve verses, a boy from the 13th Ward.
Jennie McLeon, Prest. of 10th Ward Primary,
spoke upon children praying, and broke forth
in the gift of tongues. Mrs. Sinah Bishop
gave the interpretation. A little girl of the
8th Ward sang a song. Three girls from that
ward sang, and then another, entitled, "A
brighter day to-morrow." Recitation by a
little girl. Prest. Clawson expressed her
pleasure with the exercises rendered. A duet
by two small girls from the 10th Ward.
Dialogue, two boys of the 5th Ward. A song
by the little girls of the 17th Ward. Three
little girls of the 15th Ward sang, "My native
home."
	Meeting adjourned for three months, to be
held at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice," etc. Benediction by
Mrs. Rogers.

