ON THIS PICTURE.
	I sit in my own doorway, facing the now golden
west, the sun whispering to the dimly outlined
moon behind a bank of dusky purple clouds, their
edges glistening with rosy pleasure at the approach
of their king; the mountain sides are clothed with
thick groves of trees, whose green crowns are
never cast to earth by winter's cold hand. The
little vale lying between my home and the hills is
checkered with rice fields, dotted with broad leaved
bananas, stately cocoanuts, and many other trop-
ical trees; here and there a grass hut, showing
olive and brown against the bright foliage, with
one or two whitewashed cottages, rest quietly in
the bosom of the pretty valley. At my feet (my
house is on a hill side) is one of these white cot-
tages, and it boasts a pretty garden of geraniums
and chrysanthemums.
	The cows in the adjacent green fields low mus-
ically for their young. The dusky natives clad in
bright colors, and graceful as panthers, go laugh-
ing past my door, from their work in the sugar
fields.
	I hear, away off, the voice of a child chanting a
weird mele (song) in the soft sounds of his native
tongue. I step softly out into the balmy twilight,
and my feet press down the velvety grass that
covers every inch of this my island home, and
look eastward to the sea. How dimly musical
sound the waves as they dash, now on to soft
sand, and anon up to the rocky promontory that
rises abrupt and grey away out in the deep sea.
	The restless waters look dark and purplish in


the gathering dusk, and the tiny island half a mile
out, looks, in this light, like the back of some
huge monster of the deep.
	In the Mission House, away a few rods to the
right, a flute breathes out the glorious tones of the
Miserere, and anon this melts into a quartette of
splendid voices singing Mendelssohn's Farewell
to the Far West.
	I listen with bated breath until the wide dark-
ness enwraps me in soft clinging arms, and then
go softly in with the faint tones of the voices still
reaching my ears! And so, the tropical glory of
the sunset is once more a thing of the past!
	Now gaze on

