THE DEATH OF THE YEAR.

	In this part of the world October is con-
sidered the month of falling leaves. The poet
John Fletcher understood this, and tells the
light in which he view it:

		"He that will to bed go sober,
		Falls with the leaves still in October."

	Some of Sir Walter Scott's descriptions re-
call many a fantastic scene to those who have
never beheld the landscapes he has painted in
such glowing colors. The following lines,
though having a local application, will suggest
to every lover of nature a picture oft seen;
though perhaps in different framings:

"Autumn departs, but still his mantle fold,
	Rests of the groves of noble Somerville,
Beneath a cloud of russet draped with gold.
	Hoarser the wind, and deeper sounds the rill,

[Column 2]

Yet lingering notes of sylvan music swell—
	The deep-toned cushat and the red-breast shrill.
And yet some tints of summer splendor dwell
	Where the broad sun sinks down on Ettrick's western
		fell."

	Shelley's lines on the dying year possess a
coloring that is singularly autumnal in many
particulars.

		The warm sun is failing,
		The bleak wind is wailing,
		The bare boughs are sighing,
		The pale flowers are dying,
			And the year
		On the earth, her death bed,
		In a shroud of leaves dead
			Is lying.
		Come, months, come away,
		From November to May,
		In your saddest array
			Follow the bier
		Of the dead, cold year,
		And like dim shadows watch by her sepulchre."

	While Tom Hood, in his odd style, gives a
quaint drawing of the approach of winter:

			"Boughs are daily rifled
				By the dusty thieves;
			And the book of nature
				Getteth short of leaves."

	But of all poets, none ever told the tale of
autumn in sweeter or truer tones than did
Bryant:

"The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,
Of wailing winds, and naked woods and meadows brown
	and sere;
Heeped in the hollows of the grove the autumn leaves lie
	dead;
They rustle with the eddying gust and to the rabbit's tread;
The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the
	joy.
And from the wood top calls the crow through all the
	gloomy day."

	Notwithstanding the great number of trees
and shrubs in this land, one does not see such
a variety of autumn tints as in Utah. The
brilliant colors of autumn in a mountainous
region, clothing the hills, as they do, in such
gorgeous hues that the eye is filled with a
picture of ineffable brilliance, are unknown
here. The reason is easily given. In Utah
the frost comes while the leaf is still in the
vigor of life, and turns it into colors of indes-
cribable loveliness, each species of vegetation
having a tint peculiar to [---]. The con[---]
of endless living colors [---] in that divine
harmony which distance always gives, produces
a combination of such brilliant hues as painter,
in his wildest aspirations, never dreamed of
seeing realized on canvas. But in Ireland, the
frost creeps on slowly. The leaves are already
changing from the prevailing green to a
deadened brown by the process natural to
vegetable life; and by the time autumn nights
bring that nipping air we sometimes feel on
summer evenings, the leaves have lost their vi-
tality, and every gust of wind sends them
trembling and eddying to the ground like snow
flakes, while the boughs are bereft and denuded.
The beech, of trees that are not evergreen,
holds its garb longest and is often a brilliant
yellow, particularly if it be small and the
leaves are on new and tender wood. The long
and ever visible hawthorne hedges soon lose
their apparel; its leaves dry up, curl and turn
a dull dead brown in painful contrast with the
fresh and still green foliage and long arms of
the blackberry, which runs through and

[Column 3]

through the hedges, intertwining itself with the
more vigorous, if not more hardy, thorn.
The fir, the laurel, the yew and the juniper re-
tain their undying green, which winter seems
only to make still brighter. The holly, with
its polished, jagged leaves and bright red
berries, is ever the picture of life and loveliness,
of which the eye never tires, and which is full
of such joyous suggestions as gladden the heart
and bring back the memory of many happy
days that have gone with many a painful sigh
and many a heartache. Viewing a grove in
the distance, some approach to a bright red
may be seen; and there are at times innumer-
able shades of yellow and endless varieties of
subdued brown and russet; but one looks in
vain for those fiery tints which seem to set the
groves aflame and which brighten and make
beautiful the deadest of surroundings, such as
are common in countries of lighter atmosphere
and more sudden frosts. In the meadows,
where trees sometimes stand out bare and alone,
the fallen leaves, partially buried in the grass,
turn it, or seem to turn it, yellow, or brown, or
red and at times a dark, inky hue, as in the
case of the copper-leafed beech. The pathways
are covered with rustling leaves and in glens
and groves and along the banks of the brooks,
where one, in other regions, often times sees so
much that is brilliant and striking and lovely,
the same dreary brown hue only increases the
prevailing monotony.
	We are not entirely bereft of flowers. The
modest daisy still timidly lifts its unassuming
head and offers a singularly vigorous resistance
to the encroachments of King Frost; an
occasional dandelion puts in a half starved
appearance; a few clover blossoms even yet are
warmed by the sunshine when it strikes some
sequestered spot. Half buried in the grass
and always wet with dew, even on the warmest
days, one may still detect a small, sweet yellow
flower, rising from a creeping vine of singular
beauty, but of a name unknown to me. The
hawberries do add life and would do more so
were it not for the absence of that green which
is the charm of the holly. The pink tips of
willow bushes and of "sallies" also produce a
cheerful effect seen at a distance while follow-
ing the windings of some uncomplaining
"burn;" and the golden yellow of the sand
lends a richness to the surroundings and begets
a sense of mantling beauty such as suggests
brighter scenes and adds a lustre to the mental
picture that is felt after the original has been
left behind. The cuckoo left long since; the
corn crake is a thing of the past; the robin still
lingers; but the swallow has departed and that
tiny biped, the wren, is no longer a habitue of
the umbrageous ash. The crow and the jack-
daw now maintain an undisputed reign.
	On a bright, frosty day, there seem to be in-
dications of more vivid colors; but on the return
of dull, drowsy weather (in which the atmos-
phere is charged with moisture, not heavy
enough to fall, but so dense that the smoke
sinks lazily to the ground and hides itself
away amid the fast bleaching grass), the signs
of brightness fade and the dead tints and
monotonous hues return also. I have seen an
autumn afternoon so like an Indian summer
that one could scarce tell the difference. Light,
dreamy clouds floated away through the hea-
vens, softening the bright rays of the sun
which would, however, burst through at times
in floods of golden light, while warm tints
flitted hither and thither through the azure
space or faded slowly away as if wishing still


[Column 1]
to linger in sight of the fair world resting so
calmly beneath. A blue mist, like an ethereal
vail, hung over the earth, and clothed the
hills in a sleepy haze that soothed the weary
spirit and seemed to share the longings and
shed a balm o'er the sorrows of the heart. The
smoke, ascending languidly into the azure
depths above, floated away over the city, while
over all brooded that calm and dreamy air
which one feels on rare Sabbath evenings in
midsummer. In the fields the kine nibbled
lazily at the grass or dozed in the sunlight; the
noisy crow and jackdaw were silent; the haw-
thorne hedge harbored no twittering bird and
the dry leaves that filled the way-side hollow,
were undisturbed by the faintest zephyr. Out
from among the half-bared trees peered the
white-walled cots of the farmer, seeming to be
whiter than ever seen through the blue mist
that hovered round; the mills, with their never
ending and interminable noise appeared de-
serted by the multitude that flock to and from
them morn and eve, enjoyed the stillness of
the tomb; in the city seemed the silence of
death; while the spires of the innumerable
churches lifted their gilded fronts away into
the hazy atmosphere, far above the surround-
ing trees, and seemed, as they solemnly pointed
their fingers heavenward, to pierce the bosom
of the blue vault; the ocean, too, had at last
succumbed to the spirit of rest, for it stretched
placidly away into that distance where the blue
film and pulseless wave melted into each other
and were lost.

"The day becomes more solemn and serene
When noon is past; there is a harmony
In autumn, and a lustre in its sky
Which, through the summer, is not heard or seen,
As it could not be, as if it had not been."

	As the days creep on, the trees and hedges
become bare; the fields lose their verdant hue, 
and though snow has not yet fallen, neverthe-
less summer and autumn are clearly past and
we sadly wait the coming of winter's shroud
that the picture of desolation may be complete.
Each day brings its changes—every tree has
its peculiarities of coloring scarcely less naked
than the tints of the different leaves; and yet
there is a dreary sense of monotony which one
finds difficulty in resisting. There is infinitely
greater sameness of color in spring, but it is
never so oppressive—spring is welcome as the
forerunner of summer flowers and of autumnal
tints no less than for its own freshness and
wealth of green; while for autumn, when upon
us, it never creates that elasticity of spirit we
experience in spring, because every denuded
bough, every dull day, the wailing of the wind
through leafless trees, the brown fields, and
even the brilliantly burned leaf, tell of the
burial of nature and of winter which is doubly
drear to the poor, the hungry, the half-clad
and to the wanderer, even though the comforts
of life may be his in abundance.
	If it is possible to tell a story too often, then
it would seem that the tale of autumn has too
often been told. And yet, there is a freshness
about it just as there is newness in the regular-
ly recurring seasons. Who does not know
what soft skies, purple hills so near and yet
seemingly afar off, betoken! Who, when he
hears the rustle of a dry leaf, as it falls from
above his head and is hurried along by the
playful wind, or listens to the sober cawing of
the crow, or catches the first glimpse of brown
in the shorn meadow, or sees the russet tint
timidly peeping out from among the green and
heavy foliage, that does not feel a subdued
sadness come over his spirits, however buoyant
they may be, however radiantly his sun of life
may be shining? There is a tender depression
in all these, and the "gentle melancholy" they
awaken is among the best moods to which
mankind is subject, for it turns our thoughts
back upon our own past and enables us to see
the good and bad hidden away in the recesses

[Column 2]
of our hearts. All things tend to one common
end, and the suggestions of winter which one
detects when contemplating the falling of a
brown leaf, point to the death of the flowers,
and tell us, though even yet afar off, that
winter with its drear prospects of field and
farm (and yet its cheerful hearths), with its
cold, hunger, and death (and still its light
hearts and joyous carols) is coming with sure
and inevitable tread. The recurrence of the
seasons to those who have the wisdom to learn,
is not without profit; the return of each is a 
silent monitor which Infinite Goodness has set
before the children of men to point a moral
and so adorn the story of our lives as may fit
us for the coming of that hour when we, too,
shall fade as flowers—pass away unnoticed as
a dry leaf in boundless forests—from among
the habitations of the human race, and be
hidden from memory's sight by the snows and
frosts of time. 

"Leaves have their time to fall
And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
And stars to set, but all,—
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
We know when morns shall wane,
When summer birds from far shall cross the sea,
When autumn hues shall tinge the golden grain,
But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"
					WANDERING BOY.	
Belfast, Nov. 27th, 1885.


