VALE, 1885. 
In silence, and alone, I watching, wait;
Something I have known is in departing,
I listen for the iron tongue of Time
To start the revealing requiem!—hush!
The clock, my timely monitor, strikes twelve;
'Tis the noon of night—the year is gone—
Eighteen eighty-five is in eternity!
Pass on old year—my hand I kiss to thee,
And no regret is lurking in my heart!
Thou wert a link in life's all mystic chain,
And in thy transit scattered joy and grief
And health and sickness, wealth and poverty,
With all the chequered scenes of earthly life,
To many, thou hast proved a jewel'd link,
To others, sorrow and bereavement sad.
Silence is the only voice whose whisperings
Opening the reservoir of memory,
Unfolds volumes to my spirit ear—
Thou hast performed thy mission unto all,
And now art gone to render thy report.

This link—this infant of eternity
Comes to all mortals laden with events,
And in its record will reveal a tale
Of battles won, of glory o'er defeat.

Life is a mighty boon!  little know we
Its power to bestow or take away,
But all must know that in its transit
Is a school thro' whose exact gradations
Al, the human family must pass!
Blest are those students who enter wisely
And steadily, to learn the lessons taught.
To cultivate those organs, heart and brain,
Organs that germinate immortality!
Developing the divinity within,
That spark that revivifies the dead!

Old year, I do not lightly bow thee out—
My heart is full of gratitude and love,
The hand of God is ever broodingly
Above the righteous—the veil is thin
That hides its presence from the mortal eye;
But the rapt soul in holy adience
Feels the incense of His presence tangibly!

The past is past! and I have no regrets,
For if I stumbled, I a lesson learned,
To walk more wisely and more cautiously;
If sickness, or privation, then I learned
How grand is health—and nearer God I drew.

When all seems bankrupt on the earth to us,
Then cries out our soul, "Nearer, my God, to Thee;"
So to the righteous all is well—pass on [unreadable]
Old year—welcome the child of eighty-five [unreadable]
The new-born Heir, entitled, eighty-six [unreadable]
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, 1885-1886.


[Column 1]

