WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	We trust that a large proportion of the
readers of this magazine are ladies, and that
many of them are but just starting upon life's
tempestuous voyage; and, in these days, when
so much is being said about "woman's rights"
and "woman's sphere," many a young woman
is led to believe that because she cannot vote
or hold an important office in the government,
she has no influence in the world, and no res-
ponsibility farther than she is concerned her-
self. Now we believe this to be an error, and
will endeavor to convince our fair readers that
it is such.
	Waiving the question as to whether woman
would make a better legislator or juror than
man, and whether she would be more useful
as an advocate at the bar or a political stump-
orator, than she is as the mistress of a house-
hold and the mother of a family, let us see
in what directions her influence has been and
from the nature of her powers and capabilities
ever must be to mankind.
	There are those who claim that woman may
engage in any pursuit that man can, and suc-
ceed in it; that she may compete successfully
with him in any department of business, in-
dustry or learning.
	To a certain extent this is true, but let us
see how it has been in the past, and then we
may judge more clearly of the merits of the
question. We shall find, if we look back over
the history of our world's progress, that in
material progress man—not woman—has been
the mainspring.
	It was man who explored the trackless
ocean and traced the paths of commerce on his
mighty bosom. It was man who brought forth
from the bosom of mother earth the hidden
treasures of mineral wealth, and invented
ways and means to mold and fashion them into
a thousand forms of utility and beauty. It
was man who caught the lightning from the
clouds, and it was man who discovered a way
to send it pulsing through the wires, bearing
our messages with rapidity of thought.
	It was man who conceived and carried out
the grand ideas of national life and national
government. It was man who discovered and
utilized the giant power of steam, and man in-
vented the printing press, the spindle, the
loom and the sewing machine. It was a man
who discovered America, though Fanny Fern

[Column 2]

did say that he would not have been half s
long about it if she had been at his elbow.
We don't wish to express an opinion on that
point, but gladly admit that he might never
have found the means to carry out his grand
idea, had not good Queen Isabella of Spain
sold her jewels to obtain the necessary funds.
	But let us not for a moment think that be-
cause man has done so much for material pro-
gress, and woman has done comparatively so
little in that direction, that woman has no
great and controling influence upon the pro-
gress of civilization, for she has, indeed, a much
greater influence than most people are apt to
think or willing to acknowledge.
	Adam would probably have been content
to remain in ignorance, but Eve, with woman's
quick, keen perception, saw that the fruit of
the tree of knowledge was pleasant to the sight
and to be desired, and Adam was encouraged
to eat of that which otherwise he might never
have touched, because Eve offered it to him.
What man of the present generation would
not do the same under like circumstances? As
a matter of fact, there are thousands of Adams
to-day who smoke that vile weed tobacco, be-
cause some fair Eve has told them she admires
the smell of a good cigar.
	Many a modern Adam has taken his first
glass of wine because it was proffered by the
beautiful jeweled hand of a modern Eve, and
many a modern Adam has reformed his habits
and morals because some fair and lovely Eve,
who is more to him than all the world beside,
has told him that he must do it, or he can
never occupy the same garden of Eden with her.
	Napoleon said, "Give us good mothers, and
we shall have good men," and to this end he
established schools for the special education of
girls. Napoleon, with his keen perception and
intimate knowledge of human nature, knew
that it is almost always the mother who instils
correct principles into the mind of the son—if
he has any at all,—and it was because—in
that eventful period of history—the mothers of
France were patriots, that the beardless boys
flocked to the national standard and upheld it
against the shock of battle, defending it with
their lives until overwhelmed by the combined
armies of Europe.
	And so it has been in all ages of the world's
history. Had the Spartan mothers been the
opposite of what they were, there would have
been no Spartan heroes; and let us not forget
that it was because of the courage, fortitude
and self-sacrificing patriotism of American
mothers that we were enabled to crush out the
most gigantic rebellion on record.
	Let no woman think because she cannot vote,
become a member of Congress, preside over a
Court, sail a Ship, command an Army, or pre-
side over the affairs of a Railroad or a Manu-
facturing Corporation, that she has no influence
upon society, for such emphatically is not the
case. I know a very excellent lady who never
voted, so far as I know she never wanted to
vote, but she raised up four sons who can vote,
and she taught them those broad principles of
right and justice to all men everywhere, and
led them when they became of age to vote the
same ticket she would have voted, had it been
her privilege to vote.
	If any fair reader of this article regrets that
she cannot vote, let her reflect, that she has the
ear of at least one man who can. We are in-
clined to think but few women are aware of
the influence which women might wield, were
she disposed to labor more earnestly in that
field in which the Creator has placed her, in-
stead of reaching out to untried fields of labor
for which nature has not qualified her. We
believe a large majority of the women of the
present day are willing to work in that sphere
of usefulness which God has in His wisdom as-
signed to them, and, in conclusion, we will say
your mission is an high and honorable one; there-
fore "be not weary in well doing."—Selected.


