							BELLE WHITE.

	In memory of our dear friend and sister, Emmeline,
daughter of William and Rebecca Faulkner, who died at
Central, Arizona, August 22nd, 1885. She was born
March 2nd, 1872, and she died as she had lived, a true
Latter-day Saint. Her nature was such as made her highly
respected by all who knew her, and we may say in the
best sense of the word, that Sister Emmeline was a superior
young lady, possessing that innate refinement which gives
sublimity to women of character. Added to this were the
traits of gentleness and genuine kindness, which won for
her a great circle of friends. The Y. L. M. I. A., to
which she belonged, passed appropriate resolutions of re-
spect and condolence.					[COM.

	In memory of Ann Granger, wife of Ja[-]ez Woodward,
who died at Kanosh, Willard County, at a quarter to six
a.m., December 3rd, 1885. She was the daughter of
James and Ann Granger, and was born at Sydenham, Kent,
England, 1818. She suffered from a lingering illness of
dropsy and inflammation of the lungs for four months.
She has been a member of the Church thirty-five years.
After a long and tedious journey, suffering many priva-
tions and losing a little daughter with the cholera at Kansas
camping ground, they reached Salt Lake City in October,
from which place they went to Ogden. During their stay
there, herself and husband walked back to the city to re-
ceive their blessings in the house of the Lord. In the year
of the grasshopper famine they settled at West Jordan
while there her husband filled a four years mission to
Switzerland, pulling a handcart, on his return, across the
Plains. Shortly after his return the family were called to
go to Dixie to assist in opening up a new country. The
family resided there many years. While there, Bro.
Woodward went north to work on the railroad. He was
about to return home when he was taken suddenly ill, and
died at Morgan City. She then went to the Muddy, and
remained until the mission was broken up, then with her
two sons she moved to Kanosh, in which place she has re-
sided since until her death. In the year 1878 she was
chosen First Counselor in the Relief Society. She was a
true Latter-day Saint, esteemed and beloved by all. She
often spoke of a dream or vision she had over twenty years
ago, in which she saw the brethren and sisters tried, con-
victed and brought face to face with death for obeying and
practicing plural marriage. We feel to sympathize with
the family in their present bereavement, but trust they will
walk in the footsteps of their mother, and be prepared to
meet her when death calls them hence.
					ADENIA A. KIMBALL, Prest.
