NEW YEAR THOUGHTS.

	As we pass from out the portals of the old year
and pause upon the threshold of the new, hesitat-
ing with hand upon the door bell, reflecting on the
probable results of ringing for admittance into the
undiscovered future, what a throng of busy thoughts
sweep down upon the memory and imagination!
The faded pictures of the past, the unfinished
paintings of the present, the dim and dreamy out-
lines of the unattempted yet ever glorious limnings
of the future. All that has been done, all that is
now doing, all that remains "to do or dare." Har-
vests already reaped, grain that is still growing,
latent germs that lie sleeping under the surface of
our lives, seeds of coming events which our busy

[Column 2]

hands are about to strew upon the fertile bosom of
the future.
	All these in swift procession pass before us,
rising like stars upon the mental firmament, giving
light unto the darkness, guiding the way-worn
raveler of Time toward the goal of his earthly
pilgrimage, or spreading like mists along a lower-
ing sky to remind him of perils that are past
bringing again to memory the phantoms of bygone
errors and their consequences.
	The beginning of a new year. The turning over
of another leaf in the great book of human des-
tiny. Is it not truly a time for thought—a season
for solemn meditation? The past is as a page that
is written, blotted and blurred it may be in places
—for no imperfect human hand ever held the pen
of fate with steady poise—but written, neverthe-
less, written and irrevocable. The present—it is
nothing; it is only the hinge of another leaf, the
pivot upon which the future becomes the past, the
altar on which the fires of hope are converted into
the ashes of memory. The future alone is avail-
able. Pure and spotless as a field of untrodden
snow, it is the blank leaf of life upon which may be
written whatsoever we will.
	Is New Year's not a time then for sober reflec-
tion? May not the future repeat the past? Will
not similar causes at all times have similar effects?
Will not every seed sown produce after its kind?
Will not each word and deed which we consign,
ofttimes so carelessly, to the fruitful and unfailing
womb of futurity, come forth to meet us at the
judgment seat of eternal reward and retribution?
Will not the same hand which scatters the seed,
hereafter hold the sickle, and the upright form now
striding over the furrows of its fate, ere long be
bending beneath the burden of the harvest home?
	Such are questions we all may ask, subjects
upon which we well may ponder. From the lofti-
est to the lowest estate, men and women are but
stewards for time; they must answer to the Great
Judge for the "deeds done in the body," and ren-
der to their Lord at His coming an account of the
talents with which they are entrusted. All are
accountable beings, from the king upon his throne
to the pauper in the street; from the ermined judge
to the prisoner at the [---] free but responsible
agents of the same Mighty Master, who endows
men according to their merits or His own will, and
sends them into the world to cope with evil and
overcome it with good. Here is one placed in
position and invested with authority, an elected or
hereditary ruler of the masses; there, one who has
accumulated millions, standing like a golden god
upon the summit of a shrine erected to the honor
and glory of Mammon. Independent, each may
suppose, and truly so as to wealth and volition, but
nevertheless accountable for his every act, of
tyranny and injustice, folly or crime, and for every
dollar of his wealth,stolen or honestly earned,wasted
or carefully spent, centralized upon self, consumed
upon his lusts, or utilized to benefit and bless
humanity. Another has power of intellect, the
fiery eloquence of the poet or the orator, the pene-
trating research of the scientist and the philoso-
pher, the legislative or military mind of the states-
man and the soldier. Each,in all his greatness, is but
a factor in God's universal plan, amenable for the
way in which his genius is displayed and the effect
of his influence and works upon the lives and lib-
erties of those around him.
	And what is true of individuals, is true also of
societies and nations. The parable of the talents
has not only a personal, but also a social and polit-
ical application. Our own nation, the most highly
favored on earth, incomparable in almost all that
constitutes earthly greatness, is likewise unrivalled
in responsibility before Him who holds in His
right hand the destinies of nations, and who set-
teth up one or putteth down another according to
the judgment of His will. An awful weight rests
upon the shoulders of men in high places. And
what will be the answer of some, aye of many,

[Column 3]

who, instead of using their all but omnipoten
powers to protect the weak, succor the needy,
abase the proud and exalt the lowly, prostitute
both power and authority to rob the poor and
trample on the defenceless.
	And, Latter-day Saints, what of ourselves; we
who profess more, possess more and hope for more
than any other people on earth? Are we not of all
men and women most accountable, and will we be
held guiltless if we neglect, pervert or unwisely
use the priceless privileges and blessings entrusted
to our care? Is the Priesthood a bauble, the Gos-
pel a dream, or are they what we solemnly declare—
the power of God unto salvation, the only keys
that will unlock the eternal gates of glory? Real-
izing this, what manner of men and women ought
we to be?
	At the beginning of another year, let these
things be remembered. Let there be no backing
down, no relinquishment of right, no surrender
of sacred principle. God will justify those who
suffer for His sake the pains and penalties of in-
justice. He will rejudge the "justice" of the
tyrant, and hypocrites and traitors shall tremble
before Him. They who confess Him before men
shall never be ashamed or confounded, and them
will He own before the angels in heaven. Blessed
are they that endure unto the end. Blessed are
they who are faithful over a few things, for they
shall be rulers over many things hereafter. Happy
are they who keep their second estate, for they
shall be added upon eternally. Happy are they,
thrice happy, who seek first the Kingdom and its
righteousness, for all things are theirs, and they
are Christ's and Christ is God's, forever and ever.
