GRANTSVILLE.
	On Friday, Dec. 11th, in the face of a fierce,
driving storm, and bitter cold weather, Sisters
Presendia Kimball and Jane S. Richards left
Salt Lake City to attend conference in Grants-
ville.
	Saturday morning, under the direction of
Prest. M. A. Hunter, the conference opened.
Choice instructions were given by both the
sisters. In the afternoon the children's
Primary Conference was held. It was a most
interesting time, and a great deal of good ad-
vice and instruction was given by the sisters.
In the evening the Young Ladies held confer-
ence, advice being given as to how to live
temporally and spiritually in order to become
healthy, pure, noble women, as well as good
housekeepers. Instructions as to economy.
virtue and wisdom and the careful choice of a
companion were given, and Prest. Gowans, in
conclusion, fully endorsed all that had been
said, urging upon parents to live so that their
children can safely walk in their footsteps.
	Sunday afternoon Sister Kimball spoke up-
on the position we enjoy and the need of our
living up to our privileges, and remembering
our dead, giving much information, and plead-
ing with those who can to go and commence
the work for their dead, so that our children
can carry on the work. She gave valuable
suggestions to the young, how to progress in
all good, to be true to their trust, and be pre-
pared for everything that awaits us.
	Sister Richards showed the need of continual
dependence upon our Father, that He may di-
rect us aright; advised mothers to attend
Primary and understand what is being done
for our children. "Rather have the testimony
of Jesus in their hearts, than leave them a
fortune. We should be willing to endure
hard times, for we can feel ten times happier,
a thousand times better than if we did not
try."
	Prest. Gowans felt pleasure in listening to
the counsel we had heard, and advised all to
seek first the kingdom of heaven. "There is a
volume in this, for we are of the earth earthy.
If we attend to our duties in this kingdom first,
we shall find all things turn out right. The
work for our dead should be first in our hearts,

[Column 2]

and all the time remember that the responsi-
bility of our own salvation would rest with
ourselves."

