HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Discolored Marble.—Take two parts of sodium
carbonate, one of pumice-stone, and one of finely-
powdered chalk; mix into a fine paste with water. Rub
this on the marble, and the stains will be removed; then
wash with soap and water.
	A pair of boots or shoes thoroughly soaked are not easy
to dry without being left in an uncomfortably stiff, if not
shrunken condition. A very simple device will make the
drying process comparatively safe. The wet shoes should
be thoroughly stuffed with paper, which serves not only to
keep them in shape, but hastens their drying by absorbing
the moisture.
	To Make Yeast Cakes.—Boil together half a dozen
potatoes and a handful of hops tied in a cloth. When the
potatoes are done remove from the fire, mash them fine,
put them in the hot liquor, set over the fire, and thicken
them with three or four tablespoonfuls of flour. Let them
cool till lukewarm. then add a cupful of good yeast and
set in a warm place. When light stir in corn meal till a
thick dough is formed. Place this in a lump on the paste
board and slice off cakes with a knife, dry in the shade,
turning often while drying. Pack away in a close vessel
where the air will not reach them.
	To Cleanse Woodwork.—Save the tea leaves for a few
days, then steep them in a tin pail or pan for half an hour,
strain through a sieve and use the tea to wash all varnished
paint. It requires very little "elbow polish," as the tea
acts as a strong detergent, cleansing the paint from all im-
purities, and making the varnish equal to new. It cleans
window sashes and oil cloths; indeed, any varnished sur-
face is improved by its application. It washes window
panes and mirrors much better than water, and is excellent
for cleaning black walnut picture and looking-glass frames.
It will not do to wash unvarnished paint with it. Whiting
is unequalled for cleaning white paint. Take a small
quantity on a damp flannel, rub lightly over the surface,
and you will be surprised at its effects.
	Boiling Potatoes.—To boil a potato well requires more
attention than is usually given. They should be well
washed and left standing in cold water an hour or two, to
remove the black liquor with which they are impregnated,
and a brackish taste they would otherwise have. They
should not be pared before boiling; they lose much of the
starch by so doing, and are made insipid. Put them into a
kettle of clear cold water, with a little salt, cover closely,
and boil rapidly, using no more water than will just cover
them, as they produce a considerable quantity of fluid
themselves while boiling, and too much water will make
them heavy. As soon as just done instantly pour off the
water, set them back on the range, and leave the cover off
the saucepan till the steam has evaporated. They will
then, if a good kind, be dry and mealy. This is an Irish
receipt, and a good one.


