BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	My mother's and Sarah's babies which were
so peculiarly operated upon by the destroyer
continued sick from that time, and it seemed
as if death was determined to claim one or both.
Sarah Ann's appeared the worst some of the
time, and then it would be my mother's, and
the witnessing the young mother's grief, who
plainly saw her infant failing day by day, so
touched my mother's tender heart that she
made up her mind to make an offering of her
own little darling inasmuch as the Lord re-
quired one of them, praying as she made the
sacrifice, that He in His tender mercy, if it
would be acceptable in His sight might take
hers and spare Sarah's. Did this not mark
her as one of the elect of God, who fought
manfully against the flesh, the world and the
devil?
	In those scenes we were supplied with that
spiritual armor necessary to sustain the com-
bat with the inveterate and subtle foe, whose
power and devices were being made manifest
in our midst. From the moment that my

[Column 2]

mother made this offering her babe began to
improve, and only a few days before another
pure spirit had taken its flight from this sor-
rowing vale of tears, and another doting heart
was almost broken as she followed its little
body to that lonely spot on the hill-side which
had been dedicated as a burying place for the
dead. There weary pilgrims could rest for a
season, and the dear little innocents, whose
spirits ascended up to the Father, bearing re-
cord of the inhumanity and wrong which had
been met with in this world by those who ren-
dered obedience to the truths revealed by the
blessed redeemer for the salvation of the hu-
man family, and had been driven from their
homes in the bleak month of February 1846
to suffer in the wilderness in so cruel and heart-
less a manner. The sweet comforter was still
with us, and from that date the destroyer was
staid in our house.
	Among the marvelous instances of faith
which I witnessed, was in the family of Bro.
Lyman Whitney, a brother of the Bishop.
Lyman was then at work in the state of Mis-
souri. One of his babes—its mother being his
second wife—was lyiug sick unto death. She
told us that it had not swallowed any thing
for two days, and its eyes were dried up so that
it had not been able to close them for some
time. My mother, Mother Whitney, Sarah
Ann, Sister Presendia, myself and one or two
more, were called to go and administer to the
sick babe. Sister Presendia first moistened its
eyes with milk and water, then it was washed
and anointed, and as many as could, laid hands
upon it, and all of us unitedly raised our hearts
to God in its behalf, Presendia being mouth.
We had no sooner said amen, than it opened
its eyes and began to wink and look around,
and soon after it took nourishment. The
mother and her sister who were living together,
were both charged to watch it closely and not
leave it alone for a moment, or the destroyer
would grasp it. They watched it faithfully
through the rest of the day and during that
night, but as it appeared so much better in the
morning, they, not realizing how the destroyer
was lying in wait for it, left it sleeping in its
cradle long enough to go into an adjoining
room to breakfast. When the mother returned
she found it struggling in the arms of death.
Then she fully realized the meaning of the
words of warning which had been spoken by
the spirit and power of the Holy Ghost.
	I remember instances wherein the evil one
entered persons that were not sufficiently posted
—not having had enough experience to be able
to distinguish the difference between the opera-
tions of the two spirits—good and evil. There
are those living—sister E. B. Wells being one
of the number—who will readily testify to
these statements. The following I heard from
Sisters Presendia, Laura Christine, Sarah
Lawrence Kimball and others. The circum-
stance transpired one evening at the house of
Sister Miller, whose name is now Finch, where
a meeting was being held. A few sisters who
came had not been present at any of the pre-
vious meetings; and two or three of them it
was said, had made light of them, and the gift
of tongues, etc, which the sisters testified they
had frequently enjoyed with a great outpouring
of the Holy Spirit. Satan, it seems, came also,
and they aver that his face and shoulders were
plainly visible through the window. They not
only saw him, but heard his awful footsteps as
he walked around the outside of the house, after
which there were individuals attacked, and the
power was so terrible, that it was only by
mighty faith and the power of the priesthood
that the destroyer was rebuked from their
midst. At his first appearance, some who had
never before witnessed a conflict with the evil
spirits, as may naturally be supposed, were
frightened nearly out of their wits, at the sight
of his highness, and they took a sudden un-

[Column 3]

ceremonious leave while the strong and valiant
held the ground, till the victory was gained,
and the evil one cast out. From this circum-
stance went forth a false rumor concerning the
meetings of the sisters, started by those who,
not having mingled before with them, pro-
nounced it all from the devil.
	At an evening meeting held at my mother's,
one of the sisters, who had met with us
but little, feeling the spirit resting upon her to
speak in tongues, arose and began talking—at
first very quietly. In a moment her voice
changed, as did also her countinance, and her
movements were such that there was no mis-
taking the spirit which was operating upon
her. Two or three who were present had the
gift of interpretation, and they said with one
accord that she uttered nothing but the most
wicked blasphemy. But this lasted only an
instant as sister Laura Pitkin, who came into
the church at the beginning, arose and took
hold of her arm, and in a quiet but command-
ing tone bade her sit down. She dropped into
her chair as suddenly as though she had re-
ceived a blow, and covering her face with her
hands groaned aloud, as though realizing what
she had done. No one spoke or moved, and in
a moment after she arose and left the room.
From that she felt so humiliated, and crushed
in spirit, that she could not be induced to again
rise to speak in a meeting.
	Many were the manifestations that were had
from above and beneath, which were similar to
what the Prophet had witnessed, but which
previous to that time, I had taken but little
notice of. Joseph said that the devil could
talk in any tongue and that he could appear
like a gentleman, or in any form he pleased.
Also that no one would ever enter into the
celestial kingdom without having to meet and
combat with that power, either in the flesh or
after they had passed out of it, and that his
forces would be strengthened and increased
just in proportion to the progress that was be-
ing made by his opponents. This is easily
enough understood by Latter-day Saints, or
by any one who has undertaken a reformation
or to accomplish a victory in the right direc-
tion.
	The slight experience that I gained at that
early period gave me a little insight, though
in a very small degree, into the workings of
the two powers. Afterwards when I was out
from under that spiritual or heavenly influence,
I made this expression, that I wanted no more
light or spiritual manifestations, for fear I
should have to meet the prince of darkness.
But I had to meet him, a year or so from that
date, and I went through a schooling that
brought conviction, and impressed indelibly
upon my heart the truth of this work, and that
Satan, with all his power and cunning, was a
deceiver; also that our thoughts were unknown
to him only as we uttered them, and therefore
we had the advantage over him, when wise
enough to keep silent, and we could pray to
the Father in our hearts, who was all power-
ful, and able to read the thoughts and desires
of His children.
	The experience had at Winter Quarters
taught me that it was only through obedience
and great humiliation, more especially through
fasting and prayer, that we could obtain any
great manifestations from on high, or the power
to enable us to overcome the adversary.
	Could we as a people, lay aside the world,
and bring our own evil natures into subjection
to that spirit, which would make us of one
heart and one mind, and valiant to do all that
is required of the Saints of God, I know that
we would not be long as we are now, bending
under the yoke of oppression, but would soon
become that people whom we have been told
from the beginning, should be honored, not
only by the noble, but by the Great Lawgiver
of the whole earth.


