BY A WIFE IN EXILE.

	Before reading Aunt Ruth's question, "Is
there anything women can do in the present
emergency?" I penned the following ideas,
which I will now give as an answer—if only to
prove the unity of thought that exists among
the Latter-day Saints on the present situation
of affairs, afflicting us as a people, particularly
that class who have entered into celestial
marriage.
	Women of Israel, a crisis has come in our
lives! With a knowledge that God had re-
vealed the law of celestial marriage, which
knowledge brought to us the solemn convic-
tion that it was our duty to obey it or lose an
exaltation in His presence, it became with us a 
matter of conscience, a religious duty, associa-
ted with all our hopes of eternal happiness,
and with the assurance that we would be
honored of God, even as holy women of old
are revered by all Christian nations as the
purest and most exemplary—many of us took
upon ourselves the sacred obligations of plural
wives, with the full understanding that we
could henceforth bear the proud distinction of
honorable wives—not concubines, not bond-
women, not women of any inferior position in
the marriage covenant, for the same ceremony 
that binds the first wife binds also the plural,
and each is under exactly the same obligations.
The children of each in the sight of God and
angels who bear witness of the marriage tie,
are honorable. They are the fruit of lawful
wedlock, not bastards, not underlings, and
need no special act of legislation to make them

[Column 2]

legitimate. They are in every way the equals
of those whose parents had not the faith and
courage and quality of self-sacrifice in their
nature to accept the new and everlasting coven-
ant.
	Chief Justice Zane may openly and mali-
ciously insult the thousands of noble and pure
women and innocent children in this community
whose stations I have thus defined, but that
does not alter facts. We can afford to wait
patiently and bear the reproaches and scorn of
the wicked. It was once a reproach to ac-
knowledge our humble Lord and Savior—
when He was scourged and spit upon and
called vile names and even crucified; but He
said, "Revile not when ye are reviled." We
know that God, for whose cause we are "cast
out as evil," has promised to avenge our
wrongs. Patient waiting brings its own re-
ward, but in the meantime we will not sit
idly down and allow might to triumph over
right without an earnest protest and a brave
struggle.
	We will fearlessly assert our rights as de-
fenders of that glorious document which
guarantees to all the right of conscience and
the free exercise thereof, with "life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness," and we will main-
tain our true positions by virtue of conscience
and birth.
	This nation may cry "unclean, unclean,"
but until its statistics show a better state of
morality under monogamic sway we will
answer back, "First cast the beam out of
thine own eye." Let those who are without
guilt cast the first stone. While the agonized
wail from thousands and thousands of God's 
fair daughters, degraded and debauched by
man's consuming lust, reaches up to heaven
from the soil of America, is not the nation's 
boasted gallantry, aye humanity, to woman a
burning sarcasm, a stink in the nostrils of
Jehovah? Congress may pass laws to impri-
son the virtuous brotherhood of the Latter-
day Saints who look upon woman as God's
most sacred trust, prizing and preserving her
virtue above all else on earth. It may rob us
of the care, protection, and companionship of
those dearer to us than life—compelling us
under penalty of fine and imprisonment to
give evidence that would make us worse than
widows, and our children worse than orphans, 
and then, in our helpless sorrow, justify men
of judicial power, in insulting us in the most
cowardly manner. But, as did that of the
Jewish nation, who put to death their Lord
and persecuted even unto death those who
believed in Him, their sin will find them out—
God will not always be mocked—He has again
spoken from the heaven and as He revealed to
John anciently, He has sent an angel flying
through the midst of heaven having the ever-
lasting Gospel, who cried, "Fear God and give
glory to Him for the hour of His judgment
has come." Then shall we fear man who can
at most only destroy the frail body in which
is s wn the seeds of death and which must
sooner or later moulder in the dust? Or shall
we fear Him in whom dwells all power—in
whose hands are eternal life and joy which He
has promised unto those who will sacrifice
every earthly consideration to obey His com-
mands faithfully unto the end?
	The time has come when our husbands must
entirely, both in theory and practice, take
from our heads the glorious crown of wife-
hood, put us away, disown us, or be humiliated
to a prison cell, wear the prison garb (recently
enforced it would seem in the Utah Penitentiary
for the especial humiliation of the Edmunds
law victims) and be placed on equal footing
with men guilty of the deepest dyed crimes.
	Now the question with us is, shall we agree
to these measures, shall we assist in any way
or even urge our husbands in working out
their eternal condemnation by breaking the
covenants mutually made in sacred places—

[Column 3]

buying their liberty at the price of honor and
thus robbing ourselves of the cherished dis-
tinction of wives? Or shall we say to them,
stand firm for conscience sake, yield not to the
unlawful, unreasonable requirements of bigoted
tyrannical law-makers who seek to bind man's
heaven born right of conscience in all matters
between himself and his Creator! Accept
rather a prison or exile, as some of us women
have proven that we can do willingly rather
than betray you. Do this and carry with you
our profoundest respect, our purest love, and the
power of a sincere and devoted woman's faith.
We will supplicate for you at the throne of grace
for strength to endure each trial, however
bitter, for the Gospel's sake. We will also
teach the little ones born of our holy union to
revere your name and prize your example as
a priceless legacy. But if you choose to
degrade us and our children and humiliate us
before the triumphal rejoicing of the wicked,
who would glory in our sorrow, we will say,
let the sin rest with you; you alone shall bear
the responsibility and God shall judge between
us, and if you renounce your faith in the
principle that bound us to you and made our
lives acceptable in the sight of God, and
agree to live within the law according to the
interpretation of the court, we can be nothing
to you if not a wife according to the law of
God. Your renunciation of that law severs
every tie. Even if your choice would be to
graciously (?) exalt a woman to the appar-
ent position of a wife without any semblance
of legal recognition, you cannot claim her as
such according to the law of the land which
forbids a second marriage while there is a 
living and undivorced wife. The woman who
accepts this position is not a wife before God
or man, and she as well as the man will fare
poorly in heaven and on earth also, unless
Judge Zane lives to favor them with some of
his marvelous rulings such as created the status
which they will occupy.
	City of Refuge, December 26th, 1885.


