[Vol17 | March 1930 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Quest Bertha A. Kleinman]
The  happiness  for  which  your  life  is  quest 
Is  neither  here,  nor  there,  nor  east,  nor  west; 
You  cannot  find  it  all  the  world  around, 
For  happiness  is  never  to  be  found; 
Who  finds  himself  and  his  capacity 
Beneath  the  false  conventionality 
Of  self  to  self — to  him  it  shall  befall — 
The  reach,  the  flight,  the  substance  of  it  all. 
Who  finds  his  place  amid  the  surge  and  press, 
That  other  lives  their  fullness  shall  express, 
Has  found  it  all,  the  entity,  the  best — 
Lol  happiness  has  then  encrowned  his  quest. 
^^

Ninety-Four  Years  Young 
By  J.  A.  Washburn 
With  eyes  slightly  dimmed  but  a  at  the  grove  though  it  seemed  to  be 
memory  grown  brighter  with  years,  pouring  down  all  around.     I  knew 
Aunt  Mary  greeted  her  visitor  with  then,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true 
her   characteristic   smile.      Though  prophet." 
ninety-four  years  have  passed  over  She  laughed  as  she  told  this  little 
her  head,  her  slight  figure  is  straight  story  which  was  current  in  Nauvoo. 
and  her  step  light.    Dates  and  hap^  "It  was  a  time  when  the  Prophet 
penings   of   the   distant   past   were  was  in  hiding  from  his  enemies,  and 
recalled  as  vividly  as  those  of  yester-  the  officers   were  in  town  looking 
day.  for   him.     They   saw   a   little  boy 
UI  wait  upon  myself,"  she  said  as  flying  a  kite  and  asked  him  if  he 
she  busied  herself  about  her  clean,  knew  where  Joseph  Smith  was.  The 
snug  little  cottage  at  the  corner  of  lad  replied,  'He  went  to  heaven  this 
town.  But  she  does  more,  for  she  morning  on  Uncle  Hyrum's  gray 
always  has  time  to  take  part  in  the  mare,  and  I  am  sending  up  his  din- 
joys  and  sorrows  of  both  the  young  ner  on  this  kite'." 
and  the  old.  Dispensing  cheer  and  "I  remember  the  time,"  she  con- 
encouragement  is  as  natural  to  her  tinued,  "when  father  returned  from 
as  for  the  sun  to  radiate  light.  the  meeting  where  Brigham  Young 
Mary    Shumway    Westover    was  was    transfigured.      Mother   and    I 
born  in  Massachusetts,  October  27,  did  not  go  to  meeting  that  day  but 
1835.      At   the   age    of    seven    she  father  told  us  all  about  it.     That 
moved  with  her  parents  to  Nauvoo,  is  not  just  an  idle  story.     It  really 
Illinois,  where  she  passed  through  happened,  for  my  father  saw  it  and 
the  trying  experiences   incident  to  told  us  at  the  time, 
the  Mormon  persecutions  of  those  "I  attended  one  dedicational  serv- 
days.     Though  but  a  slip  of  a  girl,  ice  at  the  Nauvoo  temple,  but  I  do 
those  trying  scenes  are  stamped  upon  not   remember   which   room.     The 
her  memory  with  a  clearness  that  thing   I    remember   best   about   the 
time  cannot  erase.  temple  is  the  twelve  large  oxen  on 
To  the  question,  "Do  you  remem-  which  the  font  rested, 
ber  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  she  "Our   wagons   were  the   first  to 
answered?     "I  remember  him  well,  cross  the  river  at  the  time  of  the 
I  loved  to  be  in  his  presence  and  exodus.     They  were  ferried  across 
hear  him  speak.    Once  I  heard  him  on  a   flat   boat   February  2,    1846. 
preach   at   the    funeral    of   a    man  There  had   been  a  thaw,   and   the 
(King  Follett)  who  had  been  killed  boat  was  kept  busy  until  the  river 
while  working  on  the  temple.    The  froze  over  again  and  the  wagons 
funeral  was  held  in  a  grove  and  the  could  cross  on  the  ice.    I  remember 
rain  began  coming  down  in  torrents,  that  in  the  middle  of  the  stream  we 
As  the  people  began  moving  away  to  had  to  stop  to  let  a  great  block  of 
find  shelter,  the  Prophet  promised  ice    pass.      After   we    had    crossed 
that  if  they  would  remain  quiet  and  there  was   some   rain   and   a  little 
pray  in  their  hearts,  the  storm  would  snow." 
cease.    Then  I  saw  through  a  break  The  company  in  which  she  trav- 
in  the  trees  that  the  clouds  were  eled    continued    to    a    point    about 
dividing.     The  rain  stopped  falling  100  miles  west  of  Winter  Quarters