Presidency and General Board of Relief Society great pleasure to welcome into the group of stakes the youngest, Zion Park. The new stake begins its career un-. 148 der very happy auspices, we feel, and we are delighted to welcome to our group of stake presidents, Sister Josephine Sandberg, president; Sister Augusta Wood, first counselor; Sister Mary A. Gubler, second counselor; Sister Mary W. Hall, secretary-treasurer. We congratulate the new stake on its choice of these sisters, and we are very sure that the Relief Society of the Zion Park stake is in very capable hands. Our best wishes are with it, and we are at the service of this stake, as of all others, for anything that we are able to do. Nevada Stake: The office is in receipt of a report of the reorganization of the Nevada stake Relief Society. President Mary E. Horlacher has been released at her own request. Mrs. Louisa C. Johnson has been named as president, with Mrs. Mathilda Swallow and Mrs. Ethel Matheson as her counselors. Sister Horlacher and her associates have been most diligent in their service in Relief Society work, and we feel that they retire from office with the blessing of the entire community.
Tooele Stake: One of the most recent reorganizations which has been reported is that of the Tooele stake. On January 12, 1930, at the regular quarterly conference, Sister Maggie W. Anderson, who has served the Relief Society long and well in the capacity of stake president, was released, and Sister Lillian H. Anderson was sustained as president, with Sister Charlotte Fawson and Sister Mary E. Halladay as her two counselors. We have always felt to congratulate these stakes on their able leadership, and we know that a wise choice has been made to succeed
148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the sisters who have served long and ably in the work, and we congratulate the stakes on their present leadership as on their past. The love and best wishes of the General Board go to the retiring and the present officers of bot