TO STAKE TEACHER TRAINING SUPERVISORS Dear Brethren and Sisters: The teacher-training work for the Church during 1922 will be a study of the "Principles of the Gospel." The material has been prepared in outline form and will be ready for distribution by the Deseret Book Store, December 27, 1921, price 35 cents, the name of the pamphlet being, "An Outline Study of the Principles of the Gospel." The Correlation-Social Advisory Committee, under whose direction the outline has been prepared, strongly recommends that every teacher in the Church obtain one of such outlines, and further that regular attendance at teacher-training classes in every ward in the Church be the practice of every individual who has been called to the most important duty and privilege 'of teaching the gospel. In connection with the class work to be carried on, the Committee recommends a slight change over last year's schedule of meetings. As you know, the practice has been as follows: First meeting, Regular normal class. Second meeting, Business meeting of the various organizations. 'Third meeting, Regular norma! Class. Fourth meeting, Department groups of the various organizations for the purpose of study and outlining lessons. The Committee recommends no change in the procedure of the first three meetings. With reference to the fourth meeting, however, it is recommended that the work formerly scheduled for that meeting be taken up at a regular monthly stake union meeting. In some stakes union meetings (sometimes called "Priesthood") are already being held, in connection with which the auxiliary organizations do their regular stake union work, and in some stakes each of the various organizations have separate stake meetings each month. It is contemplated under either of these conditions that no additional union meeting shall be provided, but that the work of preparing lessons be done at whatever stake meeting is being held. In stakes where no stake meeting has been provided for the doing of such work, it is recommended that such a meeting be instituted. A well conducted union meeting is most helpful to the organizations of the Church. It will be observed that under the plan outlined above only three ward meetings per month have been scheduled, the fourth meeting to be a stake meeting. However, where the stake meeting will not interfere, a fourth meeting, devoted to the course of study, may be held in the wards. Guide Lessons for January LESSON 1. Theology and Testimony (First Week in March.) MEMORABLE PRAYERS. Memorable prayers may be classified as prayers of complete record, prayers of partial record, and prayers referred to and not recorded, or prayers of reference. In this lesson we shall deal with simple petition, and not with ordinance prayers, and it will be limited to the consideration of prayers of complete record.: The prayer offered by the brother of Jared, about 2000 B. C., recorded in the Book of Mormon, Ether 3:1-4, is a wonderful prayer, and the first one of which we have complete record, and ranks as one of the memorable events in the history of a great people. The reading of it is strongly faith-promoting. Jacob's covenant prayer at Bethel, Genesis 28:18-22?a prayer of record with which our children should be made acquainted, in fact as a memory gem this prayer will be a lifelong inspiration toward the performance of a sacred financial duty. The prayer of Abraham's servant at the well, Genesis 24:42-44, indicates that the Lord was interested in the mating alliance of Israel, and we have no evidence that he has changed in this particular. The prayer of the Prophet Zenos seems to be of sufficiently complete record to have place in this class. This prayer is a most perfect counting of blessings before the Lord. Alma 44:4-11. Its literary merit alone makes it worth reading. The prayer of dedication of the Temple of Solomon comes in this group; it is an inspiring piece of spiritual literature, recorded in I Kings 8:22-57. Solomon's prayer for wisdom, I Kings, Chapter 3:7-9 inclusive. The uttering of this prayer was the wisest thing that Solomon ever did. The Lord's prayer is a most important prayer of complete record. The first word "our" eliminates selfishness, and the word "Father" is God's family or patriarchal name, not his official name. The word "Father" eliminates distance, and brings us into the closest and most tender relations possible. The phrase, GUIDE LESSONS 53 "which art in heaven" restricts or centers the interest to one being, and by implication acknowledges the existence of other fathers. The expression, "hallowed by thy name" places a halo of spiritual reverence around the name of God, pointing strongly to the glory of the position of fatherhood. "Thy kingdom come" calls for a recognition of the existence of heaven, with God as the "Father King." "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven" is representative of a desire to do willingly here and now, and have everybody do willingly what God would have done, because that will bring heaven or make a heaven of this earth. "Give us this day our daily bread." This sentence contains a confession of need, and a recognition that the Lord can supply ? that need. Not so much the needs of our bodies but the needs of our spirits. To the properly taught it is a petition for what the Lord sees is best for us. "Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us." This complex sentence is a request with a selfimposed condition, amounting to a declaration of willingness to remain unforgiven just to the extent that we will not forgive. "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil." The second part of this sentence indicates the truth of what the Apostle James says concerning temptation, James 1:13. The call for deliverance is a recognition of the fact that we expect to be environed by evil which would overcome us if the Lord left us there. "Thine be the Kingdom, and the power, and glory forever and ever" is a concentration of an expressed desire for God to be our King, always, and with power to govern in his own way with honor and love, because it all belongs to him. The word "Amen," meaning "so be it," is a reaffirmation of all we have said. The prayer of the Savior before going to Gethsemane, John 17, is perhaps the greatest prayer of record ever uttered. It should be read in meeting. This thrice repeated prayer at Gethsemane is a perfect exemplification of the subordination of desire to will. Matt. 26:39-42. The petition on the cross, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do," Luke 23-34, contains so much of the divine and so little of the human, that comments are all out of place, other than to say that it was character ideality realized. Christ's final prayer on the cross may be found in Luke 23:46. Christ's prayer on this continent, after his resurrection, Book of Mormon III Nephi, 19:19-23. The prayer of the prophet in Liberty jail and its answer Doc. & Cov. 121:1-23. This prayer is one of the most perfect 54 illustrations of the difference between anger and righteous indignation, to be found in sacred literature. The prayers offered at the dedication of temples, the first one of this dispensation being recorded in Section 109, Doctrine & Covenants. There is much material for the student of "Mormon" sociology. It is one of the great landmarks in the progressive history of the Latter-day Saints. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.. 1. In the light of James 1:13, would it be unorthodox to substitute "leave us not in temptation,' for "lead us not into temptation?" 2. In the light of Doctrine and Covenants, 36:41, would it be theologically proper to open or close the Lord's prayer in the "name of Jesus Christ?" Book of Mormon, III Nephi, 18:19. 3. Why was Solomon's prayer for wisdom the wisest thing he ever did? 4, Show that the brother of Jared literally prayed for light. 5. What is the big lesson to be learned from the prayer of the Prophet Joseph in Liberty jail? 6. Why will historians and sociologists make a special study of our temple dedicatory prayer? 7. Of what special value to you is the prayer recorded in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 4:16-35? 8. What doctrine concerning church elections is taught in the prayer recorded in Acts 1:24? LESSON II. Work and Business Second Week In March. LESSON ITI. Literature Third Week in March. In our last lesson we devoted considerable space to the compositions of Professor George Careless, and of such importance are his compositions, to Latter-day Saint hymnology, that we feel fully justified in devoting a second lesson to his work. GUIDE LESSONS 55 In a recent interview with Professor Careless, he said that he always enjoyed writing music to Eliza R. Snow's poems, because they are so full of substance. He relates the following touching story of the composition called "Reliance," sung to the words of "Though deepening trials throng your way." Professor Careless at the time was prostrate with grief and illness; for three weeks he had been unable to eat, so that his vitality was greatly reduced. His grief resulted from the loss of his wife, Lavina Triplett Careless; a soprano with a voice of rich beauty, and also he was suffering from heavy financial loss. When his little daughter, then twelve years of age, saw her father going into a decline, she became fearful lest he might not recover, and in the agony of her soul exclaimed, "Father, I am not going to lose you also!' At this cry of pain from the child, he rallied and said, "No, my child; give mea piece of paper." She handed him the paper and he wrote the music "Reliance." We have here a remarkable instance of music being made the medium of solace and comfort and fortitude for a soul bowed down with sorrow. The music known as "Parting," sung to words written by President Charles W. Penrose, was composed for and first sung at the funeral service of Brigham Young. This hymn is not to be found either in the hymn book or the Psalmody. Professor Careless could write music on the spur of the moment. He tells the story of Gen. Charles S. Burton coming to him at the demise of his wife, Julia, and placing some lines within his hand, asked that Professor Careless set them to music that they might be sung at her funeral service. Professor Careless did as Mr. Burton requested, and this piece of music, which Mr. Burton called "Julia" was sung at Mrs. Burton's funeral service. "Rest," written for the funeral service of President George A. Smith, (the father of Clarissa S. Williams, now the honored president of the Relief Society) was set to Eliza R. Snow's words "Hark, from afar a funeral knell." Professor Careless tells us that it was the custom, at the time he was director of the Tabernacle Choir, to have choir practice Friday evenings, "One Sunday afternoon during the services Ebenezer Beesley asked me what we should sing the following Friday night at choir practice." Professor Careless paused for a moment, then said, "Wait, and I will show you." He recalls the incident as if it were yesterday. Prest. Wilford Woodruff was addressing the audience. Brother Careless does not tell us whether anything Elder Woodruff was 96 saying influenced what he was doing, but what he does tell 'us is that he wrote the music in those moments, that the Saints have sung for many years to the words of, "Arise, my soul arise." Professor Careless says there were very few Sacrament hymns, so that he frequently wrote music to words suitable for sacrament hymns, in an attempt to supply this want. On the following Friday the choir practiced this new music, and the next Sunday sang it, very much to the delight of President Brigham Young, who was very fond of music. On another occasion, Ebenezer Beesley, who succeeded Professor Careless as choir leader, asked that Brother Careless compose some music for "Another day has fled," as Brother Beesley regarded these words as especially choice. In accord with Brother Beesley's request, Professor Careless wrote the music and called it "Meditation." The hymn is very greatly liked by many people. In telling the story of "Meditation" Professor Careless remarked "Ebenezer Beesley was a student of mine, and I was very proud of his talent." The thing that stands out prominently in all of Professor Careless' recitals, in relation to his compositions, is that they were done, as it were, on the instant, and yet they endure. We have all lived to realize how rare men of Professor Careless' genius are; the Latter-day Saints assuredly owe this greatly gifted man a debt which we have not yet fathomed; still of this one thing we are certain, that wherever song is sacred among the Latter-day-Saints, wherever the songs of Zion are used as a medium of praise to the Almighty, the name of George Careless will be held in gratitude and sacred remembrance. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Have the words of "Reliance" read, then sung to the Careless music. Do you think the words and music are in keeping with the story of its composition? 2. Who was Professor George Careless' successor, as leader of the Tabernacle Choir? 3. List the sacrament hymns in the L. D. S. Hymn book to which Professor Careless has set music. (See Psalmody, Edition I, or II.) 4. List the hymns in the L D. S. Hymn book, written by Eliza R. Snow, to which Professor Careless has set music. (See Psalmody, Edition I, or IT.), 5. Read very carefully the words of "Another day has fled;" then listen to the music played on the organ. Do you think Professor Careless has caught the spirit of the words in his music? 6. Do you think "Meditation" a good name for this composition? 7. Have some one prepare a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material may be found in Volume I Church Biographical Encyclopedia, GUIDE LESSONS 57 LESSON IV. Social Service Fourth Week in March. PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY AND THE HOME. According to the ancient Greeks, the body is the outward symbol of health and beauty of the soul. The mediaeval thinkers, on the other hand, saw in the body only sensuality. Man's fleshly nature was regarded as an obstacle which hinders spiritual development. The Latter-day Saints view the physical body of man somewhat as did the Greeks; it is the sacred tabernacle of the spirit. The soul of man, or man in his perfect state, is the union of the body and the spirit. The body is furthermore the means through which the spirit develops its powers. Health, vitality, endurance, are essential to the moral, intellectual, and spiritual development of man, as well as basic to the enjoyment of life. Although many who have been handicapped by weak physical constitutions, have attained greatness, many more have failed to succeed because of poor health. And it is reasonable to suppose that those of poor health who did succeed would have made even greater success if this handicap had not existed. We are concerned here not so much with the general problem of health as we are with the question of health in relation to the home. Two questions should be answered in this and the following lesson: (1) how does the question of health affect the home? And (2) how can the home control the conditions of health? WHY PARENTS SHOULD HAVE GOOD HEALTH. Without question there is no responsibility in life that draws more heavily upon physical vitality than that of home leadership. The great majority of men who support families in our communities are compelled to devote the greater part of their lives to hard work. The average man during a period of thirty or forty years will have some members of his family depending directly upon his earning power. Since the great majority of the heads of families are men whose income depends entirely upon their labor, it follows naturally that when their strength fails, their income discontinues. Nor is the demand made upon the physical vitality of the wife and mother less severe than that made upon the husband and father. As a housewife and mother, there will come to her life few vacations. The average woman works early and late 58 ' and all the time. When she is ill, the entire family suffers. All household duties are neglected, the discipline of the children breaks down. More important than as a housewife, is woman as a mother; and to perform this function requires even more physical vitality and nerve energy. To give birth to children, and to care for them properly, is a task that demands all the strength, energy, and health that God has given the average woman. SIGNIFICANCE OF PREVENTIVE MEASURES IN MATTERS OF HEALTH. Poor health is frequently due to carelessness; often it is the result of ignorance; but sometimes it is due to conditions over which the parents have no control. But whatever may be the cause, it is the spirit and purpose of our organization to remove suffering and lighten human burdens, wherever and whenever occasions present themselves. We are quite sure, however, that to educate the young men and women, both single and married, to a realization of the importance of health and to train them in the method and conditions of health is more economical than to care for them when they are sick. The schools are doing a great deal in this respect, but the home can do even more; it can put into effect the principles of health taught in the schools; it can make the health ideals actual habits of life. These principles of health can best be impressed upon the mind of youth if parents themselves show proper respect for their own bodies. Too often a father or a mother will make unwise and. Unnecessary sacrifices of their own health in order to carry on the ordinary home duties. This attitude of parents toward their own bodies is sure not to stimulate in the minds of their children the importance of health, and moreover it will sooner or later render the parent less efficient. Young people are inclined to lessen their vitality through reckless pursuit of amusements and through dissipation; parents often sacrifice their own health through the daily life of toil. Our aim should be to have every member of the family, from: the youngest to the oldest, occasionally examined by an expert physician. This examination will reveal whether the body is in proper condition and whether improper and unnecessary sacrifices of health are being tolerated either in child or parent. It may be better economy to employ a doctor before we break down in health, than afterwards. And it is sure to have real educational value. GUIDE LESSONS 59 QUESTIONS, 1, What is the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints regarding the relation between the body and the spirit? How do we define the soul of man? 2. What evidence can you present to show that a good mind requires a healthy body? 3. In what way does poor health affect the welfare of the home? 4. Why should (a) the father and (b) the mother enjoy health? 5. What justification can you give for physical examination, even though you are apparently in perfect health? 6. Describe (a) the man (b) the woman, whom you consider physicially fit for marriage. 7. In relation to health education, justify the expression, "An ounce of prevention is better than a pound of cure." TEACHER'S TOPIC March RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATION. I. _ Reasons for its organization. II. Aims and Purposes of the Society. THE STAR AND THE MANGER. Oh! Stars, do you still remember How the shepherds watched through the night, When among you there shone one bright star, They say 'twas a glorious sight. Oh! Bethlehem, do you remember The dear, precious gift that was laid In the manger down among your lowly, When the angels sang, "Be not afraid?" O! Judah, do you now remember The promises long made to you? To Jerusalem are you returning To make all the prophecies true? Scattered Israel, in Gentile nations, Do you watch this return unafraid Of the judgments now poured out upon you, What protection around you is laid? O! Star in the manger, your shadow Lies deep on the earth's troubled breast, While the angels keep watch on this Christmas That Zion and Judah may rest. AsBiE R. Mapsen, To the SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for Your Expiration! Are You a Subscriber to the ? If not you are missing an opportunity to keep in touch with Relief Society work; and also the opportunity to help solve your Relief Society and home problems. Send your subscription to 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah ne Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME?36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.; "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Temple Block Salt Lake City It is our helpfulness and willingness in assuming the responsibility for the succcess of every meal, that =" DICKINSON'S the Household Word in hundreds of happy homes Quality?Cleanliness?Accuracy?Dependability CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES SERVICE PRESS Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044. Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Western Scout SHOES A PHOTOGRAPH Is a suitable gift for almost any occasion. It speaks a universal language?a language understood by everybody. Whether it conveys a message of love or friendship, it tells it more effectively than a written letter. Of course, to do this it has to be a "Speaking Likeness"?the kind they make at Phone Was. 2861 ? ? Main St., Salt Lake Lumiere Studio 680 East 2nd South Street 228 West Broadway. Hyland 60 Salt Lake City Over 1,000 New Readers Every Month For the past TEN MONTHS. One of the reasons is our Wonderful New Pictorial Supplement. Have You Seen It? Dependable The De BELE i News Progressive The Utah State National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and diecuss business plans with them. Officers Heser J. Grant, President. Cartes W. Niszey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Bunton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvim C. Srronc, Assistant Cashier. Jouw W. Jaues, Asst. Cashier. An Appropriate gift A Bound Volume of the Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 Vols. Of 1915 Cloth Bound $1.75 1 Vol. Of 1918 Leather Bound 2.00 2 Vols. Of 1919 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 1 Vol. Of 1919 Leather Bound 3.00 6 Vols. Of 1920 Cloth Bound.. 2.75 10 Vols. Of 1920 Leather 6 | ie 3.00 15e Extra for postage. All orders should be addressed te 'the , Room 29, Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons NE WAS. 3223 - P.0.80X /7/3 SALT LAKE C/TY uma tt ad ohh S dw ON ?69 HYIN NYYXOT HILLY INLATH LV aS Wy NYTLSAUNM 2 Was. SM BER er inviraTio? Was. 912 'A Spirit of Friendly Sympathy Marks Every Feature of Our Service s M. TAYLOR & COMPANY successors to Joseph E. Taylor 'Funeral Directors to the People of Salt Lake City and Vicinity S. M. TAYLOR, President since 1860. PHONE WASATCH 912. A. MEEKING, JR., Secy. And Treas. ~ An institution, founded when the city was yet young, whose service has been faithfully built up to note- ' worthy eminence in the ee of funeral service. Was. 912 251-257 East First South Street.. Was. 912 e sar Sar a eT: