Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon

THANKSGIVING Day inevitably turns our thoughts backward to the sturdy character of our Pilgrim Fathers. They are literally the forefathers of many Latter-day Saint men and women, as was remarked by a noted genealogist visiting in Salt Lake City some years ago. The Rich family, who have contributed much to the strength of the Church, are descendants of the Captain Rich who owned and piloted the Mayflower on the voyage when it carried the first Pilgrims to American shores.

THE Olympic Games indicate that Fanny Blankers-Koen, thirty, a Dutch mother and housewife, is the world's greatest woman athlete. She easily won four first places in the games: the eighty-meter women's hurdles, in which she established a new world record of eleven and two-tenths seconds; the 100-meter and 200-meter women's sprints; and the anchor in the 400-meter women's relay. She already holds the world record for the women's broad jump, for which she could not compete this time as it was held at the same time as one of the events in which she was contending. Had she won this in the Games, she would have been the only known athlete since the dawn of the Olympic Games to win five first places.

Our American, Babe Didrikson, won enormous prestige for taking two first places and one second in the 1936 Olympics.

WILHELMINA, now self-titled dowager princess of the Netherlands, abdicated the throne of the Netherlands and the Dutch Empire September 4, in favor of her daughter Juliana. It was Wilhelmina's sixty-eighth birthday and the fiftieth anniversary of her coronation. Her reign has been marked by thrift, simplicity, a close relationship with her people, which was a distinct royal innovation, a shrewd insight into affairs of state, and the courage to follow the path she believed right, and in some cases humane, in the face of general opposition. She is the sole survivor of seventeen monarchs contemporary with her first days as queen. Five only wore their crowns until their deaths.

Wilhelmina's hobbies have been bicycling, skating, horseback riding, walking in the woods, and painting. Two days after her mother's abdication, Juliana became queen of the Netherlands at an investiture service at Niewe Kerk, the church being now connected with the royal palace. Juliana is the mother of four daughters.