[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Dame May, beloved in Britain and America, and a very popular actress in our moving pictures, died in 1948. Ys E COWL, playwright and actress, noted for several Shakespearean roles on the American stage, died last June. UTH MAY FOX, former president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, celebrated her ninety-seventh birthday on November 16, 1950.
Among other accomplishments, she walked about after having been invalided for several months by a fractured hip.
Though her eyesight has failed considerably, she still writes poetry and memorizes entire chapters of scripture. CLARA BRYANT FORD, eightythree, widow of Henry Ford, died in September 1950. She kept up his hopes and his spirits during the difficult years of experimenting with the "mechanical buggy." He often called her "the believer." RS. CHARLES B.. KNOX, ninety-two, died in September 1950.
When her husband, the gelatine manufacturer, died in 1908, she took over the tiny factory and made it into a model business. Her explanation of her success was: "T just used common sense."  CQ EDITORIAL o~9 
VOL. 
She Old and the New Blessed of the Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew and for the deep.. And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun... And for the chief things of 'the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the laste hills... (Deuteronomy 33:13-15). N this time of the year's beginning, we look toward the new days with a desire to enrich our lives and the lives of our associates. We wish to use our limited time with prudence and with rejoicing.
Moments of evaluation come to us, when we seek to find "the chief things" of the earth.
Again we ask ourselves if we have found steadfast wisdom and guidance for our lives.
Many people are perplexed regarding the seeming conflict between the old and the new, between that which is traditional and that which seems to be newly discovered.
There are those who say that because an idea or a possession is old it should be discarded, and all new thoughts and new things should be accepted without question because they are new.
There is no depth of thought beneath this surface generalization.
Shall we throw away something beautiful because it has been in the family a long time?
Shall we refuse to listen to the wisdom that has been tested through the ages?
Shall we say that faith in God is superstition because it has long lived in the hearts of men? To do so would be to deny the testing power of time. It would be to say that the efforts of the good and the great have been in vain, that the work of their hands  and the majesty of their words have passed away. 'To forget the longcherished ideal of life would be to deny that there is an eternal plan, unchanging and unchangeable, in its law and order, by which all men are bound.
Everywhere the old and the new are inseparable. 'The young mother who first looks into the face of her child, and the elderly woman who looks with faith upon her return to the spirit world are both a part of eternal life. The clean snows of January cover the old leaves and the stubble fields of many seasons, and the green leaf of April springs from a dark and seemingly barren bough.
Think of walking on the turf of pine needles in the forest—how deep with years —and yet looking up and seeing the fresh green plume shining on the end of the bough.
Everywhere the old and the permanent, the enduring things of earth, are linked inseparably with renewal, and with the spirit of morning. The old and the new are one.
They are the cycles of eternity, and that which we call change is but the turning of a wheel bringing us to a time when our -troubles and _perplexities shall be made plain, "for now we see through a glass, darkly; but then -face to face."
Even the EDITORIAL new discoveries in science are but the application of laws and forces that have existed before the world was formed.
Many of the so-called new social theories, some of them already found wanting, many of them misguided and unprogressive, are but an attempt to find a way that men may deal justly with each other. 'That way has long been found. It was set forth on the enduring tablets of stone. It is not a new pattern which we need, but a new devotion to an ancient plan. When Jesus stood upon a mountain in the Holy Land, his words fell upon the multitudes as a new light, as a great illumination, but he spoke the truth of the ages—even that gospel which was established 31 in the spirit world.
When the young boy, Joseph Smith, prayed in the grove of tall trees, an olden truth was restored to him, and he saw it with the wonder and the glory of youth. It was given to a great poet to ask: "Why wander round... Why wander vainly round?
What canst thou find with seeking, which hath not long been found?" It is the cry of many "Oh, that I might believe, for then I should be strengthened. I would not be alone."
Those who recognize in their own lives and in the world the operation of divine and eternal law, find a stability and a serenity unknown to those who seek, unguided, for that which is new. Wep c. 4
Gow Tlew