[Work Meeting: Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Pictures, Mirrors, and Wall Accessories Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 10, 1951 CONSIDERABLE time and thought can be expended in selecting colors and arranging furniture, but, if any important decorative details in your home are overlooked, the attractive, livable results desired may not be achieved. One of these important details, all too frequently overlooked, is the proper use of wall hangings, including pictures, mirrors, brackets, and other wall accessories.
Wall hangings of all types provide an unusual opportunity for you to give your home that personal touch.
With the possible exception of draperies, there is no other phase of home decorating in which individuality can be expressed so quickly, effectively, and inexpensively as in the selection and placement of pictures and other wall hangings.
Pictures can flatter and dress up a wall; they can dramatize a furniture grouping; they can make a small piece of furniture appear important and they can provide that added touch which gives a room interest, balance, and hospitality. In selecting pictures, avoid the error of buying just anything to fill up wall space.
Select your pictures as carefully as any other item in your home furnishings, paying particular attention to color, size, and type.
Remember that color in pictures can make or break a room's decoration. If colors in a picture clash with patterned wallpaper, or with colors or design in furniture, the effect will be confusing and uninteresting. If, on the other hand, your pictures pick up and accent the colors in your draperies, upholstery, 56 tug, and walls, the effect will be pleasing and harmonious. The size of pictures, also, is important. 'The picture or picture grouping should bear a proper relationship in size to the furniture with which it is used, and also to the wall area occupied. In determining the size of your pictures, do not feel that you must always choose single, large ones. A wall area which requires a considerable amount of coverage often can be more effectively treated with a group of smaller pictures than with a large single one.
Good decorating recommends that small pictures should not be scattered around the room, but, rather, should be grouped together on wall areas or over furniture groups or pieces which you wish to emphasize or dramatize. In creating these groups, the pictures should be arranged to form horizontal and vertical rectangles, squares, or triangles.
Pictures should not be hung in step-up fashion unless running up a staircase. All pictures in the _ group should be hung close together so that they form an integral unit, to give a feeling of one large picture. In forming a group of pictures, be sure the subjects are related.. For instance, you would not hang oil paintings, flower or bird prints, and etchings in the same group. You can, however, use various types of pictures in the same room, but not in the same group. One way to be sure of an interesting arrangement without marring your walls, is to arrange the pictures first on the floor, and then cut patterns of them out of brown paper and attach these _ together with Scotch tape. Try this  pattern on the wall for size and interest. If it creates the desired effect, then hang the pictures themselves exactly as the pattern. For interest and balance, pictures should form a part of a furniture grouping, and not hang in independent areas of their own.
When hung over a chest or sofa they should be hung close enough together to form a single unit.
Pictures should be hung low, placed flat against the wall, and set so that neither cord nor nails show.
When two or more pictures are hung together, the bottom line of the frames should be on the same level regardless of the size of the pictures. In order to get the maximum pleasure and decorative effect from your pictures, they need not be expensive commercial oils or prints. You can have fun assembling and framing your own. Try cutting various flower pictures from a seed catalogue, arranging them artistically to form a bouquet on a large colored piece of blotting paper.
Frame the pictures yourself with molding purchased from your lumber dealer, after painting the molding a harmonious color.
Flower or bird prints can often be found in magazines. You can mount these on colored mats that pick up a color from the print and hang in groups for an effective splash of color in your room. Use your imagination, and you will think of many more interesting and helpful ideas. Remember, in framing your pictures, the rules are simple— express your own personality, suit the frame to the picture itself and to the character of your room. The same basic principles of good taste and judgment applied to the LESSON DEPARTMENT use of pictures also apply to the selection and hanging of mirrors.
Mirrors add life, gaiety, and spaciousness to a home and perform a function which cannot be filled by any other type of home furnishing. In hanging your mirrors, see that they reflect something interesting and that their size is appropriate to the wall space. If a mirror is too small for proper balance over a piece of furniture or on a wall area, it can be built out by hanging, on each side, a group of pictures, colorful china plates, or wall brackets holding interesting objects. In decorating your walls do not overlook the possibilities of brackets and colorful plates.
These can be used to add importance and size a7 to a picture or mirror, or they can be used in interesting groups of their own. In using plates as wall decorations, again make sure they express the feeling of your room, formality or informality, and that they have the same general coloring as the rest of your room. Discussion Points 1.
Discuss the importance of pictures and wall hangings which express the character of a room. 2.
Give ideas on framing pictures. Why, with the exception of oil paintings, should most pictures have mats? 3.
Demonstrate various ways of hanging a group of pictures. 4.
Show how a small piece of furniture can be made to look important by the use of suitable wall decorations. Ie eagle — ine