["The Wild Geese Fly," by Marvin Jones,]

Wild Geese Sly Marvin Jones Pencil lines etched in a wind-swept sky, Far over the river the wild geese fly, High-wavering wedges, a tremulous skein In the yarn of adventure; their wild refrain An undulant, resonant, vibrating call Echoing, beckoning wanderers all. Far-ranging nomads, unfettered—free, Seeking instinctively life's destiny; Beating their way through a wind-weary sky, Far over the river the wild geese fly. A G ingerbread Hlouse Phyllis Snow 'Home Service Department, Mountain Fuel Supply Company Photograph by Hal Rumel GINGERBREAD HOUSE [As shown at the work meeting demonstration of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1950] Baking temperature: 375° Time: 12
Minutes 1. Sift together— 2% c. Flour 3 tsp. Baking powder " tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Ginger 1 tsp. Cinnamon % tsp. Cloves 2. Combine— % C. Molasses % c. Brown sugar: 34 % c. Shortening, melted 3. Combine the two mixtures and chill one hour. 4. Roll dough on the back of cookie sheets. Cover with paper patterns and trace with a sharp knife. Remove extra dough. (Scraps may be re-rolled for other sections or figures, but must be kept chilled. ) 5. Bake.  CABLE (Cut 2 pieces) cUuT cur out our cur cur OUT our BACK (Cut 1 piece) —-——-—-——+| GINGERBREAD HCUSE ( 7 x 5" x 7) i _ _— FRONT =| B" (Cut 1 piece)" ~ r 77 ROOF (Cut 2 pieces) A GINGERBREAD HOUSE 
35  pS oe Reon DOORSTEP (Cut 1 piece) 'ens pon } aT (cut oe 28" 6. Remove to cake racks and cool thoroughly. 7. Beat until fluffy and thick— 1 egg white 1 c. Powdered sugar — 8. Tint as desired and use to decorate the house. Decorating lines are indicated on the pattern pieces. A cake decorating set helps. G. Melt (caramelize)—_ 1 Cc. Sugar 10. Use to hold pieces together when combining them into the house. 11. Make a Christmas star tree. 12. Makea fence of orange chocolate sticks, held together with toothpicks and gumdrops. 13. Make a seven-minute icing or a divinity icing, and spread thickly over a cardboard square large enough to be the yard. 14. Center Gingerbread House as desired. 15. Locate Christmas star tree or popcorn tree and fence. 16. If figures are made, they may also be added. 17. Let all stand until firm in a cool, dry place. Yield: 1
House -~>- P rogress Agnes Just Reid Great-grandma had a cabin, Mother had a mansion No windows at all, I'm told, With windows on every side, Just a tiny shelter But covered them with heavy drapes To keep out the winter cold.
When she came in as a bride. - Grandma had some windows I have a-picture window, To let in sun and light, And oh, what a welcome change, But she was very careful It has no blinds, no curtains, To keep the shades drawn tight. And it lets in a mountain range.