[Vol2 | September 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Clothing for Women Past Forty — The Two Sarahs]

Clothing for Women Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. SKIRTS. To the question of Why do we wear clothes? I hear the answer of many women, To be in fashion. Human clothing has three reasons why, first health, second decency, third beauty. "Health demands maintenance of a proper temperature of the body, protection from the elements, perfect liberty of action, and freedom from pressure. Decency demands covering, distinction between dress of men and women, that no mistake can be made, fitness for the age and character of the wearer, concealment ? where possible ? of any unseemly personal defect. Beauty demands truthfulness. The dress must be genuine without any false pads; using graceful forms of drapery, har
 mony of colors, a moderate consistency with prevailing styles, as shall produce the impression of sociability and suavity and avoid self-assertion. The dress suiting the wearer as if it were an outer body belonging to the same soul." The very attractive, not too short, skirt of the coming season will meet all these demands; being a complete covering and protection, giving freedom of action, because of its fullness, perfectly sanitary as to its length, while no question could arise as to its sex, and there is no call for pads or heavy lining to make it stylish. So long live the decidedly charming skirt of 1915. Webster says the skirt is that part of the lady's garment which comes below the waist, but Dame Fashion says, "it shall be above the waist line," and so it is and so it will remain another season. A slender person may choose a style that falls a little full from the waist, or the pretty two, three or five-piece ripple or flare skirt; or one with the panel front and inverted plaits at the side. For the stouter lady the skirt with the hip section or a yoke, and a slight ripple from the hip down, has a graceful effect; she too can wear the plaits if pressed and tacked closely to within three or four inches of the bottom of the skirt. Choice of materials is not limited; for winter use our own Provo Woolen Mills goods; we have the poplins, serges, gabardines, broadclothes and the delightful taffetas; large plaids in silks and serges are going to be quite the thing, and one of the newest skirts is a combination of taffeta and serge. For a serviceable street skirt, choose home-made broadcloth, a poplin or a serge in black or navy blue, three yards and half; waist belting, from two and a half to four or five inches wide, a skirt braid, one spool silk, and one spool thread, same color as material. Pin all your pattern carefully on the material before cutting. If the goods has a nap or an up and down pattern, you will have to cut the goods all one way; if not, the pattern can be turned up or down to save material. After cutting and basting, fit the belt, sewing on the hooks and eyes, then fit the skirt on the belt, pinning the skirt in to fit the figure. Regulation length is three to four inches from the ground. To obtain an even all around length, have the person stand on the table, take a piece of cardboard the required number of inches from the floor, and mark with chalk or pins. The seams cut on the bias should be finished with a piece of tape or straight goods to prevent it from sagging. The peg-top skirt can be made quite up to date, by turning it upside down, letting out the plaits for the flare on the bottom of the skirt and fitting the bottom of the skirt in to the belt.