[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: World Happenings James H. Anderson]

World Happenings By James H. Anderson "Mormon" missionaries were being sent to Germany in June. Ex-President Wm. H. Taft was appointed, in June, as chief justice of the United States Supreme Court. Mexico has purchased land in Sonora formerly owned by "Mormons," for the sum of $100,000. The Federation of Women's Clubs held its convention in Salt Lake City the week of June 13. Treland's rebellion continued in June, with many efforts for settlement being made by British statesmen. Japan noted in June the anti-Japanese feeling in the United States, but has no disposition to engage in war. The Irish Ulster parliament was formerly opened by King George V of Great Britain, at Belfast, on June 22. The League of Nations has thus far avoided the great disputes in Europe, leaving these to the large nations as of yore. The Zionist organization at Pittsburg, Pa., raised an additional $5,000,000 in June, for Palestine development. Busines improvement in the United States was promised in financial circles for this summer, but thus far it is only promise. The Bonneville irrigation project in Davis County, Utah, in some respects the largest in the West, was formally opened to service on July 4th. Greece and Turkey continued at war in earnest during June. The former refused to allow the European great nations to adjust the dispute. Dr. Herbert Louis Samuels, high commissioner for Palestine, is meeting with marked success in securing harmony among the creeds there. 
 Stelia Benson, an English woman, made a trip around the world, earning her own way, the last three years, reaching London in June. She had many thrilling experiences. Shipment of over 500 machine guns from the United States to Ireland was stopped in June by American government officers. In Great Britain, on June 27, the great coal miners' strike came to an end. The effect in the United States was to quiet proposed industrial disturbances here. Mrs. Virginia Mason Huck, daughter of the late Congressman Mason of Illinois, has been designated to fill her father's unexpired term in Congress. Charles F. Champlin, treasurer of a Chicago soap factory, defeated 45 women entrants at the Evanston, Ills., fair, in June, in the contest for a prize for making the best loaf of bread. The American Federation of Labor, at its convention in Denver in June, endorsed members convicted in Kansas as lawbreakers, and re-elected Samuel Gompers as its president. Maximilian Harden, the noted German political writer, in an announcement made in June, says Germany is a republic without republicans, the people not caring as to the form of goyernment there. Lady Surma, who acted as ambassador from Assyria to Great Britain, is likely to be the first president of the new Assyrian government. She is a woman of marked ability and tactfulness. 10,000 Mennonites propose to move from Canada to Mexico in the near future, because the Canadian government proposes to teach their children history, geography, and the English language. Lightning caused an oil tank fire at Salt Lake City on June 3, resulting in three dead and many injured. A similar cause ignited seven oil tanks at Casper, Wyo., but there was no loss of life. Kate Richard O'Hare, Socialist lecturer who was to have WORLD HAPPENINGS 471 delivered an address at Twin Falls, Idaho, on the last of June, was kidnapped and carired to Nevada by a dozen men, and there succeeded in making her escape unharmed. Mrs. Louie B. Felt and Miss May Anderson, president and first counselor in the L, D. S. Primary Associations, went to New York in June, to study methods for homes for dependent and convalescing children. Mrs. Rosita Forbes, an English woman, returned in June from a trip to Kufra, the sacred city of the African Arabs. She is the only European to make the trip, and on numerous occasions narrowly escaped being put to death. War between the United States and Germany came officially to an end on July 2, by President Harding signing a peace resolution passed by Congress. This definitely removes the United States from participation in the Versailles peace treaty league. Miss Monica Parry Walsh, of New York, achieved signal success in New York in June, in getting unemployed men in New York City to go on farms as farm hands, but says there are nearly 400,000 left who should move out of the great city and get to work. Mrs. Gertrude Bonnin, a full blooded Sioux Indian, is leading in efforts to have American Indians trained with white children in American public schools, and in June received a letter from President Heber J. Grant of the "Mormon" Church to the Utah delegation in Congress, endorsing her work. Dr. George Thomas, a Utah man, elected last November as State superintendent of public instruction, was selected in June as president of the University of Utah, to succeed Dr. Widtsoe, resigned, because of his membership in the council of apostles. Dr. Thomas is capable and highly educated. Storms, resulting in disastrous floods, marked the month of June. The worst in the United States was in the Arkansas river valley, engulfing Pueblo, Colorado, and adjacent small towns, with a loss of 437 lives. In Japan, one such flood drowned 400 people. Other storms in the United States and elsewhere took less toll of life, but added to the enormous destruction of property.