[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October - Lesson III Literature Hymnology]

LESSON ITI Literature (Third Week in October) The hymnology of the Latter-day Saints is particularly rich in funeral hymns. The mere mention of such hymns as "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," "Rest on the Hill Side Rest," "When First the Glorious Light of Truth," "O, my Father," and "Resting Now," is sufficient proof of the fact. Many of the choicest of these funeral hymns were written by Eliza R. Snow, truly the most gifted woman of the fold of Christ of these latter days. As we note the fact that Eliza R. Snow's contribution of funeral hymns is especially valuable, it may be of more than passing interest to call to mind that "Nearer, my God, to Thee" and "One Sweetly Solemn Thought" were both written by women. Eliza R. Snow's 'best funeral hymns are, "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," "Your Sweet Little Rose Bud has Left You," and that great Latter-day Saint hymn, "O, my Father," which should perhaps be classified as a doctrinal hymn, but which must also be included in any list of funeral hymns of the Latter-day Saints, as it has served more frequently as a funeral hymn than any other hymn known to the Latter-day Saints. The Latter-day Saint hymn book contains over twenty hymns written by Eliza R. Snow, the only other writers who have contributed an equal number of hymns to the hymn book, are Parley P. Pratt and W. W. Phelps. The theology of the Latter-day Saints is responsible, no doubt, for the large number of good funeral hymns to be found in its hymnology. The knowledge that God is our Father, that we had a pre-existent state, and that this life is but part of the eternity to be continued in our third estate, the belief that death is as natural as birth, and that passing from this life is but passing into another realm of our Father, where living and loving and working and learning are as much the order of things as they are here, could only have the effect of stimulating literature along this line; for great thoughts accompanied by great feelings are ever the source of the poets' song. Some of the early pioneers tell us that the three most popular hymns with the Saints while crossing the plains were, "When First the Glorious Light of Truth," "O, my Father," and 'Come, Come, ye Saints." There are times when all of these hymns may appropriately be sung at funerals. The best known of Eliza R. Snow's funeral hymns are, "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone,' "O, my Father," "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," and "Your Sweet Little Rose Bud has Left You." "Thou Dost Not Weep to Weep Alone," was written after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and is the hymn that its author felt would have been an approprivate hymn to sing at his funeral service, had such a thing been possible. "Thou dost not weep to weep alone; The broad bereavement seems to fall Unheeded and unfelt by none; He was beloved, beloved by all." We are struck with the pectiliar aptness of expression found in the first stanza, for the thought that the poet gives voice to was no doubt lurking in the minds of every Latter-day Saint living at the time of his death and all who have lived since that time. The first stanza which is a declaration of love, is followed by the second stanza which is a declaration of hope. "But lo! What joy salutes our grief! Bright rainbows crown the tearful gloom, Hope, hope eternal, brings relief: Faith sounds a triumph o'er the tomb, 
 The personification of the words, hope and faith, in this stanza naturally lifts the expression, as does also the figurative language of the second line: "Tt soothes our sorrow, Says to thee, The Lord in chastening comes to bless, God is thy God, and he will be, A father to the fatherless," Hope soothes, for hand in hand with the chastening rod comes the promise that sustains, for the Lord has said that he will be a Father to the fatherless., "Tis well with the departed one; His heaven-lit lamp was shining bright, And when his mortal day went down, His spirit fled where reigns no night," Note that every figure in this stanza suggests light. "Tis meet to die as he has died; He smiled amid death's conquered gloom, White angels waited by his side, To bear a kindred spirit home." The task of paying a fitting tribute to one truly great is not an easy task. Many persons attempting so delicate a piece of work fail. Occasionally one has eminent success, as had Alfred Tennyson, when he wrote the Ode to the Duke of Wellington. The very mention of the Prophet Joseph Smith stirs the heart to the very depths, and brings to the mind a flood of memories. Sister Snow knew all this, and she knew how nearly unsupportable was the grief of the people at his untimely death. In the light of her knowledge we feel that her last stanza is particularly appropriate: "Vain are the trophies wealth can give; His memory needs no sculptor's art; He's left a name?his virtues live, 'Graved on the tablets of the heart." In this last stanza the author thinks of the worshipful love of the people. For the prophet, which is above and beyond any trophy that man can rear. The fitness of "Though Deepening Trials Throng Your Way," as a funeral hymn, rests on the sentiment of the first two stanzas: "Though deep'ning trials throng your way, Press on, press on, ye saints of God! Ere long the resurrection day Will spread its light and truth abroad." "Though outward ills await us here, The time at longest is not long Ere Jesus Christ will re-appear Surrounded by a glorious throng." After the first two stanzas the hymn is devoted to the tribulations that the latter-day Saints must endure from trials within and foes without, and lastly the poet reminds us, that God's promises fail not, and that our gratitude is due the great Creator, because he has sent his servants forth to preach the gospel unto men. We confess that this hymn lacks unity. It appears to have three themes rather than one. The excellence of the first two stanzas, coupled with the beautiful music to which it has been set by that composer-genius, George Careless, is undoubtedly responsible for its popularity. "Your Sweet Little Rosebud has Left You," is designed to be sung at the funeral of infants and very small children. This hymn is in sharp contrast to "Though Deepening Trials" in that the unity of the theme is preserved throughout. In the beginning it suggests resignation because of the hope and peace the gospel brings. The imagery employed is natural, for flowers constantly suggest children, and parents through the ages have always called their children their jewels and their treasures. Have the hymn read at this point. Note that all the consolation offered at the death of an adult is offered to those suffering for the loss of a child, to which is added the thought that the child itself will be saved the sorrow of temptation and pain, incident to all who live the mortal life. While in Nauvoo, Eliza R. Snow served as governess in the Prophet Joseph's family. While serving in this capacity, she undoubtedly heard many theological discussions on important themes not heard by people in general. The Latter-day Saints learned the gospel little by little. It took. Some time for the real significance of many truths to take hold of them. This was particularly true as it related to our kinship to our Father in Heaven, Zina D. H. Young had grieved very seriously over the loss of her mother. The discovery of the petrified body of her mother near where the Saints were located seems to have revived her grief and caused her to ask the Prophet a good many questions in relation to the dead. Her mother's body had been laid away but a few months before, but the peculiar soil had petrified it. Among other questions she asked, "Shall I know my mother when I meet her in the world beyond?" The prophet answered emphatically, "Yes, you will know your mother there." 
 This discussion with others, no doubt, led Eliza R. Snow to ponder over the matter of relationship to God, and from the prophet's revelation on this marvelously new point, in all probability came the inspiration to write that greatest of all Latterday Saint hymns, "O, my Father." The hymn was written in the city of Nauvoo in her unfinished room, on a wooden chest, which was the poet's only table. The first stanza of this immortal hymn opens with a question: "O my Father, thou that dwellest In the high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence, And again behold thy face?" The word regain publishes the knowledge of the pre-existent state. Then the imagination of the writer makes concrete the great eternal truth of the literal fatherhood of God, by setting forth the thought that in the spirit world, we dwelt with God in his holy habitation and there we were nurtured by his side. The second stanza moves to the second estate, or the mortal estate. It is for man's eternal glory that he is permitted to come to this world, and natural as it is to wish to know all the details of that life in the pre-existent estate, the poet proceeds to satisfy that desire and assures us that, "For a wise and glorious purpose, Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth." Yet, says the poet, though memory cut off the past, there is a spirit within that testifies of what has been, and this "secret something," which Eliza R. Snow calls from on high, and which Wadsworth calls an intimation, whispers, "You're a stranger here," and I feel and know that I have "wandered from a more exalted sphere." The third stanza is the most important stanza in the hymn. Pre-existence is accepted, the literal fatherhood of God acknowledged, then the logic of the situation forces the compelling truth, that there's "a mother there" as well as a father, else children could not be begotten in any world. Law is law and may not be violated in the heavens any more than on the earth. Enveloped with this great new thought Sister Snow puts the question in her own clear, inimitable way: "In the heavens are parents single? No, the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there." This question is one of the outstanding questions of literature and perhaps takes rank with that sublime question in the New Testament, "What is truth?' Then comes a question prompted by the natural yearning of the heart: "When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you." The poet has gone the whole round from the pre-existent state 'to the immortal abode where men with gods may dwell. The hymn is in simple English without embellishment. It is great because of the simplicity of its expression and the eternal truths which it unfolds and embodies. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow. 2. Name the authors of "Nearer my God to Thee" and "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." 3. Explain how the Latter-day Saints idea of heaven is in sharp contrast to the idea of heaven held for many years by persons of other creeds. 4. What is meant by the figurative expression "bright rainbows crown the tearful gloom?" 5. When we give to inanimate things the power to do the things that persons can do we personify. Show how Hope and Faith as used by our author are made to do the things that persons do, hence may be classed as personifications. 6. What do you mean by hymnology? 7. What is a good type of funeral hymn? 8. Whom do you consider Zion's best and greatest poetess? Why? 9. Explain the difference between a doctrinal hymn and a