[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Reaping the Reward or Paying the Price]

REAPING THE REWARD OR PAYING THE PRICE
June is the favorite marriage month for our young people to go to the altar to covenant with one another and with the Lord. Usually they also go into the temple to receive their endowments at the same time, and there to enter into other covenants. We have all thus vowed to be faithful, pure, loyal and to honor God and keep his commandments.
After, as well as before marriage, young people are inclined to gauge their actions by the examples set before them. Or they want excuses to relax their spiritual vigilance on some points, and therefore they quote the wrong-doing of people high in authority as justification for their own weaknesses, and the breaking of their own covenants, "Sister So and So," they say, "is on the General or Stake board, or she is the wife of a high Church man; she serves tea and coffee at her parties; or she wears short sleeves and low-necked dresses; her daughters refuse to have children oftener than once in three or four years?so why blame me?"
Mothers are often confused and distracted by these apparently simple questions which involve three separate spiritual problems: First, the strength and the weakness of example; second, the free agency of man; third, the law of cause and effect.
EDITORIAL ? 475
Every person can do right or wrong as he pleases, that is the exercise of our free agency for which the Savior died upon the Cross. Every example is subtly uplifting, or subtly degrading, and is sometimes a subtle mixture of both good and evil. But the law of cause and effect is as simple as daylight and as inevitable as death.
Content yourselves by explaining to your daughters the fact that each covenant taken at the altars of God in marriage or in daily life are but the expressions of law. Here is a law! Keep it, and you will get the blessing. Break it, and you must pay the price. Neither you nor any living man or woman can do otherwise. If you keep your marriage vows sacred, both you and your children will be blest. If you break your vows, both you and your children will pay the bitter price. So with all other covenants. Keep them, and you get the blessing; break them, and you pay the price. So will the member of the General or Stake board, and so will every wife and child of every leader in this Church. Law knows no favoritism. "There must needs be offenses!" to try us perhaps, to test our own characters, "but woe to them by whom they come!"
The Jews were like children and could bear only the lower law which "was a schoolmaster to bring them to Christ." But Latter-day Saints have the higher law and must prove their superior intelligence and maturity by observing law, no matter who may break laws about them. Tell your daughters frankly that they can always choose good or evil; but they should be strong enough and intelligent enough not to blame others for their own weaknesses. There is a reward to reap or a price to pay for every act of our lives, every thought of our brains. We pay the physical price for action as well as for inaction. Action is growth and life, inactivity is death. Think bright or think gloomy thoughts, and you reap the reward or pay the price. Others will pay the price or reap the reward. What are YOU doing? Reaping the reward or paying the price?
BOOK NOTICE
One of the most interesting and valuable stories concerning the early settlement of Utah comes from the pen of Major Howard Egan. It is The Diaries of a Pioneer of the West, a Trail Blazer of the Overland Route. He was a Pony Express and overland mail agent. Captain of 50's with the "Mormon" exodus; special messenger for "Mormon" Battalion, 1846; Capt.


9th 10 of the original 144 pioneers; he made three trips to Salt Lake from the states, and innumerable trips to California on three or more routes. The book is published by the Skelton Publishing Co., Salt Lake; but can be obtained from members of the Egan Family. William M. Egan, compiler and editor of Pioneering the West; editor and publisher of Our Desert Home, and The Utah Industrialist. Address: No. 3 Gerard Ave., Salt Lake City.