[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Girlhood's Dangers]

EDITORIAL  


GIRLHOOD'S DANGERS
We find the following pertinent remarks in a recent issue of the Boston Post. They apply to this city's dangers as much as to Boston's snares for the unwary feet of youth:
Read This, Mothers!
No Love-Making on Park Benches.
Superintendent Crowley's men, Augmented by Women Officers, to Keep Sharp Watch.
There will be no spooning allowed on Boston's park benches, according to Superintendent of Police Michael J. Crowley. Boston will not follow the example of Kansas City, Mo., and recognize love-making as a legitimate summer sport, as Chief of Police Edwards of that city has done. The police of the western city may have something more to do than clear the park benches of boys and girls making love, but it is still part of the duty of Boston police officers. In addition, there are now six police-women, a part of whose duty it is to prevent love-making in the parks and what it often leads to. Superintendent Crowley is not of the same opinion as the Kansas City police head.
EDITORIAL ? 473
"I think lots of harm comes of promiscuous love-making on park benches," said the superintendent. "We don't allow it in Boston. A young couple can sit on a park bench without fear of interference if they behave themselves. But if they start any hugging or kissing they will be spoken to. For persisting, and for certain other things, we arrest them.
"During the war and since, the rules against love-making in public have been very stringent. If anything, we are making a harder fight against it than ever before, and several organizations interested in the welfare of the young have taken very definite steps to put a stop to it.
"No," said superintendent Crowley, "love-making in the parks will not be given free rein as a summer sport this season."
"If they would stick to the benches it would be safe. But most of the park type of love-making merely starts there," said Miss Mary E. Driscoll of the U. S. Social Hygiene board, who works among the soldiers and sailors who are in or pass through this city.
"No one wants to stop love-making. It is a perfectly natural expression of the growing boy and girl,' added Miss Driscoll. "Many of them, both boys and girls, for one reason and another, need to be protected against what they do not know, and for their future happiness.
"This 'handling stuff' is dangerous, unless girls and boys have the proper environment and guidance, few are constituted so that they can come through the period when the crave affection unharmed. The risk of their doing so is very great.
"I believe love-making to be the inalienable right of every young man and woman, but I can not agree to accept it as a legitimate summer sport on our park benches.
"The greatest danger is to the little girls of 14, and even as young as 12, who have no understanding of the craving within them for affection. It is really a beautiful thing, and it is too bad that it should lead to such evil ends.
"Once let a girl taste the promiscuous affection that is usually dispensed from a park bench by a boy who may be a stranger, and it is difficult to find anything else that you can offer her to take its place.
"It is pathetic, and it would surprise many people to know how absolutely the girl believes in the avowals of the first young man who tells her how sweet and lovely she is," said Miss Driscoll. "But it spoils them, and when their Prince Charming seeks pastures new, they do the same thing.
"I wish it was a law that every young girl from the ages of 12 to 18, seen in doubtful company on the streets or under doubt-


ful circumstances, could be spoken to and questioned by the proper authorities.
"I think it should be a law that women and girls be kept from lying on the grass on the Common, or any park after a certain hour at night. This might work a hardship to some mothers of the poorer quarters of the city and their babies, but the protection it would afford to young women and girls would balance it many times over.
"We should enforce the law keeping girls of 17 and under out of the public dance halls which they now frequent and which are so dangerous to them for the examples set by older girls and women.
"If a philanthropist wants to confer a benefit on the youth of the city, he or she can establish a clean dance hall, without jazz, where girls and boys can dance together decently. Youth is entitled to dance and to make love, but how to make it safe for them is the problem..
"One thing more," said Mrs. Driscoll. "Let parents encourage their children to express their affection for them at home. Don't try to suppress affection. It is one of the reasons little girls pick up with boys on park benches."