THE POET'S IDEAL WOMAN.

	The woman of the poet may be said to be
an index to the character of the man; his con-
ception of her worth and relative station mark-
ing him as generous and high minded, or con-
ceited and with a soul of narrow and cramped
calibre. She is also not so entirely an ideal,
but that to a certain degree, she is an exponent
of the time in which the poet lives, as of the
period which he seeks to represent. Those
ages and nations who have raised woman to
the highest pinnacle of importance have al-
ways attained to the greatest mental and moral
excellence; while those who have given her but
a menial or in any way inferior position have
remained correspondingly low in the scale of
intelligence and progression.
	In taking our review of the poet's ideal
woman, we will begin with the grand old
Hebrew writer, Solomon; a man of peace, de-
voted to the interests of literature, art, and all
the refining qualities of a highly civilized so-
ciety, devoted too, if the number and variety
of his female associates be taken as a guide to
the charms peculiar to our sex. In his last
Chapter of Proverbs, he gives us a most strik-
ing picture of his ideal woman. As no words
of mine could be half so telling in their sim-
plicity and power as his own, I shall quote
him verbatim, even at the risk of being con-
sidered prosy by those who are perhaps
familiar with his words.
	Beginning with that which is a woman's life,
he says:—
	"Who can find a virtuous woman for her
price is far above rubies?
	The heart of her husband doth safely trust
in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.
	She will do him good, and not evil, all the
days of her life."
	Leaving this he turns to her industrial 
qualities:
	"She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh
willingly with her hands.
	She is like the merchants ships she bringeth
her food from afar.
	She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth
meat to her household, and a portion to her
maidens."
	Of her business ability he makes mention.
	"She considered a field, and buyeth it;
with the fruit of her hands she planteth a
vineyard.
	She girdeth her loins with strength, and
strengtheneth her arms.
	She perceiveth that her merchandise is good;
