[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS DISPLAY. 
	The City always presents a gay appearance at
holiday time, and this year is not an exception to
the rule, although money is scarce, goods of all
kinds are abundant and of the greatest variety
imaginable, and evergreen trees on the street for
sale make the showing of Christmas near at hand.
The weather is not very cold and there is not
enough snow to make the mountains and valley
look really wintry enough to be as beautiful as
when it wraps its clear white mantle over all.
	The old reliable Art Gallery of C. R. Savage
comes out with its usual and unusual assortment
of pictures, of almost every variety and a novel
sign to attract attention “The New Wonderland
etc.” At this store one may find almost every-
thing to decorate for the holidays, also many
substantial articles suitable for presents in quantity
and quality to please all sorts of fancies. Mr.
Savage keeps painting and drawing materials,
books of almost all kinds, for old and young.
In photography in every style, this establish-
ment is par excellence. It is quite famous for its
views of scenery, not only of Utah but Southern
California and other interesting places.
	D. M. Mc’Allister at the Utah Book and
Stationery Store, though not so long in the busi-
ness has spared no pains in making his place at-
tractive, and he has succeeded admirably in that
respect. His windows are quite a show for the
general public and attract large crowds daily and
especially in the evening when brilliantly lighted.
Books to suit the popular taste maybe found here
as also classical works of poetry and prose and
all the various kinds and qualities of goods that
are kept in much larger stores. He seems to have
a good faculty of economizing space. Up stairs
where the finest goods are kept, the room is taste-
fully and elaborately decorated. Chinese and
Japanese fancy umbrellas, lanterns and trinkets
being used along with the regular Christmas deco-
rations.
	The China hand painted ornaments and colored
pictures and photographs are very artistic. Miss
Kate Wells’ work being particularly good ;in this
branch of coloring pictures, either in figures,
flowers or scenes, Miss Wells does specially fine
work. Mc’Allister’s is one of the most attractive
places in the City. Books of home production
are also kept on sale at Mc’Allisters’; those of
Alfred Lambourne’s being  very artistic and at-
tractive.
	The Woman’s Co-operative Institution has a
very good assortment of holiday goods, both use
tul and ornamental, as well as dolls and a variety
of toys. Mrs. Goddard who has charge of. the
store has been accustomed to handling fancy
goods, materials for embroideries, silk and
worsted work, and is well adapted to this depart-
ment of the business, as also in handling ladies’
dress materials and trimmings. The store is well
supplied with millinery goods and employs a first-
class milliner and dressmaker. Ladies interested
in woman’s co operative industries should be sure
and examine the stock in this Store before buying
elsewhere.
	Margett’s Bros, have a fine display in the Con-
stitution Building they keep everything in the
Book and Stationery line, all the latest and best
magazines, journals and periodicals, as well as
the daily papers of this City, and Eastern and
Pacific Coast. Their store is a very large one
and abundantly supplied. They make a specialty
of toys also and of everything in the line. They
keep all the finest qualities and grades of paper
both American and foreign, and their window is
one of the finest in town in its arrangement, a
fire burning in a miniature fire-place looks very
home like and cheerful to the passing crowds.
	James Dwyer who always understood how to
suit the popular taste as well as to cater to par-
ticular “fads”in the book and variety article line
has opened a florist’s establishment on Main
Street in one of the Daynes windows and there is
nothing more tempting on the Street than the dis-
play he is making of flowers for the Christmas
time. Roses, and lilies of several varieties and
various other kinds of flowers delight the eye
and feast the soul of the lover of beauty in bud
and blossom. The rarity of flowers at this sea-
son of the year make us all the more apprecia-
tive of the gladdening sight.
	The Z. C. M. I. has outdone itself almost, in
its display of goods and fancy groceries, and
other stores, especially Teasdel’s which always
makes a conspicuous and attractive display at holi-
day time, and also shops have made the most of
the space they occupy and their room for display.
The meat markets always decorate with ever-
green, and dress their meats and fowls to make
them as tempting as possible.
	R. K. Thomas on 1st South St., deals in heavy
merchandise as well as a variety of fancy goods,
has a splendid faculty of showing his stock in
trade to advantage, he has always taken immense
pains to gratify the taste of the public for the
beautiful in the arrangement of his wares, and a
more genial business gentleman cannot be found.
He has been accustomed all his life to the hand-
ling and disposing of dry goods, silks, shawls,
ribbons and laces etc., and in this line of pleas-
ing his patrons he assuredly excels,
	Johnson and and Pratt in the Constitution
Building have not only an elaborate display of
drug goods etc., but also of fancy articles in
glass and silver, and other varieties.
	Hardy and Young in the same building have
made their windows very attractive indeed and
their groceries are very tempting, they also keep
a variety of other goods.
	Barnes and Lewis though carrying mostly very
heavy merchandise generally, have also made a
Christmas display, but time would fail to “tell it
all."
	The Juvenile Instructor have fitted up their

[Column 3]
windows quite handsomely; they have a great
variety of good books, keep all the Church works,
and home literary productions in the best quality
of paper and binding, as well as the cheaper
varieties, so that their prices may accommodate
all purchasers. They keep the best supply of
Sunday School literature and prize cards, report
books for these institutions and all the variety of
stationery; albums and a large assortment of
articles suitable for Christmas gifts, and dolls and
toys in great abundance. There is no better
quality of goods of the kind than at the Juvenile
Office for Sunday School and Association pur-
poses. The new store gives them ample room to
make the place an attractive one for customers,
and they are always attentive and obliging in
showing goods.


