"A GREEN TEA" PARTY.

	Mrs. Priscilla Jennings of this city gave "A
Green Tea" to a party of ladies, at her residence,
Thursday Dec. 3. The invitations were issued
for 4 p.m. The house was profusely decorated
with vines and flowers; the fragrance of the roses
lilies, hyacinths and carnations with the pleasant
warmth of the rooms was suggestive of a tropical
clime, but bright wood fires were burning in the
open grates, which made the picture more illusive.
The view from the house which is picturesquely
situated on the hill above the street was more
wintry however and indicated the approach of
Winter in the valley.
	After the cordial welcome of the hostess and
the greetings of friends the ladies were seated at
tables arranged tete a tete, and here again was a
display of green ribbons for each guest as well as
the trailing smilax; the flowers that adorned the
tables gave zest to the delicious viands, and a
sweet and particularly pleasing tone to the enter-
tainment.
	Of the repast it is needless to say that everyone


enjoyed it, and the flow of general conversation
through the rooms was spirited and enlivening.
When the guests rose from the table they wore
their green ribbons, a pretty idea of remembrance
of the day. Some exquisite music by the young
ladies afterwards, gave a still more elevating tone
to the unique gathering, and a feeling of restful-
ness which is always pleasant in social parties.
	Mrs. Jennings presented each of the ladies with
a beautiful bouquet of flowers, roses, etc. After
some further conversational enjoyment, the party
reluctantly dispersed. Mrs. Jennings is a most
genial and agreeable hostess. She has been
much accustomed to this sort of thing, as in her
husband's lifetime (the Hon. Wm. Jennings) they
gave many large parties, and always entertained
in some such way the distinguished people who
visited Utah, the Presidents of the United States
and Senators, Generals and people of rank and
note.
	At the tea party at the Jennings house on this
occasion perhaps the most distinguished woman at
any rate by age was Sister Presendia L. Kimball,
whose four score years and more have brought
wisdom and understanding to her spiritual nature
which surpasses the learning of the world. She
is very large and dignified, stately one might say,
and her complexion fair as a lily, her soft white
hair falls around a face beaming with the intelli-
gence that looks out of the soul. Of other
veteran sisters there were M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane B.
Taylor and Jane S. Richards, who are entitled to
the rank of Mothers in Israel.


