EMILY HAMILTON’S CHRISTMAS.

“Tell me my dear mamma, what can we do
this year for Christmas, something new and
odd, I’m so tired of the same humdrum way
of celebrating, with a Christmas tree for the
children, and no amusement except having a
lot of one’s relatives to dinner, whom one
never sees except on special occasions, when
they come to be entertained, with eating and
drinking, and telling the same old stories each
year?”
	“Well Emily are you through, finding fault
with our homely ways? And by the bye, what
would you propose for the children in place of
a Christmas tree?” “O almost anything, a
dancing party for instance, then we young folks
could enjoy it.”
	“But my daughter do you know what it
would take to get up a party, and our circum-
stances this year are only very moderate, and
Frank in college?’
	“O, it wouldn’t be so very expensive, and
Frank will be at home, and we shall want a
change for him.”
	“Frank will be glad to see the children hav-
ing a good time, and he wants rest more than
dissipation, I’m inclined to think from his
letters that he will be quite satisfied with our
common village pastimes, and meeting his old
friends in a social way without any extra ex-
pense; besides Emily, your father is not in the
best health or spirits, money is scarce, and he
objects to any lavish expenditure of means, we
have the little one’s future to think of; remem-
ber what it has cost to give you the advantages
you have had these last two or three years.”
	“But mamma, don’t be always bringing up
what everything costs, it makes me feel un- 
comfortable, I guess papa is just as likely to
make more money; his business is all right,
he’s the richest man in town, everybody knows
that, the girls at school knew well enough that
I could afford to dress differently, and I often
felt as if I would like to tell them, that you
didn’t believe in living up to our income, be- 
cause we had a large family.”
	“Emily,” said the mother, “your father has
been a very careful man, and does not believe
in extravagance, he would not approve of your
manner of speaking of his wealth either, he
never makes any boast of it. I am astonished
that you should mention it in such a way; one
would think you would have more discretion
at your age, I should not like the younger
children especially Bessie to hear you talk as
you are doing now; I can’t understand what
has made you so dissatisfied.”
	Emily sat silently and looked into the fire;
she felt uncomfortable, she was restless and
fancied herself very unhappy, she had only
recently returned from a very popular girls’
seminary, where she had been associated with
young ladies who prided themselves more upon
their personal charms, than their sterling worth,

[Column 2]
and she had heard so much of the style and
elegance of palatial residences in the City that
when she returned to the simple country home
from which she had gone forth so free and
happy, it seemed such a dreary place, and the
people with whom she had been wont to asso-
ciate with their plain apparel, did not look the
same to her, as they had before and it made
her feel almost wicked. The fact was she had
seen the outside glitter and show only, and had
not gone deep enough into the matter to find
that “All is not gold that glitters.”
	Miss Hamilton was young and beautiful,
and life seemed to her a vision of loveliness,
she had been the favored one at home, and the
first and choicest of everything was always
her’s from father and mother and brother, and
even the relatives of whom she had spoken so
slightingly were her admirers generally. Her
grandma “just adored her,” according to her
version of the matter, and now she had come
back so accomplished and they all so proud
of her, yet she was scarce willing to be ami-
able with them. Emily Hamilton like a great
many other young girls imagined she knew
more than her mother and grandmother, who
though very well-meaning had not had the op-
portunities of a higher education, which she
fancied made the difference. This was all a
mistake on her part, for it was not the real
knowledge that had given her these false ideas
of life, but simply the dazzling effect of the
companionship of girls whose home training
had been totally neglected, whose mothers
lived for society and expected their daughters
to make brilliant matches in high life.
	Emily's mother was a very sensible woman,
who loved her home and whose virtues were
of the purest type. She had no idea of the
change in her daughter until after she left
school, or she would have vastly preferred to
have kept her nearer home, where she could
have been under her own influence ana watch-
care.
	Somehow Emily had not the courage to
press the question of a party any further then,
but determined in her own mind to have a
change in the family routine at Christmas time
which was very near. The mother was very
thoughtful after, and she also resolved that she
would speak to her husband the first oppor-
tunity, about Emily, the change in her, and
together perhaps they might make an impres-
sion upon her that would have a good effect.
	When Mr. Hamilton came in as usual to-
wards evening, he noticed that his wife was
not so cheerful as usual and Emily was very
cool; without pretending to have observed it
he asked for some music, or “is the dinner
ready? if so we’ll have a song afterwards, said he
his face beaming with love, as he laid his hand
caressingly upon Emily’s shining hair. It is
so pleasant to have you in your old place again,
I never mean Bessie shall stay away from us
as you have, and there will be no occasion for
it, for you will be able to teach her here at
home.” “But papa, I can’t teach, I have not
qualified myself for teaching.” “O, not in a
school, I don’t mean that exactly, but you’ll
superintend, and help your mother, she has her
hands full with so many.”
Emily scarcely knew what to say, but she
began to feel it was more than she was pre-
pared to undertake. She was thinking of a
winter of pleasure, and herein was discontent,
immediately on her return.
	Dinner was announced and although the
father was unusually cheerful, the conversa-
tion lagged. Emily had not expressed a de-
sire to comply with his request, to sing, and
after their return to the parlor, he waited as
if in anticipation before asking again. She
sat moodily folding her hands idly and toying
with her rings, finally Mr. H. broke the
[Continued on page 94.]


