EMILY HAMILTON'S CHRISTMAS.

			[Concluded.]
silence, "Will you sing for me Emily, or is 
anything wrong here tonight?"
   "No, papa only I'm out of sorts, I guess I've 
got the blues,' mamma thinks I'm disagreeable
I've offended her by speaking about the
Christmas, you know, and papa I don't see
why we should always do quite the same things
in the same way just as they did a hundred
years ago?"
   Mr. Hamilton laughed, "a hundred years ago
no, I don't think we do just the same, why
Emily a hundred years ago your grandmother
was not born. No, I rather think if you were
put back a hundred years you would find
quite a difference. Not so many dainty ele-
gances as you girls have nowadays, why your
great grandmother who lived a hundred years
ago, rode through the woods to parties on a
pillion instead of in a luxurious, satin-lined
carriage. As for Christmas I don't think they had
any, Thanksgiving and New Year's were the
holidays in winter,but suppose you sing for me,
an old-fashioned song, I like old tunes and old
songs, and I'm not over fond of new-fangled
things nor ways either for that matter." After 
a little more in the same strain Emily sang
and her voice so full of melody, clear as a bell,
soothed her mother, as well as quieted even
her own rebellious spirit. Such is ever the
power of music over the human heart. When
she had gone over the list of her father's
favorite pieces, she came and put her arms
around his neck and coaxingly said, "come
papa what about a Christmas party?"
   "Supposing we consented your mother and I
to have this party, whom would you invite?"
Don't you know how disappointed all our
folks would be who've been in the habit of
coming here regularly for so many years?
    "To begin with papa Frank will bring one
of his college friends, I wrote to him to invite
his favorite companion," "O, I see Emily you
have arranged for a partner!" "Then we must
invite the young people that we have always
associated with I suppose, though there are
some of them very ordinary, and I don't sup-
pose they know how to get through any of the
new style dances."
   "Which of the families do you object to, or 
is it the young folks only, who are so objec-
tionable?" "Papa I didn't say I objected, not
exactly; there are not many to choose from,
and they, or at least the young men all voted
for your election to office, and I must be
gracious on that account, I don't think I care
much for any of them, but Harry Montague
has been very polite to me and in every way
possible has shown me marked attention since
I came home; we used to be very fond of each
other when we were children; he always helped
me over the brooks, and lifted me down out of
the trees, and gave me the largest berries when
we went out blackberrying." "Then you do
mean to include him," said her father, "shall
we make a list, taking notebook and pencil
from his pocket and writing; "Frank Hamil
ton's friend, Harry Montague, who next?"
Emily felt nettled, she did not quite like to be
subjected to such scrutiny, and to put an end
to it turned to her mother and asked her
opinion about the invitations. Mrs. Hamilton
quietly remarked, "it is your party child and
I cannot think of making suggestions," and
then as though to conciliate her a little said, 
"you know the girls and boys, two years has
not made many changes, only one or two have
gone away, you are aware of that, Harry might
help you or his sister Susie, she's a very lady-
like girl you'll not object to her as she is
Harry's sister."
   A little more of this sort of banter, and
Emily began to feel as if she would like to
give it up, but then she imagined herself help-

[Column 2]
ing to wait upon the aunts, uncles and cousins
and far off relatives and connections and she
took fresh courage. That night when alone
she consoled herself by thinking, she had been
punished for her perseverity, and that she ought
to have the party any way.
   "After all what does it matter about all
those people, who only come when they know
there's a fine dinner, papa could send them
each a present, I'll ask him," then she hesi-
tated. "No, the party will be more expensive,
there's the music, and lots of extras, no I can't 
ask him for anything more, except 1 must
have a new dress, and wondering whether he
really intended she should give the party she
fell asleep.
   Meanwhile Mrs. Hamilton had opened her
heart to her husband, after the little ones had
all been put to bed, and they decided that
Emily should give the party, and have her
own way about inviting, and see if it would
prove more pleasant for her in the realization
than the family dinner. So Emily was al-
lowed full liberty to proceed with the details.
    A few days after these occurrences, Emily's 
grandmother paid them a visit, she lived a
little distance away, and had not seen Emily
for some time. She was very sweet-mannered
and Emily had formerly been very fond of her,
but she saw the difference in her favorite's man-
ner and deplored it very much; she spoke
freely to her son on the subject and asked him
if he could countenance such hauteur under
his own roof. "Why" said the old lady ,"she
will not be a credit to you, or her mother
either, her pride is insufferable, what good is
all her French, and German, and music and
China painting, when she hasn't a kind word
for any of her old friends?" More in the
same strain, the elder Mrs. Hamilton poured
into her son's unwilling ears, he was ambitious
that his daughter should do well, in fact excel,
but he despised ostentation, and he knew his 
mother's view of the case, would be the one
others would take outside his own family.
   Emily's grandmother spoke very plainly to
her on several occasions, and cautioned her
against being so brusque, with the people who
called; most of them really out of respect for
her home-coming.
   "O, grandma you make me weary, I never
can do what you wish, what are all these
village people to me, I don't mean to be one
of them, I intend to go abroad and marry
some rich foreigner." "Some one with a title,
but without either money or brains I suppose,
and how do you propose to manage after
marriage? people have to live you know, there
are some things that can be dispensed with
but not the bread and butter." "I haven't 
got so far as that grandma, he hasn't put in
an appearance yet in any shape, but I dreamed
of him the other night and when I see him
I shall know him at once." "Worse and
worse child, and then when you see him and
know who he is, as you say, you'll go right up
to him and embrace him doubtless, and tell
him your dream and the wild tale of your love
and waiting?" "No grandma I'm not quite
that foolish, but I know lots of girls do marry
foreigners (I prefer Germans) and they travel
and see the world, one of our girls at school, a
special friend of mine, Fanny Osmond, fell in
love with a Count, and ran away from school,
and they were married, and her mamma was
sent for, and she took her home and forgave
her after awhile, and O, there's ever so much
more of the story only you wouldn't approve 
of it, so I'll not tell you about it."
   "No, Emily I don't approve of runaway
marriages in any case, and the sooner you dis-
card all such nonsense the better for you,and all
with whom you are connected; put all such
notions away from you, and marry some good
young man, whose integrity of character and

[Column 3]
uprightness is well established and you will
have more home-happiness depend upon it."
   The days went by and preparations for quite
a grand party were in progress. Invitations
were sent out and the affair made quite a stir
in the town for such elaborate parties were not
often given in the vicinity except on wedding
occasions. Frank returned from college, and
was quite surprised with the news of a grand
ball. His friend came a few days after, for
Frank wanted to know whether his mother
could arrange for a guest, before he made the
invitation binding. Emily was delighted when
she learned that he was quite an accomplished
young man, and that the coming year would
finish his college course, and he would begin
life as an Attorney at Law. Frank had in-
formed her that his father was wealthy, and
would set him up well,and he would not have to
begin with nothing but a bare office and a few
law books as so many young men do.
     Evergreen trees and vines and scarlet berries
were brought from the woods to decorate the
rooms for the coming event. The hot house
too was robbed of its choicest lilies and plants
for the time being and the trailing smilax
graced and beautified the elegant rooms.
Everything bespoke splendor and luxury.
   Frank's friend had arrived and been intro-
duced and made quite a sensation, both Emily
and her sister Bessie 'fell in love with him at
first sight,' as they termed it, and Mrs. Hamil-
ton herself could not help admiring his genial
and polished manner; Fred Boutwell was a
favorite everywhere, one of those men who al-
ways shine in a crowd, he was the life of any
company, his musical talent and fine baritone
voice were great attractions. He played and
sung and whistled, handled the guitar and
banjo with perfect ease like a real troubadour,
the piano keys were magical to his touch.  In
fact Emily almost wished that she had not sent
out her invitations for she enjoyed his society
so much, that she felt other girls would be an
intrusion. Emily Hamilton was intensely
selfish and wanted now to have this fine young
man devote himself exclusively to entertaining
her.  But it was too late now and Fred unlike
Frank Hamilton liked a crowd. He could 
amuse and interest a dozen girls as well as one
and enjoyed the fun very much better.
    After the first day or two at the Hamilton
home, he showed signs of restlessness; he was
accustomed to the City and when he talked of
New York and the gaiety of the season there,
he made Emily feel that he was sacrificing a
great deal to spend Christmas week there. She
longed for the city life he described so glow-
ingly, and the house though teeming with
everthing to make it a delightful place of en-
joyment, looked simple and homely compared
to the pictures Fred drew of the elegant
mansions in New York City. It lessened her
enthusiasm considerably about the party, and
some way whenever she was alone even for a
few minutes, she felt gloomy and sad.  The
elder Mrs. Hamilton was an observant person,
and not being engrossed with care like the
younger Mrs. H. had a good opportunity to
notice the change in Emily's manner. She
was well aware of the cause, for she had seen
much of life and could weigh and balance
character, was a good judge of appearances,
and had seldom been deceived in her estimate
of people. She had looked upon Fred with
suspicion from the first and felt sorry too, but
Frank was so ingenuous and unsuspecting
that he was likely enough to be deceived. Mr.
Hamilton was so absorbed in his business that
he had little time to spend at home except to
eat and sleep there; public duties occupied his
time to the entire exclusion almost of domestic
felicity.
	Christmas Eve came at last and with it a
heavy snow storm; it had snowed all day and
the sleigh bells were jingling merrily, the


