[Column 1]

	He forgets not charity, that characteristic
so essential in either sex.
	"She stretcheth out her hand to the poor;
yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
	She is not afraid of the snow for her house-
hold; for all her household are clothed with
scarlet."
	She is not without pride of her good looks
for he tells us—
	She maketh herself coverings of tapestry;
her clothing is silk and purple."
	The same rule must hold good as to her
family, for—
	Her husband is known in the gates, when
he sitteth among the elders of the land.
	She maketh fine linen, and selleth it, and
delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
	Strength and honor are her clothing, and
she shall rejoice in time to come."
	Among the best of her qualities are these:—
	"She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and
in her tongue is the law of kindness.
	She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness."
	Happily for her, she receives the meed of
appreciation, for—
	"Her children arise up and call her blessed;
her husband also, and he praiseth her.
	Many daughters have done virtuously, but
thou excellest them all.
	Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but
a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be
praised.
	Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let
her own works praise her in the gates."
	From this picture of industry, frugality, and
piety, if we take a stride to the early Greek
maids and matrons, we will perhaps find less
of domestic industry, but more of blind de-
votion to the opposite sex.
	Honor and virtue are still highly eulogized
but while man is gradually assuming the hero
and protector, woman is losing the heroic,
and sinking to the level of a dependent, or
rather a choice bit of property, to beguarded,
shielded with jealous care, but not to be ad-
mitted to his confidence or counsels as an
equal. Helen of Troy would perhaps be as
good a representative of this type of woman
as has been handed down to us, were it not for
the fact of her domestic perfidy.
	Homer gives us however in a few succinct
words, the status of woman in those days,

	"What calls for vengeance but a woman's cause?
	Are fair endowments and a beauteous face
	Beloved by none but those of Atreus' race?
	The wife whom choice and passion doth approve,
	Sure every wise and worthy man doth love.’"

	The bard of Avon in his magnificent char-
acter of Portia, gives us a striking picture of
the higher Roman woman.
	High-minded as evinced by such thoughts
as these:
	"If to do were as easy as to know what were
good to do, chapels had been churches, and
poor men's cottages princes' palaces. It is a
good divine that follows his own instructions;
I can easier teach twenty what were good to be
done, than be one of the twenty to follow mine
own teaching."
	Obedient where she felt it due, as is shown
by the following:—
	"If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die
as chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the
manner of my father's will."
	Honorable where she says to him who holds
her heart's best feelings:
	"I could teach you how to choose right, but
I am then forsworn; so will I never be."
	Tender and yielding enough under circum-
stances calling for the exhibition of those
qualities, yet strong to do and dare when neces-
sity demands as is shown in the trial scene.

[Column 2]

	Of all the heroines of the poets methinks
Portia approaches the nearest to the ideal
woman of our own time and race.
	Tennyson has given us a number of views of
the woman of feudal times, yet they do not ap-
proach the high mental and moral standard of
a Portia. Again they are found occupying
the position of the choice bit of property, with
their individuality entirely absorbed in that
of their husbands.
	In the early history of our own America,
the standard of woman again approaches that
of the patriarchal age portrayed by Solomon.
Longfellow of all American poets the peer, has
much to say about woman.
	One of his most familiar and characteristic
thoughts being that which occurs in his Hia-
watha:

	"As unto the bow the cord is,
	So unto the man is woman,
	Though she bends him, she obey him.
	Though she draws him, yet she follows.
	Useless each without the other.

	The following description of Priscilla the
Puritan Maiden, in his Courtship of Miles
Standish, brings forcibly to our minds the
thrifty ideal of Solomon:

"Then, as he opened the door, he beheld the form of the
	maiden,
Seated beside her wheel, and the carded wool like a snow-
	drift
Piled at her knee, her white hands feeding the ravenous
	spindle;
While with her foot on the treadle, she guided the wheel
	in its motion.

Making the humble house and the modest apparel of home-
	spun
Beautiful with her beauty, and rich with the wealth of her
	being."

	A heroine of a little different order yet still
partaking of the biblical character is Evange-
line.

"Fair was she to behold, that maiden of seventeen sum-
	mers.
Black were her eyes as the berry that grows on the thorn
	by the wayside.
Black, yet how softly they gleamed, beneath the brown
	shade of her tresses!
Sweet was her breath as the breath of kine that feed in the
	meadows.
When in the harvest heat she bore to the reapers at noon-
	tide
Flagons of home-brewed ale, ah! fair in sooth was the
	maiden,
Fairer was she when, on Sunday morn, while the bell from
	the turret
Sprinkled with holy sounds the air, as the priest with his
	hyssop,
Sprinkles the congregation, and scatters blessings upon
	them,
Down the long street she passed, with her chaplet of beads
	and her missal,
Wearing her Norman cap, and her kirtle of blue, and the
	ear-rings,
Brought in olden the time from France, and since, as an
	heirloom
Handed down from mother to child through long genera-
	tions.
But a celestial brightness—a more ethereal beauty—
Shone on her face and encircled her form, when after
	confession,
Homeward serenely she walked, with God's benediction
	upon her,
When she had passed, it seemed like the ceasing of ex-
	quisite music."

	So generally have the poet's written about
woman, that she may almost be called the
"Poets Inspiration," yet to review a hundredth
part of them would be to make an article too
long for an occasion like the present.
	It is for us to assist in raising the standard
of the ideal woman of the future, and then,

[Column 3]

not to leave her simply as an ideal, indefinite
and unapproachable, but to make of her a
living, breathing entity, and ourselves her law-
ful and fitting representatives.
			J. A. MACDONALD.
	Nov. 30th, 1891.


