News.
	The Woman’s Recorder, of Toledo, Ohio,
says: “The State is experiencing a boom in the

[column 2]
work for school suffrage, which draws to it the
most conservative women and men of the
State. We can all unite upon school suffrage.”
	Mrs. Mary Frost Ormsby, of New York
city is a delegate from the United States to
the Universal Peace Congress held in Rome
this month.
	There are half a million Mohammedans in
Austria, and their women will receive only
women physicians. This has led the Austrian
minister of finance to recommend to the gov-
ernment that women be allowed to practise
medicine generally.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer addressed several as-
semblages of ladies in New York City last
week, and was instrumental in having com-
mittees of women organized for beginning
active work for the World’s Fair. In addition
to securing a practical exhibit of the in-
dustrial, educational and ethical work carried
on by women, an effort will be made to have
women appointed on the State Board of Fair
Commissioners for New York, and to have a
portion of the State appropriation assigned to
them.
	Mrs. Electra E. Smith, has been chosen vice-
president of the Illinois Republican Associa-
tion in Washington. This is one of the
largest State political organizations, made up
mainly of government clerks and office-holders
at the capital. Mrs. Smith was for eight years
postmistress at Sterling, III., having received
her commission from General Grant, and is at
present assistant chief in the sixth auditor’s
office. She is well known in charitable and
society circles in Washington.
	Miss Alice Rideout of San Franci co has
been awarded the first prize in the competition
of women sculptors for the attic and cornice of
the women’s World’s Fair building. The re-
ward carries with it a contract for the execu-
tion of full-sized models of the groups at a
price from $1500 to $2500 for the divans and
from $2000 to $3200 for the great forty-foot
panel.
	The successful competitor is not yet out of
her teens. She has made modeling and
sculpture a study from childhood. Three
groups of figures represent respectively “Wo-
man’s Virtues,” “Woman as the Spirit of Civi-
lization,” and “Woman’s Place in History.”
	Miss Rideout has already done some very
noteworthy work. Her last success is more re-
markable as a number of older and more ex-
perienced sculptors were among her compe-
titors, but her designs were in advance of all
others.


