INTERESTING LETTER.

	    New Mexico, 
		     Nov. 30, 1891.
DEAR SISTER:
	I have not forgotten you, nor any of my old
friends in Utah beloved home of childhood;
though my long silence would imply this.
Another year fraught with many blessings,
cares and perplexities has flown. The Summer
and Autumn have been beautiful seasons in-
deed, and though the labor enforced by a rich
fruit crop has been arduous we are very grate-
ful for the tender mercies of an Alwise
Father.
	We have just returned from Mancos, Colo-
rado, where we attended the quarterly confer-
ence. Our spirits were richly fed by the teach-
ings of Apostle Lyman and the Presidency of
the Stake. Surely we all resolved many times
over we would be better men and women than
ever before. God help us one and all to carry
out in our future lives the counsel we there
heard.
	It is a lovely Sabbath day in our quiet home.
The important member of the family has gone
to visit La Platta, the principal part of this
ward and a distance of 14 miles. There are
only three families of our faith at Fruitland,
so meetings are seldom held, yet we have tried
to maintain the Sunday School whenever the
brethren are at home, as we are so few. The
different associations have almost been lost
sight of which all much regret. The sisters
in this little ward have done all they could
and taken an interest in the societies as long
as there was any possibility of keeping them
in working order. We have been led to be-
lieve some of the leading sisters were going to
visit us after the October Conference. We
were much elated and consequently sorely dis-
appointed, but now have settled down to the
inevitable and are as hopefully waiting till
Spring trusting we may not wait in vain.
	Those who are constantly privileged to listen
to the voices of God's authorized servants and
drink in the very spirit of His word can never
fully understand how the soul longs for such
heavenly blessings when for years deprived of
them. Yet we are assured through all that
God will draw very near unto us, if we are
true to him and do we not in such trying
times need his spirit for a constant guide?
	Oh how great would our joy be if we were
not so prone to wander in paths where His
light cannot follow. What is more terrible
than darkness of mind? God pity and help
us my sisters all, to keep above those awful
depths of despair that the unbelieving sink
into.
	We enjoy the papers as much as ever and
trust they may ever flourish. Love and kind
wishes for all our dear sisters in Zion, and
ever praying to be one with you in all good
works, I am as ever your sister,
