	CHRISTMAS TIME.

	Dear old Santa Claus and the blessed Christ-
mas are always welcome; they bring peace and
good will the message of the angels. Joy and
gladness to the lowliest cot and the humblest
household. The Savior’s mission meant as much
and was as effectual to the poor as to the rich,
salvation to all who receive it, and walk in his
footsteps; and so down through the ages ring the
glorious words peace and good-will on earth, and
this is what we hear in the intonation when the
bells ring on Christmas morn. Joy to the world
for a Savior is born.
	“That to the cottage as the crown
	Brought tidings of salvation down ’’
	All over the glorious land wherever Christ’s
message has been proclaimed is this day observed
with festive celebration, as well as religious cere-
mony. In England perhaps more than any other
country the day is honored appropriately by be-
stowing gifts upon the poor. The rich who are
parsimonious even, seldom fail to remember the
poor on Christmas, this is proverbial, and the
custom is fast gaining ground in America. It is
good for the rich whose coffers overflow, to re-
member those who are not so highly favored by
the fickle goddess fortune; and it is also good for
all whatever their worldly circumstances may be
to remember those around them, who may not be
so pleasantly situated as themselves, or even
though they are, it is comforting to any of us to
know that there are others who feel in sympathy
with us, and show kindly feeling even once a
year. It is at any rate a good thing to look
around and see, if there is not some goodly way
in which one can render assistance or bestow a
favor or a blessing upon a brother or sister (for we
are all brothers and sisters, children of the same
heavenly parent) in some delicate manner that
will elevate and ennoble the giver and happify
the receiver.
	“The poor ye have always with you,” our
Savior said on one occasion, and it is verily so,
for if there are none who lack food and raiment,
there are those who are poorer still, who have
sorrows that call for kindness and sympathy.
And to the sorrowing and the mourner, what
more blessed boon than that of love and friend-
ship. That charity that is more than the giving
of alms.
	But one should not dwell upon the dark and
gloomy side of life at Christmas time, but present
the gay and brilliant, the bright and cheerful at
any rate—there should at least be a time of rejoic-
ing now and then,for the world is full pf sorrows,
and the blessed remembrance of a loving Savior’s
birth, should bring with it a feeling of joy and
pleasure to every human heart, a foretaste of
heaven where He dwells and where all may enter
who follow in his footsteps.

[Column 2]
	The people who dwell in these mountain vales
have much to be grateful for even though they
have some things not so agreeable. The children
for instance, their playhouses overflow on Christ-
mas day, Santa Claus has been very lavish in his
regular supplies for the last few years, and our
children of the present know very little of what
the generation now grown up experienced in the
early years in these valleys. Some of the many
little stockings that were hung up around the
primitive fire places were very scantily filled and
others perhaps not at all. The mothers in those
days didn’t go out looking for Santa Claus, but
many an earnest and heartfelt prayer was offered
with tearful eyes and sorrowing heart, that the
little ones might be happy and contented on
Christmas day with what little it was possible to
bestow.
	Mothers often studied long and hard over these
little things that are settled now without the least
difficulty; rag dolls in those days filled the place
of the “regular beauties" we hear of so often now,
and cakes and candy made with molasses were
much more common than with sugar, for if we had
sugar in those days we paid an enormous price
for it, and it was rarely used for cake. But the
children were as happy as though they had all
the goodies in the world, and there was not nearly
so much sickness. Plain food is always best for
children, and many of them now adays eat far too
much pastry and sweetmeats.
	There are other things to do on Christmas day
besides eating and drinking,and the little children
are as capable of bestowing good gifts and mak-
ing acceptable the good cheer as older people—
sometimes even more so. Home should be a sort
of sanctuary at such times where love sits at the
feast and sweetens every dish partaken of. Chil-
dren can make the heart of father and mother
gladder than all earthly blessings. Indeed
Christmas seems a day for children, for Christ
was once a babe, and his birth was lowly; He
came not to a lordly mansion but in a stable
though he was king of all.
	There are so many beautiful books for children
now—so much done for them in every way, and
on every day, that it seems almost impossible to
make Christmas even a holiday, But if they can
do something themselves, can divide of their own
with another, can cheer some one’s heart who is
sick and lonely,or in sorrow, can speak kind and
loving words at home, cheer up the home,
brighten the faces of those around them with
gracious and graceful acknowledgements of kind-
ness and love shown to them, these little things
will be remembered more than the costliest gifts
or the daintiest luxury.
	Our sisters who are young women now and
recollect those childish days, could tell many
pleasing tales of their own experience at those
well-remembered times, and it would be very
pleasant if they would write them up for the home
papers, that the children of today might have
more  true stories to read and less idle trash, than
is usually the case. Children are always anxious
to know if a story is true, and truth is always
more acceptable, and makes a better impression;
and good and lasting impressions made early in
life are the sure foundations of character. Any
story well told will live, a true description of
scenes and incidents lives in history and becomes
a part of history itself.
	Now that the history of Utah is to be written
how anxious we all feel that it should be not only
interesting, but should give the true idea of the
early times of the people here. Their merry-
making, their festivities, as well as the soberer
and more adventurous part of their former life.
	Sir Walter Scott in his poem of Marmion has
given a pen picture of Christmas in the olden
time in Scotland and the British Isles that any
one can almost see it over again when reading it,
so intensely real has he made it. It has been used

[Column 3]
to illustrate fireside pictures in Holiday books
over and over again and it will last while the
English language is spoken. It is only three
paragraphs but tells so much in such a wonderful
way. Here are a few lines that cannot be mis-
taken in their meaning.
		“Heap on more wood!—the wind is chill .
		But let it whistle as it will'
		We’ll keep our Christmas merry still,
	And again he says:
		The fire with well-dried logs supplied,
		Went roaring up the chimney wide;
		The huge hall-table's oaken face 
		Scrubbed till it shone the day to grace,
		Bore then upon its massive board
		No mark to part the squire and lord.
		Then was brought tn the lusty brown,
		By old blue-coated serving man
		Then the grim boar’s head frowned on high
		Crested with bays and rosemary.
		Well can the green-garbed ranger tell,
		How when and where the monster fell;
		What dogs before his death he tore,
		And all the baiting of the boar.
		The wassel round in good brown bowls.
		Garnished with ribbons, blithely trowls.
		There the huge sirloin reeked hard by
		Plum, porridge stood, and Christmas pie;
		Nor failed old Scotland to produce.
		At such high-tide her savoury goose.
	He also tells us of savage tribes in those olden
times, with what festivity they made merry.
	The pioneers here could tell some delightful
things of festive and social amusements, simple
perchance but nevertheless interesting. It may
be the days are not far enough removed as yet,
for everything old is the fashion nowadays, a few
years later these tales may be more acceptable
than they would be even now, but who will be
able to tell them as well. Our own newspapers,
magazines and children’s books ought to abound
with stories, poems, dialogues and dramas from
the experience of our own people, not to same-
ness, but at least well sprinkled in,that the history
written hereafter may have plenty, of matter to
make a rich variety.
	The songs of a people or a nation are always in-
dicative of their character and lives, and have
lived long after the nation in many instances; so
should this people have a history in poetry as
well as in prose, and songs that may be sung long
after the writer has lain down to sleep in his last
earthly resting place. Who is to write these
songs if not the children of the early settlers?
Are not they the ones who should have the
honor?


