Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DESTROYING its old slum houses?many of them unfit for human habitation?Manchester, England, built 50,000 new houses between World Wars I and IT. Under British Government specifications each has a living room, kitchen, three bedrooms, bathroom, ventilated pantry, gas and_ electrical equipment, space for coal, bicycle, and perambulator; also roomy gardens front and back for flowers and vegetables. Manchester expects to build 80, o00 more such houses after this war. Anyone acquainted with the dreary sordidness of usual tenement conditions in industrial centers in England must rejoice with the 130,000 fortunate workers' wives who will live in these homes. MRS. ETHEL B. GILBERT is meeting with success in her difficult new position as director of the advisory committees selected by the various industries to represent their views in counsel with the Office of Price Administration. IN her new historical book, Cortes The Conqueror (Dorrance Co.), Mrs. Elizabeth Cannon Porter presents a vivid pageant of the old Aztec civilization in Mexico, the conquering Spaniards with their strangely mixed motives, and the brilliant Indian-girl interpreter, Marina. Loved by Cortes and in return loving the "white God," she was responsible for much of his success in winning over the native populations. Having lived for a time in Mexico, Mrs. Porter has a good background, and her book shows exhaustive research. The author, a daughter of Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, Utah's first woman state senator, has contributed many articles and stories to Church periodicals. THE wife of Mahatma Gandhi died in a prison in India. She was a co-worker with her husband in the cause of soul-force and non-violence. DR. ELLEN C. POTTER, medical director of New Jersey's Department of Institutions and Agencies is president-elect of the National Conference of Social Workers. Miss Elizabeth Wisner, Dean of the School of Social Work, Tulane University, New Orleans, this year's president, reminded the conference that "all men's good" must become "each man's aim." MIRZA AHMAD SOHRAB and JULIA CHANLER are two of three authors of "The Gate," a musical drama presented at the Metropolitan Opera House for the benefit of the starving children of India. In Bengal an estimated 6,000,000 persons have died of starvation, ten per cent of the population. Page 507 EDITORIAL 

Vol 31 September 1944 No. 9