Food Fights For Freedom" Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe University of Utah THE Federal Government, through its various nutrition committees and national leaders in nutrition, in co-operation with consumer committees of the Office of Civilian Defense has initiated a "Food Fights For Freedom" program which it is hoped will penetrate every community and individual home in the United States. As "our boys" are mobilized throughout the world to do their part to "preserve our way of life" so we, on the home front, must do our part to help win the war. This program is planned with far reaching objectives. America's food supply represents perhaps the greatest single potential weapon of the war. It is authoritatively stated that food can shorten the war, save American lives, and help write the peace. In order to accomplish these objectives, we must produce sufficient and of the right kinds of food not only to meet the needs of civilians on the home front; but we must have sufficient to feed our armed forces; enough to meet the needs of our Allies; and enough to help feed the peoples of the conquered countries as soon as they are liberated from the enemy's yoke. There is apparently a general misunderstanding in regard to the food situation. Many of us believe that the shortage of some foods is due to the amount that is being shipped abroad. The latest statistics show that seventy per cent of the food produced by. This country is available for our civilians, thirteen per cent is used by our armed forces, and only ten per cent by our Allies, and two per cent is being sent to outlying territories and to our "good neighbors.": This gigantic task of supplying this vast amount of foodstuffs rests squarely upon each one of us individually. It will take the united effort of every man, woman, and child in this "great land of ours" to reach the goal of sufficient food to meet the basic needs for good health and sound nutrition for all. The question naturally arises, how can I individually help in this important program, "Food Fights For Freedom'? The Government has provided the answer. Let each one of us fit into this program in as many ways as possible: Produce more food of the right kinds. Conserve food, avoid waste. Preserve fresh and perishable foods. Turn food into effective working power by eating the right foods every day for health. 5. Adjust diet to the food available by substituting plentiful for scarce foods. 6. Play fair in buying food?share it cheerfully and fairly through rationing 7. Help keep food costs down by paying no more than top legal prices. 8. Participate in community food projects and inspire friends and neighbors to do the same. 9. Place the war first and expect to adjust to wartime conditions. IN order to mobilize the entire population of our country to participate wholeheartedly in this program, the month of September is being designated as "Food For Freedom" month. Page 501 GROUP... EVERY DAY IN ADDITION TO THE BASIC 7... EAT ANY OTHER FOODS YOU WANT During this month, Federal, state, and county organizations, all women's organizations, all educational groups, public schools, universities and colleges, together with all food producers, processors, and distributors will join in the food crusade to make food fight for freedom. Food choices must not be left to chance. An educational program that will build up new habits of conscious choice, a choice based upon a knowledge of the basic principles of nutrition, is absolutely necessary to "all out" success. Until all people understand and have a firm conviction of the truths of nutrition, our program will be retarded. The National Research Council published the "New Yardstick of Good Nutrition," or, as it is more scientifically known, the "Table of Recommended Daily Allowances for Specific Nutrients." In this table specific amounts of the various nutrients required daily for different ages and different activities are suggested. A more readily available guide to good nutrition is known as the "Basic 7" food groups. In this classification, foods are grouped according to their principal nutritive values. The "Basic 7" food groups are arranged in the form of a chart which will be found in connection with this article. This chart provides a pleasant formula to follow in order to meet the recommended dietary allowances. This does not "FOOD FIGHTS FOR FREEDOM" mean that only foods in these groups should be eaten, but that one or more helpings daily should be selected from each group. Such a diet will include adequate calories, protein, calcium, iron, and the essential vitamins: ascorbic acid (Vitamin C), thiamin (B), riboflavin (G), nicotinic acid (Vitamin A, Vitamin D). After supplying these dietary essentials, other foods, which people usually enjoy, may be added. Such foods will usually add calories but will contribute little to the protein, mineral, and vitamin content of the diet. A brief analysis of the principal nutritive values of the "Basic 7" food groups follows: 1. Green and yellow vegetables eaten raw, cooked, canned or frozen, are a valuable natural source of many vitamins and minerals essential to adequate nutrition. Found in this group are cabbages, carrots, celery, green-leaf vegetables, sweet potatoes and yams, and yellow squash. 2. Oranges, grapefruit, tomatoes, raw cabbage or salad greens contribute also liberally to the vitamin and mineral content of the diet. 3. Potatoes, the main vegetable in this group, contain generous amounts of good quality proteins, iron, Vitamins C and B, and starch for energy 503 apples and bananas are included in this group. 4. Milk and milk products are the most efficient of all foods in making good the deficiencies of grain products and in assuring an adequate diet. It is important as a source of energy, protein, minerals, and vitamins. 5. Meats, including fish, poultry and eggs, are rich in high quality protein which is essential to proper growth and development in children, and for building and repair in adults. Lean meats contain thiamin (B) and riboflavin (G), but are not rich sources of calcium and certain other vitamins. 6. Enriched bread, whole grain flours and cereals are economical sources of energy, proteins, thiamin, iron, and niacin. 7. Butter and fortified margarines are important sources of energy, Vitamins A and D, and important fatty acids. The principal deficiencies in the average diet are calcium, Vitamin A, riboflavin, and often Vitamin C, and thiamin. A diet that provides liberally for milk, also cheese, cream, ice cream, fruits, and leaf vegetables will make good these deficiencies and will insure adequate nutrition. To the homemakers of America? let us accept the challenge, NUTRITION For ALL. [Note:?This article is presented on behalf of the Utah State Nutrition Council and Committee for "Food Fights For Freedom'. ]