The Framers of the Constitution
SEPTEMBER 17 of each year has been set aside as Constitution Day. It was 157 years ago this September 17 that, after four months of tedious and laborious planning, work, and the acceptance of compromises, the Constitution of the United States was signed by thirty-nine of the fifty-five delegates to the convention, thus probably averting anarchy in the Thirteen States.
The convention held its meetings in that long, banked-up, Philadelphia, Independence Hall, where, eleven years before, the immortal Declaration of Independence had been published to the world. Seven of the delegates had been signers of the Declaration of Independence. All were "respectable for family and for personal qualities?men who had been well educated and had done something whereby to earn recognition in these troubled times." Twentysix were graduates of a university?Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Princeton, William and Mary, Oxford, and St. Andrews. Twenty-nine were university men, and among these were George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. John Adams and Thomas Jefferson were in Europe at the time, so they were not among the delegates. George Washington was chosen as president of the convention. Franklin was eighty-one years of age; the youngest man present was Jonathan Dayton of New Jersey, twenty-six years old. The brilliant Alexander Hamilton was thirty, and James Madison, named the "Father of the Constitution," was forty-six. He was sweet tempered with a sly manner, but he held his power of leadership by reason of his intelligence, industry, and integrity which no man ever questioned.
On May 28 when the delegates of the thirteen states had arrived, the doors were locked and each man was sworn to utter secrecy as to the deliberations. What was said and done therein was not revealed until fifty years had passed and James Madison, the last survivor of those who attended the convention, had died?then the journal of the 510 proceedings which he had kept was published. The outcome of the convention was always in grave doubt, as was also the program to be followed. At the outset, Washington arose and, in solemn and moving tones, uttered those immortal words: It is too probable that no plan we propose will be adopted. Perhaps another conflict is to be sustained. If, to please the people, we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterward defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God. Various proposals were considered and three great compromises accepted which laid the foundations of our Federal Constitution. It was Franklin who suggested a daily opening prayer. After nearly four months of tedious toil in the boiling heat of a Philadelphia summer, representatives from twelve-states signed the document. It is said that many members seemed awestruck at what had been accomplished. Washington sat with his head bowed in meditation. The scene was ended by a characteristic observation of Franklin. When Washington arose from his chair, Franklin, pointing to it, uttered this remarkable prophecy: As I have been sitting here all these weeks, I have often wondered whether yonder sun is rising or setting. But now I know that it is a rising sun! It was these fifty-five men of whom
the Lord spoke when he said, And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this
very purpose. ? (Doc. & Gov. Sec. 101:80). Let all honor be given these men on September 17, 1944; and on this day? again a day of crisis in our national affairs, let men of such calibre be sought for diligently? the honest and wise of our great and beloved. M.C.S. Luacine Savage Clark (Continued from page 487) Elder Ivor Sharp, is today associate editor of TheTemple work and genealogy have also claimed the time and attention of Sister Clark. She was a member of Friendship Circle, the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, and a Bible study class. Sister Clark was a gracious and charming hostess and was never happier than when extending hospitality to friends in her artistic home. For her lovely character, her exemplary life, her generous nature and artistic ability, Luacine Savage Clark will long be loved and remembered.