Guide_Lessons | Title: Guide Lessons for March]

Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I Theology Lesson THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (First Week in March)
A. Why Jesus Taught in Parables.
There came a time in the life of Jesus when a mixed multitude of people followed him to hear what he might say, and see what he might do. This multitude might be divided into two classes: the one, a class of truth seekers; the other, a class of unbelievers or doubters. The first class was open to conviction. It was composed of the meek, in that they were teachable. For the most part, they were disciples of Christ, that is, believers in him. To them he could talk as Jehovah talked to Moses, "face to face." Jesus said of them: "Blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear." (Matt. 13:16.) The others were persons who had no desire to learn the truth and were possessed of a determination not to be converted. (Matt. 13:15.) Being acquainted with the prophets through a study of the scripture, and knowing the condition of these people through the spirit of discernment, he spoke to them in parables as a fulfiller of prophecy and as a teacher who recognized the psychological truth, "that a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still." Through parables he secured their attention, and taught them the truth in a way that left them with less responsibility than if he had declared the kingdom unto them by direct discourse. These self-made skeptics, however, could not escape without being burdened with something to think about. Their intellects were moved to the point of wonder; but their hearts were not reached to the point of understanding. The spirit of testimony in mercy was withheld from them. Of the multitudes who listened to his parables, and of the millions who have read them, not one person, be that one ever so infidelic, can get away from the import of the lessons taught, so universal are his parables in their application to life. There are twenty-nine parables spoken by the Savior recorded in the New Testament. Of these twenty-nine, seven were delivered to the multitude who stood on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, while sitting in a boat he spoke to them. (Matt. 13:2.) On this occasion his entire discourse was parabolic. (Matt. 13:34.) In thus limiting his form of teaching on this occasion, he fulfilled the prophecy found in Psalms 78:2, "I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old." For one of the best things written on this topic see "Christ's Purposes in Using Parables," page 295 in Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve.
B. The First Parable?The Sower.
The setting. The following is from Jesus the Christ by Talmage, page 300: "Local Setting for the Parable of the Sower.??Dr. R. C. Trench, in his excellent work Notes on the Parables of our Lord (page 57, note), quotes Dean Stanley's description of existing conditions in the place where the Parable of the Sower was given by Jesus; and as there is reason to believe that the environment has changed but little since the days of Christ, the account is here reproduced. "A slight recess in the hillside close upon the plain disclosed at once in detail, and with a conjunction which I remember nowhere else in Palestine, every feature of the great parable. There was the undulating corn-field descending to the water's edge. There was the trodden pathway running through the midst of it, with no fence or hedge to prevent the seed falling here or there on either side of it, or upon it?itself hard with the constant tramp of horse and mule and human beings. There was the 'good' rich soil, which distinguishes the whole of that plain and its neighborhood from the bare hills elsewhere, descending into the lake, and which, where there is no interruption, produces one vast mass of corn. There was the rocky ground of the hillside protruding here and there through the corn-fields, as elsewhere, through the grassy slopes. There were the large bushes of thorn, the 'nabk' *** springing up, like the fruit-trees of the more inland parts, in the very midst of the waving wheat." 2. The Parable. "Behold, a sower went forth to sow; and when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up: some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: and when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: but other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundred fold, some sixty fold, some thirty fold." 3. The Interpretation. (Matt. 13:18-23). "Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. "When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the wayside. 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; "Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while; for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. "He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. "But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty." 4. Suggestions for Thought. This parable was given to show the various states of preparation of the mind for the reception of the truth; not the soil itself, but its condition is the object of consideration. His hearers, acquainted with the soil of the country and the methods of tillage, well knew that the wayside paths that crossed the field could be made productive by plowing and harrowing. The stony land ' could be cleared of the rocks and the soil made strong by the use of fertilizers. The weedy parts of the field could be made to produce good crops by rooting up the tares and even the most productive soil might be improved. A heart, hardened by prejudice against the truth, is like a hardened highway where nothing can grow. The mind with a sincerity that fails in the presence of temptation or opposition is typified by the shallow soil. The soul whose time and attention are absorbed in material interests to the exclusion of active interest in spiritual things is represented by the soil cumbered with weeds. The character that comes from seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness is the soil, clear of weeds, free from stones, and hardpan, and in a high state of cultivation. For a more elaborate discussion see Jesus the Christ, page 283 to 285. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What two classes of people followed Jesus to hear what he might say and see what he might do? 2. To which class did he speak in parables? 3. Why did his disciples wonder at his teaching in parables?. 4. What reason did Jesus give for his teaching in parables? 5. Give the setting to the occasion when he first spoke in parables. 6. How many parables were spoken by Jesus during his first day of parabolic teaching? 7. Repeat the parable of the Sower. 8, What was the chief object of this parable? 49 9. Give the Savior's interpretation of the parable of the Sower. 10. What condition of mind or spirit is represented Ey the weedy ground? 11. What two prophecies did Jesus fulfil by speaking in parables? 12. Give some additional points on the parable. 13. What does Dr. James E. Talmage say concerning the parable of the Sower suggesting the doctrine of fatalism? (page 285.) 14. Of what value is this parable in our day?