Recommendations of General Board Respecting Maternity and Health

The General Board recommends:
I. That the wheat interest be reserved for maternity and health purposes;
II. That as a first step in maternity and health work something in the nature of a maternity chest or maternity bundles be established in each ward, or in each local community, whichever plan seems best for the community. Where several wards are located in one town, these wards might join together in this work, if desired; or where all the wards in a stake are located in one city, or its suburbs, the work might be undertaken as a stake, with the wards pooling their funds in the stake board. The Pioneer stake in Salt Lake City operates a large loan cupboard or chest for the whole stake, under the direction of the stake board. (See October conference minutes, Relief Society Magazine, December, 1923.)

III. That previous to the establishment of a maternity chest or maternity bundles, the needs of the community in this respect be carefully studied;
IV. That where chests and bundles are provided, arrangements be such that articles may be sold, rented where people are able to pay rent, loaned when necessary, or given to the needy;
V. That whatever possible, a nurse be asked to assist the presidency, or the committee, in the care and supervision of the maternity chests and bundles.

Care of Chests and Bundles: It will readily be understood that all articles must have proper care and be kept absolutely clean and sanitary. In one locality where there is a maternity chest established, the local hospital makes room for the chest and sterilizes materials used in connection therewith. Where sanitary pads for immediate use after the birth cannot be purchased, cloths, etc., which may be used, should be sterilized by baking thoroughly for at least one hour, or if used the same day, by ironing with hot iron. It is suggested that those in charge of this work consult local doctors and nurses or hospitals with regard to the sterilizing and preparing of various articles, and their proper care when not in use.

SUGGESTIONS

1. Maternity Chest containing all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby; also accessories such as syringes, bed-pan, hot water bags, etc. (From such a chest articles might be selected for various needs.)
2. Ready-to-use Maternity Bundles.
3. First-baby necessities (shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket.)
4. Layette, ready to use.

Note: As a beginning, a ward or community might start on a small scale and gradually add those things most needed. Some might prefer to have ready-made maternity bundles, first-baby necessities, and layettes prepared, wrapped and ready for use.

SUGGESTIONS

Note:—A large number of articles are listed below from which may be selected those most needed in each locality.

Maternity Chest

1 bed pan
1 hot water bag
1 ice bag
1 enema can (all attachments, nose, rectal douche points, rubber tubing, clamps)

1 catheter—rubber and glass
1 rectal tube
1 pitcher —1-quart size
1 slop bucket
1 electric pad