[Vol11 | January 1924 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Mexican Mission
Relief Society workers will be interested in the snapshot of the Atlanta Relief Society in old Mexico, which is one of the three organized branches in Ozumba conference. A letter from Elder George H. Carstensen states that the Relief Society women in old Mexico, although in very modest circumstances, are making every effort to better themselves and neighbors. There are in all ten Relief Societies in Mexico.
Eastern States Mission
In a letter from Miss Marie Danielsen, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, we learn that Miss Danielsen has just returned from Massachusetts where very successful Relief Society conferences were held at New Bedford, Boston, and Lynn. The attendance at the meetings was good, and the programs given were instructive and interesting. The Societies in New Bedford and Lynn are rather permanent. They are strong organizations and are doing their part to help the conference president look after the needs of the people in their branches. The Boston branch is made up mostly of the wives of students with a few missionaries. The president, Mrs. Claire Noall Robison, wife of Professor Robison of the New England Conservatory of Music, has been very successful in getting Utah girls and young women into the organization. The Brooklyn Relief Society, Miss Clara Robinson, president, has been meeting regularly with good attendance. The Young Mothers' Circle of the Manhattan branch meets weekly and is doing some very fine work along social service lines. The work in the mission is growing, and the interest among the sisters is increasing.
New York Conference
The following Relief Society organizations have been recently organized: Syracuse: Eva B. Keeler, president; Emma Call and Dorcas Turley, counselors; Beatrice Allen, secretary; Persis Turley, teacher. Rochester: Emma Harris Brown, president; Julia Gossman and Margaret Smith, counselors; Harriet Fose, secretary; Theressa Taif, teacher.
HEALTH WORK
The General Board is delighted with the reports which are constantly coming in from women in various localities, telling of the health conferences and clinics which are being held throughout the state, as well as in our adjoining states. Relief Society women everywhere are interested in the programs of the various states in carrying out the provisions for the Sheppard-Towner act, and they are assisting and co-operating with the educational work which is being projected. Health conferences and clinics are revealing many defects among women and children, which were previously unknown, and it is felt that follow-up work will surely come later, through the efforts of agencies and individuals.
Utah Stake. The Utah stake Relief Society is doing some very excellent things along the line of maternity and child welfare work. Long before the wheat interest checks were received by the wards, a special meeting of stake and ward officers was held, and it was decided that the wheat money should be used as a stake fund in the interest of maternity and child welfare; and that the work be done in cooperation with agencies organized under the Sheppard-Towner Act. A committee of stake board members has this work in hand, and several enthusiastic Mothers' conferences have been held in Provo, Springville, and Mapleton. At these conferences Dr. Barber, director of the State Bureau of Child Hygiene, has examined hundreds of babies and given advice regarding their care; and consulted many expectant mothers in the interest of their own health and better babies. Local physicians assisted Dr. Barber, and are now giving their best service to the work he has barely begun. The department has a loan and emergency closet well under way. The M.I.A. Girls of one ward took great interest in making one of the layettes to demonstrate how it could be made simply and beautifully by the work of their hands. Another beautiful layette was made by a board member from articles of cast off clothing to demonstrate the made-over that meant no cash outlay whatever except a spool of crochet cotton. The object of these demonstrations is to encourage the simple and inexpensive infant wear that gives to the baby all the comfort of the most elaborate outfits. The Relief Society board of this stake are particularly appreciative of the whole-hearted support of the brethren in the stake presidency, and of the splendid co-operation of ward Relief Society officers.
HEALTH PROGRAM IN BINGHAM COUNTY, IDAHO (BLACKFOOT AND SHELLEY STAKES)
The Bingham County Nursing Service is a co-operative piece of health work which has attracted much attention and has been the subject of favorable comment wherever it is known. The Blackfoot and Shelley stake Relief Societies, joined with the county commissioners, the boards of education, in Blackfoot and Shelley, and the Red Cross, in establishing a nursing service in the schools in Bingham county. Realizing the need of a public health nurse in this county, the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, with Mrs. Signe A. Davis, president, took the initiative. In April, 1923, the board appointed a committee of three for the purpose of interesting other organizations in a movement to secure a school nurse. The committee which consisted of Mrs. E. L. Egli, Mrs. J. T. Carruth, and Miss Gladys Huish, made a survey and interviewed other agencies and organizations. The committee was very successful in interesting others in the movement and secured the following results: The Blackfoot board of education subscribed $250; the Shelley board of education $200; the Bingham county Red Cross chapter, $400; the County commissioners, $400; the Shelley stake Relief Society, $200; and the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, $400; making a total of $1,850, which it was planned would finance the nursing program at least for nine months. A board was organized to supervise the work. The board is composed of a representative from each organization pooling funds to finance the movement, and is known as the Bingham county Nursing Service Board. Miss Edith Chaffee, one of the best public health nurses on the Red Cross staff, was engaged and everything was in readiness to begin work in October. The board is as follows: Mrs. J. T. Carruth, representing the Blackfoot stake Relief Society, chairman; Mr. J. R. Wilkins, representing the Shelley Board of Education, secretary and treasurer; Mrs. Eae Freeman, representing the Shelley stake Relief Society; Mrs. E. J. Early, representing the Bingham county Red Cross; Mr. E. D. Bloom representing the Blackfoot Board of Education; Mr. John R. Williams, representing the County commissioners.