[Vol11 | January 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Recommendations of General Board Respecting Maternity and He]

RECOMMENDATIONS OF GENERAL BOARD
III.

That previous to the establishment of a maternity chest or maternity bundles, the needs of the community in this respect be carefully studied;
IV.

That where chests and bundles are provided, arrangements be such that articles may be sold, rented where people are able to pay rent, loaned when necessary, or given to the needy;
V. That wherever possible, a nurse be asked to assist the presidency, or the committee, in the care and supervision of the maternity chests and bundles, Care of Chests and Bundles: It will readily be understood that all articles must have proper care and be kept absolutely clean and sanitary.

In one locality where there is a maternity chest established, the local hospital makes room for the chest and sterilizes materials used in connection therewith.

Where sanitary pads for immediate use after the birth cannot be purchased, cloths, etc., which may be used, should be sterilized by baking thoroughly for at least one hour, or if used the same day, by ironing with hot iron.

It is suggested that those in charge of this work consult 'local doctors and nurses or hospitals with regard to the sterilizing and preparing of various articles, and their proper care when not in use.

SUGGESTIONS 1. Maternity Chest containing all sorts of articles for the mother and new baby; also accessories such as syringes, bed-pan, hot water bags, etc. (From such a chest articles might be selected for various needs.) 2. Ready-to-use Maternity Bundles. 3. First-baby necessities (shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket.) 4. Layette, ready to use.

Note: Asa beginning, a ward or community might start on a small scale and gradually add those things most needed.

Some might prefer to have ready-made maternity bundles, first-baby necessities, and layettes prepared, wrapped and ready for use.

SUGGESTIONS Note:?A large number of articles are listed below from which may be selected those most needed in each locality.

Maternity Chest 1 bed pan, 1 catheter?rubber and glass 1 hot water bag 1 'rectal tube 1 ice bag.

I pitcher ?1-quart size 1 enema can all attachments, 1 slop bucket nose, rectal douche points, 1 electric pad 
 Surgical supplies Absorbent cotton Umbilical cord Bandages and gauze Medicine droppers?l4 dozen Boracic Acid Measuring glasses?14 dozen Lysol Soap?toilet and laundry Argyrol tablets, 1-grain Witch hazel Glycerine Applicators Olive oil Vaseline tubes Iodine Umbilical cord Medicine droppers-1/2 dozen Measuring glasses-1/2 dozen Soap-toilet and landry Witch hazel Applicators (tooth picks wrapped with cotton)  Thermometers  Emergency Supplies All types of infants' appearel~used, repaired and new.

Mothers' apparel?underwear and gowns.

Bedding Pillow cases Towels, wash cloths Sheets Tray covers Quilts, blankets, etc Maternity Bundles I 1 gown 1 yard white oilcloth 2 large perineal pads 3 sanitary packs safety pins (to be used 12 large sponges after birth) 1 binder for breast (with safety 1 binder for abdomen pins) olive oil 1 pair long hip stockings, made talcum powder of outing flannel, supplied Boracic Acid prepared solution safety pins 6 towels.

Lysol 1 pair rubber gloves Medicated cotton 1 receiving blanket 1 bar soap - ' 1 cord tie and cord dressing II 1 baby band 1 yard white oilcloth 4 sponges 1 white sheet 1 diaper 1 pad, l-yard square piece of absorbent cotton FIRST BABY NECESSITIES: Shirt, band, gown, diaper, blanket.

LAYETTE: 6 dresses, 4 skirts, 3 shirts, 3 strips flannel, 3 dozen diapers, 4 night gowns, 1 blanket.

Note: Baby clothes should be simple and comfortable and not longer than 24 inches, Spreads Quilts, blankets, etc.