[Vol1 | December 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Thoughts and Reflections]

THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS.
As the year draws to its close, we naturally turn to contemplate the past and to consider what has been accomplished worthy of merit or to be remembered as contributing to the general good of the world, or the people at large, and whether the year has been one of growth, in the larger sense, for mankind.
In looking back this year we cannot help feeling that every other consideration falls into insignificance in view of the uncalled for and totally unnecessary war in which Europe is involved, and which surpasses in cruelty and horror any war since modern civilization began.
In this terrible conflict the ambition of kings and rulers has surely reached its climax.
Upon the slightest pretext, the horrid enginery and agencies of bloodshed have been set in motion, battle has been forced upon friend nations, and countries whose dreams and labors were all directed along the lines of universal peace have been compelled, in order to save their honor and their life, to take up the sword.
Who is to answer for the lives lost in the conflict and the widows and orphans, whose sufferings must be beyond description?
Who is to still the prayers, tears and entreaties which avail so little against armed hosts, called into battle under orders from their leaders, whom they must obey? 2 The lines of Kipling's poem continually force, themselves into the mind: "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget, lest we forget!"  Alas, there is no fear now of our forgetting it would be a relief indeed could we but forget the awful situation across the sea.
But this is a relief impossible to those whose hearts are filled with pity and compassion.
The dreadful spectre of bloodshed and carnage leaves neither peace nor rest in the minds of those who love their fellow men, and whose aim and struggle has been to bring about an era when war should be known no more.
However, though our hearts bleed because of the desolation and strife, yet we should remember that there is a God in Heaven, who watches over all, and put our trust in Him, knowing of a surety that He doeth all things well.
We should not be forgetful of the peace in our own land of promise, for we all know that America is the promised land, choice above all others.
It is cause for gratitude that we as a nation are at peace with all the world; for though Mexico, our southern neighbor, has been and continues to be disturbed, there is no need for anxiety on our part except by way of sympathy with those who are being troubled and injured.
As a nation we fortunately still seem free from any entanglement or participation in the unhappy conditions existing beyond the Rio Grande.
The Latter-day Saints, as a people, have every reason to rejoice in the prosperity that has been showered upon them this year, especially in vegetation and fruits, the cattle upon a thousand hills, the sheep, and every living thing that adds to the support and sustenance of the people who inhabit these mountain vales.
Great things are expected of this peculiar people, and they should keep in mind the counsel given by our leaders in days past and present, concerning the fulfillment of prophecies, when those who are in trouble and in want will flee to Zion for assistance.
We who know these things and believe them, should be active and diligent, and on the alert at all times, making preparations for the fulfillment of prophecy, that the people may not be taken unawares, but be ready for emergencies with our lamps trimmed and burning.
In these perilous and distracting times, great wisdom should be exercised by those who teach among the sisters in the Church.
They should be careful and wise in giving advice, seeking diligently in prayer for the spirit of the Lord to guide them in all their sayings and doings, and duly recognize those who preside over them in the Relief Society.
Our organization is expected to be in perfect harmony with the Priesthood in each:  locality; and if this is done, there is safety for all, and no danger of getting wrong ideas on any subject.
Pride, says the Scripture, goeth before a fall, and the warning is a true one.
Humility is one of the noblest attributes of human character, and it will bring down upon its possessor the blessings of Heaven.
Finally, in view of the dire condition of the world today and the events about to transpire in the near future, it behooves us as women of Zion to set an example of excellence to all the world having that true charity that never faileth, ; exercising at all times wisdom, in season and out of season and; in all respects ordering our lives and conduct in accordance with our high profession as Latter-day Saints.
EMMELINE B.
WELLS.