LESSON III ' Literature (Third Week in October) Preview of Literary Lessons for 1929-30 The nine biographies and the issues of the Magazines in which the various outlines are to be published are: 1, Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser; August, 1929. 2. The Girl in the White Armor, by Albert Bigelow Paine; September, 1929. 3. Since An American Idyl is out of print, a further announcement will be made in relation to the October sketch. 4. A Son of the Middle Border, by Hamlin Garland; November, 1929, 5. The Lost Commander, by Mrs. Mary S. Andrews; December, 1929, 6. Noon, by Kathleen Norris; January, 1930. 7, Joaquin Miller, by himself; February, 1930, 8. Schumann-Heink, by Mary Lawton; March, 1930. 9. Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson; April, 1930. (These books may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) This selection has been made because of the interest of the books themselves and because of the beauty of life that is found in most of them.

Class leaders could very well make the assignments for the year now, in order that those who are to review the books may have plenty of time in which to read them and absorb their contents.

Wherever possible the entire membership of the class should read the books.

Nine books are not many to read in a season, especially when the books are as fascinating and as worth while as these are.

With one or two exceptions these are all cheap books, to be had at very reasonable prices.

Every library in the entire inter-mountain region might well own at least one copy oi each of these books.

Fascinating as fiction, they are as valuable as the best works in literature.

Some questions that reviewers should ask themselves and the authors when they are reading the books are: What has this author attempted to do?

How well has he or she accomplished it?

Is the feeling sound?

Or is the narrative over sentimental?

Oris it too cold?

Are the incidents well selected to reveal the character in question?

Is the language suitable?

Are the words well chosen?

Does the book have charm?

Is the character portrayed as he or she is or was, or does the, author give only those incidents which tend to create a  pre-conceived impression?

That is, does the biography state unbiased fact?

Or is it propaganda in favor of the character considered?

So much for the literary form of the biography.

The reviewer may then turn to the character under observation and propound some questions: Is this person worth knowing?

Why?

Did he have something for the world the lack of which would make the world poorer?

What is that something?

Is he revealed in this narrative?

What successes did he have which encourage us in our work?

What failures did he suffer which we may avoid?

Of what importance was he in his time?

At present?

What heritage did he leave?

What characters whom you know have some of his better traits?

The reviewer's problem is to reveal to her audience the character of the person under observation, especially if that audience has not read the book that is being studied.

She must also be able to point out the excellencies and shortcomings of the authors, telling in what way they have been successful and in what ways they have fallen short.

KARL G. MAESER By Reinhard Maeser The life of Karl G. Maeser, by his son, Reinhard Maeser, has been selected for study as the first biography of the series that will constitute this course.

This selection was made because of the importance of the subject and Dr. Maeser's place in the affections of thousands of Latter-day Saints.

It is such a eulogy as one would expect from a respectful son concerning his father.

In this biography we behold Karl G. Maeser, the hero of a son's heart; but we catch few glimpses of Kari G. Maeser when he is not on dress parade.

At the beginning of the course, a few suggestions and definitions may be in order.

For instance, before we begin upon these excellent books, perhaps it would be well to tabulate a few things for which we are to be on the lookout.

If "Biography presents the picture of a mind, a soul, a heart, of an environment; of successes and failure that make, or seek to make, the subject immortal", as Dr. Joseph Collins says it does, then we are to observe in the story of this life those elements which enshrined it in so many hearts.

"From biography,' Dr. Collins continues, "man gets moral, physical, mental, and emotional assistance; he sees where others have failed, and why; he recognizes avoidable obstacles and handicaps; he learns the value of health and its relation to happiness; and he is made to see that material prosperity does not always spell spiritual welfare.

"He appreciates the meaning of culture and its influence on the individual and his time; he runs the gamut of emotions that are aroused by all good biographies; he suffers vicariously or enjoys objectively with the subject.

His own life therefore becomes happier and more complete because of his intimate sojourn with a successful predecessor." In twenty-eight brief chapters, Reinhard Maeser, a former professor of English at Brigham Young University, has attempted to give to posterity a biography of his illustrious father; but through them all, he has revealed the fact that he was more of a historian than a biographer, after all.

We see more of what Karl G. Maeser did than of what he was.

The book begins with the youth and early life of Dr. Maeser as the background for his later life.

It then follows the great teacher through many trials and triumphs to his selection as principal of Brigham Young Academy, the parent Church school, and thence to his new position of superintendent of schools.

The later chapters contain accounts of his death and many of the expressions concerning him made by prominent people.

In his narration, Reinhard Maeser has employed simple and direct, though effective language, but has not attempted to garnish up the story.

The biography indicates that Dr. Maeser's life might well be divided into three periods: first, the period of preparation in the Fatherland, when, as student and teacher.

He laid the foundation for his career; second, the period of growth, during which he acted as pioneer and missionary; and third, the final period, in which he became the great educator and director of educational affairs.

Karl Gottfried Maeser was born January 16, 1828, in Vorbrucke, Meissen, in Saxony, Germany.

His parents, believing in preparation for life's work, encouraged their children to obtain an education.

Karl G. Was graduated in May, 1848, from the Normal School at Fredrichstadt.

In the year 1855, a young married man with one son, he met for the first time three "Mormon" missionaries.

He was soon converted.

This first period of his father's life Reinhard passes over rather hurriedly, though glimpses of the character of the future great teacher are given.

A long period of trouble and perplexity is then recounted till 1856, when the German school teacher and his little family emigrated to America, where all were to be tried as in a fiery furnace.

Poverty and  home-sickness were combined with parental importunities to have the convert renounce the new religion and return to Germany; but Karl G. Maeser's testimony of the Gospel stood throughout his life, steadfast as the mountains looking down upon his struggles.

Educated, refined, this gentleman from the culture of Germany was thrown into company of excellent though sometimes uncouth companions, who were officers in the new Church he had joined; and he soon discovered the hearts of gold beating beneath the rough exteriors.

Soon after reaching Salt Lake City, the German school master opened a private school; and from that time on, except when he was filling missions, he kept constantly busy in his chosen profession.

It was a "starvation period," throughout which the professor was successful in collecting barely enough to keep his family from actual want.

His son has preserved for us a vivid picture of this period.

"He knew," says the biographer, "what it was to be hungry; he knew what it was to shiver with his loved ones on Christmas day; he knew what it was to hear people say: 'If he's too lazy to work for his living, let him starve.' " During these dark days he received a letter from his father imploring him to return to Germany, where he could resume his position again and live comfortably; but he would not turn against his testimony.

He threw the letter into the fire, thanking God once more for a testimony that enabled him to bear up under his trials.

"I would rather take my wheelbarrow and go day by day among this people, collecting chips and whetstones for my pay than to have the Kingdom of Saxony open to me, if that meant sacrifice of my knowledge and testimony of the gospel." His most bitter struggles ended in 1876 when Professor Maeser, crowning his faith with glory, was called to his greatest work, that of becoming first principal of the Brigham!

Young Academy, the parent Church school.

When preparing to leave his home in Salt Lake City for his new home in Provo, he went to President Young for his commission.

"I am about to leave for Provo, Brother Young," he said, "to start my work in the Academy.

Have you any instructions to give me?" The President looked steadily forward for a few minutes, as though in deep thought, then said: "Brother Maeser, I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication table without the spirit of God.

That is all.

God bless you.

Good-bye." Those words of the Prophet, says the biographer, were guiding principles in all of Dr. Maeser's subsequent work, becoming the means of inspiration to hundreds of young men "to become their better selves." In 1892, after sixteen years of service as principal, Dr. Maeser was released and appointed superintendent of the Church School System.

During his incumbency, he organized the Religion Class work.

The life of the great teacher drew sweetly yet suddenly to a close when, early in the morning of February 15, 1901, he fell asleep not to waken again in this life.

Karl G. Maeser is a well written book containing much that is fine.

The writer was handicapped by his reverence for his father.

He has not given us, and perhaps no one could, the Karl G. Maeser who was strong enough to impress himself so deeply upon the minds and souls of those who came in contact with him.

Some of the sayings of this philosophical educator have become as potent in many lives as lines from the scripture.

"Relatives and debtors of great characters should not undertake to be their biographers," says Dr. Collins.

Perhaps he is right; yet we have in this volume the story of a noble life nobly lived.

From it we can draw inspiration and the power with which to conquer our own world.

The great teacher has passed on.

Hundreds knew him; other hundreds are now to know him through this book by his eldest son.

Questions and Problems 1. Criticize Karl G. Maeser, by Reinhard Maeser, from a literary point of view.

That is, point out the excellencies and any defects discovered in the book.

Is the language effective?

Does it ring true?

Does it give an adequate picture of Dr. Maeser?

Does it reveal the man sufficiently for him to become a potent factor in your life?

Etc. 2. Name some of the traits of character that made Dr. Maeser great. 3. What part did preparation play in his life? 4. Discuss the topic: 'Fortunate is the Great Man Who Has a Great Biographer."