HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon

THE NATION MOURNS

The Relief Society Magazine joins with the nation in mourning the passing of Calvin Coolidge, thirtieth president of the United States. His death came suddenly on January 5, 1933, at his home in Northampton, Massachusetts.

President Coolidge was a man of simple tastes and quiet dignity. His administration was marked by economy in government and a policy of non-interference in business. He believed in the fundamental principles of American democracy and in the ability of the American people to work out their own destiny.

The nation has lost a faithful public servant, one who gave his best to his country. His memory will be cherished by all who knew him and by the millions who respected his integrity and devotion to duty.

WOMEN'S CLUBS

The General Federation of Women's Clubs is planning its biennial convention to be held in Chicago, May 22-27, 1933. The theme of the convention will be "Women Building a Better World."

The National Council of Women is continuing its work for world peace and international understanding. Local councils throughout the country are cooperating in this important work.

EDUCATION

The National Education Association reports that despite economic conditions, enrollment in schools and colleges continues to increase. This is encouraging evidence of the American people's faith in education.

Many colleges and universities are offering special courses for adults who wish to continue their education. This movement toward adult education is one of the most significant developments in American education today.

SOCIAL WELFARE

The need for social welfare work continues to grow. Relief organizations throughout the country are working heroically to meet the needs of the unemployed and their families.

The Red Cross, the Salvation Army, and other charitable organizations deserve the support of all citizens in their efforts to relieve suffering and distress.

RELIGION

Churches throughout the nation are reporting increased attendance and renewed interest in spiritual matters. This is a hopeful sign in these troubled times.

The Federal Council of Churches is continuing its work for social justice and world peace. Its influence for good is felt throughout the nation.