ZCMI's authentic ADVISORY SCHOOL BOARD FASHIONS
For the first time in the west ZCMI presents school clothes selected by fashion-wise students themselves. They told us what they wanted... We've rounded them up. They're here ready to help you conquer the campus!
Cowhide link belt 1.00
Brushed wool ribbon-bound cardigan 3.98
"Lazy Bones" campus brogues 4.95
Matching short sleeved sweater 2.98
"Rhythm Step" smart dress shoes 7.95
Gay broadcloth and kid mittens 1,98
Plaid fabric bag holds Scotch Clan Plaid frock whirling skirt. Contrast color binding 14.95
ZCMI everything 1.98
VOL. XXVII
The Cover
The cover picture this month is a copy of The Gleaners, by Jean Francois Millett (1814-75). Noted for his peasant scenes, the one reproduced on the cover is regarded as one of his best. Himself a peasant in origin, familiar with the toil and privation of farm life, he interpreted peasant life with a truthfulness, simplicity and pathos unequaled in all art. The pose of his figures is superb and there is an extraordinary unity between them and the landscape backgrounds which he handled with the greatest skill.
Index to Advertisers
Arden Dairy 651
Deseret Book Co. Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co.
L. D. S. Business College 651
Larkin Mortuary Inside Back Cover
The Deseret News Press - Outside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co.
COOK ELECTRICALLY HEAT WATER ELECTRICALLY
See Your Electric Appliance Dealer
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
THE L. D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in
Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service
It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education
Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information"
L.D.S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
for you."
Perfect Health
Milk is the only food that is a complete menu of health. So when we prescribe "3 glasses of Arden Milk daily" ?it's only another way of saying: "Safeguard your health... Enjoy greater energy and vigor with Arden Milk. It's Perfectly Pasteurized?better tasting?better
ARDEN MILK Phone 3-2703
awaits you in every loaf of Fisher's DUTCH BREAD. Be sure it's on your table often?it makes the most delicious toast you ever tasted... And what is so appetizing as golden-toasted bread, either plain or spread with jam? It's especially good for the teeth, and generally very healthful for all the family. Take home a loaf next time you shop.
Fishers. DUTCH BREAD
A Product of the FISHER MASTER BAKERS
A Now Taste Thrill!
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII OCTOBER, 1940 No. 10
Contents
Special Features
Pioneers All. Irene R. Davis 651
Frontispiece—Salt Lake Regional Grain Elevator 652
Church Grain Elevator Dedication Counselor Donna D. Sorensen 653
The Church Grain Elevator Tells Its Story. Dr. Royal L. Garff 658
Juveniles Delinquency Judge Rulon W. Clark 663
Toning Up the Home—$37.06 674
Highlights In Kitchen Planning Lalene H. Hart 676
Sugar and Spice and Everything Nice Anna Prince Redd 681
Why Go To Relief Society? Clarice G. Sloan 689
Fiction
In Time of Harvest Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 668
Rebellion For Alicia Beatrice Rordame Parsons 683;
General Features
Some Literary Friends ("The Right Thing") Florence Ivins Hyde 691
'The Sunny Side of the Hill (A Little Shelf of Books) Lella Marler Hoggan 695
Happenings; Annie Wells Cannon 698
Editorial:
The Motivating Spirit of Relief Society 699
Notes to the Field:
Mormon Handicraft Beautification Notice 701
Notice to Magazine Representatives 703
Music Department (Sing Now More Than Ever) Beatrice F. Stevens 704
Excerpts from Life of John Taylor Selected by Marianne C. Sharp 705
Lessons
Theology—The Power of Loyalty—John Taylor and His Loyalty to Joseph Smith 706
Visiting Teacher—The Democracy of the Priesthood 709
Work and Business—Good Posture 710
Literature—The Tree of Liberty = 712
Social Service—Am I A Housekeeper or A Homemaker? An 718
Mission—Who Shall Take the Prophet's Place? 722
Poetry
Fertility Mabel Jones 657
The Birth of Irrigation Celia Anderson Van Cott 662
Appreciation Alice Morrey Bailey 667
The Weaver Della Adams Leitner 673
Accomplishments Courtney E. Cottam 680
Hands Grace Zenor Pratt 688
Gallant Day Reba S. Wetzel 690
Petition Gertrude Perry Stanton 694
Realization Eunice J. Miles 697
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address,
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
PIONEERS ALL
Along the trails, afoot, by ox, A rugged band undaunted came To find surcease from foes; oppressed By all the woes of humankind.
They did not question those who led, But staunchly looked toward the west And hills, from whence their courage came.
Lead on brave hearts! Your faith in self And God, from whom all goodness comes, Shall beckon us to firmer ground.
Not ours the paths of yesterday, Through foes and wilderness and sand, But struggles of the heart and mind O'er problems of a troubled world Of which we harbor no command.
We shall look up, and out, and on, Where hills reach up to touch the sky. We shall not falter in our faith Nor lose our courage by the way; For lo, we stand undaunted, too.
And though our anxious faces turn To meet the dawn of rising sun, We still would pioneer in truth By keeping faith with you of old And looking toward the hills, the west, And God.
—Irene R. Davis.
SALT LAKE REGIONAL GRAIN ELEVATOR Dedicatory Service. August 27. 1940
The building of this elevator was a project of the Church welfare program. All wards in the Salt Lake Region contributed labor and funds for its construction. Wheat purchased with Relief Society funds will be stored in the elevator. As a part of the dedicatory service. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.. Broke the seal on the first car load of Relief Society wheat to be stored in the elevator.
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII OCTOBER, 1940 No. 10
Church Grain Elevator Dedication
Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
HISTORY for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and for the National Woman's Relief Society was made at the dedication on August 27, 1940, of the great Church grain elevator, located at 751 West Seventh South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. At the services, which were held at noon, on the platform of the elevator many of the General Authorities, members of the General Board of the Relief Society and the General Church Welfare Committee sat facing carloads of wheat, which were later emptied into the huge compartments of the elevator when President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Broke the seal on the first carload of wheat. Thus did golden grain share the spotlight on this memorable occasion with the new steel and concrete structure that will hold 318,000 bushels of grain "which could be held as a great reservoir against emergency."
The Church built the elevator, using ninety per cent welfare labor. The Relief Society contributed the funds from their Relief Society Wheat Fund, for the purchase of wheat which will be known as Relief Society wheat and will be stored in the elevator.
Several hundred people stood with bowed heads as President David O. McKay offered the stirring dedicatory prayer. Some in the audience were the workers who had labored on the new structure. Many in the group were Relief Society officers and members, and these women noted with satisfaction and pleasure the reference to the Relief Society when President McKay said:
"We are grateful for that spirit which has prompted the organization of the Relief Society, from those early days until the present, to render service to the needy, to comfort the sick and the afflicted, to give blessings to those who are downcast and sorrowful, and whose heartstrings are strained in the presence of death. Truly, Heavenly Father, these our sisters, members of the Relief Society, thy handmaidens, have set an example not only to the Church, but to the entire world in thus losing themselves for the good of others, in sacrificing their own comforts and denying themselves of necessities, if necessary, to bless and bring solace and comfort to those less blessed than they.
"We are grateful that when the time came that the government needed wheat for those who were suffering, who were hungry, the spir-
COUNSELOR DONNA D. SORENSEN AND PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN (At dedicatory service of grain elevator)
it of giving prompted the Church to give the wheat to bless those in need.
"We are grateful for the inspiration that came to the First Presidency to recompense the Relief Society for this wheat, so that the sisters in giving still retained."
As the beautiful prayer of President McKay continued, a feeling of security and thankfulness for the successful culmination of a tremendous project was felt in the hearts of all assembled, and he voiced the appeal of all in his concluding words:
"Now, Holy Father, we have met here to dedicate this spot of ground, to dedicate this building for the express purpose of storing the staff of life. Accept it, Holy Father, as one expression of our devotion to Thee. May the spirit of cooperation, the spirit of service, ever be characteristic of everything which is done in connection with this building. May it remain solid and firm, from the piles under the foundation to the roof of the highest pinnacle.
"May the machinery be kept intact; but above all may it stand as a monument to Thee of the service and devotion of Thy people, and may everybody who has anything to do with it realize that every effort should be impregnated with the spirit of love, devotion, and service. Banish from their hearts, O God, any desire to cheat, or rob, or to take advantage of one another.
"May this be an edifice of service, a contribution of love; and as such, we dedicate it unto Thee and ask Thy blessings to attend all who have contributed to its erection, and all who may contribute to the keeping of these bins filled with the wheat which is considered necessary to be preserved, preparatory for judgments that await the nations of the earth."
THE interest of the women of the Relief Society in wheat dates from the time when the first editorial on wheat or grain-saving appeared in the Woman's Exponent, October 15, 1876. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells wrote the editorial after she had been advised by President Brigham Young that wheat gathering and storing was to be given as a special mission to the women of the Church. After admonishing the women to accept this mission, Sister Wells commented further:
"In whatever women undertake they are generally earnest, and our advice would be immediately without any delay (except such as is unavoidable), to commence to carry out President Young's counsel in this matter. Where there is a will there is (almost
CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR DEDICATION
invariably) a way, and in this matter there should be a personal and individual as well as a general interest. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on this earnestness depends much of the success of whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you determine to do anything, of whatever name or nature, first be sure it is the proper thing to do, and then without losing time bring your energies into immediate requisition and you are almost sure to succeed."
As already indicated, because women of the Church in these early days did take their responsibility seriously and earnestly, a fund was accumulated which will be used to purchase wheat for storage. An intimation of this action was given by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At last April General Conference when he quoted from a letter written in 1918 concerning "the reinvesting of the Relief Society Wheat Fund," which letter was signed by the President of the Church, the Presiding Bishop of the Church and the President of the Relief Society. The last
655
two paragraphs said:
"The money received for the wheat the government has taken must be kept in the banks and draw interest. In no case should it be loaned out or used for any purpose whatsoever other than the purchase of wheat, as it is a sacred trust fund which can be used only for the purpose for which it is donated.
"When the time comes to again invest this money in the purchase of wheat, you will be advised of it by the Presiding Bishopric and the General Board of Relief Society."
At the dedicatory services, Elder William E. Ryberg of the Church Welfare Committee, who had charge of the construction of the elevator and the installation of equipment to weigh, wash, dry, mix and sort grains, gave the following facts: The grain elevator is one of the most modern in the nation; 15,000 bags of cement were used to make the concrete which was poured in one continuous process with three shifts of men working twenty-four hours a day for eight and one-half days; not a single reportable accident occurred during the construction.
GROUP IN ATTENDANCE AT DEDICATORY SERVICE OF GRAIN ELEVATOR (Railroad cars are loaded with wheat purchased with Relief Society funds. The Salt Lake Regional Storehouse is shown in the background of picture.)
656
In her inimitable way, General President Amy Brown Lyman, of the National Woman's Relief Society, related the history of grain-storing in the Latter-day Saint Church. She told of the call which Brigham Young made on the women of the Church, through Sister Emmeline B. Wells, whom he asked to lead out in the movement. In speaking of Sister Wells, President Lyman said, "That Mrs. Wells, later the fifth General President of the Relief Society, regarded this unique and unusual assignment as one of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940
most important and serious undertakings of her life, can be attested to by her intimate friends. She felt that it was an inspired call... And her convincing editorials inspired zeal and earnest effort which were remarkable and which launched successfully this important movement."
President Lyman recounted the various ways by which the Relief Society sisters secured wheat: gleaning in the fields, direct contributions of both cash and wheat by individuals, sale of such items as cheese, jams, quilts, rugs, carpets and Sunday eggs. All these swelled the wheat fund until at the close of the World War, when all the wheat had been converted into money, there was centralized at the Presiding Bishop's Office $412,000, which became known as the Wheat Fund. The interest on this money has been used for maternity, child welfare and general health purposes throughout the wards of the Church for the past twenty-two years.
President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., the concluding speaker at the dedicatory exercises, informed the people that the wheat which would be put in the elevator would be used for storage and not for the purpose of trading in wheat. He continued:
"There is a good deal of expense incident to the storing of wheat after the building is erected and the wheat is in it. And so it was determined, after consulting the Relief Society, that the Church would undertake to meet the cost of storage. So far as possible, the principle that has already been used in erecting the building will be used in providing the labor necessary and incident to the storage of the wheat; namely, welfare labor. It was also decided
CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR DEDICATION
that inasmuch as at times there may be some loss incident to replacing wheat, the Church would bear the cost of the replacement and stand the loss. As a reciprocal principle, it was determined that if at any time any profit is made as an incident of replacing wheat, that shall be used to meet the expenses incident to the storage of the wheat.
"The use of a part of what has been called the Wheat Fund for this purpose of storing wheat, that is, for the buying of the wheat which is to be stored here, will, of course, reduce the funds which are on deposit with the Presiding Bishopric, and upon which they have been paying to the Relief Society an interest charge. You Relief Society sisters will miss that extra money which you have heretofore had, but I am sure you will not begrudge it to the people of the Church who are now the beneficiaries of a part of that fund, the whole Church; for that, of course, was the purpose for which the original contribution was made.
"To me this building represents even more than the things I have already named; it represents a fundamental principle which lies behind all of our work. I have in mind the spirit of cooperation. I wish it were possible for all of us to appreciate what a united effort on the part of the people of this Church would mean. If we could do in all of our activities what had to be done here in order that this building could be erected, if we could subordinate our individual likes, our individual preferences, our individual will, to the will of the one great motive which drives us forward—the spreading of the Gospel and our own salvation, if we could mass the power of the Priesthood and the power of the sisters behind that one great project, which is why the Church is created, in the way in which that was massed by those who worked here for the erection of this building, I am telling you that we and the world would have a different story to tell."
To many Latter-day Saints a feeling of security will come when they realize that the Church is storing wheat in such an elevator, which stands as solid, visible evidence of the wisdom and foresight of those who lead the people of the Church. Members of the Relief Society will echo the words of President Amy Brown Lyman when she said: "The Relief Society women everywhere will approve of this action, feeling that it is fulfilling the original purpose for which wheat was gathered."
657
FERTILITY
Mabel Jones
Just as the branch that bears good fruit Draws strength from roots in deep rich sod, So I my sustenance recruit From firm and living faith in God.
For he who has no touch with Him, Who thinks to walk his way alone, Just like the severed withered limb Is parched and barren and unknown.
The Church Grain Elevator Tells Its Story
Dr. Royal L. Garff
MY home is now in Chicago. Ten years ago I left Salt Lake City to pursue a program of study at a great mid-western university. I have a deep love for my home state and its people, and my visits to Utah have been as frequent as possible. Two years had elapsed since my last trip, however, so I made it a point to spend my brief vacation there this summer.
Whenever I go West, there is one friend I never fail to see. He was bishop of my ward when I left on a mission to New Zealand. To help me make ready for this great experience, he taught, encouraged, and inspired me. He kept in touch with me during my college career, seeks me out whenever I come home to visit the folks. He is now associated with the men and women who are the forces in the rapidly expanding Church welfare plan.
I speak of him and me by way of introduction to this story, to show how his friendly interest enabled me to behold a great manifestation of how a Church, guided by inspired leaders, can apply true religious principles to the solution of man's material problems.
As I was conducted through the various projects, I was given a candid-camera picture of the welfare center with its remarkable new Administration Building, canning and sewing facilities, hog farm, poultry project, root cellar (to mention but a few), and the wonderful new grain elevator, with its capacity of 318,000 bushels. I was lifted up with pride over the achievements of my Church.
As I was shown the grain elevator and told the story of its construction, it seemed to me that it symbolized the life of a good man. So real was this analogy that the elevator might have been a growing, living thing. It had become great through the application of definite, inexorable laws —just as you and I can grow fine through obedience to the principles of the Gospel.
Buildings and men are both insecure without good foundations. When it was discovered that the site for the elevator was on an old lake bottom, a forty-foot pile was driven into the ground in search of hardpan. The first and then a second pile of the same length failed to reach such an objective. Finally, an idea was hit upon that would make the elevator like a ship afloat, giving it absolute security against earthquake, the flexibility to withstand any shock, Six hundred twenty-six pilings, forty feet long, were driven into that old lake bottom, covered over with a layer of coarse gravel one foot deep, tied together with steel reinforcing, and finally secured with a three-foot slab of cement atop the entire foundation structure.
Here were intelligence, knowledge, faith, and works—all employed in preparing a sound beginning for the super-structure. In this same way, every faithful Latter-day Saint must drive the pilings of his life into fundamental principles, securing himself against
THE CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR TELLS ITS STORY
his weaknesses, fortifying himself against the temptations, the doubts, the trials, that eventually beset every individual. As the piles were bound together with gravel, steel, and concrete, so must the true Latter-day Saint bind the principles of the Gospel to his heart with all the intelligence, knowledge, faith, and works that he possesses. He must also use the same principles in binding himself to every other worthy member of the Church, so that the Church as a whole can maintain a united, unbroken front against the ever-increasing pressures of worldliness.
The foundation established, the next step was the construction of the elevator itself. To do this, a wooden tower was built, extending into the air 240 feet. Its function was to carry the large bucket from which cement was to be poured evenly over the entire building as it grew taller and taller. As the elevator went up, the tower went up, section by section, each section being held steadily in place by strong wire cables. With every addition to the height of the tower, length was added to the cables and anchors laid to tie the tower to the building itself. The same short cables could not secure a growing tower against the increasing onslaughts of the wind and the intensification of the pull of gravity. By the time the height of the tower neared 200 feet, the cables required to hold it solidly in place had to be 500 feet long and moored into the earth at a great distance. The anchors, too, had become heavier, thereby providing increasing strength against instability and shakiness.
The symbolism in the erection of the tower suggests that each member of the Church needs strong and fast
659
anchors in the development of a stable, righteous life, and cables must be lengthened and anchors strengthened as the individual grows into maturity and broadens in experience. When the individual begins life, or first becomes a member of the Church, comparatively short cables and light anchors will be adequate to his spiritual needs; but as responsibilities increase, as new and heavier burdens are shouldered, as one is ordained to the priesthood, called upon a mission, appointed as an officer of the Relief Society, set apart to lead others, marries and rears a family, has more and more opportunities to ennoble his or her nature and shine as a beacon light in guiding others, cables must be lengthened and anchors weighted. As he extends the liberty and the freedom with which judgment is exercised and free agency used, moving in ever larger and wider spheres of action, the Latter-day Saint must multiply the number of laws to which strict obedience is given. The laws are the cables and anchors with which one builds to the mountaintop of Sainthood and Godhood.
One keen thinker has stated it thus: As man increases the number of laws he obeys, he increases in richness of nature, in wealth, in strength, in influence. Nature loves paradoxes, and this is her chief paradox—that he who stoops to wear the yoke of law becomes the child of liberty, while he who will be free from God's law wears a ball and chain through all his years.
When the elevator was completed, the cables were cut, and the tower fell with a frightful crash, dashing itself into ten thousand splinters. The destruction of the cables, and then of the tower itself,
660
reminds one of the lives of such distinguished men as Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon and a score of others, who were once towers of strength, and who attained great heights of privilege and opportunity; but neglect, inactivity, and sin cut the cables that held them in their precious relationships to man and God. Without their moral and spiritual cables and anchors, these men became the weakest and the most ordinary of mortals, shorn of greatness, groping in darkness, bruising their feet against the sharp rocks that lay along the path of a confused earth life.
The bins which were to hold the grain were built to a height of 116 feet. Job forms about four feet high, of the shape the elevator would eventually take, were made. One hundred eight steel rods, one inch in diameter, around which the concrete was to be poured, were inserted into the forms. The forms were raised, as the walls of the bins increased in height, by jacks which worked from above. The forms had to be raised systematically, continuously, uniformly, and exactly one-fourth of an inch at a time by actual measurement. This tedious operation was necessary to insure the pouring of the concrete in one solid block. If the forms had not been raised correctly, the building would have been misshapen, eventually the forms would have frozen, and the work already done would have been partially or entirely lost.
In each of the three eight-hour shifts, fourteen men were assigned to the manipulation of the jacks. Guiding the work of this group was a captain who gave a signal every fraction of a minute for the turning of the jacks, so that the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940
forms could be raised upward. Each man in the crew managed eight jacks. They were his sole responsibility. Perfect cooperation and accurate timing were necessary during the entire period of the pouring. If but one man failed in his duty, the job would have been delayed and probably ruined.
THE young engineer, a specialist in the construction of grain elevators, was astonished when he learned that the elevator was to be built with welfare labor. He frankly said that he was certain that it could not be done. His objections, however, were not taken seriously. He was informed of how the Latter-day Saints had learned to build splendid structures like the Temple and Tabernacle long before he was born. He was assured that they were again on the job, determined to build a grain elevator. He said that the kind of labor he would recommend could build this elevator in fifteen days and gave it as his opinion that if the work could be completed in somewhere near this length of time, it would be satisfactory to use welfare labor. He was astonished when the enthusiasm and intelligence of the workers made it possible to complete the project in eight and one-half days.
Here again is a great lesson to be learned. What this diligent, enthusiastic body of men did through the finest kind of cooperation can be done in any line of religious work and spiritual activity in the ward, stake or Church itself. Cooperation in the ward, which is the fundamental organizational unit in the Church set-up, is of the highest importance. The bishop of the ward may be regarded as the coxswain—the captain who calls the signals, gives the instructions, keeps everything moving in harmony. Just as the workmen had to heed the captain on the grain elevator when he shouted his orders, if the jacks were to be turned at the right time and the erection of a sound, useful building made possible, so the Latter-day Saints must learn to heed the counsel of their bishops and inspired leaders. Only in this way can we be exalted and accomplish deeds worthy of our high mission and principles.
The construction of the headhouse, sixty feet above the top of the bins, was the most dangerous of all the work. Men actually took their lives in their hands as they erected the forms into which the concrete was to be poured, and again as they tore them down after the concrete had set. By taking two precautions, life was saved and workmen preserved against danger. Each man was examined to make certain that he was physically capable of undertaking such a task, and those entrusted with this work were securely anchored with cables and ropes so that they could not fall.
This part of the work also affords us a worthwhile thought. Young people, and scholars in our Church in particular, are prone to venture into dangerous speculations that are not in harmony with the revealed principles of their religion. Such adventurers often exceed the power of their faith to keep a firm grip on the cables and ropes of spiritual life. They fall from their hazardous, insecure positions, and suffer spiritual death.
Of all the organizations in the world, our Church is the leading advocate of learning and education. On the basis of population, more of our young people secure advanced training than do the young people of any other church. They are inspired by such Church teachings as, "The glory of God is intelligence", and "No man can be saved in ignorance." In venturing into the fields of higher learning, however, the experience of the men on the grain elevator suggests that these young people and scholars should secure themselves with the cables and ropes of prayer, humility, and constant work in the Church as they take off into the dizzy heights of worldly learning.
THE construction work done, the machinery was installed and the elevator worked perfectly, emphasizing the fact that if we are careful in building a firm foundation, in anchoring our lives to the principles of the Gospel and its abundant activity, we can move forward to perfection, happy in the knowledge that we are following in the footsteps of the Savior of us all.
Our responsibility is illustrated in the experience of President Faunce while he was at Brown University. He was concerned over a wild, reckless boy. One day this youngster was working in the biological laboratory examining a slide containing bacteria. In quick succession, he observed one generation after another of those tiny creatures pass before his eyes. "Suddenly", said Pres-
661
ident Faunce, "the boy stood up and walked around the room, saying to himself, 'I see it now. I am a single link between the generations before me and those who may come after. I WILL NOT BE A ROTTEN LINK IN THAT CHAIN!' "
THE CHURCH GRAIN ELEVATOR TELLS ITS STORY
We all have a heritage. We are building links in the chain of the Church and of our families. We must make certain that these links are sound, virile, worthy to become a part of the splendid heritage that is to be passed on to our children. As each step in the building of the great Church elevator could be taken only by applying fundamental principles of construction, so must each day of our lives be lived in accordance with the wonderful principles of the Gospel. In the words of the Sanskrit, we must—
662
Look to this day! For it is life, the very life of life. In its brief course lie all the verities and realities of our existence: The bliss of growth, The glory of action, The splendor of beauty. For yesterday is already a dream, and tomorrow is only a vision; But today, well lived, makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, And every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day! Such is the salutation of the dawn.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940
Editor's Note: This article was secured through the cooperation of Elder Roscoe W. Eardley, Church Storehouse Supervisor
THE BIRTH OF IRRIGATION
Celia Anderson Van Cott
In the soil of the sun-parched valley, Sown by the Pioneer's hand, Seeds of grain lay cupped within The dry and wind-swept land.
Hot waves lashed the salty shore, The water holes burned dry; Cattle stood in huddled groups, No rain fell from the sky.
Across the dusty barren plain, Released from the river's flow, Water was brought to the arid land So their withered crops could grow.
Where yesterday was naked soil, Through toil and inspiration, Green shoots of grain appulse with life Are succored by irrigation.
Juvenile Delinquency
Rulon W. Clark (Judge of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City, Utah)
WHEN one speaks of "Juvenile Delinquency," we immediately become interested because we are all intensely concerned about the welfare of young people. It is true that we all dislike to think of our children being delinquent, but because of our desire to prevent delinquency and crime and to see the young people develop into good citizens, we give the subject a great deal of attention.
Youth is the hope of our Church, our state and our nation. In him lies the eternal hope of salvation and the promise of a better world. He is full of hope and ambition to climb to new and better heights. And is filled with energy to accomplish big things. It is the proper direction of these divine qualities which gives us the deep concern.
From early morning to late at night the child is constantly DOING THINGS. What he does and how he does it plays an important part in his future life— his habit formations and his attitudes toward people and things.
When we think of "Juvenile Delinquency," some of us are inclined to think of children committing crimes. This is not true. The laws of Utah state, "No adjudication upon the status of any child by the Juvenile Court shall operate to impose any of the civil disabilities ordinarily imposed by a conviction in a criminal case, nor shall any child be deemed a criminal by reason of such adjudication, nor shall such adjudication be deemed a conviction." (14-7-31)
What then is meant by "Juvenile Delinquency?" "Juvenile" is used synonymously with "child," and the statutes of Utah define a child as "a person less than eighteen years of age." Webster's dictionary defines delinquency as failure, omission, or violation of duty; the commission of a fault or crime. From a religious point of view, we may think of delinquency as the commission of sin, and sin as defined by Dr. James E. Talmage in his book, Articles of Faith, Article 2, Lecture 3, is, "Sin is any condition, whether consisting in omission of things required, or in commission of acts forbidden, which tends to prevent or hinder the development of the human soul."
But from a legal point of view, the delinquent child is "a person under eighteen years of age who had violated any state law or any ordinance or regulation of a subdivision of the state; a child who by reason of being wayward or habitually disobedient is uncontrolled by his parents, guardian or custodian; a child who is habitually truant from school or home; a child who so deports himself as to injure or endanger the morals or health of himself or others."
It will be noted that even the statutory definition of delinquency is liberal in its scope, and its aim is to prevent children from becoming criminals. In fact, the legislature in creating Juvenile Courts in Utah said, "The care, custody and discipline of children before said courts shall approximate as nearly as possible that which should be given by
664
their parents; delinquent children shall not be treated as criminals but as misdirected, misguided children needing aid, encouragement and assistance," But even though the Court is granted broad powers in its jurisdiction, it must first be determined that a child has committed such an act within the meaning of the statute as to make of him a delinquent before making such adjudication.
A GREAT many cases are referred to the Juvenile Court during the course of a year, many of which should never be recorded. It requires a great deal of patience, understanding and wisdom in the caring for children, and simply because they make mistakes, have accidents or are careless is no reason why they should be adjudged to be delinquents. For instance, if the boys in the neighborhood are playing ball in the street or vacant lot and a ball is accidentally batted through a window, there is no reason for referring any or all of the boys to the Juvenile Court. It is true that the owner has sustained a loss and should be compensated for the damage, but the matter should be settled without Court action. In fact, the Court can not enforce the settlement for damages. The child has no paying ability, and the parents are not liable for the torts of their children except under certain conditions which make them so closely related to the offense as to become a part of it.
The seriousness of a case does not depend alone upon the seriousness of the offense, but upon the child's attitude toward the offense, upon his outlook for the future, and upon the circumstances surrounding him
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940
which will direct his activities toward good citizenship. A sixteen-year-old girl was brought before the Court upon a petition alleging that she was ungovernable in that she had run away from home and refused to return. The police had picked up the girl after she had been away from home a few days and brought her to the Court. Her parents were summoned to appear, and at the hearing the girl admitted that on the specified date she ran away from home without the knowledge or consent of her parents, and that she did not want to go back home. When asked why she left home, she said, "I left home Saturday morning, because my mother tells me to get out every day, and I just couldn't stay home any longer. I went to my girl friend's and asked her to run away with me. We went to the freight yard and got in a freight car and slept all night. The next morning we were turned over to the police. I like my dad and would live with him any time, but I never can live with my mother any more. The only reason I ran away is on account of Mother. She has never treated me like a mother should. She does not whip me, but she tells my older sister to do so, and she beats me. A little while ago she hit me over the head with a milk bottle. We quarrel all the time. My sister lives in the same house with us, and she is on relief. Her husband is in California in prison for robbing a bank. My father buys my clothes as Mother will not give me a thing. She says she wishes I were dead or had never been born. I told her I was going to run away, and she said she wished I would and would never come back."
Investigation of the above noted
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
case revealed that there were nine in the family living in three rooms in the upstairs of an old frame house. It was extremely hot weather. There was but very little furniture, and it was poorly kept and inadequate. There were no rugs on the floor, no curtains or draperies at the windows, and the bedding was dirty. The house was unkempt and infested with bugs. The girl was attractive looking and full of energy. She had very few clothes or personal belongings and had no privacy, which she greatly resented. The mother had not lived a life that was a worthy example for the child. The child resented all of these conditions; she wanted to live as other girls of her acquaintance lived, to wear respectable clothes, to bring her friends into the home and have them treated cordially, but above all she wanted a mother in whom she could impose confidence and respect.
It is evident that the girl referred to did not need punishment because she ran away from home. She needed treatment to help her adjust herself to a situation where she could live without a constant conflict and feeling of defeat, and where she could grow and develop as a normal child should.
"Children feed on love, as they do on fresh air", writes D'Alve. "The case book of our Juvenile Courts and Children's Clinics are full of instances of children literally starved for affection. What happens in starvation? Among other things, poisons are generated within the organism. This is exactly what happens in the case of children starving for affection. They develop sulkiness, suspicion, meanness, lying, and thievery. When, for some misdemeanor or other, they are brought
665
before the bar of justice, they are ostensibly "bad" children. But most of us who know anything at all about psychological processes, know that they are not bad, in the sense of being wilfully vicious children; they are affectionately undernourished. In most cases, when such children are wisely placed in an environment where they receive a normal amount of affection, the entire life-pattern changes. Sulkiness gives way to cheerful response, lying and thievery to honesty; selfish seclusiveness and downright maliciousness to affectionate cooperation. Love, sentimental though this may sound, is like sunshine; it tends to open up, to unfold the organism. That is why the unloved life in adulthood is so often itself unloving. It builds a shell around itself—of bitterness or suspicion or despair. It shrinks, contracts, withdraws."
WE often hear the question asked, "Is a child delinquent who smokes?" The answer is, "Yes." Not only is it unlawful for a child to use tobacco, but it is unlawful for him to buy, accept or have it in his possession. The law is as follows: 103-40-5 "Any person under the age of twenty-one years who buys, accepts or has in his possession any cigar, cigarette or tobacco in any form, or any opium or any other narcotic in any form, is guilty of a misdemeanor, or shall be deemed a delinquent child, as the case may be." It is also unlawful for any adult to furnish, give or sell tobacco to a minor. The law on this subject is as follows: 93-1-12 "Any person who furnishes to any minor by gift, sale or otherwise any cigarette or cigarette paper or wrapper, or any paper
666
made or prepared for the purpose of making cigarettes, or any tobacco of any kind whatsoever, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $299 or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment."
The same question and answer applies to the use of liquor, including beer. The laws says, "Alcoholic beverages shall not be given, sold or otherwise supplied to any person under the age of twenty-one years," and "It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer to any person under the age of twenty-one years."
As injurious as the use of liquor and tobacco might be on the physical body of the user, it is my opinion that their use has just as harmful, or even more injurious, effect on the user intellectually and morally. The fact that one knows that it is wrong and unlawful to use them and consciously violates the law, creates a conflict within himself that is harmful. It requires him to make a decision whether he will violate the law of health and the law of the state on the one hand or abstain from the unlawful and harmful practice. If he does decide to use them, he then becomes conscious of the fact that he is a law violator and is impairing his health. This creates a disrespect for the law of the state and the law of health. This conflict becomes particularly acute in the minds of members of the Church, since they are taught from their early youth to honor, obey and sustain the law of the land and that the use of tobacco and liquor is in violation of the mind and will of the Lord to his people as revealed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940
through the Prophet Joseph Smith. The words of the Lord continually come to their minds, "I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation, that, inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father. And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill."
The conflict thus created becomes an important part of the life of the child. He is conscious of his wrongdoing and has a feeling of guilt which sets him apart from others whom he feels do not have the same feeling and who are not committing the same offenses. He, therefore, withdraws from these persons and seeks the company of those who are doing the same thing he is. He is also conscious that he cannot participate in the ordinances of the Church nor can he perform his duties in Church organizations, and consequently he stops his Church activity. If he attempts to continue in these activities, he tries to justify himself in his wrongdoing and begins to criticize others who do not do as he does. Particularly is this true of those in authority over him and especially those who talk of the harmful effects or the violation of the principles of Church doctrine in his presence. This creates a feeling of dissatisfaction and resentment, and he is forced sooner or later to withdraw from active participation in Church activities. The extent of withdrawal, of course, depends upon the attitude of the person and his willingness to repent.
JUVENILE DELINQUENCY
PSYCHIATRISTS tell us that a child has a mental life far more delicate and complex than his physical body, far more difficult to keep in order, and much more easily put out of adjustment. Unfortunately, however, many parents who would insist on the best medical advice available when the child manifests symptoms of illness may overlook bad habits and behavior problems which are symptoms of serious personality difficulties. Mental distortions and emotional instability develop gradually. The twists in personality which account for failure and unhappiness are not introduced into the life of the individual suddenly and unexpectedly. These traits spring from dissatisfaction with conditions imposed on children or from behavior patterns arising from conflicts gradually acquired.
The matter of delinquency, then, becomes a matter of proper training and treatment rather than punishment. Mental and emotional conflicts should be guarded against. Feelings of fear and insecurity should be kept from the minds of young people, and in their stead should be implanted optimism, courage and obedience to correct principles. Wholesome activity should be supplied in which the child has plenty of opportunity to experience the joy of right living and of rendering service to others. Parents, teachers, Church leaders and prominent leaders of the community should work unitedly together toward this end; first, by setting the proper examples and second, by furnishing ample opportunity for proper training and experience in worthwhile activities. 667
The Juvenile Court cannot accomplish these ends alone. It requires the cooperation of all agencies and persons in the community working unitedly together for the welfare of youth. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints furnishes a splendid opportunity for its young people to enjoy the privileges and blessings so essential to the development of good character. It is unfortunate, indeed, that all of the Church members do not appreciate the value of it and participate actively in its program. Young people, especially, have the greatest opportunity of any people in the world by reason of their membership in the Church. We, as members of the Church, should encourage our young people to become and remain active in' Church work and take advantage of the rare opportunity afforded them by the splendid Church program. ——APPRECIATION Alice Morrey Bailey I thank the kind planning that gave me my birth In a faith and a land that allows me to meet The most exalted of men on the earth— The prophet of God as I walk in the street, In Time of Harvest Beatrice Knowlton Ekman THE light buckboard, drawn by two spirited horses, moved smoothly over the desert road. The clip-clop of their hoofs made a hollow sound like going over a bridge. A brackish stream of clear, sparkling water ran across the road or beneath it at frequent distances. It looked good enough to drink, but Clem said the water was full of mineral and sulphur. He showed Janet how it stained the rocks over which it ran. The hollow sound, he explained, was due to the subterranean nature of the country. "We are probably passing over springs and streams of underground water," he said. They had been married only a few days and were on their way to Clem's ranch, where he and his mother had lived for all of Clem's life—the place where they would make their home. The desert road stretched ahead' to disappear in the distance over the south ridge. Janet had lived in the city all her life, and this, her first view of the desert, gave her a strange impression, deepened the worry in her dark eyes. Sagebrush and greasewood reached to the south and west in endless gray, and close to the road on the east a sparse growth of cedar trees etched the slopes of the hills. Whirlwinds of dust and leaves spiralled beside them. Jack-rabbits with long pointed ears sprang up out of the brush and leaped across the road ahead of them. Blue, April sky and white clouds gave a feeling of quiet. The outlines of the range loomed ahead, and Clem slowed the horses to a walk. "There it is!" he sang out, "there's our place!" Janet felt no elation, only a strange loneliness. The distances of the desert made the bare trees and gray outlines look drab and isolated, but she managed a smile for Clem. How would she fit into this new life? How would she and Clem's mother, in the same house all the time, react? If they wore on each other's nerves, it would be quite tertible. Speaking of his mother, Clem had said, "She's been mother and father to us. When father died he left her with three children under nine years—myself and two sisters. She never gave up for a minute. She's a wonder, Janet, you'll love her." But Janet was not so sure. Her own life had been very easy and free. She had no recollection of her father. He had been dead only a year when her mother remarried. She thought of her mother married to Steve. After all, this ought to be a happier life than she had known with them. She snuggled up to Clem, and he put his arm around her and smiled down into her eyes with a question in his own. They came to the pole fences of the ranch. Soon they would reach the house. It was almost dark and the buildings looked indistinct and ghostly in the shadows. Clem gave her the lines while he opened the big gate that shut in the ranch from the desert. A white fence separated the house and garden from the outer ranch, and soon Clem stopped before the garden gate and lifted Janet down, IN TIME OF HARVEST He held her close. "I want you to love it so," he said wistfully. A slim, graceful woman came out of the shadows. Her face was strong and firm, like Clem's. Janet met her with shy uncertainty. Clem held them both together in his arms, and his voice was husky when he spoke. While he went to feed and water the horses the two women walked along the board path to the house. The place looked large and roomy to Janet. She could see that it spread over a great deal of surface and consisted of a story and one-half. The combined dining and living room had wide, beautifully-curtained windows. A fire burned in the rock fireplace. The table was spread with a clean white cloth, and plates were set for three. The light shone over whitewashed walls and bright rag carpet. "How cozy," Janet murmured. Mrs. Garson showed her up the stairs to her room, carrying a lighted candle and the small valise. She showed the gitl where to hang her clothes and then hurried back down the stairs to finish preparing supper. Janet stood alone in the middle of the room watching the soft darts of light from the candle. White ruffled curtains swayed at the gabled windows, bright rugs covered the clean floor. A large, white bed stood between the windows, and opposite there was a bureau with a large mirror, a chest of drawers, a wash-stand with a china pitcher and bowl. Janet washed her face and hands, powdered her fair skin lightly, rearranged her hair. Slowly she walked down the wide stairs, thinking how wonderful they looked—mother and son standing in front of the gate waiting for her. 669 N the following days, Janet had no time to be lonely. She found that the ranch had plenty of work. When it rained the roads became impassable, and Clem mended harnesses and fixed mangers and sheds. Mrs. Garson, never idle, took the whole responsibility of the housework. She mended and darned, cut and sewed carpet rags, put the house in order; when there came a moment for rest, she had her hands busy with crochet patterns or knitting. Clem had extra help for plowing and planting and for the work on the range. At first Janet rode with Clem across the hills and up into the dark canyons, but as the summer wore on riding became too strenuous. When the men were away in the hills rounding up the cattle, Mrs. Garson did the milking and the chores. Janet rebelled. She thought of her own dainty mother and the leisurely life they had shared. She thought of her own lovely room with its soft blue carpet, its books and pictures. "At least it belonged to me," she thought rebelliously, "and I am never sure that my room here does." Clem's mother, so direct, so efficient, drew down the shades in Janet's room every afternoon and straightened the rugs. She did it very graciously, but Janet resented it. "She treats me like a child. Nothing belongs to me." Janet's thoughts grew dark, but she tried to say nothing that might cause trouble. Clem was gone every morning before Janet waked, and she saw him for only a few minutes at noon. When he came in after dark for supper, tired and soil-stained, his clothes sweaty, she shrank from him. In late summer there came several 670 days of rain. Janet could not go outdoors, and it seemed to her that there was no end to the sweeping up of mud from the floors, no end to the strumming on the roof, the dripping from the windows. One evening as Janet sat by the window looking miserably out at the dark rivulets in the yard, Clem came in with a great armful of wood and dropped it down into the box. His overalls were soaked with rain, his shoes reeked of the stable. He walked slowly over to the window and put his arms around Janet. She sprank up and pushed him away. "Don't touch me," she screamed. Then, at his hurt look, she began to defend herself. "How could you bring me to this place? There is nothing here but hard work. I hate it, I tell you!" He stared at her, uncomprehending, his eyes filled with pain and surprise. He brushed his hair back. "What rights do I have here?" Janet stormed. "This is your mother's home, not mine. I want to go back to Mama. I won't stay here any longer!" Then, without even searching Clem's eyes for an answer, she ran sobbing upstairs. When she had cried herself into hysterics, she began to feel a little frightened and ashamed. She heard the locust boughs tapping against the windows. 'The rain had ceased. There was no sound from downstairs, but presently she saw a light flow out from the big room below and slant across the garden. She heard Clem's step on the stairs. He in came slowly, carrying a tray spread with a steaming, warm supper. Janet looked at his stricken face RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 and wondered if he had told his mother about her sudden" outburst of temper and resentment. "It's getting nearly dark," Clem said. He went over to the bureau and lighted a candle. Then he sat down on the bed by Janet and set the tray on her lap. He made no motion to touch her. Janet began to eat, but sobs still welled up in her throat. Finally, with a great effort, Clem cleared this throat. "Janet," he said, "TIl take you home if you want to go. Just wait a little longer until after threshing. I'll take you then." In the long reaches of the night, Janet wondered what it was she wanted. What changes did she really long for? A home of her own, less work, some little luxuries, perhaps. Would these material things make life better? Would she stay on at the ranch even if the changes ' could be brought about? But she wouldn't think of staying. She wouldn't let Clem and his mother persuade her. Not even with kindness could they persuade her. She turned restlessly and drew the covers up around her shoulders. Clem lay very still, his dark head pressed deep into the pillow. She wondered if he had gone to sleep. She had a sudden impulse to say in a very small voice, "Clem, dear... I'm not going away. I can't go away now.... Our child, Clem, I must be with you when the baby comes..." But she said nothing, not a word, in the darkness. After the threshing, she would go away. SEPTEMBER faded into the am- '" ber shadows of October—the time of harvest. One afternoon when the shadows of the grain stacks lay IN TIME OF HARVEST long across the yard, Janet stood leaning against the gold wall of a stack, her eyes half closed, late sun upon her face. Mrs. Garson walked briskly along between the stacks carrying two large buckets of water to the chicken yard.; When she saw Janet, she set the buckets down and came over to the girl. She laid a hand on her shoulder. "Janet, do you feel it, too? I hoped you would in time?" "Feel what?" "The blessed peace of harvest. The comfort and security of grain in stack. Sunlight on the stubble." Janet looked steadily at the older woman. "I don't feel anything," she said, "except tiredness!" Then, inwardly amazed at her own words, she stopped short. Was there something real in the insistent spell of the land, earth holding you close, protecting you; earth singing to you? October days merged into an amber web of time. One moming Janet waked with a start. She stretched luxuriously, then edged herself back into the warm sheets. Yellow leaves drifted past the window. She heard her mother-in-law's quick step in the kitchen below, heard her giving directions to Nora, the girl who had come to help cook for the thneshers. Janet raised herself on her elbow and looked into the mirror. There were dark shadows under her eyes, and the corners of her mouth drooped. Wearily, she dropped back on to the pillow. If only she could just lie and watch the soft October sky and listen to the pigeons strutting 671 on the roof. "I'm tired before I start," she grumbled. After she had washed and combed her hair at the stand, she felt a little better. She would not have to endure much more of this desert life with its toil and inconveniences. As she went down the stairs, though, she was not happy at the thought of leaving Clem. The kitchen was still a little dark with the sun not up, but Mrs. Garson had finished her breakfast. She looked at Janet and smiled. "I didn't wake you. You seemed so tired last night. After you have cooked for threshers as long as I have you will get used to it, and it won't be so hard. Now sit down here and have some milk and cereal. I'll fix you some toast." "I’ll never cook for threshers as you have," Janet thought. But she only said, "Thank you, Mother." Janet sank into the chair and unfolded her napkin. Nora passed through the room carrying a huge dish pan full of potatoes. "Have the threshers come yet?" Janet asked, but even as she spoke the threshing machine crescendoed to a roar, and the day had begun. All morning the three women worked, chopping cabbage for slaw, peeling potatoes, making pie and cake, loading the long extension table with mountains of food. It was a relief to go into the darkened dining room to place dishes of pickles, preserves, and Dutch cheese on the table. The coolness of the room reminded Janet of the bookstore where she had worked when she first met Clem. He came in to get a book, and after she had found it for him, they had talked of books, and he had lingered and 672 browsed about the book shelves seeming reluctant to leave. When he came in for school the next September, he often bought books of her and walked home with her after work. She liked him more and more. Her mother made him feel at home, and Steve was unusually cordial. Clem talked of the ranch and of his mother. "I never could have made college if it hadn't been for her," he said, "she can move mountains. You'll love my mother, Janet." Now she was going to leave them, leave Clem and his mother. Suddenly the voracious roar of the thresher died down into a chasm of silence. The men's laughter grew loud as they came to the house for dinner. At the flowing well they began washing, taking their turns at the basin, scrubbing their faces with the roller towel. Clem sat at the head of his table. Once Janet caught his eyes looking intently at her pale face. When the men had finished the last vestiges of the pie and cake, they filed out to the grape arbor for a short rest before beginning the afternoon session. Clem lingered and put his arms around Janet. "Pretty hard on my pet," he said, "but it comes only once a year. Try to get some rest between now and supper." She heard him speak to his mother, and then the back door banged shut. She began to clear the table, but Mrs. Garson came in and took the stack of plates out of her arms. "You go upstairs, Janet, and rest a while. You need to lie down each afternoon nowadays. Nora and I can wash the dishes." But Janet slipped out through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 side door and crossed the bridge to the stackyard. She watched the men hitch the horses to the sweepstakes around the power. There wete five sweepstakes and two horses each. Clem was down underneath the center power oiling the great cogwheels. When he climbed back to his place, he saw Janet and smiled down at her. Clem stood erect on the platform and called and whistled to the horses, and they began to go round and round the circle, Clem's whip cracking above them. The cylinders hummed and the tumbling-rods and fan-belt set the whole threshing ap-. Paratus into vibration. It took up a roaring crescendo. The pitchers on the tall yellow stacks lifted the bundles of grain, and they fell with rhythmic steadiness on to the board. The bandcutter, with a sharp knife, cut the bands. The feeder caught the bundles from the bandcutter and fed them into the teeth of the cylinder, which tore them apart with a greedy roar. It was fascinating to watch. The bundles rose and fell; the straw and chaff ran up the elevator; the beads of grain poured into the sacks. Wheat—yellow wheat! Staff of life, someone had said. How beautiful it was. How safe and secure it made people. How wonderful that it came from desert fields, pure gold and shining as metal. _ The sun dipped down to the blue hills, and the air turned golden as chaff. Clem called to the horses. Some of the men caught the sweeps, pulling them back, and they slowed down. The last sheaf fell into the mouth of the cylinder, and the voice of the machine died down into the evening. IN TIME OF HARVEST Clem climbed down wearily from the power and walked stiffly to where Janet stood. The sky was a blaze of red and orange and purple. "You are my lucky piece, Janet," he said. "Ever since you came, things have gone well. Rain came and sunshine, and the wheat grew tall and heavy. We have a good crop." She looked up into his tired face. Tears streaked down her cheeks. Her mouth quivered. "Janet," he said, "now I can do for you, get what you want... 673 Around them in the golden twilight, the edge of the stackyard merged dimly into the stubble fields, and the fields merged into the arid distance. These lands wrested from sagebrush and desert were proud lands, a heritage for Clem's children and hers; his mother's heritage, too—undeniably her heritage. Janet lifted her head high. She moved close to Clem and looked up into his face. Thing for you... THE WEAVER Della Adams Leitner October weaves her tapestries, She proudly hangs them on the hills, She spreads them on the fields and dales, The woodlands with her art she fills; Blending all colors in her craft From russet shades to sunset hues, Each grove becomes a gallery With all the glory she imbues. Unstinted is the rich display With lavishness on every hand, Here beauty-loving hearts may share The rare creations she has planned. Too soon she folds them all away. But oh, we have the memories To cheer our winter days, because October weaves her tapestries. "I love this place," she said, "I want my child to be born here. Toning Up the E had been watching the slow but steady transformation of the little four-room frame cottage around the corner. It was now just six months since the Carter family had bought the place and moved in. But during this last month the home simply radiated the Carter touch. The new, blue window shutters first caught the eye. No, they were not hinged, just nailed on. A few pieces of 1 by 8 inch native pine, a handful of nails, a saw, hammer, and a little paint did the trick. Narrow sections of white lattice were at each corner of the house, on which Talisman climbing roses were reaching toward the weathered, bluegray, shingle roof. As we came nearer the house, we saw what Mr. Carter had been doing by lantern light the past week. The rickety, wooden platform and four steps at the front entrance had been replaced with a 5 by 8 foot terrace and two wide steps of beautifullycolored flat stones from the near-by ravine. They were set in cement mortar, one part cement to three parts sand, with wide irregular joints. The difference in elevation between the four original steps and the two new ones had been compensated for by raising the ground level about fifteen inches near the house. As a result, the house nestled to the ground and seemed much wider than previously. Mrs. Carter was genuinely pleased to show us inside. What tone! Nothing else seems to so well describe the simple, colorful utility of the interior. The walls of the living room had been neatly papered—she did it herself—with a two-tone plasHome—$37.06 tic wall paper, ivory and buff. The ceiling was painted white with a cold water casein base paint. A rosyhued light filtered through the peachcolored silk net curtains at the windows. Braided rag rugs spotted the waxed floor. Under each of the two west windows was a homemade open bookcase about 27 inches high by 45-inches wide, made entirely of 1 by 8 native knotty pine, just nailed together. Three small, white flower-pots of salmon-colored geraniums arranged with military precision on top of the book shelves repeated the note of color. On the east wall, near the entrance, was a built-in closet of well-seasoned tongue and grooved knotty pine. Bookcases and closet woodwork were finished with a single coat of white shellac, which brought out in pleasing contrast the reddish-brown knots against the soft yellowish grain of the surrounding wood. So simple, so effective, so inexpensive. _ Then she opened the closet door. I've never seen so much room in so little space. A deep, eighteen-inch shelf for hat boxes was above the half-inch pipe clothes rod. A twelveinch shelf near the floor, under the coats, held a saxophone and a pile of reference magazines. But the most unique part of the closet was the use of the inside of the door. Eight ordinary spring-type wooden clothes-pegs, previously dipped in Chinese-red enamel, were fastened to the door, one flat-head screw in each. Two hats, a scarf, and a pair of gloves were snapped in place, with four spares waiting for visitors' hats. The bedroom closet was much the same, with the addition of a bedding shelf, shoe racks and a tie rack TONING UP THE HOME—$37.06 —all homemade. The inside of the door had four clothes-peg hat holders, below which was suspended an oiled-silk lingerie bag. The bedroom windows were curtained with marquisette. Two windows had been recently added to the house, one over the sink in the kitchen and the other in the lean-to storage room at the back. The kitchen window was a pre-fit unit, complete with frame, sash, screen, hardware, and weather-striping. Handyman Carter had made the installation. The other window had been made by simply cutting a 20 by 32 inch opening in the board wall and tacking on from the outside a 24 by 36 inch sheet of Vitapane, trimmed with screen mould. This Vitapane is a relatively new product made particularly for hot beds — quarter-inch mesh string netting covered with a tough, transparent, waterproof material similar to cellophane. The kitchen windows, as well as the one in the bathroom, were curtained with colorful towelling. Our final questions before leaving were, "Mrs. Carter, did you have any trouble getting your husband to help make these changes? And, if you'd be so kind, what did the materials for these improvements cost?" "You know, that first question amuses me. You've asked something there. Bill is the grandest man in the world, but by nature he resists change—except with his automobile and his service station. I've' found out that the best way to interest him in home improvements is not to argue, but to make some much needed, though inexpensive, improvements myself. I started with those clothes-peg hat holders. They 675 only cost ten cents a dozen, so there was no budget argument. It was an easy step from there to the clothes rods, shelves and bookcases. Then he got the bug—wants to spend all his spare time toning up the home. Dad was that way, too. He raised an awful fuss when Mother pulled out the old clothes rack consisting of eight twenty-penny nails partially driven into a two-by-four, and installed a broomstick clothes rod, a hat shelf and some two-for-a-nickel hooks. But after a few weeks, he began bringing in the neighbors to see the new improvements WE had made., "And here's the list of materials:" Window shutters, 40 BM 1 x 8 com. Native pine, 3¢ ....$ 1.20 Lattice material...........-.. ... 1.10 Bookcases, 40 BM 1 x 8 com. Native pine, 3¢ -..... 1.20 Closet, 120 BM T&G knotty pine, Native, 6¢ .... ... ... ... 7.20 Closet door hinges and latch set...... 1.85 Cement, 1 sack ... . . ........... 85 One Silentite pre-fit window, complete | 10.00 Vitapane window, 2 lin. ft. 36 inches wide, @ 18¢ - ............... +36 Screen mould +20 Wooden clothes-pegs, spring type, 1 dozen -10 Wall paper, 18 single rolls, No. 6000, Imperial, @ 15¢...........-.--- 2.70 Wall paper paste, 3 lbs. -...............- 45 Cold water paint, 5 lbs. Permatite, casein base 80 White shellac, 1 qt........ Paint for shutters, 1 pt. Outside blue 65 Paint for lattice, 1 pt. Outside white 65 Paint for hat holders, ½ pt. Chinese red enamel.20 Living room curtains, 12 yds. Silk Net, @ 25¢ ... ... 3.00 Bedroom curtains, 6 yds. Marquisette, @ 25¢ 1.50 Towelling for kitchen and bathroom windows . ............ Go Nails, screws, thread, etc...............-. 1.30 $37.06 Highlights in Kitchen Planning Lalene H. Hart DURING the past century, industry has taken over one after another of the productive and creative tasks which used to be performed in the home. Although many of these traditional tasks have gone forever, so long as three meals per day (not including the extras) must be prepared in the kitchen for three hundred and sixty-five days each year, the kitchen still remains, in many ways, the most important room in the house. As such, it should reflect the logical thinking and planning of the homemaker and her family. There is evidence on every hand. That kitchens are being planned to meet family needs, and to allow a maximum of work to be done with a minimum expenditure of energy, time, and money. Even so, there are still many drab and uninviting so-called workshops, where women become sordid and discouraged and young people learn to dislike the many interesting and beautiful things in family life. To plan for the efficient workshop, at least two things are necessary: first, there must be a clear idea of all the routine jobs to be done in the kitchen in the order in which they are most likely to come; second, there must be wise choosing and placing of needed equipment. The kitchen has many things in it that are used everyday. To avoid unnecessary handling, all these require orderly and convenient arrangement. Kitchens cannot be so standardized as to make one size suitable for all families. The small one is generally more convenient than a large one. The exact size should be determined by the number of activities to be carried on, the size of larger pieces of equipment and, to some extent, the kind of fuel used. The chief work in most kitchens is that of food preparation, serving, and clearing up. This usually requires from one hundred to one hundred and twenty square feet. Sometimes, however, the kitchen must be used as a dining room or a laundry; then, more space is required. Even so, efficient arrangement is possible in a large, general-purpose kitchen if work centers are planned for various activities. The other extreme is the kitchenette in which every inch of space must be utilized several times. The large-size kitchen, which requires six to ten times more steps than is necessary in the preparation of a meal, could well be remodeled or rearranged, and the same area made useful for other household conveniences. Full-depth or partial partitions may be utilized to separate such activities as eating or laundry work from food-preparation centers. Ideally, the kitchen should be built around the necessary equipment. Floor space, windows, doors and other stationary features can then be planned to the best advantage, and centers for various kinds of work can be so placed that the space needed for one will not be cluttered by the equipment of another. The rectangular or "U" shape, eight to ten feet in width, is practical and lends itself to the best arrangement for the work to be done. THE modern kitchen must allow for at least five major functions; CONVENIENT KITCHEN ARRANGEMENT (Larger pieces of kitchen equipment, such as refrigerator, sink and stove, with connecting counterboards or tables and cabinets, are arranged within easy reach of one another and so that activities may proceed in regular order from right to left.) storage of food and utensils, preparation of food, cooking, serving, and clearing up after meals. This necessitates development of at least three areas of activity: first, the receiving, storing, and preparation area; second, the cooking and serving area; third, the area for clearing away, cleaning up, and disposing of garbage. In recent years, another area, which makes for efficiency, has been created to care for planning and business activities. The tendency now is to locate the kitchen away from the living quarters in order to remove the odors and noise of food preparation and to avoid any interference in this utility room. However, there should be easy access to the front and back doors (without passing through other rooms), to the dining room, to the telephone, to the stairs, and to the basement. Two doors are all any convenient kitchen needs, and these should be placed to eliminate traffic lanes. | Adequate ventilation in all weather and good lighting at all work centers, at night as well as day, may influence its location. The choice of finishes for floors, walls, and woodwork, should be durable, suitable in color, and easily cleaned. Furnishings should be selected to fit needs, suit the walls and floor space, and should pay for themselves in usefulness. The method of giving a particular worker the job best fitted to him is not easily applied to the homemaker, for she must do all kinds of work; 678 but planning and grouping of equipment to save steps and unnecessary motions will speed up her work and save much wasted energy. The placing of the larger pieces of equipment, such as stove, sink and refrigerator, with connecting counterboards or tables and cabinets, can be done in such a way that the activities may proceed in regular order and within easy reach of one another. The refrigerator and receiving table are best placed near the service door and at the right end of the room if the "U" shaped plan is used. Next, the sink and the stove are placed at the left end, nearest the dining room. Studies prove that fewest steps and motions are made in food preparation when work proceeds from right to left. Perishable food is taken from the refrigerator to the preparation counter which is located near a sink with running water and surrounded by cabinets, where all frequently used staples and utensils are conveniently kept. At this point, the food is prepared, taken to the stove, cooked, and then served. Retracing of steps is practically eliminated if this routine is followed. No kitchen, however poor, is so outdated that it will not lend itself, more or less, to a similar arrangement. In some homes, the work may have to proceed in the opposite direction, from left to right. Even so, the step retracing may be greatly reduced by good arrangement. In the cleaning-up or dishwashing center, the right to left method conserves both time and energy. Dishes are scraped, and all of one kind are neatly stacked together at the right of the sink. They are washed, drained or dried at the left of the sink and placed in convenient cupboards in close proximity to the drain counter, stove, and serving table. To either right or left of the sink, and accessible without stooping, should be found a drawer containing plenty of clean towels and cloths. Dishwashing is one of the many thrills of housekeeping when there is plenty of hot water, good soap, and absorbent, but not linty, towels. The result is clean, sparkling, sanitary dishes that are a joy to use. A storage shelf or a door rack at the sink holds soap, cleaning preparations, polishes, a roll of soft paper, dish scraper, and brushes. In the ventilated cupboard space beneath the sink may be placed pullrods for drying towels, and hooks for dish pan and drain rack. The sink of today is compact and efficient, with doors for ventilation set back six or eight inches to provide knee space where the worker sits. The back is lower and the basin deeper to eliminate splashing. The swivel type faucet is placed higher to prevent dish breaking and to make vessel filling easier. A spray is valuable for dish rinsing and vegetable cleaning. THE pros and cons of built-in or movable equipment should be weighed carefully and prices compared. There are many devices on the market which bring cabinets to their maximum efficiency. The sizes of cabinets will vary according to the needs, but the fundamental principles of construction are the same. Whether it be stove, sink, or storage cabinet, at least four to six inches toe space should be provided at its base. Besides giving comfort to the worker, this prevents marring and denting of the surface finishes. Plain, sturdy, well-built types, which exclude molding, decorative panels, HIGHLIGHTS IN KITCHEN PLANNING and other dust catchers, are most desirable and economical. How well the homemaker feels at the close of an ordinary busy day may be attributed to the height of the working centers. She will find that different activities are more easily performed at variable heights. To avoid aches and pains that come from stretching, stooping, and reaching, the working surfaces should be of the right height. No surface should be so high that stretching of arms or shoulders is necessary, or so low as to cause stooping. The old idea that the sink and table should be a standard height, no matter how short or tall the person using them, has long been discarded. If for any reason the proper height cannot be had, various devices may be employed to adjust these surfaces for comfortable usage. A sturdy step-up for surfaces that are too high, or a slatted rack for a sink that is too low will be handy. Sometimes too much space is wasted between upper and lower cabinets. From twelve to sixteen inches is ample for even tall equipment. Where cupboards are over the sink, the space needs to be increased; and open shelves may be more convenient than doors, especially if they are more than fourteen or sixteen inches in width. Lengthwise or crosswise partitions between widely separated shelves or deep drawers will give more storage space and keep utensils of the same kind grouped together. An extra shelf on four legs, or a graduated, stair-like shelf will serve the same purpose. Adjustable trays, shelves, or racks of wood, metal, or rubber may be used, and are easily removed when cabinets are cleaned. Convenient grouping of 679 needed utensils at the work centers, with everything visible and reached without moving other articles, not only saves time and effort but preserves and lengthens the life of the equipment. The finish of the counter or table tops is important. From the standpoint of cost and protection to dishes, hard, well-seasoned wood is recommended. Linoleum is medium in cost and is durable if firmly set with water-proof cement and edged with metal molding that fits tightly. Hot kettles and fruit stains may damage the surface unless care is taken. Various types of composition and glazed tiling, some of which are non-resistant to acids and stains, are also used. Stainless steel and monel metal are more expensive and may not be wholly resistant to stains. No matter what the finish may be, care and common sense in usage will determine its feasibility. In the workshop, the time element should also be considered. In comparatively few households will regular time tables be found, but it is important that a definite time be set aside for a particular operation, and that this operation be carried out at the allotted time and within definite time limits. It is the simplest and commonest habit to be extremely busy in doing one thing after another without an organized plan and, consequently, to accomplish very little. However, one should not be so bound to a system that it cannot be laid aside if more important things arise. Wise planning takes hard work out of daily tasks, utilizes the income to greater advantage, and gives hopeful and optimistic attitudes to the homemaker. It also makes possible better family health and higher standards of living. A place to do this planning may be most convenient in the kitchen. A small table or writing surface, with drawers or pigeonholes for storing things vital to household business operations, and a comfortable chair will meet requirements. Last, but not least, is the kitchen clock, and surely it is of enough importance to be given a prominent place where it can be seen and heard easily. A small portable radio may not be necessary, but it will give the worker an opportunity to hear the news of the day while doing her regular work. ACCOMPLISHMENTS Courtney E. Cottam Some folks are proud of the funniest things, And nurture their gifts until they sprout wings; They labor to polish them to their perfection, And never a flaw can one find on inspection. Minnie is proud of her grudge-holding power— She airs it quite tenderly, hour by hour; And though she has nothing of peace and contentment, She has a large portion of bitter resentment. Katie is proud of the edge on her tongue, And many a heart with her meanness is wrung; Although no one loves her, nor calls her a friend, She's so proud of her art she will never unbend. May always imparts the truth to her neighbors, But the truths that she tells are more deadly than sabers; She self-righteously rings every vanity's knell, When a pat on the back would serve twice as well. Etta's charities are like leaves in the fall, They blow on the breezes and cover us all; And the wind that blows them is never lagging— It's made by this person's incessant bragging. I know it is right to pen this ditty, As I view their foibles with tenderest pity; And while of their failings I loudly shout, It's too much bother to straighten them out! 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 Sugar and Spice— and Everything Nice Anna Prince Redd ALL my married life the particular shelf where I kept my spices had defied my most careful efforts to keep it trim. Glaring at the offending shelf—more chaotic than usual since Bud's candy-making spree of the night before— I ran my finger through a zigzag trail of chocolate that had spilled from the can, either found or replaced too hastily. Not a single jar or bottle was in place. The spice cake I'd started to make grew porous while I hunted ineffectually for the cinnamon can. My temper, equally effervescent, rose with the cake. An obese mustard jar bowed apologetically and toppled from its precarious position on top of a slender can. The spice cans, lost in a maze of bottles and jars, reproached me. Something just had to be done. Forgetful of the unfinished cake, I began to plan. In the first place, the shelf space was too wide, high, and deep—almost room enough to add another shelf. Mentally, I placed one in, but could see that both shelves would then be too low for the taller bottles and cans. What the spice cans needed was a little shelf of their own—a narrow, little shelf hung midway up and across the back. Bud came in just then, and I invited him to take a look at the disorderly cupboard. He had a shop in the basement, and he made everything from airplanes to rose trellises; maybe he could help me out. CIRCULAR SPICE SHELF 682 "Does look like 'rats and snails and puppy dog tails,' all right. Maybe some day we'll learn to put things back where we find 'em—WHEN we find 'em," he added mischievously. "How would you like to make a new kind of shelf for me," I invited. "A new kind?" he questioned. "Where'd you get on to it?" I began to explain what I had in mind about a special little shelf for the spices. "Hey, wait—you've got something there!" he yelled, tearing down to his shop like mad. He was back in a minute with his drawing board and pencil and began to sketch. What he drew was something like the accompanying illustration. By the next afternoon the shelf was cut, fitted, painted and installed. The alum, curry, turmeric, cinnamon sticks, whole cloves, etc—things used less frequently—were stowed into the spacious, square corners of the semi-circular shelf; the spice cans in a rainbow of colorful parade, stood along the front. The spaciousness of the main shelf was not only not impaired, but was enhanced by the elimination of all the small articles that clutter and shift so maddeningly. My cupboard is now the personification of "sugar and spice and everything nice." To make: Measure the space into which the new shelf is to be fitted. Choose a board the exact width of the permanent shelf (if an amateur is to make the new one). So simplified, the process of making can be accomplished easily and quickly, since no gluing of boards is necessary to get the proper width. Cut this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 board the length of the measured space, and cut two cleats the exact width of the shelf you already have. These cleats (1 inch by ¾ inch), planed well, are nailed to the cupboard ends the desired distance from the shelf below (preferably two-thirds of the way up). Now take the board that has been measured, planed and cut to fit your new shelf. Draw a semi-circle from front to back of the board, beginning 2½ inches from the front corner and continuing the curve to center back the same distance from rear edge as at the beginning on the front corner. From center back continue exactly as the first half was drawn, to the opposite corner. Cut with a jig saw along curved line. Paint shelf and cleats to match the interior of your cupboard, place shelf on cleats. If the lumber used is well seasoned, no nailing is necessary. Fill up the corners behind the curved brigade of your spice cans and—presto! You have order out of chaos! If you have a tall, narrow space in your cupboard, or just room enough to build short shelves in your new home, the spice cupboard may be arranged like a miniature stairway, the widest shelf at the bottom, each shelf diminishing in width to the top. From these shallow shelves the cans are orderly and accessible if care is taken not to make the shelf reach too high. With this arrangement the cupboard can be used for spices only; while with the circular shelf in a larger cupboard space, the entire shelf below may be utilized for containers low enough not to hide the spices. Rebellion for Alicia Beatrice Rordame Parsons ALICIA MOWBREY, as she came in from the sunshine of the wide, front porch of the house on Shelly Avenue, was so small, so delicately lovely with her slim hands and her snowy-white hair, that she looked a little like a Dresden figure. She had a letter in her hands, and there was a tender smile on her well-formed lips. The letter was from Emma. She could tell by the slanting letters on the envelope: Emma's handwriting was like Emma—big, forceful, yet nice to look at. It had always amazed Alicia that her sister had grown so tall. Almost as tall as Bart. Bart was Alicia's only son—Doctor Bart, now at a hospital in Kansas, where he was resident physician. "Dear Bart," whispered Alicia, and her eyes were soft. "I miss you so." But he couldn't be with her, and she mustn't cry. She opened the screen and went inside. As she came into the living room the clatter of a hammer made her eyes turn toward the dining room. An overalled carpenter, busy with hammer and saw, was building a window seat. Alicia smiled complacently. She had wanted a window seat in that particular window for years. She had known it would be beautiful. Through this window, Mount Olympus loomed against an azure sky like a picture painted by Maxfield Parrish. "It's purty," said the man with a grin, nodding toward the view. He was rewarded by a quick smile. "Beautiful!" Alicia moved into the dining room. Another man, in white coat and overalls, all splashed and dashed with multi-colored paint, looked up, the brush in his hands. "D'yuh think this'll be what you want, Mrs. Mowbrey?" he questioned, pleasantly. She nodded, admiring the flat white coat that was covering the dark, almost black, old-fashioned woodwork. She had disliked that walnut woodwork for years, and had always wanted to paint it. But Emma disapproved. She and Alicia had been born in the old house. When Emma married, she moved to California, leaving Alicia with their father. When he died, he had left the house to Alicia and Will. But to Emma, it was always her mother's home. "It would be sacrilege!" she had cried, astounded. "What would Mother think?" Alicia had not argued. There had never been any use arguing with Emma. It was like kicking at a brick wall. Emma never seemed to notice, but went serenely on dictating, having her own way. Standing there, Emma's letter in her hand, Alicia found herself wishing that Will could see the white paint. But Will was gone—two years, now, rest his soul! She brushed away sudden tears. In the kitchen, perched on the only chair that wasn't covered with tools, paste, and bits of wall-paper, Alicia tore the flap of Emma's letter. As it ripped under her fingers, she flushed a little guiltily. Emma didn't 684 like her fine, gray stationery torn. She always cut envelopes with a paper-knife. More than once, watching Alicia slip her finger under the flap, she had spoken words which were annoying. "I can't see why you insist on tearing envelopes. It always leaves such a ragged, ugly edge." Remembering Emma's disapproval, Alicia put the envelope hastily into her apron pocket. Then she unfolded the letter and began to read. In spite of herself, a tiny grin tugged at her mouth. How like Emma to begin her letter with, "Poor Alicia!..." Emma had called her "Poor Alicia," when Will died. She had arrived from California and taken everything into her competent hands. Alicia was thankful. Emma was so efficient. And when everything was over, Emma sat down in the living room and faced her sister. "Poor Alicia! Whatever will you do now? You can't live in this big, rambling house all by yourself, and I've got to go home. George needs me." She looked swiftly about at the big rooms, the high ceilings, papered in dark, unlovely paper. "I can't leave you here alone. You wouldn't know how to manage. Will always looked after the furnace, the watering, and the ashes." A quick resolve lifted Emma's iron-gray head: "You're coming with me." Even in her grief, Alicia had protested. "I'll be all right. Bart...." Emma's lips were tight with disapproval. "Bart can't stay much longer. He's got to go back to his hospital." She got up as though the matter were already decided. "You'll have to come to George and me. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 There's no other way. Will was so competent." Her eyes, as they looked upon her tiny sister, were tinged with love and something a little like scorn. "Why, Alicia, you've always been such a child! You'd not have the slightest idea where to turn if something should go wrong with the plumbing." Alicia trembled. As always, Emma was arranging everything. She had done so when they were children. She had done so every time she arrived from California. Alicia looked about at the old, familiar things, and cried: "But I could learn!" Emma shrugged. "Poor Alicia, I'll help close the house. George can spare me that long." She was already rolling up her sleeves, girding herself for the battle with boxes and barrels. "Will's partner, Mr. Hacket, will take care of the rest. If you want to rent it, later on, he can take care of that, also." Alicia protested weakly. "I don't want to rent it, Emma." Then seeing by the stern set of her sister's lips that it was useless to say more, she added: "I'll come for a visit. Until... " her lips trembled, "... until I get used to Will's being gone." Then she lifted her small chin, and said stubbornly, "But I'll come back, very soon." Like a mother soothing a distraught child, Emma promised, "Of course, darling, someday." Then she went to work. She packed furiously. She covered chairs and furniture with clean, white muslin. She supervised Alicia's new wardrobe. She insisted on black. Alicia would have preferred gray, or very dark blue. "I loved Will," she told her sister, with a sigh, "and I mourn him ter- REBELLION FOR ALICIA ribly, but he liked me in colors...." She dropped the subject, seeing Emma's quick frown. "I've written all my friends. They know you're a widow." Her eyes were bleakly disapproving. "I'm sure I don't know what they'd think if you arrived looking like a peacock," She smoothed the soft folds of a black dress and put it into a suitcase. Alicia was silent. After all, she was going only for a little while. TWO years crept by — pleasant years, but lonely, in spite of Emma and George; different years than those she had known at home. At home there had been so many things to do: her garden to tend, her birds to feed, her plants to water. Here, in Emma's home, there was so little. Emma saved her all she could. On wash days, Alicia sat in the living room, while Emma and a hired maid operated the big, white washing machine in the basement. Alicia begged, wistfully, to hang the things on the line where the soft, summer wind could tug at them and make them sweet. But Emma laughed protestingly. "If I didn't look after you, Alicia, you'd wear yourself out. You're just a bundle of nerves." When Alicia offered to run the vacuum, Emma smiled. "You're scarcely a mite bigger than the machine, darling. I'll do it. I'm big and strong." Alicia remembered that since childhood Emma had clung to the myth that one so tiny must be ill. "I'm well and strong, too," she remonstrated, and saw Emma's doubtful smile as she tucked a cushion behind Alicia's slim shoulders 685 and patted her hand. She fluttered about her like a mother hen with a sickly chick. "Are you sure you're comfortable, Alicia?" George coddled her too. She must wear her rubbers or take her coat every time she stepped out of the door. He must drive her where she wanted to go and wait for her for hours, whether the weather was hot or cold. She found herself hating to disturb him; and after a while, she stayed at home. Sometimes she scolded herself as ungrateful. But she couldn't help wondering, wistfully, as spring came on with its burst of pussy-willows and tulips edging the walks, if the chickadees were nesting again in the old birdhouse which Bart had built so long ago, or if the lily-of-the-valley was blooming in the south garden. Whenever she got a letter from Bart, she was actually homesick, remembering him as a small, grubby little lad, building a hut by the apple tree, playing skin-the-cat over the old shed. He wrote chatty letters, all about his work at the hospital. "It's lots of fun, darling. Work I'm crazy about. Kids, mostly. These little beggars don't know what mountains are. When I tell them that I used to live in a house where I could look out of the windows and see the Rocky Mountains every day, they just open their eyes and their mouths until they look a little like a Disney cartoon. Just think, Mom, how swell it would be if every one of these kids could live in a house like ours." Alicia felt sad, thinking about all the room, and the house being shut up and nobody living in it. It was a shame. If only those children.... "If only," she sighed, looking at 686 the letter with tender eyes, "I could fix up the house.... " But the thought was too daring. What would Emma say? But it kept coming, again and again, and as each day passed it got stronger and stronger. "I could go back and fix the place up. There are plenty of bedrooms. The children could come. When they went back, they'd be strong and healthy." Her heart ached for those sick little children, but she dared not tell Emma. Emma wouldn't hear of her going back to the old home. DAYS passed and summer came. George came home one afternoon, and nothing could conceal the excitement in his tired eyes. "They're giving me a vacation, Emma. It is sort of a business trip, too. I'm to go to Denver and look over a new project there." Denver! Alicia's heart beat swiftly. That would mean that they would be driving through Salt Lake City. She held her hands tightly together lest she clap them like a child. Oh, if only she could go, too. Emma saw the excitement in her eyes. She smiled. "I'll arrange everything, George," she promised, and could not hide her own excitement. "Alicia can come, too. She's looked a little peaked these last few days. The trip will do her good." Alicia scarcely dared put her hopes into words. She did not look at Emma as she said, "I'd like to go." And then, more daringly, "Perhaps I could stop off in Salt Lake City and visit some friends while you go on to Denver...." She stopped, seeing the look RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 in Emma's eyes. For a moment she thought perhaps her sister was going to object. But she kissed her on the top of her snowy crown and smiled kindly. "I think that's just what you need, darling. Perhaps the trip to Denver would be too much for you. You can go as far as Salt Lake, and there you can rest. George's business won't take much more than a week. We'll pick you up on our way back. You'll be so rested, you won't mind the trip home." She beamed and patted Alicia's arm. "You'll be all right." All right! For the first time in her life Alicia almost hated the word. Why should she be all right when there were so many other people in the world who were not? Why should she be taken care of, coddled, treated like a child. She was fifty years old, and never in her life had she done anything that was worth while—except, perhaps, bear her son. She was tired to death of sitting around, letting Emma and George take care of her. Her small chin was suddenly stubborn, as stubborn as Emma's. She was going home to stay! She was going home to her dark, ugly, closed-up house. She was going to write Bart and tell him to send his children there! Ten at a time, if he liked! There was lots of room! She scarcely believed she was herself as she went on making plans. She'd paint, and paper, build windows overlooking the mountains. Those children should look upon the Wasatch and Oquirrh mountains until their eyes and souls were content! She was so excited as she packed REBELLION FOR ALICIA that she didn't mind Emma telling her just what to take. "You'll need your warm coat, darling, and that little hat. It's so much more comfortable wearing a small hat in a car. And don't forget your scarf. It might be drafty." She did everything Emma said, and did it like one in a dream. Once, not meaning to, but exploding with her silent plans, she said, "I suppose Mr. Hacket has the keys to the old house." Emma gasped and looked at George. Almost as though she were talking to someone who had suddenly gone mad, her voice slightly more than a whisper, she said: "Poor Alicia! You mustn't go there! It would be too much for you! Now, darling, promise you won't go near the house." She looked at her anxiously, and Alicia smiled. "Please don't worry about me," she begged. "I'll be all right." Emma tucked her carefully into the back seat of the car and put the scarf about her throat, because George had the front window open. She looked worried. "If I thought this trip would be too much for you, I'd stay at home." Alicia was cold with fear. "Oh, no," she cried, "I'm as comfortable as can be. I've written all my friends, and I'll have a wonderful time." She smiled as Emma shut the door. They were off—off through orange groves, and walnut orchards, through cactus-filled desert, and over the mountains. Then, her friends were clamoring about her, and Emma and George were saying goodby—Emma with sundry pats and instructions. "Be sure and lie down for a little while every afternoon. Mind you don't catch cold...." Her voice 687 flew away as the car started. Alicia waved her hand. That had been two weeks ago. The letter in her hand was to tell her that Emma and George were coming back. It had been delivered at a friend's house, and a small boy had brought it to her door. Alicia finished reading: "I've been so worried about you. I thought George would be through with his business long before this or I'd have insisted that you come with us. However, tomorrow we start back home. We'll call for you at Mrs. Jackson's. I do hope you've had a good time." Good time! Alicia had a very wicked desire to giggle. She'd had the time of her life! There was bright, new paper in the kitchen and a shining, new stove. There'd be lots of cakes to bake, and cookies. The bedrooms were done. Pretty, flowered paper adorned the walls, and tiny ruffled dressing tables were ready for the girls, Animals and clowns frolicked over the paper in the boys' rooms. There were bunks against the walls, and she'd seen to it that the pillows were made of firm, strong ticking. She'd selected the slips with an eye to wear. They could have all the pillow fights they wanted. She found the hammering in the dining room had ceased. When she went in, she saw the carpenter putting away his tools. "All finished, Mrs. Mowbrey," he told her with a proud smile. She went for the broom. "I'll sweep up the shavings," she said, and got quickly to work. She was humming a little as she swept, but she 688 could not have said just what the tune was. Bart had written: "I put five little rascals on the train this morning. They ought to get there day-after-tomorrow..." She straightened suddenly, remembering that on the day after tomorrow Emma would arrive. Her heart beat fearfully. What would Emma say? There'd be a scene. She was sure of that! She stared out of the window, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 her eyes filled with tears. All of a sudden, she thought she saw the mountain smile. It was ridiculous, of course, but it dried her tears. She attacked the shavings with renewed vigor, and her humming began again. She smiled as she realized her song: "For the strength of the hills, we thank Thee...." Through the window, Bart's beloved mountain seemed to reach out hands to make her strong. HANDS Grace Zenor Pratt I still remember the grace of my mother's hands— Slender, well kept and fashioned delicately; I saw them last when they so quiet lay Still, beautifully serene upon her breast, Their work completed. And I now recall With pleasure, how my childish eyes Oft followed her at daily tasks—the quiet way She had of handling silver and old china, too, And flowers most tenderly. I can see her hands More clearly than I can recall her face— They were such lovely hands, so full of grace. Who has not loved the touch of baby hands— Like silken petals on a summer wind, Touching the heart-strings with their light caress; Exquisite hands, so small, so full of tenderness. I have loved old hands, roughened and gnarled— I have felt pathos for their toil-worn drudgery of years; And yet within those calloused palms The dignity of toil speaks clearer to my heart Than majesty of kings... The humble are so blest in many things, Why Go To Relief Society? Clarice G. Sloan (President, Portland Stake Relief Societies) "LIFE is a gift of nature, but beautiful living is a gift of wisdom." (John A. Widtsoe) Such beautifully expressed truths made me reflect a moment in the busy whirl of life to consider whether they were real and vital to me or merely empty words. I am a young mother, striving to keep pace with an adolescent daughter, a growing boy, and a questioning seven-year-old. I love life, beauty and progress. I appreciate aging treasures, yet also yearn for the new, modern things of today. I am seeking for expression and for the abundant life. Yet, in common with all young mothers, I am faced with the obvious problems. I want to make a home for my family to come to, not go from. I want to share my husband's activities in the Church and the business world, to live my religion, and to serve my country. To accomplish these things and yet find time to fulfill my own desires for individual living required careful thought and planning. Study clubs, music guilds, civic associations seemed only part of the answer. Then clearly there came to my realization the knowledge that within my own Church was an organization that combined all these objectives— an international woman's organization, founded by inspiration, designed "to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." So broad is its scope that I found, as have thousands of other women, that I could satisfy my every desire for development. The monotony of little things need no longer make life seem like a barren desert. Within my reach was an oasis, at which I could quench my spiritual and intellectual thirst. That organization is the Relief Society. That you who do not know it may also drink at its fountains, may I tell you why you should go to Relief Society? A resume of what Relief Society is and what is gained by attending it is the best answer to this question. It is the key to abundant living, a training school to help cope with life's problems, an opportunity for self-expression, service and growth. Here the beauty and dignity of the experience of advancing years mingles with the keen enthusiasms and modern viewpoints of youth. Sharing ideas with these women of varying ages enriches life, broadens viewpoints, increases faith, and enlarges understanding. The organization offers carefully outlined courses of study, including religion, social service, work-and-business (health and nutrition), literature and music. The course in religion is a challenge to mental and spiritual exertion, offering increased knowledge, added testimony, and the privilege of bearing that testimony. Social service trains in the psychology of personal adjustment, aids in harmonious living with our- 690 selves, families, and neighbors. Work-and-business affords instruction in beautifying the home through decorative art, safeguarding health through proper nutrition, aiding the welfare plan, and serving in national emergencies. Literature enables us to live with authors, to savor the seasoned wisdom of the classics, to enrich our lives through biographies. We are encouraged to write prose and poetry, create pageants, and participate actively in all creative fields. Music affords training in conducting, playing the organ and piano, and the proper singing of our hymns and classical music. That it instills in us a deep appreciation of music is best understood when we can truly say that the chorus of our Singing Mothers echoes around the world. As further outlets of expression, we may be called to serve as visiting teachers, crossing the thresholds of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 homes, sharing Gospel messages and lending aid to those in need. In the development of initiative and leadership, we have many and varied projects with which we may ally ourselves; for example, community garden work or active participation in the Church welfare program, where we may assist in the food-preparation and sewing centers, or in the care of the sick. In fact, the field of personal endeavor is almost unlimited. As a crowning glory, we have a unique social opportunity. We play, sing, work and pray together, welding ties of lasting friendship based on deep understanding of each other. The application of these aids to our lives is a gift of wisdom that will open the gate to beautiful living. Do you think that I have found what I was seeking? I will answer you as the Savior answered John and Andrew: "COME AND SEE". A GALLANT DAY Fear walks in shrouded nakedness At that bleak hour before the dawn. Doom-like his heavy fingers press With skillful accuracy upon Some festering thought. A wound of mind He scalpels to a throbbing ache. Reason seeks helplessly to find Peace in that hour before daybreak. Fear halts—his depredations stopped By burnished arrows tipped with hope. Swiftly his veils of gloom are dropped; Shadows and dread could never cope With clean sunlight. Gallantly the Day Has speared the ghosts of night away. —Reba S. Wetzel. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde. "The Right Thing" FROM the beginning of time, the question of what is the right thing has been discussed, but perhaps there has never been a time when the subject could be considered to greater advantage than today. The whole world seems to be in confusion about what is right and what is wrong. We in America hold tenaciously to the philosophy of Thomas Jefferson—"Equal rights to all men and special privileges to none." We see some other nations following the teachings of the German philosopher Nietzsche, that "might is right"—that the world holds two classes of people, masters and slaves, the code of the master being right as long as he can enforce it. We see very little practice of the ancient Golden Rule—do unto others as you would have others do unto you. The Ten Commandments, once accepted as having been written by the hand of God, are looked upon as ideas which were of value thousands of years ago. Many, many people today refuse to accept moral laws. But it is a very significant thing that if anyone encroaches upon the moral rights of these same people, they are the first to object. In a small volume, The Right Thing or How to be Decent Though Modern, Mr. William Oliver Stevens has written a very valuable and interesting discussion of this subject. In his own words, his purpose is to "stir up some real thinking on the subject of right and wrong." The book is particularly valuable for adolescents. It is valuable because national problems of right and wrong can never be solved until we have developed in young people a workable philosophy concerning the smaller things. Young people must learn that the question of what is right does not revolve around the thing they want to do, but rather around the thing that is best for the majority of the group. Mr. Stevens' style is easy. He talks to boys
and girls in their own language, and discusses the vital problems of lying, cheating, smoking, drinking, as well as the important problems of their obligations to society; such as, loyalty and fair play. Throughout the volume there is not a "preachy" sentence, The author places before his readers the simple facts and leaves it to them to make their own decisions as to what their conduct should be. Young people, wherever you go, discuss the problem of right and wrong. Their ideas are not always ours, but their interest indicates that there is a fertile field for the teaching of this most important subject. Our "ideal as Latter-day Saints has always been to teach our children to be militant in defense of the nght. We would feel well repaid if we found them battling for the right and striking 692 down the wrong just as Great Heart battled for it in the story, Pilgrim's Progress. But this cannot be done without developing in our youth a conviction that certain ethical laws are important and necessary in a well-organized society. Mr. Stevens suggests that the moral code is a "set of rules of the game of getting along with others." Laws are built up because all along our selfish desires conflict with our obligations to others. We are "honor bound" to live up to moral laws. The author says the word loyalty is one of the grandest in the language. There is loyalty to our obligation or promise, loyalty to one's country, to one's friends, but the highest type of loyalty and the kind we find least often in our sophisticated society, is loyalty to a principle. "It would be interesting," he says, "to know how many there are in the world today who would actually lay down their lives rather than sacrifice a principle," as has been so often done in past history. "Loyalty is the touchstone of the gentleman. The man who welches on his loyalties will get none from anyone else, and life without loyalties is pretty tough going." 'This quotation is typical of the easy, modern style of the author. LYING and cheating are so common that they are now looked upon with indifference. "Lying is popular because it is 'the easy way out for the sneak and the coward, and the world is full of them. Truth— telling takes what. Is known as intestinal fortitude. It is not for the weakling and the yellow. But in the end it is the easiest way out, for no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 one who tells the truth has to worry as the liar does to keep from being found out." Among many students the only humiliation to cheating is in being found out. For some unaccountable reason there is still a strong sentiment among men (and women, too) against cheating at cards. One wonders why? Every Latter-day Saint should read Mr. Stevens' chapter on stealing. Stealing has become a serious problem. Yet it would be difficult to find a person who thinks it is right for someone to steal from him. That stealing is a common habit is evidenced by the fact that one large steamship company has printed on its linen and silver, "Stolen from the Oceanic Steamship Line." Lying is another form of dishonesty which is all too common. Mothers, apparently honest in other trespects, will lie about their children's ages to save a few cents in car fare, From one subway line in New York, 620,000 slugs were dumped into the sea, which represented $31,000 in fares of which the line had been defrauded. A much more serious form of dishonesty is what we call "graft." "Wherever it exists it is a far greater menace to democracy than a whole army of Reds. All grafters are thieves, because they are taking what does not belong to them, and in addition they are cheating on the trust placed in them to administer their duties in the interest of the public. "No one will admit in principle that lying, cheating and stealing are right. Certainly no one would stand for being lied to, swindled or robbed. Even gangsters insist on honesty to each other, and yet there is an enormous amount of dishonesty SOME LITERARY FRIENDS going on in every walk of life. The guilty people are not merely the gangsters or embezzlers or burglars. They are boys and girls, men and women in the schools, colleges, clubs, churches, and places of public trust. The more one thinks of it, the more out of date the phrase common honesty' appears. What quality is more uncommon? A boy 'swipes' a quarter from his mother's bureau; a dress designer steals a fashion model in a rival's window; the banker plays the market with other people's money; and nations repudiate their debts. Again 'every-_ thing is all right if you get away with it." 'Honesty,' says the proverb, 'is the best policy. It might be well to give it a try." In many walks of life we see the lack of fair dealing. Theodore Roosevelt used to call it the Square Deal. Franklin Roosevelt calls it the New Deal. Whatever we may choose to call it, we must recognize that the other fellow has rights as important as'our own. "The curse of the whole matter in sport or business is the intense urge to win at any cost. The test of fair play is the ability to be fair to one whom you know to be a better man than you, particularly when you are losing. If you can take it then and be a good loser you are a man." SMOKING, drinking, swearing and gambling are looked upon as conventional vices. They ate not taken as serious vices today. All too often smoking is learned at Mother's knee. Yet if it was ever harmful it is still harmful, in spite of the fact that it is almost universal. Mr. Stevens tells of the physical effects of nicotine and ends by saying, "The 693 non-smoker is just now out of fashion, but he has the satisfaction of knowing he is a free man." The principal objection to swearing is that it is the profaning of something fine. The thing that has made gambling "rank low on the black list of vices is that the passion to win something for nothing becomes a vice no less gripping than that of morphine. The only man who wins consistently at gambling is the man who deals the deck and spins the wheel. The casino and the palaces at Monte Carlo were built by the money of fools." In the face of all the claims made by advertisers in favor of wines and Jiquors, the fact remains that perhaps "not one single thing has done so much to ruin lives as this same old Demon Rum. The notion that it stimulates the brain to wit and gaiety is all bunk," says Mr. Stevens. Under its influence a person's natural restraints of decent behavior are broken down and "he thinks he is being funny when he is only being a fool." To sum it up, alcohol deadens the senses and breaks down the inhibitions set up by good breeding. It tends to create a habit which, at worst, wrecks a man or woman intellectually, physically, and morally. The simplest answer is to leave it alone. As to the difficult subject of sex, Mr. Stevens discusses the consequences of immorality very plainly and intelligently, and concludes by saying, "Don't get morbid; remember that while some have. Made a mess of their lives on account of sex problems, others have licked them as they have licked every other test of their strength. Anyone can follow the crowd, but it takes a real man 694 to be different." The matter of being honest with one's self is one of the most important but difficult problems of life. Intellectual dishonesty is not uncommon. One of the hardest tests of man's self-discipline is the ability to look at something he wishes to do and see it for exactly what it is. But the man who can do this is not likely to per- "form an act that he knows is wrong. This book, The Right Thing, starts out with the accepted fact that most young people think they are not interested in religion. The author says: "It all depends on what that poor abused word means. If a man conscientiously holds to certain standards above his own selfinterest, for which he would sacrifice the things that other men desire, that man is a religious man.... The supreme test of civilization in any people, or any individual, is the point RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 they have reached in being able to tell right from wrong, and in their strength to embody that distinction in their own lives. Abraham thought God would be pleased to have him offer his choicest possession, his son. But the psalmist later said that the only sactifice acceptable to God is a 'broken and a contrite heart.' But we have not caught up with that yet." Then the author concludes: "The answer to the question—right or wrong?—is the most important thing in the life of a nation or an individual. These pages will lead to debate, and you will learn something about your own principles of conduct. The best result this book can achieve will be to start each reader into doing some thinking for himself." Quotations are used by permission of the publishers, Dodd, Mead and Company. PETITION Gertrude Perry Stanton There is so much that I would ask of Thee, My Father, when the evening shadows fall— So many dear. Ones to remember, all Of whom I plead for long and tenderly. So much forgiveness for my unbelief, So many duties I have failed to see; The oft-neglected opportunity, Sufferers for whom I pray for swift relief. I should lose faith, and by despair be driven As blindly down my path I seem to grope, Were it not for that blessed word of hope Within Thy word—'"Ask, and it shall be given!" _So in Thy strength I journey day by day, And when night comes, I still may dare to pray, The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan No. 5 A Little Shelf of Books Dora Marler Williams: "There is no greater magic in the world than the printed book. Few of us realize how much the course and pattern of our lives are shaped by books." Gove Hambidge. IN primitive times the home served as a shelter from stress and storms and as a safeguard against wild animals and intruders generally. Most of a person's time and energy were required to provide himself and his dependents with the bare necessities of life, and little time was left for the pursuit of occupations that would lead to culture and progress. With the passing of the years, however, man's ingenious effort has brought to the world comforts and blessings far beyond the imagination of those living in that earlier period. Among the many discoveries and inventions that have revolutionized the world, one of the most important and far-reaching is the invention of Time To Live, by Gove Hambidge. Used by permission of the publishers, McGraw Hill Book Co., New York. Printing. Today books are considered one of the essentials of progressive living. Whether the home be a palatial mansion or an unpretentious little cottage, few possessions can come into it that will bring as much joy as a little shelf of books. Such a shelf of books is an "'open sesame" to life. It is not something that can be purchased outright in the market place, as one might buy a piece of furniture. Like truth and beauty and friendship, it doesn't come to its possessor all at once. It grows with the years. From year to year, as our horizon enlarges, we come to a fuller realization of truth, and we gather into our magic shelf the precious expressions of our philosophy of life. We seldom find these treasured volumes in uniform size and binding, all set in 696 a straight row. No, they often display a somewhat motley appearance. Leaning against a substantial book of profound wisdom may be found the tenderest, whimsical love story. And nestled close beside it, one may see chubby little books of philosophy or tales of laughter; while near at hand is a slender volume of silver, singing poetry. Out of the wisdom of the years they come—souvenirs of anniversaties, tokens of remembrance, priceless hallowed volumes; just a little world of truth and beauty, of love and laughter, of wisdom and_ romance, that many times may hold one to a realization of his highest hopes. A home without a shelf of books is like a house without windows, a life without hope. It is like a traveler in a strange land groping his way along darkened alleys with no guide posts or lights to direct his stumbling feet: BOOks help to pattern our lives. They are essential to intellectual growth and spiritual development. They carry with them the wisdom of the ages; they beautify the soul. They bring courage, comfort, and peace in hours of turmoil and trial. For sheer enjoyment and wholesome delight, there is no expenditure of time that pays such rich dividends as that spent with books. Each person interprets life differently. The stories, the poems, the essays that clarify and emphasize our own philosophy hold us in their magic power. These are the books that call to us from the ends of the earth. These are the treasures that sooner or later find us, and bring to us the joy and uplift, the peace and satisfaction RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER, 1940 for which we are forever searching. When we gather these treasures together within the confines of a small space, we are creating for ourselves a cozy corner of comfort, a little haven of rest, a quiet altar of prayer. In other rooms or in other parts of the same room, may be books of general interest, but let this one little shelf be an expression of your personality, your highest ideals, the inmost desires of your soul. Into this shelf gather all of your choicest books, that their spiritual beauty may shine out like a beacon to guide and direct you through all of the devious ways of life. You can commune with. Such books as you would with a true friend, for do they not represent your highest hopes and aspirations? Do they not express the eternal truths that call to you out of the dawn, out of the darkness, out of the years? In times of stress you can find refuge here. These stores of wisdom will help you to reach sane conclusions in the consideration of the problems that confront you. When torn with indecision you may go to your little shelf of books as you would go to your little room of prayer. Will you not find here the advice of wise men and good? If you have chosen prudently, you will find here books that will sing to you when the day is dull, books that will cheer you when the heart is lonely, books that will bring back hope after the color and romance have faded out of your day, books that will write new sentences into life after sorrow has washed the slate clean, books that will lift you on the wings of the morning and start THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL the heart singing anew. One should bring to this small shelf only books of distinction, books that are friendly, companionable, and inspirational. Every member in the home should have his little shelf of books. Even the three-year-old loves his bright, colored picture books and happy jingles. Youth takes a just pride in the possession of a few of his favorite adventure stories or special editions that appeal to his particular interest; while Grandmother's memory clings to old, worn volumes as to true and trusty friends. Let us aim to have the right shelf for each member of the household, and the right books for every shelf; then, see to it that the week's program is so arranged that each person may find a suitable time and opportunity in which to read the books he loves the most. 697 No greater inheritance has come to humanity through the ages than the gift of books. No person should ever contemplate being without them. There is a book for every need, for every mood, for every mind. There is no substitute for them. Even the thinnest purse should reserve a few coins for the purchase of good books, for they are as necessary to life as food and clothing and shelter. Indeed, we may say they are indispensable to a full and happy life. The years are forever revealing new truths. If we are to choose wisely the volumes that are to fill the precious space of our small - shelves, let us so live that we may always be in tune with the Divine, in harmony with that spirit that will guide us unto all truth. — REALIZATION Eunice J. Miles I have a tiny apron With a pocket and a bow. My mother made it for me From a bit of calico. She fashioned it so faithfully, The while her smile was cheery. How could I know her heart was sad, Or that her feet were weary? I took the gift so carelessly, As if it were my due. That it would prove a parting one, Alas, I never knew. For now my mother's hands are still, They never more will sew An apron bright with ribbon From a bit of calico. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon OCTOBER—The forest blushed when autumn kissed her. IT was twenty years last August since the 19th Amendment became a law granting universal suffrage. In these two decades women have forged ahead in commerce, industry, education, and the arts, and have obtained important legislation of a social and cultural nature. However, in public office, with few exceptions, they have attained only minor positions—one woman cabinet member, two ministers to foreign lands, two state governors, one commissioner of customs, twenty-eight congresswomen, and one circuit court judge; that is the record. DAISY HARRIMAN, United States minister to Norway, came home last month. Crown Princess Martha of Norway, her three children, and eight hundred other refugees from war-stricken Europe were on the same ship. From Norway also came Pearl Buck, the novelist, via Siberia and the Orient; while from Southern Europe came Philanthy Hatzimarkou, telling of starving men and women along the roadsides. EVA GABOR, Budapest actress, Mme. J. J. Bach, Paris modiste, and Countess Barbara Reventlow have applied for American citizenship. PRINCESS JULIANA, of - the Netherlands, is the guest of Canada's "First Lady," Lady Athlone, Queen Victoria's granddaughter, Princess Alice, ROSE L. McMULLEN of Washington, D. C., is known from coast to coast as the "woman with the golden blood." Through her generous transfusions she has saved the lives of more than two-score patients, even sending blood to strangers several miles away. THE Duchess of Windsor exercises no little authority when she cables for the swankiest hairdresser in Manhatten to come to Nassau to give her a hairdo for a reception. ELOUISE CALL of Brigham City, has been awarded the Relief Society Fellowship for graduate study in social work at the University of Utah. MARY RYAN aged 15, of Kentucky, won the championship of the National A. A. U. Swimming tournament, and Marjorie Gestring of California, the springboard diving championship, at Portland, this summer. ALBERTA L. JACOBS, president of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, Jane K. Kimball, and Lula B. Call, are notable Utah women who died this last summer. EDITH CHERRINGTON, Utah poet, is the prize winner in the Kaleidograph poetry contest, with her collection of fifty poems called "Phantom Caravan." MAURINE WHIPPLE of Utah, has another pioneer novel in print, Giant Joshua. The Unquiet Field, by Beatrice K. Seymour, is a saga of three generations of Lwerpool shipowners, THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - Donna D. Sorensen - - Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow da T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd Rae B. Barker THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor - Second Counselor - - Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff i Leona B. Fetzer hiteiienins (Ginsti Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXVII OCTOBER, 1940 No. 10 EDITORIAL She Motivating Spirit of Relief Society THE month of October finds more than 21,000 executive and special Relief Society officers in readiness for the 1940-41 season's work. Many of these are approaching duties and responsibilities entirely new to them, while others are experienced in the positions which they hold. All, however, have accepted their positions in response to the call of the Priesthood of the Church. They are rendering a free-will service to the Church because of an inner conviction of the truth of the Gospel and the importance of contributing to the cause of the Master. Generally speaking, each one is approaching her calling with a sincere desire and a full determination to serve to the best of her ability, hopeful that she will enjoy a full measure of success in her work. Success in any task is dependent upon many things. One must know the requirements of the work and the obligations involved. A knowledge and an understanding of the governing rules and regulations of the work are important. The knowledge and ability to meet the requirements of the task are essential, while a love for the work and the will to succeed increase one's chances of success and enhance the joy of the worker. We are living in an era when efficiency seems to be our watchward. Efficiency in service is greatly in demand. The person who knows his job and who meets the requirements of it in a competent manner, who works with precision and economy, who achieves well-defined goals with accuracy and dispatch, is sought after on every hand. We are proud of the thousands of efficient women in our organization. We appreciate the opportunities that have come to them to equip them to lead so capably. We are grateful for their willingness to contribute their strength to the strength of Relief Society. But in our desire to be efficient in the conduct of our work, we must not lose sight of the great truth given us by the Apostle Paul in 2 Cor. 2:6: "... For the letter killeth but the spirit giveth light." In Relief Society work there is a great underlying spirit, as deep and as broad as the work itself, which motivates all of our activities. It has characterized the work of the Society 700 for nearly one hundred years. It has been exemplified in the lives of thousands of women who have affiliated with the organization. It has been the unifying, compelling force that has carried us forward and enabled us to succeed. It was this spirit which prompted eighteen women to request the Prophet Joseph Smith to organize them into a society for human betterment. It was the same spirit which kept the organization alive in the hearts of women when they were unable to attend regular meetings because of the difficulties incident to crossing the plains and establishing the Saints in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains. It is this same spirit which has caused the organization to grow and flourish until today its influence is felt far and wide. It is the same spirit which so recently caused a Relief Society president living in a war-torn country to travel a distance of 60 miles on a bicycle to succor her sisters whose city had been ravaged and whose homes had been destroyed by war. This Relief Society president did not carry to her stricken sisters baskets of food and new clothing. She was unable to restore the shelters which had been so ruthlessly demolished. She did not carry a purse full of money to purchase material comforts for them. I do not believe she was conscious of her own efficiency in the conduct of her work nor was she concerned about individual or organization credit. Her one concern was the spiritual welfare of her people. She wanted them to know that they were not alone in their time of trouble. She wanted to encourage and bless those whom she loved. She carried to her sisters something of greater worth than food, clothing, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 shelter or money; she carried to them the greatest restorative in the world ?the true spirit of the Gospel. Her genuine love for her fellow men and the activities which it prompted were motivated by the spirit which underlies and motivates all of our worthy activities. To the degree that the spirit of the Gospel characterizes our work we will be successful, and we will fail to the degree that it wanes or is found lacking. The Apostle Paul gives us the key. He says, "No man liveth unto himself," and "... Be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous, not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing, but contrariwise blessings; knowing that ye are thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing." It is the spirit of the Gospel which enables us to render our most effective service. Service thus rendered is a selfless service entirely devoid of any thought of recompense. Personal sacrifice and effort are entirely discounted. All consideration of personal gain is effaced. Recognition and praise for what we are doing are disdained. Everything becomes subservient to the genuine desire to help one another and promote the work of the Lord. The most important thing in Relief Society is to keep this spirit alive. It should dominate all of our activities. If the work of our capable leaders is animated by the spirit of the Lord the lives of Relief Society women will indeed be enriched, the work of the organization will progress, and those who are called to serve will enjoy the greatest luxury in the world?the luxury of doing good. This is in reality true success. Notes to THE FIELD Mormon Handicraft THE Mormon Handicraft Shop is now preparing for Christmas. The whole-hearted support of the women of the Church is urged in making this an outstanding season for the Shop. This is your Shop, and your patronage as well as your skill in supplying attractive, well-made articles are essential to its success. It is suggested that those who are planning to make articles for Christmas sales bear in mind gifts which are suitable for Grandfather, Grandmother, Father, Mother and the children. Good-looking handkerchief cases and cases for stockings and lingerie are saleable, but good material and splendid workmanship are required. Breakfast cloths with four twelve-inch napkins, which can be sold for $1.00 to $1.50 per set, as well as linen cloths, forty-five to fifty-four inches square with four fourteen-inch napkins are in demand. Clever tea towels and unusual aprons continue to attract buyers. If you have something out of the ordinary send it in. The Shop would like gifts (not clothing) suitable for boys ranging in age from six to fourteen years. If articles are to move, it is important that they be well made, unusual in design, and very usable. Until further notice, do not send in crochet bed spreads or crochet table cloths. The interest in the Shop and the splendid cooperation of the local organizations are appreciated. Please continue your efforts to have all of your members who possibly can participate and enjoy the benefits of your MORMON HANDICRAFT project. Importance of a Fall Clean-up in Beautification Program THE attention of Relief Society workers is called to the following announcement made by the Church Beautification Committee: "Stake and ward committees should now plan for a fall clean-up of all Church property and encourage ward members to clean up their homes and surroundings. "During the summer months there has been an accumulation of trash, waste and debris in many places. Weeds and other growths should be removed and burned. All the breeding and hibernating places of insects should be destroyed before fall and winter storms come. It will be difficult to make any place beautiful until it has been cleaned up. "While the ultimate aim of the beautification program is more than a general clean-up, the clean-up plays an important part in helping to get our members interested in this work. Periodical clean-up days will assist the committee to get over its message in a way that often brings results when other methods fail. 702 "Will Protect Our Health "There is an important phase of this question that is sometimes overlooked?that is, our health. Clean, sanitary buildings will be a valuable aid to help conserve and protect health. Sickness spells suffering for ourselves and worry, trouble, and extra burdens for our families. Disease is seldom found in clean, well-kept buildings. As a protection for the health of the community, have a thorough clean-up. "This clean-up program might be taken a step farther than just gathering and destroying rubbish and waste. Let's remember old and dilapidated buildings and barns that have out-lived their usefulness, and see what can be done about having them torn down. If there is one that is owned by a worthy person who cannot afford to remove it, make it a project and have volunteer labor do it. It is surprising what can be accomplished with people who have the right attitude and a desire to assist others. "Should Inspire Pride "Another responsibility that is ours as committee members is to see that in every possible way we inspire pride and greater respect for our Church property, and that we secure greater reverence in our houses of worship. A clean, well-kept place will help to attain these aims. "To secure the best result for this fall clean-up, a careful survey should first be made to find out what there is to be done in and around your buildings and grounds. Then, the ward beautification committee, working with the ward bishopric, can plan how best to accomplish the desired results. There are some ward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 members who think there is little to be done. The reason for this is that they see the chapel so often that it takes a survey or a check-up of conditions for them to understand true conditions. "We offer a few suggestions that should be considered in the clean-up program: "Remove Fire Hazards "One of the first things to do is to remove fire hazards. In many of our buildings, scenery is used for entertainments and pageants and is not properly taken care of. If you have a stage, it should be put in order; get rid of anything that cannot be used again. Dust rags soaked in oil, sweeping compounds, etc., should have a special place in order to receive proper care. The furnace room should be thoroughly cleaned and made ready for winter use. Ashes ought to be removed?not alone from the boiler room, but any piles that are back of the Church. Clean out the stokers, remove all clinkers, oil all motors. "Store rooms should be carefully checked. Remove anything that is not useful and put in place only those things that will be of service. In many places there are old books, bulletins, and other papers of little or no value that remain on shelves or in closets for years. They ought to be removed if for no other reason than that they are a fire hazard. Attic and out-of-way storerooms should not be overlooked. "Toilet rooms should be cleaned and disinfected; where repairs are needed, see that they are made. Saniflush will remove stains, and should be used. Floors should be cleaned and waxed, windows washed, shelves NOTES TO THE FIELD and storage places cleaned and washed. "Outside of the buildings, weeds, grass and other rubbish should be removed because of the fire hazard they create and also because their removal makes grounds appear more attractive. "Outside toilets should have careful attention. Use some chloride of lime, common lime or other disinfectants; and keep them clean. "The outside coal shed or wood shed is often neglected. Before winter comes give it a careful checking. "Value of Appearance "We do not pretend that these suggestions cover all the details of a thorough clean-up. We hope, however, we have suggested enough to show you some of the many things that should be done. The value of appearance is often underestimated. Our chapels and their 703 surroundings, and our homes reflect the kind of people who use or live in them. Cleanliness is next to Godliness. How important it is for us not only to have a periodical clean-up, but to keep our chapels and homes clean and beautiful all the time. "A tourist, after traveling several thousand miles across several states, made this interesting remark: 'Of all the memories I cherish, and of all the things I saw and enjoyed, none is more outstanding than the homes and farms which lined the highways. I knew not the names of those whose homes I saw; yet I felt that I knew something of the character of the people by the appearance of their homes and surroundings.' "Hold a Public Meeting "A public meeting should be held at which time a program emphasizing the value of a clean-up of chapels and homes should be given. It will help to put over the clean-up and beautification program. "The week of October 13th has been suggested for the fall clean-up. Each ward will have to select their own time. The important thing is to have a thorough clean-up before winter storms come." NOTICE TO MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES THE Magazine drive ends October 15, 1940. Ward Magazine representatives are requested to have their reports reach their respective stake Magazine representatives not later than October 20. Stake Magazine representatives are requested to submit compiled subscription reports in time to reach the Magazine office by October 25. Reports from stakes which are received later than November 1 cannot be included in the honor roll which is published in the Relief Society Magazine for December. "THE Relief Society Centennial will be not only an appraisal of the past but a dedication to the future." ?President Amy Brown Lyman. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Sing Now More Than Ever Beatrice F. Stevens "SERVE the Lord with gladness, Come before His presence with singing." Thus the psalmist gave joyful expression and fervent exhortation in ancient times, and thus today we give expression to worship and to our desire to serve the Lord. We are indeed grateful for the wondrous gift of music and for the important place it holds in worshiping assemblies throughout our Church; especially do we value this activity in our Relief Society organization. Today, perhaps more than ever, we need the spiritual uplift of song. We are desirous that those who have the responsibility of carrying forward our music program be given every possible encouragement. Our musical interests have broadened, and with added activity, the amount of time and effort required has greatly increased. Requests have been made that definite work for the music department be provided each month. Conditions and needs of stakes are so varied that it would not be wise for the General Board to ask that all conform to a uniform monthly program. We can only hope to make suggestions that may be helpful throughout the entire Church in attaining general objectives. The exact method of reaching these objectives must of necessity be worked out by individual stake choristers and organists. Some help may be gleaned from the following suggestions that have come to us from our choristers. Executive officers may cooperate in the following ways: 1. Checking music program in officers' meeting. 2. Encouraging proper and profitable use of song practice period. 3. Providing Relief Society Song Books and, where there are choruses, other necessary music. 4. Encouraging explanation or story of music numbers. 5. Selecting organists who can give support and be accurate in performance. 6. Taking initiative in suggesting occasions for the chorus to sing. 7. Allowing full time for presentation of music prepared. 8. Taking a definite interest in work of chorus and encouraging members to attend rehearsals. 9. Keeping organist interested in preparing and playing appropriate preliminary music. 10. Using influence to have musical instruments given proper care. One chorister believes that women sing better when hats and coats are removed. The learning of new hymns by general Church membership is much needed, and we are desirous of supporting the General Church Music Committee in their splendid efforts in this direction. The October issue of the Improvement Era contains an article written by Alexander Schreiner for organists on the proper rendition of the three hymns to be featured in the Church hymn-singing project during the next three months. The hymns to be sung are: "The Gospel Standard High Is Raised" "Before Jehovah's Glorious Throne" "From Greenland's Icy Mountains" We encourage our choristers and organists to aid and stimulate this hymn-singing project. Excerpts from "Life of John Taylor" By B. H. Roberts (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp) "If ever there was an exemplary, honest and virtuous man, an embodiment of all that is noble, in the human form, Hyrum Smith was its representative." (page 142) "Many a time have I listened to the voice of our beloved Prophet, while in council, dwell on this subject [the removal of the Saints to the Rocky Mountains] with delight; his eyes sparkling with animation, and his soul fired with the inspiration of the Spirit of the living God." (page 179) (France, 1851) "At the very time they [the French people] were voting for their president, we were voting for our president; and building up the kingdom of God; and I prophesied that our cause would stand when theirs is crushed to pieces; and the kingdom of God will roll on and spread from nation to nation, and from kingdom to kingdom." (page 233) (1879) "Inasmuch as the brethren had been careless and slow to heed the counsel of President Young in relation to storing away wheat, he (President Young) requested the sisters to do it, and some of us 'lords of creation' thought it a very little thing for our sisters to be engaged in. But we find now they are of some use, and that the 'ladies of creation' can do something as well as we 'lords'." (page 336) "If you find people owing you who are distressed, if you will go to work and try to relieve them as much as you can, under the circumstances, God will relieve you when you get into difficulties. I will tell you that in the name of the Lord." (page 336) (1882) "As a people or community, we can bide our time, but I will say to you Latter-day Saints, that there is nothing of which you have been despoiled by oppressive acts or mobocratic rule, but that you will again possess, or your children after you.... Your possessions, of which you have been fraudulently despoiled in Missouri and Illinois, you will again possess, and that without force, or fraud, or violence. The Lord has a way of His own in regulating such matters." (page 362) "This is not only my saying, but it is the saying of those ancient prophets which they themselves profess to believe; for God will speedily have a controversy with the nations of the earth, and as I stated before. The destroyer of the Gentiles is on his way to overthrow governments, to destroy dynasties, to lay waste thrones, kingdoms and empires, to spread abroad anarchy and desolation, and to cause war, famine and bloodshed to overspread the earth," (page 364) LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION Lesson 4 The Power of Loyalty?John Taylor and His Loyalty to Joseph Smith (Tuesday, January 7, 1941) "The Seer, the Seer! Joseph the Seer! Or, how I love his memory dear! The just and wise, the pure and free, A father he was and is to me." (From ''The Seer" by John Taylor) BACKGROUND OF JOHN TAYLOR'S LIFE. On November 1, 1808, a child was born in Milnethorpe, Westmoreland, England, whose life was destined to be one of great activity until it came to a close at Kaysville, Utah, on July 25, 1887. Born into a Church of England family, he sought diligently for a more vital religion. When about fifteen years of age, he joined the Methodist Church, and two years later he became a local preacher. Emigrating to the New World in 1828, he settled at Toronto, Canada, and became a Methodist local preacher. He was, however, not satisfied with the teachings of his church, for he writes of this period: "My object was to teach what I then considered the leading doctrines of the Christian religion, rather than the dogmas peculiar to Methodism." As a result of this dissatisfaction, he formed, with a number of kindred spirits, a study group, the purpose of which was to search the Scriptures to discover the biblical teachings concerning the fundamentals of Christianity. It was at a meeting of this group that Parley P. Pratt preached the Restoration. Ultimately, all members of the group except one joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. JOHN TAYLOR AND THE PROPHET. Journeying to Kirtland, Ohio, he met the Prophet Joseph Smith and at once became his ardent admirer and loyal supporter. These were troublesome times in the new Church. Dissension, jealousy and apostasy were rife in Kirtland. The Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were forced to flee from the city because of threats against their lives. A meeting of the disgruntled Church members convened in the temple, at which Joseph Smith was attacked as a fallen prophet. Brother Taylor went to this meeting and said: "Whence do we get our intelligence, and knowledge of the laws, ordinances, and doctrines of the kingdom of God. Who understood even the LESSON DEPARTMENT first principles of the doctrines of Christ? Who in the Christian world taught them? If we, with our learning and intelligence, could not find out the first principles... How can we find out the mysteries of the kingdom? It was Joseph Smith, under the Almighty, who developed the first principles, and to him we must look for further instructions." This fearless defense of his beloved Prophet was characteristic of the esteem in which he held him. LOYALTY AT THE MARTYRDOM. When the Governor of Illinois commenced to press the mobocratic charges against Joseph Smith and other Church leaders, in 1844, John Taylor and Dr. Bernhisel went to Carthage, June 21, to see Governor Ford in defense of the Prophet. Later, June 25, when Joseph and Hyrum went to Carthage and voluntarily placed themselves in custody of the Governor, John Taylor and Willard Richards were requested by the Prophet to accompany them?which they did. The afternoon of the tragic day was a warm, sultry one. The Prophet, Hyrum, Willard Richards and John Taylor were in a room on the second floor of Carthage jail. The Prophet had a foreboding of his doom and feared for the safety of the two apostles who voluntarily had entered the jail and remained with him. He urged them to go, that they might be spared the fate that awaited him. This they both refused to do, stating that they had come because they desired to do so, and that they would remain and would willingly be killed in his stead if it would save him from death. Elder Taylor, whose love for the Prophet made him desire to see that 707 his life was preserved no matter what the method of preservation might be, then proposed that he should leave immediately for Nauvoo, get sufficient of the brethren, and return to forcibly release the imprisoned Church leaders. Joseph refused to assent to this plan. The Prophet then requested Brother Taylor to sing the hymn "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief." The pleasing voice of Brother Taylor and the expression of pure Christian service embodied in the verses of the song cheered the soul of the Prophet as he saw life's close drawing near. The story of the Martyrdom is too well known to repeat here. Suffice it to say that when the attack began it was John Taylor who seized a heavy walking stick and with it parried the guns of the murderous attackers as they were thrust into the room and fired. Fighting valiantly in this fashion, in an attempt to shield the Prophet from harm, four musket balls entered his body, some of which remained imbedded in his body throughout the forty-three years he was yet to live. LABORS IN THE QUORUM OF THE TWELVE. Indefatigable as a preacher of the Restored Gospel, John Taylor spent much of his life in missionary service. During the Nauvoo period, he founded and edited the Nauvoo Neighbor and edited the Times and Seasons. He opened the missionary work in Ireland, France, and Germany, publishing periodicals and supervising the translation of the Book of Mormon into the French and German languages. He also founded, published, and edited a newspaper, The Mormon, in New York, from 1855 to 1857. During the Utah period, he traveled 708 extensively throughout the settlements, organizing the wards and stakes of the Church. Many times he was a member of the territorial legislature, and in 1877, as a reward for his interest in and encouragement of education, he was elected Territorial Superintendent of Schools. LITERARY ACTIVITIES. He wrote one of the most penetrating expositions of the mission of Jesus Christ that the latter-day Church has produced. It is entitled Mediation and Atonement. While on his French-German mission, he wrote his theological masterpiece, The Government of God. At the time of his death, he left an unfinished Book of Mormon drama. Poetically, he was also gifted. The hymns, "The Seer," "Go Ye Messengers of Glory," and "The Glorious Plan" were from his pen. AS PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH. At the death of Brigham Young, in 1877, John Taylor was president of the Quorum of the Twelve. From 1877 to 1880, he directed the Apostolic Presidency; and from 1880 to 1887, he served as President of the Church. This was a trying decade, filled with a severe anti-polygamy crusade and vexatious political troubles. But these hindrances could not dim the vision of the responsibility which rested upon his shoulders, which the Prophet Joseph had impressed upon his mind. In addition to conducting the local affairs of the Church, he directed the opening of the Mexican and Maori (New Zealand) missions, inaugurated the Arizona, Colorado and Nevada settlements of the Saints, determined upon the Mexican colonization venture, and sent missionaries to the Indians of Idaho, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 Wyoming, New Mexico and Arizona. Noteworthy, also, is the fact that on October 13, 1882, he received a revelation calling Heber J. Grant to the Quorum of the Twelve?the first person born in Utah to be called to the Apostleship. It was during President Taylor's administrative period that the Golden Jubilee of the Church was celebrated. In addition to the General Church contributions for the economic welfare of the Saints?cancellation of debts due the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company, overdue tithes, distribution of cattle and sheep to the poor and needy?the Relief Society was called upon to make a noteworthy contribution in the Jubilee year. The drought of 1879 had caused a scarcity of seed-wheat in the valleys of the mountains. President Taylor suggested that the Relief Society sisters release their 34,761 bushels of stored wheat as a loan to the farmers, to be repaid without interest at the ensuing harvest. This wheat had been accumulating over a period of years, to be used in a time of scarcity. It was now needed, and the sisters voted to place it at the disposal of the farmers. INFLUENCE OF JOSEPH SMITH UPON JOHN TAYLOR. John Taylor was by nature a courageous man, talented, a leader and a lover of liberty. He was broadminded, a man of faith, generous and a true gentleman. When he joined the Mormon movement, he became convinced that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. So firm was this conversion that he never argued about it?it had become a matter of absolute knowledge to him. He then consecrated his life to service LESSON DEPARTMENT in the Church and labored for its welfare the remainder of his days. All that he did throughout his life was actuated by the teachings and ideals of the Prophet. It was the Prophet's teachings that had given direction and purpose to the characteristics and capacities inherent in him, and he never ceased to acknowledge his debt of gratitude to Joseph Smith. His hymn, "The Seer", indicates this devotion and attachment. There was heartfelt sincerity when he wrote, "A father he was and is to me." Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What is there about the words of "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" that made such a powerful appeal to the Prophet during the trying hours before his death? 2. What do the titles of President Taylor's most important writings?The Government of God and Mediation and Atonement?reveal concerning his thoughts and feelings? 3. President Taylor once wrote: "I would not be a slave to God! I'd be His servant, friend, His son. I'd go at His behest, but I would not be His slave." What does this statement reveal concerning his character? Religious Visiting Teacher 709 Topics for Study and Special Activities 1. Read all four verses of "The Seer." (L. D. S. Hymn Book, p. 337) 2. Read the account of John Taylor's search for the true Gospel in England and Canada, as related in Roberts' Life of John Taylor. 3. Have someone sing "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief" as a special musical number during the class period. 4. Discuss President Taylor's activity in the development of the beet sugar industry in early pioneer times. (Relief Society Magazine, July, 1939) References W. E. Berrett, The Restored Church, pp. 145-149 and 265-271. B. H. Roberts, Life of John Taylor. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 519-538 and 580-594; Vol. VI, pp. 187-190. J. H. Evans, Joseph Smith, an American Prophet, pp. 6, 90, 98-99, and 205-207. Preston Nibley, "John Taylor?His Life and Teachings," Deseret News, Church Section, Jan. 15, February 5 and March 5, 1938. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 380-384 and 575-602. John Taylor, The Government of God. John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement. MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 4 The Democracy of the Priesthood (Tuesday, January 7, 1941) IN a sermon delivered at General Conference in 1904, President Anthon H. Lund said: "Those who contemplate the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be struck with the number who hold the Priesthood. The Priesthood is conferred upon all male members who are worthy to receive it. This is a great blessing 710 which the members of this Church enjoy, and it makes them a peculiar people, a chosen generation, holding the royal Priesthood. There is no priestly caste in our Church, contrary to the opinion of many; such a thing does not exist with us, unless you will call the whole Church a priestly caste, because all participate in the blessings pertaining to the Priesthood." The most humble man has the same power and authority as the most prominent or wealthy one who holds the same office of Priesthood. His worldly possessions or position RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 do not enter into his standing in the Priesthood, but only his faithfulness in living according to the teachings of the Gospel. All men who hold the Priesthood may act in an official capacity when called upon to do so. The Priesthood brings to the individual man a sense of his true value in the sight of God. Home Discussion Helps Priesthood is a blessing that money cannot buy nor poverty take away from those who possess it. The gift of Priesthood is denied to no worthy man in the Church. Work-and-Business NUTRITION: Lesson 4 Good Posture (Tuesday, January 14, 1941) WHAT IS GOOD POSTURE? Good posture is the use of all parts of the body with proper balance. The person with good posture is as tall as possible without stiffness or strain, whether standing, walking, sitting or lying down. In good standing posture, the hip joints are in a straight line with the ears, shoulders, knees, and ankles. The feet are parallel. The shoulders are even and level. The chest is held high. The abdomen is flat and drawn in. Good walking posture gives one the same appearance as good standing posture, except that the body swings along in motion. Good sitting posture is maintained with the lower back touching the back of the chair. The ears, shoulders, and hips are in a straight line whether the shoulders are back against the chair or bending forward. Forward bending is done from the hip line, not from the waist line. Good lying-down or sleeping posture means keeping the body in the same straight line as when standing. Good sleeping posture is impossible on a bed which sags. WHY HAVE GOOD POSTURE? Good posture gives one a better appearance. It gives a feeling of self-confidence, ease and poise. It makes one look and feel important, which is essential to good mental health. It improves physical health by providing room for all of the LESSON DEPARTMENT body organs to do their work without crowding. As posture improves, circulation, digestion, and elimination also improve. Keeps the spinal cord and other nerve centers free from pressure, while poor posture often causes backache and headache due to pressure on the nerves. HOW TO HAVE GOOD POSTURE The first requisite to good posture is good nutrition. One cannot have good posture without good nutrition. Strong, straight bones are essential to good posture. A good set of bones needs a covering of firm, well-developed muscles. Good muscle tone depends on good nutrition. Sleep and rest make better posture possible. One cannot "feel tall" and feel tired. Fatigue is one cause of poor posture. Sleep is nature's restorer. The body does its growth and repair work during sleep. The body may starve for rest and sleep just as it may starve for food. Healthy feet help maintain good posture. Good feet make a strong foundation for the body. Fallen arches cause poor posture. Poor-fitting shoes affect one's posture. Clothing which fits comfortably and is the right weight permits the body to move freely. Good posture needs freedom for body movement. Tight or heavy clothing prevents this freedom. Vision and hearing influence posture, especially during childhood. The child who does not hear well or one who needs glasses forms the habit of stretching the head forward in order to see or hear better. Posture exercises help one get the "feel" of good posture. They help Good posture 711 strengthen groups of muscles which are important in maintaining good body mechanics. Posture exercises cannot help one's posture unless the body is well nourished and well rested. The following exercises are helpful for persons of any age: 1. BACK ON THE WALL. Stand with heels four inches from the wall, with head, shoulders and hips touching the wall. Flatten the back against the wall by pulling in on the abdominal muscles and rolling down the lower back; repeat ten times. Hold the shoulders and chest still. Let the motion come at and below the waistline. Do not hold your breath. This is one of the most important posture exercises. It gives a conscious control of the two groups of muscles which are most fundamental in maintaining good posture?the abdominal and the buttocks or gluteal muscle groups. 2. CATCH PENNY. Same position as No. 1. Hold a penny between the small of the back and the wall at the waist line. Breathe easily while the abdominal muscles are drawn in. 3. RIB RAISING. Same position as No. 1, with hands back of neck, fingers straight and finger tips touching. Keep the elbows back against the wall. Pull in the abdomen till the back is flattened against the wall. This is more difficult to do than exercise No. 1. 4. GROW TALL. Stand against the wall, as in No. 1. Clasp hands on head. Take a deep breath and grow tall, pushing up against the hands with the top of the head. 712 Hold the abdominal muscles in. Sway forward till you are standing over the center of the feet. While in this position walk across the room and back. 5. CORNER EXERCISES. Stand in good posture facing a corner of the room with the toes about 18 inches from the corner. Place the palms of the hands, with the thumbs pointing down, against the wall at shoulder height. Keep elbows shoulder high. Rise on toes and sway forward from the ankles, keeping the abdomen flat, back straight, head up and chin in. Return to starting position and repeat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 This exercise is good for round shoulders, as it gently stretches the tightened chest muscles. References Good Posture in the Little Child, Publication No. 219, 5 cents. Posture Standards for Girls, 25 cents. Posture Standards for Boys, 25 cents. Children's Bureau, U. S. Dept of Labor, Washington, D. C. (A set of six charts, 38x24 inches, showing posture standards for stocky type, intermediate type, and thin type boys and girls.) Posture from the Ground Up, Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York. How Do You Walk? State Tuberculosis Association. (A small leaflet showing good walking posture. Any state Tuberculosis Assn. can supply these.) Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 4 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, January 21, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. The author and the general nature of the book 2. The historical background 3. The plot 4. Literary values 5. Study helps THE AUTHOR AND GENERAL NATURE OF THE BOOK Miss Elizabeth Page, author of The Tree of Liberty, is a fifty-one year old ex-teacher and social worker now living with her mother in California. She was born in Vermont. Her father, Alfred Rider Page, was a lawyer for many years in his home state; then, after moving to New York, he was made a judge of the New York Supreme Court, an office he was holding at the time of his death in 1931. From her mother's family, Elizabeth received her gift of writing. Mrs. Page is the niece of E. P. Roe, a very popular moral novelist of the seventies and eighties. When Elizabeth was eleven years old, her grandmother gave her a package of letters that had been written by a relative who crossed the plains in 1849. At that early date, the girl planned to write a book based upon the material of those letters. This ambition was realized thirty years later in the chronicle, Wagon West, published in 1930. LESSON DEPARTMENT Elizabeth was educated at Vassar College and Columbia University, taking her bachelor's degree from the former in 1912 and her master's degree from the latter in 1914, with a major in history. She taught history in a Massachusetts high school for a year, during which time she had dreams of becoming a college history teacher. But her patriotism led her to give up teaching and enter the Red Cross service during the World War. She served first in the United States, then in Europe until the end of the war. During that time, she became so much interested in relief work and social service that she continued in it when she returned home, becoming affiliated with Sir Wilfred Grenfell's Mission in Newfoundland. She remained with the mission until 1925, when she established a market in the United States for the handicraft of the fishermen's wives, with whom she had been working in Newfoundland; thus she strengthened the support of the mission. In 1927, she took a position in Wyoming as a doctor's assistant. It was from a patient at that time that she received the material which she wove into her book, From Wyoming to Yukon, published in 1932. Both of these earlier books are almost pure chronicles of real events. In The Tree of Liberty she made her first venture into fiction. But her interest in history continues in this novel. It is said that she spent five years in deliberate historical research preparing to write this book, and its historical significance is fully as great as its significance in the field of fiction. The book presents in its 1,000 pages a vivid panorama of that pe- 713 riod of our national life when the processes and traditions which made our country what it is today were in the making. One of its chief values to us is that it helps us to understand this democracy which we prize so much and to understand our own prejudices and ideals. One critic says: "The Tree of Liberty would be a rewarding novel if one read it only as a story of adventure and love. It is the more exciting and convincing in its depiction of men and women whose names are bywords, chief among them the lovable figure of Thomas Jefferson. Both the scope of the book and Miss Page's thoughtful and penetrating use of her material give it the gift of a perspective; whereby, through the past and through the lives of others, one gains illumination on much that is near at hand." And certain it is that today we need all the "illumination" it is possible to obtain. If we gain from our study only this?a better understanding of our present, together with what that understanding should give us as a directive force for the future, the study will have served a significant purpose. THE HISTORICAL BACKGROUND The book deals with perhaps the most significant half century in American history, when the colonies moved from the unrest of our early beginnings, through revolution, into nationhood. To see this slow but thrilling transformation, or growth, with many varied characters playing dramatically upon one another's weaknesses and strengths, is the privilege Miss Page holds out to us in this "double feature" novel. Her analogy of our national growth to a tree, growing from a seed planted in fertile soil, sending out 714 divergent roots, nurtured under hothouse conditions, growing for a time into an untrimmed tangle, but finally developing through careful pruning into a strong symmetrical tree, offering a sheltering protection to the ideals of democracy, adds interest to the stylistic charm of the book and helps the reader to grasp more easily the unity of her purpose. Her narrative begins with events in the year before Braddock's defeat in the French and Indian Wars and ends with developments in the second administration of Jefferson. She includes almost every political ideal and opinion that clashed and struggled during those fateful years. Her treatment of this material in the detached manner of the dramatist, graphically presenting this half century of history in the lives of a single family as they help to mold that history through three generations, sets her apart as an artist. Though Matthew Howard and Jane Peyton, his wife, and their children and grandchildren are the central figures in the novel, their lives are intimately interwoven with the lives of Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton and other great historic figures, and their actions are a part of significant national events. The seed of liberty, of course, is the spirit of the early settlers, their vision and courage. During the 150 years from the settlement of the first colony in Virginia to the opening of the story in 1754, the soil for the seed had been growing in fertility through the addition of colony after colony of self-governed English communities. Inevitably England, the mother country of these colonists, was to clash with France who was increasing her explorations and establish- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 ing more and more forts in the New World. It was the growing determination of the French to prevent the English from extending westward. The result of this conflict was the French and Indian Wars, extending over a period of 80 years. The termination of this conflict was the turning point in American history. It determined the nationality of the continent, established the representative form of government, removed from the English colonies the former dangers from the frontier, brought them closer together, and prepared them for their later resistance against their mother country. This part of the history is presented indirectly in the novel, in the light of subsequent events. The incidents leading up to the Revolutionary War, however, are vividly portrayed. We see the various measures aggravating the growing ill-feeling, the actions of Parliament in connection with taxes and trade which ultimately resulted in the Declaration of Independence and the war. We are shown, too, that difficult period following the war, when it seemed that all that had been gained would be lost, as the colonists, with such conflicting views on what should be done, clashed and struggled among themselves. It was at this critical time that Washington and other leaders, divinely inspired, as we believe, saved the country through the creation of the Constitution and their persistent struggle for its adoption. But all problems were not solved with the adoption of that great document. The two political parties, as they were slowly evolved under the leadership of Hamilton and Jefferson, incited many stirring events. LESSON DEPARTMENT  In the book, we live through the turbulent days of Washington's administrations, with the establishing of. Many of our present-day traditions. In some of his speeches, Washington might be speaking to us now, urging those ideals, principles, and practices which alone can save a democracy. Finally, we are carried with the sweep of those stirring days to the events occurring during Jefferson's administrations. Among these were the development of the Middle West and the Lewis and Clark Expedition, which opened an amazing vista of possibilities to the new nation. THE PLOT Upon the warp of this historical background is woven the story of the Howard family, through which, the author explains, she proposes "to make vivid the processes at work in the formation of American ideals." In the formally constructed novel or drama there must be a conflict. In this story, the conflict is between individuals and between different groups with divergent views as to what liberty is, what government should be, and the means that should be employed to bring the ideals of liberty and democratic government into realization. The conflicting views in the Howard family represent the larger conflicts of an evolving democracy. Matthew Howard is introduced to us in the first line of the book, as he chops wood outside his father's frontier cabin in the backwoods of Virginia. His Uncle Reuben returns from a long sojourn, where he has witnessed the Ohio Company extending the boundary line of the New World and subduing the Indians. His thrilling account sets young "Matt" to dreaming. ?Matthew's days were filled with secret adventure, and at night he slept to dream of Ohio's great scope of country, that right-down promised land." From The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939 and reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers. M5 Matthew is sent away to school with a promise from his father that later, "We're going to Ohio, son. Hit's new country and every man has a chance. I've set my. Heart for you to be a leader, like Colonel Jefferson is in Albemarle. For that ye need schoolin'... For to take the part in Ohio that your pappy can't take." But though Matthew acquitted himself creditably in his new life at school, his father was to know little about it, for the latter (under Colonel Washington) had gone to fight in the French and Indian troubles. Later, Matt goes to take his father and his uncle supplies and has his first glimpse of Colonel Washington, which results in the beginning of a hero worship that lasts all his years. At that time, also, he receives a commission to take the mother and sisters to the new and better land out in Ohio in case the father does not return. His father says: "It would be a mortal heavy task for some lads, Matt, the care of a woman-person and two little lasses on a far journey, but I have it in my heart you're to be a man and a leader." "?Twould be a sin were I not a man," he said quietly, "and I your son." Those were the last words between the father and son. James Howard was killed before the expedition against the French ended. Changes now come thick and fast to Matthew, chief of which is his marriage to the aristocratic Jane Peyton. This circumstance defers his dream of going west to Ohio; but it persists in the lives of his grandchildren and materializes 'with them. Jane Peyton stands for a set of ideals and | standards diametrically opposed to those of Matt, the son of a frontiersman. To him, individualism, personal equality, independence are the foundation stones upon which happiness must rest. Jane, on the other hand, worships wealth, refinement and conformity to set standards and old English traditions, It was inevitable that their life together should be one of endless clashes, and that their children should inherit their strong differences. They have two sons, Peyton and James, and a daughter, Mary. Peyton and Mary favor their father's views; James champions his mother's. James becomes closely associated with 716 Hamilton, and Peyton with Jefferson. Through the conflicts between the brothers in their ambitions for their country, we realize the greatly divergent ideals of the two outstanding political leaders. It is what these conflicting elements finally develop in the characters of the third generation that gives the ending and meaning to the antagonism that had almost shattered Matt's and Jane's lives. Fortunately, the children's differences are less fierce, less personal, than those of their parents; and in the third generation, because of tendencies inherited from the opposite side of the family, the grandchildren represent a balance between the two Opposing views of government. It is in the lives of his grandchildren that Matt finds something approaching the dream of liberty that he has carried throughout his life. Two dramatic highlights in the story will serve to show how the conflict persisted, and how Jane, having endured suffering in her own life, was able to help her daughter-in-law to steer her marital boat into less troubled waters. In the first instance, Matt has decided to go to war. " 'Jane,' he said, 'come into the library, lass. I have something to tell you.... I have a chance to join General Washington! A group of gentlemen from here are riding next week to offer their swords and services. You could pack and be ready in a week, couldn't you?' "Pack!.,. And suppose I say I don't care to go to Philadelphia, Matthew?' ""Oh, come Jane, you'll have to come to Philadelphia.... Albemarle is not safe.' "Jane laid down the snuffer. "Tm not angry, Matthew.... But I. Shan't go to Philadelphia. I'll take the children to Elm Hill' (the home of her brother, with whom Matthew had broken). "Elm Hill!' Matthew got slowly to his feet. 'You don't mean that, Jane?' "I certainly do. It's my home, and? "Where I am is your home,' he broke in sternly, 'since it's with me you have married. The war is in the north and will likely be fought out there. In Philadelphia I could see you, and you could know where I am and write to me. But Elm Hill? hit would mean separation, Jane.' "T know it, and that's whi ' "You want to separate?' " "Matthew, please listen to me! Because I love you so,  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 "?I asked you, madam, iffen you wished to separate from me?' " Though he finally gives his consent for her to go, and says, "We won't call it a separation," the incident pushed them farther apart and brought them both deep suffering. In later years, when Peyton's wife Adrienne feels that she must leave her husband because they, too, see things differently, Jane begs her to stay. After a serious illness, Peyton returns to Philadelphia to assist Jefferson, Adrienne begs him not to go. He answers, "Surely, Adrienne, you understand I have work to do." With a swift motion she rises and leaves the room. Peyton departs. The next day Jane finds Adrienne packing, ready to run away to England. When she understands what her daughter-in-law is intending to do "she felt as if her legs would scarcely carry her across the room to a chair." "I see?you are going away.' "Yes, madam ma mere,' " Jane sees that she is packing the twins' clothing and knows that she is planning to take them with her. "At the sight, the pounding in Jane's heart became a roaring in her ears. A curtain of blackness blotted out the sunlit room and against it she saw once more a candle smoking badly. She saw her hand teach forward, take the snuffers and delicately clear the wick. She heard her voice '... Suppose I say I don't care todo...." Where was it she would not go? It made no difference now. The refusal was the point of division where Matthew's road led off from hers.... If she could have known?if she could have seen, would her decision have been? ""Oh, no!' she cried, and the dark flood of wild emotion held back so long swept down upon her.; "Matthew! Matthew! She closed her eyes and for a moment the mad longing had its way with her. To go back!... If only she could stand again where Adrienne stood.... Adrienne! 'I think I know why you are going away, Adrienne.... But my dear, have you not thought?' " After the younger woman's outburst of explanation of all she fears from Peyton's actions, all the bitterness of their misunderstanding, Jane says, "Adrienne, you must listen to me. You must see what you are LESSON. DEPARTMENT doing. Look at me. You are very clever, and you have seen always?Matthew and me. Do you want?that for?yourself and Peyton?' "Slowly the color of excitement ebbed from Adrienne's face. ""But I said when the war is over, madam, in a little while' "So I said?oh, just as sincerely as you?-seventeen years ago.... You have not thought of what happens in such separations, but you must think of it before you decide to go. You say you act for the boys. You will not be able to keep your sons from danger if their father is there. They will run away from you. Mine did, when James was only fourteen.... After separation, Adrienne?the love that was cannot be found again?and life is not life at all.' She could say no more for the bitter weeping that choked her words. Adrienne rose from her knees and took the older woman in her arms. For a long time she was silent, absently stroking Jane's hair while she stared through the window at the garden with eyes too dry and hot for tears.. She stirred at last and laid her cheek against Jane's hand. "You have made me see, madam. I will stay, and we will fight with fate for our Howard men? together. Don't cry so, madam, it is not too late. There is still a chance to fight.' " This novel, taking a family through three generations of conflicts, is so filled with episodes it is impossible to give, in limited. Space, even a faint idea of the story as a whole. The above excerpts will indicate the kind of incidents employed and something of the pleasing style in which the novel is written. Only through actually reading the novel can one get an adequate vision of the author's purpose and a realization of how well she has accomplished it. LITERARY VALUE A masterpiece of literature has been defined as a record in suitable symbols of a significant experience of the author which has intellectual, 17 emotional, and ethical values in the experience itself, or in the subject matter, and an independent emotional quality in the style. Minor pieces of literature may offer one or more of these values. It seems to me that The Tree of Liberty, despite some obvious faults, has something of all of these values. Certainly, our intellectual horizons are widened by the vast amount of information given as an incidental part of the story. We see how people of a past age lived; we see them molding much that is the foundation of our lives today. The struggles affording the dramatic element in the book stir our emotions. We see love and ideals battling, brotherly devotion pitted against political duty, maternal anxiety and ambition struggling against conjugal loyalty. Dozens of, our deepest emotions are appealed to and deepened by reading this novel. Its ethical values are fully as apparent. Lessons of national significance as well as of individual importance may be drawn from it. Furthermore, there are passages of stylistic charm which cause us to pause for the pleasure they give. Teaching Helps 1. A genealogical chart on a board or large cardboard kept before the class during the lessons would help to keep the many characters and their relations clear. 2. Choose points from such chapters as 12, 29, 39 to illustrate the author's interesting manner of treating historical events and keeping the theme of liberty constantly in the foreground. 3. Assign definite episodes which bring out highlights in the story and have them given either at intervals during the class leader's discussion or following it. Some of the best episodes are: the decision of Jane to leave Matthew; the decision of her sons to follow him to war; the meeting of Peyton and Adrienne; Peyton's trial 718 and imprisonment, caused by Harriet's betrayal; the courtship of Tom and Margaret; the presidential election which resulted in a tie; Jane's lie to Adrien's sweetheart and its tragic results; Tom's return after the expedition. 4. Make a list of significant facts you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 have learned from the story or that have been emphasized by the novel. 5. Discuss the Latter-day Saint belief that divine inspiration guided the work that led to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 3 Am I A Housekeeper or A Homemaker? (Tuesday, January 28, 1941) NO more important question can a wife and mother or a husband and. Father ask herself or himself than, "Am I a housekeeper or a homemaker?" Yes, the husband, too, is classified as one or the other according to the manner in which he functions as a home partner. Maybe we should modify the question somewhat and say, "Am I primarily a housekeeper or a homemaker?" because it is not possible to arbitrarily draw a line and say that everything on one side of the line makes one a housekeeper and everything on the other side of the line makes one a homemaker; in fact, no distinct line can be drawn between the two. An efficient homemaker is certainly a good housekeeper; on the other hand, an expert housekeeper may be a most inefficient homemaker. The duties of the housekeeper are the care and management of the physical aspects of the home; generally, the husband concerns himself with the outside of the house while the wife is more concerned with the 'sible. Inside management. The typically good husband housekeeper has an immaculate yard, everything in place, fence in good condition, house freshly painted, flower beds, lawn and trees well "barbered"; there are few, if any, signs of family living outside of the house. And we may add that the male housekeeper usually provides a dwelling as commodious and pretentious-looking as posThe typically good female housekeeper displays the same degree of immaculateness within the house. Both housekeepers carry on their various activities absolutely according to schedule; the days of the week and the hands of the clock are the most powerful regulators of their lives. Housekeeping duties can be delegated to any person trained for the job without necessarily resulting in hazards to the family. Therefore, the mother who is a housekeeper may Carry on a career outside of the home without undue interference with the management of the house, LESSON DEPARTMENT provided she is willing to pay for trained help. Without her the house may still be a delight to the eyes of all who enter it; its dustlessness, the precision with which everything, important as well as unimportant, is in its prescribed place fairly startles everyone. However, it makes one feel decidedly uncomfortable and out of place, especially if he is not immaculately dressed. The housekeeper cannot accompany her husband on a necessary business trip into the country on Monday morning because it is washday, and the clothes must be on the line by ten o'clock. Therefore, the husband may go alone on such trips, always wishing his wife were with him; later, for the sheer sake of company, he may invite some one else to accompany him. The housekeeper cannot go with son Charles to participate in Parents' Day at school on Friday because it is the regular cleaning day, and the cleaning must be done. If it were just that Charles were disappointed that one day the results would not be so serious, but the real harm is the attitude which Charles develops as a result of feeling that he is not as important to his mother as his friends are to their mothers and that his mother does not love him in the same manner as other mothers love their sons. Now, if perchance some ten years later Charles gets into trouble, his mother will undoubtedly reproach him for not confiding in her; and most likely, it will be almost impossible to make her understand that this lack of confidence began when Charles was a tiny tot who needed her companionship and guidance. But she had been too busy housekeeping to 79 devote time to Charles, other than to teach him habits of cleanliness and orderliness of body and house. Mr. A said that during the ten years he and Mrs. A were saving to build the new house, he constantly pictured himself, filled with pride, walking up to the snowy-white entrance of their colonial-type home, throwing open the door and. Finding his wife ready to. Greet him?both of them thrilled with the thought that this was their own home. Instead, never once during the three years they had been living in the new home has he ever entered the front door unless guests were with him. Mrs. A insists that he always tracks in dust on his shoes, and it ruins the appearance of the elegant carpet. So Mr. A always saunters around to the back door and is always greeted by his wife with the same words, "I am so tired I can hardly stand up. The care of this big house is simply killing me. I do nothing but clean from morning till night, except when I am getting your meals ready." Mr. B said, "Before we moved into our new house we always spent the evening in the living room. I could move the easy chair wherever I wanted it, and sometimes I even went to bed without putting the newspaper in its place. But now we spend all our evenings in the little back room that was intended for my den. Somehow, I felt more at home and at ease in the old house." Mrs. B has the reputation of being the most particular housekeeper in the community; and she does not intend to Jose it, even though it is the source of ninety per cent of the nagging which causes misery to every member of the family. 720 BUT what of the homemaker? Homemaking must represent the cooperative efforts of two mates who are concerned with the physical, mental, moral, religious, and emotional development of the members of the family group. In the ideal home, the social environment would serve as a supplement to the physical environment, so that the total environment would provide for the maximum development of the children. There is no profession more challenging and more stimulating than homemaking. We are all cognizant of the fact that the actual housekeeping duties, which are an important part of homemaking, have been greatly simplified and lessened as a result of the mechanization of the home. But that very change has added great responsibilities to the other phases of homemaking. Is there a day in which parents are not confronted with many problems; such as, discipline, respect for authority, granting of freedom without allowing license, or other problems involving the happiness of family members. For the homemaker, the home is a laboratory for living, and each experience is a new experiment; hence, the utmost knowledge, sympathetic understanding, faith and prayers, are required in order to avoid disastrous explosions and wastage of human potentialities. Homemakers are the planners of family living. The foresight and wisdom with which they plan, the interest, thought, time, and energy which they put into their planning largely determine the quality of the home and the future personalities of the children. The first duty of the homemaker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 is the intelligent choice of a standard of living, to which both mates agree. A careful consideration of Hazel Kyrk's statement in regard to the essential ends to be sought and the interests to be realized by a high standard of living will be of great help. She says that wise uses of time and money are those designed to secure in appropriate amounts? (1) The goods necessary for optimum health and physical vigor and, in the case of children, maximum growth. (2) Facilities for the formal education and training of children and for the continuing education of adults. (3) Means for furthering such specific individual interests as painting, drawing, music, sports, dancing, handicrafts, dramatics, gardening, research, imaginative writing. (4) Means of enhancing beauty of the surroundings, inside and outside the house, and for improving personal appearance. (5) Means of securing social intercourse for the sake of friendliness and affection, or for the sake of mental stimulation and experience. (6) Means for securing fun or amusement?the satisfaction of the play interest. (7) Means of securing new experience, aesthetic or otherwise, in connection with people, places, things and ideas. (8) Means of securing rest and relaxation other than the above. (9) Means of securing order and harmony in the routine of consumptive activities and for reducing the time cost of non-pleasurable activities incident to consumption. (10) Housing and equipment that will provide facilities for the activities and social intercourse that go on in the home, and that will afford opportunity for individual privacy." To maintain such a standard of living would indeed represent a profession for the homemaker, equally as intriguing, stimulating, and challUna Bernard Sait, New. Horizons for the Family, pp. 644-57. LESSON DEPARTMENT lenging as any profession one could enter. Parents who are homemakers rather than housekeepers conscientiously ask themiselves the question: "What does our home do to the people who live in it?" rather than, "How does our house and yard look to the people who see it?" In establishing their standard of living, real homemakers regard the second consideration a supplement to the first. If our home does for people what we wish it to do, we must determine what we think a home is for. Wood gives us a valuable suggestion along this line. He says there are three simple, major purposes of a home: (1) It is a place to provide physical comforts and necessities. (2) Because it is a place where we have to meet, it must provide fun, pleasure and a good time. (3) Because of the naturalness of the life in it, it is the ideal place in which to learn to live well. It should not be looked on as: (1) In institution to be endured. (2) An "eternal bulwark," regardless of whether it makes people happy. (3) A place to perpetuate certain manners, discipline and family traditions." If the home meets the above requirements, the homemaker must be a most ingenious person, ever on the alert to devise ways and means whereby the home may represent a combination of the skill of the housekeeper and the skill of the homemaker. Just one example of such a combination of skills: A mother of three small children discovered that she was nagging her children altogether too much. Their normal play activities, such as cutting pictures James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, p. 50. Ellen-- 721 out of magazines, making scrap books, molding clay, etc., kept the living room?the only place in which the children could play on winter days?always untidy and in a state of confusion. She provided a large square of heavy denim, securely sewed a metal ring to each corner and one on each side. This she placed over the carpet, and the children soon learned to be careful to keep all their play. Equipment on the square. If an emergency arose which called for an immediate transformation of the room from a play room to a tidy living room, the den- ~ im was picked up and hung on a hook in the closet. This practice, she said, saved her not only embarrassing moments but also much wear and tear on her nerves. The children were spared a great deal of nagging and scolding. The test of whether one is a homemaker or a housekeeper is: "What is my home doing to the people who live in it?" If one is irritated to the point of nagging at the sight of a misplaced book or newspaper, it is an indication that one is primarily a housekeeper rather than a homemaker; probably such a one should consult a doctor, because she most likely belongs to the class known as "The Nervous Housewife." Questions and Problems (1) Study each of the factors that constitute Kyrk's standard of living and suggest at least one field of knowledge with which the homemaker must be familiar in order to be able to achieve such a standard. (2) Give two suggestions or practices that will facilitate the realization of each of the ten factors. (3) Have each class member give at least one of her homemaking practices. 722 References Una Bernard Sait, New Horizons for the Family, Chapters 21, 22, 23, 24. James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, Chapters 3 and 4. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 "Home For All the Family," J. Bessems, Hygeia, August, 1938. "Home Is Where the Heart Lies," F. Hunt, Better Homes and Gardens, September, 1935.; "Every Home a Laboratory", J. E. Anderson,. Parents Magazine, October, 1932. Nlisston LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XIII Who Shall take the Prophet's Place? (Tuesday, January 21, 1941) AFTER the death of Joseph Smith, a great silence fell upon Hancock county, where the City of Nauyoo was situated, and all the counties nearby. The non-Mormons were afraid. Nauvoo had a body of soldiers trained in the art of war and all armed. It was called the Nauvoo Legion and numbered close to five thousand men. The outsiders were fearful that this army would fall upon them and play havoc. That is what would have happened in any other westerm community under the circumstances. That is what the Gentiles there would have done if one of their. Number had been killed. But the Saints did not take to their guns. They were too much stunned by what had happened to do that, too cast down in their thoughts and feelings. 'They were not a lawless but a law-abiding people, accustomed to settling their difficulties in peaceful ways; and their leaders counseled peace. They did not take the law into their own hands. They stayed at home nursing their grief. All Nauvoo had gone out to meet the bodies of the dead leaders; these had been quietly buried at night, where vandals would not know how to reach them. After that, the people had gone about their business as usual, saddened by the recent tragedy. At the time of the murder of Joseph and Hyrum Smith only two of the Apostles were at home. 'They were John Taylor and Willard Richards. Elder Taylor had to remain in Carthage for some time on account of his wounds. All the other Apostles were away on missions. One was in Ohio, two were in Boston, and the rest were scattered throughout the East and Middle West. One and all, however, heard of the death of the Prophet and his brother and hastened home to see what might be done. THE one question uppermost in every mind during these dreadful days was this: Who will lead LESSON DEPARTMENT the Church now? And an important question it was, too. You see, Joseph was a young man when he died?only thirty-eight. For fourten years he had led the Saints through many a strange and difficult scene. They had come to depend on him as children depend on their parents. As Elder John Taylor said once, after the tragedy in Carthage, "In the midst of difficulties he was always the first in motion; in critical positions his counsel was always sought. As our prophet he approached our God, and obtained His will. But now our leader was gone, and amid the fiery ordeal that we then had to pass through, we were left alone without his aid. He had spoken for the last time on earth." As always on such occasions there ' were ambitious men who sought to confuse the thought of the Saints. Sidney Rigdon, who had been the first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, came all the way from Pennsylvania, where he had gone to live, to propose that he be made "guardian" of the organization. But the people did not want a "guardian," least of all did the Apostles. Besides, Sidney Rigdon had not been in the favor of President Smith for some time. Then there were others, less well known. They, too, would lead the Church. A lawyer by the name of James J. Strang, of Michigan, tried to make the Saints believe that the Prophet had given him authority to take the reins of power in the Church. There were a few others, of even lesser importance, who rose up with their claims to leadership. One and all of these, however, disappeared gradually from sight into darkness and the night, as President Brigham Young said they 723 would. The men were cut off from the Church for their evil purposes, some of them for their transgressions, and the Church went on without them. Still the question remained: Who was to take Joseph's place? ON the return of the Apostles to Nauvoo a great meeting was held in the grove. All the Apostles were there, except John 'Taylor, whose wounds confined him to his bed. So, too, was Amasa M. Lyman, whom Joseph had chosen to be his counselor instead of Sidney Rigdon, though he had not yet been sustained by the people, nor ordained. One of the persons at this meeting was a woman, with a baby and a daughter of eight. They were sitting together on one of the rear seats. The baby was playing with a tin cup, which it let fall on the ground. Both the mother and the little girl stooped to pick it up, to restore it to the baby. All of a sudden the two stopped to listen intently, their heads together not yet raised. Joseph Smith, they believed, was speaking, and Joseph Smith was dead. Had he come to life again? They knew that voice, because they had heard it many times in private and in public. They could not be mistaken. They raised' their heads, turned their eyes to the pulpit, and there, sure enough, was the Prophet standing as he had done many times before his death. They were puzzled, this woman and the girl. Before they had stooped to pick up the tin cup, it was Brigham Young who was speaking, and now it was Joseph Smith?voice and appearance and all. It was very strange. Presently, however, the voice and 724 the appearance became those of Brigham Young again. They had witnessed a miracle, so people told them after the meeting. Many others had seen and heard the same thing. The Lord had taken this means, apparently, to let the Saints know whom to look to for guidance. This little girl lived to be one hundred and three years old. With her mother she came to Utah, married a man named Garner, reared a very large family, and died in 1938, not far from Salt Lake City. Many others who were at this meeting testified to the same transformation of Brigham Young on this occasion. THERE are, as you probably know, two groups of men in the Church who are in general authority. They are: first, the First Presidency and second, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. At the time of the tragedy of Carthage the First Presidency of the Church consisted of Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and William Law. Really, however, neither Rigdon nor Law were counselors, for both of them were in disfavor with Joseph and the Saints. In name, of course, they were still counselors, though it was hardly probable that they would retain these positions very long. As a matter of fact, the Prophet had made a choice of Amasa Lyman as one of his counselors; though, as already stated, he had not been set apart or sustained. At any rate, on the death of the President there would be no counselors in the First Presidency. The Prophet had said as much before his death. "Where I am not, there is no First Presidency." And so, on his death, there was no First Presidency of the Church. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER, 1940 The Quorum of the Twelve Apostles at this time consisted of the following men: Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Parley P. Pratt, William B. Smith, Orson Pratt, John E. Page, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, George A. Smith, Willard Richards, and Lyman Wight. Amasa Lyman had been in the Quorum but had been taken out to be made counselor to the President of the Church. Of this group of men, Brigham Young was president. Speaking of the Twelve Apostles, the revelation (Section 107, verse 24) says, "They form a quorum, equal in authority and power to the three presidents previously mentioned." This cleats up the situation as to who was to take the place of Joseph Smith on his death. The Apostles clearly understood the order of 'the Church in this respect. So the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles became head of the Church, in accordance with the law as expressed in this revelation. They remained its head until another President was chosen three years later, Questions 1. What question came up at the death of the Prophet? Why was it so important? 2. Had any provision been made for a situation like this? If so, what was it? 3. Give the testimony of Sister Garner about what took place at the meeting mentioned? How generally was this miracle witnessed? 4. State the law in the Church as to the authority of the First Presidency of the Church and that of the Quorum of the Twelve. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. RELIEF SOCIETY BOOKS FOR 1940-41 LITERARY COURSE Order Yours TODAY editions, but only one is necessary to Price $3.00 Regular  price THE SONG OF YEARS The TREE OF LIBERTY by Eliabeth Page. The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price.  The best known Novels of George Eliot in one book: Adam Bede, Silas Marner, The Mill On The Floss, Romola. This is the recommended book??$1.25- NOW is the time to select your Special Relief Society Price..$1.10 THE SONG OF YEARS By Bess Streeter Aldrich Regular Price..$2.50 We also have copies of Literary Course Books of previous years, for those who wish to complete their libraries. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah Phone 3-4591 AS MUCH OF HEAVEN is Visible as We Have &yes to See Ww LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Phone 4-9126 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ADAM BEDE By George Eliot A choice is offered of this book in two buy. We recommend (b) edition. (a) Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, pecial Relief Society Price.. (b) The Best Known Novels of George Eliot, Modern Library, Inc., which includes four Nan Regular Price $1.25 Salt Lake City THE TREE OF LIBERTY By Elizabeth Page The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price.. By Bess Streeter Aldrich Regular Price $2.50 Special Relief Society Price.......$2.00 CHRISTMAS CARDS. See our beautiful assortment. 466 24th Street, Ogden Foresight ae Those rugged pioneers of the West, whose memory we delight to honor, left the impress of their solid virtues upon us of the present in many ways. It is not at all strange that in spite of violently changing conditions, the habit of preparing for the future, which those pioneers practiced, should find expression in our day in the storage of grain and other food against the day of possible need. Indeed, there seems to be something eternally right and sound in the habits of life and the methods of our pioneers. This organization, throughout its years ?, 4 ing, has tried to adhere to the ideals of '? Printing Order service which the pioneer founders of nical methods and equipment have vastly improved, the principle of giving the: N E W gS P R E S g possible price is as rigidly followed toof catering to the users of good print-this business practiced. While techbuyer the best printing at the lowest day as it was ninety years ago. Ee us about your next THE DESERET 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CTIY, UTAH CONFERENCE ISSUE Our Gover The MAYFLOWER, its 102 pilgrim passengers, their ideals and purposes come forcibly to our minds at this season of the year. This year we may more fully appreciate the determination that directed this small boat against a comparatively unknown ocean, and the band of men and women who sacrificed the personal comfort and safety possible in the old world for the privileges of freedom in an unknown, savage inhabited land, where they must needs start with their hands, a few tools, and faith in God?to build AMERICA. The finest works of man is building the Character of Man LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Phone 4-9126 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 