RESIGNATION
By Irene R. Davis
I am weary when the night does fall;
My soul is oppressed when I see all
The tasks I have left undone.
A garment torn, a finger print
Where wee hands want to stray;
And though I yearn for careless ease,
My duties say me, "Nay."
My spirit would in fancy flit
Across the meadows clear.
My heart goes dancing with the breeze,
And fairy bells I hear.
But, I must stay at home to clean;
An upturned face I kiss,
A smudgy tear I wipe away,
But I should cherish this—
I have a neighbor 'cross the way,
And oh, she envies me!
She would give a world of joys to share
The little cares I see.
And so—
I am weary when the night does fall;
But I thank God I have them all—
My Cares!
4. What happened to the Saints there?
What differences existed between them and their neighbors?
5. How had the Saints treated g F
Note: Map used in July issue of the city of Zion. Tell about the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church
U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
PERMIT No. 690
THE THREE-PIECE WARDROBE SUIT
It?s America?s big fasion for 1940
The versatile: three-piece wardrobe suit that typifies the new feeling for common sense, simplicity and efficiency in fashion, sheer wearability will delight you
You'll have a complete costume for spring's first brisk days, an ultrasmart topper for wear with all your frocks, clever two-piece suit that's right the clock around, and a skirt to pair with blouses.
A change of accessories will change its whole aspect from "sports to dress.
The Relief Society MAGAZINE
Make It a Hobby to Sew and Save!
INTRODUCING
Miss Edna Mae Nye, who will conduct sewing classes ? free of charge ? on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday.
Buy your materials at Auerbach's and receive free instruction, on the fourth floor.
Classes will be conducted Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Miss Edna Mae Nye, well known professional seamstress, who will conduct Auerbach Sewing Classes.
VISIT AUERBACH'S FABRIC CENTER TOMORROW AND SEE THE LARGE, COMPLETE STOCKS OF NEW SPRING FABRICS.
4 You'll revel in the beauty of our fabric displays! You'll thrill to the
57% unlimited selection
Offered in a glorious array of fashionable
# fabrics! Silks! Woolens! Cottons! Novelty summer fabrics! Stripes and plains!
Be among the many who have learned the economy which sewing brings
Who know the smart clothes which can be fashioned to your own taste, at a wise, substantial saving.
Enroll for classes in our Fabric Department?Street Floor
AUERBACH'S
FOUNDED 1864 PHONE WAS. 300
Index to Advertisers
Auerbach Co Inside Front Cover
Beneficial Life Co Inside Back Cover
Bennett Glass & Paint Co 282
Cloverleaf Dairy 283
Deseret Book Co Inside Back Cover
Deseret Mortuary 213
Fisher Baking Co Inside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College Inside Back Cover
Mountain Fuel Supply 213
O. P. Skaggs 213
Porter-Walton Co 284
The Newhouse Hotel 213
Utah Power & Light Co 282
University of Utah 283
W. P. Fuller Co 281
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS
Pick and Choose
We like particular choosers. We ask you, our customers, to pick and choose from our quality fruits and vegetables. We are 'choosey' too when we buy because we pride ourselves in our selection and we like to delight you.
O. P SKAGGS 1000 Stores
A Hearty Welcome awaits you at
The NEWHOUSE HOTEL
SALT LAKE CITY
Every one of the management is an L. D. S. Member and active worker. Our $200.000.00 modernizing program. Now nearing completion, has made available the best hotel accommodations in the west at our same popular prices.
J. Holman Waters. Mrs, J. H. Waters, W. Ross Sutton Pres. Mgrs.
ONLY THE GAS REFRIGERATOR IS PERMANENTLY SILENT
COME AND SEE THE NEW MODELS
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY
Serving 23 Utah Communities
SERVICE
It is our aim to thoughtfully arrange and conduct every funeral service in a way that will beautify the memory of departed loved ones, and at the same time help to soften the grief of those left behind.
In time of need?remember?
DESERET MORTUARY
"Service Above All''
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Salt Lake Payson Ogden Provo
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII - APRIL, 1940 No. 4
Contents
Special Features
Frontispiece?Challenge Alice Morrey Bailey 216
From Seed-Packets to Blossoming Flowers Hazel D. Moyle 217
A Hobby Margaret Lyman Schreiner 221
Color In The Home I. A. Fisher 227
Achievement Recognition (Membership Drive):
Treasures I Have Found DeEtte B. Stewart 235
Pearls of Great Price Lena Lee 237
Building Peace and Happiness Over a Foundation of Handicaps Rose Duke 239
Oliver Cowdery's Courtship E. Cecil McGavin 242
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde 245
Happy Birthday (Lula Greene Richards) Ramona W. Cannon 248
The Annual Reminder of Tithing The Presiding Bishopric 259
Fiction
Moving Again Mr. And Mrs, A. H. Gibbons ?
Handicapped Boy (Mothers' Day Story) Margaret Johnson 250
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 6) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 263
White Rose Beatrice Rordame Parsons 270
General Features
What the Gospel Means to Me Elsie Standring Collier 241
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 253
Editorials:
Beautification 254;
Primary Reorganization 255
Notes to the Field:;
Message from the General Church Music Committee 257
Items of Interest;
Relief Society Conference Visitors 258!
Children's Friend, Souvenir Number ?
University of Utah School of Social Work 258
The Smoke Nuisance Dr. T. J. Howells 262
Notes from the Field Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 275
Music Department (How to Learn a New Song) Wade N. Stephens 280
Poetry
Challenge' Alice Morrey Bailey 216
'Liberate The Flame Anna Prince Redd 226
Greatness Mabel Jones 234
Eternal' Spring Lorine Lee 244
April Rain J. B. Jennings 261
Prayer For Today Lucille Waters Mattson 269
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance, Single copy, 10c
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return
THE COVER
"INSPIRATION SPIRES" is the title of the photograph used as a cover for this issue of the "Magazine." Mr. Norman Smith, the photographer, has in his possession over one hundred negatives of the Church buildings located on Temple Square, and considers this the best of his collection. This picture has been shown in a number of national exhibits and has been accepted by outstanding salon juries of several foreign countries. Mr. Smith termed the arrangement of the buildings, 'a photographer's dream". President Brigham Young selected the Temple site four days after the arrival of the Pioneers in the Salt Lake valley. "Religious buildings are the creations and expressions of the feelings of the people who build." The Tabernacle and Temple are the expressions of deep religious hopes and desires. To thousands of Latter-day Saints the Temple spires are a symbol of the sublime and towering ideals of the Church. These stately towers have long been an inspiration to our people, filling them with reverence and inciting them to good deeds.
CHALLENGE
Green-bannered spring?this bank of daffodils? Whose sun-filled graciousness, unmeasured, spills From up-turned cups of gold?and beauty's wraith Is here. Oh, little sturdy seeds of faith, If you can draw from mud and rotted mould, From long-drawn winter's dark, unfruited cold And gather strength where last year's ruins lie To make a lovely thing?so, Then, can I. ?Alice Morrey Bailey
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII APRIL, 1940 No. 4
From Seed-Packets to Blossoming Flowers By Hazel D. Moyle
"EVERY person should have a garden," says Margaret E. Sangster, "even if that garden is only a window-box set on a sunny ledge, or a flat bowl of lily-bulbs on a table. Every person in the world should have the splendor and peace of a garden to fill the hours with living music and lyric verse... For a garden holds the essence of life and tells the story of life's loveliness." Yes, indeed, every one should have a garden in which to learn the intimate secrets and beauties of the teeming world of green-growing things. But what of the busy mother whose every hour is filled to the brim with the daily tasks of keeping her family in order? How can she find time to give the long hours necessary to the cultivation of flowers, or find the means for purchasing expensive plants, when every dollar is already needed in a dozen places? Yet it is the busy mother, most of all, who needs the respite and serenity that comes from. Close contact with the mysterious processes of nature in a garden; most of all, it is her children who will respond to its beauties and carry forever the precious and fragrant memory of "mother's flower garden" in their hearts. So this article will deal with the kind of garden that can be made by spending a few cents for a dozen packages of seeds?more or less?and will tell of flowers that will grow with a minimum of care. It will tell of a small garden that will supply bounteous summer-long beauty for adorning the home both inside and out-of-doors. Whoever plants such a garden may not carry off the highest prize for the rarest flower displayed at the Flower Show, but she will have quantities of time-tried flowers that have been loved and planted by so many past generations that their history is all tangled up in the history of civilization. She may even win a blue ribbon or two if she can purchase good varieties of seeds and bestow a little extra care upon them, for even judges at flower shows are susceptible to the charms of these well-loved flowers. BUT to begin: First, a suitable piece of ground must be selected. This should be one that has the sun most of the day and that is away from tall trees, so that their roots will not encroach upon the flowers. A plot facing south is ideal, although an eastern or western exposure is also good. Ground facing north is the least desirable, because some parts will not receive much sun; but even this can be made to yield good bloom. Do not undertake too large a piece of ground, but rather use a small plot and prepare this well, for then it will produce more bloom than a poorly prepared larger space. First, take up all stones and trash. Then, if possible, apply a generous layer of old barnyard manure that has stood for a year or more. This will do wonders in making the soil fertile, loose and friable, and will help to conserve water as well as produce larger and better flowers. Next, the ground must be well
NEW GIANT FLOWERED CALENDULA YELLOW COLOSSAL The biggest and most profuse blooming of all large flowered calendulas.
And deeply dug, incorporating the manure to a good depth. This will encourage the roots downward, thus producing stronger and better plants and flowers. Digging should be done as soon as possible in the spring while the ground is soft and easily worked, after which it must be raked fine and leveled. Then it is all ready for planting the seeds. We are choosing only seeds that are hardy enough to be planted right out in the ground, and two of these should be planted as soon as the ground is ready. Larkspur and Shirley Poppies grow best when planted while the weather is still cool, and these are two of our finest annuals. Sow each of these near the center of the bed, in long backward-slanting rifts. Mark the ground where they are planted with a deep indentation either with a hoe or with small sticks thrust into the ground about them, so that other seeds will not be planted in the same space. The larkspur has recently been so improved that it now rivals the perennial tall delphinium, and can be purchased in many lovely colors. Do not buy a mixed package of seeds, but choose one of the fine colors of the newly named types. Carmine King is a glowing coral, while Peach Blossom is a delicate pink of large branched habit. Others are lavender, blue, and white. The Shirley Poppy produces silken flowers, which appear as though spun from some fairy loom, with every enchanting shading and degree and combination of fluttering pink-and-white loveliness; these delightful annuals will also seed themselves all about for years to come. They should be planted in a narrow rift so that they can be pulled up when their bloom is over and other plants allowed to cover the space. Cover the seeds lightly with soil. Let us next provide a tall background by setting tall and strong stakes at the back of our plot, about 21% feet apart. These must be heavy enough to support the vines of the Heavenly Blue Morning Glories that we will train upon them. Stout twine must be strung for the vines to climb upon, and this can also be stretched between the stakes so that a curtain of this rare, lovely blue glory can form a beautiful back-drop for the flower bed. The seeds of the Morning glory can be planted right where they are to grow as soon as the weather has become really warm (usually the latter part of April). Several seeds should be planted by each stake after first clipping off a tiny piece from the pointed end of the seed to help germination. Place a glass fruit bottle over each planting to make a small greenhouse, for this morning glory is a native of Mexico and dislikes cold. Remove the glass when the plants are growing and all danger of frost is over. Now we must select an edging-plant from the many fine low-growing annuals. If we can succeed in developing a good front-line planting and a good background, considerably more than half the battle of making a beautiful planting is won. The
NEW GIANT IMPERIAL LARKSPUR GLITTERS
219 Dwarf French Marigolds make a free-flowering low border for those who love rich velvety orange and gold colors, while Ageratum will provide a ribbon of soft, pastel blue loveliness. Sweet Alyssum is also delightful, covering every inch of space with frothy white flowers that are sweetly fragrant until winter arrives. The seeds of any of these should be sown in rows about six inches from the edge, and covered with three times their thickness of fine soil. Immediately back of this low edging, we will sow the medium-tall flowers, such as the old-fashioned calendula (grandmother called it pot-marigold). But oh, how improved are these new hybrids of to-
220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
NEW SEMI-TALL SCABIOSA?HEAVENLY BLUE
day! One named Yellow Colossal is claimed to be the biggest calendula in the world, with flowers of clear yellow measuring 41% inches across. Scabiosa, Heavenly Blue, would be a good choice to alternate with the calendula, for this also is medium height, and produces large round balls of soft, azure-blue flowers. The rest of the entire bed should be filled with zinnias and African Marigolds. Plant each in blocks of one color?never use a mixed color-package. Plant two or three seeds together so that when they are germinated all but the strongest can be pulled up or transplanted, and set 8 inches apart. THE ground must be kept moist after the seeds are planted until they are up, and some gardeners cover the ground with burlap sacks to help keep them from drying out. (Continued on page 284)
A Hobby By Margaret Lyman Schreiner
THERE are few women, I believe, who do not have a potential talent for needle work. My own interests, as a girl, were in books and music, and while I learned the fundamentals of sewing, I little dreamed that some of the happiest hours of my life would be spent with a needle. Domesticity had but a superficial interest for me, and I lent only half an ear when my mother occasionally remarked, "I would rather be able to bake a perfect loaf of bread than to paint a picture," but I paused more reflectively when I heard a renowned physician say, "I have great regard for a certain woman who is a gifted violinist, but she excels also as a housekeeper, and I admire her ability to cook and sew infinitely more." The ordinary duties of a housewife are not regarded as being glamorous, but there is surely charm and joy in doing any task beautifully. I once saw a distinguished woman dry dishes in a captivating way. Each plate was given a happy friendly polish and then set down gently, almost tenderly, in a fashion such as might be used in bidding someone an affectionate farewell. It was impressive to see an everyday task done with finesse. The care of small children is another familiar duty that may be carried out in a matter-of-fact way or may be accomplished in a glorious manner as beautiful to behold as the work of a great actress. It is a privilege to see a child gracefully managed by a thoughtful adult who is courteous and gentle, is unhurried and unruffled, who minds her charge with the love and eagerness and joy with which an artist handles his brushes. When my first son was fifteen months old, I made a practice of spending four hours a day out-of-doors with him. I was fully aware that many children play by themselves in perfect contentment, and I rather begrudged the fact that mine displayed such a remarkable amount of unhappiness when left alone in the garden. I sighed longingly as I passed by our musical instruments and our books and magazines, which did not fit well into a child's fresh-air program, but I found that my mending could be taken outside and accomplished with no anesthetizing effect upon my conversational powers as they were taxed by such an infant. I sewed everything in my house that could be attacked with a needle, and then I realized that I liked to sew, and I began a tapestry. TAPESTRY-MAKING is an old, old pastime indulged in since the beginning of history. We have fragments of this craft from the later Stone Age and from early Egyptian times. A Greek vase made during the fifth century shows Penelope weaving in a tantalizing fashion before her distraught suitors. Tapestry specimens have come down to us from every civilization. It is the most ancient of all the arts. The method of tapestry-making
222 is to weave colored wools, called weft threads, on to warp threads in a loom or frame. The weft threads go both behind and in front of the warp threads which are completely concealed. Each warp thread is virtually wrapped with the colored wool threads. The result is a woven material that is quite different from our customary fabrics where warp and woof are interlaced. The object of this type of work all down through the ages has been to make a record, a pictorial record, "lest the deeds of those great men, our fathers, should perish". There are many ways of satisfying this desire to record, or perpetuate the present, and today our principal method is with words, but archaeologists have found language to be a tricky medium which sometimes does not survive, and which is always subject to controversy. On the other hand, what we see with the eye needs no translation or interpretation. A picture gives a record that is both permanent and universal. After the desire to record was satisfied, tapestries were put to a utilitarian use. They were hung in ancient buildings several feet from the wall to serve as draught screens, or were suspended between pillars to shut off one apartment from another. They were generally hung in folds like portieres; hence, they were not woven with a symmetrical, central design, which would have been badly distorted when pushed aside by someone entering a room, but were well covered with forms and figures and had a crowded background. Large uninterrupted areas of wool are monotonous; hence, foliage is excellent for tapestry design,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 and since mediaeval times, verdure and mille fleurs patterns (patterns of a thousand flowers) have been in high favor. The decorative value of the draught screen appealed to the wealthy, who alone could afford them, and from earliest times tapestries became things of great beauty. Tapestry hangings grew to be the most cherished possessions of the church, the kings and the nobles, and were displayed with pride on state occasions on the walls of palaces and chateaux. At times of religious festivals, churches and cathedrals were draped both inside and outside with precious hangings. They were prized not only for their intrinsic beauty but for their biblical subject matter. The Creation, the story of Abraham, of Moses, of the Virgin, the Passion of our Lord, the acts of the Apostles and dozens of others have all been woven in tapestry. Similarly recorded are great historical events, such as the "Foundations of Rome", the "Defeat of the Armada", the "Conquest of Tunis", and the "Story of William of Normandy and How He Conquered England". In fact, all of history, both religious and political, can be seen today pictured in tapestry. Tapestry has even played a part in the making of history. It was once the custom for shrewd rulers and others of wealth and importance to present gifts of costly hangings to those with whom they had to make negotiations and treaties. When Philip the Hardy went on a political mission to the Pope, he carried with him gifts of the finest tapestries of sacred subjects he could procure. When the French wished
A HOBBY
This illustration is of a tapestry made by Margaret Lyman Schreiner. It is mounted on the back of a large chair of English walnut in the classic period of Italian Renaissance. The tapestry is entitled "Sight" or the lady and the mirror and is a reproduction of one of a set of six great masterpieces of French art known as the "Lady and the Unicorn". The originals are done in heroic size and hang today in the Cluny museum in Paris.
224 to influence the English in the mapping out of terms and agreements, the suggestions were accompanied by hangings woven of gold and silver to influence the recipients favorably. If an opponent was to be won over, or a friend rewarded, a gift of tapestry was the usual procedure. The various royal houses accumulated tremendous collections of hangings. Special vaulted buildings were erected to insure their safety and to protect them from fire and dampness. On occasions of ceremony, they were brought out and hung both indoors and in courtyards in rich profusion. Charles the Bold, (1433-1477) Duke of Burgundy, always surrounded himself with the tapestries he loved regardless of whether he was alone, entertaining, or traveling. He even carried hangings to the battlefield for his tent there. It was the favorite way of displaying pomp and wealth and luxury, and the collections were handed down and added to until the accumulations became priceless in value. TAPESTRY-MAKING is a unique art because it is a cooperative process. It requires the brains and skill of many workers; it is a long and tedious task requiring months and years of painstaking toil, and it is an art that is exceedingly costly and can only exist under munificent patronage. The love of kings and noblemen for fine and costly treasures fostered the practice of weaving, whose golden age was from the thirteenth to the eighteenth centuries, at which time enthusiasm for it began to wane. The aristocracy that had nurtured it was disappearing, in-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940. terests changed, life and living were no longer glorious riots of luxury and spending. The elegance of hand-wrought skills was too costly to flourish in the new regime. Another factor contributed to the decline of tapestry?the unwillingness of painters to subordinate themselves to weavers. Great artists, beginning with Raphael in the thirteenth century, were retained to make tapestry designs, or cartoons as they are properly termed. These cartoons had their own peculiar requirements. The artist had to adapt his work to the technique of weaving. In fact, the cartoon really served only as a suggestion to the weaver, who took the artist's pattern and freely interpreted it in wool. Hence, the success of the finished product was not attributed to the artist but was signed by the master weaver who, with his helpers, worked with skill and patience for years to fashion a single tapestry. A weaver was an artist in his own right?less creative from the standpoint of ideas, but beautifully versed in matters of color, taste, judgment and dyes. Chemistry advances increased the color range to a thousand dyes, each available in twelve tints. Furthermore, weaving technique was perfected until delicate human features could be reproduced with breath-taking accuracy. This perfection in an art that took centuries to ripen was achieved in the eighteenth century. Weavers went through a fifteen-year apprenticeship. Linen, hemp and cotton warp threads had come into use to gain thinness and strength to support the great weight of finished tapestries. Gold, silver and silk weft
A HOBBY: threads were used with the wool for enrichment. Colors were rampant. Figures were flawless. And when the art had reached this perfect flowering, the painters, who had long been irritated because their cartoons were subject to "editing" by the master weavers, and who now perceived that weaving-technique was capable of perfect imitation, began to demand that their cartoons be reproduced precisely and minutely so that tapestries would have the appearance of oil paintings. Weavers were unable to stem the tide and preserve the traditions of their craft. Tapestry grew into a purely pictorial imitation. It languished as a creative art because its life blood was cut off at the source; its designers had dissolved the partnership; its weavers were victims of the ever-existing bogy of jealousy. A glorious art wrought with poetry, history and romance went into oblivion. THE tapestry illustrated in connection with this article is a reproduction of one of a set of six great masterpieces of French art known as the "Lady and the Unicorn". These tapestries hang today in the Cluny museum in Paris. Their origin is somewhat surrounded in mystery, although it is believed that they were made in Aubusson, France, about 1460, and were woven to the order of Le Viste, Lord of Fresne, as most of the pieces bear his coat-of-arms. The original tapestries are done in heroic size and represent the five senses. The subject of each is a lady beautifully clad and richly jeweled who stands in the midst of a forest of flowers inhabited by birds and
225 animals, the most interesting of which is the unicorn. The unicorn is a creature of fable and is characterized by one long straight horn. This animal was considered a symbol of chastity during the middle ages, and it was believed that it could not be captured except by a virgin. I have worked in needlepoint two reproductions of the Cluny series? "Hearing" or the lady and the organ (shown in March issue, p. 164) and "Sight" or the lady and the mirror illustrated in this issue. I use the lady and the organ as a wall hanging. It pictures a courtyard scene with a turreted castle in the background and with trees and flowers in full bloom. The portable organ is played by the lady, and the bellows are manipulated by her lady-in-waiting. A lute player accompanies. The lady and the mirror I had mounted on the back of a large chair which was specially made to fit the tapestry. The chair is of English walnut in the classic period of Italian Renaissance. The design pictures a virgin enticing a unicorn with a mirror in which may be seen the reflection of the animal's head. The lion is supporting a standard bearing the family arms of Le Viste. When I purchased the pattern, which had been imported from France, the lady's face and the reflection of the unicorn in the mirror were already woven. They are worked in silk, and the stitches are so fine that they had to be done under a glass. On the seat of the chair, the lion and the unicorn motif is repeated, as are the riots of mille fleurs, the Gothic feature which is perfectly represented in the Cluny tapestries.
226 The little one-year-old boy who was responsible for arousing such a deep interest in tapestry-weaving is now eight, and quite self-sufficient when he romps out-of-doors. But his mother has two cherished tapestries with which to recall the days
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 of his dynamic wish to be close to her. Editor's note: The above article is a companion article to "My Relief Society Tapestry", written by Mary Grant Judd and published in the March issue of the Magazine.
LIBERATE THE FLAME By Anna Prince Redd
A talent hid, not used, is like a case That, full of gems and fabulous in worth, Is closed and locked, the key hid deep in earth. Within?dull rocks?the stones all lie; the space, A tomb of cold and rayless black. To grace With scintillating warmth they must have birth In light, full ray of sun beneath the girth Of fast-bound lid, the darkness to efface.
And I have found the key. I'll lift the lid: The ray but strikes my soul-fire into flame. My talents are my jewels; used not hid, They daily grow in beauty?this the key. Though it unlock no worldly wealth or fame I cannot estimate its worth to me.
Color in the Home By I. A. Fisher
COLOR is everywhere, in everything. Its power and influence affects the daily life of everyone. It stimulates our senses and emotions, feeds us aesthetically, and at times regulates and controls our moods, making us happy and gay or sad and gloomy, when the days are bright and colorful or drab and gray. Since color is such a universal language, a knowledge and appreciation of it is very important, and we should not only try to understand it but also to speak it beautifully in our homes. In spite of its tremendous importance in our lives, artists and scientists have never agreed on its fundamental principles. For centuries there has been practically no progress or development in this field. Its nomenclature is even less distinct, with such words as "tints", "shades", "hues", "tones", and "values" as ill used as the rules that are supposed to govern them. Only in the past few years has the development of sterile light, violet light, black light, fluorescent light, indirect lighting, and filter lighting given us an inkling as to the tremendous possibilities of color in our lives, and the unlimited opportunities ahead. For years colorists have claimed that so-called complementary colors ?red-green, blue-orange, and yellow-violet?are always harmonious; others claimed them inharmonious. Some regard associated colors?red-yellow-orange, yellow-blue-green?as harmonious combinations, while others claim them inharmonious. Almost any combination of hues is stated to be both good and bad. In spite of all this confusion, there are a few things we do know about color. We know that nothing on earth possesses any color in and of itself. The sun's rays consist of bands of light vibrations of varying frequencies. Certain surface pigments reflect certain frequencies that pass through our eyes, giving us that color sensation. When objects absorb all vibrations, we get a black sensation; when they reflect all vibrations, we get a white sensation. We know that there are no so-called primary, secondary, and tertiary colors. No mixture of pure pigments will give us another pure color. Many pigments that produce color sensations cannot be intermixed, and some produce colors that we can get no other way except by breaking up light. Complementary and associated colors are not necessarily harmonious or inharmonious, but the use of them governs their harmony. WHATEVER color theory we believe in, or whether we have a theory at all, seems of little importance so long as we realize that there are no bad color combinations except when we make them so. All colors that are not discordant are harmonious, and no colors if handled properly are ever discordant. Good color schemes never come by chance but are always a matter of proper
228 balance and of relationships ably and sensitively constructed. Suppose, for example, you are planning the color scheme for your home. The style of architecture, materials, location, neighboring houses, surroundings, and climate should all be considered in determining the correct outside colors. Interior architecture, wall and ceiling space, amount of natural light each room receives and artificial lighting equipment should be studied for a harmonious interior color scheme. Homes of formal architecture?such as Georgian or French? should be painted in formal, light grays, creams, or off-whites. Formal or period interiors would likewise require restraint and precise treatment. Informal or modern interiors should be given a more colorful handling. It is necessary also that in selecting individual room colors, adjoining rooms and halls be considered for effective harmony in the house as a whole. Colors today possess dimensional form and depth. To modern designers, paint is almost a structural medium. Lines and walls can be brought forward, ceilings raised or lowered by colors in tones that recede or project. After a careful consideration of these problems and a decision is reached as to the general colors that are best suited to your needs, the actual selection of tints, shades, and colors themselves should be governed by these facts: 1. The possession of a common quality or bond always promotes closer harmony. In using blue and pink, if the pink has a very faint blue cast, or the blue a pink
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 cast, there is better harmony. Everything in nature is an example of this law. The green stem of a rose has considerable red in it, and the red flower has green in it. 2. The choice of qualities is usually more important than the choice of colors. 3. No matter how many hues a color scheme contains, association into not more than three basic colors promotes harmony. 4. Very few hues, especially when disassociated, can be safely used in one scheme. 5. To avoid monotony, one tone should predominate in surface space, one in intensity?the first a tint, and the second a color. THE great majority of homes in America that have improper or faulty color combinations are either: (1) too dark and dingy, (2) too monotonous and uninteresting, or (3) disturbing because of too strong or too many colors. To avoid or overcome dark and dingy rooms (1) it is well to remember that white reflects approximately 80% of its illumination; yellow, 60%; orange, 33%; and blue, 11%. In selecting wall-paper or paint, it is important to know that all tones look very much lighter in small samples than they do on large surfaces. A safe procedure, unless you are using off-whites or a very pale canary yellow, is to select the samples you like and then buy the materials 33% to 50% lighter. Monotonous or uninteresting rooms (2) are caused by the overdominance of one color, too many tones of one color, or hues that do not go well together because of the way they have been used. Blues and greens, purples and browns, or worse still, purple-and-blue-greens, (Continued on page 281)
Moving Again By Mr. And Mrs. A. H. Gibbons
Eileen hurried in out of the cold spring night, hung her worn fur coat on its own hanger in the far end of the clothes closet and stepped up to the warm fireplace where Don sat thinking. In the high altitude of the Wasatch Mountains, evenings were cool in spite of the springtime, but Eileen didn't mind the cold. She was glad they had a home here in this beautiful valley, and there was warmth in her heart for the calmness and peace and security she felt with Don. He looked up steadily at his wife as she came in?one of those precise, highly ambitious little women who would have arranged the stars in rows and marched them up and down the heavens?and wondered what her reaction to his words would be. "I've some good news for you, Eileen," he greeted in his calm, tactful way. ""We won't have to do any more fixing about this place. The Doctor was here to tell us that he is bargaining with another party for cash." Don stood up quickly and laid his hand across her shoulders. "I hope you won't mind too much, dear." "What? Mind? Why of all the sophisticated nerve! Just you wait till I get a chance to tell him whose place this is. I'll tell him to go? to go?" "To go climb a tree,' Don supplied. "Don't get all fussed up, Eileen. After all?" "Why that deceitful, mean, old, mean, old?" "Man," said Don, a hint of an amused smile hesitating on his face. Don was always slopping over with generosity, because he believed that kindness and calmness would whittle any trouble down to man size and put a good deal more fun into living. "The idea of his pulling a stunt like that. He can't do it! Why he promised us a year to make that down payment if we'd take this place, Don, and all the rent we've been paying was supposed to be going on the purchase price. Why didn't you tell him what he promised us? That we believed him? Why didn't you tell him what we've done to this place?" "Eileen, listen. Put on the brakes. We can move again, we've done it before," Don said with quiet confidence, that inevitable piece of paper and pencil coming from his pocket. "You're telling me?" Eileen snapped. Don very thoughtfully made O's and A's on the eight-dollar-and-fifty-cent reminder from the M. & L. Coal Co. To relieve a tense atmosphere, Don always made O's and A's on pieces of folded paper or envelope backs. "I suppose if he can get a good cash price?well, if we were in his shoes maybe we'd want to do the same thing, Eileen." "You wouldn't, Don Whiting, and you know it. If you promised, you'd stick to it. What did he say anyway? Didn't he?" "Just said he's trying to sell the old home place because he can get cash, and all we can do is make payments. Can't blame him much, really."
230 Eileen trembled with' uncontrollable resentment. Don was altogether too patient and tolerant and understanding. And Dr. Pribble couldn't do this to them. He had promised he would let them have the home. She wouldn't move again. She liked this renovated old home with its place for a cow, chickens, garden and a lot of outdoors for three growing children. "We can be glad we found. Out he wasn't going to keep his agreement before we spent any more on the place, - Eileen." Eileen said bitterly, "I don't suppose you remember the new bathroom fixtures, that inlaid linoleum for the kitchen, all the painting and kalsomining? We only spent about four hundred good dollars for improvements, and most of it will stay put while we go blissfully on making payments. No wonder he's got a chance to sell it for cash." "Sh! Mrs. Dewey'll think you're beating me again, honey." Eileen lowered her voice, but with threatening earnestness she reminded him. "Remember this house that morning we came? Plaster and old wall-paper in great heaps all over the kitchen floor, everywhere woodwork that needed scrubbing and two coats of paint, a yard filled with bottles, cans, old straw and rusty stove pipes! I tell you, Don, I won't do that again. I won't move again! Junior and Jackie worked for weeks to get materials up in that big poplar for their tree hut. And for what? Don't you care at all, Don?" "Of course I care, honey. And I don't feel exactly right about this deal, but I can see the Doctor's point of view; and?well, let's just RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 'calm down a bit, honey, and think 'it all over, and maybe we can decide what's best to do about it." Don was made that way, things just naturally kept calm inside, while Eileen blew off the steam for the family. "To. Think you believed that righteous little gnat! You wouldn't even take my warning and get something down in writing. Because he's Dr. Pribble he thinks?he thinks? Well he can't make me move!". "He can very easily, if he wants to. We don't have a written contract you know. There's not a thing you can do, so you might as well?" Eileen's face brightened. "Did you give him the check for April's rent?" "No. I'll send him a check." "Oh, no you won't! We won't pay him another penny. We'll get something for all this work, and we'll stay here till he drags us out. If he comes here after it, I'll tell him to wait?and I mean wait!" "Come on, Mom," he said kindly, placing paper, pencil and alphabet back in his pocket. "I must hie to bed if my students are to gain that portion of their necessary education on the morrow. We won't have to move until the last of April, so we've got more than a month to find a new place. Let's sleep on it, huh?"
SUDDENLY Eileen was ashamed and disgusted with all this useless raving. She was sick inside. She had never been able to accomplish anything by it. All the atmosphere about her, electric with "push", had never penetrated the peace that was with Don, the deep sense of contentment that was part of him. She had preached her acid sermons, which of course she hadn't always entirely meant.
MOVING AGAIN
They had added dramatic thrill to living, perhaps, but they hadn't changed Don. Closing her eyes did not shut out her thoughts. She felt almost bitter toward him, lying beside her. He could have had a good job, or a better one, if he hadn't been so easygoing. He could have had that job in high school if he had put up a fight for it. Why he could write, with all his background and common sense! He could make money at it if he would, instead of dillydallying along just for the fun of it, the big?the big fool. She ought to get a divorce. She could, too. But well, she loved him. He was so good to her and the children. Don had a tenderness and thoughtfulness that was rare in men. "Why didn't you let me do that, Eileen? You sit down and read, I'll swish the supper dishes. Come on, kiddies, let's do this for Mama." That was Don?always as kind and good-natured and calm as a ewe lamb. She swallowed a little resigned choke that stuck in her throat. She had always had hopes that he would some day wake up and become enthusiastically alive, that he would find a way out of all this living on bare necessities. A grade school teacher just couldn't make enough to keep a family in this day and age. She had always prayed that some day he would find the way to give their children more of the good things they deserved. But lying here in the night, her last dream bubble burst, she knew that things would never be different with Don. And she knew down in her heart that in spite of all she had said about telling Dr. Pribble a thing or two, he would do nothing?nothing. And they would be moving again. Eileen reached beneath the pillow for her kerchief.
EARLY next evening, Eileen glanced out the window to see if Jackie was keeping the baby bundled. Dr. Pribble was coming up the path, coming for April's rent that he had forgotten to ask about. When it had been a payment on the house, Eileen had been more than glad to have that much put away, but now?he couldn't have it. It would be one way to get a little for those hours of work and backache, for fixing up the place so he could get a cash deal. "Don, here comes Dr. Pribble. Now get ready, and don't you give him a penny or I'll?" He knocked twice, then Eileen opened the door. She did not smile a welcome but looked squarely and a little hard into his black eyes behind their bushy, black eyebrows. "Mr. Whiting, may I have the check for April's rent? It is a little past due, I believe." "Yes, it is," said Don, "but you see we are just a little surprised about your change of mind. We've spent quite a bit of money here, thinking the place would be ours?and?well, we wondered if you could allow us something for what we've done?" "I feel that I cannot. You did this of your own choice, Mr. Whiting." "But you get the benefit in increased value. We put in a lot of time and money on this place." "Nevertheless, I feel that I cannot allow you cash. I did not ask you to do it, Mr. Whiting. I wouldn't like to put the matter in the hands of a lawyer, you know." "Very well, Dr. Pribble, if you're sure that's the way you want it. You're a good business man and know what you can do." Don drew his check-book from his pocket and made out the check. Dr. Pribble glanced at Mrs. Whiting, and he could see bitter resentment rising within her firm little body like the quills of a porcupine. His overgrown adam's apple jumped a cog, and he bowed himself out with, "Thank you, Mr. Whiting. Perhaps I may be able to help you locate another place." Don worked steadily making letters on the back of his check-book, because he did not want to look into those darkening eyes and upset her further. "Oh, you!" She flung anger in his face, while tears of humiliation and indignation filled her eyes. "You aren't really going to let him get the best of you are you, Don? Won't you stop payment on that check? You aren't honestly??" "Guess we better, Eileen. We've got a long while to live in this old world with Dr. Pribble. We don't want to have trouble, do we? Maybe yet?" "Trouble, my foot! We have all the trouble. Let him have some for a change! I tell you I won't move again. He'll have to drag me out. Isn't there something you can do about it?" She flung the door wide and stepped out into the early evening. "Oh, come on, Don. It's getting late. I'll go with you to milk Susanna. We might as well decide here and now, once and for all, about this Pribble proposition. A lawyer!
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
Pooh!" She stomped ahead of him toward the pasture lying to the far side of the corral. Somehow, out in the clean, crisp April springtime, neither could think of the right words to say. The cow was milked. Don got up and climbed through the fence; Eileen turned and started along the path. Don set down the milk pail and picked up a handful of rocks. "We'll have to stand guard so that Susanna and not that other longhorn quadruped will receive the nourishment from this box of grain. The minute our backs are turned she'll have Susanna on the run. Junior hunted this pile of rocks for me." Then his wife began to laugh. It was an odd kind of laugh, but she kept it up, even as the aggressive, old, red cow poked her pious face through the row of new-leaved poplars and stood ready to advance, one round eye on the grain box and the other on the man with the rocks. "What's so funny?" But Eileen couldn't quit laughing until Don said, "Tell us about it, so we can all laugh." Then she turned on him. "I'll tell you! Our cow runs! Our dog runs! Junior runs from the neighbors' kids, and all you can do is run from Dr. Pribble! Oh, I'm so sick of living with a man without any backbone I could fly away. And I'm going to do it! You remember what the superintendent said when I quit school to marry you? Well, I can teach again. I'm not going to run with you much longer. I don't have to!" Her words snapped and crackled in the early April twilight. She whirled and marched wrathfully several yards ahead of him up the path, around the sheds and on to the house. He didn't call for her to stop.
IN all the three weeks which had passed since her speech at the pasture, Don had not asked forgiveness. He had hardly been home long enough. Always the children had been put to bed. Three times the past week he had been away until midnight and then without one word of explanation. She wouldn't ask. But oh, how her heart ached for two strong arms and Don's lighthearted teasing.
A fresh gust of wind which had come with the late April rains whipped against the windows of the sturdy, old house and banged an upstairs shutter as Eileen closed the door and watched from the window while Dr. Pribble and his prospective customer, who had come to take one more look, ducked into their raincoats. Trying to close his deal! She glanced up at the clock over the fireplace. 3:15. Well, right now was a good time to close any deal! "They will be moving in a week," she had heard him say. Moving in a week! Well she wasn't moving in a week, she was moving right now! She could move again. She had done it before! Determinedly, she marched up the steps to the children's rooms. She began folding undershirts and sox from Junior's chest of drawers and placed them too neatly into a large suitcase. She would go right home to Mother's and see Superintendent Passey the minute she got there. He would give her a job next winter; she was sure of that. She would have the children with her and... What if Don objected? Well, he couldn't have them. What if they cried for him? For one moment she wondered just how she would make out with the children alone, and without him. But he just couldn't understand?he never would, he never had in all those years together, which he had made so rich and happy. He never could understand how Eileen's pride was hurt to see her man take the easygoing way when she wanted him to stand up and fight for their destiny. The children would soon be coming from school; she would have to throw things together and dash back downstairs for hers and the baby's things, and they would leave on the 5:30 bus. The children didn't know yet, but, well, she wouldn't need to tell them now. There were just a few more weeks of school, then vacation. They would be glad to be going to visit Grandma, and... Don would come and find them gone. She felt the air heavy with gloom and disaster. Another burst of April rain, carried by wind, marched around the south corner of the house and banged the loose shutter. Because Eileen's heart was breaking and because her body, mind and soul all ached from long weariness, she sank to the floor and cried, her head resting on the open drawer of the chest. Eileen shivered. It was cold sitting up here on the floor. The dampness seemed to come right through the shingles on the high roof. She would have to get up and hurry, hurry.
"Eileen, oh, Eileen. Where are you? Eileen. Eileen!" Don's excited calling was coming nearer. She blew her nose vigorously on one of Junior's soiled shirts and stood up, stiffly. He bounded up the steps. "Eileen, guess what! Where are you?" He found her there, threw his arms around her, raincoat and all, and kissed her just as he used to. "I found the place at last, Eileen?over on the west side." Her heart, which had been fluttering rapidly up the scales, lost its hold and dropped heavily again to the lowest octave. "Moving to the west side," she sighed. Placing another kiss on the top of her dark head and folding her, this time underneath his raincoat, he continued, "It looked so good to me that I thought it might to the other fellow, too?the one who was going to buy this place. I found him in Dr. Pribble's office and coaxed him to take a look before he signed on Dr. Pribble's dotted line. He liked it. It is about the same price and has more space for his chicken apartments. We went back to tell Pribble, and right away the good Doctor began renewing his covenants with me. He counted the rent we've paid the last six months, including that April's rent, as down payment, and we drew up a contract that Solomon himself couldn't improve on." His eyes sweeping the room, he thought he comprehended the meaning of the empty drawers and the bulging suitcases. "You weren't really planning on us moving again were you, honey?" Eileen snuggled more closely against him. The April rain which came down and washed the windows clean was so welcome and restoring. "Listen, there's something else, too. I've got my book finished?you know, the one about School Teachers In Bondage that I've been working on over at school while you've been mad at me. You must arrange to get real mad at me often, honey. Will you? Huh?" She smiled and nodded at him through her tears, then pressed her cold face hard against the hollow of his shoulder. It was broad and warm. Yes, she would. She would get angry often. It was as inevitable as that her teakettle should boil over the hot fire. She was Eileen. And she knew that always her heart would be grateful for the calmness and peace and security that was Don.
GREATNESS
IF greatness finds its source in deep humility, And thinking thoughts that reach unto eternity, Then you and I beneath the weeping willow tree Perhaps were great. ?Mabel Jones.
Achievement Recognition
IN order to stimulate interest and activity in the Membership Drive, and to awaken Relief Society members to a keen appreciation of what membership in the organization means, the General Board last fall requested wards and stakes to write articles dealing with the following subjects:
1. Benefits derived in Relief Society by a new member. To be submitted by a new member. Title, "Treasures I Have Found."
2. Outstanding contribution by a new member to her organization. Not to be written by a new member. Title to be selected by writer.
3. Most effective showmanship work accomplished by a ward group.
4. Handicaps solved by an organization.
These articles were to be sifted in the stakes, and one article on each subject was to be submitted through the stakes to the General Office not later than January 31, 1940. From those submitted to the General Office, four were to be selected for publication in the Magazine.
The General Board expresses its appreciation for the splendid response of wards and stakes to this program. Many interesting accounts of membership activities have been received. The vision of Relief Society women with regard to the purposes and objectives of the Society as well as the great appreciation felt for membership in the organization is clearly revealed in the articles. We congratulate the wards and stakes upon their originality as well as upon the dignified manner in which they are conducting the Drive.
Because of the many excellent articles submitted, difficulty was experienced by the committee in determining which to select for publication. The following articles were selected not only in recognition of superior achievement but because of their value in stimulating others. The article on showmanship selected for publication in the Magazine, submitted by the Carbon Stake, will be held until a later issue.
Treasures I Have Found By DeEtte B. Stewart McKinley Ward, Wells Stake
FOR years I have been an admirer of the Relief Society and its accomplishments. I have regarded it as the most outstanding organization of our Church, but as I was ward organist, then later Sunday School organist, along with other activities, I thought I was too busy to become a member. As time went on, I felt the need of belonging to this organization and last year began attending the meetings regularly, and I found its treasures. Of these treasures, I value four most: The opportunity to serve, the association and friendship of the other members, the opportunity to gain knowledge, and the opportunity for self-development. In this article I wish to show, by relating my personal experiences as a new member, how I found these treasures and the benefits I derived from them.
I found myself enjoying the meetings immensely and learning a great deal about theology, literature, social service, nutrition, and many other things. After a short time, while attending a Theology and Testimony meeting, I did something I had been trying to do each Fast Sunday for ten years in the chapel of this same building?I bore my testimony. Although I have played the piano in public since I was a small child, I have been afflicted with a terrible fright if I attempted to say one word before an audience. I felt this handicap keenly. Bearing my testimony in Relief Society seemed to give me courage to stand in Fast meeting a little later and thank my Heavenly Father for His many blessings to me. A short time after this, a member of our ward Relief Society presidency asked me if I would give a talk on tithing the following Tuesday. The very thought of it made me ill, but I realized the Relief Society was giving me a chance to overcome this timidity; surely with the help of the Lord I could do it. With a trembling voice, I gave that little talk and was surprised to find how much easier it became each time I attempted to express myself before the group. As I listened to class leaders give their lessons so beautifully last winter, I hoped some day to be able to do the same but didn't dream the opportunity would be mine so soon. At the beginning of this last season a theology teacher was needed, and I was asked to fill this position. I told the officers I felt so incapable, that all the other class leaders were so experienced and were such wonderful teachers. Our ward president said, "They weren't always so experienced, and they weren't always such wonderful teachers. They, too, had a first time." Could there be more encouraging words than those!
In order that I might be able to overcome the affliction of timidity and that I might be inspired to gather the right material and present it to the class as He would have me do, I offered prayers to my Heavenly Father, both at home and at the Temple. Then came hours and hours of study. I shall never forget that first lesson I attempted to present. As I looked over that audience and felt the sweet spirit there, I wondered where else one could find a group of women such as that. They were not there to criticise but were with me, helping me; as I looked at their sweet faces I felt that I loved each and every one of them for what they were doing for me. The struggle was won, and that terrible fright was gone. I do not know that any one benefits by my classes, although I earnestly pray that they do, but this I do know, that I am greatly benefited and have been paid a hundred fold for all my time and effort.
Not long ago as I sat one afternoon with my books?two books on the Life and Works of St. Paul, the Bible, Teachings of Joseph Smith, Doctrine and Covenants, dictionary, encyclopedia, Illustrated World History, and two maps of Europe, an ancient one and one of today?some friends called. Answering their joking remarks, I said laughingly, "Yes, I am going to school, and the Relief Society is my teacher. The Relief Society seems to have a way of knowing just what every one needs and then helping them; they must have known I needed a theological education."
On another occasion, as our two little boys knelt to say their evening prayer, one of them said, "Please help us to be good boys and not make too much noise while Mama studies her Relief Society."
As I conclude this article, I am reminded that writing it is still another of the many opportunities for self-development that the Relief Society offers. I thank my Father in Heaven for this wonderful organization and humbly pray that many others might become new members and find?
THE TREASURES I HAVE FOUND.
Pearls Of Great Price By Lena Lee Menan Ward, Rigby Stake
"I NOW turn the key... In the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time."?Joseph Smith.
Almost one hundred years have passed since these significant words were uttered by the voice of a prophet to a mere handful of women. Today, thousands are reaching out eager hands to grasp the key, open the door and enter into the blest sanctuary, that they may enjoy the benefits and privileges of that great organization?the Relief Society.
There are many women whose names have never been known outside of their own narrow circle, and yet they have left "pearls of great price" as a heritage to those among whom they have labored. It is of such a woman I wish to write:
As she stood irresolute at the threshold of the Relief Society room, she looked friendless and alone. The president, seeing that she was a stranger, spoke to her kindly and made her welcome. In halting, broken English, she thanked the president and made herself known. She was the bride, she said, of a missionary who had returned only six months previously from a mission in Germany. Now she had come all that distance alone to be with the Saints and to marry the man she loved. They had met and fallen in love on the sun porch of a Berlin hospital, where each was recuperating from a long illness. True to his trust as a missionary, he did not then speak of his love, but just as soon as he was at home in America he had written telling her of his love and asking her to be his wife. Leaving her loved ones behind, she had come to a strange land to the man of her choice. Now, seeking admittance into the Relief Society circle, she was welcomed warmly, and each one did her best to make her feel at home and among friends.
It was not long, however, before we who had been so eager to give to the little bride found to our surprise that we were receiving from her. The chorister of the organization had moved away, and no one had been found to take her place. As a result the singing was very poor. After several weeks, it became apparent to the president that the singing had improved very much, due largely to the rich contralto voice of the little foreign bride. The next time a musical program was given she was asked to sing, and her beautiful rendition of one of our own hymns brought tears to every eye. Soon she was chosen as chorister, and almost immediately the singing improved; new life and fervor now characterized that portion of the program which such a short time before had seemed so lifeless. She organized and directed a chorus which rendered splendid service and proved a wonderful help.
Her contribution was not alone in the field of music, however, for her knowledge of the Bible and other Church works helped to enrich and vitalize many phases of the work. Her humble but vital testimony was her most outstanding contribution; no one seeing or hearing her could help being impressed with her sincerity and truthfulness. Her face would light up and her eyes fill with tears as she spoke of the great blessings of the Gospel. She felt that the sacrifice she had made in leaving home, kindred and friends was of little consequence compared to the joy of being among God's chosen people. Spirituality seemed to emanate from her as perfume from the rose. When with her, it was impossible to think evil or sordid thoughts; rather, one was uplifted to nobler and loftier heights. As we considered the sacrifice she had made and the courage she had manifested, we were inspired to strive more earnestly for good and to serve our fellow men more devotedly.
Truly, in her behalf the prophetic words of Joseph Smith were fulfilled, for "intelligence and knowledge" did flow down to her. In one short year she had learned to read, write, and speak the English language, even better than some who had known no other tongue. Through inspiration and in answer to prayer, she was chosen to be a counselor to the president who had welcomed her into the Society, and thus her field of influence was enlarged and her greater gifts discovered. She was ever alert to conditions around her which might be improved, and assumed her responsibility in their improvement.
In summing up the "pearls of great price" this one new member has given us, I find we are indebted to her for greater spirituality and a stronger testimony of the Gospel. Among her other contributions are: the improvement and enrichment of our music; an increased knowledge and better understanding of the scriptures; a greater desire to be of service to our fellow men; a greater love for each other and our Relief Society work as a whole. Through her courage and understanding, we have found greater faith in overcoming the problems of life. Through her, we have a greater appreciation of the organization provided for Latter-day Saint women through the inspiration of their Prophet. Through this organization I met this new member, through whom my life has been blessed and enriched beyond measure. The "pearls of great price" she has left us are shining jewels whose luster will never grow dim.
Building Peace and Happiness Over A Foundation of Handicaps By Rose Duke Third Ward, Carbon Stake
"HANDICAPS!" you say. Well now, have you ever tried to hold a meeting with seventy-five ladies in a room next door to a garage? Just as we become so deeply interested in the literary lesson that we are almost Joan of Arc ourselves?Bang! Bump! Go the hammers to bring us back to a normal world again.
Or, perhaps, the theology leader is trying to teach the theme, "Love Thy Neighbor As Thyself," when?Rat-tat-tat! Bing! Biff! And for a few minutes at least we can scarcely feel that neighborly love.
Of course, on Work and Business days we are doing so much buzzing ourselves, with quilting or making tea towels and stuffed animals for bazaars, that we seldom hear the outside noises.
The heating facilities are not of the best either. We are still at the old-fashioned heater stage. You'll remember?roasted faces and frozen backs. Actually, we don't even roast our faces, because there is not room enough for all to sit that close to the stove. Most of us go to meeting without realizing that some one should get there early enough to build a fire to take the chill off the room. No fuel is provided by the Church. So far, some generous officer has brought the coal and kindling.
Then there is the music. Did you ever try leading a group of middle-aged singers with a high-pitched organ for accompaniment? We do manage to squeak out the high notes, but only an opera star could do them justice. Oh, yes, we have a piano. However, it is in the last stages of rebellion and, having worn out the player, half the time the tune vanishes somewhere in the air. Why don't we buy a new one? With what, please tell! After all, we're just a new ward. Do you know what that means? It means we have to have dish towels, glasses, dishes, silverware, tablecloths, and what not. We must depend on donations for these things. Each member is asked to bring one glass and dish towel, so the cupboard is slowly but surely starting to fill.
Then there are the individual difficulties that each ward member must overcome in order to attend meetings. One must be brought in a wheel-chair. A few live on outlying farms, and this means they must have some means of transportation. Any one who has lived on a farm knows the amount of work there is to do. Just one afternoon away means added rushing and bustling either before or after to catch up. Several women have large families of young children that must be left home either alone, in some neighbor's care, or with hired help. Hiring help very often runs into money, adding another difficulty, as many cannot afford this.
Can any one deny that we have many handicaps? But, do they stop us? No, indeed! Our group is growing, and what a group it is! Every one seems so willing to try whatever is asked of her. ENTHUSIASM is the watchword on every side, "for we have found peace, which is a happiness more full of meaning than we have ever known before, a happiness as deep as tears..."
What The Gospel Means To Me By Elsie Standring Collier (From her book Treasures of Truth)
THE Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to me means a "bank that never fails". I am guaranteed health, wealth, and happiness for my dividends. Whatever I put into this bank will always be mine; I alone can cause it to depreciate.
I put in habits of good health, such as moderate exercise, abstinence from tea, coffee, tobacco and harmful foods, a cheerful outlook on life, and restful sleep. I take out vitality, beauty and a fit receptacle for my spirit.
I put in hours of study of good books, participation in Church activities, and constructive use of my leisure time. I take out respect of my fellow men, the development of my talents, the ability to impart truth and help others enrich their lives, and knowledge which I can eternally build upon.
I put in payment of tithing, fast offerings and donations. I take out thrift habits, appreciation for what I have, the joy of knowing that I am helping some one in need, and the satisfaction that I am helping to bear my share of the expense for places to worship and play in.
I put in prayer, faith, and repentance. I take out the right to be administered to by the healing power of the Priesthood, the opportunity to express my thankfulness, and courage to face the problems of life.
I put in time seeking genealogy and doing temple work. I take out the joy of knowing that I will have kinship with those I love in the next world, and that I have been the means of opening the way for their redemption.
Last, I put in kind words, good deeds, enthusiasm and thoughtfulness. I take out friendship and the greatest thing in the world?love.
Oliver Cowdery's Courtship By E. Cecil McGavin
IN the autumn of 1828, Oliver Cowdery was employed as a school teacher in the small school which accommodated the children from Fayette and Waterloo in western New York. A few other families scattered beyond those villages sent their children to the school where Oliver was the teacher. Many teachers in that day complained about the practice of "boarding round" with the families whose children they taught, but if this schoolmaster had any objection to the custom it was because he could not stay with the family of Peter Whitmer all of the time.
David Whitmer and Oliver were about the same age and soon became devoted friends. Among the many things they had in common was a deep interest in Joseph Smith's claim to a new revelation. Yet one of the strongest attractions in the Whitmer Home was David's sister, Elizabeth Ann.
There were eight children in the Whitmer family, several of whom attended Oliver's school. Elizabeth Ann, though nine years younger than her schoolmaster, soon was conscious of the fact that there was something about the teacher's kind face and gentle manner that won her fondest admiration. She looked forward to the time when he would spend a week at their home and, perhaps, even wished they had a larger family so his visits would be longer as he "boarded round" in the community.
Very little has been told of the devotion of the couple during the season that the schoolmaster taught in the little schoolhouse at Fayette, yet when Oliver left the state the following spring this was the home to which his wandering thoughts turned in moments of despair.
As soon as the school year was over, Oliver went to Harmony, Pennsylvania, in order to make a first-hand investigation of Joseph Smith's mission. He was positively convinced that the mission was divine and gladly became the Prophet's scribe. A wave of persecution endangered the plates. The Prophet and his scribe were denied the peace and tranquillity necessary for such a sacred assignment, so they began to think of other places they might go where they would be unmolested. Oliver naturally thought of the Whitmer family in Fayette. The Prophet had become acquainted with Peter Whitmer, and so when David Whitmer came to Harmony bringing with him a two-horse wagon for the purpose of having Joseph and Oliver accompany him to his father's place and there remain until the work of translation was finished, the invitation was gladly accepted.
A large, pleasant room upstairs, shaded by tall locust trees, was given to them as a "translation room". Day after day in this room the tedious task of translation continued. So anxious were they to finish the labor before persecution began that they spent no time working in the fields. Their time was dedicated to this sacred labor. When Oliver's hand was numbed from continuous writing, one of the Whitmer boys or Joseph's wife relieved him while he rested.
MEMBERS of that family have told that when Oliver left the upper room he usually found Elizabeth Ann waiting for him in the shadows of the locust trees. Many times she had a drink of cold water for him and a sandwich ready to revive him. No one has told us what their thoughts and conversation were, but Oliver realized by that time that his love for Elizabeth Ann was second only to his love for the sacred labor to which he had been called by revelation.
After the translation was finished, Joseph returned to Harmony, while Oliver continued to reside at the Whitmer home. In Joseph's absence he conducted meetings in the schoolhouse and in the large house where the Whitmer family lived. In all of these meetings Elizabeth Ann was an interested spectator. It is likely due to Oliver's friendship for this family and the loyal friends he and Joseph had in that family that the Whitmer home was chosen as the place where the Church would be organized. The new society was organized on Tuesday, April 6, 1830. The following Sunday, Oliver preached the first public discourse since its inception. This meeting was also held in the Whitmer home. It must have been a source of satisfaction to Oliver to have the privilege of baptizing several people at the close of the meeting. Among the number was the devoted Elizabeth Ann.
The months that followed were months of anxiety and persecution. The Whitmers later joined the caravans of converts who were migrating to Missouri. The romance which began in New York ripened in full fruition in Missouri. They were married in Kaw township, Jackson county, Missouri, December 18, 1832?the first marriage within the Church in Missouri. The bride was only seventeen years old at the time, while Oliver was twenty-six. This union proved a happy one, though tragedy and sorrow loomed on the horizon. Five girls and one boy were born to this union, all of whom died in early childhood except Mary Louise who lived to be fifty-seven years old. She married Dr. Charles Johnson, but left no children.
Oliver Cowdery, after returning to the Church, expressed a desire to go to Utah and thence to England as a missionary, but before doing so he visited the Whitmers in Missouri. He caught a severe cold during this journey and died March 3, 1850. His widow was only thirty-five years old at the time of his death, yet she never married again. Her devotion to Oliver was so great that no one else could take his place. Though he was spoken of in official circles as the "second Elder" in the Church, he was always first in her thoughts and memories. She lived to be seventy-seven years old, forty-two of which she spent as a widow. She passed away January 7, 1892, and her daughter died two days later. And thus was Oliver left without posterity.
ETERNAL SPRING
Help me to change as the seasons do, Oh, God, with grace and poise. Spring has come with life anew Enriched by hopes and joys.
Summer is here. Help me to give And labor for all whom I can aid, That when the frosts of autumn come Life's pattern will be made.
Grant that its colors will be varied, Glowing with warming shades, As the mantle on the mountain When summer sunlight fades.
Then when the snows of winter fall With white upon my brow, Oh, God, the faith within my soul Tells me I'll see spring again As surely as the planets roll. ?Lorine Lee
Some Literary Friends By Florence Ivins Hyde
ONE of the fondest recollections of my childhood is of my father reading to his children while we sat on our stools and cushions before the open fire. We were in a foreign land where we had to make new friends, where we had to be taught to remember our native land and to be inspired to want to return, some day, to the country of our birth. So stories were read to us, often with these things in mind. My patriotism was born and nurtured there. At times, his stories were for no other purpose, however, than for the mere pleasure they brought us by making for us new friends?friends of the characters in the stories, friends of animals and birds, and friends of the authors themselves.
The reading habit not only develops the appreciation for books, but it makes for us new friends?friends who know how to say in the right way the things that are in our hearts; friends who will let us agree or disagree with them with no break in the friendship. In every home there ought to be book friends, friends that we can turn to when we need to be buoyed up.
Statistics indicate that in the last fifty years the amount of reading material has increased far more than has the population of our country. This must mean only one thing?that we are becoming a nation of readers. Provided our literature is of the right sort, and is read intelligently, this fact may have a profoundly beneficial effect upon the social life of America. But from a study made a few years ago, it was learned that young people are reading more newspapers and magazines than books. This is a thing to be regretted, for the most vital things in life are preserved in books. People who have a broad interest in books as a rule have a broad interest in life. Great readers live in the world. People without reading habits live within the four corners of their communities.
With the millions of books that have been published, what to choose to read becomes a real problem. Libraries, schools and reviewers try to classify books so that we may choose wisely. We are justified, of course, in liking one thing and disliking another, for a thing that touches the experience of one may be foreign to another. Unless the story, essay or treatise is within our experience, it has no interest for us. But it is worth while to make an effort to appreciate the things that are rated as good, for literary taste has to be cultivated just as does a taste for music or art.
Professor William Matthew has said: "It is not the number of books which a person reads that makes him intelligent and well informed, but the number of well chosen ones that he has mastered so that every valuable thought in them is a familiar friend."
John Macy says that to be well read it is not necessary to have labored through all the classics, because if we spend our time over them we will undoubtedly miss many books which should be our companions but which are not great. It is of these little-known companions that we wish to speak in this series of articles.
One of the ends of reading is to develop individuality. Books largely make us what we are. Our spiritual life is fed by them. The Swedish composer, Hugo Alfven, says: "Reading Selma Lagerlof is like sitting in the dusk of a Spanish cathedral. Afterward, one does not know whether what he has seen is dream or reality, but certainly he has been on holy ground." It is unquestionably good if what we read does this for us.
FOR a program of fireside reading for all the family, let us begin with something short, leading up to things of greater length and finally to books which discuss personality, religion, philosophy or history. Reading aloud and discussing what is read does something for a family that nothing else can do. A program of family reading could well be begun by reading the old fables. In childhood, Aesop to us was merely a teller of amusing tales, but as we reach maturity his fables become filled with philosophy.
Nothing will give us more happiness in life than a love of poetry. Beauty, whether it be found in music, in art, or in literature, brings joy. Some of the most beautiful art is found in poetry. Literature began as poetry. We seem to be inherently poetical. We respond to it and remember it more easily than prose. In these days of ultra-sophistication and realism, it is helpful to repeat the rhythmic lines of our favorite poems. I think of the quotation with which King George VI of England ended his Christmas message to his people:
"I said to a man who stood at the gate of the year, 'Give me a light that I may tread softly into the unknown,' And he replied: 'Go out into the darkness And put your hand into the hand of God. That shall be to you better than a light, And safer than a known way.'"
Short stories with a wholesome life philosophy might well be considered for the fireside hour. We are told that the churches are losing young people because they have not been able to imbue them with ideals that will tide them over adolescent years. Adolescent boys and girls like to talk over the questions of right and wrong, and to discuss the philosophy of life. Preaching does not appeal to them, but I observe that they are not averse to having pointed out to them the truths behind a story. For example: When we tell the valuable story of General Pershing at the tomb of Lafayette, I believe that rather than to conclude with, "Lafayette, we are here," it is good teaching to point out the fact that this story should mean to every one of us a plea to stand by in time of crisis.
The following story by Henry Ward Beecher will not be spoiled by pointing out its philosophy:
THE ANXIOUS LEAF
"Once upon a time a little leaf was heard to sigh and cry, as leaves often do when the wind is about, and the twig said, 'What is the matter, little leaf?' And the little leaf said, 'The wind just told me that one day it would pull me off and throw me to die on the ground!'
"The twig told it to the branch upon which it grew, and the branch told it to the tree. And when the tree heard it, it rustled all over, and sent back word to the leaf: 'Do not be afraid; hold on tightly, and you shall not go till you want to.'
"So the leaf stopped sighing and went on nestling and singing. Every time the tree shook itself and stirred up all the leaves, the branches shook themselves and the little twig shook itself, and the little leaf danced up and down merrily, as if nothing could ever pull it off. So it grew all summer long till October.
"When the bright days of autumn came, the little leaf saw all the other leaves around it becoming very beautiful. Some were yellow, some were scarlet, and some were striped with both colors. Then it asked the tree what it all meant; and the tree said, 'All the leaves are getting ready to fly away, and they are putting on these beautiful colors because of joy.'
"Then the little leaf began to want to go, and grew very beautiful in thinking of it; and when it was very gay in color, it saw that the branches of the tree had no color at all in them. So the leaf said; 'Oh," branches, why are you lead color and we golden?' "And the branches said, "We must keep on our work clothes, for our life is not done; but your clothes are for holiday, for your tasks are over." "Just then a little puff of wind came, and the leaf let go without thinking. The wind took it up, and whirled it over and over, and tossed it like a spark of fire in the air, and then it fell gently down under the edge of the fence among hundreds of other leaves. It fell into a dream and never waked up to tell what it dreamed about." READ The Anxious Leaf many times merely as a beautiful nature story before I discovered it was Mr. Beecher's philosophy of life and death: The tree said to the little leaf, "Do not be afraid. Hold on tightly and you shall not go till you want to." So the little leaf went through the summer singing. But in the autumn when all the other leaves were getting ready to fly away, then the little leaf began to want to go. With Erasmus, a little before we go to sleep let us read something that is exquisite and worth remembering and contemplate upon it till we fall asleep. Happy Birthday By Ramona W. Cannon LULA GREENE RICHARDS (Copy of a life-size oil portrait made by her son, Lee Greene Richards.) SIXTY-EIGHT years ago Louisa L. (Lula) Greene received a letter which caused her both joy and perturbation. Eliza R. Snow and other leading sisters wanted Mormon women to have a periodical; they could represent themselves "better than to be misrepresented by others". Incredible as it seemed to Lula, they had invited her to come from Smithfield to Salt Lake City to be the first editor of the proposed sheet. Should she, a girl of twenty-two, accept such a responsibility? Was her education adequate?a few opportunities to attend village schools, one brief term at Tripp's and Rager's in Salt Lake, and one: at the University of Deseret, under Dr. John R. Park? Suddenly in her heart was born a new appreciation of educa- HAPPY BIRTHDAY tional riches bestowed upon her by two people, her father and Eliza R. Snow. The former, a natural and an excellent teacher, had been her actual instructor much of the time. How far his enlightenment had extended beyond the boundaries of an ordinary schoolroom! And Sister Snow had passed on to Lula, through correspondence, the graces of her own mind and soul. The young girl had been writing verse and prose since childhood, contributing to The Juvenile Instructor, The Salt Lake Herald and a manuscript sheet, The Smithfield Sunday School Gazette. Sister Snow had encouraged and instructed her, and was now offering her this wonderful opportunity. At length, President Brigham Young called her to accept this work "as a mission and set her apart and blessed her. She felt truly dependent upon God for success. A year later, President Young united Lula and Levi W. Richards in marriage and blessed the new wife for a greater mission, that of rearing a family. For five years her wise: and gentle influence was felt among the women of Zion, through The Woman's Exponent, the predecessor of The Relief Society Magazine; then she found her strength unequal to both public and domestic demands and gave up the literary work she so much loved. 249 The marriage of Brother and Sister Richards was a happy one. Both possessed refinement and intellectual and religious interests, besides their common love of children. Three daughters died in infancy; four sons grew to manhood and "married well", says "Aunt Lula". Willard died, leaving a large family, but the other three sons still survive: Lee Greene, the artist; Evan G., a dentist; Heber G., a professor of English in the University of Utah. All would be a credit to any family. In Sister Richards' early years, she served as an aide to the Mutual, Primary, and Relief Society presidencies, representing these organizations in many parts of Zion. In later life, she spent forty years working in the Temple. As time permitted, she continued her literary efforts, publishing articles, stories and poems in our magazines, and also a volume of verse called Branches That Run Over the Wall. Lula Greene Richards' life has been like a_ threebranched candlestick, her religious, her family, and her literary activities all stemming from the same devoted heart, and a bright light burning constantly on the altar of each. On April eighth, "Aunt Lula" Richards will be ninety-one years old. The many thousands who know and love and honor her wish her, from the depths of their hearts, a happy birthday! A Handicapped Boy By Margaret Johnson. Jimmy tried to lift the golf club out of the bag and hand it to Mr. Sumners, but somehow it slipped and fell to the ground. Mr. Sumners yelled at Jimmie and hastily examined the club for injury. "Tm sorry, sir," Jimmie said, biting his lip to make it stop trembling. "It's my hand." "You might have ruined it," Mr. Sumners sputtered indignantly. He paused; then, "What hand?" he demanded suddenly.. "Mine, sir," Jimmie said patiently. "It's?it's handicapped." That was what Mother had always said. "Every one," Mother said, "has a handicap. Perhaps it's a moral handicap, a tendency to steal or lie or swear. It may be a mental handicap, an inability to think and reason quickly and accurately. And again, it may be a physical handicap like yours. You may never be able to use your hand, Jimmie, so you must make the best of it. Don't ever let your handicap be your master. A handicap may really be an advantage, if it is thought of and managed properly. You probably can't understand that now, Jimmie-boy, but it's so." But Jimmie was sure that he did understand. That was why he had applied for a job as a caddy just like an ordinary boy might have done. Jimmie wasn't going to let his handicap master him and make him think he couldn't do things. "What's the matter with your hand?" Mr. Sumners asked. "I can't use it," Jimmie explained. Simply. "Well, now," Mr. Sumners said, with unexpected sympathy, "that's too bad, sonny." "Oh, no, sir," Jimmie objected hastily. "It's my handicap, you know, and I'm going to master it, and then I'll," Jimmie paused, a trifle abashed, "I'll be the better for it, sir," he finished. Jimmie knew Mother would have been proud of that answer. It showed he understood. But then, when a feller has a thing explained to him a lot of times, he can't help but realize what it means. Mr. Sumners looked surprised. "Well, now, that's a fine philosophy," he commented. "How old are you, sonny?" "Ten, sit,' Jimmie said. Mr. Sumners didn't say anything more; but several times during the game Jimmie caught Mr. Sumners eyeing him curiously, and once he heard him mutter something about an "intelligent boy". _ Mr. Sumners always had Jimmie caddy for him after that. Sometimes, however, he didn't play golf at all, but just asked Jimmie 'questions about his home life and other things. Jimmie told Mother about Mr. Sumners, and she was pleased. "Always make every one your friend, Jimmie," she said. "Life will be much easier and happier then." Mr. Sumners liked to ask Jimmie questions about current events and great people, and Jimmie's answers always seemed to please him. Once he asked Jimmie whether HANDICAPPED BOY he liked the sun or the moon the best. Jimmie said that the moon was very important because it was so dark at night. Mr. Sumners laughed and laughed for a long time. When he finished laughing, he patted Jimmie on the head and looked very serious and thoughtful fora minute. "You must take me to see your mother soon," he said, slowly and gravely. When Jimmie told his mother about that, she hugged him suddenly and looked frightened. HE next day, Mr. Sumners did come and see Mother. They talked for a long time. Once, Jimmie heard Mr. Sumners say, "Every boy needs a father. You'll have to admit that." Another time, he said something about the bad neighborhood. "Poverty-stricken people, cramped quarters! ? No boy can be reared properly in such an environment." Jimmie felt indignant, and Mother spoke up quickly. "Of course," she said, "some of the homes in this section are overcrowded and dirty; but we've always managed to keep ours neat and clean, and Jimmie hasn't picked up any of the bad habits of his associates." But Mr. Sumners kept on talking. He pointed about the room and out of the window. His voice kept getting loud and then soft. Jimmie's heart began beating very fast. Mother looked so?Surely, she wouldn't for a moment consider letting Mr. Sumners take Jimmy away! After Mr. Sumners left, Mother sat in the big chair and put her arms 2351 around Jimmy. She looked very pale and tired. "Jimmie," she said. Her voice didn't tremble now, but was smooth like glass. "We must weigh things, and then always accept the one that's best, mustn't we?", And Jimmie said, "Yes." "Handicaps," Mother said, "are very fine, but when we can eliminate some of them, we must. You have a lot of handicaps, Jimmie." "I have my hand," Jimmie said. "Yes," Mother said, "and you'll probably always have that, but you have a lot of other handicaps, Jimmie. Money is a nice thing to have, if it's used properly; we have very little of it." Mother went on and mentioned all the things Mr. Sumners had said yesterday and added a few more about college and advantages. "And, Jimmie," she ended, in a voice so soft and low that Jimmie could scarcely hear, "I want you to go with Mr. Sumners. You can see for yourself that it is best.. He can give you the chance and home you deserve." Go with Mr. Sumners! Jimmie had implicit faith in Mother. Why, Mother was everything, and knew everything, but? "Mother!" Jimmie cried. "Leave you?" "We must be strong, Jimmie," Mother said, from between white lips, "because we know it's for the best." A thousand pictures filled Jimmie's. Mind: Mother laughing, Mother doing the dishes, Mother in the blue-checked apron kneading bread, Mother sweeping the floor, Mother coming down the sidewalk 252 to meet him on his way home from school, Mother singing with the choir.... Why, Mother had it all wrong! It was all mixed up somehow. Jimmie in his earnestness gave a little gasp. "If I went with Mr. Sumners, Mother," Jimmie said, frowning in his struggle for words, "would it take away all my handicaps except my hand?" "Just about, and you wouldn't have to caddy any more." "Not caddy any more!" It was a cry of alarm. "Why, Mother, it would be an awfully big handicap if I didn't caddy any more. I'd forget how to fight and be strong. I'd be weak, because?because Mr. Sumners would keep me from trying to help myself." Mother caught her breath, half rose from the chair, and sat down again. "Lots of times on the course," Jimmie continued, steadily ? he knew what he wanted to say, now? "Mr. Sumners tries to take the bag away from me, so that I won't have to carry it. Lately, in spite of all I say, I can't stop him from carrying it, because he doesn't understand about handicaps and overcoming them like you do, Mother." Mother still said nothing. She just sat there with a strained expression on her face. "I like him, Mother," Jimmie said, "but he'd never let me do anything at all, and I couldn't stand that. He?I heard him say something the other day about, 'He'll never have to doa thing', and I know he meant me." Jimmie was only ten, and his eyes filled with tears. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 "Why, Mother," he said earnestly, "we've always planned how hard we'd work together so that I could go to college, and I know we could do it. You've always said I'd enjoy college more if I worked for it, and Mr. Sumners wouldn't let me." Mother looked for a moment as if she were going to cry, but Jimmie couldn't stop talking. Something big inside of him made him go on. "Mr. Sumners would be an awfully big handicap, Mother. I like handicaps when you're here explaining things and helping me, but Mr. Sumners doesn't understand, and he's so big and everything, I'm afraid I couldn't overcome him." Jimmie started to cry in earnest, and Mother held him close. "Why, Jimmie," she said. You do understand. You understand better than I do." "I?I'll go if you want me to, Mother," Jimmie sobbed. "How could I have been so blind," Mother said in a surprised tone, and she hugged Jimmie so hard it hurt. "What was I trying to do to my boy?" It took a moment for Jimmie to realize that he was going to stay with Mother. Then, when he understood, he couldn't say a word. He just wiped his eyes and tried to stop crying, because Mother had once said that men never cried; but he was so happy it was difficult. He looked up into Mother's face. It looked all joyful and, well, glorious. Suddenly, Jimmie felt frightened at the love he saw there. It was funny that Mother hadn't mentioned one thing, but Jimmie hadn't forgotten. He knew that not having Mother would have been the biggest handicap of all. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon APRIL?Life is sweet, and hope rides high When through soft rain and sunlight There's a rainbow in the sky. PRINCESS MARIA GABRIELLA, third child of Crown Prince Umberto of Italy, when one day old was christened with six names with a promise of two more later?one for a patron saint, three for her mother's Belgian relatives, and the others for members of the ruling house of Savoy. ELEANOR PATTERSON, owner and publisher of Washington's "Times Herald" has a staff principally of women reporters, columnists and critics. DAPHNE du MAURIER, author of "Rebecca," is working under difficulties on her next novel, the theme of which is peace, because of. The chaotic condition of the world. Miss du Maurier, niece of the great dramatist and daughter of the famous actor Sir Gerald du Maurier, is the wife of a British soldier, F. A. M. Browning. VERA BRITTAIN'S new book, "Testament of Friendship," is a memoir of her friend Winifred Holtby, the brilliant novelist for whom literary England mourns. CLARA G. SIDWELL, of Utah, has written a book titled "Life Shrouded in Mystery", developing her theme along family lines and history. KATHARINE BUSH, popular novelist, has published her biography in magazine serial. It is snappy like her books. MME. CHANDON and Mme. Drhilon were awarded prizes by the French Academy of Sciences for research work. KATHLEEN BURKE HALE, known as "Angel of France" in World War days, and Anne Morgan, president of "American Friends of France", have both gone to Europe to again give service and means. These two American women will find changes in the status of women in the European countries, with the Councils disorganized, women of all classes enlisted and now engaged in different arms of service. "TRANQUILLA JORDAN, 94, Susanah E. Dunn, 92, Mary M. Chadwick, go, Esther J. Flynn, go, all Utah pioneers and women of remarkable experience, were feted and given gifts and honors on their recent birthdays. Such longevity speaks well for Utah and the pioneer life. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - - - President MARCIA K. HOWELLS -~ - - - - - - - - First Counselor x - - - - - - - _ Second Counselor VERA W. POHLMAN - - - - - - General Secretary-Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adanis Anna S. Barlow Marianne C. Sharp Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Ethel B. Andrew Gertrude R. Garff Leona B. Fetzer. Edith S. Elliott Editor - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman GO?EDITORIAL?O Beautification THE coming of spring, with all nature taking on new life, awakens in everyone a desire to bestir himself that his surroundings may be made more livable and attractive. He would remove the smoke, dirt and debris of winter and brighten, improve and plant. This year special impetus is given to such activities because of the vigor with which both state and Church are conducting improvement and beautification campaigns. Utah is planning a gigantic state-wide celebration in 1947, the centennial of the arrival of the first permanent settlers in this region. It is anticipated that thousands of tourists will visit our state. Utah is naturally one of nature's wonderlands. Its mountains, its lakes, its canyons, and its great national parks rival those to be found any place in the world, But in order that our highways, our homes, and our cities will be equally attractive, and reflect a refined and cultured people, the Utah Centennial Beautification Committee is enthusiastically laying the groundwork for an extensive beautification program. Some time ago the Church launched a beautification program as part of the Church Welfare Plan, adopting as a slogan, "Our Churches and Homes Shall Be Beautiful". The Church committee has now proffered its services to the state organization and is working in close cooperation with it in promoting the centennial beautification drive. The doctrine of beautification is not new to Latter-day Saints. Our pioneer ancestors set out trees, planted gardens, planned parks and taught the importance of beautifying home surroundings. They made "the desert blossom as the rose". Civic pride is a part of our heritage. It is but natural that we should want to build on that heritage in a worthy manner. The response to suggestions of the Church committee to improve, beautify, and landscape the churches has
EDITORIAL
been very favorable. But are we not going faster forward with our churches than with our homes? A community can be no more beautiful than its homes and their surroundings. Neat home grounds with trees, flowers, shrubs, lawns, not only make beautiful cities but have an uplifting effect upon the members of the household. It is important to create and stimulate a sense of beauty and refinement in people. In no way can this be more easily done than by bringing people into contact with beauty in and about their homes. The ancient Greeks used to associate the good with the beautiful. Beautiful home surroundings help to make better people. A wholesome pride in home is essential to successful family life. One cannot be proud of a home that is untidy, run down, neglected and dilapidated. Often we become so accustomed to our surroundings that we fail to realize that our houses are crying for paint, that our fences and gates are hanging, that our paths are needlessly muddy or that our ditch banks are overgrown with weeds; we fail to notice the barrenness due to lack of growing things. Not so the visitor to our home or the stranger driving through our town. We are too often inclined to justify our neglect on the premise that we cannot afford to fix up. An interesting report made by Dr. A. L. Stark of the Utah Agricultural College revealed that in checking a large number of places it was found that in most instances money was not necessary to effect major improvements. Labor was the principle limiting factor. Then, too, it is a well-known fact that there is financial value in properly caring for homes. It is frugal and judicious to use a little money to keep things in repair and well renovated. The joy of living is half of life itself. Great joy may be found in life by cherishing beauty?beauty in our open places, beauty along our highways, beauty about our dwellings, beauty in our cities. A little effort on the part of every one should create by 1947 a state of which we may well be proud.
Primary Reorganization
THE completion of the reorganization of the Primary General Board has recently been announced. Pursuant with a new policy announced by the First Presidency of making frequent changes in the leadership of the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. May Green Hinckley was appointed to succeed Miss May Anderson as general superintendent of the Primary Association, effective January 1, 1940. Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells and Mrs. Janet Murdoch Thompson have been appointed first and second assistants respectively to Mrs. Hinckley, succeeding Mrs. Isabelle S. Ross and Mrs. Edith H. Lambert. Miss Beth Paxman has been appointed general secretary-treasurer to succeed Miss Mary Jack. Fifteen members of the Primary Association's former general board, each having served less than ten years, are included in the new board, and three new members have been added?Mrs. Fern Chipman Eyring, Mrs. Olga C. Brown and Miss Beth Paxman. All members of the new general superintendency have been active in practically all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and each has made splendid and unique contributions. Mrs. Hinckley is credited with instituting the Gleaner Girl program during her incumbency as president of the Granite Stake Y. W. M. I. A. This program was later adopted by the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board as a Church-wide movement. The Relief Society is indebted to Mrs. Hinckley for many outstanding contributions. As president of the Relief Society organizations of the Northern States Mission she was unusually successful. She directed a very impressive dramatization of the organization of the Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in connection with the centennial of the founding of Nauvoo by the Mormon people. Mrs. Adele Howells served as counselor to Mrs. Hinckley in the Granite Stake Y. W. M. I. A. And was at one time a Relief Society president in New York City. Mrs. Janet Thompson served as president of the Twentieth Ward Primary Association for five years and was counselor of the Ensign Stake Primary Association for thirteen years. A former member of the Relief Society General Board, she is well known to Relief Society women, having made many splendid contributions to our organization. Her work as chairman of the music committee has been significant. The new Relief Society Song Book was prepared under the capable direction of this committee. Miss Beth Paxman, formerly a member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board, is the daughter of W. Monroe Paxman and Mrs. Achsa Paxman, a member of the Relief Society General Board. Miss Paxman has also been an active Primary worker. The capabilities, training and Church experience of the new general superintendency and board bid fair for a strong and effective Primary organization. Though each of the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church has its special assignment and works with its own particular group, all are united and are working in harmony to promote the welfare of the children, the daughters and the mothers of the Church; all are endeavoring to advance the work of the Church as a whole. That which is of interest and importance to one organization is of interest and importance to all. The Relief Society General Board extends to the new Primary Superintendency and General Board its best wishes for a successful administration.
TO THE FIELD
Message from the General Church Music Committee
MUSIC occupies a very prominent place in all meetings of the Latter-day Saints. It is estimated that approximately one-third of the total time spent in these meetings is devoted to music. Congregational singing has ever been an important and delightful feature of our services. With this thought in mind, a hymn-singing project for the entire Church membership was inaugurated at a recent meeting of representatives of the Quorum of the Twelve, the Presiding Bishopric and all auxiliary organizations under the direction of the General Music Committee. The project contemplates the learning of a new hymn every month by all congregations throughout the Church. These hymns have been selected by the General Music Committee, and direction for their presentation will appear in the Improvement Era, beginning with the April issue. All the hymns to be learned will be taken from the Latter-day Saint Hymn Book, and it is the aim to assist the bishops in every way possible in placing these hymn books in every meeting house in the Church so that the abundance of rich material which the books contain may be learned by the congregations and choirs. The hymns to be learned during the first three months are as follows: April?No. 113?Glory to God on High. May?No. 507?God Moves in a Mysterious Way. June?No. 2?Praise Ye the Lord! It is to be hoped that the hymn, Glory to God on High, will be sung in every Relief Society meeting during the month of April and that a song practice period be devoted to the learning of this song the first part of the month. During May and June a similar procedure should be followed for the songs designated for those months. In addition, it is suggested that after each song is learned it be frequently sung until it is well known and familiar in all congregations. It is the aim to develop through this hymn-singing project more joyous participation in the singing of hymns, a richer appreciation of their beauty and an enrichment of Gospel truths through the power of song. "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." (D. C. 25:12) This project is not planned to take the place of the regular Relief Society music program but is supplementary to it.
Items of Interest
To Relief Society
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE visitors are invited to visit the general offices of the Society, Bishop's Building, second floor, where they may arrange to meet friends, to rest, to telephone or write notes. An information desk will be located there for their convenience. The attendant will be pleased to direct visitors to the various departments of the Society where they may wish to transact business?subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine, obtain supplies, or order the new Relief Society Song Book. A special exhibit of temple and burial clothing, which will be open daily from 9 till 6 o'clock, will be arranged in Room 20, on the same floor. Visitors will also be welcomed at the Mormon Handicraft Shop at 21 West South Temple Street, where a variety of fine and unusual handiwork will await their inspection.
Children's Friend Souvenir Number
THE April, 1940, issue of the Children's Friend, published by the Primary Association, is a souvenir number. It is an enlarged edition honoring the retiring Primary Superintendency and General Board. A picture of Miss May Anderson, the former superintendent, is printed on the cover. The magazine contains biographical sketches of the retiring superintendency, revealing them as
Conference Visitors
"women who have looked for their rewards in the lives and characters of the boys and girls they have served". It also contains accounts of the growth and activities of the Primary Association. Interest is heightened throughout by beautiful and well chosen pictures. The entire magazine is superior. It is a delight to read and invaluable as a reference.
School of Social Work Gains National Recognition
THE following announcement made in The Social Work Commentator, published by the School of Social Work, University of Utah, is of interest to all organizations in the Intermountain region engaged in social welfare: "National recognition was accorded the University of Utah School of Social Work when it was given accredited standing by the American Association of Schools of Social Work at the organization's fifteenth annual meeting held in January at Washington, D. C. "Official announcement of this honor was made by Dr. Arthur L. Beeley, dean of the school, upon his return from the national sessions. He reported that the faculty and curriculum, the budget and the physical set-up of the school were all approved as meeting the requirements of the national association. "This event is of particular significance to the Intermountain region, where the need for an authoritative institution to instruct professional workers in the field of public welfare and social service has long been felt."
The Annual Reminder Of Tithing By The Presiding Bishopric
ONCE each year the General Authorities of the Church endeavor to direct the attention of every member of the Church to the law of tithing. This important principle is so vital to the success of the Church, so helpful to those who practice it, and so definitely a part of the fundamental doctrines of the Church, that it is essential that it frequently be brought to the attention of Latter-day Saints. Members of the Relief Society are so closely related to the practice of the principle of tithing in the average home that their cooperation is especially urged in the Church-wide educational campaign to be conducted during the month of May. The Prophet Joseph Smith charged the sisters with the duty of provoking their husbands to good works. In no way, probably, could a wife better serve the interests of her family than by encouraging her husband to pay tithing. Testimonies are numerous throughout the Church, and have been since the law of tithing was first introduced, that the beginning of the payment of a regular and full tithing was the beginning of the economic welfare of the family; that the accounting required to compute the exact amount due as tithing and the self-denial and strength needed to comply with this law, have been so definitely reflected in the improved affairs of the family that no question remains as to whether or not the promised blessings follow observance of the principle. Tithing should be paid in the spirit of giving rather than with the hope of reward. However the principle of reward is closely associated with the fulfillment of every spiritual law. The law of tithing is no exception. In fact, the rewards and blessings promised to honest and faithful tithepayers are among the most generous and bounteous promised in connection with any law. We are told that "the windows of heaven" shall be opened to those who tithe themselves for the purposes of the Lord, and that blessings shall be poured out upon them in rich abundance. In the days of financial stress through which the world has just passed, this promise has been fulfilled in so many cases, and in so many lands, that it should not be questioned by any Latter-day Saint. The Lord keeps his promises. If we desire a blessing, we must obey the law upon which the blessing we desire is predicated. In the law of tithing certain requirements are made, and if they are fulfilled the promises are sure to follow. Under the plan provided by the Presiding Bishopric, each Relief Society meeting during the month of May should be provided with a speaker assigned to present a particular phase of the law of tithing. It is recommended that the talks be five minutes in length and that ample time be provided for careful preparation. The same request is being made of each organization of the Church. In addition, the teaching of tithing is to be carried to every Latter-day Saint home through the ward Priesthood teachers. Some suggestions for talks in Relief Society meetings are given herewith:
TITHING IN EARLY TIMES
The payment of the tithe?the portion due God?is an ancient, wide-spread practice found among many people. The institution antedates the Mosaic dispensation, for Abraham paid tithes of the spoil to Melchizedek, king of Salem, and "priest of the most high God" (Gen. 14:18-20); and Jacob, at Bethel, vowed: "And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give a tenth unto thee." (Gen. 28:22.)
CHILDREN OF ISRAEL TITHED
The children of Israel manifested their repentance by an immediate payment of tithes in the reformation inaugurated by Hezekiah (2 Chronicles 31:1-10), and temporal blessings from the Lord resulted. Hezekiah inquired as to the source of such plenty, and "Azariah, the chief priest of the house of Zodak, answered him and said, 'Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty, for the Lord hath blessed His people; and that which is left is this great store." Hezekiah wrought that which was good and right and true before the Lord his God, "and in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
PROMOTES UNSELFISHNESS
A recent writer advised all young men starting out for themselves to make a point of contributing regularly, monthly or weekly, to some charitable cause, in order to train themselves to lessen their selfishness?one of the most potent enemies of godliness, which naturally comes to people who exclusively regard their own interests and happiness. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints provision is made for the fulfilling of this duty in the law of tithing. Every young man should pay tithing from the day he becomes a member of the Church on all his increase in kind. The amount is immaterial, just so it is one-tenth?which is the meaning of tithing.
MUST GIVE OF OURSELVES IN TITHING
Payment of tithing should be made in spirit. Emerson says of gifts: "The only gift is a portion of thyself. Thou must bleed for me." Tithing is not a tax; it is a voluntary offering brought forth by the giver, actuated by no other motive than a pure love for his fellows, for the Church as God's organization on earth, and a desire in his heart to fulfill the commands of God.
PROMOTES SPIRITUAL GROWTH
There are four good reasons why the payment of tithing influences spiritual growth: It is a principle with promise; a protection against curses and evil; it casts away the fear of disobedience; it is a command of God, and the obedient continue to be the sons of God.
THE ANNUAL REMINDER OF TITHING
FOR THE PROGRESS OF THE CHURCH
The Church is a divine organization upon the earth, through which God accomplishes His desires for the benefit of those who are members and who love and obey Him. The Church is a guide of their faith, a help to their right conduct, an aid to those who are spiritually weak; through it, they receive divine instructions for their benefit and happiness. The law of tithing is God's law of revenue to the Church, without which there would be no way of meeting its administrative expenses or carrying on the purposes of the Lord. In place of the law of consecration, the Lord in his mercy gave his people the law of tithing, in order that there might be means in His storehouse for the accomplishment of His purposes: The gathering of and providing for the poor, preaching the Gospel to the nations, and the promotion of the work of the Church in general. For spiritual and temporal advantages, the Church builds and maintains temples, meeting houses, tabernacles, and schools where the young people may be trained in the faith of the Gospel. Without the law of tithing, this essential work, and other incidental labors, could not be carried on.
APRIL RAIN By J. B. Jennings
Upon the fields of April The gentle-falling rain Descends with touch as tender As that which eases pain;
Falls lightly on the hayland And softly in the grain And glistens on the willows That dwell along the lane.
Then, hark, upon the mountain, And sweetly on the plain, The long, low hush and murmur? The sound of April rain.
The Smoke Nuisance
"SMOKING is increasing rapidly among high school students. This subject becomes a health problem, and it is time that health authorities throughout the country, public-spirited individuals, started to debunk the propaganda for tobacco. It is time that high school students knew that the great tobacco trusts are spending millions of dollars for lying testimonials and deceiving radio programs and pernicious advertising. "High school students should know that the hard-up hero that poses in the magazine has been paid for his endorsement, and in many cases, if the truth were known, he is trying to overcome the habit that enslaves him. Our boys and girls should know that tobacco is not a food on a par with candy and ice cream, but that it is a nerve-irritant and a poison. Whether there are fifteen or seventeen different kinds of poison in tobacco is not for us to say, but we do know that nicotine is a highly toxic chemical and that it is still used by the gardener in very dilute solutions as a spray on plants to kill insects and pests. It is time our boys were reminded of the fact that cigarettes contribute to delinquency, that they befuddle a boy and stifle his ambition and decision. Youth needs no handicap but must maintain all its mental vigor. "Public health has to do with the infant death rate, and girls who are taking the 'tobacco road' to nervous instability, sallow complexions, lack of freshness, and sterility should know that the guinea pigs exposed to tobacco smoke often had young born dead, dwarfed, and below normal weight; that the tobacco-blowing mother is an additional threat to our infant death rate which is already too high. Our boys should know that the so-called degenerative diseases, 'cardio-vascular-renal group', are the leading causes of death after age 35, and they maintain this position throughout life. That alcohol and tobacco contribute something to the prevalence of these diseases is admitted by every physician in America today. Let us tell the youth that 'cigarettes satisfy', but so do morphine, heroin, and phenobarbital. Let us plead with youth to wait until maturity and then decide for themselves whether or not they shall be users of tobacco. We must debunk this high-powered sales organization that seeks to exploit youth for profit and is really making of tobacco a termite eating at the foundation of youth."
Editor's Note: The above article was issued as part of a public health bulletin written by Dr. T. J. Howells, Health Commissioner of Salt Lake City, Utah, to physicians and public health organizations throughout the West.
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
RESUME
Carolyn Evans had a problem almost bigger than she could carry in the disparity of interests between herself and her husband, Turner. She had unknowingly let him grow away from her. She was suddenly and rudely awakened, and then realized the home condition was affecting the lives of her boys. Bob, the eldest, was in love with JUNE STRAUGHN but would do nothing about it because of the difference in their homes and families. Carson, the second son, unknown to Carolyn was worrying his father and older brother. Calves were disappearing from the lower pasture, and evidence pointed toward him as the thief. He, Bob reasoned, could easily feel he had a right to the calves. Carolyn, as newly selected counselor in Relief Society, had been making calls in the lower valley. When she returned, she found the gate wired fast. Turner had wired it against the loss of more calves, but she thought he had wired it out of disrespect for her. In crawling under the fence she tore her only dress; in anger, she decided there was no point in going so shabby. The next time her husband made ready to go to town she demanded to go with him. He would not give her money unless she told him what she wanted to do with it. But his credit was good, and once in the store she decided to do more than just buy a dress. However, she kept her purchases secret. On the way home she told Turner that Bob was taking Lucile Semple to the ward reunion rather than June. Turner is disgusted and vows to reprimand his son for it.
CHAPTER SIX
TRUE to his word, Turner spoke to Bob at the breakfast table the next morning after they had been in town. "Since when have you been running with the Semple crowd?" he demanded. Bob paused in the act of buttering a biscuit. "I?haven't been running with them, exactly." He saw Carson give him a swift glance. "Are you taking Lucile to the dance tonight?" "Haven't nerve enough to ask the one you want, eh? I wouldn't let a sissy like Joe Colts beat my time." "I asked the one I wanted," Bob answered shortly. It hurt all the more because he knew his father was right. He had wanted June, but he wasn't taking her now or any time. The fact that he had been very careful regarding whom he went with did not add to his peace of mind. Still Turner would not drop the subject, and suddenly Bob rose. His mouth was a straight, hard line. "I am still taking her." Striding quickly to the door, he went out. "If you want him to go with girls like June," Carson drawled, "you might loosen up. Taking the car occasionally would help." "He has a car." "Ho, you mean the flivver. How come you are not worrying about me? I am taking Garden." "I don't like it any better than I like his taking Lucile. Plenty of boys and girls ride in flivvers, as you call them. It is as good a car as Joe has." "But Joe isn't Bob." "He will have to use it if he uses anything. Mother will want the other car." Carson turned to his mother. "How come you rate the car? It must be that new house dress." "Please, Carson." At her look of distress, he laughed. He rose to leave the table. As he passed her, he grinned. "Take courage, Fair One. He'll be human yet?by the time he gets us all reared." Then he ran his fingers over her hair. "What has happened to your hair? It has lost its haggard look." She smiled at him, but at the same time she was thinking, "No wonder I keep quiet. When Turner starts something it is the only thing to do." Vaguely she wondered what drove Turner to such outbursts. She did not think of them as an emotional outlet which served him much as her quiet spells served her. She did not think of him as needing an outlet; he had things so much his own way. It was always her or Bob on whom his anger fell. Carson must not irritate him. Suddenly she felt an unreasoning anger toward her new house dress, her numerous purchases. They could not solve her problem. Had she expected them to take her back fifteen years? With help she might recover part of what had been lost. Turner would never give her that help. And, of course, she had no desire for it either.
THEN it was evening and time for the party. "Aren't you going?" Carolyn asked her husband again when he came in late and settled himself with a book. He made no answer. At her look of dismay, Carson said: "Get ready, Mom. I will drive you. Garden can go with us."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
Still Turner did not speak, so Carolyn nodded in agreement and went to dress. Dressing slowly and carefully, Carolyn realized her hands were shaking. If this proved an idle gesture, she would never make another. "Why do I keep thinking of it that way?" she asked herself irritably. "I do not care what he thinks." However, she was very careful about dressing. She tried to coax her hair into soft waves. She could not get the effect the operator had achieved; but even with her inexperienced efforts the result was startling, for the softness gave youth to her features. She used the new powder and rouge, and then slipped the dress over her head and patted her hair into place. "Oh!" she gasped, viewing herself full-length in the mirror. "I couldn't go this way. I would be too self-conscious. I feel like a bride." But as she looked, her dismay turned to satisfaction, to deep-down joy. "I can go," she reassured herself. "It will be fun." The dress was a black sheer with white lace at the throat and a fine line of white-marked gores on a short, flared skirt. Sheer hose and black suede pumps accentuated her trimness. She was fervently thankful for the work that had kept her slender. Unconsciously she straightened her shoulders. Her head came up. When she could no longer find an excuse for lingering, she opened the door and stepped into the living room. "Gosh!" Dennis' mouth dropped. It wasn't a word as much as an exclamation.
CATHEDRAL OF PEACE
Bob, who was dressed and ready to leave, stopped short with his hand on the door knob. Never before could he remember seeing his mother look just like this. She had never, in his memory, had a complete outfit. Her hair had never had that particular sheen; her features had never seemed so delicate or her skin so smooth. And these things were not all. There was something more?a radiance, a poise, a self-worth. She was lifted from a fact to a presence, to a person. Catching her eye, he raised his hand in salute. It said, "Good going." The twins swooped upon her. She stooped and put out her hands to catch them. "U?um. What lovely kisses." "We want to go." "You can't go," Dennis told them in a misery-loves-company tone. "You have to stay here with me." Just then Carson came downstairs. His quick eyes lighted with incredulity, then approbation. "Whew! Are you stepping out, or are you! Here, you haven't your powder on right. Give me your puff?and the rouge," he added, as she turned to her room for the powder. "Where did you learn the art?" Dennis wanted to know, as he watched his older brother's deft movements. "You must have had practice. Better watch him, Mom." "Any one but a blind man would know how it is done," Carson answered, genially. "Now where is your lipstick?" "Lipstick!" Dennis gasped over the word. "Haven't you any?" "Yes. There was some came in the kit, but I don't think?" "Get it." When Carson was through, he stepped back to view his work. "You look a million," was his comment. "Be sure your shoes are comfortable. You are going to be danced off your feet." "I think I'll drive you, instead?," Bob began, but his brother cut him short. "No, you don't. Night." "Thanks, son." Something more than joy flooded over Carolyn. The moment, so perfect, carried her on wings of memory back ten, fifteen years; back beyond this harsh present to where parents and children were united in a seemingly unbreakable bond of sympathy and understanding. Where along the way had she lost touch? Wasn't there some way of holding this precious, precious moment to be used later when strong-willed, hot-headed Carson needed something to which to tie? She glanced at Turner. Through all of it he had continued to read assiduously. To her knowledge he had not even glanced her way. His brows were drawn together in a scowl. "You had better hurry, Bob." Carolyn turned her attention to Carson. "Finish what you are doing, but hurry. I must be there early. I must help prepare the lunch. Dennis, you might bring the car around and be loading up the freezer, if you can, and these dishes and things." Dennis sprang to obey. He snatched every chance to learn to drive. Never before had his mother suggested such a thing. "Give me the keys," he cried. Then Turner slowly lowered his book. With exasperating insouciance he faced the group. "Give you what?" he asked, mildly. "The keys to the car. Mother said I might bring it around to the gate." "Why?" With a bang Bob closed the door behind him. Outside he had a wild idea of taking the car and running it into the river. "Mother said I might back the car out and load up the freezer," Dennis explained, when the echo of the bang was stilled. "I'm through now," Carson was struggling with his coat. "I'll run down after Garden while Mother is finishing." "No, I am," Dennis began, but his father rose slowly. "Neither of you shall have them." Carolyn dropped into the nearest chair. She might have known. He was always a jump ahead. Carson's quick temper flared. "If you think for one moment you are keeping Mother home..." "Who said anything about keeping her home?" Carolyn expelled her breath with relief. He had decided to go after all. She looked hopefully at Carson. "In that case," the boy was saying, "let me go after Garden while you are getting ready." "What has Garden to do with us?" "I am supposed to be taking her to the dance," Carson explained elaborately. He was keeping a leash on his tongue, but his eyes were blazing. "Too bad," the father said indifferently, and turning his back he left the room. For a moment the boy stared at the closed door. His hands clinched. He took a step forward. "Carson," his mother warned. "He'll let you go for Garden later. Don't start anything." "Don't start anything. That's a laugh. I'll go horseback," he exploded. "Not in those clothes." "Who cares about clothes?" He, too, was gone. Dennis looked at his mother. She had wilted. All the buoyancy and expectancy had been replaced by hopeless despair. "Cheer up," he said bravely, trying to keep back his own tears. "You have just changed boy-friends, that's all." "I can't go." "You will have to," he explained, anxiously. "They are expecting you, and if you don't go, some one will be sure to ask questions." So young?so young to know?things. But it was true. There was an unspoken coalition between them. These scenes must never be known beyond the family circle. As it turned out, no excuses were needed.
"NO wonder you were late," Mrs. Sutton, the other counselor, cried, as Carolyn removed her coat. "We will forgive you for wasting time on yourself. The result justifies it." She looked up at Turner Evans who had come in with his arms full. "We should have arranged for a prize. For the best looking couple. I hope you will let her help us in the kitchen at least some of the time." Mrs. Straughn, who was superintending the placing of the food and dishes, spoke in her ear, "You are sweet tonight." "Where did you find her?" Bill Sutton asked Turner, waggishly, when the program was over and they were waiting for the floor to be cleared for dancing. Carolyn was helping Mrs. Sutton, but she caught Turner's reply. "I'll never tell." It was all happy nonsense, but somehow it thrilled. She wanted the Suttons to think she and Turner were as happy as they. What an absurd want, when they were all but separated. Her face flushed. Turner had to answer, of course, but there needn't be that happy lilt to his voice. "You are plain lucky," Mrs. Sutton added. Presently Bob came seeking her for a dance. "Those new clothes weren't bought to sell ice-cream in." "Why aren't you dancing with the girls?" she asked, when they were on the dance floor. "I am," he answered briefly. Then later, "Have you seen Carson?" She told him what had happened and ended with, "He and Garden must have gone some other place." "That is what I was afraid of." At first the dancing was difficult for Carolyn. It had been so long since she had been on a dance floor; but she had once been an easy, graceful dancer, and with Bob's help she was soon gliding about as if she had never had a recess from it. "Are you having a good time, Bob?" she asked at length, noticing his quiet manner. "Oh, sure." But his tone belied his words. She saw his glance stray toward June Straughn. She was a dream in an organdie formal. It was canary yellow at her throat but deepened downward until the last billowing ruffle was burnt orange. Her black hair was long, and she had a habit of tossing her head to throw it back. Joe was puffed with importance. He hung about her?an attention she received with apparent indifference. "You haven't danced with June, have you?" "That is so," he said, just as if he had not yet thought of it. "Don't be rude, Bob. After all she is?June. Why are you acting this way?" "When I am not afraid to take a girl to my home," he said bitterly, "I'll answer that question." She sighed and looked about for Turner. He was dancing with Pearl Grover. That meant he would likely dance with her next. And he did. When the next dance was well started, he found his way to where she was. "I thought you were helping in the kitchen," he said for the benefit of the listeners. As they circled the floor, she saw Bob. He was dancing with June, his strong arm holding her as if she were a bit of thistle down. Totally unaware of it, his face was aglow with that dream that comes only in youth. June's head was back, her eyes meeting his. They danced slowly, as if the world held but the two of them. "Fool." Turner's sharp voice brought Carolyn's attention quickly to him. "He is blind if he can't see the girl is in love with him." Carolyn's hopes quickened to new life. That lovely, lovely girl and her son! Life could hold no sweeter promise for him, but until his pride was satisfied he would never claim her. For a moment Carolyn toyed with the idea of changing the home, of improving it so he would be eager to bring her there. She supposed it could be done.
AS if Turner's dance had been a signal, other men danced with Carolyn. Steps, rhythm, long forgotten, came again to memory. It was not until the evening was nearly gone that Turner had another chance. "The new dress has made you popular," was his greeting when they were on the floor. "It might be that. Anyway, I like it." "Huh," was his comment, but there was a difference in this dance and the first. Bob and June were dancing again, and Lucile was flaunting her indifference by romping down the floor with Joe Colts. They came so close, Turner tightened his arm about Carolyn and whirled her away. They made several rounds of the floor before he remembered to release her, and for those brief moments life turned back. She could feel the thud of his heart, and the caressive pressure of his arms brought an ecstasy of memory. How sweet he had once been to her. His love then had encompassed her world. For the first time in a long while she sincerely wondered if she could overtake Time. She was afraid to try for fear that when she did there would be nothing waiting.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940
Later, while dancing with Kane, he said, "Turner is very proud of you tonight." "Nonsense." "Yes, he is. How could he help being? Perhaps it was this he needed." That was Kane. Always ready to give the other fellow a break. Yet Carolyn felt tears sting her eyes at the ache in his voice. She looked and saw Turner scowling at them. He had never liked Kane. "He is boasting about you to the men." Then he added, "You are so sweet." She flushed. What could Turner have said? He hadn't resented her rebellion. As a matter of fact, his attitude had been a revelation to her?or was he merely keeping up appearances? Kane sighed. She had not heard his last remark. Carson hadn't appeared, and as the dance progressed Carolyn had become more and more worried. He was so reckless, and so much like his father he would not be forced into a situation. Bob, too, had been watching. The sight of his parents evidently engrossed in each other did something to him. Where was Carson, and what was he up to? Slipping away, he was going down the steps of the building when June, beside him, spoke. "Are you leaving?" "June. Go back." "No. I am going with you. I could see by your face something was wrong. Please." For a moment he hesitated. He did not want her along, but he could not resist. "Come." He took her arm and guided her through the maze of cars to his father's. He had a key. Getting in he swung it about carefully, but once on the highway he drove it swiftly toward home. "May I ask where we are going?" "I am looking for Carson," he said simply. But Carson was not at home. Nor was he at Semple's. Nor was Garden home. They must have gone some place together. Before turning the car back toward the ward house, he stopped. June, watching his face anxiously, was worried. She touched his arm. "Can you tell me?" The words recalled him. He looked down, and everything left him except the fact of her presence. "You darl...," his arms were about her before he remembered. Then they dropped, lifelessly. He started the car.
DRIVING home Turner said, "It seems you had a good time. I?I liked your dress." "I did have a good time." Then, "You were lovely to me, Turner," came to her thoughts. She tried to voice it aloud, but the habit of restraint was too strong. Instead, she said, "I wish I knew why Carson wasn't there." "He needs some temper pounded out of him." For a mile she did not answer, then she began hesitantly, "You can't pound anything out of him. Counsel and advice might work better." She expected an angry retort. Instead, he said wearily, "That is true. If parents controlled themselves they would have no trouble with children." She looked up quickly, but his glance was on the road ahead. Time and again the words and the inflection of his voice came back to her in the days that were to come. When they went up the walk to the house, he opened the door and waited for her to enter. As she put away her things, she grew a little cold with anticipation; but without a good night he went to his own room and closed the door.
(To be continued)
PRAYER FOR TODAY By Lucille Waters Mattson
Tomorrow is our promise of today, Tomorrow is the day when dreams come true, Tomorrow brings us peace, and hope, and faith, For tomorrow we find courage to renew Our tireless, heedless, struggle For the worldly goal that we pursue.
Then lest today should end my life's short span, And I should go beyond in excuse and sorrow, Help me, oh God, to live today As I had dreamed to live tomorrow.
White Rose By Beatrice Rordame Parsons
THE white roses along the path to the great, white house on Madison Street were blooming again. Against a laughing sky they flaunted their pale stems of fragrant flowers. Hester Dean, standing in the doorway of her lovely home, had seen the roses bloom for twenty-five years, and always with a strange, poignant pain in her heart. Hester was tiny, oddly old for her fifty years. Her hair, neat, carefully brushed, was snowy white. But it had been touched with copper that day, twenty-five years ago, when she had gathered a handful of white roses for her wedding bouquet. Hester, the wealthiest girl in town, and David Landess, the poorest boy, were going to be married! David couldn't buy her a fine bouquet from the florist's, but she did not mind. She loved white roses. She laughed gaily as David pointed out the fairest blooms. David's eyes were dark and deep and filled with pride and tenderness, and he laughed, too, and would have gathered her into his arms, then and there, and kissed her, if her cousin Elsie hadn't come in at the gate. She looked from one flushed young face to the other and laughed sharply. "So you've decided to get married," she stated, rather than asked. There was a sly smile in her eyes as she added, "Has David got a job yet, Hester?" It was David who answered, his dark head thrown back, his tone fearless. "I'm going on a mission, Elsie. When I come back, I'm going to work hard and give Hester the sort of home she's been used to." There was an almost fierce determination in his tone as he finished, "Someday, Elsie, you'll see. I'll be rich!" "Rich!" Elsie's voice was filled with withering scorn. She moved sharply so that the silken ruffles of her gown rustled luxuriously. Elsie was older than Hester, and her sarcasm dominated the garden, holding Hester tongue-tied before it. "You'll throw away what little you have on a mission, then you'll come back and be content to live as you've always lived." Her sharp, blue eyes swept down the block to where a small house nestled among unkempt trees. She came close to where Hester stood: "Look at David's home! Will you be content to live there?" Her eyebrows shot up, and she added, "Almost anyone would be ashamed to live as David lives. Tell me, Hester, will you be happy amid such squalor?" A queer, frightened feeling came into Hester's heart. Perhaps if David's father and mother had lived, the house would not have been so shabby. But David was a man. He did not know how to fix it up. She put back her head, and her eyes were shining as she faced Elsie. "I'll fix David's home up; I'll be proud to. I'll put clean, white curtains at the windows and plant daisies and marigolds along the walk. David will help me." He would help her because he loved her. She gave him a tender glance, standing there beside her so tall, so proud, and cried: "When he comes back from England, I'll be waiting?his
WHITE ROSE
wife. You'll see, Elsie, we will be happy." Elsie's ruffles rustled sharper than ever, and her eyes were bits of cold, blue glass. "You'll never be happy," she corrected, as she swept down the path and opened the gate. "You'll be sorry you ever married him. Mark my words."
WHEN she was gone, a cold wind seemed to blow over the garden. Hester stood with her armload of white roses and stared after her. In spite of her desire not to let them, her eyes stopped at David's home. Winter snows had streaked the brown paint with browner stains. The sun picked out every tin can shot by his careless hand from the back stoop toward the garbage pail and left where it had fallen. Suddenly, not wanting to?not wanting to until it hurt?Hester let her eyes study David. His shirt was rumpled, his collar wilted, his shoes unpolished. She started. Never before had she seen David just that way. She didn't want to see him so. But she did?clearly. Thoughts which she tried vainly to turn away came into her mind. Was David really careless, shiftless? He was young. Perhaps that was what was the matter. He had never had anyone to tell him how to be neat. But she had been reared in cleanliness, orderliness. Wouldn't that make a difference? There might be quarrels, sharp words. Love might die! Tears were in her brown eyes, and the roses drooped in her hands. Her voice was hoarse, unrecognizable. She didn't want to say the words that came to her lips, but she could not keep them back. "Elsie's right, David. It wouldn't work out. I couldn't stand it?you not having a job, the house being so poor and run down. I'm... I'm sorry..." Her voice broke, and she could not go on for the stricken look in David's eyes. Even now, after twenty-five years, she could see the swift draining of color from his cheeks. Words came from his pale, strained lips, but he faltered before he said them. "All right, Hester," he said at last, "if that's the way you feel." He choked, and to hide it, grinned tremulously. Then, setting his battered hat across his dark hair, he walked down the path. Though he tried to carry himself erect, his shoulders drooped hopelessly as he opened the gate. Hester wanted to call him back. Through twenty-five years she recalled how fiercely she had wanted to call him back, how she had wanted to run after him, to tell him that nothing mattered except that she loved him. But Elsie's words held her back?held her back like a forbidding hand. She had let the white roses trickle slowly from her fingers and had gone inside. Tears were dripping slowly, torturously into her heart, but she kept her small, coppery head high, her lips tight as she faced her mother and father and told them that she and David would not be married. She never let them, nor the world, guess that when David left for his mission, her heart died.
SOMEHOW she waited through the years that he was gone, somehow managed to smile. When she heard that he would soon be coming home, a new hope was born in her breast. Perhaps he would come back and ask her again. This time she would marry him gladly, willingly. She knew what it meant to be lonely, afraid, even though surrounded by family and friends. But when David came back, he married Constance Manners and took his bride to his shabby, run-down house to live. Elsie called the next day, smiling smugly at Hester, and looking very handsome in her rich, fine clothes. She nodded as she peeped from behind the stiff, white curtains of Hester's bedroom toward the small, brown house. "I told you so, Hester," she cried triumphantly. "David hasn't even got a job, yet he up and marries a young girl like Connie without a thought for the future." Hester tried to speak, to tell about the job someone had promised David, but Elsie laughed sharply and stopped her. "Oh, I know, but that doesn't say that they are going to get along." "But they'll be together," cried Hester's heart in a wild, tumultuous tush. But her pale lips only said, "Perhaps, Elsie." That was as much as Hester ever said to Elsie. She could not find it in her heart to blame Elsie. It was her own fault that she suffered as she did. The years had not dried the tears that tugged at her lashes every time she heard David's name. When she was alone in her narrow, white bed that night, she let bitter tears run freely. David, her David, married to silly, - frivolous Connie Manners! How could she bear it? How would she ever be able to go on watching them together, watching David's happiness? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 For he was happy with Connie, though he did not have a good job, nor very much money. David was content. He did not seem to care about material things ? furniture, clothing. He went about whistling in worn-out overalls, his dark hair blowing in the breeze. Hester saw him often at church. At times he wore an odd coat and trousers, but he still laughed his gay, boyish laugh and looked years younger than he really was. -Hester saw, with a quick, painful intake of breath, that when he looked at Connie his eyes were dark and deep and tender. She came to know, late that summer, that Connie would have a child ?the baby that should have been hers! That was the hardest thing she had ever been called upon to bear. David's child! When it came, Elsie, married now, and calmly, coldly proud of her wealthy husband, smiled vat Hester and said, "I told you so." True to Elsie's prophecy, the ? ily did have a difficult time; a friendly, helping hand had to be extended to them. David accepted it with a full heart, and holding his child in his arms, his face glowed with pride. Through the winter he cleared walks and shoveled snow while Connie hung small, white squares of flannel along the drooping clothesline? When the white roses bloomed again in the garden of the big, white house, the tiny boy played and crawled wobblingly about the rickety porch while David spread his long legs, threw back his dark head and laughed with pride a joy at his efforts. When the roses bloomed "five WHITE ROSE more times, the boy, small David, trudged off to school, a fine, chubby youngster in spite of plain food and clothing. He looked like big David ?so like him that Hester, peeping from her window, wanted to cry. She wished that her dear father and mother had lived to see him. They had never ceased to feel sad that David and Hester had not married, for they had known David and would have been content to see their daughter married to him. They seemed to know their only child was not truly happy, though she had more of material things than. Most young women and according to EIsie's views should have been extremely content. ESTER, alone in the big, white house, felt very lonely. She wanted terribly to make friends with the small lad. She stood by the fence when school was out one day and gave him a cookie, fresh from her electric oven. He was shy at first, then friendly, flashing her his wide smile, laughing with his big, black eyes into her small, lined face. One day to her joy she got him into her clean, white kitchen. He was filled with excitement at the huge, white refrigerator, the great, white stove. She let him wash his dirty, little hands at her shining sink, and did not mind to see him splash the drain. He wiped them on a pink towel, leaving queer, dark stains behind. But he did not see. His eyes were shining, and he spread his legs apart ?so like his father?and asked in a voice filled with awe, if she was "... Awful rich, like people said?" She nodded, looking at the dark 273 spatters against the drain. "I've lots of money, David,' she told him carefully, keeping her lips from crying the thought that was growing in her heart. "As people say, I'm rich?rich in gold. Father was a wealthy man. He left me enough for five people. Though I share as much as I can with those who need it, I still have more than I can use." His dark eyes turned toward the rich rugs, the fine furniture. "Gee!" he cried, "I'd like to be rich like you!" Then he lifted his childish head, put out his small chest, and bragged, "Some day, I'm going to be rich!" She smiled gently, and behind her smile she was planning. Some day he would have money. She'd see that he had enough to send him to college. He'd not miss schooling as his father had done. She wiped the dirty smudges from the sink, almost wishing that she might leave them there for company. After that first day, she wasn't lonesome for small David. He came often, tracking mud over her clean, waxed floors. As he grew bigger, he came in to shout how his team had won the ball game. She did not mind that he tracked crumbs over her living room floor as he followed her about telling her about that run Skinny Jones had made. "... Two bases full and a home run!" As long as she could share him with his father and his pale, sickly mother, Hester was happy. It was like having David back again?her David who was older now and slump-shouldered and careless of his gait, but still smiling, laughing, proud of his wife and son. 274 Hester still loved David?loved him deeply. Her one regret was that she had not snatched what happiness, what love she might have had with him. That?David's love she would have had through all her days. What else could have mattered?poverty, struggle? Even if she and David had sometimes quarreled, as she knew Connie and David sometimes did, could that have really made love die? Love did not die of such trivial matters. Love grew stronger and stronger with each unfriendly blow of Fate. If she had married David, her life would have been full. She would have lived. Lived! Known love! Borne David's son?David's tall, grown-up son! He was almost twenty now and telling her his dream?the same dream his father had known. He was going on a mission. Then he was coming home and get a good job so that some day he could be as tich as she. Hester wanted to put her hand across his mouth and stop his words ? his father's words coming back to her across the years. But he just sat there, eating a piece of the cake she had baked especially for him, twisting his rough shoes carelessly, thoughtlessly, into the rungs of her mahogany chair and smiling so confidently that she said nothing. She still had her own dreams. But when she explained them very carefully to David's father, he looked her straight and unflinchingly in the eye and said, "No thank you, Hester. You are very kind, but David's mother and I can not let you give David money. He does not need it. He's ambitious. He'll get along." Very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 gently, he added, "His mission is assured. I can send him a little money each month. David is going to England...." England! Again David's eyes shone as they had shone twenty-five years before when he had left for England. And again Hester's heart cried, "But England is so far away!" But she only smiled and said very gently, "I'm sure he'll have a very successful mission, David." SO it was that Hester stood in the doorway of her big, white house and watched young David striding away toward his destiny. His shoulders were straight, his eyes clear and bright and filled with a desire to carry the Gospel to the farthest corner of the world?a world tom by grief and war and sadly in need of Christ's teachings. His hand went gaily up when he saw her, and he blew her a kiss. She wanted to run after him, to gather him close and. Kiss his young lips as his mother had just kissed them. But she only waved and smiled as he went out of sight. Then her eyes, misted as they were with unshed tears, turned down the street toward the small, brown house nestled among the tall trees. Tin cans glistened about the garbage pail, and winter had left brown streaks against the brown paint. It was a poor house compared to the one where she stood. But she knew suddenly, clearly, that it was not poor at all. There was love there, and laughter. There was sacrifice?a willingness to share with God the treasure He had given them. There were memories? (Continued on page 284) Notes FROM THE FIELD By Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer pps section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proven successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others, (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations, and (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served the Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great interest, but the space available for "Notes from the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for teports on the work of the organization rather than of individuals. Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for Messages from Australian Mission HE annual report from this mission was accompanied by an interesting narrative summary from Maud M. Judd, mission president of Relief Societies. She reported that she had recently accompanied her husband, President James Judd, on a tour of the mission, and had "found all the organizations working in unity and harmony...." She continues: "The organizations have been behind me in every project that has been attempted. The Magazine drive received enthusiastic support in nearly every branch. Last February we donated both money and clothing to relieve Bush fire victims and received a letter of thanks from reproduction. Pictures must be accompanied by informative narrative accounts of the events or activities to which they pertain. Wards desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes from the Field' are requested to send them through their respective stake Relief Societies. It often happens that one or two wards in a stake will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide basis, and in such instances it would be to the advantage of the stake to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine with all participating wards represented. All narrative material should bear the date of submittal, and all references to certain seasons or special occasions should be identified by the correct dates. Similarly, all pictures should have both date and identification on the reverse. Material submitted for "Notes from the Field'' is to be addressed to the General SecretaryTreasurer. The Missions the Lord Mayor. To raise money this year, the organizations have held many fine musical teas which proved a success in every case." Spanish American Mission ARTHA W. WILLIAMS is president of Relief Societies in this mission, with headquarters at E] Paso, Texas. She wrote on January 20, 1940: "We are very happy over the results that have been accomplished in Relief Society work throughout the mission and are proud of the fact that they have progressed so much during the year. As you will notice from our report, we have increased our membership more than ENTRANCE TO SWISS MISSION HOME (Copy of painting by Fawn B. McKay) 100 per cent, and the activities accomplished during the year were much more extensive than those of 1938. We hope that during the coming year we will continue to increase our numbers and activities, that this society will accomplish much good among the people of this mission. We have all of the Relief Society lessons for the year translated and compiled into a book, and these lessons are being used throughout the mission." Swiss Mission THE accompanying artistic sketch of the entrance to the mission home, Leimenstrasse 49, Basel, was done by Sister Fawn B. McKay of Utah, recently released president of the Relief Societies in the Swiss Mission. This mission home was purchased by the Church in 1920, and many indeed are the missionaries, members, and friends of the Church who have passed through its friendly doors during the twenty years since its establishment. All L. D. S. Missionaries from the United States were recalled at the outbreak of the war in the fall of 1939, and President and Sister Thomas E. McKay of the Swiss Mission were the last to leave, sailing February, 1940. Also presented here is an interesting picture of Relief Society women in the Swiss Mission, taken at the mission conference in Berne at Easter time, 1939. Sister McKay wrote at that time: "The calmness RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN IN THE SWISS MISSION Front row, second from left, Fawn B. McKay, former president of the Swiss Mission Relief Societies; third from ieft, Evelyn N. Wood, former president of the West German Mission Relief Societies. And good judgment of the Swiss women in these rather hectic times is much to be admired." And early in January, 1940, she wrote: "The lull in war activity you are all quite aware of, but the spell of gloom and tension still predominates... I am happy to report that the organizations are holding up extremely well." Tahitian Mission ACCOMPANYING the annual report from this mission was the following summary written January 10, 1940, by Iona B. Stevens, who presides over the Tahitian Mission Relief Societies: "The year 1939 was an eventful one for the sisters of this mission. They were extremely grateful for the privilege of meeting President Rufus K. Hardy, of the First Council of Seventy, as he journeyed from island to island. The tour of the Tahitian Mission in company with President Hardy will always stand out as an important event in the lives of President Stevens and myself. "The Relief Society sisters on the various islands did much to make our brief sojourn there as comfortable and pleasant as possible. On the five representative islands we visited, I noted that the Relief Society presidents took the leadership in the preparation of our meals (or rather feasts). They saw that our clothes were laundered, that we had warm bath water, and also directed the sisters in performing many other services which helped to make our visit comfortable and pleasant. The executive ability of these presidents was a pleasant surprise. It was easily noted that the work of this Society plays a major role in the lives of the women of each branch. "Outstanding programs consisting of beautiful songs, interesting talks on the Gospel and scriptural readings, were presented for us on each island visited. The ability of the sisters to quote scripture is remarkable. They love their Bible and Book of Mormon, and quote countless passages from memory without an error." British Mission THE presidency of the Relief Society in Edinburgh, shown in the accompanying photograph, sent the following report, dated December 15, 1939, of the conduct of Relief Society work since the beginning of the war and consequent withdrawal of missionaries: "We decided to put away all the dainty work that was being done for a sale of work at Christmas to help our funds. As we did in the last war, we decided to work for the hospitals and for the Red Cross, which has given us much work and also a box for collections. We tried meeting in daylight, but as we all have to work it was not convenient, and we now meet at the hall at 6:30. The streets are very dark, shops shut at six, and cars trundle along dim and rather ghostly. Owing to the sandbags against the buildings, every sound seems to develop an echo. 'The cars sound like gunfire at certain points. The hoot of a ship at sea or a railway engine is often taken for the air raid warning, which by the way is a terrifying wail. "We in Edinburgh have many non-members in our work party, all very keen to help and willing to take part in our program on open night. We need your prayers that we along with all our members in other nations may keep the faith, and that our Father in his love may shorten these days." Tongan Mission HE following comments are from a letter dated February 6, 1940, from Evelyn H. Dunn who presides over the Tongan Mission Relief Societies: "I am happy to report that we RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY, EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND Left to right, Counselors H. Falconer and H. McCourt, and President A. Patterson. Have organized the Relief Society work in two new branches during the last year. One branch is in the Togatabu District, on the large island of the group where the mission headquarters is located. The other branch is located on a very small island far to the north. I have not had a chance to visit there, as the mission work was started there less than a year ago, and the island is very hard to reach. President Dunn had an opportunity to visit there early in the year, and he recommended that the Relief Society work be started. Misitana Vea, and his wife Mele Seini, who had been second counselor in the mission presidency of the Relief Society, were called as missionaries to go to the island. Mele Seini had instructions to organize the Relief Society there, and she reports that the sisters are very much interested. "The Tongan people are very poor at this time owing to the fact that the price of copra is so low. They have plenty of food, for they can raise it themselves, but it is very hard for them to get clothing. We feel that the little money which the Relief Society has on hand may be needed, so we are being very careful with it." Sister Dunn also reported the release of her two counselors in the RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS AT BAZAAR, MOWBRAY, SOUTH AFRICA Front row, third from left, Josephine H. Folland, president of South African Mission Relief Societies. Mission presidency of Relief Society. Because of conditions in this mission it was difficult for the Relief Society presidency to meet, and Sister Dunn feels that better results will be obtained by appointing district Relief Society presidents who can keep in personal touch with the work in the districts. South African Mission FOLLOWING are excerpts from a letter written December 6, 1939, by Josephine H. Folland, who presides over the South African Mission Relief Societies: "We have seven Relief Society organizations scattered throughout the mission. The members in each organization are also very scattered and many of them are employed during the day, making it possible to hold our meetings only in the evenings in connection with the Priesthood meetings. "We have just sent in fifty subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine, representing a very good percentage of the members. "At our headquarters in Mowbray we have an enrollment of thirty-one members, and our average attendance during the past year was twenty per meeting. Among the activities of this branch were two very fine Relief Society conferences, the presentation of the entire program at the Sunday evening meeting on March 18, a dinner for the old folks on March 17 with thirty-eight in attendance, a successful concert August 17, with over 300 paid admissions from which was realized a profit of over $80, and on November 5 a bazaar which was remarkably successful 'considering the unsettled condition during wartime. The bazaax was socially and financially of great benefit to us. Our receipts were approximately $250. We now have enough money to carry on our work and meet the rather heavy demands for charity for the coming year. We have also had some very fine lectures and demonstrations throughout the year. "One of our smallest branches, Eerste River, just outside of Cape Town, has four members, but all of them take the Relief Society Magazine. They carry on their work in a most faithful way. They contribute to the Mowbray Branch and also carry on their own charity work. One of the members has a flock of ducks to help with their finances." MUSIC DEPARTMENT How to Learn a New Song By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff HE conductor must know every detail of a new piece and every movement necessary to conduct it before attempting to present it to the chorus. Some choristers carelessly attempt to teach without first having learned. Others try conscientiously to learn their new pieces thoroughly, and fail because they do not know how to study. Here is a procedure to help these: Begin the analysis of a new piece by studying the words. Determine the meter, and look in the dictionary for uncommon words.. Then read through the words many times, both silently and aloud. Finally, memorize them. As you memorize, begin to discover the emotional content. Determine and name the mood of each verse and note the changes in mood as the verse progresses. Mark the important words. At the same time, begin to learn the music. First, hear the general sound of the whole piece by playing it through many times; then learn individual parts so that you can teach them to the chorus. Notice where the melody of each part becomes prominent and where holds and changes of tempo occur. By applying methods outlined in former articles, it is now possible to set a tempo and determine the dynamics. It is best to write in expression marks as you work them out, to avoid forgetting. At this stage the conductor knows exactly how the perfomance should sound. The next step it to learn how to make it sound that way. Practise conducting before a mirror, checking to see that the movements you make are likely to produce the desired result. The size of the beat in general must agree with the speed and loudness you expect. Where changes in tempo or dynamics occur, the beat must be made to change smoothly but definitely. Left hand movements must be practised until they appear natural and can be done with ease. Every motion to be made must be decided upon beforehand and repeated until its execution requires no conscious effort. Then, when the music and the technique are so deeply imbedded in the memory that they can be trusted to take care of themselves, the conductor can concentrate upon the emotion that is called up by the words and the music. The mood induced in the conductor by so concentrating produces appropriate facial expressions, and the chorus, secing these, is inspired to sing in a manner that will convey to the listeners the mood the conductor feels. When a song is thus thoroughly learned, it is ready for presentation to the chorus. | Color in i (Continued from page 228) or yellow-greens-and-blue-greens are the combinations hardest to use. Avoid too many tones of the same color (one or two are best), or too many different color tones of the same intensity. Confine furnishings to medium tones and accessories to bright colors to avoid the disturbing effect of too strong or too many colors (3). Bright colors should be used in furnishings only when balance can be kept. Limit color in rooms to not more than three or four tones at the most. It is best to confine large spaces to off-white, pale tints, or "killed" colors (colors that have been grayed?hard to use without 'professional help). In selecting color combinations, there are two associated family groups that go very well together but that require some knowledge and experience to intermix successfully. Orange, yellow, and green together with the countless related tans, tusts, limes, olive, browns, and yellow-greens with white make one group; red, blue, and purple with pinks, wines, mauves, grays, and white make the other. In the first group such combinations as yellow, white, and chartreuse; brown, white, and yellow; pale green, gold, and rust are easy examples. In the second group, wine, pink and white; red and white, blue and white, or red, blue, and white; mauve, wine, and white are easily handled. Intermixture combinations such as pink and brown; powder blue and_ yellow; wine, yellow, and white; red, green (Coritinued on page 282) ASK for FREE FULLER Aids to BEAUTIFICATION See the Fuller Paint Dealer in your community for a wealth of printed and illustrated suggestions on beautifying the home with PAINTS and WALLPAPERS. The profusion of bright colors and designs for your walls are as lovely as the springtide! You get only the highest quality when you choose FULLER products. W. P. FULLER CO. Salt Lake and Ogden FULLER PAINTS When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Color-Style Your Home Bennett's Property Life Insurance, Paints Bennett?s 66 exclusive shades and tints permit every desired effect in decoration without costly mixing. You get exactly the color you want. Ask for the FREE large color chips. BENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO. Salt Lake City Dealers throughout the Intermountain country ELECTRICITY IS Cheap COMBINATION OFFER! $17 ALUMINUM SET with purchase of new ELECTRIC RANGE SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Color in the Home (Continued from page 281) and white; red, green, and yellow are more novel and modern but harder to handle. The lists of color combinations that are described didactically as good or bad dyads, triads, and tetrads have always seemed confusing to me. Should we say that yellow, pale green, and brown were a good triad, your first thought would be, "How pale is pale green? What yellow... What brown should I use?" Good judgment developed through study and keen observation or through professional help is needed to obtain better than average results. And since some professional advice is based on what they have to sell, which is usually what manufacturers feel will sell best and not always what is most artistic, the problem in the final analysis is a personal one of study and observation. Then your own individuality and personality are expressed, and your house becomes much more your home. ?The Relief Society Song Book is now ready The Price is 85c Per Copy?Post Paid Address Orders to GENERAL OFFICE 28 Bishops Building Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Milk?for Sound Teeth A child's teeth begin to develop before he is born. At birth these first teeth are fully formed in the jaw. Previous to birth the mother is the sole source of food for her baby. Her diet must protect her own teeth and build those of her child. A quart of milk every day, liberal amounts of fruits and vegetables, together with a supply of sunshine vitamin D, supply excellent tooth-building materials. Teeth are a living part of the body, and like all other parts they depend upon food for growth and strength. Contrary to former theories, there is now convincing evidence that an adult's teeth may be made and kept strong and sound by proper diet even though they have previously shown definite signs of deterioration. It is evident that tooth-building material is needed throughout the entire period from birth to mature life. Milk is richer than any other food in tooth-building materials, calcium and phosphorus. 'The sunshine vitamin D with which some milk is enriched enables the body to make better and mote complete use of those food substances supplied by milk. You'll enjoy the finer flavor of Cloverleaf Irradiated Vitamin D Milk. Everyone ees the benefit of its extra rich vitamin D which. Helps to build and maintain sound, even teeth and straight, strong bones. It costs no more than ordinary milk Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS of Cornell University. Director. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SUMMER SESSION June 10?July 19?July 22?August 16 RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS: Your attention is called to courses by Howard W. Odum, Director, School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. An eminent authority on social problems; and to courses by Hazel Peterson and H. H. Frost. Jr. In the Department of Sociology and Social Work. Six weeks courses will also be offered by Henry Neumann in Social and Civic Education and Ethics and by Margaret S. Chaney in Nutrition. Courses may be taken with or without credit. Institute of Education for Family Life, June 17-21 inclusive. Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University Director. For a copy of the Bulletin, address: The President, University of Utah. When 'Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 284 From Seed Packets to Blossoming Slowers (Continued from page 220) These should be removed as soon as germination takes place?which will require from one to two weeks?for the young plants quickly grow tall and are weak if kept covered. The soil should be stirred and cultivated around each plant as soon as they begin to grow. This should continue until the plants spread out and cover the bare ground. Another mulch of the old fertilizer applied on the surface after the plants are growing will help to stimulate rapid growth as well as produce large, well-colored flowers, and will also be a factoi in conserving moisture. We might go on and on telling how this simple garden could be developed by the addition of a few permanent perennials and bulbs, but then it could not be classed as a garden made entirely from a few packets of seeds. As it is, the planting just described is guaranteed to produce enough color and beauty to repay a hundred fold the labor and expense involved, and to convert any family to an awareness of the joys of a garden of blossoming flowers. ?God made the flowers to beautify the earth, And cheer man?s careful mood; And he is happiest who has power To gather wisdom from a flower, And wake his heart in every hour To pleasant gratitude.? -Wordsworth White Rose (continued from page 274). Memories of a small, cuddly baby; a sturdy lad; a growing man, a man glad and happy to do God?s work. The fragrance of white roses swept around her like a soft, sweet cape. She reached out a small, fragile hand and gathered a perfect bud. Her small, white head was high as David and Connie passed going back to their drab, brown house. They spoke, gently, kindly, and though they smiled, Hester knew they were sorry for her. She carried the rose inside and closed the door. There, standing suddenly very still and quiet in the midst of plenty and luxury, Hester Dean knew, with a poignant pain in her heart, how poor she really was. Enjoy the Thrill & Flowers-Shrubs?Trees Get our acclimated Mountain Grown Tested Seeds and Planting Materials. Assortment for your choosing. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1940 A wonderful Free New 1940 Garden Book For Full Details Salt Lake City and Centerville, Utah Salt Lake City and Centreville, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SPECIAL VALUES For CONFERENCE VISITORS Outstanding values in L. D. S. Literature, general books, and high grade merchandise are offered at the Deseret Book Company during Conference Week. While you are attending Conference be sure to visit this friendly Book Store and take advantage of the many attractive bargains. Our Gift Shop is famous for its thousand and one delightful gifts and novelties. We also have Greeting Cards for every occasion. Also a full line of Moving Picture Equipment, Radios, Leather Goods, Fountain Pens, Pencils, Stationery, etc. We are headquarters for all Church Literature and carry the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain Region. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah "L. D. S. Training Pays!" THE L.D.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information" L.D.S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH Completely Wholesome ?and So Different! Take Home a Loaf Next Time You Shop! Fisher: DUTCH BREAD When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine LIFE INSURANCE Of course he's too young to figure it out for himself... But if he could, he'd probably wonder if his dad was protecting his future. He'd like to feel that no matter what happened ? his "bread and butter," his mother's time to "bring him up" BENEFICIAL INSURANCE Heber J.. Grent, Pres. ? properly, and his education, were all properly provided for through life insurance protection.... While it is fresh in your mind, consult a Beneficial Life Insurance agent. He can render valuable advice and assistance to your life insurance program. BENFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE COVER 
