Opportunity Is Calling
Calling your attention to the beginning of another successful school year at your University:
DATES FOR REGISTRATION
Sept. 25: English and Psychological Examinations
Sept.26: Engineering Examination
Sept. 26-27: Special Instruction and Registration of Freshmen
Sept. 30: Registration of Sophomores and Upper Division
Write for Catalog?Address the President
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
Oct. 1: Regular Class Work Begins
NOW Is The Time To Order Your BOOKS for RELIEF SOCIETY Literary Course?1940-41
ADAM BEDE By George Eliot
A choice is offered of this book in two editions but only one is necessary to buy. We recommend (b) edition.
(a) Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers Regular Price $1.00 Special Relief Society Price .80.
(b) The Best known Novels of George Eliot. Modern Library, Inc., which includes four novels of George Eliot in one book: Adam Bede, Silas Marner, The Mill on the Floss, Romola
This is the recommended book. Regular Price..$1.25 Special Relief Society Price?$1.13
THE TREE OF LIBERTY By Elizabeth Page Price........$2.00
The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price at this time.
THE SONG OF YEARS By Bess Streeter Aldrich Regular Price?$2.50 Special Relief Society Price?.$2.00
We also have copies of Literary Course Books of previous years, for those who wish to complete their libraries.
Deseret Book Company
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Erected as a tribute to our Nation's Constitution and flag. By the school children of Salt Lake City.
The Cover
The statue pictured on the cover of this issue of the Magazine is located on the City and County Building grounds, Salt Lake City, Utah. It was erected through contributions of the school children assisted by the Board of Education, as a tribute to our Nation's Constitution and flag. It is the work of the sculptor Torlief S. Knaphus, and was dedicated June 4, 1937.
Now is the Time...
To subscribe for your own family and as gifts for your friends. An attractive new gift card will be mailed with each gift subscription upon request.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE?$1.00 A YEAR
Index To Advertisers
Fisher Master Bakers
Larkin Mortuary Inside Back Cover
L. D.S. Business College Inside Back Cover
Mountain Fuel Supply Co Inside Back Cover
Relief Society Song Book 577
Telex 577
Z. C. M. I Outside Back Cover
WAS DEAFENED But Now I Can HEAR Everything with the New TELEX HIGH FIDELITY Vacuum Tube-Crystal HEARING
I have been deaf for 25 years, but now with my TELEX hearing aid I am now able to hear group conversations, church services, the radio, or at distances just as well as any normal hearing person.
The TELEX aids where other aids have failed
Try TELEX Today.., and HEAR!
FREE Hearing Test.. With the new TELEX?Call or Write
TELEX HEARING AID SERVICE
511 McIntyre Bldg. Salt Lake City 5-4036
Relief Society Song Book Is Now Ready?The Price is 85c Per Copy?Post Paid
Address Orders to GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building?Salt Lake City
A Product of The Fisher Master Bakers
It's Delicious It's Different It's Wholesome
DUTCH BREAD
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII SEPTEMBER, 1940 No. 9
Contents
Special Features
A Lincoln Prayer 577
Frontispiece—Liberty Bell 578
"A More Perfect Union" Vesta P. Crawford 579
The Blessing of Constitutional Government Elder Don B. Colton 584
This Year It's the Straight and Narrow Silhouette Emily Smith Stewart 595
Some Persian Poets You Will Like Estelle S. Harris 599
Fiction
Home of the Brave Christie Lund Coles 589
We Find America Mary E Knowles 609
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 11) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 620
General Features
Some Literary Friends ("The Last Lesson") Florence Ivins Hyde 605
The Sunny Side of the Hill (Under Skies of Blue) Lella Marler Hoggan 614
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 617
Editorial:
A Land of Liberty 618
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 626
Music Department (Ready for Rehearsal?) 634
Excerpts from Discourses of Brigham Young Selected by Marianne C. Sharp 635
Night Jane Romney Crawford 649
Lessons
Theology—A Practical Religion—Brigham Young 636
Visiting Teacher—Divisions of Priesthood—The Melchizedek Priesthood 640
Work and Business—Your Teeth and Bones 641
Literature—Adam Bede 643
Mission—The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith 646
Poetry
A Prayer of Thanks Wyroa Hansen 588
These Are America Alice Morrey Bailey 594
Who? Grace M. Candland 604
My Mother's Crochet Olive W. Burt 608
Youth Faces Tomorrow Alice L. Eddy 613
Song of Night Caravene Gillies 625
Autumn Beatrice E. Linford 633
Transition Alberta H. Christensen 650
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
The Magazine assumes no responsibility for the return of unsolicited manuscripts unless postage is enclosed by the contributor for their return.
A Lincoln Prayer
From 'Abe Lincoln in Illinois," by Robert E. Sherwood*
O GOD, the Father of all living, I ask you to look with gentle mercy upon this little boy who is here, lying sick in this covered wagon. His people are traveling far to seek a new home in the wilderness, to do your work, God, to make this earth a good place for your children to live in. They can see clearly where they are going, and they're not afraid to face the things that lie along the way. I humbly beg you not to take their child from them. Grant him the freedom of life. Do not condemn him to the imprisonment of death. Do not deny him his birthright. Let him know the sight of great plains and high mountains, of green valleys and wide rivers; for this little boy is an American, and these things belong to him and he to them. Spare him, that he too may strive for the ideals for which his fathers have labored so faithfully and so long. Spare him and give him his father's strength. Give us all strength, O God, to do the work that is before us. I ask you this favor in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ, who died upon the cross to set men free. Amen.
*Courtesy Charles Scribner's Sons.
"... Proclaim liberty throughout the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."—(Lev. 25:10.)
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII SEPTEMBER, 1940 No. 9
"A More Perfect Union"
Vesta P. Crawford
"We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."
ONE hundred and fifty-three years ago this September, the people of the United States of America raised a new standard to the world. Two words they had in mind—LIBERTY and UNION—two guiding words, which every patriot spoke with hope and reverence. Liberty for each individual, a union of commonwealths to work out mutual problems through the cooperation of a "Parliament of Concord." The paths of history are long, and the road into the past grows dim when the shadows of the years rest upon it. Yet it is possible for us to journey along the corridors of the long ago and see the great illumination of a beacon set high in the universe of the nations. It is September in the year 1787. Mellow tints of autumn and the amber patterns of leaves rest upon the two rivers that guard the "City of Brotherly Love." Philadelphia, a city that grew up with the nation, awaits with great anxiety to hear what the delegates to the Constitutional Convention have done. It is rumored through the city that they have drafted a new "testament of liberty" to guide America, a document that is not yet signed. Eager crowds throng Chestnut Street in front of Independence Hall where the committee has labored in secret sessions for four months. The historic walls of the old Pennsylvania State House have seen events that will never be forgotten wherever free men dwell. The walls have heard voices raised in defense of the inalienable rights of men. Here, since 1736, the legislative assemblies of Pennsylvania have convened. Here, in 1775, the Continental Congress appointed George Washington Commander-in-Chief of the Army. Here, the Declaration of Independence was signed with eternal words—"all men are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights... That to secure these rights governments are instituted among men." Here, in this "Cradle of Liberty," a name was given to the new nation—"The United States of America." Here, the Star Spangled Banner, in the year 1777, was
INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA (Scene of the proclamation of the Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776 and the meeting place of the Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention)
acclaimed as the standard of the Union. LET us enter the room quietly and see the representatives of the people at work; let us see them as they complete the final words of the Constitution of the United States. If all the deputies are present, there will be fifty-five men here. All the states except Rhode Island are represented. They sit quietly and thoughtfully in their great carved chairs. Near the back of the high-ceilinged room Benjamin Franklin stands and looks at his fellow Americans. Something has bothered him all during this convention—an item of little intrinsic significance, and yet the learned Doctor Franklin believes that it may be an emblem of something. On the back of George Washington's great armchair there is a carving of the sun with a halo of light around it. In spite of all his wisdom, Franklin cannot figure out to his own satisfaction whether this
580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
"A MORE PERFECT UNION"
is a rising or a setting sun. Artists never can distinguish between dawn and sunset. Strange people, artists. A setting sun, or a rising sun... Benjamin Franklin is nearly eighty-two years old. The son of a poor candle-maker, he has known hard work and adversity. He has worn ragged clothes, and many times he has been hungry. But those early days of struggle are long passed. Most prominent of the men of Pennsylvania, Franklin is a figure of dignity and strength. He has been honored for his work as Postmaster General of the new Union; largely through his efforts the Revolution was financed. He is the most learned man in America; he has been honored by foreign scientific societies. He has been called "the greatest philosopher of the present age." He has talked with kings and deported himself as the most kingly man of all. It has been said of him: "The very heavens obey him and the clouds yield up their lightning to be imprisoned in his rod." The wisdom of years glows upon the face of Benjamin Franklin. His mind is unclouded, his thoughts clear, his words measured, deep and rich. Again he looks at the carving on the back of Washington's armchair. Then he sees that Washington sits with his head bowed on his hands. He looks tired, weary of the burdens he has borne for his country. George Washington, the best loved man in America, is fifty-five years old. He has served the colonies as surveyor, as a soldier on the frontier, as a colonel under the British General Braddock. He has long loved his beautiful estate, Mt. Ver-
581
non, on the banks of the Potomac, and there he has gone for the short intervals of peace and rest his countrymen have allowed him. He has seen flags waved before him and flowers strewn along his path. He has stood beneath an ancient oak tree and accepted command of the colonial armies. He has felt the bitter winds of Valley Forge, and his boats have plowed through rivers of ice. He has seen his soldiers ragged, hungry, despairing. He has walked among them speaking words of cheer, and he has prayed with them in the darkness of winter nights. He has seen the colonies win their struggle for independence and reach out for larger unity and greater strength. And now in this convention where the representatives of the states are assembled, George Washington, the presiding officer, is regarded as a man of unselfish principles, unbiased judgment, unfailing loyalty. He does not know, and no man in the assembly can know, the ways of the future — but George Washington will be the first President of the new nation. He will shape American destiny under the very Constitution that he will this day sign. In after years, he shall be remembered for the strength of his manhood and the splendor of his patriotism. It shall be said of him: "The virtues of this man will continue to animate the remotest ages. He shall be called the first citizen of the world." All this in time to come. Perhaps Benjamin Franklin, more than any man in this assembly, appreciates the austere dignity, the high magnitude of George Washington's unlimited service to America. Franklin reviews again, silently, all that he has learned of liberty, and how it came to the New World. He thinks of the Mayflower Compact. How charged with fate that moment must have been when the Pilgrim Fathers signed a written document in Provincetown Harbor one month before they set foot upon the shores of America... "to frame such juste and equall laws... As shall be thought most meete... For the generall good.... " Franklin thinks of the colonies and their charters and their codes of law. He thinks of the beginnings of union, the meetings of the Continental Congress, the drafting of the Articles of Confederation, the growth and the upward reaching of the men who wished first for liberty and then for union.
THE Articles of Confederation had called for "perpetual union," but they had not supplied the framework for achieving this high degree of cooperation. They had outlined a central government too weak for action, and they had not provided for a real executive. But this convention of 1787, which at first had met to revise the Articles of Confederation, has now written a new document, a Constitution which shall be "the supreme law of the land." Not without conflict, not without despair, not without a weighing of values, not without a broad liberality of ideas, has this Constitution been achieved. Not without prayer. Benjamin Franklin remembers well the long hours of discussion, the ebbing of hope, the writing and re-writing, the changing, the additions and subtractions, that have been made to perfect the constitutional testament. He thinks of the young Alexander Hamilton and his work in the convention. Alexander Hamilton, now only thirty years old, early in life was deprived of parental care and forced to make his way alone. He earned his own money for attending King's College and learned the intricacies of the law and the instruments that guide the destinies of individuals, the high resolve of nations. Hamilton became a lieutenant colonel on General Washington's staff and served four years as his aide and confidential secretary. The General became warmly attached to this frail-looking young man whose slender strength was far more dependable than it looked. Hamilton has served in the Continental Congress, and now he represents New York State in this assembly of free people. He is a small, lean man with deep violet eyes and reddish brown hair. He is young, but his words carry the power of a brilliant mind. Profoundly he shapes the form and purpose of the Constitution. Hamilton does not know the ways of the future—but he will become Secretary of the Treasury in the cabinet of President Washington; he will lay the basis for the financial structure of the United States. Young men and old men. It is not a man's age, but the qualities of his mind, the steadfastness of his character, that give him ability and the desire to serve his country. Once more Benjamin Franklin looks over the assembly of the patriots, and his eyes center on a delegate only six years older than Hamilton. This young man is James Madi-
582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
"A MORE PERFECT UNION"
son. "The Great Little Madison," he is called. He is the "Master Mind" of this convention. One day he shall be called the "Father of the Constitution." He is a pale, thin man, below average height, but his face bears a great illumination. Once he studied for the ministry but later changed his profession to law and politics. He is the author of the "Virginia Plan," which has been the starting point for the deliberations of the convention. James Madison will be the fourth President of the United States, and his writings explaining and defending the Constitution will be a guide for generations of Americans. At the very beginning of the sessions, in May, 1787, Madison declared solemnly: "Now we must decide forever the fate of Republican government." And James Wilson, the able lawyer delegate from Pennsylvania, announced with all seriousness: "This is the first instance of a people assembled to weigh deliberately and calmly and to decide leisurely and peaceably upon the form of government by which they will bind themselves and their posterity."
THE Constitution has been called "A New Roof for America." There was a long discussion upon the relative rights and duties of the states and the central government. Washington believed in compromise of the conflicting interests. "Let us raise a standard," he declared, "to which the wise and honest can repair."
583
So it was through the days of that summer. Constant effort, continued self-control, ever an attempt to draft principles of government which would be invincible enough for permanency and yet pliable enough to meet national emergencies. When the final day came and the document was ready for the signatures, Benjamin Franklin slowly unfolded a paper and read in measured tones: "I doubt whether any Convention we can obtain may be able to make a better Constitution. It... Astonishes me... To find this system approaching so near perfection as it does...." Then he watched the men as they signed. He walked slowly toward the front of the room and stood behind Washington's chair. He watched the curves of the letters as Washington wrote his name — "George Washington, President and Deputy from Virginia.". It was then that Benjamin Franklin felt that the problem which had been troubling him all summer was solved—that carved sun on the back of the chair. It was a rising sun. He knew it. He told the other delegates how sure he was. "I have the happiness to know that it is a rising, not a setting sun." A radiance seems to fill the room. The delegates rise from their chairs. George Washington stands with the precious document in his hands. His eyes seem to look forward along the future years when the Constitution shall stand as a beacon for Americans in the ages that shall come.
The Blessing of Constitutional Government
Elder Don B. Colton
AMERICAN people live under the most complex of all forms of government; that is, a federal republic. We are, at once, citizens of a sovereign nation and also of a sovereign state. One English political scientist has said, "There are two loyalties, two patriotisms. There are two governments covering the same ground, commanding with equally direct authority the obedience of the same citizen." Complicated as it seems, it may be simple if studied and understood. As each "Constitution Day" draws near, we should examine carefully the basic law under which we live. I shall consider in this article more particularly some phases of the Federal Constitution. England has, and France also until recently, a simple non-federal or centralized government. "The will of the British Parliament is the supreme law of the kingdom." To understand fully our complex federal government, one must know how the early English colonies developed into American states, and how they were finally welded into a union. A separate charter or grant was given to each of the thirteen colonies settled along the Atlantic seaboard from Canada to Florida. Sometimes the grant was to an individual, sometimes to a company, and again, to a group of people. The governments varied greatly. Not all of the governors were appointed by the Crown. A few of the colonies were almost entirely self-governed. The Declaration of Independence declared against the mother country and affirmed that, "these united colonies are and of right ought to be free and independent states." The colonies soon learned, however, that they were too weak to stand alone and that the situation demanded union. The states were extremely jealous of their sovereignty. Their problem was to maintain their independence and yet acquire strength by unity. They tried first a government under the Articles of Confederation, but it was entirely inadequate. The Constitution was finally adopted and welded the states into a nation in 1789. It must always be borne in mind that the state was the original sovereign and was independent. The work of forming a union was the surrender voluntarily of powers which had been exercised by a state completely sovereign within itself. Therefore, the federal government was one of delegated authority. The Constitution provided but one way by which further powers could be delegated to the federal government —by amendment ratified by the people of the several states. It must be remembered that at the beginning of the trouble with Great Britain there was no intention of breaking away entirely. They did not revolt against law but against the tyranny of being deprived of the blessings guaranteed them by law. Their forefathers had compelled King John at Runnymede to grant
FOUR SHEETS OF SHEEPSKIN PARCHMENT containing the Supreme Law of the Land, repose in the glass case in the Library of Congress. Above, the Constitution of the United States.
586
them certain fundamental rights embodied in the Magna Charta. These guarantees were being violated by a tyrant who had arrogated, gradually, powers unto himself. The colonies were contending for rights under English law, either written or under the Common Law. They petitioned many times for redress, but the petitions were scornfully rejected. The representatives of the people waited until all hope of peace was gone. The people demanded redress. The Congress was compelled to act. It has been rightfully said, "The Declaration of Independence contains the ideal of American liberty and the conception of the origin and purpose of human government. The Constitution sets up the machinery by which these ideals are to be attained." The central government—if such it may be called—set up by the colonies was a weak one. In the Congress, each colony had but one vote, irrespective of its size. The government was a mere league where mutual problems could be considered, but with little or no power to enforce its decrees. The states were drifting apart; jealousies arose between them, and chaos seemed inevitable.
IT was not an easy thing to "ordain and establish" the Constitution of the United States. It was the work of many months. Careful and, in many instances, prayerful men worked long and earnestly in drawing up that great document. It required great skill and inspiration to prepare it and secure its ratification. It was one of the world's great accomplishments. The Constitutional Convention, which assembled in May, 1787, de-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
liberated four months. On September 17, 1787, the document was completed and signed by delegates from twelve states. Rhode Island did not participate in the convention. We are all familiar with Joseph Smith's statement: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun." The system of checks and balances set up in the Constitution is the only thing which saved it. It never would have been ratified had there not been three independent, equal, coordinate branches of government. It was especially designed so that the Executive Department should not arrogate to itself powers never intended to be given. Until we study recent developments in Europe, we cannot appreciate the inspiration and foresight back of the provisions calling for checks and balances. Lack of security and economic problems troubled the framers of the Constitution and, indeed, the people themselves, just as they have worried the peoples of Europe during the last two decades. It will not be denied that the autocrats now ruling most of Europe arose to power through promises of economic security. Hungry people will do almost anything for food. Men came with alluring promises and asked for temporary power. The result has been that the people have surrendered all that heroes have fought and died for during the last thousand years. Liberty of speech, freedom of the press, and even the
THE BLESSING OF CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT
right to worship God have gone from those lands. A few men have turned back the pages of history five hundred years simply for the hideous monster of tyranny and oppression to raise its awful head. Shall the American people ever be caught off guard and allow the same conditions to be brought about here? The matter of concentrating power in one man has always been displeasing to the Lord because of the temptation to abuse that power. Read I Samuel, Chapter 8, and you will find the danger of concentrated power clearly pointed out. I quote only a few verses: "And said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. Now, therefore, hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. And the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city." Again, the Lord speaking to the Nephites said: "Now I say unto you, that because all men are not just it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you. For behold, how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed, yea,
587
and what great destruction!" (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 29:16-17) Nor is the danger alone in concentrating power in the Executive. Congress has frequently passed laws which have violated the "inalienable rights" mentioned in the Declaration of Independence and set forth in the first ten amendments to the Constitution. Congress has tried to provide a religious test for holding office; it has attempted to deprive persons accused of crime of the sacred right of trial by jury, and has attempted to deprive citizens of property without just compensation. Many other instances of unconstitutional laws could be cited. The great bulwark of our liberty in times past has been our Supreme Court. It has been necessary, also, at times, through the demands of the people, to check the Courts. Our safety lies in keeping, so far as possible, the powers of government in the hands of thoughtful people. I can do no better than quote from a statement issued by the Committee on American Citizenship of the American Bar Association: "Whether you have your citizenship like St. Paul, by right of birth, or acquire it by naturalization, it is not sufficient that you merely obey the law and commit no offense against it. That is important, but the franchise, the right to vote, is the most sacred of all privileges under our Constitution; it is the right protective of all others; armed with it you safeguard all others, because by your vote you freely choose those who rule you and by delegation make your own laws. If you fail to exercise this privilege, you are a recreant to your citizenship. Forty years ago four-fifths of all the voters went to the polls; in 1924 less than one-half of them, forty-nine per cent, exercised their right to vote. As a result, every office holder is chosen by a minority of the voters; in some states as low as five per cent of all the voters. In the cities the 'better element,' as it calls itself, stays away from the polls, and then rails bitterly at the result. You have no right to criticise your Government or its Agents unless you take your part in choosing them. This is the most sacred duty of citizenship."
THE brilliant Henry W. Grady once said, "The man who kindles the fire on the hearth-stone of an honest and righteous home, burns the best incense to liberty. He does not love mankind less who loves his neighbor more. Exalt the citizen. As the state is the unit of Government, he is the unit of the state. Teach him that his home is his castle, and his sovereignty rests beneath his hat. Make him self-respecting, self-reliant and responsible. Let him lean on the state for nothing that his own arm can do, and on the Government for nothing that his state can do. Let him cultivate independence to the point of sacrifice, and learn that humble things with unbartered liberty are better than splendors bought with its price." The issues of the cruel and terrible wars now being fought with such ferocity are two-fold: shall the people be subject to a one-man government, or shall the sacred rights of free people be kept in the hands of thoughtful and, I hope, prayerful citizens? Which do we prefer, for instance, the peaceful judgment of the Supreme Court, civil war, or possible dissolution of the Union? The answer lies with the people. The experience of the ages clearly points to one course as the only safe one. Let there be written laws, understood and obeyed by an enlightened electorate, and men chosen who will execute those laws. The supreme law, the Constitution, carefully studied, understood and obeyed, leads to safety, happiness and prosperity. Let us have a government of laws—not of men. Let this, the American continent, be an ensign to all the world. The people are not going to have one-man rule even though such a government for the time being may be more efficient. In these days of strife and turmoil, let us hope that every citizen will rededicate himself to the task of securing honest and efficient government, always remembering that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." Let us know the basic law of the land. Let September 17 take on a new meaning, that liberty and freedom shall have a new birth. The government given us on that day in 1787 shall be ours forever if we are worthy to possess it in righteousness.
A PRAYER OF THANKS
Wyroa Hansen
For the prairie land and mountain sod, For flowers patterned on the hill, Where plodding feet of pioneers trod The soil their hands did till—
O God, we offer thanks to Thee For everything we share, For life and love and liberty And homes of free men there.
588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
Home of the Brave
Christie Lund Coles
EULALIE JANSON breathed deeply and braced herself against the porch rail. The really hard thing to do now was to go up these stairs, into the dingy apartment, to meet the eyes of her mother, her father, and younger brother. At the office, it had been easy to smile, to pretend, to assume an air of "everything's all right." But here, her act was just that—an act. These who loved her could see through her assurance, because there really wasn't any assurance. She knew and they knew how conditions were. There weren't enough jobs to go around. Last year Father had lost his job; Jim had had to quit school. They were both doing odd jobs now whereever they could find them. Oh, the irony of it, when Father was one of the best cabinet makers in the entire city. She was up the steps now, and once more she sighed deeply, threw back her shoulders and opened the scuffed, ugly door. There was no opportunity to break the news until after the family had eaten their evening meal and were seated in the living room—her father with the help-wanted section of the evening paper; her mother with some lace she was crocheting. She had attempted to read the society section, but her thoughts had been far off. She had dropped the paper to the floor and was staring absently into space when her mother said: "What is it, Lalie? What is the matter?" "Why.... Nothing," she tried to assure them, "nothing, really." But her mother was beside her, insisting, "You're sick. You were pale when you came in. Where does it hurt?" She smiled a little at that, shook her head, "Mother, I'm not ill. I'm just... Tired." Her father interposed with, "They've been working you too hard. They're nothing but slave drivers, and you're little more than a child." She bit her lip, but the words came out almost hysterically, "Well, they won't be working me too hard any longer. I got my notice tonight. I'm fired... Through." "But why? Why? Haven't you done good work?" questioned her father. "I've done the best I could. There was talk that it was a relative of the vice-president who was going to take my place. But I doubt if that's true. They're just cutting down...." But during the sleepless night it became increasingly easy to believe that a relative was to take her place, and it made a strange and powerful bitterness rise within her. The next day, when she was drying dishes for her mother, she said bitterly, thoughtlessly, "So this is your America. Land of equality! Everyone equal, humph! It's a land of class distinction, favoritism, snobs, money... " Her mother's thin, lined face flushed, her hands paused half-way out of the soapy water, a look of incredulity crossed her eyes. She said:
590
"Eulalie, how can you say such things? This is your country! You should be so proud, so proud." "What do you mean, proud? Not when my country isn't doing right by me. There are things that need changing here, and I'm going to help change them." "What do you mean?" "You'll see." Both women were silent until the dishes had been put carefully in their places and the kitchen tidied up. Then Eulalie started toward her bedroom, and her mother said, "Wait, come with me into the parlor. Let's talk this over, shall we?" The girl shrugged, "There really isn't anything to say, is there?" "Yes, I think there is." When they were seated, Mrs. Janson picked at the folds of her gingham dress nervously before she began. She moistened her lips. "You see, my dear, there are many things I've never told you, things that lie deep within my heart. You... You modern young people always seem so sure of yourselves, so embarrassed when we speak of sentimental things, but..." she paused briefly, sighed, "but I must tell you these things now. When you speak lightly of your country, it is almost as if you struck me. It means so much to me. I gave up my home, my family, my friends, all—to come to America." "I know that, Mother." "Yes, but you don't know that my love for this new country and my faith in it had to replace all those things. But here we have had opportunities we would never have had in the Old Country. Here we have made friends with many fine people. We are looked up to at church; we vote; we help say what is best for us.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
We have so many conveniences— lights, gas, and warm water. Even the better classes don't have so much there." "Of course, Mother, but there is so much to have here. Everyone could be free of all worry, could be well-off..." "A little worry doesn't hurt. If everything was easy, we wouldn't appreciate anything." "Oh, you don't understand." "Maybe I don't. But I wish you would try to understand how I feel. When you were born, I thought, 'She is an American, not just an adopted child as I am. This is her own country, her heritage!' Don't let anything cheapen that heritage — ever." Eulalie arose, then bent and kissed the older woman's forehead, "You're terribly sentimental, Mom, but I love you."
NEVERTHELESS, a few nights later, she visited a group of young people who had organized and were meeting in the basement of a lodge hall. Their ideas were similar to hers; they believed in making a better world, a finer America. She listened intently as several of the young people spoke, told of their constitution, their ambitions. One boy said, "We refuse to be the spawn of a nation that has forgotten us, neglected us, betrayed us. We must go forward and take our heritage— the wealth and security that is rightfully ours." After the meeting, she walked home with a copy of their constitution under her arm. Perhaps now she could make her folks understand what she meant. America as they had known it had been all right in
HOME OF THE BRAVE
their day; but now there were bigger needs, and how were they to come about except through the youth with vision? She said as much to her family when she arrived home, and her brother, two years younger than she, inquired tartly, "Yes, but are you sure these kids have the vision?" "Well, at least they don't sit back and say, 'All's right with the world.' " "I'm not sitting back, my girl, I'm busier than a cat on a tin roof, trying to find work enough to get me to school. And I'm not doing so bad either." Her father had not said anything but had read the copy of the constitution over carefully. When he had finished, he went over to a lovely desk which he had built, rubbed, carved himself, and took out a volume of United States history. Opening it to a dog-eared page, he handed it to Eulalie, saying, "I want you to read our Constitution. It isn't as radical as this— this other thing; but then, it was written with all the people in mind. It was written after weeks, yes, months of prayer and thought. Even when it was finished, the Bill of Rights was added. That gives every one an equal chance, a fair trial, the right to achieve and go forward as far as each of us is capable. God himself can give us no more." Eulalie drew her dark brows together thoughtfully, "But you don't understand. These young people, some of them, have never had a job. Perhaps they never will under the present system. Something has to be done or there will be revolution. The few can't have it all...." "Some things aren't right," agreed her mother, "but America will find
591
a way. We may have to pray—and pray hard. But the light will come." Her father nodded, "Yes, we have come a long way in righting social wrongs. We'll come out all right— not through rebellion and revolution, but rather, through faith and courage." "Oh, but Dad, look... You've had faith and courage. Where are you? You're an old man and you're beaten. It isn't because you can't work as good as you ever could. It's just that the system has ruled you out." An almost visible tremor seemed to pass through her father, and he drew himself to his full height as he said slowly, "I am a thousand times better off right now than I would ever, ever have been in the Old Country. The trouble with you young people is that you want the world handed to you on a silver platter, and you don't want to work for it." No one answered, and after a moment, he added, "And I'm not beaten. I had promise today of a job—an excellent one. I hadn't meant to tell you—yet." The controversy was forgotten in the family's sudden elation over his news. But when the others had retired to their beds, Eulalie sat with the volume of history and pored over the three-thousand-word Constitution of the United States. It was lofty and high-sounding, of course; but she was a little tired, and her eyes began to droop. As she lowered the book, a small clipping fell out upon the floor. She picked it up and looked at it. It was titled, America's Creed. It was brief, so she began to read the words: "I believe in the United States of America
592
as a Government of the people, by the people, for the people; whose just powers are derived from the consent of the governed; a democracy in a republic; a sovereign Nation of many sovereign States; a perfect union, one and inseparable; established upon those principles of freedom, equality, justice and humanity for which American patriots sacrificed their lives and fortunes. "I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it; to support its Constitution; to obey its laws; to respect its flag, and to defend it against all enemies." She held it between her fingers a few moments, then put her hands over her eyes, murmuring, "Oh, it isn't that I don't love my country. I do, I do! I'm sure every member of my group does, too."
THE next Friday, she persuaded her brother to go with her to the hall, so that he could better understand what they were doing, what they wanted. He was reluctant and skeptical, but said, "If you say its okay, it must be," and they walked hand in hand under the peaceful stars. The room smelled close and damp. Jim whispered to her, "Nobody could have a healthy attitude in such a place." She replied, "Hush!" A sallow-faced youth began a dramatic, intense discourse on "What's Wrong with America?" He began his enumeration of its ills, its weaknesses, its failures. He rose to a loud-pitched climax when he asked, "What chance has the blind, the deaf, the dumb? They're doomed— inextricably doomed..." Jim whispered to her, "Yeh. Like Helen Keller."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
He went on, "How are the Negroes discriminated against? They haven't a chance, except perhaps in the prize ring." Once more Jim whispered, "Poor Booker T. Washington and Marion Anderson." And he concluded, "But most of all, what about our own young people—you and I? Can we find work? NO. When there gets to be too many of us, they stir up a war and send us off to be killed so there will be more fat profits for the successful business man." Before she could stop him, Jim was on his feet, asking in a steely voice, "May I ask if you have looked for work?" When the other young man shrugged the question away as too ridiculous to answer, Jim looked about the group and went on, "I've been watching the want-ads for nearly two years. I've gone wherever I thought there might be a sign of work. I've sat for hours with other young people—waiting. But I might say, I've never seen one of you there. I don't think I ever will. You're content to spout off at the mouth, to discourage other decent, liberty-loving young people, to..." The chairman asked Jim to sit down, and Eulalie lowered her head under the many eyes turned upon them. Her face was flushed, yet she couldn't help feeling proud of Jim's courage and his sound convictions— proud of the strength and power of him. It was as it had always been with them. As children, she had discouraged him to fight; yet when he persisted, she ended by rooting for him. When they were older, she would be on the other side of the issue he was debating; yet always
HOME OF THE BRAVE
at the close, she was one hundred per cent with him. Though she wasn't entirely agreed now, she couldn't help feeling that he was one up on the sallow-faced youth standing defiantly, a little hesitantly now, before them. After the speech, they grouped about in a round-table discussion. Many crowded around Jim, eager for an argument, anxious to voice their views. One boy said, "I suppose you would contradict him on what he said of war, too?" Jim nodded, "Perhaps. You see I've got enough loyalty in me to stand back of the President of these United States. I've got enough faith to believe him when he says we aren't going into war unless we have to." "Yeah," said another, "unless we have to. I, for one, won't go even if we have to." Jim and Eulalie turned incredulous eyes upon him, simultaneously. Eulalie felt herself go weak. Jim asked, "Even if we were invaded?" The other youth answered casually, "Why should I? This life is all I've got. I don't intend to be shot down. They'll have to think up something better to do with us." Another would-be wit said sardonically, "You should regret that you have only one life to lose for your country. Isn't that the accepted tradition?" She felt Jim's fist clench dangerously, but she held to his arm tightly. Before he could move, she was on her feet talking rapidly, heatedly. "I'm ashamed of you," she said, facing the group, "ashamed. I entered this group thinking we stood for something fine and worthwhile. Perhaps some of the ideals were that. But you are meeting your problems —your frustrations—with a destructive and vindictive attitude. We're cowardly, all of us. We're failing our country when it needs us most. We speak of our country. What is it if it isn't us—you and I? It takes brave people to make a great country; it isn't only brave to die for one's country, but it is brave to live for it, to believe in it, to preserve it, and to defend it against all enemies." She realized suddenly that she had ended by quoting from America's Creed. No matter, she was suddenly inexpressibly moved by the words. She closed her eyes, and all in a brief moment she understood what it meant to be an American. She knew what her mother and father had felt when they first saw the stars and stripes floating against the sky. She would never see the flag again without the same pride and joy and humility. She knew what Washington felt when he drove his sick and wearied men through the snow and ice, while he secretly wept for them. She knew what the framers of the Constitution felt when they knelt to pray so that they would make no mistake. She knew what Lincoln felt when he walked the streets at midnight—alone and hated—and knew that America, the preservation and rightness of it, was what mattered. She knew what Francis Scott Key felt when he looked into the first rays of dawn, after a night of fearful waiting and wondering, and saw the flag untramelled and flying high against the sky. She wanted to go home and thank her mother and her father for having kept faith and for giving her her heritage. Later, she and Jim walked homeward again under the starlight. Whatever happened, the two of them 593 There were no words said, but each would always, somehow, be going understood. And she knew that forward with America. ——THESE ARE AMERICA Alice Morrey Bailey Truth rose in deep indignation At old-world irreverence to God, And made her way shining, triumphant To grow in this choice, virgin sod. Justice, long blinded, obstructed, Followed with measured, sure tread, Planted the seeds of achievement From which honor and glory are bred. Freedom, down-trodden and feeble, Flourished in growth, wide and strong, Burst into blossoms of beauty, Of art and of speech and of song. Liberty, bound and in shackles, Stepped from the dungeons, the night, Fed on the fruit of rebellion And cast off the chains in her might. These—and all they who love them— Swept with an unyielding urge, Driven in sore desperation Crossed the sea, surge upon surge These are the roots—deep, unshaking— Gripped in the mountains, the sand, Drinking the lakes and the rivers, Thrust in the soil of this land. ———— 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940 THIS YEAR IT'S THE MIGHT Straight and narrow SILHOUETTE Emily Smith Stewart FALL... Fine Fashions... Furs... And Fun! Maybe Fun? Maybe Work? It all depends on the amount of time you yielded to temptation and comfort and spurned your "foundation" during the steaming go days at go. During your weaker moments you probably used the aged bromide argument that "there's no one home but the children" and "no one will see me." Well, if you did, you are apt to be the owner of a figure greatly in need of control. If such is the case, be honest with yourself and your family. Admit your guilt, dig down deep into your hoarded budget and pry loose enough to buy the best corset you can find—and don't stint. Your foundation is the most important item in your wardrobe. Chalk the expense up to hot weather or weak will, just whichever you choose; but start the business of being well dressed from the foundation out. Your new corset should give you that longer, leaner look; a longer torso; give you that "pulled taffy" appearance; make your midriff slender and tapering. Being well dressed is an art; the acquiring of a flattering fashion-right wardrobe is an accomplishment. Haphazard dressing is costly and unattractive. Fashion is elusive. Your style is the dramatization of your own fine personality. Oh, Lovely Lady, be sure you amplify your own charm, your own good points, and be yourself. Choose from Fashion's gorgeous offerings a basic wardrobe to suit your needs. Decide on the type of clothes suited to your life. Select a basic color and build around that theme. A good costume—coat, suit or dress— should render valuable service for two seasons and, if well chosen, can be converted into many different costumes with simple changes of hat and access. This fall the narrow silhouette is back of it all. Any change you will see this season is derived from the movement to make the skirts narrewer. No one can dogmatically say that the narrow silhouette alone is going to control the situation, but it is asserted that it is a major influence in bringing forth new aspects of style types. The lay-out of fashion factors that are producing these types are apparent in the fall collections. Factors that produce width above the waist emphasize the narrowing skirt. Fashion inspiration must come from some definite source: The desire to re-create pictures of past periods—the mode of living, the psychology of the people — in terms of the contemporary scene. During 1914 to 1920, dresses literally hung on the figure. Little attention was paid to suitability or becomingness. Long, straight lines prevailed; skirts were straight with some fullness. Then pleats were introduced. In 1924 and 1926, shoulders were uncomfortably narrow, looked pinched and skimpy. Waist lines were still long and skirts quite full. In 1927, skirts dropped nearly to the ankle. In 1930, skirts rose a few inches, ending just below the calf. Dresses became softer, and sleeves carried the trimming. From 1930 to 1937, the change was gradual. Fashions became more sensible and wearable and, most important of all, more becoming to most women. The fall of 1939 staged a fashion revolution. Bustle backs made headlines and left just as quickly. Rounded hips and defined bust lines brought back the "hour glass" figure of an outmoded era. All this has been discarded. Now, fashion is concentrating on beauty and natural lines, producing a subtle sophistication which so aptly expresses the spirit of American women of this day and age. So today the hard impertinence of chic is out. You are to be charming and simply gowned. How wisely and how well depends on your skill in planning a wardrobe to flatter both your personality and ability. If a coat is to be the major item in your new wardrobe, decide if it is to be sport, untrimmed, casual, dress, fur-trimmed or fur. Mentally picture it with 596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940 the clothes you have ready for fall, and be sure its style and color will be fashion right and service right. Your hat, shoes, bag and gloves must match in color exactly; if your coat is black, your shoes, gloves, hat, and bag should also be black to be basically correct. If good fortune can permit you extra accessories, pick up the color of your dress in your gloves, bag or hat. To make one basic wardrobe serve as a background for many variations is a clever trick to have Dame Fashion perform for the talented and gifted woman. If a dress is to be your most important new acquisition, ponder well the type it should be—meditate on your social and business program, and plan to make your new dress fit your needs. Choose one that you can literally perform Alladin tricks with—one that in a twinkling of an eye will step from the purely business to the utterly feminine. Pack your wardrobe pouch with fashion wiles—a new glamour pin, a set of clips, a necklace, matching earrings and bracelet; costume rings are very new and smart. At a moment's notice be ready to awe your adoring family or astound your devoted husband with the magnitude of your fashion artifices. Black is top rating the color family for fall. There is renewed: interest in brown. The brown family is scheduled as second only to black for town coats and suits, silk dresses, millinery and shoes. Wool dresses, sports coats and suits are all expected to reflect the brown influence. The nutria shade, in particular, is indicated. A committee of 16 members of the Associated Merchandising Corporation places black first for formal coats and suits, estimating that 75 per cent of early fall clothes will be in black. Browns, represented by mink and nutria shades, rank second and are followed by wine, two greens and blue. For casual coats and suits — a grouping which includes reefer types —black is expected to account for 40 per cent of early designing appearances. Brown, Indian earth, wine red, two greens, and yarn-dye grey follow in the order mentioned. J}_—_ For sports coats and suits, naturals, beiges and covert tans are ranked first. The brown to Indian-earth STRAIGHT AND NARROW 597 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940 range comes next, followed by blues, greens, wines and reds, black-and-whites and greys. 'T'weeds, a fashion committee comments, will often be multicolored in plaids or stripes, running into colors similar to those indicated on the card for fleeces and monotones. In dress costumes, the committee places brown first, with blue-black green, and wine following. A note on the card indicates that wine is for better costumes only. For wool dresses, blue is placed first and is represented by a soldierblue shade and teal. Next come tan and chicory brown, olive green and a bright green, black, grey, bright red, rose, and a grape tone. In a note, the fashion committee points out that black wool dresses, although high style, will be seen more than they have been in previous seasons, especially in jerseys. Millinery colors are numerous on the 1940 fashion program, in spite of the fact that black is expected to account for 75 per cent of early selections. Colors are expected to come up in importance as the season progresses. Basic for millinery are black, chicory brown, bright wine, soldier blue, promenade green, wine, and grey. The high fashion shades include berry red, Indian Simplicity Pattern earth, gold, khaki green, beige, teal blue, | McCall Pattern No. 3412, and bright red. No. 3818, See By way of suggestion, if you personalize your own clothes by self-creation, two patterns are suggested that may be helpful in making the important decision of what to wear. Leather colors chosen by the style-conscious group for shoes, handbags and gloves emphasize the importance of black suede, with or without colored trims. After black, only two basic colors are shown—brown and wine. Best fashion authorities, commenting on color correlation of costumes and accessories, point out two major trends: One toward subtle harmonies and monotone costumes, and another toward either subtle or sharp contrasts in ensembles. The "match two" tule prevails for fashion coordination —shoes and bags, gloves and shoes, etc. If you are still "summery" in your mood, you will create or buy shortish sleeves; if you feel "forward-looking," you will have long ones. In any event, don't let the first cool days catch you "off-base"; make the transition from summer to autumn well groomed with confidence and charm. Some Persian Poets You Will Like Estelle S. Harris LIVING in Persia during the last year has given me an opportunity of learning something of the rich literature of this very interesting country, in which every person is something of a poet. I want to share with you a little of the pleasure I have found in becoming acquainted with the writings of a few of the many poets who, during the past thousand years, have built up a literature which is surpassed by that of few countries of the world. Probably in no country does its poetry enter into the lives of all the people more than in Persia. These, people may be unlettered in modern science, but they cannot be called unlearned, since they have a much better knowledge of their classics than the average American has of the masterpieces in his own language. On a recent trip we took, a fellow traveler recited poems by the hour, and he had at his finger-tips the main known facts about scores of poets. Occasionally one meets a person who can recite from memory as many as four thousand passages of poetry. I venture that almost any person you might stop on the street in Persia would be able to tell you something about Ferdowsi, Sa'di or Hafiz. The poetry of such a long period of time is known because of the fact that the language of Iran, or Persia, as it is more popularly known, has changed but little during a thousand years. This is not true of any other language. Even at' present the "Academy" is assigned the task of eliminating foreign words and restoring into general use words of Persian origin. How different it is with the English language; the poetry of one who wrote as late as Chaucer in the fourteenth century cannot be understood without special study. One writer has said: "To the Persian, his national poetry is what the Psalms were to Europe in the Middle Ages—-an incentive to action, a consolation in trouble." The muleteer driving his mules, the shepherd on the hillside, the digger of a well, or the office worker during his period of rest is fond of reciting popular and classical verse from the poets who have recorded tales of national heroism or expressed the wisdom of the ages and the passions of the human soul. ET us take a glimpse at some of these poets who are regarded so highly in the affections of all Persians and whose verses add enjoyment to the lives of all classes in this land where beauty is given place above utility. -The first is one of the greatest. His long life was devoted to recording in verse the heroic tales of his country. Most countries, at some time in their history, have produced an epic poem; Persia is no exception. Ferdowsi, who was born just about a thousand years ago, brought together in the great work Shahnamah a collection of stories and legends of all the Persian kings up to the Arab conquest in 636 A. D. This covers some 3600 years. Much of the story tells of the conflict between Iran and Turan, or Turkey, having many 600 things in common with the conflict between Greece and Troy, which is the subject of the better known classics. In the first part, the main characters are personified powers of good and evil, Urmuzd and Ahriman. The second part is devoted to the Shahs and other kings who are the heroes. One of the most familiar of the stories is that of Sohrab and Rustum which has been known to many of us through the poem of Matthew Arnold. This has been a required treading in some of the schools. Rustum is one of the great legendary national heroes of Persia. 'Teheran has a modern bronze statue of him killing a dragon. The Shahnamah story tells in very touching manner of the conflict of Rustum with his son Sohrab without either knowing the identity of the other. His horse, Rakush, was always a great aid in the contests and battles of his master, who was ever valiant in fighting for the king. Shah Mahmud was the patron of Ferdowsi during the thirty or more years he spent in writing the great epic; but due to some intrigue at court, he obtained the enmity of the poet, who expressed his feelings in satirical lines from which the following are taken: "O tree whereof the fruit is bitter, even if thou plantest it in the Garden of Paradise, And if at the time of watering, thou pourest on its roots nectar and fine honey from the River of Paradise, It will in the end give effect to its nature, and bring forth that same bitter fruit." We do not know a great deal about the life of Ferdowsi. He was born about 941 in Tus, a city in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940 northeast part of the country. Today his name is a household word, and his lofty verse is quoted in many homes. It is said that as his corpse was being taken for burial out of one gate of his native Tus a messenger arrived at another gate bringing restitution from the Shah who had been unjust to him. He is rated as the greatest poet of his age and one of the greatest of all ages according to some. His epic was written somewhat earlier than some of the great epics of other lands, as he finished his in 1010. For example, the Spanish epic of Cid dates back to 1140; the French Song of Roland back to the eleventh century, and the German Song of the Nibelungs was first written about 1200. The stories of all these epics before they were written were told and retold for many generations. If you like epics, you will enjoy Shahnamah. N the next few centuries after the great epic poet, Persia had a rapid succession of sweet singers. The one who is best known to the western world is Omar Khayyam whose Rubaiyat, translated by Fitzgerald, has been available to English readers for a generation. Which one of us has not delighted in these stately quatrains, and who has not tried to repeat the one about "A Book of Verses underneath the Bough." Khayyam, though best known in some foreign lands, is not regarded by Persia as her greatest poet. It was in other fields than poetry, such as mathematics and astronomy, that he made his greatest contribution. If you are not in too great a hurry, and if you are not looking for a plot but are satisfied with reading each SOME PERSIAN POETS YOU WILL LIKE verse for its own beauty, you will find pleasure in reading the Rubaiyat. This book is sold in any book store, a thing not true of the works of the other poets of Iran., Soon after Khayyam, Jelaluddin Rumi _ attracted attention by his verse. He claimed descent from Abubekr, father-in-law of Mohammed. He studied in Damascus and Aleppo and became a college teacher, gaining a reputation for his learning as well as for his religious devotion. His interest was in getting people to worship, and he thought they "might be tempted to love God through the bait of sweet sounds addressed to their outward senses." His piety led him to found the order of Dancing Dervishes. Incidentally, the head of this order has been in the same family for over six hundred years. He wrote the Mesnevi, which is to the Mehlevi fathers what the Acts of the Apostles is to us. This work contains many hundreds of stories, each giving an account of some miracle or unusual experience. Attached to the stories are moral maxims. Rumi lived between 1207 and 1273. Coming in between Khayyam and Rumi, we have Nizami (1141-1203), who told in exquisite verse some of the most beautiful stories in all literature. He retold the old Arabian story of Laili and Majnun, which is an unsurpassed example of devotion and love, with a tenderness and pathos that stir the reader to the very depths. Nizami is the great Persian romantic poet. Hafiz said of him: "Not all the treasured lore of ancient days Can boast the sweetness of Nizami's lays." Sa'di said of him when he died: "Gone is Nizami, our exquisite pearl,
601
which heaven in its kindness formed of purest dew, as the gem of the world." His works are: The Storehouse of Mysteries, Koshru and Shirin, Diwan, Laili and Majnun, Book of Alexander, and Seven Fair Faces.
ANOTHER poet greatly beloved in Persia, and by many considered the greatest, is Sa'di (1184- 1291), who was born in Shiraz in southern Persia. Although his father died when he was young, he had a patron who sent him to school in Baghdad, where he came under the influence of eminent men. For thirty years he traveled extensively, making at least twelve pilgrimages to Mecca. While traveling, he associated with all kinds of people; observing keenly, he was able to make use of this rich experience in his writings. He returned to Shiraz somewhat of a linguist and started writing. He published his two great works, Gulistan or Rose Garden, in 1258, and Bustan or Orchard, in 1257. Gulistan is a series of stories written in prose interspersed with verse giving the moral. Professor Browne said of Sa'di: "His real charm and the secret of his popularity lie not in his consistency but in his catholicity; in his works is matter for every taste, the highest and lowest." His poems are the first studied in the schools of Iran. Here are some choice bits:
"Green was the gay apparel of the woods, Like festal robes on happy multitudes, One with bright-robed tulips all aflame, One dark with fruits of many a curious name, The wind, amid the shadows of its bowers, Had diapered the jewelled turf with flowers."
One writer said of Sa'di's writings: "The bitter tonic of advice is sweetened with honey of wit." The following are taken from Gulistan, which is full of sage sayings:
"If you know of news which will cause pain, be silent and let others disclose it. Nightingale bring word of spring, Leave bad news to the owl."
"I saw a holy man upon the seashore, who had been torn by a tiger. No drug could relieve his pain; greatly he endured, and yet was forever giving thanks to God most high, saying: 'Praised be Allah that I have fallen into ill luck, and not into sin'"
"Musk is known by its perfume, and not by the druggist's label. The wise man is like a vase in an apothecary's shop, silent but full of virtue, whilst the ignorant man is loud of voice, like the warrior's drum."
The special field of Sa'di was the moral tale, the maxim and the fable, all of which he does with a certain charm. He said of his own works that "the pearls of salutary counsel are strung on the thread of diction, and the bitter medicine of advice is mingled with the honey of mirthful humor." He wrote late in life, and his works show the mind of a matured philosopher who could wink at the follies of humanity. He was a realist who pictured the life of highway and bazaar. He has been loved by successive generations of Persians for over six hundred years.
SHIRAZ is honored in being the birth and burial place of two of Persia's greatest poets. Hafiz was born there early in the fourteenth century, living his entire life in Persia. By many he is considered their greatest lyric poet. He was born of a rich father whose death left the widow and son in poor circumstances, but somehow he managed to go to school and learn the Koran by heart. Very early he started to write and recite poetry. Hafiz taught the Koran in a college that had been founded for his benefit. He lived a rather peaceful life, taking no part in politics and hence not interested or worried about who was in power. All Persians agree that no translation does Hafiz credit, and that if one should really know his worth one must read his poems in the original. No one has done for him what Fitzgerald did for Omar Khayyam. His favorite means of expression was the ghazal, or ode. This is a poem of about sixteen couplets. The first couplet has the double rhyme; but thereafter, the first line of each couplet has no rhyme, and the second line rhymes with the first couplet, making only one rhyme throughout the poem. He wrote about five hundred ghazals besides other lyrics and quatrains. His friends tried to persuade him to put all his poems together as "lustrous pearls on one string, so that they might become a necklace of great price for his contemporaries." Teaching and writing kept him too busy to comply with his friend's wishes, but a pupil collected some of the poems into a volume as the Diwan of Hafiz. Hafiz had a wife and son to whom he was much attached and for whom he wrote some of his finest lines, since both died while he still lived. The following lines were written to his wife:
"Then said my heart, I will sojourn myself in this city which is perfumed by her scent; Her feet were bent upon a longer journey, but I helpless knew it not."
"Open my grave when I am dead, and thou shalt see a cloud of smoke rising from out of it;
602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
SOME PERSIAN POETS YOU WILL LIKE
Then shalt thou know that the fire still burns in my dead heart— Yea, it has set my very winding-sheet alight."
"If the scent of her hair were to blow across my dust When I have been dead a hundred years, My mouldering bones would rise And come dancing out of the tomb."
After the death of his son, he wrote:
"The ease of the eye of mine, that fruit of my heart, ever be his memory! That went himself an easy journey and made my journey hard."
One writer said this of Hafiz: "His verses are full of roses and of musk, the song of nightingales, the light of the warm stars, the shade of cypress and of olives, and all the balmy odors of the mysterious East." Some of the clergy refused to bury him in a Mohammedan cemetery, so it was left to chance; and a verse was chosen at random from his works which read: "Fear not to approach the corpse of Hafiz; Although stained with sin, he will enter heaven." It is needless to say, he was buried in the cemetery. Even to this day people open his books to receive consolation or to get their fortune told.
Jami (1414 to 1492), who died the year Columbus discovered America, is one of the most exquisite of the Persian writers. One writer says of him: "Jami, with his flashes of sunset glow, ushers in the night of decadence in the fifteenth century." His real name was Nuruddin Abdurrahman, but he took the name Jami from the city of Jam, where he dwelt. He started out as an investigator in science and achieved the
603
distinction of Doctor of Musselman Law. He later became a poet, one of the most celebrated of his time. He was not only a polished writer but a prolific one, many of his works being beautifully illuminated. His best work is Yusuf and Zulaikha, a story of Joseph and the wife of Potiphar. The Baharistan or Abode of Spring is similar to Sa'di's Gulistan, being written as a means of instruction for his son. It is divided into eight gardens, each garden dealing with a different subject. The following examples will give some idea of his verse:
"I'll hide myself within my song of love, That I may kiss thee when thou singest it."
And from The God Behind the Veil:
"O fairest rose, with rosebud mouth,' I sighed, 'Why, like coquettes, thy face forever hide?' He smiled, 'Unlike the beauties of the earth, Even when veiled I still may be described.
"Thy face uncovered would be all too bright; Without a veil none could endure the sight. What eye is strong enough to gaze upon The dazzling splendor of the fount of light?
"When the sun's banner blazes in the sky, Its light gives pain by its intensity; But when 'tis tempered by a veil of clouds, That light is soft and pleasant to the eye."
These poets that we have mentioned all lived before the discovery of America. We shall say nothing of the modern poets of Iran, although there are many of them. The writings of some of them may not be
604
translated into English, and many Americans will, therefore, not have an opportunity to become acquainted with them. This is a land of shrines. Some of the most beloved are those erected to the poets. The city of Shiraz has many more visitors every year because Sa'di and Hafiz are buried there, and the road to Meshed is
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
all the more popular because on the way one may see the shrines erected to Ferdowsi and Omar Khayyam. The writings of the poets of Persia have made living in this land more pleasant. I hope that all who read this article may have an opportunity of reading from the gems of Persian poetry so that their lives may be enriched.
Editor's Note: Estelle S. Harris (Mrs. Franklin S. Harris) has spent the past year in Persia in company with her husband, Dr. Harris, who has been investigating all branches of the Department of Agriculture for the Persian Government, making suggestions and recommendations for improvements.
WHO?
Grace M. Candland
Who set the pattern of each bud and leaf, Who chose the colors for the phlox and rose And made the jeweled night for sweet repose, And hid the wheaten kernel in the sheaf, The feathered beauty of the pheasant's breast, The soft alluring shades of autumn trail, The floating music of the nightingale, And hung the glorious sunset in the west?
Our eyes may see a world of loveliness If we but pause along life's hurried way To catch the melody of each new day That teems about us with such lavishness. Thus life can be a radiant new birth To match the thrilling sequence of the earth.
Some Literary Friends
Florence Ivins Hyde
IV
"The Last Lesson"*
FRANCE has always been a land of romance—a land of knights and ladies, of chivalry, of perfume and fine laces. Yet the nation of France has suffered many tragedies from wars and invasions. The little section of Alsace-Lorraine is of such economic importance that it has always been looked upon with envy by conquering nations. In this short story, "The Last Lesson," Alphonse Daudet, one of the greatest of French writers, uses this section to express his love for his country and for his native tongue. Although a novelist, many critics consider that his finest work may be found in his short stories. His delicacy of expression has led them to speak of these stories as "poems in prose." It has been said that his humor is as "delicate as the quiver of a butterfly's wings." Daudet does not deal with extraordinary characters nor unusual events. In the life of the average man he finds drama—often tragic drama. This gift is portrayed in this story of his schoolmaster. (It was originally written in the first person but was changed to its present form by Sara Cone Bryant:) Daudet saw so many fine things that escape the ordinary eye, and could express with unusual tenderness and grace the things he saw. One biographer says of him, "All the graces were present at the cradle of Alphonse Daudet." In this story we see his gift for seeing drama in the ordinary events of life—subtle things which escape most men. We see his gift of using words with such exactness that we remember his picture as if it had been left on canvas. He once said, "So many things are lost in that long journey from the brain to the hand." We are surprised that with his great genius he should feel it difficult to translate into words his emotions of laughter and tears. In the picture of the schoolmaster, we see none of the animosity for the Teuton, but only his pathetic, his noble, his heroic character. See if you can read it aloud to your family without a lump in your throat.
THE LAST LESSON
Little Franz didn't want to go to school, that morning. He would much rather have played truant. The air was so warm and still,—you could hear the blackbird singing at the edge of the wood, and the sound of the Prussians drilling, down in the meadow behind the old sawmill. He would so much rather have played truant! Besides, this was the day for the lesson in the rule of participles; and the rule of participles in French is very, very long, and very hard, and it has more exceptions than rule. Little Franz did not know it at all. He did not want to go to school. But, somehow, he went. His legs carried him reluctantly into the village and along the street. As he passed the official bulletin-board be-
606
fore the town hall, he noticed a little crowd around it, looking at it. That was the place where the news of lost battles, the requisition for more troops, the demands for new taxes were posted. Small as he was, little Franz had seen enough to make him think, "What now, I wonder?" But he could not stop to see; he was afraid of being late. When he came to the school yard his heart beat very fast; he was afraid he was late, after all, for the windows were all open, and yet he heard no noise,—the schoolroom was perfectly quiet. He had been counting on the noise and confusion before school,—the slamming of desk covers, the banging of books, the tapping of the master's cane and his "A little less noise, please,'—to let him slip quietly into his seat unnoticed. But no; he had to open the door and walk up the long aisle, in the midst of a silent room, with the master looking straight at him. Oh, how hot his cheeks felt, and how hard his heart beat! But to his great surprise the master didn't scold at all. All he said was, "Come quickly to your place, my little Franz; we were just going to begin without you!" Little Franz could hardly believe his ears; that wasn't at all the way the master was accustomed to speak. It was very strange! Somehow—everything was very strange. The room looked queer. Everybody was sitting so still, so straight—as if it were an exhibition day, or something very particular. And the master—he looked strange, too; why, he had on his fine lace jabot and his best coat, that he wore only on holidays, and his gold snuff-box in his hand. Certainly it was very odd. Little Franz looked all around, wondering. And
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
there in the back of the room was the oddest thing of all. There, on a bench, sat visitors. Visitors! He could not make it out; people never came except on great occasions,— examination days and such. And it was not a holiday. Yet there were the agent, the old blacksmith, the farmer, sitting quiet and still. It was very, very strange. Just then the master stood up and opened school. He said, "My children, this is the last time I shall ever teach you. The order has come from Berlin that henceforth nothing but German shall be taught in the schools of Alsace and Lorraine. This is your last lesson in French. I beg you, be very attentive." His last lesson in French! Little Franz could not believe his ears; his last lesson—ah, that was what was on the bulletin board! It flashed across him in an instant. That was it! His last lesson in French—and he scarcely knew how to read and write—why, then, he should never know how! He looked down at his books, all battered and torn at the corners; and suddenly his books seemed quite different to him, they seemed—somehow—like friends. He looked at the master, and he seemed different, too, — like a very good friend. Little Franz began to feel strange himself. Just as he was thinking about it, he heard his name called, and he stood up to recite. It was the rule of participles. Oh, what wouldn't he have given to be able to say it off from beginning to end, exceptions and all, without a blunder! But he could only stand and hang his head; he did not know a word of it. Then through the hot pounding in his ears he heard the master's voice; it was quite gentle; not at all the scolding voice he expected. And it said, "I'm not going to punish you, little Franz. Perhaps you are punished enough. And you are not alone in your fault. We all do the same thing,—we all put off our tasks till tomorrow. And — sometimes — tomorrow never comes. That is what it has been with us. We Alsatians have been always putting off our education till the morrow; and now they have a right, those people down there, to say to us, "What! You call yourselves French, and cannot even read and write the French language? Learn German, then!' " And then the master spoke to them of the French language. He told them how beautiful it was, how clear and musical and reasonable, and he said that no people could be hopelessly conquered so long as it kept its language, for the language was the key to its prison-house. And then he said he was going to tell them a little about that beautiful language, and he explained the rule of participles. And do you know, it was just as simple as A B C! Little Franz understood every word. It was just the same with the rest of the grammar lesson. I don't know whether little Franz listened harder, or whether the master explained better; but it was all quite clear, and simple. But as they went on with it, and little Franz listened and looked, it seemed to him that the master was trying to put the whole French language into their heads in that one hour. It seemed as if he wanted to teach them all he knew, before he went,—to give them all he had,—in this last lesson. From the grammar he went on to
607
the writing lesson. And for this, quite new copies had been prepared. They were written on clean, new slips of paper, and they were:— France: Alsace. France: Alsace. All up and down the aisles they hung out from the desks like little banners, waving: — France: Alsace. France: Alsace. And everybody worked with all his might,—not a sound could you hear but the scratching of pens on the "France: Alsace." Even the little ones bent over their up and down strokes with their tongues stuck out to help them work. After the writing, came the reading lesson, and the little ones sang their ba, be, bi, bo, bu. Right in the midst of it, Franz heard a curious sound, a big deep voice mingling with the children's voices. He turned around, and there, on the bench in the back of the room, the old blacksmith sat with a big A B C book open on his knees. It was his voice Franz had heard. He was saying the sounds with the little children—ba, be, bi, bo, bu. His voice sounded so odd, with the little voices,—so very odd,—it made little Franz feel queer. He thought it was funny; he guessed he would laugh; then he guessed he wouldn't laugh; he felt—he felt very queer. So it went on with the lessons; they had them all. And then, suddenly, the town clock struck noon. And at the same time they heard the tramp of the Prussians' feet, coming back from drill. It was time to close school. The master stood up. He was
608
very pale. Little Franz had never seen him look so tall. He said: "My children—my children"— but something choked him; he could not go on. Instead he turned and went to the blackboard and took up a piece of chalk. And then he wrote,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
high up, in big white letters, "Vive la France!" And he made a little sign to them with his head, "That is all; go away."
*Used by permission of Houghton-Mifflin Company; published in Bryant's How to Tell Stories to Children.
MY MOTHER'S CROCHET
They used to say she wasted time, My mother, with her crochet hook; That she could better use her mind In studying some learned book. But now I'm older I can see Just what her handwork did for me.
We were too poor for many things: For famous pictures, antique lace, Fine furniture, that 'round it flings A subtle air of ease and grace. The loveliness that money buys Was thus withheld from our young eyes.
And yet our lives were not denied The gentle influence of art; And in its warm smile, hate and pride Were melted from each childish heart: We could do nothing mean or base While gazing on exquisite lace.
Thus in each character was wrought The beauty of Venise crochet; And to our daily lives was brought The dignity of rare filet; Self-confidence and poise and grace Were taught us by her Cluny lace.
Antique, Hungarian, Gros Filet, Each helped our characters to school; While sturdiness in work and play Was taught by garments made of wool; Self-sacrificing love was hymned In tiny garments, crochet trimmed.
O patient hands and loving heart, That planned so wisely how was best To give each budding life its part Of beauty, I shall meet Life's test More strong, courageous, brave and gay For knowing you and your crochet.
—Olive W. Burt.
We Find America
Mary Ek Knowles
MARTHA TAYLOR looked up from her knitting as her son, Jerry, and Archie, Bill and Wade, young men from his class, came noisily down the stairs and through the hall to the front door. As she caught snatches of their conversation, her gray eyes became troubled. "... Totalitarian government... Dictatorship... Marxian theory...." Somehow, it seemed to Martha that that was all she had heard them talking about for the past six months. Jerry's voice rose suddenly above the rest. "The totalitarian type of government has advantages the American form of government never could offer, that's a sure thing!" Then there was the sharp bang of the front screen, and all was quiet. Martha reached over and tugged at her husband's sleeve. "Will, did you hear what Jerry said?" Will Taylor aroused himself from the depths of the evening paper. "Hm?" he asked, looking at her over his glasses. "It's Jerry, Will. He worries me. This new society he's joined, the radical talk—we should do something about it!" "Now Martha..." Will opened the newspaper and folded it again at the sports section. "All boys are that way. Get old enough to shave and they look around for a way to cure all the ills of the world." He chuckled. "Me, I belonged to a group when I was Jerry's age. 'Knights of the Morning' we called it." "But this is different, Will. It frightens me. Can't we...," "Now, Martha," Will's voice was almost a groan, "I'm tired. Had a hard day at the office. Let me relax now and enjoy my paper. Don't be a calamity howler, making a mountain out of a mole hill." His voice dwindled off, and he lapsed into silence, his attention centered on the paper. Martha picked up the front section of the paper which had slipped from Will's lap, and her eyes scanned the headlines; then, she looked around her pleasant living room. Evelyn, her twelve-year-old daughter, was lying on the sofa eating an apple and reading a book; Patsy and Lin were playing with their toys by the fireplace. The voice of Harold, the ten-year-old, sounded outside the open window, where he and his playmates were playing a game. Her eyes returned again to the pictures on the front page. Just so, Martha thought uneasily, they, the people of the nations of Europe, must have spent many a quiet evening at home, smug and contented, lulled to inactivity by a sense of false security, until the enemy of war was pounding at their gates. Martha found herself interpreting the day's events in terms of real people, real homes, real cities. And the sad faces of the refugee women and children that gazed back at her from the paper were suffering no less than her own little family would suffer under the same circumstances. Jerry's parting remark came back to her. He was wrong, of course. How could any form of government offer more than the democratic form.
610
Or was he right? Had she trusted too much to memory? Were the privileges and liberties of her country imagined? Martha placed her knitting and the newspaper on the table at the side of the chair and went to the bookcase at the end of the room. After a patient search, she found a copy of The Declaration of Independence and The Constitution of the United States in the back of an American history book. Long after the family was in bed, Martha sat in her chair beneath the lamp. "Declaration of Independence," she read. "In Congress, July 4, 1776. When in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another.... We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness...." As simply stated as that, yet there was a depth, a ring to the words more impressive than the roll of drums or the shrill of trumpets. Martha read through to the end of the valuable document; and as she read, she visioned not cold, historical figures in a dim past but a group of struggling colonies persecuted to the limit of human endurance, rising up against a powerful nation, ready to uphold the freedom they held dear. She marveled at their courage and their strength. She turned the page to the Constitution, and as she read, the fear that had been in her heart vanished. The Constitution was the same as she had remembered it. It assured "a government of the people, by the people, for the people," so constructed that no one man should rule as dictator. Surely, Jerry and his friends had not studied their Constitution! Because the Constitution had always been theirs, it had faded into the realm of commonplace things, there was about it none of the glamour, the adventure surrounding a new and untried plan. Three times Martha read through "The Bill of Rights"—a bill guaranteeing certain rights, among which were liberty of speech and press, immunity from arbitrary arrests.... For these high ideals, these inalienable rights, a courageous people had fought and died, and now a new generation had arisen, a generation which had forgotten the bloody footprints in the snow at Valley Forge, a generation which was wondering if, after all, another form of government might not be better. The thought came to Martha. "We have had freedom and liberty handed to us on a silver platter. It has come too easy. We are like pampered children toying with a priceless jewel the value of which we have no conception." She had a sudden desire, a great hunger to know more of her country. Not from text-books, but from seeing the people themselves and how they lived under the democratic form of government.
HAMILTON was a representative American city. What better way to know America than to know her own home town. Excitedly, Martha made plans. She could get Amelia Banks to tend the children and prepare the meals, She would
WE FIND AMERICA
be free to wander where she would for the whole day. Martha had been born and reared in Hamilton. But she had never known her city—not really. She had been content with her own circle of friends, blind and indifferent to the lives of those about her. At some time or other in her forty years of life she must have been on every street in the city. But she had never seen the houses, and the people, and the children. The streets had been a means of getting somewhere, a distance between stop signs. As Martha drove slowly about the city that late September day, or parked her car and walked leisurely block after block, she saw things she had never seen before. "We hurry too much," she thought almost sadly. "We don't have time to live and enjoy life." For the first time in her life, Martha found herself interpreting houses in the terms of homes where men, women, and children worked and played, wept and laughed, faced problems much the same as those she and her family faced. Several things impressed Martha in that day's adventure. One was the wealth of "necessities" which in any other country would be considered "luxuries." Through open doors, she glimpsed streamlined radios, refrigerators, stoves, washers. In the driveway of even the most humble house was an automobile. The other things which impressed Martha were the freedom of speech, and the freedom to worship as one pleased. The former showed itself in many ways; the latter, in the many churches she saw as she drove about. She passed two men having a spirited debate on the merits and demerits
611
of the two candidates in the coming presidential election. At a newsstand, she purchased a paper, read of the expose of the dishonest dealings of a group of politicians. She stood in the city park and listened to a "soap box orator" voice his radical views. As she listened, she wondered, "Is this wise? Shouldn't this be stopped?" Then the thought came to her, "A government cannot legislate against the morals of its people. They must choose for themselves, and only through proper education will they know the right choice." Parents, Martha decided, had a greater duty toward their children than merely feeding and clothing them. From the cradle, they should be taught love of country. Her path took her at last to the foreign section of the city. Here she again parked her car and walked slowly down the crowded streets. America, indeed, was the melting pot of the world. People of all nationalities and races lived together under one flag. She ate a delicious lunch of soup and salad in a friendly little downstairs restaurant and entered into conversation with the swarthy-faced proprietor. "Are you glad you are an American?" she asked him. Tony Serpentine placed the bowl of hot soup on the table in front of her. "Am I glad I'm an American, Lady!" he said, holding his plump hands out expressively. "Fifteen years I am American citizen, and I love her! Why shouldn't I? Here I am a free man. Mr. Serpentine I am. Here I come and go as I please. Here I have a say who shall be mayor, who shall be governor, who shall be the Big Boss even. Here my vote is as good as Mr. Henry Ford's or Mr. J. P. Morgan's. Isn't that wonderful!" Martha lowered her eyes before such enthusiasm. She, an American-born citizen, whose forefathers had fought for freedom, whose mother had fought for women's right to vote, had not even bothered to go to the polls because she was so busy and the weather had been wet and miserable. Again she thought, "These privileges have come too easy to us; we don't appreciate them." She found herself in the slums of the city. Here indeed were poverty and dirt—and silk stockings and permanents. She pondered over that for a long moment. Poverty and dirt— silk stockings and permanents! Even here were "necessities" that in any other nation would be considered "luxuries." America had her share of greed, of poverty, of injustice, Martha realized. But she was a young country. Only one hundred and sixty-four years had passed since the signing of The Declaration of Independence. In that comparatively short time, America was accomplishing the greatest experiment of all time—the blending of all races. There was still much to be done before the ideals of the American forefathers became a reality, but there was nothing that was impossible if the energies of the people were bent toward the common good. A government of the people, by the people, for the people. The government then could be no stronger, no more perfect than the people who composed it. The government was the people! It was well, then, Martha thought soberly, for America to turn her eyes inward and look to herself. She saw America as a rich nation, a wasteful nation, who needed, as Martha's pioneer grandfather used to say, to "Tighten your belt, and put your shoulder to the wheel." But first Martha realized, the change must come in the individual families. She remembered how she had coaxed Lin at breakfast that morning, "Eat your cereal, darling, that's a good boy. Come now. Eat so you'll be a big, strong boy." She saw for the first time that her own family was overfed, overpampered. American mothers could well start disciplining their children.
It was almost dark when Martha arrived home. The family was watching anxiously for her. "Where have you been?" Will asked. Martha did not speak for a moment, and her gray eyes lingered lovingly, almost fearfully, on each of the family group. "Where have I been?" she asked at last. "I've been finding America. I've seen a country where hundreds of religious faiths exist in peace. I've seen a country where people of many nationalities, with all their different customs, ideals, peculiarities, live under one flag, united in the principles of freedom and liberty. I've seen a nation of fine homes, free public schools, free libraries, splendid buildings. I've seen a country where even the poor have 'luxuries.' " She turned to Jerry, "Match that in any other type of government!" A sharp little edge crept into her voice, and Jerry looked up quickly. Will's feeling of
612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
WE FIND AMERICA
impatience turned to one of mingled fears and prayer. "Upon the youth of the land," she said, "depends the future of America, for they are the men and women of tomorrow." She handed Jerry the history book she had studied the night before. "The Constitution of the United States is in this book," she said. "All I ask is that you and your friends study it as carefully as you have studied the other forms of govern-
613
ment. I know you will find there are no reforms, no beneficial changes that cannot be accomplished right here in our own country, under our own flag. "Then after you have studied it, think America, talk America, LOVE AMERICA, lest the cherished birthright of freedom and liberty be taken from you!" The solemn quiet of the little group was more impressive than the clapping of a thousand hands.
YOUTH FACES TOMORROW
Alice L. Eddy
The world of tomorrow will be of our making; The dream of today is tomorrow's bright deed. War, want, and sorrow we see all around us— Can aught of value grow from this dark seed?
Harness the waters with reenforced concrete Future embankments must curb passion's flow. What of this speed, this proud force beyond measure, If greed flourish rampant? If avarice grow?
Not engines, not weapons, but well-builded concepts, Not towers but high thoughts will most help mankind. Truth, virtue, knowledge must set up the beacons To lighten the uncharted skies of the mind.
Trail blazers, pioneers, builders are needed The worth and the glory of work to restore. Tomorrow's horizons are wide as the spirit; The frontiers of justice are still to explore.
We have apprenticed our powers to the future, Sounding a keynote courageous and gay. We are the builders of all the tomorrows; We are the undaunted youth of today.
The Sunny Side of the Hill
Lella Marler Hoggan
No. 4
Under Skies of Blue
WE all remember the story, "The Old Man of The Sea." We recall how Sinbad the Sailor carried this old man safely across a turbulent stream; and then how the old fellow continued to cling to the sailor's neck, refusing to walk upon his own feet, until Sinbad, becoming jaded, footsore and weary, finally resorted to caprice in order to rid himself of his ungrateful burden. How many of us today are stumbling along very much like that long-ago traveler, burdened with numberless cares and worthless possessions that might just as well be dropped from our shoulders? Through the years we gather about us unnecessary belongings. We permit our lives to become crowded with accumulations that have no permanent value. We fill our hands with dead wood that will never know a future blossoming. We become slaves to our things, our habits, our fears. We are cheating ourselves when we acquire in youth habits that will betray us later in life. We are deserting our ideals when we follow the crowd, letting today's convenience outweigh tomorrow's development. If we drift with the throng, permitting ourselves to be burdened with all of the non-essentials that chance to roll across our path, we shall one day awaken to the fact that many of the things we had hoped to achieve are not even begun. Life catches up with us and lays a hand on our shoulder. "Do you remember this unfulfilled dream, and that one?" she asks. "Have you forgotten how we planned thus and so?" Yes, in the frenzied onrush of life we had forgotten. A great emptiness enters our heart. It is a lonely moment when we come to realize that we have disappointed ourselves. But it need not be a hopeless moment. For tomorrow holds in her magic hand new dreams and bright visions waiting to be fulfilled. Nature is always ready to let us try again, if we are really in earnest. She covers our past errors with a cloak of forgetfulness so that we may start afresh.
In a measure, our possessions are an index to our lives. We no sooner learn the meaning of mine and thine than we begin to collect personal belongings. Unless we use discretion, our accumulations soon become burdensome. And if we do not early acquire the art of discarding, we fill our lives with gaudy trifles to the exclusion of genuine values. As we grow in judgment, we learn to discriminate between this and that, to select and to decide what we shall leave and what we shall take. We search for permanent val-
THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL
ues, trying to lay hold on the things that will satisfy the soul. "Is there not some key," we ask ourselves, "by which we may be guided?" And out of the wisdom of experience, we gather here a thought and there a
615
suggestion that helps us to choose more prudently. Some of these findings are: Life here and now is of little worth to us unless we can have health and strength and a keen sense of appreciation. The promotion of intellectual growth and spiritual development brings its reward. Experience that leaves us with satisfied hearts and happy memories is of real worth. And the good which we can carry with us through the ages has supreme value. Too often, however, we permit life to become so congested with unimportant things that we fail to recognize real values. When you arise some morning with your hearts so full of distractions and forebodings that the tension is fairly smothering you, that is the very day you should pause long enough to wash the slate clean and to start over again. Put a cold lunch on the table for the family and go out alone to commune with life. When you pass the last fence, as you approach the mountains or the lake or whatever outpost it may be, hang your last worry on that fence and close your mind against everything of a disturbing nature. Maybe if you offer a little silent prayer or sing a verse of some happy melody or repeat the Twenty-third Psalm, it will put you in harmony with the rhythm about you, the gentle rustle of leaves, the cadence of rippling water, the clear call of a bird's note. In the solitude of the mountains or the wooded hills you forget your trivial cares. Truth sits with you beside the lilting stream and counsels with you in wisdom's ways. The soft wind brings fragrance of pines and roses. Sorrow and foreboding and
616
unrest seem to fall away. You view life with a clearer vision, a surer purpose, a deeper understanding. Alone with nature you have found communion with the Most High. You go back to your home renewed in strength and fortified against every emergency. Let us spend more time under the blue skies. Let us watch for the colors in the mountain shadows and in the shifting clouds at dawn. Let us learn to look long and lovingly at the out-of-doors. Also, let us watch with seeing eyes for hidden spiritual beauty. That old lady next door, in her long dress and shoulder shawl, perhaps has a past filled with romance. Why not spend an hour with her sometime? And that war veteran across the street, who walks with a limp, has seen life in its most tragic reality. Why not talk with him? Looking at trouble sympathetically reveals a new world to us. Sharing the sorrow of others reduces our own grief and helps us to discriminate between fleeting and eternal values. Careful planning yields leisure hours, and into these we may crowd all of heaven we know how to accept. But so long as we permit ourselves to go on lugging a burden of care about we cannot hope to find courage or stamina with which to meet life heroically, Why should we cling so tenaciously to that which brings only defeat? Why not shed it forthwith? Remember, the heart has its habits as well as the mind. If we encourage Mirth to sing a little song of joy
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER, 1940
under our window each day, we shall come to expect the happy melody and the peaceful comfort that it brings. And if we postpone our happiness too long, we may be surprised to find that we have lost the art of being glad. Of course, there are many distractions to frustrate even our wisest plans. Duty raps at our door before we are awake in the morning. Love calls us to her bidding with imperative haste. Sorrow enters unannounced. These high loyalties we would not evade. To abandon them would bring us not release, but a deep loss. They are the rich, enduring experiences of life. Too often we neglect these greater values because of preoccupation with less important ones. We enslave ourselves with a load of non-essentials that demand more time than is recorded on the calendar. And nothing detracts from our efficiency so much as a burden of unfinished things. We shackle ourselves by our own thinking. We build up a wall of obligations that holds us to a beaten course within its bounds. Sometimes we fail to realize that we are the sole guard at the gates, and that we carry the key in our own pocket. Why not walk out on ourselves? We have as much freedom as we are brave enough to use. Faith is waiting to show us the way out. She will help us to discard our excess baggage and to reroute our course of life to a happier landing.
"OUR Centennial will be not only an appraisal of the past but a dedication to the future."—President Amy Brown Lyman,
HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER — it was a lovely morning when the little fellow started to school. I wonder why my eyes were dimmed with tears?
ELIZABETH BIRD HOWELLS, 94 years old, pioneer of three states—California, Utah, and Idaho —demonstrated the truth of the poet's lines, "Ah, nothing is too late, Till the tired heart shall cease to palpitate," when last month she made a trip by plane from Salt Lake City to San Francisco to attend the dedication of a plaque commemorating the arrival of the first party of American emigrants to land from sea on California shores. A sailing vessel, the ship Brooklyn, carrying 235 Latter-day Saints from Boston, down the Atlantic, around Cape Horn, up the Pacific, after a voyage of six months reached San Francisco Bay, July 31, 1846, and landed her precious cargo. The city was then called Yerba Buena. Mrs. Howell is now the only surviving member of that company. She is an interesting figure anywhere, and greatly enjoyed her trip and the marvelous changes she beheld. She was the honored guest of the San Francisco Camp of Daughters of Utah Pioneers.
LAURA INGALLS, famous woman aviator, believes there is a tremendous future for women in aviation, and she is training women now in order to have them ready to take part in the intensive defense program.
CARRIE C. GANSCHOW, formerly of Chicago, where she was a worker in the Logan Square Relief Society, was recently awarded a medal and prize of $25 as the outstanding "good neighbor" in her community. The award, made by the Jefferson Park Times, followed a vote taken in that Chicago suburb of about 10,000 inhabitants.
ALICE MARBLE is now the world's premiere tennis player, since she defeated the brilliant English champion, Mary Hardwick, at the Seabright, New Jersey, tournament.
FORMER Empress Zita of Austria-Hungary, a refugee from Nazi military conquests, has been joined in America by her children—a reunion of great happiness.
THE Ranee of Sarawak, wife of Sir Charles Viner Brook, the white Rajah of Sarawak, a British state in Borneo, is in the United States on a lecture tour in behalf of the evacuation of children from the British Isles.
MARY FIELD GARNER, age 104, of Utah, was an interested spectator of the parade, July 24, depicting pioneer days. What golden memories are hers!
SARAH A. J. CANNON, 80, beloved and faithful Relief Society and temple worker of 30 years' service, died this past summer. Other faithful Utah pioneer mothers who passed on were Anna Boren, 93, of Provo; Martha F. Taylor, 95, of Lehi; and Mary W. Harman, 97, of Salt Lake.
FLEMISH women are now planting potatoes, where the poppies and tulips grew.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Brown Lyman - - - President Marcia K. Howells - - - First Counselor
Donna D. Sorensen - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd
Luella N. Adams Gertrude B. Darley Lorna B. Fetzer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. XXVII SEPTEMBER, 1940 No. 9
EDITORIALS
A Land Of Liberty
IN New York harbor stands the colossal Statue of Liberty, proclaiming to all the world that this is a land of freedom and opportunity, a land where liberty reigns, and that its light shall enlighten the world. One hundred and fifty-three years ago this month (September 17, 1787) the founding fathers brought forth their proposed Constitution of the United States and offered the document for ratification to the thirteen states. The Constitution was planned to perpetuate American liberty, which had been so dearly won by the American Revolution; all other aims were subordinate. The fifty-five delegates who framed the Constitution were an unusual body of men. Among them were soldiers, planters, lawyers, physicians, merchants and judges. Some of them were rich and others were poor. One of the ablest among them had been a penniless painter. Another, Rodger Sherman, had been a poor shoemaker who had studied at night to become a lawyer. George Washington had been trained in the stern school of war. But they represented the keenest intellects of the states. They were students of government. They knew history and were familiar with the struggle of the English people toward liberty. They knew the bitter struggle that had won American independence. Most important of all, they knew the worth of liberty for the happiness and well-being of mankind. Calvin Coolidge truly said, "To live under the Constitution is the greatest political privilege that was ever accorded to the human race." For over one hundred fifty years its blessing and its strength have been proved. Through years of great social and economic change, it has accommodated itself to American life and safeguarded the liberty and happiness of the American people. The right of mankind to enjoy liberty comes from God. The law of liberty is God's law. In the far-distant past this momentous question was settled in the Council in Heaven when Lucifer's plan of compulsion was rejected and Christ's plan of free agency was accepted. According to God's prophets, America is a land of promise, designed to be a land where the inhabitants may enjoy liberty as long as they serve God and keep His commandments. The Book of Mormon. Records the words of Lehi: "... We have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands;... Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. "... There shall be none come into this land save they shall be brought: by the hand of the Lord. "Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve Him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them..." How marvelous are the opportunities and benefits derived from living in this land of the free. The American people have the highest standard of living in the world. We are free to voice our opinions, to say 619 how and by whom we shall be governed. We enjoy a free press. We may worship God in our churches unmolested. America offers free schooling. We have a free public library system with extension service to villages and farms. This is a land where each individual is privileged to develop his gifts and achieve according to his ability; it is a "land where each man and each woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable." America is indeed a land of privilege and opportunity, a choice land, a land of promise. But even as the prophets have promised the inhabitants of this land great blessings, so also have they told us: "... He that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God." (Ether 2:10) In the words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "The price of the promised blessing of freedom has always been and ever will be the serving of Jesus Christ, the God of this land. Notice to Class Leaders THE moving picture based on the book, The Tree of Liberty, which is to be used in the literature department of the Relief Society for the coming year, 1940-41, will be released in late September and will be shown in local theaters during the fall. The picture will not be given the title of the book, but instead will be called The Howards of Virginia. At one time the publishers of The Tree of Liberty, Farrar and Rinehart, contemplated issuing a cheaper edition of the book at the time the moving picture was released; but according to very recent information from them, this will not be done. Consequently, this book will be available to class leaders at the regular price, which is $3. Some of the lessons in the educational departments of the Relief Society this coming year, 1940-41, have various Church Sections of the Deseret News listed as references. Class leaders may procure these Sections by writing directly to the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, and enclosing five cents for each copy desired.. Cathedral of Peace Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER ELEVEN WHEN the storm was over, the W sun rose on a cold, white earth. As soon as the chores were done, Bob put on his overshoes and turned his face toward the Elkhorn. "Where is he going?" Turner asked, as standing by the window he saw him start away. Carolyn came to stand by him. "T think I know," she said softly. - Turner sighed in deep satisfaction. With a wife like June, Bob would go a long way. Carolyn also sighed, but her sigh was a little envious. She half turned to her husband. Since its resuscitation, her love was growing rapidly in strength and wisdom. Nevertheless, she sighed again, this time with impatience. Her husband turned and went out. There was a hard crust frozen over the snow. It met Bob's eyes like a thousand shattered jewels. The wind that had carried the snow had whipped it into distorted hills and hollows. He took them in his stride as effortlessly as a bird skims through the air. He crossed the fences as if there were none. He reached the Elkhorn and approached the house by the doorway through which he had, once upon a time, seen a startling canvas. Mrs. Straughn opened the door in answer to his knock. Hiding her astonishment, she said: "Come in, Bob. You -must be frozen. How could you cross the fields?" "It wasn't bad." His glance went about the room. "May I see June?" "I?ll call her. Have a chair and take off your wraps." Bob preferred to wait as he was. There was no time for amenities. He glanced impatiently at the partition door, and Mrs. Straughn left. It was only a moment until June came. Her mother closed the door after her. "Bob," she came swiftly across the room to him, "has something happened? What is wrong?" "Nothing is wrong." His eyes feasted on her loveliness. She wore a simple dress of print. Her hair was held back by a narrow band of ribbon. She had been baking, and there was a smear of flour on one cheek; but to the eager boy, she was all the beauty and graciousness that existed. His heart began a heavy pounding. She watched him, puzzled, yet knowing what had brought him there so early. "T came to tell you.. Length. "Tell me? Shall I take your coat?" Then she wondered if she were ready for him to tell her. Mechanically, he slipped the es! Blazer from his shoulders.. To tell you everything is all right again. Now we can... He reached out and gathered her hungrily into his strong arms. With a little sigh of acquiescence, she gave him her lips. She had always been ready.." he said at T was a week before the telephone line was repaired. Before that, the news spread on the radio. Mr. Taylor CATHEDRAL OF PEACE had been found beside his stalled truck. The animals in the back of it were frozen. When the officials searched the Cross Line, they found nothing. So the dead man carried the sole blame. Carolyn was besieged with calls: How was Carson? Wasn't it wonderful that he had escaped? As for that, it was a marvel that any of the men had lived through the storm. Wasn't it terrible for poor Mrs. Semple to lose her brother in such a manner? Since she was his heir, she was going to sell out in the spring and move from the valley. No wonder she had been so unfriendly. There had been a small bone broken in Carson's ankle; and even after he could put his foot to the floor, it took several weeks longer to completely heal. Since coming home, though often in pain, he had had no outbursts of temper. His eyes often followed his mother as she went about her work.. One day he said: "Mother, what is different here? I used to feel that I was sitting on a volcano. Now there is, well, there is something different." That alone, she thought, was pay for all her efforts. She was so thankful to have him safe under the home roof, no price was too great to pay. His words indicated, too, that she was slowly winning. She could still use all the help she could get. It was a gigantic task to lift her home from the rut into which it had fallen. It was a long, long way yet from being on firm ground. Once she had said she hadn't time for study, but now she found herself making time. The more she persisted, the easier it became. She not only studied lessons, she became alive to things about her. She 621 considered her husband in all things. She knew she must have him back, not alone for the sake of the children, nor just for the home. Necessary as he was to them, that alone had a hollow sound. She knew she had to have him back because he was hers, because life without him had become unthinkable. Turner noticed her attentions; he accepted them kindly but with an inner indifference. At least, that was the way Carolyn explained it to herself at night when tears could not be stayed and hopes were low. She would almost rather have him impatient and rudely aggressive than to have this indifference, which she could not reach. That must have been the way he had felt when she used to go to the grove. The children were quick to sense her attitude. To all intent and purposes the family was again united, with the father at the head. One day, he asked her why she did not drive. It was Tuesday, and she had asked for someone to take her to _her meeting. She looked up quickly. Her face flushed. "Oh, I couldn't." "Why not? We shall soon be in the fields, and then no one will have time to take you." "I would rather have you drive me," she said, and waited for the pleased expression that should follow the implied compliment. Turner looked out of the window for a moment. The snow was nearly gone cn the fields. In a week, at least, the roads would be free of hindering mud. That Carolyn was trying to recover what they had lost, he was well aware. He was not sure that he wanted it. He was not sure there was any desire left in him. But for her own sake, the reformation should go all the way, to be effective. There 622 were so many things the modern woman had that could be of use to her. "No," he said, shortly. "You learn. I have wished for years that you could handle the car. There are so many times when it would be convenient. I'll have Carson teach you. He isn't able to do much yet." With this new attitude, she was in danger of becoming too much of a leaner. So Carson drove her to meeting and on the way initiated her into the rudiments of driving. She did not want to learn. She thought back, a little wistfully, of her old life when she had had only herself to think about. Immediately the mood passed. "Atta girl," Carson praised, when she had successfully passed another car. "You will soon gain confidence. I can't see why you haven't been doing this for years." She couldn't either. She could not understand now how she had ever allowed herself to get so bogged in a slough of inertia. She had so little time to think of herself now; even some of the old hurts that had gone so deep seemed a little silly. It was hard to understand why she had worked herself up to such a passion over them. This was a work meeting. A bulband-seed exchange was being held, and the talk ran to house cleaning and new things. Always before, spring, for Carolyn, had meant nothing but a renewal of hard work, cooking for men, gardening, chickens, turkeys. The fever of planning and planting caught her. She decided she would like to have the house done over. She would like to make it presentable, so Turner could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940 invite business associates up over the week-ends or for fishing trips. Her fingers moved rapidly over the work given her, but her thoughts went faster. With all the added work involved, she would need help; she could not do it alone. In the past, she had given too much time to routine labor. "This is a flower I brought with me," she heard little Durnin say, and then she had her answer. She was a widow who had to support herself. Why not have her? It could be worked out to the advantage of both. On the way home, she told Carson her plan. "Gee, Mom, that would be great. You could use some help." 'Then in a burst of confidence, he added, "Gee, I must have gone a long way off the deep end. I didn't realize that home could be so... So comfortable. I don't even remember you talking much to us until this winter. I must have changed." ONE day Turner was at the footbridge across West Fork. He was strengthening its braces in preparation for high water that would come later when they were in the fields. The driver of a car coming up the lane saw him and stopped to talk. When he was gone, Turner realized his apathy of the last few months was giving way before a new interest. The driver was the stake president. Turner was wanted for a counselor. For the first time in years he wanted to accept. It might be worked out this time. He was going to try to talk it over with Carolyn. Then he turned, and there was Carolyn at his elbow, wanting to talk about something of her own. "What is it?" he asked. CATHEDRAL OF PEACE Watching him work, she explained little by little. She wanted Mrs. Durnin to work for her. She wanted the house papered and painted from roof to basement. Did he think they could afford it? Listening, it came over 'Turner that this was an almost forgotten pattern, a pattern that had once brought them great joy and satisfaction. He turned slowly. She waited expectantly; it did not occur to her that she no longer waited fearfully. "Why do you want to do this?" he asked. Without hesitation, without guile, she answered, "To make a happier home for you, Turner." His glance came back from the distant hills. His hands clutched hard over the hammer he held. Then he smiled, and his smile was like none other in the world. "And you?" "Then I, too, shall be satisfied." "Does it mean so much?" "Oh, Turner." Then she saw his eyes which were tumed full upon her, and a wild, sweet hope sprang to life. Had the time come? Beneath the hope, she was suddenly very, very frightened. 'Nothing else in all the world means so much. I have been trying." He dropped the hammer and held out his arms. She went into the safety, the sanctity of their shelter. This simple little incident had done what a near tragedy had failed to do; and since life is made up so _ largely of simple little things, they felt their feet were on solid ground. Tumer bent his head and laid his cheek against hers. "T know you have, my darling, I 623 know you have. Can you ever forgive me?" She was crying softly, as if she would never cease. Forgive? What was there to forgive? She could not remember. There was much to forget, but together they could do it. "Love us, too,' the twins cried, drawn from their play in the sand by this strange sight. "Scram, you angels," Turner laughed?such a throaty, satisfied laugh as they had never heayd. "Your mother and I have things to talk about." They refused to scram; and when Carolyn had ceased to weep, Turner took out his handkerchief and wiped her tears away, though he could scarcely see them because of his own. They clung to each other. It was as if one had been gone on a lonely, perilous journey and had returned. He took a twin by one hand, and she took the other, but neither was allowed to come between them. Turner's shoulders were straighter. There was a lilt to his voice, a sparkle to his eye, a great humility in his soul. She had come all the way. He must see that she never regretted. He must give and give from his great store of affection. They were once more secure, and in that security lay the power for growth and action. AS they neared the yard gate, Bob and June came riding up and stopped. "The young hound," Turner said, "he thinks he owns the earth." "Doesn't he?" He looked down at her. "Not my part of it." Bob stared at them. When before had he seen his parents walking hand in hand? When before had he seen 624 that look of complete understanding between them? He was glad June was seeing it. His strength was suddenly without bounds. Putting an arm about her, he lifted her bodily from the saddle. Unblushingly, he kept his arm about her while they waited for his parents to come up. Here then was another power born of the same security. Never again would he be afraid to bring June to his home. That something which had given him being was there again to bring grace and beauty and meaning to all their lives. Carolyn was getting the back room ready for Mrs. Durnin when Turner said, "Sit here with me. I want to talk this thing out." Disregarding the spread, he sat down on the bed and pulled her down beside him. His face was grave. "T assume," he began, "that we are entering a new life, but that entails a great deal more than just the wish. We have formed habits that will work against us. We must know what we are facing." She did not answer. It was like Turner to think the thing through. She had trusted to her feeling, and her feeling had brought with it a long view of this thing called love that she had never seen before. It was not appearances. It was not impassioned words or thrilling glances. It was not physical excitation. It was not mental intercourse. It was an integration of all these, welded and buoyed by spiritual unity. It was laughter and song. It was sadness and prostration. It was giving and receiving. It was sacrificing and demanding. It was growth and habit. It was challenge and quiet understanding. It was a way of life that took two people and made them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940 one, yet demanded they remain two distinct entities. It was the factor that raised life above mere existence. It was flavor and hope eternal. Each ingredient was necessary to the perfection and full expression of the whole. "If we recognize what brought about this condition, we shall know what to avoid in the future," Turner was saying. "It was my fault," Carolyn answered, quickly. "I let myself become a mere machine." He stopped the words on her lips. "The fault lay partly with us and partly with conditions. When a family is young, a woman has little time for outside interests; her great effort should be given to her home. Unless she struggles, she is soon absorbed. Man's nature, his love for his wife, his pride in his children demand that he bea good provider. In being one, he is likely to overemphasize the importance of money. Each resents mental or physical inertia on the part of the other. Boredom is fatal. Interest covers a multitude of sins. Are you listening?" he demanded suddenly. "Yes. Only I love to look at you." "I want you to listen." He caught her in his arms and laid his face against her hair. Its whiteness caught at his heart. "Oh, Caro, Caro," he cried. "I don't know after all. I just want you and me and the children against the world." Later he added, "Lest we be disappointed, we must remember we cannot take a flying leap back to our old footing. Years such as we have experienced leave their scars. We shall have to recognize them as scars and build from there." During the night, Carolyn awoke. CATHEDRAL OF PEACE A bright spring moon full of promise was shining through the unblinded window. This was the kind of night she had loved to go to her Cottonwood Cathedral. She wondered now how she could have found comfort there. Nature should be comforting; but she had made of the silence, the peace, a mental sedative dulling her senses to conditions and problems. It had been an avenue by which she had become ingrown. 625 She turned and looked at the face of her sleeping husband. The bond between them that had been so nearly severed would grow strong again. It would be her pleasure to foster its growth. "This is my CATHEDRAL OF PEACE," she whispered, snuggling into arms that though heavy with sleep yet reached out to draw her within their protecting strength. THE END SONG OF NIGHT Caravene Gillies Twilight closes the doors of the world; Shadows creep, and moonbeams keep Their silent watch. As countless lanterns of night appear, The crickets call to grasses tall To join their dance. Then to the muted songs of birds Flowers sleep, while green trees keep Nightly vigil. Great orange moon looks down, serene; The river's chime keeps rhythmic time ? To the night owl's song. The silvery lake is all at rest; From a hollow log the croaking frog Calls to his mate. The cloak of night is drawn secure; All sorrows cease; the world's at peace At the end of day. Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. Mlessa ges i rom Netherlands Mission FRANKLIN J. MURDOCK, Church mission secretary and former president of the Netherlands Mission, sent the following report, under date of June 28, 1940, to the General Board: "I had the pleasure yesterday of reading a letter direct from the little war-torn country of Holland. It is the first direct information which we have received relative to conditions there since the invasion of that little country by Germany. The letter was written by Sister Zippro, who is president of the Relief Society. "Sister Zippro is a very intelligent and courageous lady, and we are thankful that the work of the Relief Society is in her hands. She is living in Amsterdam, and just as soon as the two armies had concluded to cease firing, she took her bicycle and bicycled from Amsterdam to Rotterdam, a distance of sixty miles. Naturally, the trains were disrupted and there were no buses running, and she had to depend upon her faithful bicycle to carry her on this journey. It took nine hours to make the trip from Amsterdam to Rotterdam, and the sights which she saw along the way, as she stated, could not be described adequately by her pen. "The terrible destruction of life and property was abundantly exhibited on every hand. She says she has the Missions never seen so many men marching, so many tanks, airplanes, and tractors, which caused a tremendous destruction of life. She left her little family in Amsterdam with her husband and felt the urge to go to Rotterdam to see if there were some unfortunate members whom she could help. This desire seems to me to be the characteristic of a true and noble woman, willing to face the hazards of an invading army in order that the members of our Church might receive some assistance from the Relief Society. She found many families in Rotterdam who had had their homes, furniture, and all earthly belongings completely destroyed and had gone to live with other members temporarily. The old hall in Rotterdam had been completely destroyed, but the new chapel overmass was still intact, and the members were planning to hold Sunday School there. "She visited the members, found out their needs, and immediately set about to raise a collection throughout the mission to care for the unfortunate members who suffered most through the invasion. She is also planning to visit the other members in all branches of the mission and keep the work of the Relief Society moving along. We can all be thankful that we have such a lady as Sister Zippro in the mission in charge NOTES FROM THE FIELD of the Relief Society work, and I am sure that she will measure up to every responsibility which comes to her. Her example of bravery and devotion to a cause which is dear to her heart I feel is worthy of commendation, and I thought you would be interested in having this direct word which has just come. "We have started a collection here among all the Dutch people and have already collected nearly $400, which will be sent as soon as assurance is given that it will reach there and will be placed in the hands of those for whom it is intended." New Zealand Mission ELVA T. COWLEY, supervisor of women's auxiliary organizations in the New Zealand Mission, sent an interesting report of Relief Society activities, dated April 25, 1940, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "From March 22 to 25, 1940, the Church held its annual conference, or Hui Tau, as it is known among the Maori race, at Nuhaka, Hawkes Bay District, which is centrally located on the North Island. The Relief Society was conspicuous for the part it played in this gathering. We held our officers'-and-teachers' meeting at 8:00 a. M. Sunday morning; forty-nine branches were represented with about 200 women present, "Women came from far-distant places with their husbands and babies. Some of them rode over 450 miles in open trucks and buses up hill and down dale and around numerous curves, taking nineteen hours for the journey. On arrival, they were directed to a large tent or matquee in. Which had been spread new- 627 mown hay. Here they selected a place for their families and spread their blankets. This was their sleeping apartment for the duration of the conference. "In the officers' - and - teachers' meeting, the sisters received instructions for furthering the work in their branches for the coming year, and a vital message on health and cleanliness was given. The spirit of the Lord prevailed in abundance, and at the conclusion of the meeting many expressed the opinion that it was the best meeting of its kind they had attended. "Sunday night at 7:00 p. M. In the large Church hall, the Society, under my direction, presented a pageant called, "The Finding of Moses,' With the lighting, costuming, and lovely music from the Singing Mothers, it was acclaimed by all to be very beautiful. One of the Saints who is a splendid musician had previously mimeographed copies of the music for the pageant, which had been sent to the different branches to be learned. When the time came for their combined appearance, the women were able to blend their voices in beautiful harmony. "On the center of the marae (grounds) was a large marquee for the display of the handwork made throughout the year, at the request of the mission board. Many beautiful applique and patchwork quilts were exhibited, and also made-over clothing for boys and girls. Some of the older Maori sisters whose fingers were not accustomed to pakeha (European) sewing entered their Maori kits, taniko belts, baskets, and mats. These were sold and the money donated to the general fund. Prizes were awarded to MAORI MAT (Exhibited at recent Hui Tau, New Zealand Mission; now on display in Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City) branches and individuals who did the finest work. "Probably the most important work of the conference was done by the sisters of the Mahia District. These women undertook the great task of preparing food for 1500 people three times a day. The organization and dispatch with which this work was accomplished was remarkable. I am sure you would marvel that such delicacies as jello, fruit salad, cakes, pies, cookies, and pickles of several varieties, could be served to such a crowd. "Since the Hui Tau, the sisters have already started to write for quilt patterns and suggestions for next year's project, and some of the quilts have been started. One sister was so thrilled with the knowledge she gained from helping make a quilt that she intends to make one for herself. She said it was the first quilting she had ever done. Another branch, which had worked under great difficulty, was the first to sell its quilt at the Hui Tau; this made the sisters very happy.
"The Relief Society Magazine is being appreciated by these women more and more. We are gradually convincing them of the wonderful help it can give them. In one branch, I was told they have an evening study class with their husbands and use the Magazine for their study material. One sister told me that
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
her husband, who is branch president, uses the Magazine for much of his preaching material. One of the husbands, who is a music director, gets many valuable helps from the music department.
"Just now the feeling of patriotism is strong, and the sisters are offering their services, under the name of Relief Society, to help in any way they can. I have suggested that they use part of their Work-and-Business Day and some of their evenings sewing for the soldiers. They are all enthusiastic, and I am sure that the country of New Zealand will know that there is a charitable organization in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that responds to every call, no matter what creed or color, where human life is concerned."
Samples of hand-made articles exhibited at the recent Hui Tau are
629
on display in the Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah: four types of baskets, a small Maori mat, and a taniko. The picture of these accompany this article. The coarse basket is the kind used to carry kumeras and potatoes. Flax grows in abundance in New Zealand. The women prepare it themselves and make their own dyes out of clay and barks?a very long and tedious process. They make very beautiful mats, which are spread on the floor to sleep on. The taniko work is used for belts, head bands, purses, and for decorating costumes. Sister Cowley is to be commended for her zeal in preserving the art crafts of the Maori sisters and at the same time training the women in the European skills. Sister Cowley says, "I am very pleased with the work of the women.
MAORI BASKETS AND TANIKO BELT (Now on display in Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City)
FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN JAPANESE MISSION, HAWAII (Seated, third from left, is Hazel M. Robertson, mission Relief Society president)
They are not as fortunate as the women in Zion, who have everything to work with and plenty of skilled instructors, but they are trying hard and respond willingly to requests made of them."
Japanese Mission
HAZEL M. ROBERTSON, Relief Society president of the Japanese Mission, sent the accompanying picture of the newly organized Relief Society in this mission. She wrote on July 27, 1940, as follows:
"I am very happy to report that we now have a Relief Society in the Japanese Mission with a membership of eighteen women. As you perhaps know, the Japanese Mission in the Hawaiian Islands was organized only three and one-half years ago, and all our efforts were turned first to building fine Sunday Schools, Primaries, and M. I. A. Organizations, in order to touch the parents through the children. Our Relief Society has been last but not least in our hearts, as we realize what it will mean in the Japanese home.
"Our mission is now organized on four of the islands, and we hope to soon have a Relief Society on each. We are carrying out the lessons as outlined and find them interesting. Especially are the members interested in the theology, handicraft, and lessons on the home and children.
"The Japanese women are very devoted to their homes and families, and the beautiful lessons outlined by the General Board will help them to carry out their ideals in the home."
Northwestern States Mission (Portland, Oregon)
ANN PARKINSON NIBLEY, president of Relief Society in the Northwestern States Mission, wrote on March 17, 1940, a report of progress of Relief Society work in the Northwest, from which the following excerpts are quoted:
"It has been my pleasure to visit many branch organizations and to
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
hold meetings with all six Relief Society district boards the last few months. I find the branch members anxious to cooperate in every way, and they are doing splendid work. They are holding regular board meetings, traveling many miles to visit branch organizations, holding conferences, and union meetings. These district boards are most assuredly strengthening the branch organizations, which now number sixty-two, with a Relief Society membership of over 1300. Some forty-two of these Societies have been organized within the last two and one-half years.
"Two hundred of our members were gained in last year's membership drive, and 311 were gained in this year's drive, making our total over 1300 members, the same number as were in our mission before Portland and Seattle Stakes were organized from parts of the mission.
"We are directly supervising fifteen Societies, including Anchorage and Fairbanks in Alaska. These organizations are too far removed from district centers to attend union meetings or conferences or to be visited by board members. Our branch officers seem very loyal and are cooperating and supporting the district board members, many of these sisters traveling as far as 150 miles or more each way to attend conferences and union meetings.
"In our mission Magazine drive, more of our branches went over the top this year than in any previous year, six Societies gaining from 108 percent to 200 percent. We also had a mission essay contest this year in connection with the membership drive which met with splendid success. Awards were given to the sisters sending in the two best essays,
631
and to membership coordinators and Magazine representatives gaining special recognition in their departments."
Following are interesting items taken from a letter to Sister Nibley from May Oldroyd, Relief Society president of Fairbanks, Alaska:
"I think you will be interested to learn that we have increased our membership from five to eleven members. We hold our meetings every Tuesday afternoon. Four of us live from five to seven miles from Fairbanks, so it is always dark when we return from our meetings, our daylight hours during November, December and January being from three to five hours long. Because of having so few members and being so far apart, we thought best to take only two divisions of the work outlined. We chose theology and literature lessons with a roll-call report of the reading of other outlined lessons, and an occasional work-and-business meeting. This seems very satisfactory, and it is seldom we have a member absent. Our class leaders are efficient, and we have some very interesting meetings.
"Our Church has been asked to broadcast every fifth Sunday over radio station KFAR for a half hour religious service. It is both a thrill and an opportunity for us. Our branch has conducted two successful programs, and we hope to be able to continue these broadcasts.
"It is surprising how many people are becoming interested in our religion. It seems hardly possible that less than two years ago we were only three small families not even organized into a branch. Now we have from thirty to forty persons attending Sunday School each Sunday.
632
"The branch has rented a hall in which we hold Sunday School, but our Relief Society is not included in this, so we must meet with any lady who will open her home to us. This is a disadvantage, as we do not feel at liberty to advertise and invite others to meet with us in private homes, and eleven or twelve women are all one can entertain in most Alaskan living rooms. We feel like singing continually 'give us room that we may dwell.'"
North Central States Mission (Minneapolis, Minn.)
ALMA M. BROADBENT, Relief Society president of North Central States Mission, submitted the following report:
"For the first time in the history of our mission, we were honored with a visit from one of the General Presidents of the Relief Society, President Amy Brown Lyman.
"On June 18, a reception and luncheon were given in her honor in the Minneapolis chapel, at which members of the local Relief Societies of St. Paul, Minneapolis, Brainerd, Princeton, and Monticello had the privilege of greeting her personally. Flowers in blue and gold (our Relief Society colors) were used as decorations. At the luncheon which followed the reception, the place cards were small envelopes containing a picture of President Lyman. A feature of the luncheon was 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', rendered as a trumpet solo by Wilma Thorup. The program which followed included a musical number by members of the St. Paul Singing Mothers, and a number by the Minneapolis Singing Mothers. Short reports were given by the various Relief Society presi-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
dents, after which Sister Lyman gave an inspiring address. She spoke appreciatively of the work done in the missions, encouraging the sisters in their work and emphasizing the importance of spirituality, kindness, consideration, and loyalty to each other. She encouraged them to live close to our Heavenly Father and to do their best; in her very words, 'Give the best that is in you. Be the best of whatever you are.' As a closing number, the song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', was sung by the entire group.
"Elder Richard R. Lyman, of the Council of the Twelve, and President Amy Brown Lyman also attended inspiring conferences at Duluth, Minnesota, and at Winnipeg, Canada. Following the meeting at Duluth, a dinner was served by the Relief Society members for Elder and Sister Lyman, President and Sister Broadbent, for the mission secretary, W. Ashby Robison, and the missionaries."
Argentine Mission
LORRAINE S. WILLIAMS, president of Relief Society in the Argentine Mission, wrote on June 14, 1940, of activities in this mission as follows:
"Our sisters had no opportunity to study music before being contacted by the elders. But in spite of this, we organized a group of Singing Mothers who furnished the music for our two semi-annual conferences in 1939; they had joy in singing.
"We held a Mothers' and Daughters' banquet the 18th of November, at which there were 127 mothers and daughters in attendance. The food was prepared by the mothers, the tables and decorations by the daugh-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
ters. The elders served the banquet so that every sister could be seated. A program and toasts were given during the meal.
"All of our Relief Societies hold branch conferences, with the presidents conducting. The Rosario Branch compiled and published a cook book and are selling it throughout the mission. It was an interesting project as well as a means of adding to their funds.
"We feel that the Relief Society organization is truly a blessing to the women of the Argentine. It is a
633
source of development and enrichment of life to them.
"I should like to express my own appreciation for the Magazine. It is truly a friend and a guiding hand always.
"We are trying to store food and clothing for future use. Prices are raising every day, and most of our Saints have but a meager living at best. There are no adequate facilities for bottling or canning foods. These people eat entirely different from us; spaghetti, macaroni, meat, yerba mate and bread comprise the largest part of their diet."
AUTUMN
Beatrice E. Linford
How I love these autumn days With their gorgeous crimson sprays Swaying in the breeze, With their dim enchanting haze And their arrogant displays Of color in the trees.
How I love the crispy air, The warm sunshine gleaming there On my kitchen door. These of all the days are rare Just before the earth is bare And so very poor.
There's a mystic call I feel, Through my blood I feel it steal. Really I must go To the woods?I cannot rest? To the fields, upon my quest For autumn's beauty.
I shall climb the mountain side, I shall tramp my way, not ride, Or I shall not see Some bright splendor on the way, Some last flower or color gay That was meant for me.
God, I love Thy lovely earth Filled with beauty, joy and mirth; Each exquisite design Found in leaf, and flower, and vine Is but proof to me of Thine Omnipotence?divine.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Ready For Rehearsal?
IF you are to be the conductor of a singing group this year, you have problems in common with many others, and we may profitably discuss some of them together. Our first consideration might well be a few qualifications that are desirable, as well as ways in which we may increase our ability to fill this position satisfactorily.
Being a chorister presupposes musical knowledge, but with this must go eagerness and ambition that find ways for constant improvement. By being alert and a good listener, one may add much to his knowledge, without any financial obligation. Conducting privately before a mirror may prove helpful; also, beating time to the radio or phonograph may improve technique. Enthusiasm, generous effort, a love for song that is contagious, and a good sense of humor will do much to bring success.
Plan rehearsals well in advance so that definite goals may be reached. Be entirely familiar with compositions to be practiced?as complete numbers and with each separate part. Anticipate difficult passages and be prepared to handle them. Present the message of the song before practicing it; for, "words are jewels made to shine and sparkle through musical tones that enhance their beauty and meaning." Information concerning the composer adds interest.
Be sure the room is well lighted and ventilated. Be business-like, starting on time, so that members will feel that their time and efforts are not wasted. Because people learn by doing, do a great deal of singing and not much talking; however, a period for relaxation is necessary, and announcements could be made then. Know your singers and make the goal within their possibilities, so they may have the satisfaction of success.
There is a wide choice of material in The Relief Society Song Book that can be used by all. To sing good hymns well is more creditable than to give a poor rendition of an anthem. There is joy in singing familiar songs; however, strive always to enlarge and improve repertoires, keeping standards high, as in the past. Build up to the difficult. When beginning the study of new music, directors differ in methods of procedure, but the following usually brings good results: "Sing it through with the accompaniment, sink or swim fashion, getting a glimpse of the piece as a whole. Then, take it in sections and concentrate on one thing at a time."
For solo work, when possible, give different members the benefit of experience. The singing of the chorus is "good or bad, vital or dull, according to the guiding influence of the director." The stronger she feels the message of the music, the greater the force with which the chorus conveys it to the congregation. In this work, let us remember that we are working with human beings subject to changing conditions and emotions, as we ourselves are. Members come to rehearsal in varying moods; whatever their moods may be, it is within the power of the conductor to clear the atmosphere and send singers away feeling better than when they came. So let us be ready for rehearsals.
EXCERPTS FROM DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"No earthly argument, no earthly reasoning can open the minds of intelligent beings and show them heavenly things; that can only be done by the Spirit of revelation." (p. 56)
"There is no music in hell, for all good music belongs to heaven." (p. 243)
"I would as soon see a man worshiping a little god made of brass or of wood as to see him worship his property." (p. 485)
"The wicked do not know how to enjoy life, but the closer we live to God the better we know and understand how to enjoy it." (p. 122)
"God has revealed all the truth that is now in the possession of the world, whether it be scientific or religious." (p. 2)
"Of one thing I am sure: God never institutes war; God is not the author of confusion or of war; they are the results of the acts of the children of men. Confusion and war necessarily come as the results of the foolish acts and policy of men; but they do not come because God desires they should come. If the people, generally, would turn to the Lord, there would never be any war." (p. 562)
"I can say with regard to parting with our friends, and going ourselves, that I have been near enough to understand eternity so that I have had to exercise a great deal more faith to desire to live than I ever exercised in my whole life to live. The brightness and glory of the next apartment is inexpressible. It is not encumbered so that when we advance in years we have to be stubbing along and be careful lest we fall down.... But yonder, how different! They move with ease and like lightning.... If we want to behold Jerusalem as it was in the days of the Savior; or if we want to see the Garden of Eden as it was when created, there we are, and we see it as it existed spiritually, for it was created first spiritually and then temporally, and spiritually it still remains." (pp. 582, 583)
"Thrust a man into prison and bind him with chains, and then let him be filled with the comfort and with the glory of eternity, and that prison is a palace to him. Again, let a man be seated upon a throne with power and dominion in this world, ruling his millions and millions and without that peace which flows from the Lord of Hosts... His palace is a prison; his life is a burden to him; he lives in fear, in dread, and in sorrow." (p. 51)
"You cannot give any persons their exaltation unless they know what evil is, what sin, sorrow, and misery are, for no person could comprehend, appreciate and enjoy an exaltation upon any other principle." (pp. 85, 86)
"We can have all the experiences we need, without sinning ourselves; therefore, we will not sin that good may come; we will not transgress the law of God that we may know the opposite." (pp. 118, 119)
"I want to see men and women breathe the Holy Ghost in every breath of their lives, living constantly in the light of God's countenance." (p. 48)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 3
A Practical Religion?Brigham Young (Tuesday, December 3)
"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?" (James 2:14)
OF the seventy-six years that elapsed between the birth of Brigham Young on June 1, 1801, and his death in August, 1877, forty-two were spent in the presiding councils of the Church. For thirty-three years he presided over its destiny, and these years proved to be among the most crucial for the existence of the Restored Church. By nature, experience, and divine endowment he was well fitted as successor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Being strong physically, he had the stamina to face the vicissitudes of pioneer life. He had the ability to make friends and hold the allegiance of those whom he directed. Close contact with the Prophet had taught him the ways of the Lord and the ultimate destiny of the Church. While the Prophet was incarcerated in Missouri prisons during the winter of 1838-1839, he had managed the exodus of the Saints from Missouri, which served as excellent training for the great trek to the West that was soon to follow. His humility, sincerity and keen spiritual sense made him a worthy successor to receive the inspiration of the Lord for the welfare of the infant Church.
THE CHURCH IN THE GREAT BASIN. Once settled within the protecting ranges of the Rockies, Brigham Young and those associated with him in the presiding councils of the Church undertook a task that has won the acclaim of the world. Outwardly, it was to conquer the forces of nature and make fruitful fields of the barren wastes. But in the mind of Brigham Young, this practical side was but a means toward an end. Colonization, agricultural success, industrialization, and economic independence were stressed by him. Even the religious services on Sunday were often devoted to the furtherance of these vital phases of existence, until visiting observers sometimes said the Mormon Church was but a business organization. But back of all the stress placed upon success in these worldly pursuits was the concept in the leader's mind of the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth. The various settlements were naught but the driving of the stakes of the tabernacle of Zion more firmly into the earth, The industries and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
agriculture were more than just means of existence. They furnished work which developed Christian character and habits of industry, provided the financial means by which the Church was able to continue its redeeming work for the souls of men, and were the support of the missionary system. Never were success in overcoming the obstacles of nature or the accumulation of wealth lauded for their own sakes. They were only commendable when they enabled the possessor to further "The Kingdom."
THE KINGDOM OF GOD ON EARTH. From the standpoint of Brigham Young, the Kingdom of God was threefold, consisting of the temporal salvation of man, the missionary work to save the world, and the spiritual enrichment of those who had allied themselves with the Kingdom. Hence, religion became an integral part of life in its entirety and not a phase of worship or thinking entirely divorced from the conduct of daily life. He once said, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday must be spent to the Glory of God, as much as Sunday, or we shall come short of the object of our pursuit." (Journal of Discourses 13:26) While pious critics have even said that Brigham Young's admixture of religion and the practical phases of life were sacrilegious, one need only turn to the Old Testament prophets or the Epistle of James to see that true religion is more than a mental assent or a passive attitude. In leading latter-day Israel in its economic, social, and political, as well as its religious advancement, Brigham Young was inspired as God has in-
637
spired His prophets in all ages of the world.
1. The Temporal Salvation of Man. Upon entering the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Mormon pioneers were faced with a very practical situation. They must make it sustain them or they would perish. They might have set about to conquer the wilderness individually, as pioneers elsewhere so often did. Instead, their inspired leader had a different plan. It consisted of community colonization, whereby the cooperative effort of the group could subdue physical obstacles, afford protection from hostile Indians, provide for its own needy, care for the education of young and old, while spiritual strength was afforded by Church worship. But it is interesting to observe that Brigham Young attributed this plan to the Prophet Joseph. The very city-plan adopted for Salt Lake and most of the Mormon settlements in the Rocky Mountains, followed the plan given by Joseph Smith for use in laying out "Zion" in Missouri. Having selected colonists for a specific site, so that a variety of occupations and talents were included, they were encouraged to become self-supporting. Cotton, silk-worm, sugar beet, fruit and nut cultures were started, as well as the raising of staple grains and vegetables. Irrigation, of necessity, was developed. Leather, clothing, sugar, silk, cotton, woolen, iron, brick, stone, paper, and other industries were established. Cooperative merchandising was instituted. Education of children was made an obligation of parents and the community, but formal book learning was not enough. Both boys and girls were taught useful occupations
638
as well as the arts. In all these activities, the education was given under the guidance of the spirit of the Lord. Sensing the psychological principle that recreation is needed for good mental and physical health, the Church fostered the play-life of the community, for the purpose of affording constructive recreation.
2. Missionary Work. While building Zion in the tops of the mountains, Brigham Young was not forgetful of the need of increasing the membership of the Church, that it might fulfil its destiny. The missionary work in Europe was extended to include most of the European nations. A more systematic organization of the missions to cover the North American continent and the islands of the sea, as well as those in oriental lands, was effected. The organization of the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company was designed to facilitate the gathering of the nations to the new Zion.
3. Spiritual Welfare. While it is true that Brigham Young placed great emphasis on the practical phases of life, the world has been too prone to forget that he was equally great as a spiritual teacher. The numerous sermons in the Journals of Discourses attest a spirituality that was able to reveal divine truths. He pushed to completion the St. George Temple and selected the sites for the Salt Lake, Manti and Logan temples, indicating his great interest in the salvation for the dead as well as the living.
ATTITUDE TOWARD WOMEN. Not only did Brigham Young believe in civil equality for women, but he had some advanced ideas for his day concerning their place in so-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
ciety. He thought that women should first of all become good wives and mothers, but before marriage and after the children were grown to maturity there were years in which useful service could be rendered outside the home. So he encouraged them to become bookkeepers, accountants, typesetters, telegraph operators, dressmakers, teachers, storekeepers, nurses, midwives and doctors. Furthermore, not only could they be of service to the community and Church through the Relief Society, but he approved them as members of school boards and leaders in civic affairs.
BRIGHAM YOUNG'S CARDINAL VIRTUES. Abhorring idleness, dishonesty and unethical conduct, the great pioneer leader's characteristics were industry, honesty, thrift, sobriety, temperance, chastity, justice, love of children, compassion for the sufferer, and humility.
CONFESSION OF DEBT TO JOSEPH SMITH. Repeatedly throughout his sermons he attributed what he did to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On one occasion he said, "... What I have received from the Lord I have received by Joseph Smith. He was the instrument made use of. If I drop him, I must drop these principles. They have not been revealed, declared, or explained by any other man, since the days of the Apostles."
AN APPRAISAL OF BRIGHAM YOUNG. Summarizing the place of Brigham Young in the settlement of the West, B. H. Roberts gives the following estimate of his greatness: "These achievements
LESSON DEPARTMENT
write down Brigham Young as the Greatest Pioneer and Colonizer of modern times?an Empire Founder; and place him easily among the first score of Great Americans." (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, page 513)
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. Pioneering on the American Frontier was extremely difficult for the women and resulted in much physical and mental suffering and premature death. Mormon communities, however, were not greatly plagued by these evils. To what extent do you think the Relief Society of the Church was responsible for this? What other factors in Mormon colonization do you think may have helped to prevent these tragedies?
2. What influence did Doctrine and Covenants 68:30 and 75:28, 29 have on Brigham Young's attitude toward industriousness?
3. What purpose do you suppose Brigham Young had in mind in establishing numerous settlements throughout the Intermountain Region, rather than in encouraging the settlement of a few large cities?
4. What practical message for today's problems can we learn from Brigham Young's plan of cooperatives?
5. How do you account for Brigham Young's liberal attitude toward the place of women in society?
Topics for Study, and Special Reports
1. Comment on this statement of Professor Thomas Nixon Carver of Harvard University: "I have never found more sound and wholesome personal habits than
639
among the Mormons. I have never mingled with people who showed fewer signs of dissipation. I have never studied groups of people who seemed better nourished and more healthy. I have never known people who took more pains to educate their children. This gives a clue to the success of the Mormons as colonizers and nation builders." (The Westerner, April, 1930)
2. Read the quotations from Brigham Young's sermon, printed on pages 264-265 of Nibley's Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, and comment on his advice in view of our present-day society.
3. Read chapter 35 of Discourses of Brigham Young and report on some of the spiritual instruction given in his sermons.
References
Wm. E. Berrett, The Restored Church, pp. 359-454. Discourses of Brigham Young. Contains numerous quotations from his sermons, topically arranged. Deseret News, Church Section, "A Contrast in Civilizations," Glynn Bennion, September 9, 1939. Very good on Brigham Young's reason for discouraging the Saints to mine for precious metals, Improvement Era, "Utah's Pioneer Women Doctors," by Claire Wilcox Noall. A series of articles commencing in the January, 1939, issue, pp. 16 ff. John Henry Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 369-439. Susa Y. Gates and Leah D. Widtsoe, Life Story of Brigham Young, pp. 114-154; 199-309; 320-380. Preston Nibley, Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, pp. 534-542. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 3, pp. 268-283; 382-498; Vol. 5, pp. 76-131; 216-238; 509-518. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 565-574.
"HE (Brigham Young) was always one with the people, and thousands familiarly called him 'Brother Brigham.' He did not set himself up to be great; he set himself up to be a servant of God, and he was one, in word and in deed." (Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, Preston Nibley)
Visiting Teacher
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 3
Divisions of Priesthood?The Melchizedek Priesthood (Tuesday, December 3)
"An understanding of the power of the Priesthood and its proper use precludes all feeling of any possible jealousy by either men or women." (Priesthood and Church Government, p. 89)
"THERE are, in the Church, two priesthoods; namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic.... Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest." (Doc. And Cov. 107:1-2)
"The Melchizedek Priesthood comprehends the Aaronic and is the grand head and holds the highest authority which pertains to the Priesthood." (Teachings of Joseph Smith, p. 167)
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained to this Priesthood by Peter, James and John, between May 15 and the end of June, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. The keys and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood were given to Peter, James and John by the Lord Jesus Christ, when he was upon the earth, and they were commissioned by him to restore them to the earth in the dispensation of the fullness of times. (See Gospel Doctrine, p. 242.)
In the Doctrine and Covenants we are told: "The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and authority over all the offices in the Church in all ages of the world, to administer in spiritual things." (Doc. And Cov. 107:8)
The offices in this priesthood are elder, seventy, and high priest. In order to understand fully the Priesthood and its offices and power requires study. President Joseph F. Smith said: "The word and the law of God are as important for women who would reach wise conclusions as they are for men; and women should study and consider the problems of this great latter-day work from the standpoint of God's revelations." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 364)
Home Discussion Helps
A woman shares all the blessings that come to her husband through his priesthood. The family relationships are formed for eternity by authority and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 3
Your Teeth and Your Bones (Tuesday, December 19)
TEETH which last a lifetime and bones which are strong and straight depend on good building materials while they are being formed and throughout the entire life span. The same blood stream feeds all the body cells. If this blood stream carries the essential food nutrients for good nutrition, the teeth and bones will have what they need for building and maintenance. Ninety-five per cent of America's school children have seriously defective teeth. Far too many young adults have lost all of their teeth. Estimates show about 80 per cent of our adult population with bone deformities due to having had rickets in infancy.
THE TEETH. Teeth begin their formation by the third month of pregnancy. All the teeth are under construction before birth. At birth all of the 20 temporary teeth are inside the jaw and their crowns are almost completely calcified. Calcium and phosphorus are the most essential building materials for the teeth. Vitamins A, C, and D provide conditions for the utilization of the calcium and phosphorus. The entire tooth structure, including the inside pulp section, the dentine, the enamel, the cementum which holds the teeth in the jaw, and the gums may be damaged if these vitamins are left out of the diet. A diet which is fully adequate for good general nutrition will insure the teeth the necessary minerals and vitamins. Milk and other dairy products, vegetables of the leafy green, and yellow classes, tomatoes and citrus fruits will provide calcium and phosphorus and the A and C vitamins. Cod liver and other fish liver oils are our only rich sources of the D vitamin. These foods are part of a fully adequate food supply.
CAUSES OF TOOTH DECAY. The two general theories as to causes of tooth decay may be classed as external and internal. The external theory is the oldest and probably is accepted by the largest number of dentists. According to this theory, bacteria act upon carbohydrates, causing fermentation. This produces an acid which dissolves the enamel so that decay into the tooth structure takes place. The internal theory holds that tooth decay comes by way of the blood stream. The tooth, from the outside enamel to the inside pulp, is a living organ and needs a constant supply of material to maintain and repair it. Exponents of both theories agree that a good diet goes a long way in preventing tooth decay. The 1939 American Dental Association convention reported the prevalent American diet, which is high in starch and sugar, is one of the chief causes of tooth decay. A diet high in starch and sugar is usually low in the protective foods.
CARE OF TEETH. Complete removal of all food particles from
642
the teeth and between them with dental floss and tooth brush at least twice daily is important in good tooth care. Examination and cleaning of the teeth by the dentist every six months, together with any needed repair, is essential to tooth protection.
THE BONES. Rickets is the most common cause of bone deformities. This disease comes from poor utilization of calcium and phosphorus in the bone tissue. Vitamin D is essential, along with calcium and phosphorus, in the prevention of rickets. Rickets is most prevalent during the first two years of life. It may develop during any period of rapid bone growth and is quite common during adolescence. Rickets affects the whole body, but its greatest damage comes from the failure of the bones to calcify properly, and results in bone deformities. These deformities may be knock-knees, bowed legs, enlarged ankles and wrists, bulging forehead, chest deformities, narrow space in pelvic and jaw regions. Rickets does damage to the teeth. Teeth are slow to erupt; they frequently are poorly formed, poorly spaced, and poorly calcified. They decay easily.
RECIPES
Cream of Parsley Soup
2 cups thin white sauce ? cup fresh parsley, chopped fine
Add parsley to white sauce just before serving so that parsley is hot but not cooked. This protects against loss of vitamin C in the parsley.
Cheese Souffle (Serves six)
1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon butter ? teaspoon paprika ? cup milk
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
? cup grated cheese
Make white sauce from these ingredients
3 eggs
Add cheese and slightly beaten egg yolk to white sauce. Beat egg whites until stiff and dry; fold into white sauce mixture. Pour into buttered baking dish, Place dish in pan of hot water and bake in slow oven until a knife inserted comes out dry.
Welsh Rarebit (Serves six)
6 tablespoons butter 6 tablespoons flour 3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 1 cup grated cheese
Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk and salt. Beat eggs slightly. Pour milk mixture over eggs. Cook over water until mixture thickens, Add grated cheese and stir until cheese is melted. Serve over spinach, carrots or other vegetables, or on toast, crackers, brown rice, etc.
Carrot Custard (Serves six)
3 eggs 1? cups mashed, cooked carrots 3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted butter
Beat the eggs slightly, add the carrot and other ingredients, pour into an oiled baking dish; place on a rack in a pan of hot water. Have the water as high in the pan surrounding the baking dish or custard cups as the custard is on the inside. This insures a more uniform temperature, which will result in a better quality custard. Bake in a moderate oven (300? F.) for about one hour, or until the custard is set in the center. Serve at once.
Tomato Jelly
2 level tablespoons gelatine ? cup cold water 3? cups canned tomatoes 2 tablespoons onion juice ? bay leaf 1 stalk celery Few grains cayenne 2 tablespoons mild vinegar or 2 tablespoons lemon juice Few grains salt
Soak gelatine in cold water about five
LESSON DEPARTMENT
minutes. Mix remaining ingredients, except vinegar; bring to boiling point and let boil 10 minutes. Add vinegar and soaked gelatine. When gelatine is dissolved, strain, turn into wet molds and chill. Remove from molds to bed of shredded cabbage. Use dressing as desired. Shredded vegetables may be molded with the jelly.
643
References
The Foundations of Nutrition, Rose. (See index for references to teeth and bones.) "Human Nutrition", U. S. D. A. Year Book, chapters on minerals and vitamins. "Your Child's Teeth", Children's Bureau Folder No. 12, U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C.
Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 3
Adam Bede (Tuesday, December 17)
Lesson Topics
1. Review
2. Some of the ideals and philosophies found in the novel
3. The author's philosophy
Review
LESSON two considered the setting and characters of the novel, emphasizing the intellectual and ethical values to be found in these two phases of the book. It was shown that a great body of interesting and useful information of a general character may be gained without any conscious effort while reading a novel. In this novel, for instance, the reader learns about 19th century England, not as he would from studying it historically, but as he would by living with the people of that time. He learns of the various institutions?the home, the workshops, the church, and so on ? through seeing the activities that go on within them. He becomes acquainted with the geography, history, and sociology of the time, not as isolated subjects, but as a background for the story, which enables him to live in a past age. The ethical values to be gained from a study of characterization were suggested in lesson two. The novelist reveals character through actions, speech, attitudes, reactions to others. By so doing, she helps the reader to understand what makes people behave as they do. She shows what circumstances and influences make the characters what they are. Knowing such facts, the reader understands the characters and sympathizes with their struggles. Many details learned through a study of the novel can be carried over into actual life, giving one a greater understanding of his neighbors and of himself. The reader is indirectly warned against attitudes and actions which he has seen bring unhappiness or disintegration. He is inspired to emulate attitudes and actions which he has seen bring happiness and success.
644
Ideals and Philosophies
One of the greatest needs of any individual is a philosophy of life, a set of standards and principles to guide his daily conduct. It is his philosophy of life which makes him strive toward definite ideals. The philosophies and ideals of the characters in a book help the reader to formulate his own. We become like that with which we associate. Living for a time very intimately with a man like Adam Bede cannot but make the reader something like him; for truly, we are a part of all that we meet, whether outside of books or within them.
Hetty's wasted life is the result of the lack of a guiding philosophy or ideals. She was vain; she lacked sympathy and affection. She did not understand how anyone could be fond of middle-aged people; and, as for children, they were "as bad as buzzing insects on a hot day, teasing you when you want to be quiet." Her aunt says of her: "She's no better than a peacock as 'ud strut about on the wall and spread its tail if all the folks in the parish was dying.... Ther's nothing seems to give her a turn inside.... It's my belief her heart is as hard as a pebble." There was feeling in Hetty, but it took a great tragedy to find it, and then it was too late; she had ruined her life.
Opposite to her is Dinah, who loves everyone and whose life is guided by definite and high ideals. "Her eyes seemed rather to be shedding love than making observations; they had the liquid look which tells that the mind is full of what it has to give out, rather than impressed by external objects... They looked so simple, so candid, so gravely loving that no accusing scowl, no light
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
sneer, could help melting away before their glance.... She looked like St. Catherine in a Quaker's dress."
"She said: 'I could sit silent all day long with the thought of God overflowing my soul, as the pebbles lie bathed in the brook. For thoughts are so great.... They seem to lie upon us like a deep flood.' "
The book is filled with impressive statements by the different characters, which reveal their philosophies and which could well help to shape our own. Space will permit quoting but a few of them:
Adam?"It's well we should feel as life's a reckoning we can't make twice over; there's no real making amends in this world, any more nor you can mend a wrong substraction by doing your addition right."
Regarding Seth's love for Dinah?"Love of this sort is hardly distinguishable from religious feeling. All deep and worthy love is so, whether of woman or child, or art or music... Our caresses, our tender words, our still rapture under the influence of autumn sunsets or Beethoven symphonies all bring with them a consciousness that they are mere waves and ripples in an unfathomable ocean of love and beauty."
Regarding Adam's feeling after his father's death?"When death, the great Reconciler, has come, it is never our tenderness that we repent of, but our severity."
Dinah?"We can all be servants of God no matter where our lot is cast, but He gives us different sorts of work according as He fits us for it and calls us to it."
Mrs. Poyser?"We shall all on us be dead some time, I reckon?it 'ud be better if folks 'ud make much on us beforehand, istid o' beginnin' when we're gone. It's but little good you'll do watering last year's crop."
She thought of Mr. Craig?"It's a pity he couldn't be hatched o'er again and hatched different."
"I'd sooner ha' brewin' day and washin' day together than one o' these pleasurin' days. There's no work so tirin' as danglin' about and starin' and not rightly knowin' what you're goin' to do next."
Adam?"Ther's many a good bit o'
LESSON DEPARTMENT
work done with a sad heart.... Ah, that's a blessed time... When the outward light is fading and the body is a little wearied with its work and its labor. Then the inward light shines the brighter, and we have a deeper sense of resting on the Divine strength."
There are numberless such passages revealing the various characters. The philosophy of each is significant in the story and in its influence upon the reader. But more important than any of these is the philosophy of the author herself, who has watched life and has a definite reaction to it.
The Author's Philosophy and Ideals
In the first chapter of Book Second, George Eliot speaks directly to her readers of her own feelings about life and the function of a writer. This self-revelation is intensely interesting and gives us a sense of gratitude that we have made the acquaintance of such a high-minded person. The entire chapter should be read, but a few sentences will show the nature of the whole:
"The highest function of the artist is to reflect life as it is. My strongest effort is to give a faithful account of men and things as they have mirrored themselves upon my mind.... I would not, even if I had the choice, be the clever novelist who could create a world so much better that you would turn a colder eye on the real breathing men and women.... I am content to tell my simple story without trying to make things seem better than they were, dreading nothing but falsity?falsity is so easy, truth so difficult.... Examine your words well.... It is very hard to say the exact truth even about your own immediate feelings." She finds significance in commonplace things. She calls upon art to paint its angels and Madonnas but not to banish from the region of art "those old women scraping carrots with their work-worn hands... Those stupid, weather-beaten 645 faces that have bent over the spade and the rough work of the world.... In the world there are so many of these common, coarse people! It is so needful that we should remember their existence, else we may happen to leave them out of our religion and philosophy.... Therefore, let art always remind us of them. Let us always have men ready to give the loving pause of a life to the faithful representing of commonplace things, and delight in showing how kindly the light of heaven falls on them.... There are few prophets in the world; few sublimely beautiful women; few heroes. I can't afford to give all my love and reverence to such rarities. I want a great deal of my feelings for my everyday fellow men." The philosophy of the author herself, so given, is one of the precious gains from the novel; for, as Philo N. Buck, an eminent critic, says, "It is these vital philosophies of the great writers themselves as they come to us warm and concrete from their own vivid experiences?their ideas on the meaning and value of life? that lend to their work the highest significance. They show us the deeper secrets of human nature and its powers and destinies, and by that vision our lives are made richer." Study Helps 1. Give a list of definite, interesting facts, independent of the story, that you have learned from Adam Bede. 2. Relate some part of the story which stirred your emotions. Try to analyze your emotional reaction to it. Did it deepen your sympathy or understanding, heighten your admiration for certain traits of character, etc.? 3. Give a character sketch of Adam, Seth, Dinah or any other character who has contributed definitely to you ethically, Mlustrate in what way; such as, making you more keenly aware of the need of defnite guiding principles in life, of the significance of commonplace people and things. Social Service Inasmuch as Christmas occurs during the fourth week in December, no Family Relationship lesson is planned for this month. Mission Lesson LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired ) Lesson 12 The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith |(Tuesday, December 17) IN the Doctrine and Covenants is this very striking statement, put there after the death of the Prophet: "Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and a name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood." It is too bad that a man who brought happiness and salvation to hundreds of thousands of men and women, and injury to no one, should have been killed by a mob of angry men. How was it that feelings of bitterness and hate were so aroused against him? OU may remember the reception which the Saints received when they first entered Illinois. There were two reasons for this reception: One was that the hearts of the people were touched at the plight of the Mormons; the other was that the state was in need of taxpayers. In spite of their unhappy lot in Missouri, the Saints had a reputation for industry. The newcomers would, therefore, share the increasing burden of public debt. The Mormon people did not waste any time in going to work. Almost overnight, they created a town that Tlinois might be proud of. People came from all over the nation, and some even from distant lands, to see the miracle of Nauvoo. It was at the time the largest town in the state. We sometimes think of the Prophet as always despised by his countrymen. This is not quite true. During the early years of the town, when it LESSON DEPARTMENT was growing so fast and wonderfully, he was famous throughout the country. More than one great newspaper said he was among the great Americans. The truth is, he attracted wide and even favorable attention when people looked at what he had done in Nauvoo. But this success proved, in part, his undoing. You know how jealous towns can become of one another. Two towns in particular became jealous of Nauvoo?Wartsaw and Carthage. They wanted to grow, too, but they did not. They had real estate agents who wanted to make money, and so certain classes of men in these towns did not feel very -well toward Nauvoo and its chief builder. That was one source of ill will toward the Prophet. Another source was politics. Not only were the mature male members of the Church taxpayers, but they were voters as well. In Illinois, as in every other state, there were two political parties. These were the Democrats and the Whigs. Unfortunately for the Saints, as it turned out, the two parties were about equally divided. In the elections, rivalry was very keen. As you can easily imagine, each party courted the favor of the Mormons, especially of Joseph Smith, whom the members of the Church thought so much of and who had such influence with them. How would the Mormons vote in the next election? Would they vote in a body, or would they divide into Whigs and Democrats? The candidates for office would have to wait and see. But meantime, they could pay court to the newcomers and their leader. 647 As time went on, the Mormons voted according to what they believed to be their own best interests. When the Democrats won, the Whigs became angry at the Saints. The same was true if the other side - won?the Democrats were angry. At last, both sides came to dislike the Mormons. This was, then, another source of hatred against the Prophet; for, in the end, he got the blame. A third source of hatred arose within the Church. Some men who wished to be prominent, but could not be, were vexed at the Prophet on that account. Joseph loved his people, and they loved him in return. No man could take his place in their affection, These disappointed men, in 1844, joined forces with his enemies on the outside, and the effect was bad for him. THE occasion of the difficulty between the Prophet and those 'who brought about his death was something that happened in Nauvoo. Some apostates thought they would publish a paper in opposition to the periodicals put out by the Church. They gave it the suggestive name of The Expositor. 'This meant that it would "expose" something that went on in Nauvoo. Only one issue came out, however, because the City Council decided to suppress it as a nuisance?which it undoubtedly was. It was filled with slander against the prominent men in the town, especially Joseph Smith. Results followed quickly. Two days later, Constable Bettisworth called on the mayor and served a writ on him and the members of the Council. They were jointly charged with having "committed a 648 riot at and within the county." At the suggestion of a non-Mormon, they were all tried before a non-Mormon judge in Nauvoo, and acquitted. But this would not satisfy certain persons in the county. They wanted the Prophet tried in Carthage. Joseph appealed to the Governor, Thomas Ford. Would his Excellency come to Nauvoo and _ investigate? Governor Ford said he would. Instead of going to Nauvoo, however, he went to Carthage, where many of the Prophet's enemies were, who had gathered from various parts of that county and other counties. From Carthage, the Governor sent word to Joseph that he would like to have a committee come to him from Nauvoo, to consult about the case. The Prophet sent Dr. Bernhisel, John Taylor, and Dr. Willard Richards, all of whom knew the facts about the situation. The Governor then asked the Prophet to come himself to Carthage, and he gave his word that no harm would come to him or anyone with him. Naturally, Joseph did not want to go to Carthage. Here all his enemies had congregated. He said so to the Governor, but the Governor insisted. Instead of going there, however, Joseph, with two or three others, crossed the river into Iowa, with the intention of going to the West himself and later sending for all his people. They would settle in the Rocky Mountains, where there were no people except Indians. Some false friends, however, came to him in Jowa and charged him with deserting his people in their need. This was virtually a charge of cowardice on his part?something not in his nature. He said, "If my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940 life is of no value to my friends, it is of no value to myself." Then he and his companions returned to Nauvoo. Very soon they went to Carthage, Joseph to be tried shortly. He seemed to know that he would be murdered. On the way there, he said, "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter." To Hyrum, who went with him, he said, "We shall be butchered." On reaching Carthage, he, his brother Hyrum, and some others were put into the jail. There was no law by which this was done, but it was done anyway. Then the Governor went to Nauvoo, breaking his promise to Joseph in doing so. Thus, the Prophet was left to the mercy of those who had sworn to take his life. On the afternoon of June 27, 1844, a mob shot Joseph and Hyrum to death and severely wounded John Taylor. Only Dr. Richards escaped. The cowardly deed was over in two minutes. Questions 1. How does the Church regard Joseph Smith? What are the things named here that he did? 2. Why did his enemies want to kill the Prophet? Give three reasons. 3. What was the occasion of the trouble? 4. Tell the story of how the Prophet went to Carthage. 5. What is your opinion of the Governor? Why do you hold this opinion? Hymn to be Read or Sung "The Seer, Joseph the Seer." This poem was written by John Taylor, who became the third President of the Church. He was born in England, in 1808, went to Canada in his youth, and was converted by Parley P. Pratt, in 1836. In 1839 he was made an apostle. You may remember that he was wounded in Carthage Jail at the time of the Martyrdom. The Seer, LESSON DEPARTMENT of course, was Joseph Smith. The first stanza tells of the sacredness to the author of the Prophet's memory; the second, of the Seer's work for mankind; the third, of his love for the Saints; the fourth, 649 of his freedom from the strife and woes of earth. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. Night Jane Romney Crawford HAT is night? For one it is a time of deep sleep, to be broken by the annoying ring of an alarm clock; for another it is alternating hours of. Sleep and wakefulness; for still another it is a time when nerves are in rebellion and sleep refuses to be won. How do you live the night? For you who sleep it through, nothing need be done; but for you who suffer from insomnia there is a way to bring about a night of tranquility and repose. It is important to form the habit of anticipating bedtime with a calmness that encourages relaxation. Enter your bedroom abounding in grace and kindness; leave the day's burden behind you; let your thoughts be at peace with the world; rather than chide yourself for small failures, inwardly give praise to yourself for the accomplishments of the day; let the evening be as a benediction to you. Roll back the curtains, that the moon's soft light may fill your room. Lift up your eyes. See the clouds. How they change before you! Let them carry your thoughts to the protecting hand of the Creator. How He blesses us when He causes night to come! Think how pleasant solitude may be; learn to love still things and silent places. Notice the surrounding houses, how hushed they are, with rarely a stir of life. As this glory unfolds itself, you can hear night's symphony. The whispering of the winds as they filter through the trees and the pitterpatter of the rain as it taps against the windowpane or softly touches the earth, soothe the soul. A chorus of crickets reminds us of community singing at its best, when all participate whole-heartedly. You might go on and on, filling in more hours than the night affords for wakefulness, but sleep is prone to creep on unawares when fear and anxiety are banished. In any case, whether you sleep or whether you wake, peace is yours. Then when morning comes, if you are up to see the dawn breaking through the darkness, your heart will be filled with thanksgiving for 'the light and warmth of the sun. The birds are up to greet the morning with songs of joy; the flowers raise their pretty faces to the sun; even the beasts stir themselves at the first streaks of light. But man, who does not understand the meaning of it all, hides behind his window blinds, and sometimes grumbles, not remembering that through all this beauty of the dawn God, who loves us, is telling us, "Good morning!" O holy Night! From thee I learn to bear What man has borne before! Thou layest thy finger on the lips of Care, And they complain no mote. ?Longfellow. TRANSITION A Poem Cycle Alberta H. Christensen NEW LEAVES But when I took his trousers from the shelf And tried to help him put them on in haste, He said that he could do it by himself? Could do the buttons even, on the waist. Again today he closed the bedroom door And cut the shining ringlets from his head; He didn't want to have curls anymore? He wanted hair like Daddy's, so he said. I held him close and saw him smile with pride, But when he joined the older boys outside, Within a box I put the auburn curls Beside my mother's locket and her pearls. But later took them out?then put them by, Then looked at them again?and wondered why. SPRING TO SUMMER Now that Spring had laid its tender hand Upon the waiting garden and the field, She walked aloof, as if about to yield Herself to some new force; or she would stand Quite dreamily a moment on the stair; Or sit beside her mirror, comb in hand? Become impatient at some slight command, And take an hour to rearrange her hair. Once when I tiptoed softly to her room At midnight, she was standing strangely still Beside the casement, watching from the gloom The moonlit patterns on the window sill. And then I knew youth's gay caprice was gone? Her heart was listening to a newer song! FROST Because it was a part of him, he dreamed In terms of land, more land and lifting seed. Acres reclaimed and furrowed somehow seemed To quench an inner thirst! It was not greed Made him accept the challenge of the soil. And I could not dissuade him, though I tried? Recalling bitter drought and endless toil, Or needs which I thought greater?though denied. But when this year October chill had turned The summac scarlet, and the barley field And strip of orchard land he sold, I yearned To hide the truth his weathered face revealed. Dim-eyed, I pressed his brave but calloused hand? And wished that he were dreaming?of more land! LARKIN MORTUARY 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City?4-9126 Alma J. Larkin, Mgr. Alma J. Larkin, Jr. Whitney H. Jensen Leo W. Goates, Asst. Mgr. Elmer H. Myers Max S. Larkin Clyde R. Stark Larkin & Sons 466 24th St?Ogden, Utah?321 Elijah A. Larkin, Mgr. George F. Larkin Orson T. Foulger Larkin Mortuary Co. 6003 Compton Ave. Los Angeles, California?Jefferson 1244 Lyles W. Larkin, Mgr. Ashby Stringham Nelma R. Bitter As a stenographer in the offices of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bitter, daughter of Mrs. Rebecca Richardson, Mesa, Ariz., has proved the truth of the statement: "LD. S. Training Pays!" Ask us to explain how it can help YOU, tool L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ENJOY NATURAL THE ONLY. HEATLY AUTOMATIC HEAT. You can still SAVE 10% GAS FURNACE Come in Today MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake Ogden @ Provo Serving 23 Utah Communities When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 