Training in the Most Important Aspects of Life
Being the largest private university in the intermountain region and also an institution of the Latter-day Saint Church, Brigham Young University is able to give balanced preparation for life. In scores of occupations, but this training is permeated by the principles and ideals of the Church. A new religion and social center is now being erected under the Church Welfare plan. It will provide splendid facilities which will greatly aid the faculty in caring for the religious needs of the nearly three thousand students.
Registration Dates | Autumn Quarter, 1940—September 20, 21, 23
For new catalog, address the President
Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH | LIFES TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love
LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS
260 East South Temple Was. 5132—Hy. 180
Telephone 821
LARKIN MORTUARY CO.
6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Not only does B. Y. U. Offer standard college work leading to success
Salt Lake City | 466 24th Street, Ogden
"rected in Grateful Remembrance..."
ea monuments are built purposely, of stone and bronze, to remind their beholders of incidents in the human drama. Other monuments are erected by toil and faith that are not intended to be monuments at all. A shaft raised to an event, a man, or even a bird, usually bespeaks someone's gratitude for help or deliverance from impending doom. A business, whether it be printing, automobile-building or the making of mouse-traps, whose survival is grounded on service and fair-dealing, is no less a monument, not alone to the founders of that business but also to the public appreciation which makes its continued existence possible. While we, in our business, are proud of the fact that our beginnings go back to pioneer days, we are equally proud of the part we have played in the development of the West, of the service we are able to render our customers by reason of keeping abreast of modern trends in the printing industry. May we serve you?
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
Nelma R. Bitter
As a stenographer in the offices of the Relief Society, Mrs. Bitter, daughter of Mrs. Rebecca Richardson, Mesa, Ariz., has proved the truth of the statement: 'LD. S. Training Pays!"
Ask us to explain how it can help YOU, tool
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
"Relief Society Song Book Is Now Ready—The Price is 85c Per Copy—Post Paid
Address Orders to GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishops Building—Salt Lake City
Fishers DUTCH BREAD daily!
Popular Fisher's DUTCH BREAD is receiving enthusiastic acclaim for its appetizing. Delightful, taste appeal. Give yourself and your family a new taste thrill—take home a loaf next time you shop. Available at your grocers.
A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII AUGUST, 1940 No. 8
Contents
Special Features
Photograph of Relief Society Pioneer Day Float 502
Relief Society Pioneer Day Float Mary Grant Judd 503
Frontispiece—"The Spirit of Relief Society" 504
Chastity—A Foundation Stone of Mormonism Luella N. Adams 505
National Conference of Social Work Ora Whipple Chipman 508
Getting A Share of the Great Heritage of Poetry Carlton Culmsee 517
Women In Literature (II) Some Women Novelists Elsie C. Carroll 521
Fiction
It Didn't Matter Eva Willes Wangsgaard 512
Cathedral of Peace Dorothy Clapp Robinson 546
General Features
Some Literary Friends (III) Diaries and Letters Florence Ivins Hyde 525
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 529
Editorial:
The Power of Composure 530
Notes to the Field:
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest 532
Membership Drive 533
Magazine Drive 533
Relief Society Membership and Magazine Drives (Summary of Proceedings of Membership and Magazine Departments, Relief Society Conference, April, 1940) Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 535
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 552
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—The Heavens Open—Restoration and Joseph Smith 557
Visiting Teacher—Divisions of Priesthood—The Aaronic Priesthood 561
Work-and-Business—Health for Your Eyes
Literature—Adam Bede
Social Service—Long-Time Vision of Family Life
Mission—Happenings in Nauvoo
Poetry
Books Nephi Jensen 520
Requite Jessie J. Dalton 528
Celia A. Van Cott 553
Her Shining House Olive C. Wehr 576
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

RELIEF SOCIETY PIONEER DAY FLOAT Mary Grant Judd AN innovation of the Pioneer Day celebration for this year was the entrance of floats representing, respectively, each of the Church auxiliary organizations. It gave us real happiness to design a wheat and sea-gull float, which we considered fitting to represent the Relief Society. And, since it was impossible for many of our members to view their float, which was a prize winner, we are printing a picture of it, accompanied by a short description. The foundation of the float was made entirely of white with scrolls of gold. Against a background of glittering wheat (which had been sprayed with gilt) stood the stately figure of a tall, golden-haired woman. Her white satin gown, with its flowing lines, was embroidered with sequins in a wheat design, and she wore a headpiece which further carried out the wheat idea. The sheaf of grain in her arms was tied with a large blue bow which, together with the wheat itself, carried out our colors of gold and blue. In front of the figure of the woman, as if growing, were rows of wheat over which floated three sea-gulls, and on the sides of the float one read the caption: "In Time of Need." No doubt you can guess some of the reasons why we chose wheat as a motif for our float. Wheat is very definitely tied in with our organization. It was early in the history of Relief Society that President Brigham Young commissioned our members to gather and save grain, upon which the pioneers must rely for life itself. This the sisters willingly did, many of them garnering wheat by gleaning in the fields; and granaries were built throughout the Church in which to store the precious kernels. Just as wheat is basically fundamental to life, so we believe the functions of Relief Society are important to human welfare: "to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." The wisdom of President Young's request was vindicated. And this brings us to the caption chosen for the float—"In Time of Need." In time of need, the seagulls came to rescue the pioneers from starvation. In early days, when crops were scarce, seed was still to be had, because Relief Society women had been obedient to counsel. War raged abroad, and these same faithful women helped to succor their nation by turning over great quantities of grain. And now, IN TIME OF NEED, our organization stands ready to do its part. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII AUGUST, 1940 No. 8 Chastity—A Foundation Stone of Mormonism Luella N. Adams "Be not deceived; God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to the flesh, shall of the flesh reap corruption. He that soweth to the spirit, shall of the spirit reap life everlasting." Thus spoke St. Paul. These solemn words of warning have come down to us through the years. Those who have yielded to the weakness of the flesh have paid a bitter price. The laws of Heaven do not change. God will not be mocked. It is common knowledge that we "reap what we sow." There is no escaping the severe penalty that follows sin. Sinful indulgences bring tragedy, bitter remorse, physical wreckage and, what is worse, moral wreckage. Cicero said: "A youth of sensuality and intemperance delivers over to old age a worn-out body." Those who "sow to the spirit," reap the rich reward of life everlasting. Could there be any more glorious reward? Free agency is a God-given concept. Men have always had to choose between good and evil. History records the fact that a disregard for chastity and righteous living in any great degree not only jeopardizes the free agency of individuals but the free agency of whole peoples. Sin enslaves, while righteousness makes free men. Righteous people have always placed a high value on chastity. The Israelites enforced purity by punishment of death. In their day, immorality was considered such a serious offense that entire clans were destroyed because of the sin of one member. On Mt. Sinai, Moses included in his Decalogue for right living, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." In the Book of Mormon, Jacob, speaking to the Nephites, warned them of the curse and even destruction that would come upon them if they continued in their iniquity. Here are his words: "Woe, woe unto you that are not pure in heart, that are filthy before God; for except ye repent, the land is cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy like unto you, nevertheless they are cursed with a sore cursing, shall scourge you unto destruction.... O my brethren, I fear that unless ye shall repent of your sins, that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye shall be brought with them before the throne of God." (Book of Mormon, Jacob, 3:3, 8) Since the beginning of civilization, nations and peoples have fallen as a result of moral decay. Sensuous living always has and always will bring tragedy. One of the cardinal principles of the Mormon Church is chastity. Our people have always been taught high standards of morality, and the rewards of obedience have been family solidarity, physical strength, and spiritual endowment in rich abundance. Brigham Young gave the following admonition to the children: "I wish to say to the children, obey thy parents. Never suffer yourselves to do that which will mortify you through life and that will cause you to look back with regret. While you are pure and spiritual, preserve yourselves in the integrity of your souls. Although you are young, you know good from evil; and live so that you can look back on your lives and thank the Lord that he has preserved, or has enabled you to preserve yourselves, so that you have no misconduct to regret or mourn over. Take this course and you will secure to yourselves an honorable name on earth among the good and the pure. You will maintain your integrity before Heaven and prove yourselves worthy of a high state of glory when you get through this world." What timely advice! The majority of the Mormon youth are followers of this admonition. Life holds promise for them. They are "morally straight and mentally awake." Our concern is to help them maintain these high standards. In cases where some may be weak in this regard, we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 have an even greater responsibility to impress them with the importance of right moral conduct. It is probably true that there never has been a time when the forces of evil, working in union, marched forward more relentlessly to destroy the souls of men than at the present. Someone has said: "Satan and his emissaries are working overtime to tempt people to unrighteous living." Evils which contribute to a disregard for chastity appear in many places disguised in many different forms. Pernicious influences parade in many of our accepted types of entertainment, in much of our "accredited" modern literature, in a steady stream of deceptive advertising. The automobile and other means of easy transportation augment our problem. Increased leisure aggravates our difficulties; we all recognize the truth of the old adage, "An idle brain is the Devil's workshop." All too common among us is the vulgar joke, the coarse story. "Keep the mind clean and the body will be clean" is a truism. Modesty is a priceless virtue. Evil parades in immodest dress. Drinking is perhaps the greatest single factor contributing to a disregard for chastity. The Arabs called alcohol "the spirit of the devil." How true this is! Latter-day Saints today can see the wisdom of President Heber J. Grant's admonition to vote against the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, in view of the alarming increase in the consumption of liquor. Through divine revelation, Mormon people have received a reservoir of God's laws for righteous living. Where much is given much is expected. This being true, the fathers CHASTITY—A FOUNDATION STONE OF MORMONISM and mothers—guardians of the chastity of our youth—have a more solemn obligation than that imposed on any other people. Relief Society mothers, teach your children to shun the very appearance of evil. The responsibility is yours. Important as is the work of the Church, the school and other agencies interested in moral welfare, the task cannot be left entirely to them. Recently, in one of the great universities of our country, moral philosophy not only dangerous but contrary to Christian principles was taught. The teacher had slight regard for chastity. While it is true that schools have a solemn obligation to stress this vital principle, they cannot always be relied upon; and fine as are the teachings of the Church, remember, Relief Society mothers, the home is the first bulwark to preserve and defend chastity. Satan's practices are beguiling. He whispers into the ear of the unsuspecting youth, "Everybody is doing it. Be a sport; nobody will ever know." Remember, youth, your Heavenly Father knows, and you know. "I cannot hide myself from me, I see what others can never see, I know what others may never know. I cannot hide myself and so Whatever happens I want to be Self-respecting and conscience-free." Our children are our most priceless gifts. The Savior has said, "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God..... He that seeketh me early shall find me." 507 President Clark, at the last Conference, gave the following advice to the mothers: "Sisters of the Church, the chastity of the youth of the Church is largely in your hands. You must enthrone virtue in its sovereign place; you must bring back modesty, must let the beauty of chaste blushes still adorn your cheeks. "Mothers in Israel, teach your sons to honor and revere, to protect to the last, pure womanhood; teach your daughters that their most priceless jewel is a clean, undefiled body; teach both sons and daughters that chastity is worth more than life itself. These are the duties which the Priesthood looks to you primarily to carry to, and to maintain in, that cradle of all virtues—the righteous home. "We Priesthood shall help as best our natures permit, but the burden for that task is now and always has been, in the greatest part, yours. Unless you shall do this, the whole world will sink into a welter of sin and corruption. May God help you in your task!" How blessed are Latter-day Saint fathers and mothers. The Church has charted the course for your children to follow. Danger signals have been posted along the way. This charted course is the way of wholesome life; it is our Heavenly Father's way. Members of our Society, the Priesthood expects us to guard the chastity of our youth. They came to us pure. Let us do all in our power to keep them so. Teach them to listen to the still, small voice. That voice says now, as always: "Be not deceived; God is not mocked. Whatsoever we soweth, that shall we reap. National Conference of Social Work Ora Whipple Chipman THE Relief Society sent two delegates to the National Conference of Social Work, held in Grand Rapids, Michigan, from May 24 to June 1 this year. At this Conference were assembled representative social workers and other leaders in social welfare from all parts of the United States and its possessions, from Canada and some other foreign countries. Medicine, psychiatry, research, psychology, statistics, law, the ministry sent distinguished representatives to participate. Industrial leaders and labor administrators contributed to the deliberations of the Conference. It was, indeed, a truly great meeting of people whose greatest interest centers in the welfare of human beings. The Conference is a "forum for the discussion of all points of view on social welfare... It is non-racial, non-sectarian and non-political. It adopts no platforms and takes no official stand on local, state, national or international affairs...." At this sixty-seventh annual Conference there were four hundred meetings and more than six hundred speakers. Official paid registration was 4,888 with attendance reaching approximately 8,000 people. With one general session daily, the Conference was divided into five major sections: social case work, social group work, community organization, social action, and public welfare administration. Affiliated with the Conference were nine special committees and fifty-five associate groups; such as, the Child Welfare League of America, the American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, the American Association of Medical Social Workers, the National Probation Association, National Association of Goodwill Industries, Episcopal Social Work Conference, and the Committee on the National Health Program. Social problems of the individual and of the nation were analyzed at this conference in an attempt to understand the developments of the past and to chart the future course of America in raising the cultural and physical level of the nation, maintaining also an interest in international relationships and all peoples. The Conference was much concerned with the ill-fed, the ill-clothed, ill-housed, and the ill-educated. It was concerned with the imminent threat to our democratic institutions and way of life from without and from within. Miss Grace L. Coyle, president of the Conference, in her opening address said on this subject: "Whether our democratic institutions and the traditions from which they spring can survive the economic dislocations of the thirties is the major issue that confronts us. We are not at present threatened as other countries are by the imposition of despotism from without. The most serious fifth column which has penetrated within our gates is the malnutrition of our population, the frustration and despair of our unemployed, the racial inequalities and antagonisms heightened by economic tensions, and the inhuman cynicism of those among us who can realize these conditions without attempting to remedy them. European experience should teach us that the despair of the people is the opportunity of the dictator." Miss Coyle listed effects of the depression of the 1930's as follows: undermining of belief in opportunity for economic achievement; the disillusion and despair of much of our youth; a generation of old age without resource or security; uprooted farm families (as the Joads) who have become depression refugees; and the lack of physical necessities essential to health and decency. She and many other speakers held that these ills of our nation can be and must be overcome. Distinguished speakers asserted that there is no unavoidable cause for any poverty in any part of the United States; that we need leadership and knowledge in adjusting our affairs to produce plenty for all in work and in goods. Ways and means were studied for bringing to every American "the essential minimum for health and decency." NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK Large sections of the Conference were devoted to attempts to analyze the public relief programs of the country and to formulate principles of sound public welfare administration. Closely allied with these discussions were those regarding rehabilitation of large migratory populations, and regarding economic and governmental control of the consequences of changing production methods. The national health program and the placing of medical care within the reach of all were subjects in several sessions. Mr. Homer Folks, eminent social worker, considered health comparable in importance to education, although far less progress has been made in providing it for all. One speaker decried the vicious cycle of providing public medical care for children who would be well if properly housed or fed or clothed. The Wagner National Health Act and precepts advocated by the American Medical Association were pointed out as progressive steps in providing low-cost medical care for all, to improve the health of the nation. Child welfare held its usual prominent place in the Conference program. Miss Katherine Lenroot, Chief of the Children's Bureau, outlined a program for children based on recommendations of the 1940 White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. She indicated that between six and eight million United States children were, in 1939, in families dependent for food and shelter upon various forms of relief. This aid, in many cases, "is not enough to provide a good home." She pointed out, also, that nearly a million children of elementary school age are not in school and that four million youths between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five want work but are unemployed. Seeing the European conflict as a challenge to all the nations of the Western hemisphere, Miss Lenroot suggested means by which Americans and their children might be assured of qualities essential to preservation and advancement of democracy. They are: "mental and physical health; an environment which will indoctrinate children with the theory of freedom and democracy; support and expansion of all phases of economic, political and social life; and encouragement to live a life of self-discipline, self-control and cooperation with others." A specialized phase of child welfare considered in several meetings was that of placing children in foster and adoptive homes. In the light of the rather haphazard means of child placing practiced by many, even today, it is interesting to note the seriousness with which foster home and adoption placement is viewed by responsible and distinguished psychiatrists, psychologists, and child-welfare executives participating in the Conference. Dr. Orlo L. Crissey, director of The Flint Guidance Center (a child-guidance clinic) of Flint, Michigan, stated that foster or adoptive home placement must become an individualized process for each child. He said: "A foster home thus becomes useful to the extent that it has within it the possibilities of satisfying the cluster of needs of a particular child. This implies that a thorough clinical study of the child must be made. Each case demands an evaluation of the child's physical status, family background, present level of mental performance, and behavior and attitudes as interpreted against the background of the child's total life experience. The skill and insight of the case worker must be pooled with observations of the physician, the clinical psychologist or psychiatrist, and persons from whom the child has received care and training. No two children present the same living picture, and so the influence and importance of the various factors must be carefully weighed," finding the home suited to a particular child. "Surely this (work) calls for persons RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 with the highest professional qualifications, as they will be called upon to use every ounce of insight and maturity in effecting a complex process of human engineering!" Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, addressed a joint meeting of the Episcopal Social Work Conference and the Church Conference of Social Work on "Children and the Moral Fiber of the Nation," in which she stressed the importance of early religious training. She considered religion to be vital in the lives of children if they are to attain fortitude in meeting the complexities of life. "Ethical principles alone do not hold people up in times of trouble, terror, or temptation," she said. Describing religion as a "building back of men to God," the speaker characterized the relationship of man to God as "the most primary, the most fundamental, and the most dramatic thing in the life of man." Parents and teachers of the present generation were considered by the speaker to be inadequate in introducing children to religion and ethics. "We have made much progress with children physically, but little progress as a nation with children in relation to God." Less than half of the nation's sixteen million young people have received any form of religious instruction outside of the home. Urging that some form of religious education should be open to every child in America, she proposed a "simple beginning" in the form of prayer in the public schools. "We offer a prayer before the President of the United States is inaugurated; we open Congress with a prayer; we open state legislatures with prayer. Some courts are opened with prayer," she said, "but when children sit down in school, no prayer may be said for them. Why, at least, can we not have the Lord's Prayer said?" Referring to recommendations made by the recent White House Conference, Miss Perkins indicated that the "great value of such a report lies in the fact that the recommendations dealing with family income, housing, social service, education, recreation, medical care and religion form an integrated whole. It reemphasizes the fact that the child's life cannot be divided into separate compartments...." "It has been recommended that whole-hearted recognition and appreciation of the fundamental place of religion in the development of culture should be given by all who deal with children," Secretary Perkins continued. "Religion should be treated as an important factor in personal and social behavior." In conclusion, she stated that "to the extent that we meet the needs of our children, we strengthen the moral fiber of the nation." The shadow of the war hung heavily over the Conference, which coincided with the surrender of the Belgian Army. Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver and other speakers asserted that the "time has come for a strengthening of our national defenses, both military and spiritual. Said Rabbi Silver: "We should not forget that a strong military defense in itself is not sufficient. A greater defense for a nation is the loyalty of its citizens and their essential spiritual unity." Summarizing the feeling of the general Conference that the American people must preserve the culture we have attained, President Grace Coyle said that the "firmest foundation for the ultimate preservation of our democratic heritage lies in a sound people well nourished in body, healthy in mind, fully developed, each according to his powers. Such a people are the best preparedness for the free cooperative endeavor for common goals not only of defense—essential as that may be for the time—but also for the permanent achievement of a great culture. For this achievement we need a profound insight and an unshaken courage." She urged that we recall the struggling and wavering advance of civilization as we know it. "The rise of science," she concluded, "the achievement of political democracy, the abolition of slavery, the extension of medical care, free education of the young, the development of the vast body of social services which we represent—these are but part of that struggle for civilized life. Our generation is called upon to hold this line and to press forward. This struggle is the great adventure of mankind, faltering, uncertain, but with it all—superb." "The essential characteristics of truth, beauty, and goodness are proportion, moderation and restraint." It Didn't Matter Eva Willes Wangsgaard For a long time Judith Rawson had wanted to try an experiment. There was something she had to find out for herself, because, when she had asked Mother, Mother had jerked her head up quickly and snapped, "Don't be silly. You're too young to be worrying about your complexion." What did she mean "too young"? The time to make dark skin fairer was as soon as you found out how. Maybe that wasn't why Arnold, whose father ran the bakery, had begun bringing the squares of gingerbread to Irma instead of to Judith, but she thought it was. All through the second grade he had had a chunk of gingerbread every afternoon for Judith, and now all summer when he came to play he gave it to Irma. Even if that wasn't why Arnold didn't like her, dark skin just didn't belong with yellow hair in spite of the brownness of her eyes. Judith had asked Irma what made her skin so fair, and Irma had tossed her long candy-colored braids and said, "I wash my hands and face in buttermilk." But Mother needed the buttermilk for the pigs. There wasn't enough as it was, and Mother would never let Judith use food that way. Still, there was a churn half full on the table in the house and a small lard bucket in the cupboard. A child could take some. The pigs wouldn't miss what little she needed. She slipped into the house and looked around. Mother must be in the bedroom. There was one good thing about having a deaf mother: A child could go in and out lots of times without having to explain. Judith walked to the cupboard and stood silent. The house was a log cabin with a lean-to. The "big" room was really large and was living-room, dining-room, kitchen, and bedroom, all in one. The largest part was covered by a red, green, and yellow striped rag carpet with straw underneath. On the carpet stood the cherrywood bed in one corner with a heap of quilts beside it, because it was summer now and the family didn't use all that bedding. When Judith and Margie played at dolls, the pile of quilts was the upstairs, and they could be grand ladies with a two-story house. In another corner by a door was the lounge where Artie slept. The door led into the lean-to, and that was Mother's and Father's bedroom, which they had all to themselves. The kitchen part you could tell by the linoleum that ran along one side, with the range, the table, and the cupboard standing on it. Judith lifted the bucket, dipped it into the churn, looked cautiously around again, then ran outside, carrying the bucket carefully close to her chest. She ran down the path to the mulberry tree, and behind its wide trunk began her experiment. Now it was over, and nobody had interfered. One of the boys playing ball in the yard had yelled, "What's Judith washing her face behind that tree for?" But no one had answered, and he must have forgotten because of the game. IT DIDN'T MATTER She was disappointed. She peered into the broken piece of mirror which she took from her pocket. It hadn't worked. She was still brown as last year's hay, and her face felt dry and funny, and Mother's bucket was dirty. She'd have to wash both the pail and her face at the well. Everybody had "flowing wells" in her town, but the Rawson's well was almost dry. She'd have to go over to Cousin Cora's across the street, where the water flowed in a long stream that shot out from the pipe into a trough. She'd better see if the coast was clear. There was nobody in sight near the well. Judith dashed across the dusty street and held the bucket under the stream. "What are you washing that bucket for?" Judith looked toward the voice. There on the side porch almost hidden by the Virginia creeper sat her sister, Margie, and Cousin Cora. Judith's insides began to quiver. She wished that she was like Margie, who never wanted to find things out for herself but always did what the grown-ups liked. "Why can't you be like Margie?" had been a whip held over Judith by aunts and cousins and school teachers until she always felt guilty when Margie was near. Why wasn't she? Judith didn't know. She struggled and struggled against lots of things and then did something wrong after all, but Margie did the right thing almost every time without even having to try. "What are you washing that bucket for?" Judith's tongue answered Margie's voice before her thoughts were gathered up, "Because Lee-Lee dirtied it." She rinsed the bucket and slapped a handful of the cold water over her face, then bounded like a rabbit across the street to her home. At the door caution spoke again, but Mother was sewing and didn't even glance at her. Judith replaced the pail and slipped out-of-doors again. But she didn't feel right. She didn't want to play with the other kids. She wandered out to the haystack and sat down in the fat shadow the hay made on the side toward the east. Her thoughts stirred round and round. Now, why had she said that Lee-Lee dirtied it? Of course, it was just the kind of trick Lee-Lee would do, but he hadn't. Well, it didn't matter. No one would punish Lee-Lee. What if they asked him, and he denied it? None of the kids would believe him; no one ever did. But what if Cousin Cora believed and made a fuss? Oh, well, Lee-Lee would bawl loud as a calf, and she would say, "Don't cry, Lee-Lee, and you can have an egg to go to the store after candy." Then Lee-Lee would get the candy, and nobody would be punished, and it didn't matter. Everybody would forget even if they paid any attention to Lee-Lee's noise—or would they? Would Margie? Or would she get suspicious and tell Mother? If she did, Mother'd say, "Judith, what have you been up to?" Then she'd get it all out of her and send Artie down to the corner where the willows grew. He'd pick a tough one that would make Judith's legs tingle even through the heavy, coarse-ribbed stockings. Mother boiled up quick, because she was almost never well and had too much to do. Maybe Mother'd tell Father, and he wouldn't do anything; but he'd look like a judge, sad and bothered and ashamed, and that'd hurt worse than a switch. Why did she have to tell the fib, too? Wasn't the swiping of the buttermilk enough? If she had to make up a story, why couldn't she have thought of one that wouldn't blame anyone else, even Lee-Lee? But she had—but nobody knew, and Lee-Lee wouldn't get hurt, and it didn't matter. Maybe they wouldn't ever find out, but maybe they would. Maybe Margie just hadn't gone home yet, and so hadn't had a chance to tell Mother. Was that Mother calling now? No, that was Aunt Becky calling Hugh. It was the "oo" she'd heard. She wasn't caught. Judith's legs were cramped. She got up and peeked around the stack. The kids were so busy with their ball game that nobody noticed her. They didn't even miss her. She wandered away and crawled through the fence into Grandpa's lot. She strolled through the flower garden. One last moss rose was in bloom and smelled sweet in the sun. She touched it, and it fell, a mass of pink petals scattered over the "old man" leaves. She stepped forward, and her stogy little shoes crushed a sprig of the pungent herb. She'd have to get out of there. Grandma would scold if she saw the damage Judith had done. She sat under the willow tree and looked for four-leaf clovers. She couldn't find even one. She picked a dandelion, slipped the large end of the stem into her mouth, and curled her tongue around it. She pulled it out and in, out and in, and the end began to curl in two even little circles. She ran the curls clear up to the shining flower and picked another and began again. Finally, there were six little dandelions that ended in twin curls, but it wasn't much fun without Margie to compare curls with and to beat at numbers. Oh dear! The sun sank lower, and Judith knew she should go into the house, but her feet refused to point that way. She sat down in the shadow of the hay again, but now it was long, almost to Grandpa's fence. "Judith! Judith Rawson!" That call meant business. She'd better face the music. She ran toward the house. Her sharp, brown eyes searched her mother's face. It was cross and anxious. Judith held her breath. "What do you mean staying out as late as this? Your father will be home before I can get your hair combed and before you can put on a clean dress. You know your father likes to see you clean. Get in here." Mother's hands were too quick and careless with the wire brush. They were even worse with the comb. Judith's head hurt, but she didn't say anything. Mother was just cross because she was late getting cleaned up for Father. Mother always had the children in a shining row at night, and Judith had crowded her. Then the buggy came around the corner, and Father drove into the yard. He called for Artie and turned the rig over to him and came straight into the house. He caught Judith and Margie in his arms for a kiss, and when he set them down he put his arms around Mother. Mother went with him into the bedroom. Judith wondered if Mother did know and was going to tell him now. But the door opened, and they came out. Father had his evening clothes on and was as clean as the kids. It was Father she'd hate worst of all to have know. Why? She wondered. Well, maybe it was because Father knew so much. Like that time she took the tantrum. She had done it lots of times, and Mother had been worried and let her do what she had wanted to do in the first place, but this time Father had been home. Judith got angry and lay down on the floor and rolled over and over until her head was on the linoleum. She wanted it there because the linoleum was hard and made more noise. Mother couldn't hear the noise, but she could feel it, and that worried her. Mother ran to pick her up, and then Father had stepped over and had caught Mother in his arms. He had laughed while Mother struggled. Mother had shouted, "Dave, she'll hurt herself." Then Father had spoken loud enough for Mother to hear. "Nonsense, Emily. That kid's smart. Leave her alone, she'll stop when she finds out it doesn't pay." Mother grew quiet in his arms, and that had ended those tantrums. Father knew everything. Judith watched his face now. No, she decided, he hadn't been told; so Mother didn't know either. Father got three chairs and placed their backs together. Everybody knelt down, and Father began to pray. He prayed a long time, and then he said, "Keep us kind and truthful." Judith peeped between her fingers, but Father wasn't looking at her. Pretty soon he said, "Amen." They got up, and Father and Artie put the chairs up to the table while Mother dished up the supper. Artie said the blessing. It was almost a Sunday dinner. There were new potatoes and green peas, salt side-meat, and tapioca pudding for dessert. There were round, red radishes and lettuce cut up fine with vinegar and sugar over the top. But it didn't taste as good as on Sunday, and Judith couldn't eat as much. Mother said, "Clean up your plate, Judith," but when she couldn't, Mother added, "You'd better leave those green apples alone." When supper was over, and Sarah and Margie did the dishes. They were older than Judith and did more of the things to help Mother. Sarah was almost grown up. Errands were about all they asked of Judith, except to pick gooseberries and outdoor things. Artie and Judith sat on the edge of the bed, and Mother got the book. It was a new one called Uncle Tom's Cabin. They had finished Ishmael, or In the Depths, a long time ago, and then Up From the Depths. Now Mother sat in the big wicker rocker with its gingham cushions and began to read. Margie and Sarah could hear the story if they were quiet with the dishes. Mother's soft voice ran on and on, and Father pulled out his handkerchief. It didn't go back into his pocket; he needed it too often for his eyes. Finally, Father began to nod, and Mother closed the book sharply. The dishes were done, the reading hour over, and Mother lighted the other lamp and took it into the bedroom for Father to undress by. She made up the lounge and pulled the curtain around it. Artie went behind the curtain. The girls undressed, and Sarah blew out the light after Margie and Judith got under the covers. Then Sarah crawled in on the outside. Margie slept against the wall. Judith lay in the middle. The middle was always hers, and Sarah talked cross and sometimes slapped her for wriggling, but tonight she didn't wriggle once. She lay still and thought and thought. When Judith thought, she did it from the toes up, tense as a button on a twirling string. When she and Margie had said their prayers just before they climbed into bed, she had thought about asking God, but she hadn't. The little girls always said their prayers in a whisper, and if she asked God, Sarah and Margie might hear the question. Then they might tell Mother or maybe keep it to make Judith give them her new ribbon or something. If she didn't whisper her prayers but just thought them, then they'd tell Mother she hadn't said them. So Judith had said her usual prayer, the one that Margie and Sarah might safely hear. She guessed God knew anyway. Didn't He know everything? Shucks, He probably even knew why she had done it, and why she had blamed Lee-Lee. Why had she anyway? But what was the use? It didn't matter. It's a queer thing about being wicked. You can keep things from Margie and Sarah, you can keep things from Mother, you can even keep some things from Father, but... Judith wished she could sleep. She thought about asking forgiveness, but whom could she ask? Nobody else knew, and nobody had been hurt. And repentance? She thought a long time about repentance. She guessed that if you repentRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 ed you didn't ever do it again, but you couldn't make this time not be. Maybe, after awhile it would heal like a burn, but would it leave a scar? She remembered how she and her cousin Alice had been burned by a bonfire. Alice was fair skinned, and her burn had healed into a little pink scar that hardly showed any more at all, but Judith's had made a brown spot on her dark skin that showed a lot. Judith wondered if souls were like that. If scars could be seen on your soul, it would look a sight no matter how sorry you felt. And how could you get rid of scars? Some day she'd ask Father. He knew everything. There wasn't much use asking Mother things like that. She worried so much, and when you worry you can't think. She had worried all afternoon about being caught and being switched; and now that she hadn't been caught, she knew that it hadn't been the switching at all. Judith, lying between her two older sisters and staring into the violet stillness, was just preparing to tell herself once more that it didn't matter, when she remembered something. Father had said that any time anyone kept saying, "It doesn't matter," you could put it down that something mattered a great deal. Suddenly she saw the truth. Looking at it was like looking at the sun —it hurt. You told little lies to avoid the truth just as you rubbed your eyes with your knuckles to stop the hurt, but the more you did, the harder both the sun and the truth were to face. Then she understood who really cared what Judith did, and she could go to sleep. Getting A Share of the Great Heritage of Poetry Carlton Culmsee Half a millennium has crept by since Gutenberg began printing with movable type. But a cloud hangs over the five hundredth anniversary of printing, for the nations of Gutenberg and Caxton, both great early printers, are at war with each other; and the torrent of propaganda from the presses is almost as harmful as the black hail from the skies. The first half of the Printing Millennium has brought remarkable mechanical facilities. Will the second half bring a sane application of them? It will—if we can breed a race of human beings whose minds are noble and whose emotions are disciplined. One way to rear lofty-minded men and women is to nourish children's minds upon the greatest thoughts of all time, upon ideas and emotions wrought to highest strength and beauty by the best poets. By "best poets' I do not mean exquisite poseurs juggling daintily with words or human "sensitive plants" sighing in ivory towers, but poets as strong and sound in their view of life as in their literary art; poets in the sense in which the old Hebrews used the word, when it was synonymous with prophets. Thanks to printing, such poets are probably in your home now, ready to enrich all the family. They can turn a receptive mind into a gallery of magnificent images and thoughts. Also, as "the unacknowledged legislators of the world," they can help discipline and direct the impulses and emotions. But in this age that is over-proud of being "practical," the question arises: How can a love of the highest poetry be cultivated? Here are a few suggestions: First, begin early; begin to cultivate this taste in your child while he is in infancy. Then it is more likely to grow deep roots, and to live a long, robust life. It will not have the sometimes sickly tinge of the late-acquired, the reluctantly dutiful, the half-convinced. Repeat choice passages to the child in arms, as you would sing a lullaby. As time goes on, jewelled phrases and images, even occasional couplets and stanzas, will cling in his mind and will be treasures for life. True, they will not yield up all their meaning until they are illuminated by experience, but they will offer him beauty of melody and rhythm and may serve him as touchstones and standards of excellence. Second, begin with the right materials. A child, of course, is not a 'little adult"; but poetic passages of simple, strong beauty are preferable to mental baby food prepared by mediocre minds. The music of well-matched words is delightful, and rhythm is one of the most fundamental and engrossing elements of life; it beats time in the rising and setting of the sun and the moon, in the lapping of waves, in the shuffling of feet in a dance, in the pulsing of the blood. Both the harmony and rhythm of poetry may be enjoyed by the very young, and both will 518 cause the charmed mind to retain some of the messages that they carry. The argument that children should first be given literary baby talk has logic in it; it reflects a reaction to an old fallacy about a child's ability to understand. But it has led to a good deal of "talking down" to children. I am not disparaging simplicity, but the use of cheap nonsense of no conceivable value. Musicians have, as a rule, a better appreciation of this problem; they know that a child does not unravel all the intricacies of a fugue, but they do not therefore sentence the youngster to listen only to the beating of a tomtom or to the trumpery-thumperies of Tin Pan Alley. Why not, for example, inculcate an early liking for the Bible through the reading of wisely selected brief bits from the Psalms or other scriptural poetry, read not in a sepulchral or ominous or mechanical way but in the fervent or joyous tone of chants of praise? The Bible, to be sure, offers difficulties. In some senses, Professor R. G. Moulton believes, it is a most inappropriately arranged and printed book. In form, the verse in it has been sunk to the level of the prose. Some of the best poems are unsuitably titled and others have no titles at all. A plane of uniformity has been achieved by leveling off the high points with a division of the material into verses and chapters. But fortunately, Hebrew poetry did not employ rigid metrical patterns, and it has been translated, with its devices of alliteration, antithesis, and parallelism, more successfully than have the classics of other languages. When biblical poetry is judiciously arranged in free RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 verse form, to show the structure that the Hebrews intended, the beauty is enhanced and is more readily appreciated. Moulton's Modern Reader's Bible enables one to find the poetry and to read it as poetry, not as prose cut into often arbitrary paragraphs. For young children, the passages chosen should be very brief to match the shortness of a child's attention, should be concrete and strongly rhythmical, and should be repeated until they become familiar, for children delight in rhythmic repetitions, and they retain them. Why not also cultivate an early taste for Shakespeare? There is abundant beauty in the great dramatist for youngsters if the poetry is properly presented. Even if the mother attempts no more than such lovely figures as "Night's candles are burnt out" and "the morn, in russet mantle clad," and some of the simple, beautiful songs from the plays, the child receives subtle values, and has the door opened to a real appreciation in riper years. And it need scarcely be pointed out that the culling of these bits renews and extends the mother's appreciation. At first glance, Milton seems unpromising for children, but his shorter poems, such as "L'Allegro" and "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity," afford an entrance into a realm of high beauty. And as we advance in time through Burns and Wordsworth and Keats, Tennyson and Browning, Emerson and Whitman, we see what a splendid heritage we have and what cultural riches we can confer upon the young, no matter how remote we may be from the great centers. GETTING A SHARE OF THE GREAT HERITAGE OF POETRY Modern poetry offers more difficulties of selection. In the first place, there is the financial yardstick with which we often measure the success of today's literary men. Part of Edgar Guest's prestige was due to his reputation of having made poetry pay exceedingly well, for "practical" people felt that they could safely admire him. But best sellers are not, of course, necessarily best. Poverty, on the other hand, is no proof of excellence in a writer. A great deal of first-rate poetry has come, not out of shabby garrets, but out of the homes of the well-to-do. In the second place, a wave of coarseness and gratuitous frankness in literature has helped make us perhaps unduly appreciative of some tenth-rate writing simply because it is "wholesome." But we must not be misled by the antiseptic purity of some cheap, sentimental verse or by its catch phrases exploiting the very real appeals in the words "the flag," "home," and "mother." We should ask of these writings not merely whether they are morally sanitary, but whether they are sincere and artistically sound, or whether they were ground out like some commercial product by a chap with his tongue in his cheek. One argument for reading cheap verse is that, being widely appealing, it educates the masses to poetry. Beginning with "easy" verse, they may eventually work up to the classics. This notion sounds plausible, but it is analogous to the idea that we must complete our economic foundations before we can start building our spiritual towers; the weakness is that utter preoccupation with the physical is perilous to both our spiritual 519 and our physical objects. It seems to me that the cultivation of bad taste is a hazardous method of developing good taste. In the third place, there is the matter of fashion. For some time it has been more or less fashionable in some literary circles to be disillusioned, cynical about idealism, pessimistic about man's destiny. Such a state of mind has led some poets to write verses such as these: "For you and me a name of mud, A rash of stars upon the sky, A pox of flowers on the earth; To such diseases of the eye Habituated from our birth." Seeking original material and feeling the undertow of modern pessimism, some poets create ugliness, not beauty, and exert a benumbing influence. It is not hard for a reader to become bewildered about life when he feels that he ought to like the literature of disillusionment and helplessness, and yet ought to cling to courageous and far-sighted religious principles. Among those who are impressive contributors to the poetry of pessimism is Robinson Jeffers, who has created beauty of a kind but who tends to regard man in a hopeless light. At the other extreme, Robert Frost stands high for strong simplicity, careful forms, beauty, and a stalwart attitude toward life. Two aspects of the development of taste—beginning early and using the best materials—have been discussed mainly from the viewpoint that a mother is reading this with her children in mind. A third aspect concerns the self-improvement of the individual. It is this: the way to obtain real insight into the values of 520 great poetry is to write poetry, to learn through creative effort to appreciate what has been called "the most difficult art." No one undertaking verse-writing partly to deepen appreciation should be content to jot free verse. In a novice's hands, free verse is misleadingly easy to do, but it is likely to remain choppy prose distinguished chiefly by undisciplined emotionalism. Rather, one should study the mechanics of traditional verse forms and attempt these forms. This activity is a fascinating hobby. Only rarely, of course, does it lead to the discovery of high lyrical gifts in the 'prentice poet; but it always strengthens the power to see more depth and beauty in the masterpieces of the art. If you decide to take up verse-writing, you will find An Introduction to Poetry by Hubbell and Beatty (Macmillan) helpful. The book discusses the principles of verse and gives numerous examples, old and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 contemporary. As you study different rhythms and meters, rhyme schemes and stanza forms, write your own verse with the best models in view. Begin with simple, dignified iambic; try sprightly trochaic; go on to the longer swing of anapestic and dactylic rhythms. As you master each tool of the artist, you will deepen your appreciation of great poetry. You will see, for example, how an artist can take plodding iambic pentameter and use it with his own distinctive style, giving it infinite variety, subtly harmonizing the verse with his thought and emotion in a dramatic way, and raising his expression to a sublime height of beauty and power. Then you will be able to derive much more from that great heritage of the race to which prophets and poets have contributed for thousands of years, and which can give endless hours of high pleasure, many ennobling experiences. BOOKS Rapt in reverent revery, I scan The familiar titles one by one; Fancy sweeps over Time's lengthening span, I meet again rarest friends I have won. I look at the covers, the new and old, With the miser's keen, idolatrous eye; I recount the Soul's fine gold they enfold, Of more worth than the miser's gold can buy. I recall the wits, poets and sages With whom I dream and think and laugh and live; By the lilt and the pith of their pages I relive the truth and mirth they give. —Nephi Jensen. Women In Literature Elsie C. Carroll Part II Some Women Novelists Women writers have achieved success in novels as well as in poetry. George Sand was a distinguished French novelist. Selma Lagerlof was not only one of the greatest literary geniuses of Sweden, but of the world. She was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 1909. England has produced several great women novelists, as has America. This article will consider three women novelists whose books are being used in the Relief Society literature lessons this year. George Eliot (Mary Ann or Marian Evans) is known for her faithful picture of the part of England in which she spent most of her life, for the distinctness and authenticity of her characters, and especially for her truthful insight into the workings of the human mind and soul. She is considered not only the first great psychological novelist in English literature, but one of the greatest in all literature. This power to reveal the motives back of human actions, the inevitable results of certain actions, is portrayed in all her chief novels—Adam Bede, The Mill on the Floss, Silas Marner, Romola, Felix Holt, Middlemarch, and Daniel Deronda. In her latest novels she became more analytical and philosophical than in Adam Bede and others of her earlier ones, but in all of them she was deeply concerned with the study of conscience. In all of them, too, she shows great earnestness, tolerance, sympathy with noble aspirations, brilliant powers of wit and keen insight into human nature. She recognized that all of mankind are made up of good and bad; so she has in her novels no angels and no demons, but real men and women working out their destinies with the powers of good and evil which surround them. All her stories have an ethical formula. "No matter where she begins she always comes quickly to an incident which discovers the moral quality of her characters, and then she proceeds slowly with their self-revelation." She has been compared to a scientist, who with his scalpel lays bare the brain and the heart. She reveals the springs of human misery and joy, the elements that govern the growth of happy or unhappy consciousness. Her great law of conduct is "the act and its consequence." Here characters are never fixed. They evolve as real human beings do under the influences of heredity and environment. She reveals that man has two selves. One speaks with the voice of duty. It tells us to meet bravely every circumstance in life. The other speaks with the voice of passion and egoism. If we follow it we find destruction. The decision as to which voice we follow is a matter of individual choice. Her motto might be: "By our deeds we are saved or lost." George Eliot gave to the novel 522 a new quality in the manner in which she embodied a note of morality in her realistic treatment of the life about her. She has often been compared to Shakespeare in her ability to see into the inner-spring of human characters and trace the effects of action upon personality and character, and so upon the ultimate success or failure of the lives she depicts. Elizabeth Page in her studies of history and biography at Vassar and Columbia, in her work with the Y. W. C. A. In France during the World War, in her social work with a charity organization following the war, and her assistance to a Wyoming physician, learned not only much about the past history of her country, but also much about the present problems and needs of America, and about human nature in general. She relates an interesting story of the preparation of her latest and greatest novel, The Tree of Liberty. Her history study in college made her feel that the men and women who made our country were very vital in our present world. Speaking of her study, she says: "Across the gap of years I saw real people, confused, most of them, by the puzzling issues of their times, often not conscious of the solution of their difficulties even when they had stumbled on it, always dying before the full effects of their activity could be known." Recognizing a parallel between the situation of our historical forefathers and those struggling with significant problems in our life today, and feeling that the experiences of the past had a definite bearing upon the present, she was impelled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 to share what she so clearly saw. So she set about to prepare her great novel. For five years she devoted herself to intensive research, which included the reading of hundreds of books and articles. She states that the nine pages of references at the end of The Tree of Liberty include but a small portion of the works consulted. Besides this vast amount of reading, she visited all parts of the country included in the setting of her novel, some places many times. She relates how she went repeatedly to the reconstructed home of Jefferson and devoted days to careful study of every aspect of the place which might have a bearing upon the character or history of the great statesman. In attempting to unravel the mystery of a little stairway, which she thinks once led from Jefferson's bedroom to the nursery, she was convinced of the tenderness of the distinguished man. She says: "A man who could keep a silky lock of hair from each of his six babies in the drawer of the table beside his bed to the end of a very long life, each carefully labeled in envelopes worn with much handling, would not be beyond preserving such a stairway so closely associated with happy memories." She says that she knew from the beginning that Jefferson must be an important character in her novel but that she must find someone else very close to him to be the central figure in the story, for she could not take liberties with real characters to make her story what she wanted it to be. After she formulated her character, she says she guessed three times before she learned that his name was Matthew Howard, but that she WOMEN IN LITERATURE "knew from the first that he was as tall as Colonel Jefferson's son Tom and that he had red-gold hair and grey eyes." She states that she found Jane Howard in a picture in the home of her cousin, though Jane has certain characteristics of her own sister. She determined from the first to take no liberties with her historical characters. But to her surprise, her created characters demanded the same fidelity to fact. She says of the Howard family, through which she reveals the life of the most important epoch in the making of America, "I started with a family tree, and they went on to demand floor plans of every house they occupied and street maps of every town they visited; and they did not stop there. They insisted that I must be very sure of what they really would say and do before I set them in motion; and they sent me to Virginia twice, all the way from California, to make absolutely sure I knew what they meant about some matters of dispute between us. That sounds foolish, but I know of no other way to express the strangely external pressure which a 'character' exerts to attain and preserve a consistent development.... Is it any wonder I feel as if these people were all of them real—even though occasionally I know better." The best of it is, Miss Page makes her characters all real to us and helps us to feel the significance of the link which joins us with the past and the benefit the present may, if it is wise, derive from that past. Bess Streeter Aldrich because of her depiction in many of her fine novels of pioneer life very similar to that of our own 523 state and because of the beautiful idealism in her characters is a favorite author with Latter-day Saint women. Another bond between her and us is the fact that she taught school one year in Salt Lake City. In a letter to the writer of this article she says of that experience: "Yes, I taught one year in the Lafayette School in Salt Lake City, way back in 1905-1906. The San Francisco earthquake was a big item of that spring. Mr. Coombs was our principal; and after we heard the bad news, he ordered the children to go home and return with all the bread their mothers would let them have. We placed chairs across the corner of his office to form a bread bin and piled the loaves there on newspapers. By early afternoon a carload of bread from Salt Lake was on its way to the stricken city. "I taught one of the first grades. The teachers of the four rooms on the first floor represented the Mormon Church, the Catholic, the Jewish synagogue, and the Methodist, and we got along beautifully." In this same letter, Mrs. Aldrich tells other interesting things about herself; for instance, the fact that her husband passed away in church, and that while she was a young widow with four small children she stayed very much on the job of rearing them. She mentioned that her daughter, who is a graduate of Nebraska University, a member of several honorary organizations, "now has two lovely children" which is "best of all the things that have come to her." One of her sons is an artist in New York. (He did the paper jacket for her late book, Song of Years, which is a part of the literature course.) Another son is an 524 aeronautical engineer, and her youngest is a sophomore in the University of Nebraska, where he recently was awarded an honor in writing. All through her letter, Mrs. Aldrich reveals herself to be the same type of woman she depicts so satisfyingly in her novels. It is said that when she heard that a statue was to be erected to the pioneer mother in her state, she wrote her tribute to the pioneer mother in A Lantern in Her Hand, a tribute to nobility as great as any statue ever carved. She says she would have written the book even had she known that not a single copy would be sold. She little dreamed at that time that the novel would go into seventy large printings and make her the object of gratitude of thousands who would like to erect statues to genuine greatness but who lack the power she has to carve from words the dreams of their souls. Another of her greatly loved novels is White Bird Flying, which followed A Lantern in Her Hand. It, too, has the idealism which marks her tribute to the pioneer mother, the idealism to be found in all her novels. Dr. Blanche Colton Williams states that, "In her first novel, Mother Mason, the author's ideals, repeated in all her later works, fuse the tales, give them meaning, Woman, Mrs. Aldrich believes, is primarily wife and mother and family-builder and conservator of the race. Aspirations she should have, must have; but aspirations that imply the destruction of the home should never supersede her place in the home, the aim and end of woman's existence." Another critic's comment is: "Her greatest asset is her sanity, a sanity such as we are in sore need of today. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 She sees life not as a marsh where dwell foul things, nor yet as a mountain-top inhabited by beings only a little lower than the angels, but as a plain upon which live people like those we all know and call friends. Such people are vastly more difficult to create, to make interesting than those of the depths and the heights. She meets the challenge: her people live—they engage our affection." Her Miss Bishop is the first full-length novel based upon the life of a school teacher. Some readers feel that she is the Laura of this interesting story. She dedicated The Rim of the Prairie to her husband. This, and her latest book, Song of Years, depicts pioneer life in her native state, Iowa, as do others; such as, A Lantern in Her Hand. The lives of her own parents afforded ample material for the inspiration of these pioneer volumes. In the latter novel, she says: "Love is a light that you carry.... Childish happiness, romance, motherhood, and duty light it... And maybe afterwards, sorrow. Love is to a woman a lantern in her hand." Of her last book, Dr. Williams writes: "To read Song of Years is to follow an in memoriam not only of pioneer days in Iowa but of the first national crisis. Rough shod, homely, beautiful, the novel is more than a work of fiction: it is a monument to painstaking research in our history. Above all it entertains through the struggle of humanity 'pulling through' against difficult, even dangerous odds." And that can be said of the novels of the other women writers here discussed. Furthermore, they are themselves all women with the idealism they portray in their novels. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde III Diaries And Letters Two of the most unique forms of literature are found in diaries and letters. Comparatively few diaries have been kept, and fewer still have fallen into the hands of publishers. Those of people of importance which have reached the public have furnished interesting facts of history as well as sidelights on the personalities of the writers. Diary-keeping is a modern custom. None has been found which dates farther back than the 16th century. Only two diaries of English sovereigns are available to us—those of Edward VI and Queen Victoria. The diary of Edward is very formal in its style, although it was begun before he was twelve years of age. Just before his death, at the age of sixteen, he wrote in his diary, "I fell sick of the measles and smallpox." Wherever he wrote the word "Me" he used a capital "M," perhaps because he felt the importance of his position. The diary of Queen Victoria was begun at the age of thirteen. Until her death at the age of eighty-two, she made daily entries, filling more than one hundred volumes, an almost unbelievable accomplishment. She said she formed this habit because she considered it her duty. Her diary is not too interesting, but it portrays in detail her domestic life, her court life, and her personality. We feel her enthusiasm for simple things, and how lacking she was in pretense. When only sixteen, she wrote: "I love to be employed. I hate to be idle." Her character gave us the much used term, "Victorian." Quite different in style is the diary of Fanny Burney, the English author of the early novel "Evelina." She was a real diarist. She had an unusual facility for expression and wrote because she "couldn't help it." Her education in music and the fashionable society in which she grew up lend an unusual charm to her diary. Most of the published diaries are those of people of prominence. Expecting that they might be published, many such people write only what they want known. It is the diaries of obscure people which are most valuable; for example, those of our parents and grandparents, written not for the public but as a vent for their emotions or out of a desire to keep a scrapbook of events as they occurred. Great people write of great events, but it is the obscure person who puts in his record what he has for dinner, when he used his first toothbrush, why he has his particular religious convictions, and other intimate things which give a realistic picture of the writer. The bad grammar and sometimes poor spelling of our grandparents in no way detract from the merits of their diaries. On the contrary, such things add to their value. Let us preserve these old records exactly as they were written. 526 Letters may not be quite as spontaneous as diaries, for they are written with the knowledge that they will be read by someone else. However, they form an interesting type of literature. We find fine literary flavor in the letters of such famous people as James Russell Lowell, Charles Lamb, Lord Tennyson, Robert Louis Stevenson, William James and others. There is no finer reading for young people than the letters of Hans Christian Andersen, of Victor Hugo, of Martin Luther. And those of Phillips Brooks, published as A Year of Travel in Europe and India, written to his niece Gertie, would make geography an interesting study. Phillips Brooks, the great preacher, had no children of his own; but his love for children led him to write charming letters to his nieces. A book has recently been published of the letters of Lewis Carroll. Those who are fond of Alice in Wonderland will find a new friend in Lewis Carroll—a friend with a distinctly interesting personality. We reproduce here three charming letters of famous men. The letter of Martin Luther to his son Hans, which gives us his religious philosophy, was written more than 300 years ago, yet it has never grown old and is still beautiful. Notice the punctuation and lack of paragraphing. Luther's Letter to His Son Hans, Aged Six Grace and peace in Christ, my dear little son. I hear with great pleasure that you are learning your lessons so well and praying so diligently. Continue to do so, my son, and cease not. When I come home I will bring you a nice present from the fair, I know a beautiful garden, where there are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 a great many children in fine little coats and they go under the trees and gather beautiful apples and pears, cherries and plums; they sing and run about and are as happy as they can be. Sometimes they ride on nice little ponies, with golden bridles and silver saddles. I asked the man whose garden it is, "What little children are these?" And he told me, "They are little children who love to pray and learn and are good." When I said, "My dear sir, I have a little boy at home; his name is Hans Luther; would you let him come into the garden, too, to eat some of these nice apples and pears, and ride on these fine little ponies, and play with these children?" The man said, "If he loves to say his prayers and learn his lessons, and is a good boy, he may come; He then showed me a beautiful mossy place in the middle of the garden with a great many golden fifes and drums and silver crossbars. The children had not yet had their dinner, and I could not wait to see them play, but I said to the man, "My dear sir, I will go away and write all about it to my little son John, and tell him to be fond of saying his prayers, and learn well and be good, so that he may come into this garden; but he has a grand-aunt named Selme, whom he must bring with him." The man said, "Very well: go write him." Now my dear little son, love your lessons and your prayers, and tell Phillip and Jodocus to do so, too, that you may all come to the garden. May God bless you. Give Aunt Selme my love and kiss her for me. Your dear father, Martinus Luther. In the year 1530, (Coburg, June 19th) Note the bigness of the heart of Victor Hugo. Letter of Victor Hugo to His Daughter Didine Good morning, my pet; good morning, my dear little girlie. I promised to write to you. You see I am keeping my word. I have seen the sea, some fine churches, and some pretty country. The sea is large, the churches are handsome, the country is pretty; but the country is not as pretty as you, the churches are not as handsome as your mama, and the sea is not as great as my love for you all. My pet, I have often given half-pence to SOME LITERARY FRIENDS poor children walking barefooted by the roadside for your sakes, my little ones. I love you dearly. A few hours more and I shall be kissing you on your two dear little cheeks, and also my big Charlie and my little Dede, who will give me a smile, I hope, and my beloved Toto. Goodbye for the present, my Didine. Keep this letter. When you are grown up, I shall be old, you will show it to me, we shall love each other dearly; when you are old, you will show it to your children, and they will love you as much as I do. We shall soon meet. Your own Daddy. The imaginative nature of Hans Christian Andersen could not be kept out of his letters. Letter of Hans Andersen to a Little Friend Dear Little Marie:— Pappa and mama can read this letter to you, as you cannot read it yourself yet; but only wait till this time four years; ah, then you'll be able to read everything. I know. I am in the country now like you.... It is so nice, and I have had some strawberries, large, red strawberries, with cream—Have you any? One can taste them right down in one's stomach. Yesterday I went down to the sea... And sat upon a rock by the shore. Presently a large white bird that they call a gull came flying along. It flew right toward me, so that I fancied it would have stopped me with its wings; but, mercy on us, it said, "Mamaree!" "Why what's the matter?" I asked. "Mamaree!" it said again, and then, of course, I understood that "Mamaree" meant Marie. "Ah," said I, "then you bring me a greeting from Marie, that's what it is, eh?" "Ya-ya! Mamaree," Mamaree," it said. It couldn't say it any better than that for it only knew the gull language, and that is not very much like ours. "Thanks for the greeting," said I, and off flew the gull. After that, as I was walking in the garden, a little sparrow came flying up. "I suppose you now have flown a long way?" said I. "Vit, vit," (far, far,) it said. "Did you see Marie," I asked. "Tit, tit, tit," (often, often, often) it said. "Then give my greeting to Marie, for I suppose you are going back?" I said. "Lit, lit," (a little, little), it replied. If it has not come yet, it will come later on but first I'll send you this letter. You may feed the little bird, if you like, but you must not squeeze it. Now greet from me all good people, all sensible beasts and all the pretty flowers that wither before I see them. Isn't it nice to be in the country, to paddle in the water, to eat lots of nice things, and to get a letter from your sweetheart. H. C. Andersen. With all the changes that have taken place in the last 150 years, this letter of a Quaker father to his son, is still filled with sound advice, particularly the N. B. Which reads, "Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee." To Isaac Shreve From His Beloved Father Alexandria, 29th, the 5th month, 1794. Dear Son Isaac: Thee is now going from under the care of thy loving father, whose eyes have been ever watchful for thy good, into the wide world. Thee will be now under the care of Captain Very, who will advise thee for thy good and I would wish thee to be advised by him. I have thought it most for thy good for thee to go to Salem to learn the trade of a tanner. If Captain Very can get thee a place to suit, I would advise thee to stay; if not, come home by the first opportunity that offers. As thee will be among strangers, take good care how thee forms acquaintances. Let them be friends (meaning Quakers) if possible, and steady, sober lads, older than thyself, and the fewer, the better. A young man's happiness both in this world and that which is to come, in a great measure depends upon the connections he forms when young. Keep steady to meeting and to plainness both in speech and apparel and the God that made us will protect thee from all harm. Above all things, be true to thy trust and defraud no man though 528 the thing be small. But do unto men as thee would that they should do unto thee. And by so doing, thee will gain the esteem of all good men and thy master and come up in the world a useful member of society. Thee will have peace in thy own mind which cannot be taken away but by actions which I hope thee will not be guilty of. If I should be spared to live until thee comes of age, I am in hopes to be able to set thee up in thy intended business, so that by care and industry thee may soon get above the frowns of this world. But if I should be taken from works to rewards, thee may expect an equal share of what I leave behind me, provided thee conducts thyself in a sober, orderly manner, If thee agrees to stay, I shall send thee a certificate which thee must take to the monthly meeting. As there will be many opportunities, I would have thee to write often and let me know if thee stand in need of anyRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST, 1940 thing, and I will endeavor to furnish thee from time to time. I want thee to serve five years and a half. Then thee will have some time in the winter which will give time for thee to prepare for settling thyself in the spring following. I now recommend thee to that God that has protected me from my youth until this time (my father having died when I was about four years old). And I am sure He is the same Heavenly Father that ever He was and will remain to protect and preserve all those that love and fear Him. From thy loving father Signed Bery Shreve. N. B. Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee. I shall furnish thee with small matters of money according as I hear of thy behavior. Often read this advice and endeavor to follow it. REQUITE O do not weep for me; I shall return When April looses blossoms from the bough With pink and gentle fingers. You shall learn My voice anew when rains fall soft; and how My hand will lie in yours, then lift your hair In brief but lingering caress—the way It used to do. And then I shall be there When moonlight in the garden follows day, Day so bright it seemed to mock your pain— But somber now; leaves move, a white moth dips; These roses painted pale are ours again, For I shall drink their breath, then kiss your lips. O do not weep for me; my love is yet So near your heart—my heart cannot forget. —Jessie J. Dalton. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon August — A restful hour for books, dreams, and meditation is a soul enrichment. Reading is one recreation which relaxes and refreshes both mind and body during the long summer days. It also may help one to forget for a time the sorrows and turmoil confronting the people of the world today. Among recent engaging books from the pens of English women novelists, one notes Mrs. Miniver by Jan Streether, whose identity is only recently revealed. Elizabeth, author of the delightful book Mr. Skeffington, mentioned last month, is no other than Countess Russell, author of the charming book Elizabeth and Her German Garden of forty years ago. Then, Angela Thirkell's amusing story, Before Lunch, which affords the fillip: "If you start Before Lunch before dinner you can't stop Before Lunch before breakfast; but, if you begin Before Lunch after breakfast you can finish Before Lunch after dinner or before supper if you haven't started Before Lunch before lunch." One wonders what will now be the field of work for these gifted women. Other interesting books by women are The Family, the Atlantic Monthly's $10,000 prize novel, by Antonina Riasanonsky, pen name Nina Fedrovna, of South America; Biography of Richard Brindley Sheridan, English dramatist, by Alice Glasgow, and Our Southwest by Erna Ferguson, a colorful first novel. Hattie Bagley Maughan, of Utah, for her one-act play, Of Goodly Parentage, won first honor in the contest of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. Her play will be presented in the Pasadena Playhouse. Amassolova, chief matron of the Red Cross Hospital in Athens, was recently awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal. Agnes B. Sutton, of Cape Province, South Africa, has been appointed prosecutor in the Juvenile Courts of the province—the first woman to receive such appointment. Sonja Henie, Olympic figure-skating champion and film favorite, was married last month to the wealthy New York sportsman Daniel Reid Topping. Doris Duke Cromwell, heiress to millions, has offered to support 500 English refugee children. Elizabeth Bergner, famous Viennese actress, is being sought for the leading role in Robert Sherwood's London presentation, "There Shall Be No Night." Alice Marble, tennis star and holder of the titles in both the English and American singles and doubles, again carried off the honors in the finals at the National Clay Courts Tournament. Susan Glaspell's novel, The Morning Is Near Us, has already sold one hundred thousand copies and been bought for film production. This book won the Literary Guild selection for April. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman Marcia K. Howells Donna D. Sorensen Vera W. Pohlman Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude B. Garlff Marianne C. Sharp Zona B. Fetzer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Editor Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager Amy Brown Lyman 

Vol. XXVII AUGUST, 1940 No. 8 EDITORIAL The Power of Composure At various times and under different circumstances special character traits seem particularly desirable. Dependability, courage, loyalty, affability, and a long list which we might enumerate, while desirable at all times, take on special significance under certain circumstances. The pioneer would b helpless without courage; the man in business finds dependability a requirement; in the social group affability is of outstanding importance, and so forth. In today's strife-swept and insecure world, a character trait which stands out as of paramount importance is composure. Composure implies a settled state of mind, calmness, tranquility, self-possession. The possession of this trait enables the individual to face facts squarely, to think clearly, to reason intelligently and to arrive at sound conclusions. Composure does not imply that an individual is less sensitive to the seriousness of a situation, nor does it lessen the evil or make the condition less grievous, but it enables the individual to draw fully upon all his inner resources in meeting a situation and is the first step in the intelligent solution of his problem. Too often when we face a grave situation, when our accustomed way of life is interrupted, when some unexpected calamity sweeps down upon us, or even when we are overworked or face tasks for which we feel inadequate, a sort of hysteria takes possession of us; our normal poise is upset, and we "go to pieces." We exhibit imperfect self-control and indulge in destructive emotional outbursts. Thus, we lose mastery of both self and the situation. Though we recognize the power of composure, we argue, "Anyone would be upset facing what I face." We genuinely believe it would be more than human to remain calm and serene. But the emotions need education as well as the mind. We should strive constantly to engender in ourselves emotional stability. We should form habits which utilize our emotional energy in constructive ways. Not being able to change a situation, we should try changing our attitude toward it. While it is probably true that some people naturally possess a greater degree of emotional stabil- EDITORIAL ity than others, an honest effort to be less sensitive to disturbing stimuli and to remain self-possessed under trying circumstances usually results in improved behavior. We all admire and are inclined to follow the individual who is master of his emotions. We can all recall numerous instances in which the composure of one person made him master of the group. The Church is proud of its record of composed leadership; it is equally proud of its numerous examples of outstanding group composure. Recall with me the terrible experience of the Saints at the time of the Martyrdom. It was expected that the outraged and grief-stricken people would burn the town. The people of Carthage fled in all directions, even the governor and his posse took flight; but there was no uprising or violence on the part of the Saints. Elder Willard Richards stood before eight or ten thousand Saints at Nauvoo and advised them "to keep the peace." He stated that he had pledged his honor and his life for their peaceful conduct. When the multitude heard that, notwithstanding the scene of outraged justice under which they labored, and the cruel invasion of the rights of liberty and life?in the very midst of their grief and excitement, with the means at their hands to wreak a terrible vengeance, they voted to a man to follow the counsel of their leader. Such composure is scarcely paralleled in the history of our country?if in the world. 531 Brigham Young displayed the same type of composed leadership. On July 24, 1857, President Young and 2,587 persons were encamped at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, celebrating the tenth anniversary of their entrance into the Salt Lake Valley. A spirit of peace, joy, and patriotism prevailed, when men bearing "war news" rode in upon the scene. The United States Army was about to invade the Utah territory; everything the Saints owned would be destroyed. Yet, there was no hysterical nervousness. President Young received the message quietly, and Church history records: ".. The afternoon's merriment went on as if no messengers... had arrived. At about sunset the camp assembled for prayers, when President Wells made a few remarks in relation to 'the latest news from the states,' upon the order of leaving ground in the morning, and concluded with prayer." The calm, wise leaders evolved a plan whereby the invading army proved a blessing to the struggling settlers. The confidence of the people in their leaders, their knowledge of the Gospel, and their unwavering faith in God, gave them an almost superhuman composure. An understanding of the plan of life and salvation, which can come to the meekest and most humble of us through consistent effort to learn and live the Gospel of Jesus Christ, is the greatest power in the world to equip us to meet whatever life has to offer with reason and intelligence, to remain composed and unafraid?come what may. NOTES TO THE FIELD Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest The Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Contest is conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board. Three prizes are awarded: a first prize of $15, a second prize of $10, and a third prize of $5. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Magazine, and closes October 15. This contest offers another opportunity to the women of our Church to do creative work. The object of the contest is to encourage women to write poetry and to appreciate more deeply the beauty and value of poetic verse. About 1400 poems have been entered in this contest since 1923. May this be a climax year for participation and excellence of poetry. RULES OF THE CONTEST 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. 4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. Only one side of the paper should be used. 6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used. 7. A statement should accompany the poem submitted, certifying that it is the contestant's original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided. 8. Members of the General Board and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest. 9. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers. 11. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15. 12. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
NOTES TO THE FIELD
Membership Drive Time For Action
MEMBERSHIP work has rested for a season. Now it is again time for action?industrious and concerted action. We need to bring together our most creative thinking and tactful determination to insure an increase by December 31, 1941, of one-third of the 1937 membership. Relief Society is challenged to assist in meeting a present-day need. We, as Latter-day Saint women, desire to strengthen our homes. A comprehensive knowledge of the Gospel, a clear concept of the Latter-day Saint way of life, can fortify us and our families against demoralizing influences. Our challenge is to search out those who are not now Relief Society members; also, to revitalize our enrolled members who are not actively participating. Let us convince them that Relief Society can give purpose and direction to their living, and that they, in serving a glorious cause, enrich the lives of others. It is a reciprocal opportunity. A summary of material presented in the membership department of the Relief Society April, 1940, conference was reserved for this issue of the Magazine, believing that it would better serve the membership workers if presented just prior to the 1940 drive. Due to the shortened educational year (October through May), the time of the intensive membership drive has been changed. Instead of extending from September 15 to December 15, it will now begin October 1 and close December 31. Since "well begun is half done," we urge a preparation meeting far enough in advance of the opening date of the drive to insure efficiency from the start. Stated briefly, our job is: get them coming, keep them coming. We are told that sponsors of new radio programs and advertising schemes usually allow two or more years for an idea to "take hold." The past two years' performance in membership growth assures us that the Relief Society Membership Campaign has taken hold. With a receptive attitude already built up among our Church membership, we are confident that the work this year will be even more pleasurable and successful. Substantially larger gains in new membership will result in unity and strength to the whole body of Latter-day Saint women.
1940 Magazine Drive
SEPTEMBER 15 to October 15 is the time assigned to Relief Society for its annual Magazine drive. Plans should now be under way in all stakes and wards, missions and branches, to make the 1940 drive the most successful up to date. The outstanding record made in 1939 is a challenge to our best efforts. Success depends upon conversion to the work, careful planning and united effort. Alert, energetic Magazine representatives, supported by enthusiastic executive officers and a loyal Relief Society membership are sure to attain their goals.
534
The goal of the drive is a subscription list equal to the total number of enrolled Relief Society members. Each ward and branch Magazine representative reporting a subscription list equal to 75 per cent or above of the total enrollment of her ward or branch as of December 31, 1939, will have her ward or branch record and her name published on the Honor Roll in the December issue of the Magazine. Stakes and missions securing a subscription list equal to 75 per cent of their total enrollment as of December 31, 1939, will also have their records published, together with the name of the stake or mission Magazine representative. All subscriptions taken from October 15, 1939, to October 15, 1940, are to be included in figuring 1940 percentages. Subscriptions taken after October 15, 1940, will be included in the 1941 drive. Detailed rules for the conduct of the drive and the earning of awards,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
supplies such as receipt books and order blanks, and forms on which to report to the General Board at the end of the drive, will be mailed to the stakes sufficiently early for the drive. Helpful suggestions for the successful conduct of the drive, given in the Magazine department at Relief Society general conference, April 1940, are summarized in this issue of the Magazine beginning on page 543. The General Board deeply appreciates the work done by the Magazine representatives. In past years they have worked enthusiastically, efficiently and unselfishly. They have rendered a valuable service to the General Board, to the local organizations and to the thousands of women who are now subscribers. The goals attained in the past, the spirit with which the work has been carried forward, the good resulting from the activity justify the prediction of another outstanding drive in 1940. The General Board extends its best wishes for a banner year.
TWO EDITIONS OF ADAM BEDE
ATTENTION is called to the June Relief Society Magazine, page 423, in which the books for the Literature course for 1940-41 are announced. The book Adam Bede is available in two editions, and but one of these needs to be chosen. Ward and stake literature class leaders should make a choice between the two editions of Adam Bede which are offered and specify in their orders to the Deseret Book Company which one of the two they desire.
"There's no dearth of kindness In this world of ours; Only in our blindness We gather thorns for flowers." ?Gerald Massey.
Relief Society Membership and Magazine Drives
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
A summary of the proceedings at the department meetings on the membership and Magazine drives at the general Relief Society conference, April 3, 1940. This summary was withheld from the main report of the conference, which was published in the May, 1940, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, so that it could appear just before the intensive annual drives, which are conducted from September 15 to October 15 for the Magazine, and from October 1 to December 31 for membership. A general statement precedes the condensed reports of conference talks given at each of these department meetings.
The Membership Drive
LOOKING forward to the Relief Society Centennial in 1942, the General Board of Relief Society early in 1938 inaugurated a four-year campaign for a membership increase of one-third, by the end of 1941, over the membership as of December 31, 1937. Half of this four-year period had elapsed by the end of 1939, and, accordingly, membership data derived from the annual reports of the wards and branches for 1939 were carefully analyzed and reviewed because of their significance in revealing the progress which had been made and indicating the possibilities of reaching the goal two years later. It was found that, for all Relief Societies throughout the Church, membership had reached 86,142 by December 31, 1939?a net gain during the two-year period of 11,078 or 14 per cent over the 1937 figures of 75,004. There were wide differences, however, in the percentage of increase reported by the various stakes and missions. A few of them had suffered a slight decline, but others had nearly doubled their membership. The six missions and twelve stakes which, midway in the drive, had already achieved a net increase of one-third or more, were recognized in the membership department of the April conference, where their names were read together with their respective numerical and percentage increases, as shown in the accompanying table. All six of the missions and four of the stakes included in this group had recorded membership gains of approximately 50 per-cent or more, ranging from 48 per cent in the Brazilian Mission to 88 per cent in the Seattle Stake. Representatives of this latter group of stakes and missions were introduced individually to the congregation in the membership department of the April conference. It is recognized that because of varying conditions in the different stakes and missions, considerable variance in the rates of increase in membership is to be expected. In some districts the greater proportion of eligible women were already enrolled in Relief Society prior to the inauguration of the drive; whereas, in other sections of the Church, the field of potential members was much larger; and, in still other areas, local conditions may justify some in-
536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
STAKES AND MISSIONS WHOSE 1939 RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP REPRESENTED AN INCREASE OF ONE-THIRD OR MORE OVER THAT OF 1937
Seattle Stake Texas Mission Mexican Mission Portland Stake Northwestern States Mission... East Central States Mission... Western States Mission........... Carbon Stake Oakland Stake Brazilian Mission San Fernando Stake... Sacramento Stake....... New York Stake..... Phoenix Stake......... Pasadena Stake.... Smithfield Stake Boise Stake South Davis Stake
Membership Increase 1937 1939 Number Percent 193 363 170 88 246 447 201 82 182 315 133 73 242 403 161 67 790 1294 504 64 261 401 140 54 576 884 308 52 701 1054 353 50 390 581 191 49 54 80 26 48 279 405 126 45 243 343 100 41 174 239 65 37 262 354 92 35 341 430 89 34 505 676 171 34 249 333 84 33 671 891 220 33
evitable losses. Consequently, although the net increase may not be so large in some districts as in others, the effort of Relief Societies everywhere to enroll all eligible women is equally appreciated by the General Board. Furthermore, Relief Societies everywhere are faced with the same challenge?the challenge of so conducting and developing their organizations that high attendance rates will be assured and the benefits of Relief Society membership extended to the greatest possible number of members. (See also, "Notes to the Field," page 533.)
MEASURING UP
Rae B. Barker Member of the General Board of Relief Society
(Note: The following summarized comments are in explanation of points diagrammed on mimeographed sheets relating to the four-year (1938-1941) membership drive which were distributed at the conference. )
A Good Rule
Our objective for the first two years was that we might make a net gain of 12,500 new members. Our actual increase for 1938 and 1939 was 11,058. The second year we gained more than the first, and still there are stakes that have scarcely tapped their resources. This fact, we feel, justifies an optimistic outlook upon achieving our objective of 25,000 new members by 1942. We believe the secret for measuring up can be found in this very good rule: "Do more? grow more."
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
Fertile Field: Small Yield and Great
Typifying a fertile field but a small yield, is the Relief Society with an enrollment of 900, with 2,700 Latter-day Saint families from which to draw, and with an annual increase of only 12. A great yield is typified by the Relief Society with an enrollment of 500, having 2,000 Latter-day Saint families to draw from, and an annual increase of 200 members.
Comparative Progress
The per cent of increase achieved by your stake will tell at what rate you are traveling?whether by covered wagon, pony express, automobile, streamlined train or airplane. Twelve stakes and six missions have exceeded the general goal of an increase of 33? per-cent, one stake reaching 88 per cent. These percentages are based on net increases, not the total number of new members but the increases after deducting withdrawals, removals and deaths.
Around the World
Each local unit is an integral part of a great movement divinely established for women's best interests. Looking at it from this angle, we would no doubt catch a vision of Relief Society as it operates, serving Latter-day Saint women around the world. Are we measuring up to our greatest possibilities in extending the service of Relief Society to others? Where the Latter-day Saint population is greatest, we must make the greatest growth. The general quota of an increase of one-third is not, of course, a true measure of what can
537
be accomplished in all localities. Some stakes have far exceeded their quotas, and this is as it should be, to offset conditions where only slight increases are possible. In some stakes even a decrease is inevitable. We will, of course, always remember that our real objective is to reach all who would share in the benefits of Relief Society.
Out of Balance
The membership project would be out of balance if we devoted all our attention to enrolling members. We cannot neglect the factors which influence attendance. Coordinators are dependent upon the officers and class leaders to fulfill the promises of value which they make to prospective members. We look to our very competent presidents to provide the type of organization and quality of meetings that will continually challenge interest.
Good Leadership?the Key
A president's position is a key position. She spreads her attention in various directions. She secures competent class leaders. She builds up a happy atmosphere. Group cooperation and group enthusiasm definitely depend upon her. All these greatly influence sound membership growth with consistent attendance. There must be great satisfaction in being the kind of president who makes each of us feel that she is genuinely interested in us, or the kind of class leader who makes her work so interesting that we feel we cannot afford to miss her class. Membership coordinators have been appointed to assist the presidents in the membership drive. Perhaps support and cooperation sum up the presi-
538
dent's responsibility. This includes active interest, consultation on plans and arrangements, approval of publicity measures, etc.?most of all, the encouragement of the coordinators. Only through the president can coordinators arrange for needed preparation of membership workers, for special instructions to visiting teachers, for specialized help from class leaders, or for time and opportunity to create general interest in the drive. To succeed in the membership drive we need presidents who are one hundred per cent for it. The groups over which you preside are as sensitive to your attitude as a barometer is to changes in atmospheric conditions. Your hearty approval, or your lack of it, does more in the success or failure of this campaign than most of us realize.
Coordinators Lead the Way
A coordinator's responsibility is the what and the how of interesting and enrolling in Relief Society all eligible women. Her assignment requires a great amount of creative but practical thinking to work out actual procedure in all its detail. Her assignment also includes securing the necessary help to put her ideas into operation. The creative genius for developing and carrying on the membership drive lies in your individual units, and initiative would be retarded if detailed plans went out from the General Board. The following rules, taken from work plans prepared and used by stake membership coordinators, may help you to measure up: Attack your work with faith, prayer, and enthusiasm; make every member "membership conscious"; let the ward members know of the membership objective for
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
1942; make Relief Society popular and give it as much worthy publicity as possible; attempt to inform all members of the merits of Relief Society, asking for assistance in this from officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers; inform new members of requirements as to dues and participation; after the drive closes, continue to work to keep up attendance.
Let's Have Sails All Set?Oct. 1
Start early on this year's preparation for the membership drive. It takes time to originate or to gather ideas, to test their workability, to iron out snags, and to improve on the first draft of your plan. Remember, too, that you are dealing with groups, and group action is slower than individual action. At the very outset of your planning, check the number of Latter-day Saint families living in your stake or ward. Compare that figure with your Relief Society enrollment and you will have some indication of the increase you should make. A tentative yearly activity program will be an economy measure. Take into account the regular and special occasions, including socials, Relief Society ward conference, Fifth Tuesdays, and Anniversary Day, which normally constitute the Relief Society calendar, and determine how these may be used effectively in promoting membership. Plan some occasions where the whole ward population may be aroused to interest in the drive.
Share the Wealth
Relief Society is not just another study group. We find here possibilities for rounded spiritual richness rarely found in so full a measure. The membership drive is our mis-
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
sionary project among our own. It is Relief Society's share-the-wealth plan. Today we haven't the common physical dangers or enemies that faced women in the early years of the Church, and which tended to draw them close together, almost with the solidarity of a family. Now, there are many competitive influences making inroads which may adversely affect our unity and strength. I believe that the leaders of this organization were inspired to make the call to seek out and gather the women of the Church into Relief Society
539
under the influence of the Gospel that we might stand unitedly together, a power for good. There may be ahead of us great need for the strength of simple faith in God. We may be facing a time when we will need burning personal testimonies to fortify us with courage, as did our pioneer mothers. If we possess the pioneering urge, that forward-moving drive, that altruistic attitude, an indefatigable spirit of working for a cause, the question of "measuring up" will have a positive answer.
KEEP THE DRIVE ALIVE
Estella McIntire Coordinator, Carbon Stake Relief Society
ONLY that which has a spark of life can be kept alive. In the membership drive, this spark was an idea with possibilities for growth and endless development passed out to us by our General Board. Because Carbon Stake has been successful in reaching its quota in the membership drive, we have been asked to tell of our methods. Because I am the coordinator, I have been asked to represent the Carbon Stake, but I have played but a minute part in the success of our drive and have offered suggestions only where needed. I was fortunate in having the complete cooperation of our entire board and of the members of our stake. In our drive there were seven salient points of action: preparedness, projected interest or a definite goal to anticipate, personalized approach, showmanship with interest, keeping interest week by week, theme-writing contest, and recognition of the accomplishment. In preparing for the drive we first discussed it at stake board meeting until all phases were understood, the opening date of the drive set, and a definite plan of action outlined. Every available source of information was gone over until we felt ourselves equipped to go out and do the job well. At the first union meeting in September, the ward coordinators were called into session as a group. There the plans were discussed and new ideas accepted and some discarded. At the same time, the executives were selling the idea in their departments and converting all ward officers so that perfect cooperation would be assured. Feeling next the need of immediate personal interest among our members and prospects, we arranged an announcement program which we thought would capture and hold their attention. The twenty-one coordinators, the music director, the chorus, and several program par-
540
ticipants met early in another room on union meeting day. We had previously asked for ten minutes of every ward meeting for six weeks to carry on our work. To the strains of One Hundred Thousand Strong we marched into the assembly room wearing blue caps with the announcement date printed in gold. The printed announcements, which were wrapped around gold-colored sticks of candy and tied with ribbon, were passed out by the coordinators. They also carried the slogan, "Every Member Get A Member." After these had been distributed, the coordinators formed a half circle, and a two-minute sales talk on "A Worth While Organization" was given by one of them. The stake coordinator then passed quota certificates to the ward coordinators with the following request: "Coordinators of the Carbon Stake, with this little certificate, I commission you to raise your quota thirteen per cent, thereby making a gain of fifty per cent in two years. In all humility I ask you to pledge yourselves to the task." The ward coordinators then took the following pledge: "I pledge by the help of the Lord to do my best to make this membership drive a success." The audience took the same pledge; then all joined in the rally song, and our drive was on its way. Departmental work followed where helps and hints were given for the entire month. We had set a goal for thirteen per cent for one year, with a recognition program at the end?an incentive to keep the drive alive. We felt that our personalized appeal must go still further; so the following week the entire stake board
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
participated in a get-acquainted missionary drive throughout the stake wherever possible. The members of the board met with the ward officers. Each ward was divided into districts, and one ward officer and one stake officer went out together to cover each district. Some very fine and successful contacts were made. The ward coordinator was asked to follow up this canvass with notes, telephone calls, and weekly visits to the prospective new members. With the belief that "the eye is more receptive than the ear" we tried to stress more and better showmanship by using interest devices such as catchy slogans, skits, demonstrations, and welcome cards. October 31, being a fifth Tuesday, was to be celebrated as "guest day." Each member was asked to bring as many guests as she liked, and all department leaders were asked to sell their wares in a skit or stunt, with as much showmanship as possible. We tried to impress the class leaders with the idea that although we could bring in new members it was their responsibility to hold them with efficient lesson presentation. Some very original and spectacular programs were given all over the stake. Lessons were demonstrated in costume; greeting committees were formed and sociability stressed. Guests were given every consideration. All members were asked to help make Relief Society popular by talking it and advertising its fine lessons and good class leaders. We created personal appeal through individual invitations, cleverly devised party favors, and inquiry cards following absence. Crowd appeal was achieved through programs, guest days, and frequent introduction of new slogans. By having each member seek out a new member we were able to reach every part of the ward. New members were given responsibilities when advisable, and those gifted in art were asked to help with our show-card writing. To keep up interest week by week we decided to give away a little favor each week carrying a suggestive thought; such as, "sails all set" on a gumdrop ship, "only three more weeks of the drive" on an animal cart, and "pull together" on an ox cart. Each of these favors was the theme for a weekly sales talk. Rally songs were used often in community sings. There was a weekly progress chart and an honor roll; and one ward used a tree, naming the leaves for the Relief Society members. The type of device used depended on the originality of the ward coordinator, because we did stress originality. On union meeting day a little book of memory was given to each ward coordinator, reminding her of her responsibilities for the entire month so that there would be no excuse for loss of memory. Next, some satisfying form of recognition of each ward's accomplishment was provided, first in ward receptions and finally in a stake reception. At the ward reception, the new members were ushered to seats of honor, and each old member introduced her enrollees. One 1939 member brought in five 1940 members, and one new member entered into the canning enterprise with much spirit. Women who haven't been to Relief Society for twenty years are now attending, and one is coming in a wheel chair. The grand finale was a stake reception where each ward received its recognition certificate, and a candlelighting ceremony was performed, honoring the winners in both the Magazine drive and the membership drive. The candle was to be kept by the winning ward for one year to give light to its programs and also to light the way for a bigger and better drive in 1941. Corsages made from the harvest field were awarded, and a homemade box of goodies carrying the Christmas greetings of the stake board was presented to each member. In our theme-writing contest, only thirteen themes were entered, but the type of essay received was very good, one of them winning recognition from the General Board. In all our work we have put forth our very best efforts to make it as cultural as we could with as little expense as possible. It definitely has not been a one-man drive, but a drive carried on by the seven hundred and one members of Carbon Stake. For the year 1940, one thousand and fifty members will "keep the drive alive" in Carbon Stake. We have "sails all set" to make Relief Society popular and to sell membership in the finest women's organization in the world.
"When a man turns his back upon the light, he sees nothing but his own shadow."?Robert Layton.
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
541
542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
THE MEMBERSHIP DRIVE IN THE NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION
Ann P. Nibley President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society
OUR 1939 membership shows an increase of 64 per cent over that of 1937. This increase gives our mission fifth place among stakes and missions of the Church during this period. We humbly attribute this success to the following reasons: 1. The spirit and love of Relief Society work which exists in rich abundance among our faithful officers and members, the same spirit which urged them to outstanding success in the Magazine drive, and. The same spirit which lessens the burden of traveling from 25 to 300 miles to attend conferences and union meetings, 2. The rapid growth of the mission from the outside. Nearly 100 persons per month are moving into the Northwest from the states of Utah and Idaho. The Latter-day Saint women among this number are eager for the opportunities, the advantages and culture which attendance at Relief Society meetings brings them. Wide-awake membership coordinators have little difficulty in enrolling these women. 3. The opportunity, with the help of our missionaries, of organizing in the last three years 42 new Societies, including two in Alaska?one at Anchorage and one at Fairbanks. The latter two organizations are the farthest north Societies in the Church, and both have doubled their membership in the last year. 4. The energetic work of the mission, district and branch coordinators, and the splendid cooperation they have received from Relief Society members. The work of these coordinators is continuous. As soon as the drive is finished in December, follow-up work is begun, new plans are made and started for the next drive. Many interesting and unique ideas are carried out by coordinators to keep the interest up week by week, and "the drive alive." Each member has been given the responsibility of interesting and bringing to the meetings one new member, at the same time still giving special attention to the member she was successful in adding to the rolls during the last drive. 5. Special recognition and awards to members writing essays of outstanding merit. Awards were also given by the mission to the district and branch coordinators gaining the most new members. These awards were presented on the special Anniversary Day programs. The names of those receiving special recognition are printed in our mission Relief Society bulletins, which are sent to all of our Relief Society officers. Through special meetings, songs, plays, socials, interesting projects, the mission bulletin, union meetings and conferences, every member has been made "membership conscious."
The Magazine Drive
A feature of the department meeting on Relief Society Magazine at the April general conference was the presentation of a leather-bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939 as an award to each of the twelve women who obtained the highest scores in the Magazine drive in 1939. The names of these award winners, together with identification of the Relief Societies which they represent and the record of their achievement, were in the December, 1939, issue of the Magazine. A clever skit, "Which Are You?" demonstrating effectual and ineffectual methods of presenting the merits of the Magazine to prospective subscribers was presented at this session of the conference. The dialogue was written by Luacine S. Clark, wife of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; the characters were represented by Bessie Jones (now general secretary-treasurer of the Primary Association), Luacine C. Fox and Elsie Ramsden, all KSL radio players. A complete text of this skit will be mailed soon to all stake and mission Magazine representatives, together with a supply of order blanks, receipt books, etc. The package of supplies will also contain revised regulations and instructions to Magazine representatives for the conduct of the annual Magazine drive and the preparation of reports to be submitted to the General Board at the end of the drive. These instructions were discussed at the Magazine department of the general conference by Belle S. Spafford of the General Board. (See also, "Notes to the Field," page 533.)
THE STAKE PRESIDENT'S PLACE IN THE DRIVE
Agnes M. Bolto President, Granite Stake Relief Society
IMMEDIATELY after the Relief Society Magazine drive in 1938, we began preparations for the 1939 drive. We felt that the Magazine in every home would stimulate attendance and increase membership. Plans were discussed in a stake board meeting, and every board member was asked to lend support to the stake Magazine representative in her work of assisting and stimulating the ward representatives in reaching the desired goal. At the first union meeting after the drive began, our stake representative gave a five-minute talk, giving a brief history and interesting facts concerning the Magazine. At every union meeting thereafter the presiding officer mentioned the Magazine briefly or read an article or poem from it which correlated with the season or the subject of the day. The ward presidents were asked to bring the Magazine before their groups every Tuesday in a similar manner. It is not an uncommon thing on Work-and-Business Day, while the women are quilting and sewing, to hear the ward Magazine representative read an article from the Magazine which radiates human interest and touches the experience of all.
544
Then the visiting teachers were asked to cooperate by taking the Magazine with them on their monthly visits, by referring to the Magazine when discussing the "Message to the Home," and by referring the names of prospective subscribers to the Magazine representative. Having no outlined message for the month of September, the visiting teachers announced the annual Magazine drive during that month, leaving in every home a printed leaflet which called attention to the value of the Magazine and to the new features added since the last drive. Prior to the drive, we held a meeting with each ward presidency and Magazine representative, where we considered a comparative report prepared by the stake Magazine representative showing for each respective ward the number of subscriptions during each of the three years preceding, the number of renewals and new subscriptions necessary to obtain one hundred per cent (i. e., Magazine subscriptions equal to the total number of members), the number of Latter-day Saint families in the ward, the number of Relief Society executive and special officers and visiting teachers and the number of these taking the Magazine. A bulletin setting forth desirable attitudes of a Magazine representative, obstacles to overcome in selling, and outstanding features of the Magazine was handed to each Magazine representative. A loose-leaf folder containing a list of all the families
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
visited by the teachers in each district, checked to indicate Relief Society members and Magazine subscribers was prepared and arranged for each ward Magazine representative. Another record, covering a four-year period, was kept of all subscribers in each district, listing addresses of the subscribers and expiration dates of subscriptions. At the beginning of the drive, the stake board gave a luncheon for ward presidents and ward Magazine representatives where ways and means were discussed for the selling of the Magazine and a splendid article on salesmanship was given to each representative. During the drive, the ward representatives reported progress weekly to the stake representative and president. A moving-picture show is sponsored every year during this drive by one of our wards. Every woman who sells ten tickets receives a subscription to the Magazine. In this ward, with 107 members, the number of Magazine subscriptions has equalled the number of members for the past five years. I acknowledge with gratitude the loyalty and faithfulness of the whole membership of Granite Stake. The benefits derived from the work of those connected with the Magazine drive can hardly be measured; not only has the stake accomplished its purpose of one hundred per cent, but its organizations have been strengthened.
"SELF-CONFIDENCE is a positive attitude built on the sure foundation of inner worth, with faith ever present."
RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERSHIP AND MAGAZINE DRIVE
545
FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO SUCCESS IN MAGAZINE DRIVE
Camille W. Halliday Magazine Representative, Ensign Stake Relief Society
(Note: In behalf of the twelve Magazine representatives who were awarded bound volumes of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939, Mrs. Halliday responded with appreciation, and with a discussion of factors contributing to the success of the Magazine drive in her stake, which is summarized here. )
FIRST, I would list enthusiasm. Charles M. Schwab said, "A person will succeed in anything about which he has real enthusiasm, in which he is genuinely interested; he will encounter barriers, but will meet them with such energy of thought and action that they will vanish before his onslaughts." Second, know your subject. Without personal knowledge we cannot hope to interest others. Irresistibly we are drawn to that which is made to appear close to our individual needs. Third, cooperation. It is the members that make the wards and stakes. There can be no progress without individual cooperation. Every advancement of the member advances the group. I reserved a month of my time to personally assist the ward representatives during the Magazine drive. In one or two instances where the wards were having difficulty in attaining the desired goal, I met several times with them, helped them organize their groups and personally canvassed some of their blocks. As stake Magazine representatives, be one with the women in your wards, keep informed of their progress during the drive, encourage and praise them for the special effort they are making to reach their goal. Keep your group together throughout the year by meeting with them as frequently as necessary at union meeting. There are no designated lessons for the Magazine representatives at these meetings, but we have met and discussed subjects which would help us to be better Magazine agents. During the past year we have taken up such subjects as salesmanship, personality, friendship, service, habits, dependability, and optimism.
"How sweet and gracious, even in common speech, Is that fine sense which men call Courtesy! Wholesome as air and genial as the light, Welcome in every clime as breath of flowers, It transmutes aliens into trusting friends And gives its owner passport round the globe." ?James T. Fields.
Cathedral of Peace
Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER TEN
down the slope and passed close by the Elkhorn feeding lot. He gave it no more than a passing glance, for he had no knowledge of the number of stock supposed to be there. At the river, he followed it south to the bluff. A theory that had been teasing at his consciousness began to take form. Somewhere along here, cattle were being loaded and taken away. The water in the river always dwindled to a mere trickle in the winter time, and that would be frozen over. A truck could be backed up against the bluff for loading. Then, if the truck belonged to some reputable rancher, it could pass up the highway with impunity. Was Carson helping that rancher? Tim had seen him. It didn't make sense, but he had to know. As he hurried along he again opened his jacket. The air was definitely warmer. The sky was rapidly darkening with the cloud bank. It was going to snow?a quick blizzard. He could tell by the force of the wind. He was thankful now for the small flashlight he had dropped into his pocket when leaving. By its light, he found fresh droppings on the bluff and fresh tire tracks in the snow of the river-bed. He followed them down to the lane and had started back when he heard the sound of a motor. Quickly he stepped behind a tree and listened. At once headlights blazed in the lane, and a car stopped at the crossing. Then he saw flashlights and heard voices. He recognized one as belonging to Mr. Straughn. Bob slipped quietly from shadow to shadow until he was well away. The thief had blundered this time, and men were on his trail. Bob cut directly across the field toward home. The time to tell his suspicions had come. Carson might be in that truck, and the men following might be able to pick up the trail on the highway? unless the storm beat them. Flakes were already beginning to sting Bob's face.
AFTER leaving June, Bob swung "What is it?" Turner asked as the light flashed in his face. "What's up?" "Is Carson here?" "No. Why?" Turner threw the covers from him and reached for his clothes. Before Bob was through with his story he was dressed. As the boy realized his father's intention, he drew himself to his full height. "I am going after him, Father," he said, "I'm younger." "Don't bother me." Turner was pulling on his overshoes. "You are tired from..." "I'm going." They faced each other. "I drove him away, and now I am bringing him back?or staying with him." "But I could..." "If we are not here by morning, follow with a sleigh." "Dad, it would be suicide to go in the car. There is a blizzard on the way." Turner was already striding
CATHEDRAL OF PEACE
through the kitchen. Neither noticed that Carolyn had come to the partition doorway and was listening with white, set face.
TURNER had difficulty reaching the highway. The snow softened a little, but it was a sinister thaw waiting to catch unwary victims. The highway was slippery, but better. He could make faster time, but he was not deceived. He knew that the snow, now beating so relentlessly against his windshield, was an implacable enemy, and that it had a hundred-to-one chance of winning. Time was the essence of success. If he could reach the Cross Line before the storm stopped his car, he would be safe. If Gray of the Cross Line were in this, he would not take the stolen animals to town, but to his ranch, where he would hold them until such times that they could be butchered and sold at the mining camps across the border. If he could reach Carson before the law did; if he could keep between Carson and the men that were hunting him! He had no way of knowing whether the other car was ahead of him or behind, or whether it had gone the other way. Speeding along with the rear end lurching drunkenly, Turner Evans thought bitter thoughts. Life had caught up with him at last. Carson was his. If he had done something for which the law would exact payment, they would all pay; but the fault was his. As head of the family, he should have avoided this situation. He should have been able to work out this problem. He remembered suddenly the lesson on emotions. Was it fate that had brought it to his attention? He
547
realized as never before the blind, dangerous course they had been pursuing. Emotions must have a legitimate, constructive avenue of expression; deprived of that, they were dynamite. He wondered what was back of Carolyn's right-about-face. Was she trying to get back upon their old footing? If she were, and were sincere in her efforts, then what? He faced the question honestly, and he did not know. If they could go back to where they had been fifteen years ago, what a heaven that would be! But to go back was impossible. Could they capture enough of the old spirit to make a future together worthwhile?to satisfy this terrible hunger that gnawed so persistently? Again he honestly did not know. A face passed fleetingly before his mind's eye, but he brushed it aside. The storm increased. He had not passed anyone, nor had he been overtaken. The road would not be open much longer. The windshield wiper was having more and more trouble keeping the glass clear. His lights cut the swirling darkness just ahead. Out of the storm curtain a figure loomed suddenly, head bent to the wind. Turner swung desperately at the wheel. The car skidded, swayed, tottered for a breath, and then as if tired from the wild rush, collapsed on its side in a snow bank. There was a moment of oblivion, then Turner became conscious that someone was dragging frantically at him. "Are you alive? Are you hurt?" The voice brought him back quickly to the present. "Carson." "Dad! Dad! Is it you? Dad, speak to me. Are you all right?" "I?I think so. If you can lift these cushions."
548
Very quickly he was out, and they were standing before each other trying to see through the dark and storm. "Are you hurt?" the boy asked again. "No, just shaken; but you?how did you get here? Why are you walking?" For a moment there was no answer; then with a quickly drawn breath that was part sob, the boy reached out and clutched his father. "Dad, will you believe me?" "Have I ever doubted your word? I've done enough, goodness knows, but that isn't one of the things." "No, you haven't doubted, but?" then he plunged on, "I didn't know what I was getting into at first. Yesterday?that is, today, or was it yesterday??I asked one question too many and was fired." "Fired?" "Yes, and then it came over me why Bob had questioned me so closely. I was under suspicion. I had to prove who it was to clear myself. I rode to Semple's." "Semple. Jed Taylor. Have known." "Yes. He has been selling to the Cross Line all winter. Said he had bought the stuff up over the country. Then I remembered a number of things. I waited at the bluff on the river. I told him, when he came, that Gray was afraid of the storm and had sent me to help. He only half believed me, but he had to take me along." "And you went with them?" "Him. What else could I do? I had rushed into the thing without thinking it through. Now all I could do was watch for a chance. Above here, I realized I couldn't go back to the Cross Line. The truck stuck, and I got out to push. Then, I made a quick duck into the storm." "Huh! Any chance of him following you?" "No, not now. He will be too busy getting rid of evidence." After some work, they found a flashlight in the pocket of the car. A hasty but thorough examination showed the impossibility of moving the car. "We will have to walk." Without further words they turned and started back in the direction of home. "We will have to stick to the highway," the father said, "it is our only chance of being picked up." Then as they were trudging along, keeping close together, Turner stopped and spoke sharply, "What is wrong with you?" "It is my ankle. We?we had a tussle, and I guess I must have turned it." His voice faded on a note of pain. Turner shortened his long strides, and set his lips grimly. "Put your hand on my shoulder," he said. "It will help take your weight from your foot." There was a struggle ahead. The blackness and the storm closed in about them. By feeling, more than by the feeble ray of the flashlight, they kept to the highway. Turner's head didn't feel too well, but the hand on his shoulder gave him strength in spite of its heaviness. They would make it somehow. Soon, Carson was slowing perceptibly. Unless they walked fast, they could not keep warm.
At home, after seeing the car roar out of the driveway, Bob turned back to the stable. Taking the most trusty team, he harnessed the horses and hooked them to the bobsleigh. Driving into the yard, he tied them while he went in. "I have heated some bricks," his mother told him, when he came into the kitchen. She had known what he would do. "I want you to eat this warm soup while I fill the thermos bottle." "I haven't time, This is a blizzard, and it is getting worse every minute." "You must eat." There was no relenting in her voice. "You have been on the go all evening." When all was ready, she went with him to the sleigh and watched him gather the reins. "Robert." "Yes, Mother." "There will be three of you gone." "We will be back. If they reach the ranch, they will stay there." "And if..." she stopped. He finished her thoughts in his own mind, "they have been caught." Aloud he said, "Go in, Mother, before I leave." She obeyed. He turned the team into the face of the storm and tucked the blankets closely about him. Back in the warmth of the kitchen, Carolyn wondered what she would do now. She would keep a fire, yes, but what else? She went to the twins and made a pretense of covering them. She went upstairs to tuck Dennis in; as if by covering these children, she could keep the storm and cold away from the others. They were gone?her three men. She tried not to watch the clock. She knew it would be a long time, probably another day before they could return, if they ever?No! No, they would be back!
CATHEDRAL OF PEACE
"It is my fault," she mourned aloud. "There was nothing in the house to hold him." Another time: "Turner, if you will come back, I will get on my knees to you. I will ask you to forgive and forget." Morning came after an eternity of blind watching. It was a gray, anemic light struggling through a curtain of driving snow. She went upstairs to call Dennis but decided against it. The snow was beating against the windows in heavy gusts. There would be no school bus today. The stock would have to wait. She went to a west window and stood looking out. Once the curtain of storm parted, and she caught a glimpse of an unbroken expanse of snow. It would take endless hours for a team to get through. A car would have been abandoned hours ago. Several times she tried to call the Cross Line, but the line was reported down. She walked the floor trying to assure herself that all would be well. Once she stopped, and a cold sweat broke out on her face. What if Kane Holland had been less decent? What if he had encouraged her discouragement, or urged her to get a divorce? She would now be living with him. Horrible! But it could so easily have happened. That was why so many women and men were not happy after divorce. It wasn't what they wanted at all. Suddenly the silence was shattered by the ringing of the telephone. Carolyn rushed down the stairs and clutched the receiver in a shaking hand. She had to speak twice before her voice carried over the wire. It was June. "May I speak
549 to Bob?" 550 "Bob isn't here." "Oh, Mrs. Evans, did he go with the men? We have been nearly wild. Mother is sure Dad is frozen somewhere." After she had replaced the receiver, Carolyn let a ray of thankfulness warm her hopes. June had called Bob in her hour of anxiety. They were the men Bob had said were after the thief! Later, June called again. "Did Bob call you? Daddy did. They are all safe in town. They will be back as soon as the snowplow gets through." BUT Turner and Bob hadn't gone to town. They had gone north to the Cross Line. Which group was Carson with, if either? Later she tried to get June, but the line was dead. Dennis was up, and they had fought their way to the barn to feed the horses and milk cows. When that was over, another fear caught Carolyn and chilled her already cold heart.. Would any of them return? Could the team hold out? Could anyone be out in this storm and live? "Please," she prayed, "let him come home, so I can tell him I love him." "Listen!" Dennis held up a warning hand. They were standing by a window trying to look toward the barn. Instantly he reached for jacket and overshoes, but Carolyn was through the door and fighting to reach the gate. Indistinctly, through the storm, she could see the outline of the sleigh. Bob was standing by the wagon-box, and Turner was climbing stiffly to the ground. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 In that moment Carolyn lived an eternity. They were alone. "Carson!" At the cry of pain, Bob turned. "He is here, Mother. Open the We will have to carry him From the sleighbox they lifted the inert boy, and while she held the door open, they went through to lay him on the dining room couch. Dennis went out to look after the team. "What is it?" Carolyn cried as she tore at his frozen wraps. "What happened to him?" "Exhaustion. Sprained ankle, We hope it isn't frozen." Together they worked over him. Once Carolyn's hand touched Turner's. It was stiff with cold. Instantly she took it in both of hers. "Turner, you're frozen. Take those things off and get into bed at once." Just then Carson opened his eyes. He looked around vacantly until his glance found his mother's face. "Mother!" he cried, and Carolyn dropped beside him sobbing with relief and thankfulness. "Mother." His hand reached out to find hers. "Mother, I didn't..." "Sh-h. You are back, and that is all that counts." He clung to her, weakly. "I wanted to come home every day I was there, but I would not give in. I didn't want to go in the first place. That wasn't what I wanted at all." After he had eaten warm food, he fell asleep. | Carolyn shooed the twins out of the room and closed the door. It was not until then that she realized she had not done what she had promised herself she would do. She looked about. Bob and Turner were both gone. "Bobby went to help Dennis," CATHEDRAL OF PEACE Judy told her, "and Daddy is asleep." In the kitchen she found his halfcleaned plate. He had been too weary to finish. She went to his room. He lay on his bed, where he had fallen in the act of removing his shoes. Carolyn removed them without waking him. She could not move him, so she covered him with blankets. He was breathing heavily, and his windand frost-burned face was haggard with weariness. Something broke within her. Some last reserve gave way. This was the boy she had married. The boy by whose side she had worked and slept, planned and failed, wept and rejoiced. How could she have thought for one instant that life could go on without him? Dropping to her knees, she laid her cheek against his. With a deep sigh he relaxed, as if he, in his sleep, sensed the gesture. "Mother. Where are you?" Before she could rise, Bob was there, looking down at her. His face, 551 too, was burned, and his eyes were bloodshot. Softly she went out and closed the door behind her. "Where did you find them?" she asked. "They were fighting the storm, trying to walk home. Dad was half carrying Carson. I think Carson has broken a bone in his ankle." His tired eyes searched her. Finally, he said, "You do love him, don't you?" "More than life. My task now shall be to prove it." A rare smile broke the weariness of his face. He squared his shoulders. "Now I can face the universe." But when Turner awoke the next morning, Carolyn went sick with a dark wave of disappointinent. He was as far from her as ever. He was kind to her, solicitous over Carson, but that was all. A peace seemed to have settled over him, but the spark for which Carolyn watched and longed was not there. Bravely she smiled, and resolutely she raised her head. She was not defeated yet. (To be continued) ONE DAY Celia A. Van Cott One day when I was yet a lass I pinned my curls up high, And for a kiss of mad moon bliss I tripped up to the sky. I danced along the milky way, I teased the great big bear; From heaven's bar I stole a star Aud tucked it in my hair. Today I bake a caramel cake, I clean a cottage through; I dream my dreams in tiny seams And broil a steak for two, Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. Activities Incident to the Membership Die Uintah Stake (Vernal, Utah) T the beginning of the year's work in 1939-40, the Uintah Stake Board offered a prize to the ward gaining the highest percentage of new members. This was won by Jensen Ward which recorded a gain of 40 per cent during the year and received its award on "achievement day," June 25, which was also the occasion of the stake's annual Relief Society outing. This stake, of which Mae T. Johnson is Relief Society president, emphasizes attendance and activity as well as increased enrollment, evidence of which is seen in the accomplishments of three of the wards cited below. By the close of the season, the Ashley Ward in this stake. Had 100 per cent of its eligible women enrolled in Relief Society?there were 52 women in this ward and 52 enrolled in the Relief Society, and nearly all of them were active or honorary members. The accompanying picture is of the 47 women in attendance at the Ashley Ward Relief Society work-and-business meeting, June 10, 1940. Other wards in the stake have also made gains in membership, and the stake is well on its way toward the goal of one-third increase over the 1937 membership by. The end of 1941. The stake board also offered an award at the beginning of the 1939- 40 season to the ward having the largest number of officers in attendance at union meetings. Two wards, Jensen and Vernal Second, both reached the same high mark, and each received one-half dozen copies of the new Relief Society Song Book as an award. ASHLEY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, UINTAH STAKE North Sanpete Stake (Mt. Pleasant, Utah) THE picture opposite shows the membership arch of the Spring City Ward, the four executive officers, and the two membership coordinators. Coordinator Emma Jensen stands at the left of the arch, in front of LaVee Draper, secretary-treasurer, and Grace B. Allred, second counselor; at the right of the arch are coordinator Aurelia Madsen with Manett Allred, first counselor, and Bergetta Jensen, president, behind her. The arch was planned and painted by Max Blain. An unusual feature of this arch is the scrolls appearing on the Fairview each block, and bearing the names of all the members of this Relief Society from its beginning in 1868. These names were compiled by the two coordinators, and all the scrolls were prepared by James W. Blain, including the inscnibing of the 1220 names which they contain. The names of all the new members enrolied during the four-year drive, 1938-41, will be placed in the keystone at the top of the arch. The picture in the center of the page shows participants in a candlelighting ceremony held at an annualday program in March of this year by the combined Fairview wards. MEMBERSHIP ARCH Spring City Ward, North Sanpete Stake On this occasion, the young women who had joined the Relief Society during the 1939-40 season lighted their candles from the lighted candles representing experience, development, achievement, etc., held by the oldest Relief Society members of their wards CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY Conducted by Combined Wards of by. A chorus of Singing Mothers contributed to the lovely effect and significance of this ceremony. Ruby S. Jensen is president of the Relief Society of the North Sanpete Stake, in which these wards are located. Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City) THE membership arch of Liberty Stake, pictured on the next page, is rotated among the various wards in 554 recognition of accomplishment in the membership drive. According to the president, Emma G. Phillips, the ward with the highest percentage of attendance during the preceding month, plus one point for every new member enrolled during that month, receives and displays the arch for one month. The following excerpts are from a statement on the "Meaning of the Arch" written by Henry Fetzer, the designer of the arch: "In broad terms the membership drive is not merely to increase the membership but to accomplish the vast spiritual job of "building Latterday Saint women' and to serve mankind joyfully in ever widening fields. The Relief Society goes hand in hand with the Priesthood in helping in the Lord's work of saving and exalting all of mankind, Every part of the work is characterized by loftiness of purpose. Thus, the unusually tall proportion. Of the arch symbolizes the vastness of the Gospel in the way it transcends anything earthly. 'The desire is to give the impression of that which soars heavenward to eternal and infinite heights, symbolizing the power of the Gospel to lift the spirit of man to eternal and infinite joy and advancement. As the column of stone defies the force of gravity, so the vertical line, interpreted in the proportions of the arch, represents strength and victory over opposing forces which would draw us downward. The broadness of the base and steps symbolizes the never ceasing appeal to all mankind and the invitation to partake freely of the blessings and joys of the Gospel. The immense stones used in the arch symbolize the tremendousness of the righteous and loving efforts of the sisters in the Gospel. They have MEMBERSHIP ARCH Liberty Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 builded with good works and willing sacrifice, through which they have accomplished mighty things, both spiritually and materially. The first stone laid in the building of the arch is its cornerstone. This stone was laid in the accomplishments, under the inspired plan as outlined by the Prophet Joseph Smith, of the handful of women of the first Relief Society organization. In a structural arch the great keystone is the last stone set in place binding the whole together and giving it final strength and solidarity. So the whole arch, in another sense, symbolizes the organized strength of many women as a teal power for good in the world. Spirituality is represented by the pure white of the arch. As the pure white light is the medium whereby we see all color so also does spirituality open our minds and souls to see all truths in every field of God's universe and empowers us to appreciate them to the full depth that our souls NEW RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS IN PORTLAND STAKE WITH MEMBERSHIP COORDINATORS AND STAKE BOARD (Seated to right of table are: Ann P. Nibley, Relief Society president of Northwestern States Mission, and Clarice G. Sloan, Relief Society president of Portland Stake) are capable. The gold and blue of the base represent the material daily efforts in the tasks we are continually called to do during this earthly sojourn, which form the solid base and soil for the eternal growth of spirituality. Even as the steps, so puny in comparative size, nevertheless support the arch, even so our small daily efforts form the basis for vast spiritual works, the final import of which we only dimly envision now." Portland Stake (Oregon) THE Portland Stake Relief Society Board sponsored a membership party in May, honoring the fifty-four new members enrolled in the Society during the 1939-40 season from the ten wards in the stake. Perhaps the most outstanding feature of the evening's program was the candlelighting ceremony in which each new member participated. The first candle, representative of the stake, was lighted by Clarice G. Sloan, president of Portland Stake Relief Society, as she opened the ceremony with words which struck the theme of the occasion?a new day of radiance in the lives of the new members?and emphasized the symbolism of the candle-lighting. Next, a ward coordinator lighted one of the large candles, representative of a ward, as she presented the new members from her ward. Then, each of these new members lighted a smaller candle in turn, each repeating a different pledge. The ceremony was continued until the coordinator of every ward had presented her new members and each had given her pledge and lighted a candle to strengthen the radiance of the new day in their lives. A tribute to new members followed the ceremony, and each was presented with a booklet commemorating the occasion. The cover of the booklet, printed in Relief Society colors, blue and gold, bears an appropriate title, "On the Threshold of Abundant Living." Included in the contents is a copy of the article, "The Radiance of a New Day" by Joseph Quinney, Jr., which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine for
556
August, 1936, and which inspired the candlelighting ceremony. A nice feature of the booklet is the list of names of all the new members, arranged in groups according to wards; with each ward group the names of its ward Relief Society president and membership coordinator also appear in recognition of their interest and effort in the membership campaign. The accompanying picture, taken at the candle-lighting ceremony, is of new members, coordinators, and the stake board.
Nampa Stake (Nampa, Idaho)
MEMBERSHIP growth in Nampa Stake is recorded on a large "wheel," designed by the stake membership coordinator, Bardella Rasmussen. The "wheel" is a blue disc, three feet in diameter, divided into six segments by six gold-colored
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
spokes. Each segment represents one of the six wards of this stake, and is filled in with stars representing the members of the Relief Society. In each ward's section is one gold star for each member of the ward Relief Society who was enrolled prior to the beginning of the present membership drive, and a red star for each new member enrolled during the course of the drive. The wheel is prominently displayed at each union meeting, and it is at these meetings that the red stars are added. Thus, the wheel becomes an effective graphic chart which shows at a glance the relative size of each ward Relief Society, and the location and extent of the gains in membership within the various wards of the stake. Minnie L. Rose is president of this stake Relief Society.
Excerpts From Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 5, Written by the Prophet Joseph Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"BROTHER SHEARER inquired the meaning of the 'little leaven which a woman hid in three measures of meal.' I replied it alluded expressly to the last days, when there should be but little faith on the earth, and it should leaven the whole world; also there shall be safety in Zion and Jerusalem, and in the remnants whom the Lord our God shall call. The three measures refer directly to the Priesthood, truth springing up on a fixed principle to the three in the Grand Presidency, confining the oracles to a certain head on the principle of three" (p. 207).
"... Nay, the world itself presents one great theater of misery, woe and distress of nations with perplexity. All, all, speak with a voice of thunder, that man is not able to govern himself, to protect himself, to promote his own good, nor the good of the world. It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is his purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and 'nations will learn war no more'" (p. 63).
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 2
The Heavens Open?Restoration and Joseph Smith (Tuesday, November 5)
"Wherefore, I, the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Junior, and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; and also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world...." (Doctrine and Covenants, 1:17, 18)
JOSEPH SMITH AND HIS PROBLEM. In the mind of the fourteen-year-old Joseph Smith, religious rivalry had created perplexity. Being a thoughtful youth, he tried to learn the truth concerning religion, the purpose of existence and the will of God. There is a unique element in what he did. Just as great pioneers in the field of science have cast traditional explanations aside and undertaken experimental research to discover truth, he subjected his religious difficulties to objective experimentation. In the beginning he did not set out to reform an existing church nor to establish a new one. Accepting Jesus as the Christ, he sought the true interpretation of Christianity that had been taught in the Apostolic Period. There were two sources readily available from which he might have gained portions of the knowledge he desired. He was already familiar with the Bible, but it gave merely a sketchy form of the original Christian church. A second source from which the desired information might be secured was through direct revelation from God. Frankly confessing his inability to learn from the Bible what he desired to know, and being trusting enough to follow literally a biblical injunction, he chose the second of these courses: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him" (James 1:5).
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE FIRST VISION. There is no evidence to indicate that when Joseph Smith entered the wood that bright spring morning he had any preconceived notions concerning the nature of the Godhead or religion other than the contemporary Protestant views. But when he emerged some time later, these mistaken teachings had been blasted away and replaced by definite facts. His faith and openmindedness had resulted in a revelation that taught three distinct truths lost to the world: First, God the Father and Jesus Christ had been
558
revealed as possessing materiality, individuality and personality; second, tangible evidence had proved conclusively that revelation had not necessarily ended and could be had when conditions were favorable for its reception; third, no existing earthly church was in possession of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and simplicity.
RESTORATION, NOT REFORMATION. Although youthful, untrained as a professional religious leader or scholar, and sensing his own inadequacies, he did not turn to the writings of the famous philosophers, theologians, and reformers for guidance. His first vision had taught him that the Restoration must come through revelation, not through reformation. His contributions to the theological and religious heritage of the world have never been fully appreciated, and the world is only gradually commencing to comprehend the magnificence of his teachings. Only a few of his outstanding contributions can be discussed in the current lesson.
THE PRIMITIVE AND LATTER-DAY CHURCHES. Throughout the work of Joseph Smith it is evident that he was striving to reestablish on earth the Primitive Christian Church organization and its doctrinal teachings and practices. To effect this, the various Priesthood offices, quorums and councils in the Church were successively organized. Through the Priesthood, available to every worthy male when old enough to assume Church responsibilities, Joseph Smith restored the concept of a church managed by its membership, rather than a class of professional priests.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
UNIVERSAL SALVATION AND ETERNAL PROGRESSION. One of the earliest glimpses of the breadth of the Prophet's vision of the eternities is found in his teachings concerning the universal salvation given all of God's mortal creations. However, for exaltation in the hereafter, obedience to certain eternal principles or ordinances is required. Through baptism, endowments, and sealings for the dead this blessing is not denied even to the dead who were unable to obey these requirements in mortality. Not only is there scriptural evidence for such practice, but the early church "Fathers" acknowledged its existence, although Tertullian (between 207 and 220 A. D.) was forced to admit that the church no longer understood it. In Joseph Smith's concept of eternal life there was no such thing as static or purposeless existence. Even God is made subject to this principle. The Prophet said: "God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens!... He was once a man like us; yea,... The Father of us all, dwelt on an earth, the same as Jesus Christ himself did." (Teachings of Joseph Smith, pp. 345-346.) How closely this resembles the doctrine still prevalent in the second century church, as stated by Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons, when he taught that "God became what we are, that we might become what He is." (S. J. Case, Highways of Christian Doctrine). And again, "We have not been made gods in the beginning, but at first merely men, then at length gods." (Against Heresies, Book IV, 38:4 and Book III 6:1)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
FIRST PRINCIPLES AND ORDINANCES. Into a world teaching the doctrines of predestination, infant damnation, and the total depravity of man, Joseph Smith brought the knowledge of a just and merciful God, who asked man to believe, repent and then manifest the sincerity of his faith and changed life by entering the water of baptism and receiving the Holy Ghost as a confirmation of this regeneration. Here again historical documents vindicate the accuracy of these teachings, indicating that infant baptism was never practiced by the Primitive Church. The interpretation of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper made by Joseph Smith was revolutionary to an apostate Christian world that had attached so much mysticism to this simple rite. Yet, how similar to the second century practice as recorded by Justin in First Apology, Chap. 65: "There is then brought to the president of the brethren bread and a cup of wine mixed with water; and he taking them, gives praise and glory to the Father of the universe, through the name of the Son... And when he has concluded... All the people present express their assent by saying 'Amen'. (Then)... Those who are called by us deacons give to each of those present to partake of the bread and the wine mixed with water, over which the blessing was pronounced..." Here is freedom from supernatural interpretations. It is purely a simple, memorial meal, depending upon the spiritual condition of the partaker for its efficacy, rather than a divine element in the substances.
CONTRIBUTIONS OF JOSEPH SMITH TO CHRISTIAN THOUGHT AND LIVING. The
559
Latter-day Prophet did more than any religious leader since the days of Jesus to stress the dignity and worth of the human soul. He did much for the emancipation of women. The organization of the Relief Society indicated that he realized women should fill a definite place in society, through welfare work. Within the Church, she was to share the blessings of the Priesthood with her husband and encourage him to righteous living. In marriage, she was to be an equal as well as an eternal companion. He showed the world that a prophet was not a pious, archaic fanatic, but a normal man, blessed with vision, who interpreted the will of God to his generation. His contribution to sacred scripture?the Book of Mormon, Book of Moses, Book of Abraham and Doctrine and Covenants?nearly equal in volume, and far surpass in worth for present-day living, the products of all biblical prophets combined. His religious philosophy of life is one of the profoundest concepts of life.
JOSEPH SMITH AFTER A CENTURY. From the vantage point gained by the Church and society after more than a century of the Restored Gospel, we can make some valid evaluations of the Prophet of this Dispensation. The fact that he passed through the highly emotional strain of religious revivals as he did indicates stability of character and remarkable maturity of judgment for a youth. His later life manifested these same rugged characteristics of independence. We see this manifested still further in his work of restoring the Gospel. Certain of the divinity of his calling and promise, he blazed new trails in theology and religion. Although ac-
560
cused by his opponents of blasphemy and un-Christian-like teachings, the discovery during the past century of Christian documents describing the Primitive Church indicate that his teachings accorded with the apostolic doctrines. Time, the great justifier, has validated the truths he taught, and the Restored Church rolls forth to fill the earth with knowledge and power.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What sources are available for a study of the Primitive Christian Church?
2. What truths did Joseph Smith know when he emerged from the Sacred Grove that he did not know when he entered?
3. What is the importance of the translation and publication of the "Fathers" of the first and second centuries of the Christian Church for a study of the Restoration?
4. Why did Joseph Smith succeed in restoring the Gospel, whereas other great minds before his day had never done more than attempt a reformation of an apostate church?
5. Why do you suppose the Lord has commanded the Church in this dispensation that all things should be done by "common consent"?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Make a report on the parallels between second-century writers on Christianity and Joseph Smith's teachings, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
presented by Professor James L. Barker in the Improvement Era, March, 1938, pp. 144, 145, and 185. 2. Summarize the philosophy of Joseph Smith as presented by B. H. Roberts in Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 2, pp. 381-412. 3. What interpretation do you place on the statements in Amos 8:11, 12 and Revelation 14:6, 7? 4. Read the summarization of Joseph Smith's character on pages 360, 361 of Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church.
References
Wm. E. Berrett, The Restored Church, pp. 18-27 and 274-280. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 2, pp. 362-412. Geo. Q. Cannon, Life of Joseph Smith. Deseret News, Church Sections, radio addresses by Wm. E. Berrett, Lowell L. Bennion and T. Edgar Lyon on "Contributions of Joseph Smith," commencing in issue of June 24, 1939, and continuing through to December 30, 1939. "Joseph Smith?the Prophet," by Preston Nibley, commencing in the issue of May 20, 1939, and continuing to the issue of October 7, 1939. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18, 20 and 27. J. H. Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 7-37 and 249-312. J. H. Evans, Joseph Smith?an American Prophet, pp. 225-316 and 415-433. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 40-49; 91-94; 180-192; and 315-319.
"I KNOW what I say, I understand my mission and business. God Almighty is my shield, and what can man do if God is my friend? I shall not be sacrificed until my time comes; then I shall be offered freely." [1843]
"PAUL saw the third heavens, and I more. Peter penned the most sublime language of any of the Apostles." (Excerpts from Documentary History of the Church, Prophet Joseph Smith.)
Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 2
Divisions of Priesthood?The Aaronic Priesthood (Tuesday, November 5)
"Teach them (your children) to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church." (Gospel Doctrine)
THE Aaronic Priesthood is so called because "it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations." (Doc. And Cov. 107:13) In this day, it was brought to the earth by John the Baptist, who ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the Aaronic Priesthood, May 15, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. "The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments." (Doc. And Cov. 107:20)
The offices of the Aaronic Priesthood are deacon, teacher and priest. A boy may be ordained to this Priesthood at the age of twelve. He receives first the office of deacon. When he is fifteen, if he has proved faithful to his duties, he usually is advanced to the office of teacher; at seventeen, he may become a priest. A deacon acts as a help to the bishop of his ward in many ways; such as, collecting fast offerings, cleaning meeting houses, acting as ushers at meetings and passing the Sacrament. A teacher may perform the duties of a deacon and also visit the homes of the Church members once a month to take a message from the bishop, to inquire as to conditions of people, and also to teach the Gospel. A priest may teach, preach, baptize and administer the Sacrament. He may ordain others to the Aaronic Priesthood. (See Doc. And Cov. 20:46-59)
Home Discussion Helps
To hold the Priesthood is a strength to a boy or young man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords through its activities and quorums opportunity for training in leadership, for intellectual and spiritual development.
"MORMONISM is strong because God is its author?the engineer directing its course?and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny. It is the everlasting Gospel, the saving, glorifying power of God, the power by which He carries on His mighty and marvelous work, bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."?Orson F. Whitney.
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 2
Health for Your Eyes (Tuesday, November 12)
NUTRITIONAL CARE OF THE EYES
Good general nutrition is reflected in the eyes. Eye health is now known to be affected specifically by vitamins A, B, and C.
VITAMIN A AND EYE HEALTH
Vitamin A prevents and cures Xerophthalmia, which is the Greek name for dry eye. Deficiency of this vitamin affects the epithelial tissues of the eyes and tear-secreting glands. Total blindness results if vitamin A deficiency continues too long. Nutritional night blindness, which is the inability to see in dim light, is another result of a diet low in vitamin A. Night blindness comes on so gradually that vision may be impaired without the person realizing it. People concerned with nutrition research feel that the prevalent low vitamin A diets may be the cause of many automobile accidents which occur after dark or in the dim twilight. Lack of vitamin A affects the rods of the retina, thus narrowing the range of vision. Car drivers so afflicted fail to see cross traffic when approaching intersections. They may not see pedestrians at the side of the road. Their side vision is not sufficient to prevent them from cutting in to cars running by their side. Vitamin A regenerates the visual purple in the retina of the eye and sharpens one's sense of color discrimination. Fish liver oils, liver, fish roe, egg yolk, butter and cheese are our best animal sources of vitamin A. The best vegetable sources are the green, leafy and the yellow-colored ones, such as spinach, kale, escarole, chard, beet greens, carrots. Tomatoes, apricots, prunes, and yellow peaches are also very good sources.
VITAMIN B FOR EYE HEALTH
Keratitis is a blinding eye disease which affects the cornea. Lack of riboflavin, a member of the vitamin B complex, is now seen to be the cause of keratitis. Clinical tests using this vitamin with patients whose vision was badly impaired resulted in a restoration of normal vision. Best food sources of riboflavin are liver, milk, eggs, and the dark green, leafy vegetables.
VITAMIN C FOR EYE HEALTH
Diabetic patients frequently have impaired vision due to bleeding from the tiny veins and arteries in the retina. Vitamin C strengthens the fragile walls of these blood vessels and keeps this bleeding tendency under control. In the clinical tests, the use of the vitamin B complex along with vitamin C showed marked improvement in this eye condition. Brewers yeast and liver were used as the sources of the B complex.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Rich sources of vitamin C are tomatoes, citrus fruits, sweet peppers, cabbage and other raw, leafy vegetables.
MEDICAL CARE OF THE EYES
Vision defects which are not nutritional usually come from changes in the shape of the eyeball or from disturbances in the muscles which control the eyes. Such defects should be corrected according to recommendations from a physician who is trained in the care of the eyes. Faulty vision affects one's physical well-being. Eye strain is a common cause of poor posture. Poor digestion is another result of eye strain. Vision defects often retard the child's progress in school. Following are recipes for some of these foods which are important to good health:
LIVER BAKED IN SOUR CREAM
1? pounds liver ? pound salt pork 3 tablespoons lemon juice 1 cup sour cream 1 teaspoon salt Tomato juice or French dressing.
Use a covered baking dish. Cut salt pork in small strips. Cut liver in one-half inch slices. Put pieces of salt pork between slices of liver and sprinkle each layer with lemon or tomato juice or French dressing. Let stand one-half hour. Pour over it the sour cream. If beef or pork liver is used, let the liver stand 2 or 3 hours or over night after it has been mixed with the sour cream. This helps cut some of the strong flavor of the liver and makes it more tender. Bake in a moderate oven (300 degrees F.) until tender?about 1? hours for veal and 2 hours for beef or pork liver.
CARROTS IN PARSLEY BUTTER
4 cups carrots 1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter
563
2 tablespoons lemon juice 4 tablespoons finely chopped parsley
Wash and scrape the carrots and cut them in slices or dice them. Cook in a small quantity of boiling, salted water 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender. Drain, add the butter, lemon juice, and parsley, and serve at once. Serves 8.
SPINACH SOUFFLE
1 cup strained spinach 1 tablespoon minced onion 1 cup medium white sauce 2 eggs Salt and paprika
Add the spinach, the onion, and the seasoning to the white sauce, then add the beaten egg yolks. Beat the whites of the eggs until they are stiff. Fold them lightly into the first mixture, and turn this into a buttered baking dish. Set the dish in a pan of hot water and bake the souffle for 30 minutes in a moderate oven (300 to 350 degrees F.) Serve at once from the dish in which it is baked. Serves 4.
CABBAGE SALAD WITH WHIPPED CREAM DRESSING
3 cups shredded green cabbage ? pint cream ? tablespoons lemon juice 1? teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon scraped onion 3 tablespoons ground horseradish
Put the shredded cabbage in a cool place to become crisp. Whip the cream, add the seasonings, and combine with the cabbage just before serving. If allowed to stand after mixing, the juices are drawn from the cabbage and the dressing becomes too thin. Serve the salad very cold. Serves 6.
References
Human Nutrition?Year Book, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture. Foods Rich in Vitamins, Esther Peterson Daniel, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Home Economics. Foundations of Nutrition, Mary Swartz Rose. Consult any good physiology text on structure of the eyes.
Literature
THE MODERN NOVEL
Lesson 2
Adam Bede (Tuesday, November 19)
Lesson Topics
1. Brief review
2. The setting
3. The characters
Review
The last lesson gave briefly the story or plot of Adam Bede?the love of Adam for Hetty Sorrel, her love for Arthur Donnithorne, their sin and its resulting effects upon Hetty, leading her to the greater crime of infant-murder, Adam's desperate effort to save her from execution, Arthur's remorse and intervention, her deportation and death in a foreign land, Arthur's sacrifice to atone for his weakness, and Adam's ultimate happiness in marriage to Dinah Morris. The theme, or central idea, that every act is followed by inevitable consequences which often affect many lives was pointed out. We see how the sin of Hetty and Arthur brings tragedy to themselves and to others, even to Adam who is wholly blameless, as are so many in actual life who suffer because of the weaknesses or sins of others. In lesson two, other phases of the novel will be considered, particularly the setting and the characters.
Setting
One of the three essentials of the novel besides the plot, is the setting, or the time and place of the action of the story. It is from this phase of the novel that we receive much of the intellectual value previously mentioned. Many facts about the country, the manners and customs of the times, events in history, prevailing views and attitudes are almost unconsciously acquired through a careful study of the background. Adam Bede is a story of Warwickshire, England, in the nineteenth century. We first see Adam and his brother Seth at work in a carpenter shop. This shop is described accurately, as are the various parts of Hall Farm, the different units of the ancestral home of the Donnithornes, the rectory, and the humble home of the schoolmaster. So we become acquainted with many types of homes and the kinds of life lived in them. We are shown the church, the inn, the prison. We see the highways, meadows, and other phases of natural scenery. George Eliot suggests in the first sentence what she is going to do for us in the matter of setting. She says: "With a single drop of ink for a mirror the Egyptian sorcerer undertakes to reveal to any chance comer far-reaching visions of the past. That is what I undertake to do for you, reader. With this drop of ink on the end of my pen, I will show you the roomy workshop of Jonathan Burge, carpenter and builder, in the village of Hayslope, as it appeared on the eighteenth of June, in the year of our Lord 1799." Then she draws a picture of the room with five men at work, with Adam's dog asleep on a heap of shavings. She gives us the smell of the pine wood they are working on,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
of the elderberry blossoms beside the window; she gives the glint of the sunbeams shining through the transparent shavings that fly before the planes of the workmen. We are shown the Burge's home across the way with its "smooth gray thatch and buff walls looking pleasant and mellow in the evening light. The leaded windows were bright and speckless and the doorstone was as clean as a white boulder at ebb-tide." We are introduced to the characters as they go about their habitual work, and we see them as a part of the background which helps to make them what they are. We first meet Mrs. Burge standing out vividly on her doorstone, dressed in her dark-striped linen gown, red kerchief, and a linen cap, talking to her speckled fowls. We see the Poyser dairy: "Such coolness, such purity, such fresh fragrance of new-pressed cheese, of firm butter, of wooden vessels perpetually bathed in pure water, such soft colouring of red earthenware and creamy surfaces, brown wood and polished tin, grey limestone and rich orange-red rust on the iron weights and hooks and hinges...." She shows us Bartle Massey's home, where, despite the fact that "no woman but his dog Vixen" was allowed to enter, his table was "as clean as if Vixen had been an excellent housewife in a checkered apron; clean also was the quarry floor and the old carved oaken press." In contrast to this small abode is the rector's home with its "large and lofty dining room with an ample mullioned oriel window at one end, new walls not yet painted, but with old furniture, a threadbare, crimson cloth over the large dining table upon which stands a massive silver waiter with a coat-of-arms conspicuous on its center, a room which makes you suspect the inhabitants inherited more of blood than wealth." Through such background details we understand the type of life the
565
characters lived, for the author fuses the setting with characterization and plot. She describes the church as she presents the activities centering there; such as, regular services or a funeral. She shows us an open-air Methodist service at which the lovable preacher, Dinah Morris, presides. Aside from the interest she creates in the characters of Dinah and her varied listeners, and their responses to her sermon, she gives us many significant facts about the Methodist Church. Woven with the picture of the festival at Squire Donnithorne's estate, there are many interesting details about various social classes in England?their customs and traditions, significant events of national importance that are before the public; such as, war with France, the activities of Napoleon, the reactions of the people to their times. It is evident, then, that much knowledge may be gained from the setting. Our intellectual horizons are pleasurably widened at the same time that we are enjoying the story. Knowledge gained in this way has, perhaps, even more truth than that acquired in the formal processes of learning; for as someone has said, "History tells us what men have done. Literature in addition tells us how they felt about it, which is of even greater significance."
Characters
There are also ethical values to be gained from a study of the novel. These values are closely tied up with the characters, their ideals, their attitudes, their philosophies of life as they face the realities of their world. We may know characters in a book better than it is possible to know
566
people in real life. The author reveals to us their motives, factors of heredity, the influence of environment which help to make them what they are and which cause them to respond to life as they do. We may apply such knowledge of human behavior learned from novels to real characters about us, and so come to know them better. Of the characters in this novel the central one is Adam Bede, a man whose ideals and integrity we admire and long to make our own. He believes that: "There's the speerit o' God in all things and all times, week day as well as Sunday, and in the great works and inventions; and God helps us with our head pieces and our hands as well as with our souls, and if a man does bits o' jobs out o' working hours?builds a' oven for's wife to save her from going to the bake house, or scratches at his bit o' garden and makes two potatoes grow instead o' one, he's doing more good and he's just as near God as if he was running after some preacher and a praying and a groaning." He also says, however, that "if a man gets religion he'll do his work none the worse for it." Adam has a passion for work and a great pride in doing his best, no matter what the task. When quitting time comes, the other men in the carpenter shop drop whatever they are doing and prepare to leave. One man throws down his hammer as he is in the act of lifting it; another leaves a screw half driven in. "Adam alone had gone on with his work as if nothing had happened. He said to the others in a tone of indignation, 'Look there now! I can't abide to see men throw away their tools in that way the minute the clock begins to strike, as if they took no pleasure in their work and was afraid of doing a stroke too much.' " He has a keen sense of duty toward his parents, although he has no patience with his drinking father.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
Once he felt as if he could endure the burden of providing for the family and the disgust of seeing his father come home drunk no longer, and he ran away. "But he thought of his mother and Seth left behind to endure everything without him, and he came back the next day. Realizing the misery and torture his mother had suffered in his absence, he resolved that that could never happen again. He said, 'If you've got a man's heart and soul you can't be easy making your own bed and leaving the rest to lie on the stones.' " He is very independent and is not cowed by those above him in social rank. Though he and Arthur Donnithorne, despite their difference in social status, had been friends for years, and though Arthur had just given him a position which would insure his economic independence and a chance to do the kind of work he liked, when he discovered that Arthur was trifling with Hetty's affections he fearlessly confronted him: "I don't know what you mean by flirting, but if you mean behaving to a woman as if you loved her and not loving her at all the while, I say that's not the action of an honest man, and what isn't honest comes to harm.... It'll not be soon forgot as you've come between her and me; you've robbed me of my happiness while I thought you was my best friend and a noble-minded man I was proud to work for. And you've been kissing her and meaning nothing, have you? And I never kissed her in my life?but I'd ha' worked hard for years for the right to kiss her. And you make light of it.... I throw back your favors, for you're not the man I took you for.... You don't want to fight me because you think I'm a common man as you can injure without answering for it.... I tell you you're a double faced man. I won't go away without fighting you.... You're a coward and a scoundrel, and I despise you." Yet, after the duel, Adam cares for
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Arthur as he would have done for a brother. His love for Hetty is pathetic. Terrible as her sin is, he stands by her to the end. He says to Dinah after the trial?Hetty's trial for murder when they think she is to be hanged: "If only I could have done anything to save her?if my bearing anything would ha' done any good!" And when he goes to the prison to tell her good-by, and she asks his forgiveness for the wrong she has done him, he says with a half sob, "Yes, I forgive thee Hetty. I forgave thee long ago." The above quotations indicate but a few points in Adam's admirable character. The book is filled with them. He is not perfect, but he is splendidly human. It would be interesting, if space permitted, to discuss and illustrate traits of the other characters. Each
567
one is worthy of special consideration; his philosophy, his visions and struggles give a sense of the fundamental nobility in human nature. In such points lie the ethical values in the study of the novel.
Teaching Helps
1. By which method, direct or indirect, does George Eliot chiefly present her characters? Illustrate.
2. What are Seth's outstanding characteristics? Give some quotations to uphold your views.
3. How may Mrs. Bede's character help mothers to avoid faults in regard to their children and their own happiness?
4. Analyze Hetty's character and discuss the part environment and heredity may have had in making her what she is.
5. Quote some of Mrs. Poyser's trenchant and amusing sayings.
6. The chief problem of the novelist is to create an illusion of reality. Mention some of the means by which George Eliot achieves this illusion.
Social Service
EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Long-Time Vision of Family Life (Tuesday, November 26)
WHEN war and rumors of war become prevalent throughout the nations of the world, as is the condition today, hazardous changes come along with such rapidity that habits, mores, and institutions are subjected to a stress and strain that rush them from their moorings and often leave them so modified that millions of men and women must change the routine of their lives and adjust to new conditions of living. When a nation is faced with the necessity of turning its attention and efforts toward preparedness and defence along military lines, there is a danger that it may, temporarily at least, lose sight of the fundamental importance of its social institutions; this is particularly true with respect to the family. Many of the changes that are forced upon us prove to be advantageous for our growth and progress;
568
but, on the other hand, great gains that have been made during past generations are completely lost, or receive a setback that may require generations to overcome. Many of the mores are replaced by hedonistic life adjustments on a short-term basis. This is particularly obvious among the mores that have to do with the family. The preservation of values, to serve as the social heritage of future generations, can be greatly aided by developing power of vision on the part of individuals and groups, and through the practice of long-time planning for the life of the individual as well as for the life of the group. During the last half century our attitude toward life has been consistently turning more and more toward the extrovertive philosophy. We have been more concerned with getting things done than with the consequences of what we do. We have been interested in what the family, the church, or other institutions, what life itself has to offer as a reward for today, rather than in the rewards of tomorrow; and the reward that makes the strongest appeal is the one which comes in the nature of immediate pleasures. This attitude toward life in general has penetrated our attitudes toward family life to the extent that it is not uncommon today to find persons who lend a listening ear to that small group who predict no future for the institution of the family. Any nation that is sincerely concerned with the building up of national defense mechanisms and agencies can well afford to turn attention to its family life, both for the present and for the future. Does the future of the family, as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940
our primary social institution, warrant the necessary time and effort required to train and educate for vision and long-time planning? We quote Groves: "If the question, 'What is to be the future of the family?' means whether it is to continue, the answer must be that it is as secure as the human race itself.... So long as the generations of mankind come and go, there must be the perpetuation, in some form, of family activities and values, since there is nothing to indicate that the evolutionary process can go into reverse and gradually wipe out the extension of the infancy period which gave man his opportunity and his culture.... The destiny of the family and of the human race are inseparably tied together so far as the future is concerned." * For members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the future of the family means more than it can possibly mean to any other group of people. To those who are united in the holy bonds of matrimony in our temples, it means family life throughout all eternity. With such a belief, the pertinent question before us is not, "Shall we consider the long-time plan?" but rather, "How shall we go forward in our program of long-time planning for the family?" The source of our greatest hope lies in our ability to offer to every young man and young woman an opportunity for education and training for marriage and parenthood, and also to provide for those who are married every possible means of assistance in solving their problems as they arise and in helping them to plan for the future, that the eventide of life may offer the choicest and richest of satisfactions. Too few parents are conscious of the fact that the ideal or the picture of family life that their children bring to their own marriage represents a mosaic made from the daily experiences and ideals that are part of the everyday life in the parental home. Minor incidents, about which the parents give no thought, often form important parts in the mosaic of the family life of their offspring. The degree of happiness that one enjoys during the latter years of life does not come accidentally, nor is it a gift of the fates or just good luck, as many say. Rather, it is the result of living a life well planned; of accepting, as they come, the disappointments and tears, the labors and sacrifices, the laughter and joys, the loves and companionships, giving to each its proper weight and consideration. There is no place for the fair-weather type of person or the blue-Monday type in family life. Family living offers little to the person who lives for immediate rewards in the form of fun and good times, because many are the days that are too crowded with family duties and responsibilities to permit the use of time for amusements. Many immediate joys come as a by-product of homely, routine living; but at the same time, deferred payments in happiness are being stored for future years. A REMARK frequently heard in a certain neighborhood is, "Did you ever know a couple who are more fortunate than Mr. and Mrs. R? Even though they are in their sixties, they enjoy life more than any-
*Ernest R. Groves, The Family and Its Social Functions, pages 597-98.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
one in the neighborhood, young or old." A little investigation reveals the fact that the R's are enjoying rich dividends from the investment of living a well-planned life. The R's are living in their own home, the same one in which their five children were born. Their family consists of three daughters and two sons, all of whom are married, and all except one daughter live within a radius of one hundred miles from the parental home. The outstanding characteristics of this family can be felt as well as seen when they are together. Comradeship and cooperation, harmony and consideration for each other are the most impressive traits of the group. Probably, we should add to the above list the fact that all are specimens of unusual physical well-being. When Mr. and Mrs. R were asked what particular family practices and customs they thought had contributed most to their success as a family, they agreed that having had specific goals since they were first married, and definitely worked-out plans by which they hoped to reach these goals, had been their most beneficial practice. The goals were: (1) to have a family of strong, healthy children; (2) to own their home; (3) to be able to provide opportunity for the education of their children; (4) to have their children active members of the church; (5) to have their children honorable members of the community; (6) to have their children as happily married as they themselves. The eldest son, who was present at the interview, said that another factor that had contributed to the success of their family life, and which had impressed each of
569 the children, 570 was the fact that the mother and father had always put the welfare of the family first; nothing ever seemed as important as the family group. Mr. R said that almost as soon as each child was born the family "blueprints" were placed before him, so that by the time he reached his teens he was fairly well inculcated with the desires and expectations of the family; and each one was expected to contribute to the success of the aims. Mts. R said, "Let me assure you that it has not all been as easy and smooth running as it appears at this stage of our lives. We have had our troubles, disappointments, and _sortows, but we have always tried to meet them together and accept whatever was inevitable without complaining. Every once in a while when the children were small, and it seemed as if Mark (her husband) and I were not getting nearly as much fun out of life as our friends were, we would ask ourselves if we were not too concerned about the future, at the expense of the present. However, at the end of such a discussion, we always agreed that we were on the right road to happiness. And now when we look back on the journey, we wonder how we ever could have felt that we were missing anything of importance." She continued, "Naturally, young children keep their parents away from many clubs, parties, shows, and entertainments of one kind and another, but I think they also keep a lot of married folk out of the divorce courts, and out of other troubles, too! Another thing we have always tried to do is to keep check on our desires and not allow them to get out of bounds, and so in the long run we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 have enjoyed a greater degree of contentment." Undoubtedly, the last statement suggests something of significance in the marital accord of Mr. And Mrs. R. It is difficult to enumerate incidents which contribute to marital happiness because of the subjective nature of happiness. In answer to the question, "What is marital satisfaction?" Nimkoff says: "Clearly it is an individual matter. Some persons are disheartened by the slightest degree of domestic conflict; others would be miserable without it." There is a story by O. Henry, in illustration, of the wife who always required her husband to give her a severe drubbing as evidence of his interest in her. When he was kind to her, she became uneasy, thinking he must be centering his affection on another woman. It is clear that some husbands and wives stay together, satisfied, under circumstances that would drive others apart. Why should this be so? "The degree of one's satisfaction with one's marriage depends on the relation between two things: (1) what one expects, and (2) what one receives.... Satisfaction with marriage may be increased by expecting less, or achieving more. The situation may be represented by the formula: Achievement Expectation "If 'expectations' are given free rein and allowed to run_ wild, 'achievement' cannot hope to keep pace. Happiness in marriage, therefore, requires the imposition of a self-discipline which keeps desires and their possible realization in proper balance." "M. F. Nimkoff, The Family, pages 381- 82. Happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT This working principle is worthy to be incorporated in every family plan. FAMILY of healthy children came first in the R family picture. Need we say more than to call attention to the fact that the functions of parenthood provide the central core about which the institution of the family has developed. To justify the remark of Mrs. R in reference to children and divorce, we refer to the report of the Bureau of the Census, Marriage and Divorce, 1932, Table 8, which shows that about three-fifths of all divorces granted that year were granted to childless couples, and one-fifth involved families of one child only; 1.6 per cent had four children, and 0.1 per cent were couples with eight children. We must not conclude that the number of children was the only factor in determining divorces, but we may assume that it was an important factor. For a family to own its own home is undoubtedly an asset. We shall consider this matter in a subsequent lesson. The question of religion has likewise been discussed in the preceding lesson. At this time, we merely refer to the findings of Burgess and Cottrell' in their study of 526 families, which were as follows: Both brides and grooms who reported no church connections rated lower than the average in good marriage adjustment. Of more significance than church membership in determining religious interest, was attendance at church services and Sunday School. In this regard, it was found that attendance at Sunday School was correlated "Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Chapter VIII. 571 with marital success. Mates who never attended Sunday School, or who discontinued going after ten years of age, showed a decidedly lower proportion of highly successful marriages as far as adjustment was the criteria; while those who continued to attend Sunday School until they were nineteen to twenty-five years old, or older, showed a higher proportion of successful marriages, with few failures. From this particular study, we find that religious activity and interest, as demonstrated by attendance at church, is positively correlated with probabilities of marital success. Mr. And Mrs. R have been active members in the church all their lives, as were their parents before them. With a justified pride, Mr. R said, "Well, one thing Sarah (his wife) and I can truthfully say is that our method of instilling religion into our children has been by example, and we are pretty well satisfied with the results." It would, indeed, be of great value if a well-trained person could make a detailed study of the R family for the purpose of discovering what influences and practices have been responsible for their success. Mrs. R says that from childhood she was taught to consider the probable effect of today's actions on tomorrow's living, and she was impressed with the high degree of pride that her mother showed in her work as a homemaker. These two points stand out as important influences in her childhood. Mr. R says that he remembers an outstanding characteristic of father to be the fact that he was always working according to a definite plan and for a specific purpose. Asa child, his father was forever 572 asking him two questions; namely, "What are you doing it for?" and "How are you going to do it?" We believe the above factors in the childhood training of Mr. And Mrs. R 'have contributed much in determining their subsequent plan of family life. S a nation, as a state, as a community, as a ward, we must look to the future values of family life. We must lay the foundation of family living according to the fundamentals of religious and moral training, and specific education for marriage and parenthood. Groves says, ""There is much more hope of society's insisting upon better preparation for parenthood. The insight that has been gathered by psychoanalysis, psychological and sociological investigation, and by psychiatric experience gives force to the growing conviction that both the mother and the father need to have, not only for their own good and that of the child but for the welfare of society, an understanding of their responsibilities that can never come without specific preparation. At present, otherwise highly trained individuals can easily be found who as fathers and mothers are not only basically ignorant of their task but mentally closed to any approach of science. The penalties of their unfitness for their responsibilities appear clearly but not, as a rule, until their children have gone so far away from the formative period that little can be done to reconstruct their personalities. The home cannot be left isolated as science goes forward in its understanding of human life. It seems fair to say that nowhere as yet is there such wastage of opportunity RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 as is found in the home of parents who either neglect or are unprepared to meet the character-needs of their children. "A well-secured civilization shows its strength through the quality of family life that it has brought forth and protects. At no time in human history were there more resources than at present for the building of wholesome family life or for making it the means of advancing human welfare. The proper functioning of the home, however, demands that parental intelligence improve, since chiefly from the home must come the discipline and motivation necessary for a wide use of the resources provided by our rapid material progress. From no quarter will our political and social leadership get larger returns than from investment of thought and endeavor in matters that concern the family. The social functions that belong to the family give it the key position in the program of social adaptation which decides the survival of each civilization just as the physical and psychic adjustment determines the life career of each individual." To carefully plan for the utilization of all available resources for the enhancement of family living is not only the mark of a wise and educated couple, but it is also an investment that will return the highest dividends in family happiness. The earlier the "newly-weds" work out their "blueprints" for family living, the greater will be their value, provided the plans are not allowed to lose plasticity and thereby become static. Growth and development call for intelligent modification of plans. 'Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, page 594. LESSON DEPARTMENT Problems and Questions 1. What is your interpretation of the findings of the Burgess and Cottrell study referred to in the lesson? In general, what are the characteristics of young people who prefer religious rather than civil marriages? 2. In the light of your own experience in a plan for successful family living, what factors would you add to those suggested by Mr. And Mrs. R? Which would you eliminate from their list? 3. If you have a long-time plan for your family, what methods are you using to make your children conscious of the plan? Give examples to show to what extent the children are cooperating for the successsful working out of the plan. 573 4. Mrs. R says that since the first marriage in their family it has been customary for as many members of the family as possible to come for family dinner one Sunday each month. As many as can, arrive Saturday evening. It is seldom that fewer than four of the five families are present for these dinners. Make a list of possible objections to this practice and a list of advantages. Suggest ways and means of overcoming the objectional factors. References E. R. Groves, The Family and Its Social Functions, Chapter XXI. Burgess and Cottrell, Predicting Success or Failure in Marriage, Chapter VIII. ??Mission Lessons LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XI Happenings in Nauvoo (Tuesday, November 19) IN ancient Arabia there was a sacred bird called phenix. Its plumage was red and golden, and it tesembled an American eagle. Every five hundred years, so the story goes, this bird left its native country, flew to Heliopolis, in Egypt, burned itself on the altar, and then rose from its ashes younger and more beautiful than ever. The phenix has become a symbol of. The resurrection. The Latter-day Saints of this petiod were like that. You remember what happened to them in Missouri. Some of them were killed, others severely wounded, most of them were robbed of their property, and all of them were driven from the state. And then, to make matters worse, their leader, after being sentenced to be shot, was kept in prison for five and one-half months. Everybody, except the Saints themselves, thought that was the end of Mormonism. You have seen, also, how the Prophet won his freedom, how he chose Commerce for the new home and changed its name, how he healed the sick on the river banks by the power of God, and how houses went up, a temple was planned, and a government was established. But there was something back of this planning and building. What was it? It was the spirit of a people, the faith and hope of men and women?a spirit, a faith, a hope that could not be defeated by any adversity. Nauvoo, on its spiritual side, 574 shows how the Saints, like the phenix, rose from the ashes stronger and more lusty than ever. THAT strikes us most in this Nauvoo period of between five and six years is not the city nor the government nor the Legion nor the university nor the tremendous activity there, but rather the way in which the Church developed and spread. This is shown in two respects: First, the missionary work was pushed with new vigor. You may recall that the English mission grew out of the mission to Canada. That was in the Kirtland days. Now, after the expulsion from Missouri, it was decided to push the work in Great Britain. Seven of the Apostles were sent over the Atlantic, to join Willard Richards, who had been left there to preside over the Saints. At the same time, Elder Orson Hyde was sent to Palestine to dedicate the land for the gathering of the Jews. It happened, then, that eight of the Apostles were in England at one time, and one in Palestine. At this time in England there were thirty-four branches of the Church, with a total membership of sixteen hundred and eighty-six. Then the eight Apostles went to work there. They met with great success. 'This was especially true in the part of England where Elder Wilford Woodruff labored. In a few weeks he baptized eighteen hundred persons, which more than doubled the Church membership there. Scores of these were preachers. In other parts of the country the Apostles met with encouragement. Before they returned home, they had increased the membership of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 Church there to four thousand. Also, they had established a periodical, the Millennial Star, and published a large edition of the Book of Mormon. Meantime, Orson Hyde had gone to Palestine alone. In October, 1841, he ascended the Mount of Olives and dedicated the land for the gathering of the Jews. Here, and later on Mount Moriah, he erected a pile of stones as a witness to what he had done. About this time, it is interesting to note, the spirit of gathering came upon that people; and now there are more than three hundred thousand Jews in Palestine. The land is under the protectorate of England. BUT at home, in Nauvoo, a great deal was going on, too. The Prophet made known some important truths to the Saints. Much of this centered in the idea of home? home here and hereafter. You may know that Christians generally believe that baptism is essential to salvation, just as Jesus said it is. But there have been millions of men and women who, while they lived on earth, did-not hear of the Gospel. What was to become: of them? If they could be saved without baptism, then baptism was not necessary for salvation; and, on the other hand, if it was necessary, then they would not be saved, no matter how much they deserved to be. Here was a strange dilemma. Our Prophet, however, showed Christians the way out. Man consists of a spirit and a body. The body is the house in which the spirit lives. The spirit existed before it entered the body, it exists in the body, and it will continue to exist LESSON DEPARTMENT after it lays down the body in death. It is the spirit, not the body, that thinks and acts and loves. It can do these things without the body. Hence, when a person dies, his spirit goes into the spirit world, where it goes on thinking and acting and feeling, just as it did in the flesh. The Prophet said the Gospel is preached in this world of the spirit, just as it is in this world of the flesh. And the spirit is able there to receive or to reject the Gospel, as it is here. But there are certain ordinances, like baptism, that have to be performed in the body, since they cannot be performed in the spirit world. When, therefore, one of the spirits is converted to the Gospel there, someone must be baptized for him here. This was not a new teaching. It was known to the ancient Saints and practiced by them. Paul says, "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Corinthians 15:2 This work of baptism for the dead was done at first in the Mississippi River, after the doctrine was revealed to the Prophet. Later, when the temple there was finished, it was performed in that house. This is partly why the Latter-day Saints build so many temples. Doing work for the dead, however, was not the only doctrine taught by the Prophet at this time. You have probably observed that it is our human relationships that give us the most happiness here. Always we find people to love?parents, wives and husbands, and then children?and always our circle of friendships widen. Love is the great- 575 est thing in the world. What would we do without our loved ones and our friends? But these relationships are just as necessary to our happiness in the next world as they are here. That is what Joseph Smith taught. He could not derive any comfort from the notion so commonly accepted as true in other churches, that we shall not know one another in Heaven, nor care to know any one. On the contrary, he knew that our joys here come from our knowing and loving other people. It was during this period, then, that the Lord revealed the idea of celestial marriage. Celestial marriage is marriage for eternity as well as for time. You may know that in other churches a man and a woman are married till death parts them. That means that they will not be husband and wife in the hereafter. It is as if a ceremony were instituted by which a couple were married for, say, ten years; after the ten years were ended, they would not be married any more. That is the way it is in other churches?they marry only for time. The reason, of course, is that the ministers do not have the authority to perform marriage ceremonies for more than this life. Joseph Smith had that authority. It was given to him by the ancient Apostles, Peter and James and John, who had received it from Christ himself. And so, when he performed a marriage ceremony for eternity as well as for time, the man and the woman were married for the next world as well as for this world. But that was not all. The children born of this marriage would be their children in Heaven as well as on the earth. In this way the race would be 576 united there. And thus, people would find happiness in Heaven, instead of the misery of being alone. This is what came of having divine Priesthood. The Lord not only gave the Prophet certain knowledge about the next life, but he gave him also the necessary authority to perform the ordinances of salvation for that life. You may remember reading that Jesus said to Peter, "I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt. Bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (Matt. 16:19.) These keys Peter gave to Joseph Smith. That is why the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, alone, has the right to perform ordinances for time and eternity. Questions 1. What was the condition of the Saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST, 1940 when they entered Illinois? What might be expected to happen to them? 2. What did happen to them? How do you account for this? What had Joseph Smith to do with all this? 3. Tell about the mission to England: first, the one in which the Gospel was introduced there, and then the mission during this Nauvoo period. 4. What has brought you the greatest happiness in this world? To what extent have other people contributed to your happiness? How can this happiness be continued in the next world? 5. What must you do to be happy in the next world? Why do the Saints build temples? Name them. 6. Explain why there should be baptism for the dead. In connection with this lesson, read: Section 128, of the Doctrine and Covenants, baptism for the dead; Section 131, on celestial marriage; Section 133, on gathering; Section 135, on the martyrdom. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. HER SHINING HOUSE By Olive C. Wehr I'm sure that I have never seen As hers. Each surface polished so Gives back to it some borrowed glow Until the radiant whole but seems New fashioned of a housewife's dreams? An order only such as she Could maintain in reality. Such bold perfection greets me there To enter in I hardly dare For fear of erring in her eyes That, tired but anxious, guard her prize. She keeps a shining house?but oh, The home her loved ones long to know! A house kept fresh and spotless clean a "How Firm a Foundation' The unimpaired Gospel of Jesus Christ is. In Latter-day Saint belief, the deepest and strongest foundation for a happy life... For the security and progress of the individual, for the harmony and progress of the world.. _. Christ's message is the base upon which the Church is building and operating Brigham Young University. It is the rock upon which character and scholarship may be erected with safety. A, The latest building to be added to the B. Y. U. Campus is the splendid religious and social center now being completed under the Church Welfare Plan. Significant also is the expansion this year of the former Religious Education Delav into a Division of Religion with the four departments of Bible and Modem tipture, Church History, Church Organization and Administration, and Theology and Religious Philosophy.  Since the aim at B. Y. U. Is to enable well-rounded preparation for a useful life. Courses are given leading to success in scores of occupations. In the five colleges, there are thirty-seven departments offering more than 1600 courses. The University is specifically organized to train young men and women for lay leadership; to give them. That is, occupational efficiency as well as the power and the desire to serve spiritually. AUTUMN QUARTER Registration?September 20, 21, and 23 Nationally Accredited?No Out-of-State Fees For catalog, address The President BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH LIFE'S TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender love LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Was. 5132?Hy. 180 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society M. 