ADAM BEDE By George Eliot
A choice is offered of this book in two buy. We recommend (b) edition.
(a) Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers,
Special Relief Society Price
(b) The Best Known Novels of George Eliot, Modern Library, Inc., which includes four novels
Regular Price $1.25
Salt Lake City
THE TREE OF LIBERTY By Elizabeth Page
The Book Store is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price
By Bess Streeter Aldrich
Regular Price $2.50
Special Relief Society Price $2.00
CHRISTMAS CARDS. See our beautiful assortment.
466 24th Street, Ogden
Foresight
Those rugged pioneers of the West, whose memory we delight to honor, left the impress of their solid virtues upon us of the present in many ways. It is not at all strange that in spite of violently changing conditions, the habit of preparing for the future, which those pioneers practiced, should find expression in our day in the storage of grain and other food against the day of possible need. Indeed, there seems to be something eternally right and sound in the habits of life and the methods of our pioneers.
This organization, throughout its years of service which the pioneer founders of this business practiced. While technical methods and equipment have vastly improved, the principle of giving the buyer the best printing at the lowest possible price is as rigidly followed today as it was ninety years ago.
Printing Order
NEW PRESS
of catering to the users of good print-
THE DESERET
29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
CONFERENCE ISSUE
Our Cover
The MAYFLOWER, its 102 pilgrim passengers, their ideals and purposes come forcibly to our minds at this season of the year. This year we may more fully appreciate the determination that directed this small boat against a comparatively unknown ocean, and the band of men and women who sacrificed the personal comfort and safety possible in the old world for the privileges of freedom in an unknown, savageinhabited land, where they must needs start with their hands, a few tools, and faith in God—to build AMERICA.
She finest works of man is building the Character of Man
LARKIN MORTUARY
LARKIN & SONS
260 East South Temple
Salt Lake City
466 24th Street, Ogden
Phone 4-9126
Telephone 821
LARKIN MORTUARY CO.
6003 Compton Avenue
Los Angeles, California
Jefferson 1244
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Index to Advertisers
Beneficial Life Ins. Co. Outside Back Cover
Deseret Book Co. Inside Back Cover
Fisher Baking Co. 725
Larkin Mortuary Inside Front Cover
L. D. S. Business College 725
Telex 725
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND to NONE in
Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service
It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education
Ask for our "Bulletin of Information"
L. D. S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
UNLESS YOU ARE TOTALLY DEAF
CLEARER HEARING
Perhaps you are only slightly hard of hearing? or deafness may be a serious handicap in your business and social life... possibly you have felt that hearing aids are too conspicuous... or you may be wearing one regularly...
In any case, you'll like the New Telex with the really clear and life-like hearing it produces... instantly.
Voices and sounds which have been indistinct or blurred... Telex brings them to you with all their richness and quality. There's no objectionable distortion and you'll wonder how it can produce ALL sounds... Low tones... High tones... With such amazing clarity and naturalness.
Telex does it with vacuum tube amplification and the crystal microphone.
Smooth... is the word you'll use... for music, too... Music with a new meaning for you. And it won't be necessary for you to learn to hear... Telex performs as you've always hoped a hearing aid would perform... Without tiring you. Even whispers are audible... And it is helpful on the telephone. Nervous strain to hear?... Just try this new Telex for greater comfort and hearing ease.
There are many other things you'll like about the new Telex... The compact battery arrangement... Selective amplification for your particular needs... Unit construction... 25 per cent more battery life... Guaranteed... And, here's good news... Only a few dollars more than ordinary hearing aids.
Write for a folder on Telex High Fidelity hearing... Or better... Visit the new consultation offices for a complete analysis of your hearing problem. Courteous, efficient consultants are also available for home demonstrations if you prefer.
The New Telex can mean a new life for you... defeating deafness.
SALT LAKE CO.
511 McIntyre Bldg. Phone 5-4036
A PRODUCT OF THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
Be sure to TRY FISHER'S BETTER MAYFLOWER DOUGHNUTS
You'll thrill to the taste of Fisher's DUTCH BREAD
You'll like its golden-hued crust and uniform texture so ideal for toast. And... Love its delicious flavor!
1844 So. State Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII NOVEMBER, 1940 No. 11
Contents
Special Features
Message from President Heber J. Grant 725
Frontispiece President Heber J. Grant 726
Tribute to President Heber J. Grant Elder Bryant S. Hinckley 727
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
General Statement Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 729
OFFICERS' MEETING (October 2, 1940)
Greetings General President Amy Brown Lyman 732
The Spirit Giveth Life Counselor Donna D. Sorensen 734
Departments:
VISITING TEACHER
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home Leah D. Widtsoe 737
THEOLOGY
The Nature of a Testimony T. Edgar Lyon 741
LITERATURE
Discrimination in Reading Irene Tolton Hammond 744
Literature and Living Elsie C. Carroll 745
SOCIAL SERVICE
The Economy of Family-Life Study Caroline M. Hendricks 748
Teaching by Discussing Dr. Billie Hollingshead 751
OFFICERS' MEETING (October 3, 1940)
President's Report and Official Instructions General President Amy Brown Lyman 753
Self-Realization Through Creative Work Counselor Marcia K. Howells 761
Looking Forward to '42 Edith S. Elliott 764
Ward President's Responsibility to the Visiting Teacher Alice B. Castleton 765
Public Welfare Provisions Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 767
GENERAL SESSION (October 3, 1940)
Our Greatest Need Marianne C. Sharp 775
General Features
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 778
Editorial:
Our Privilege and Blessing 779
Excerpts from Wilford Woodruff Selected By Marianne C. Sharp 780
My Daily Prayer Luacine Savage Clark 777
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—Faith—A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff 781
Visiting Teacher—The Physical Preparation of the Home 784
Work and Business—Dietary Reinforcements 785
Literature—The Tree of Liberty 787
Social Service—Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day 791
Mission—The Twelve Apostles Lead the Church 796
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY,
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 38-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.


Message From President Heber J. Grant I REJOICE in the wonderful growth of the great Relief Society organization and in the fact that today it has a membership of 86,000 women. It fell to my lot to address Eliza R. Snow, the president of the Relief Society following Emma Smith, as 'Aunt Eliza'; also to address her successor as "Aunt Zina." More than anyone else, except my own mother, Eliza R. Snow told me of the character, the teachings, and the wonderful life of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She told me many important things that I prize very highly indeed regarding the marvelous accomplishments of the Prophet. My mother was the president of the Relief Society in the Thirteenth Ward for thirty years, resigning only on account of the loss of her hearing. One of her counselors was Bathsheba W. Smith, the successor to 'Aunt Zina' as president of the Relief Societies of the Church. The secretary of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society at the time my mother was president was Aunt Emmeline B. Wells, who succeeded Bathsheba W. Smith as general president of the organization. So I had personal, intimate association, from my childhood until their death, with these women, and they were among the finest women I have ever known in my life. Mother being a widow, and I her only child, with no one for her to leave me with, I accompanied her to Relief Society from the time I was a little child playing on the floor until I was a young man too big to go. I know of the accomplishments and the wonderful devotion of the officers. Every president of the General Board of the Relief Society has been a devout, intelligent, fine, loyal Latter-day Saint; and I have known most of the members of the Board, and they are among the choicest of our people. I regret that I am not able to be with you this afternoon, but I hope that I can attend the general conference. I extend to each and all of the workers and the members of the Relief Society my most earnest and sincere prayers for a continuation of that spirit of love and charity and determination to serve the Lord that has ever been manifested by the officers of the General Board of the Relief Society. I pray most earnestly for the blessings of the Lord to attend them in their very splendid work, and I ask the blessings of the Lord at all times upon them. This I do in the name of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ, Amen. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII NOVEMBER, 1940 No. 11 Tribute To President Heber J. Grant Elder Bryant S. Hinckley PRESIDENT Heber J. Grant comes to his eighty-fourth anniversary [November 22, 1940] enjoying the universal confidence and affection of a great people. The present state of his health is a shining testimony of his faith and of the goodness and mercy of our Heavenly Father. Few men indeed have achieved so nobly in so many fields of human endeavor. He is well endowed. He has a vigorous and resourceful mind —always able to think faster and clearer than most men. His intrinsic honesty and his transparent frankness win the confidence of all who meet him. His justice, his mercy, his forgiveness, his generosity, are all princely. His friendship is intimate, sparkling, and constant. He has a native dignity that attracts attention in any group, and this is enhanced by a keen sense of humor. He enjoys a good story and always has one to tell. No other man in this generation has possessed in so high a degree the capacity for making friends and creating good-will for his people. I am well within the mark when I say that the greatest personal tribute ever paid to any living citizen of Utah was paid to President Grant on his eighty-second birthday by five hundred of the leading men of the state and many from beyond its borders. The great majority of these men were not members of the Church. That tribute was a spontaneous expression of their personal esteem for the President. We know of no man who has more faithfully devoted himself to the advancement of human betterment through the restored plan of salvation than has he. The Lord has sustained him in his calling. The Church has prospered greatly under his leadership. The President is a great leader, because he always leads by example. He preaches the Word of Wisdom, but he lives it first; he practises the law of tithing, and then preaches it. His life affords many rare examples of continuity of effort. His personal achievements as a result of persistent effort should be recorded in school books so that generations to come might be inspired by them. You cannot defeat him. Calamities have engulfed him, disaster has swept over him, but he has never remained submerged; he has risen victoriously above every assault. Rising above all of his noble endowments, permeating all of his high endeavors, is the conviction that work, relentless work, coupled with faith in Jesus Christ, can accomplish wonders. While the dominant concern of his life is the 728 Church and Kingdom of God, to which he has dedicated his time and his energy, he has in addition to all of this rendered notable public service. He is a man of deep spirituality, at the same time eminently practical. President Grant knows the meaning of poverty and struggle; he also knows the keen joy that comes to those who win through hard and honest endeavor. He is a man of simple habits, approachable and democratic in his ways. It requires an intimate touch to appreciate the promptings of his great heart. His sympathy for the poor reveals the nobility of his soul. Here are two simple incidents told by his daughter, Mrs. Lucy Grant Cannon, president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of the Church: "An artist came to sell Father a picture. He did not have a space on his walls to hang a picture, but the artist needed money. So Father told him he had always been sorry he had let him sell his last picture to him so cheap. He gave him an extra $50 for the previous picture, and suggested that the artist might sell the picture he had to someone else." How like him! Another incident: "A sister who was helping in the President's home had been assessed $50 on a new ward chapel. She made no complaint about it, but this word reached the President, who was then in England. Soon a letter came to this sister with a check enclosed. She was to use the $25 to help pay her assessment. The letter was written in the President's own handwriting. She felt that she wanted to return the check; however, she did not return it, but gave RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 it to the ward in addition, making her donation $75 instead of $50." Sister Cannon relates that years later when she visited this sister, who was then nearly ninety years old and almost blind, she went to her drawer and brought the letter for Sister Cannon to read. She had cherished that letter all those years. Cases of this kind are a part of his daily life. His heart is full of human sympathy, and that sympathy must always find expression in deeds of kindness. The record of his deeds of helpfulness and encouragement would reveal a soul known only to those intimately acquainted with him. No wonder he has a hold on the affections of the people! He loves people, and his love expresses itself in deeds. The depth and tenderness of his great heart is best recorded in his love for his family and his mother. His affection for his mother was beautiful—a bright example of filial devotion. His mother, Rachel Ivins Grant, was for more than thirty years president of the Relief Society of the ward in which she lived. She was worthy of the love which he so generously bestowed upon her. Nor is his devotion to his family less tender or less beautiful than that shown to her. Standing upon the threshold of a new anniversary, the President looks across four score and four years of great living, of full living, of abundant living; years marked with reverses and victories, years filled with trials and triumphs. He comes to this milestone mellowed and sweetened with the ripening years, a shining example of a great leader in a great cause. Relief Society Conference October, 1940 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer THE educational work of the Relief Society was featured at the semi-annual general conference which convened in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1940. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, member of the general presidency in charge of educational work for the Society, was chairman of the October conference committee, and was assisted by nine other members of the General Board. Schedule of Meetings The conference consisted of four sessions—two officers' meetings on Wednesday for the consideration of the work of the educational departments, a forenoon officers' meeting on Thursday for the consideration of general matters, and a general session on Thursday afternoon. The three officers' meetings were held in the Assembly Hall, and the general session in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. President Amy Brown Lyman presided at each of the four sessions of the conference. The proceedings of the two officers' meetings on Wednesday which were devoted to educational work were under the immediate direction of Counselor Sorensen, and each of the educational departments was conducted, successively, by the chairman of the committee responsible for each course of study. Following is a schedule of the meetings which comprised the conference: OFFICERS' MEETINGS—Wednesday, October 2, 1940, 9:00 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. (For stake and mission officers and board members) Departments: Visiting Teachers, 10:00 a. m.—10:55 a. m.—Achsa E. Paxman, chairman. Theology, 11:00 a. m.—12:00 noon— Vivian R. McConkie, chairman. Literature, 1:30 p. m.—2:25 p. m.—Anna B. Hart, chairman. Social Service, 2:30 p. m.—3:30 p. m.— Anna S. Barlow, chairman. OFFICERS' MEETING—Thursday, October, 3, 1940, 10:00 a. m.—12:00 noon. (For stake and mission officers and board members) GENERAL SESSION, Thursday, October 3, 1940, 2:00 p. m.—4:00 p. m. (For all officers and members and the public) Messages from General Authorities A highlight of the conference was the message sent by President Heber J. Grant which was read by President Amy Brown Lyman at the close of the general session in the Tabernacle, and which appears on page 725 of this issue of the Magazine. This message from our beloved leader, who during his lifetime has known personally seven general presidents of the Relief Society—all except Emma Smith, the first president—and whose mother served as a ward Relief Society president for thirty years, came as a blessing and a benediction to the thousands of Relief Society members and workers who were privileged to hear it, and will be extended to thousands of others in all parts of the Church through the medium of the Magazine. The Tabernacle audience was honored with the presence of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., throughout the entire general session. The inspiring address, "Our Homes," which he delivered on this occasion, will appear in full in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Presented to our readers in full in a later issue will be the address of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, entitled "What a Prophet Means to Latter-day Saints," delivered in the Theology Department of the first meeting of the conference. Representation and Attendance Members of the General Board, stationed at each of the three entrances to the Assembly Hall, greeted stake and mission officers and board members as they arrived for the three officers' meetings. The Relief Society women who remained in constant attendance at the doors throughout these same three sessions, and who also assisted with the registration of attendance and the distribution of printed programs, were members of the Wells Stake Relief Society Board. All members of the General Board were present at the conference except Rae B. Barker who was representing the Board at a series of Relief Society annual stake conferences in the East. The two newest members of the Board—Pauline T. Pingree and Alice B. Castleton—appointed since the April conference —both addressed the conference, as did those new Board members appointed at the beginning of the year, who did not appear as speakers at the April conference. The official representation of stakes was unusually extensive for an October conference. Of the 132 stakes, 123 sent delegates—all but Alberta and Lethbridge in Canada, Inglewood in California, Kanab in Southern Utah, New York and Washington in the East, St. Johns and St. Joseph in Arizona, and Oahu in Hawaii. In addition to stake representation, the president of the nearby California mission attended, and there were unofficial delegates, such as branch or district officers, from nine of the missions in the United States. Registered attendance at the officers' meetings held on Wednesday and devoted to the Society's lesson work numbered 700; at the officers' meeting, Thursday forenoon, the attendance was recorded to be nearly 900. Attendance at the general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, which was open to all officers and members and the public, was approximately 6,000, with nearly every seat taken. It is significant to note that of the 500 official stake delegates in attendance at the officers' meetings, more than 350, or 70 per cent, were stake class leaders; whereas, 150, or 30 per cent, were executive or special officers. This distribution of representation was very gratifying in view of the fact that the October conference is devoted largely to the educational work of the Society. Several of the mission Relief Society presidents who had been released and returned home since the April conference were present, in- 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE cluding Mary T. Clayson of the Southern States Mission, Ann P. Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission, and Priscilla L. Evans of the Eastern States Mission, who offered the benediction at the close of the first, third and fourth sessions of the conference, respectively. Nellie C. DeGraff, president of the Wasatch Stake Relief Society, closed the second session of the conference with prayer. General officers of other auxiliaries and wives of the General Authorities of the Church also attended sessions of the Relief Society conference, including Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion, Mrs. LeGrand Richards, Mrs. Charles A. Callis, and Mrs. Reed Smoot, who, respectively, offered the invocation at the four sessions. The conference was especially honored by the attendance of the wives of the First Presidency, Mrs. Heber J. Grant, Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Mrs. David O. McKay. Music at the Conference Lily Priestley rendered appropriate organ music during the half-hour preceding both the Wednesday and Thursday morning meetings in the Assembly Hall, and accompanied the congregational singing, which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist, played the organ prelude for the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall, and accompanied the two numbers, "Grant us Peace, O Lord," by Stephens, and "The Marvelous Work" from "The Creation" by Haydn, sung beautifully by the Temple Square Mission Choir under the 731 direction of H. Frederick Davis. Also appearing at the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall were Margaret Stewart Hewlett and her children. For their first number, Mrs. Hewlett was accompanist for her three daughters, Marlene, Marilyn and Margaret Ann, who rendered "In a Garden" by Miles as a vocal trio. Their second trio was "Liebestraum" by Liszt, with Mrs. Hewlett and her son Charles each playing the violin, and Margaret Ann, the piano. "Prayer" by Geon, was sung beautifully by Ruth Jensen Clawson, Ensign Stake Relief Society Chorister, at the Thursday morning officers' meeting, and her voice was heard again in solo with the chorus of Singing Mothers at the general session in the Tabernacle. The combined choruses of Singing Mothers, numbering approximately 300 singers, who appeared at this session were from Wells, Bonneville, Emigration-Ensign, Highland, and Cottonwood stakes, and were directed successively in five numbers by their respective stake directors, Josephine Brower, Olive N. Rich, Meryl T. Cardall, Permilla Bean, and Nellie N. Bennion. They were accompanied on the organ by Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist, and on the piano by their stake organists, Wilma Bunker, Rachel Dunn, Ruth Isakson, Ruth Stromness, and Iola Peterson. In response to a special invitation, these combined choruses of Singing Mothers also appeared at the first two sessions of the general conference of the Church, held in the Tabernacle on Thursday, October 4. Summarized Report of Proceedings FOLLOWING are condensed accounts of the talks presented by the speakers at the various sessions of the conference, arranged in the order of their appearance. Because of limited space, the entire report of the proceedings cannot appear in the November issue, but those addresses directly related to the educational work of the Society are included in this issue. Addresses of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, and General Board members Luella N. Adams, Anna B. Hart, Ethel B. Andrew, and Pauline T. Pingree will appear in later numbers of the Magazine. The programmed talk, "Accelerating Membership Activities," by Belle S. Spafford, was not given at the conference because of lack of time, but this subject will be further developed and presented at the general Relief Society conference in April, 1941; therefore, a summary of this talk will not appear in the proceedings of the October conference. Arrangements have been made whereby the full text of the address on "Teaching Methods" by Doctor A. C. Lambert, delivered in the opening session of the conference, may be obtained in mimeographed form upon request direct to Doctor A. C. Lambert, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. It is therefore unnecessary to print a condensed version of this address in the Magazine. At the close of the Literature Department meeting of the conference, a list of books and plays studied in Relief Society literature lessons during the period 1914-1941, and of authors considered during this period, was distributed to each stake literature class leader. Those stakes and missions who were not represented at the conference, and any other stakes who failed to obtain a copy, may obtain the list upon request to the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Officers Meeting (Wednesday, October 2, 1940) GREETINGS President Amy Brown Lyman IT is with real pleasure that the General Board welcomes you here today—you dear sisters, officers, and class leaders who are largely responsible for the success of the Relief Society work throughout the Church. It gives us joy to see you again after six months, to mingle with you, and to feel the warmth of your spirits. We hope that your attendance at the conference will be profitable to you, and that you will feel compensated for the effort you have put forth to come. We want you to know that we appreciate you, that we pray constantly for you and for the work. In our prayer meeting held just prior to 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this meeting, we prayed that that which would be received at this conference might be beneficial to all of us in furthering our ever-higher standard of work throughout the stakes, and we prayed also for your homes and their safety during your absence. I am sure our hearts are heavy today, as they have been for many months, when we realize what many of our dear sisters and their loved ones, and other innocent victims, are suffering in those unfortunate countries which are involved in war. In Europe, we have 5,000 Relief Society members who are in the thick of the disaster. In South Africa, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, combined, are nearly 3,000 Relief Society members who, in this dark hour, are living in constant suspense, dread, and fear for what the next day or even the next hour may bring. Let us keep them all in mind. Let us pray daily for them and for their loved ones—their husbands, fathers, and sons, and for their little children who are innocent victims of this terrible world conflict. Through letters to us and through reports to Elder Thomas E. McKay, president of the European Mission, now residing in Salt Lake City, we learn of the courage and bravery of our members in spite of trying conditions. The Relief Society work is being carried on in all of the European missions. Meetings are held in which regular work is taken up and in which members console and comfort one another; all of which is very helpful to their morale. They are also carrying forward welfare work, doing what they can to help those in need and distress. In addition to this, Relief 733 Society women are helping to conduct regular Church work in the absence of members of the Priesthood who are in government service. AS we are all aware, our October conference is devoted largely to our educational program. The General Board aims to prepare a course of study that is both profitable and interesting. We are very proud of the record you have made and are making in presenting the lessons. We have attained a high degree of efficiency in our teaching, which is most gratifying. I believe that our teaching and learning are changing and improving our daily lives, which is the great goal of education. I believe that after each yearly course of study we are different, that we have received development. I am sure our class leaders have gained results of which they are not aware: that they have helped to establish in class members higher ideals; that they have inspired new and broader interests; that they have helped to improve attitudes and even habits. In other words, they are teaching us how to live better lives, which is a great achievement for our educational program. There is surely no higher, nobler, more far-reaching calling than that of the teacher. There are two suggestions I would like to make to you with respect to class work: First, that it be permeated with the true spirit and philosophy of the Gospel. I believe that in all of our classes, no matter what the subject, there is opportunity to inculcate faith, reverence, testimony. Brother Karl G. Maeser used to tell us that when he was sent to Provo to open up the first Church school, 734 the Brigham Young Academy, President Young instructed him that the spirit of the Lord should accompany every recitation. "Do not attempt to teach even the multiplication table without the spirit of the Lord," he directed. The whole object of the Church school system is to make intelligent, faithful, true Latter-day Saints, and that is our object also. Many people in the world today are realizing, as never before, that prayer, faith in God, spirituality, morality, and all the old virtues as taught in the Bible, such as the Ten Commandments and the teachings of the Savior, are worth more than all the modern philosophies of men; and we, as Latter-day Saints, have in addition to all of these our own Gospel teachings, including the Articles of Faith. Second, I would suggest that in our teaching we include and keep before our classes constantly the ideals of American democracy and human liberty—the ideals set forth in the THE SPIRIT RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 Mayflower Compact, the Declaration of Independence, and the Constitution of the United States—all of which are based on Christian principles. Christianity is really the first line of defense for true democracy. Our country needs our help. Proper teaching methods in Relief Society should help our members to be Latter-day Saints who are willing to live their religion, and citizens who are willing to work for the preservation of the ideals and principles which underlie our national security. Class leaders are challenged as are all other leaders. The teacher who believes what she teaches and who shows in her daily life that the things she teaches have affected her own behavior for the better, will be more successful than the one who does not. A living personality and a fine character known to all, are more effective in teaching than preparation and training, effective as these latter are. Ideals taught should be first realized in the teacher. THE SPIRIT GIVETH LIFE Counselor Donna D. Sorensen EACH of you here today has chosen to make wise use of life, because you have set yourself a serious work to do and will be seeking in the months to come the end of a task well and skillfully performed. Under your direction, more than 71,000 meetings will go forward in the various Relief Societies of the Church. You are the stake officers, and the ward leadership is looking to you for direction; and the kind of attitude you have as you resume your work this fall will provide the keynote for their acceptance of their responsibility. Now, as we begin another year's work in the Relief Society, it is well to recall the objective of this organization in all its work. This has been restated recently for us by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said, "The sole, ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the Christ and of the Gospel, of the divinity of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the Restored Gospel and Priesthood." Much of the value of this organization to the women of the Church will come through adherence to this objective, which should motivate all our actions and teachings as officers in the Relief Society. We may fit ourselves with all the training at our command to do our task well, but if we neglect calling for aid from our Heavenly Father we will not be as successful as we might otherwise be. All women who are members of the Church have had hands laid on them for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Here is a reservoir from which we may draw and from which we may teach our ward leadership to draw in time of need. The Gospel, with the gift of the Holy Ghost, gives us a basis for decision. This gift gives us, also, a consciousness of unbounded power upon which we may rely when called upon for action and which will "bring things to our remembrance and show us things to come." We should be constantly aware that "we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth...." (I Cor. 2:12-13) THE educational program of this Society stands as a testament to the belief of the leadership of this organization in the truth that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with 735 us in the resurrection." Such a belief has not only enlarged the scope and range of the educational work offered by this Society, but it has also been a great influence in prompting women to the full discharge of their duties. Most of us are fully acquainted with the work done by missionaries in "opening up" the four corners of the earth to the Gospel message. And yet it is a little difficult to comprehend and realize the magnitude of the additional work which will be done by the ward class leaders this year in acquainting 6,000 additional women with the truths presented in the lessons of the Relief Society. Of the more than 86,000 women who will come under the direction of the ward class leaders of your stakes, many will be women whom life has touched, and ofttimes not kindly. They will be women whose hearts are sick with the bloodshed and horror in the earth. Others who will come indirectly under your direction will be young women for whom life with its responsibility is just beginning and who need the example and the steadying controls which lessons skillfully handled in a spiritual way engenders. Other women will be in attendance in ward meetings whose families are of such an age that they are demanding more and more attention—busy mothers whose lives are crowded with multitudinous duties and who find in these lessons a respite from physical activity with a chance for mental stimulation. Then there will be women there nearing the end of life's road and slowly approaching the "valley of the final shadow." These dear sisters would like to sense a feeling of being 736 wanted and needed. They are looking for comfort and recognition. Deeply implanted in each of the souls of the women is that hunger to be fed words of truth and life. A class leader's ability to satisfy that deep-seated hunger for the bread of life will determine her worth as a teacher in this Church auxiliary, where women have the right to expect a lesson which will minister spiritual comfort and faith. All that is fine and uplifting in the world we would like to embody in these lessons, but we should never forget that in this auxiliary the women should expect and should receive lessons which partake of and manifest the spirit of this great Church. AS stake and General Board leaders, we should encourage the ward class leaders to gain a knowledge of subject matter and a knowledge of the fundamental principles of teaching. Both are extremely necessary and essential factors in good teaching, but in addition to these is the spirit of the Lord which stands ready to aid us. "It is not enough that teaching be intellectual and pedagogical, but it must be impregnated with the spirit of the Lord." We need to be aware that one can make excellent preparation to the point that probably a feeling of self-sufficiency enters in without our being aware of it. When this occurs, and we stand before the women without the reliance upon the Lord which we should have, we find that the lesson fails to touch the hearts of our listeners and our words are like seeds falling on barren ground. But when we have enriched our educational background and improved our knowledge of teaching principles, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 and exercised the gift of the Holy Ghost by reliance upon the Lord in our task, then can we understand with Paul when he said, "... And when I am weak, then am I strong." (II Cor. 12:10) This year in your work as stake leaders, would you possess a powerful spiritual force driving you to the good life? Then be duly appreciative of God's blessings and His goodness to you. This is not difficult for all of us to do when we realize that our lives are cast in pleasant places. We know the trees, the flowers, the birds, the sunsets in our peaceful valleys. But in other parts of the world, thousands of people are seeking dark underground places from the death-filled skies which surround them. In the light of these blessings, should we not expect that our hearts should be turned toward Him, the giver of all good blessings, in humble thankfulness for our existence here, for the blessings of the Gospel and for the great organization of the Relief Society in which women may grow and develop. This year, let us so appreciate God's blessings and goodness that we may tender our kind offices to His children as the only return in our power for His continual favors to us. Let our contribution this year be the most perfect we have yet made. Let us mold our thinking and fashion our lives so that we become as a vessel "meet for the Master's use and prepared unto every good work." And as the year proceeds, how might we know whether we are succeeding in this task we have resolved to do? In Galatians we have a standard of measurement given us whereby we may know whether we are carrying the spirit of the Lord RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE with us in our work, for we are told, "... The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." Ask yourself constantly: "Do I have these gifts within myself to give—peace, love, shelter, encouragement, forgiveness — and am I giving them now in my own home?" If you are, you cannot fail to impart them to this organization. Ask your ward class leaders: "Is your teaching renewing the spiritual strength of the women? Is your teaching stimulating faith within you? Do you radiate sympathy and understanding? Do you encourage class members by your presentation? Does God become more real to all who hear you?" We might well take as our motto 737 this year in Relief Society work the words of Paul to the Ephesians (6:10, 13-18): "Be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness. And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked; and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God: praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit...." Visiting Teachers Department HOW WE MAY HONOR PRIESTHOOD IN THE HOME Leah D. Widtsoe THE importance of Priesthood cannot be overestimated. As the subject of this year's visiting teachers' messages to the home, it is probably the most far-reaching and enlightening of any subject that we have studied in years. Because of its importance, let us try to understand what Priesthood really is, then we can study our relationship thereto. Our first teachers' lesson outline defines Priesthood in a quotation from President Joseph F. Smith: "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 173) The important thing to note here is that where Priesthood is rightly used, all acts in the Church are performed with authority restored from our Heavenly Father; they are per- 738 formed legitimately. None of the great reformers of the past has ever made such a claim. Even Luther never professed any right except that of harmonizing church teaching with the Bible. The modern Prophet, however, claimed that this authority was given to him under the outstretched hands of resurrected beings who had received it from Christ Himself. With the Prophet Joseph were witnesses who testified to this fact until the day of their death. The spirit bears witness to me and to you that this is true. If we really desire to understand any subject, we must study it, and Priesthood is no exception. Our first source of information is the Doctrine and Covenants. Look up the subject in the Concordance and study carefully every reference. Read especially Section 107; also 121, verses 34 to the end of the Section. Study the chapters dealing with Priesthood in the Discourses of Brigham Young and Gospel Doctrine by President Joseph F. Smith. In the book which the Priesthood is using this winter, Priesthood and Church Government, the subject is treated in full. Chapter 7 deals especially with the functioning of the Priesthood in the home. Those who have kept the Relief Society Magazine will find in the issues of October and November, 1933, a discussion of this subject as it affects women, entitled "Priesthood and Womanhood." This was enlarged somewhat and reprinted in the Church Section of the Deseret News for January and February, 1934. The purpose of Priesthood should be understood. Since Priesthood is the power of God delegated to man, it must be used for the benefit of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 the entire human family, especially for those who accept and use its power. President Lorenzo Snow has said: "The Priesthood, or authority in which we stand, is the medium or channel through which our Heavenly Father has purposed to communicate light, intelligence, gifts, powers and spiritual and temporal salvation unto the present generation." To use a well-known simile, we may liken the Priesthood to electricity which brings light and power unto every home that wills to use it. It may be installed in any and every home to benefit the entire family if they will pay the price and make the proper connections. But the connections must be made correctly and by one who is authorized to do so or the house will remain in darkness. We should understand further that every office in the Church, whether in the Priesthood quorums or in the auxiliaries, is held by delegated Priesthood authority. To quote our first lesson outline: "The Priesthood is the governing authority of the Church. All offices in the Church derive their power, their virtue, their authority from the Priesthood." So each office in every auxiliary, from the least responsible to the head thereof, is held by one who has received the right to officiate therein by delegated Priesthood authority. A universal Priesthood was promised by the ancient prophets. In the Restored Church every righteous man is entitled to hold the Priesthood and administer the duties of each office in its order as he is called and ordained by those having authority. This universal Priesthood is but RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE a fulfillment of prophecy. After Moses had led the Children of Israel into the wilderness of Sinai, he told them: "Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation." (Exodus 19:5, 6) The people refused to listen to these teachings of Moses, and never since the days of the Savior until the restoration of the Gospel in our day has this been possible. All other Christian churches have but a chosen few who hold the priesthood. One need only attend a general conference of our Church to be assured that this is indeed a "kingdom of priests" so-called. We are told in Lesson 4 of our series, "The most humble man has the same power and authority of the Priesthood which he holds as the most prominent or wealthy one. His worldly possessions or position do not enter into his standing in the Priesthood, but only his faithfulness in living according to the teachings of the Gospel. All men who hold the Priesthood may act in an official capacity when called upon to do so. The Priesthood brings to the individual man a sense of his true value in the sight of God." WOMEN do not hold the Priesthood directly, but they do share with father or husband in all the blessings which result from honoring this great power. In Priesthood and Church Government, page 83, we read: "The Priesthood is for the benefit of all members of the Church. Men have no greater claim than women upon 739 the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. "Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood." Our present Church Historian, Joseph Fielding Smith, makes this clear in a quotation from The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The Prophet Joseph Smith made this relationship clear. He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and who proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in, their husbands whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers, for the keys of the Kingdom are about to be given to them, that they may be able to detect everything false; as well as to all the Elders who shall prove their integrity in due season." Woman's responsibility on earth is to the future of the race as well as to the present generation. Understanding these precious truths, no woman in the Church may say that since she cannot hold the Priesthood 740 it is no concern of hers. To use a homely illustration again, it is just as though she were to sit in a dark house refusing to turn on the electricity because she is not an official or an employee of the electric company. She would better rejoice that she can use all the benefits of electric power without carrying any of the burden of administering the electric plants. Woman's responsibility to the Priesthood is fourfold: to understand fully the meaning as well as the blessings which come from the righteous exercise of this great power; to honor Priesthood in our hearts and by our actions and to value it in our own lives if we are called upon to be an officer or teacher in any auxiliary organization; to assist our husbands (or fathers, brothers or sweethearts) to guard and honor their great privilege of possessing this delegated power; to train our sons (or other women's sons) to be prepared for the exercise of this gift when it shall be bestowed upon them. We should also train our daughters to understand these truths, so that they may choose their boy-friends wisely and encourage them to live and merit the blessings which are theirs if they but prove worthy. Therefore, no home in the Church, even that of a widow and only daughter, is so remote or so placed that the inmates can truthfully say that Priesthood does not concern them. The rewards are great when Father honors his Priesthood and meets all its requirements. With Mother's help and cooperation, a_ perfect teamwork results, which always bespeaks a life of peace and understanding. In such a home there is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 no sex rivalry, for woman's life work is of equal importance to that of husband and father, and woman may hold her place by the side of her husband — for they two are one. "This is made clear, as an example, in the Temple service of the Church. The ordinances of the Temple are distinctly of Priesthood character, yet women have access to all of them, and the highest blessings of the Temple are conferred only upon a man and his wife jointly." (Priesthood and Church Government, p. 83) The Temple ceremonies are the highest expression of the Priesthood power on earth. When we honor them, we honor the Priesthood. When the women of this Church learn to understand and to magnify their relationship to the Priesthood, greater blessings than any yet dreamed of will be their portion. I feel that the General Board was inspired when they chose this subject for the visiting teachers' messages. Every home needs the Priesthood, the key to which is found in Doctrine and Covenants, 121:34-46: "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile —reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love towards him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death." Priesthood is the power that makes the Gospel of Jesus Christ work. Theology Department THE NATURE OF A TESTIMONY Edgar Lyon Associate Director, Salt Lake Institute of Religion ONE of the objectives of the theology and testimony period of the Relief Society is to give instructions to the sisters of the Relief Society that might be helpful to them in not only formulating and strengthening their own testimonies, but likewise in carrying into their homes, and to those with whom they come in contact, the vital messages of the Gospel of Jesus Christ; that they might aid others in securing and strengthening their testimonies. I feel that Relief Society women are in the key position in the Church, in many respects, to effectively bring to the hearts of people, especially the members of their own families, the meaning of testimony and the understanding of its true nature. The home is the primary center of teaching, and the mother is in the favored position to help the members of the family through the formative years of life to keep their feet firmly planted in the faith of their fathers, and to assist them to grow in understanding and appreciation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I think the young people today should have stronger testimonies than any of the generations of the Church who have gone before them, and I believe they are just as good if not better than any generation the Church has ever produced. They are living in a different world, one in which it is more difficult to secure a testimony or to maintain one. They are surrounded by educational systems that stimulate them to question, even at times to question experiences that have been vital religious forces in their lives. So they have to struggle against greater odds as they seek to gain their testimonies, and they need help to find expres- - sion and to find themselves. Many of them, it seems to me, have a mistaken concept of a testimony. 'They have attended fast meetings and other meetings at which people have borne testimonies, and they seem to feel that a testimony is a fixed quantity or a specific amount of something, that it is something that you have or you do not have. They seem to feel that it will suddenly dawn upon one when he has it. They think that if they say they have a testimony they will not be telling the truth unless there has been something happen in their lives that has brought them to a realization of it; and they think, more often than not, that this should be something in the form of a miracle. THINK it has been a very common thing for many of our young missionaries in their farewell addresses to state that they do not have a testimony of the Gospel, but that they hope they will have one when they return. Personally, I believe that some of them are not telling the whole truth when they say they do not have a testimony. I think what they mean is that they have not yet been able to think their way through 742 experiences and teachings so that they have the assurance that this is the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I had that brought forcibly home to me through an experience that occurred during the trans-Atlantic voyage when we were on our way to the European mission field in the years shortly after the first World War. A group of missionaries from the Intermountain States were traveling to the various European missions. One of the missionaries in that party had stated that he had no testimony of the Gospel, but he hoped he would secure one in the mission field. The second night out, as a group of the missionaries were sitting in their deck chairs at the stern of the ship, a lady approached and commenced talking with them. In the two days of the voyage, she had become acquainted with most of them. She was a cultured, refined woman from Richmond, Virginia, a member of one of the Protestant denominations of that city. Her husband was the senior member of the board of wardens that employed the pastors. She was a wealthy woman, and she had lost her only son in the World War. He was buried in France, and she was going over to visit his grave. It so happened that one of the missionaries in the party had a striking resemblance to her son, and it was that which had attracted her to the group. She made a proposition to this young missionary. She said, "I have taken a great liking to you. I had all my hopes centered in my son, who is now dead. We had dreams of him becoming a minister in our church, and now he has been taken away. Our ambitions are about alike, and I do not see why you could not accept my proposition. I would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 like you to forego this venture you are going on, and I would like to send you to one of our seminaries to be trained as a minister. When you get through, I will guarantee that you will be employed in one of our finest churches. You may live at my home, and I will take care of you as though you were my own son. This missionary, who did not have a testimony, started telling the woman why he could not accept her offer. For about one and one-half hours he discussed all the doctrines and teachings of Mormonism, and gave some of the finest reasons one could think of as to why it was impossible for a Latter-day Saint to accept the proposition. As the boys were returning to their rooms that evening, one of the missionaries said to him, "I thought you did not have a testimony of the Gospel; why you have been bearing it for one and one-half hours on the deck." "Well, is that what you call a testimony!" Suddenly, there dawned upon this boy the realization that this thing he had been thinking of and milling over in his mind and observing through all his years of study in the auxiliary organizations at home was in reality the stuff of which a testimony is made. A TESTIMONY is not a static thing. It seems to be able to grow, to become stronger in assurance, more intense in conviction, and more powerful in spirit, or it may disintegrate, decline, depending upon the spirituality of the person who has the testimony. We need to bear in mind the thought that testimonies grow from experience. We find in the discourses of Brigham Young that he stated that he had RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE come to believe that practically everything that he believed had come to him as a result of experiences. He had gained his testimony because of experience with spiritual values, through study of the Scriptures, through attendance at meetings, through prayer, through his preaching, through his baptism and confirmation, and through the Priesthood he bore; it came into his life through a series of experiences that gave to. Him the conviction with which he spoke. 'The testimony he had when he joined the Church was certainly different from the one he bore when the great Tabernacle was completed years later. His testimony. Was not lost during that time, but it had grown more intense and much broader because of his experiences during the many years he was prophet and leader of the Church. I believe that our young people, in most cases, who are actively attending our Church services, our auxiliary meetings, our young men who bear the Priesthood as deacons, teachers and priests, are actually, step by step, gaining a testimony of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. What they need, largely, is something to make them realize it. It may be a more intense experience of prayer. They have had the spirit of God conferred upon them by the process of confirmation, but they need to be awakened to the realization of the 743 spiritual powers and forces that are theirs. Perhaps they need to be faced with some challenging circumstance that will make them realize that they have a testimony and help them to piece together these things. In many respects their testimony is something like a jig-saw puzzle—they have all the parts, but they need to sort them and put them together. When they have done so, they see the Restored Gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ, with its spiritual power, through the Holy Ghost. That is the experience that has come to their parents, their relatives and friends, and especially the prophets of the Church. I believe as Latter-day Saints we fail to sense the problems our young people are facing. I often think we continue to believe that they must wait until some marvelous thing happens whereby this testimony becomes a reality. We need to teach them that testimonies grow constantly, that they grow step by step; and while the testimony of an. Eighteenyear-old might not be the same as the Church authorities', nevertheless that testimony can be real as far as his experience and understanding are concerned. Our young people are heits to these blessings because of membership in the Church, and the spirit of the Holy Ghost is their heritage. "HAPPY is the man indeed who can receive this soul-satisfying testimony, and be at rest, and seek for no other road to peace than by the doctrines of Jesus Christ."—Gospel Doctrine, President Joseph F. Smith. literate: Department DISCRIMINATION IN READING Irene Tolton Hammond Emigration Stake Relief Society Literature Leader If were to ask each of you why you read, I imagine I would get about as many answers as there are types of temperament and varieties of habit, and all might be correct. One would say she reads for information, another for inspiration, another for courage, one for consolation, one for a knowledge of history, another for a knowledge of human nature, one for an escape from the monotony of our every-day living; but I imagine the great majority of us might very properly say we read for pleasure. Art of any kind is art only if it increases our awareness of life, its humor, its beauty, its seriousness, the common fate of humanity. Literature will give us this only if we enjoy it. The prime reason for the survival of literature is its power to give us relaxation and enjoyment. If that is the case, shall we read only light reading matter, such as the cheap so-called "pulp" magazines, the real romances, true confessions, and that sort of thing? This type of reading is only justified because it is easy. It offers no difficulties to our understanding; it usually ends happily, and it gives us a feeling that success is not very difficult to attain. But these are false standards for judging literature. Those of you who have been reading Adam Bede will recall the chapter in which George Eliot expresses her literary creed. She says, "Perhaps you will say, 'Improve the facts a little. The world is not what we like. Touch it up with a tasteful pencil.' But, my good friend,... That is not life. I must tell my story without making things seem better than they are; falsehood in art is so easy; truth, so difficult." You might say, then, if literature is to increase our awareness of life, and if it is to tell us the truth of life, shall we not have heavy, serious reading? My answer would be, "Definitely, no, because literature as well as life gives infinite variety to mood and form." Mark Twain could write A Connecticut Yankee and Tom Sawyer as well as Joan of Arc, and Shakespeare could write The Merry Wives of Windsor as well as King Lear; Dickens, Pickwick Papers as well as Nicholas Nickleby and A Tale of Two Cities. You might ask, "In my reading, shall I depend upon the suggestions of others who do not respond the same as I, even to the best books?" Any book will make a different appeal to us at a different time and under different circumstances; be- - cause someone recommends a book to you as being good, is no indication that it may be good for you at a particular time. If the book does not appeal to you, if it does not stir your emotions and your reactions, leave it and try something else. The test of whether any book is good for you is your emotional reaction, and that depends upon your background, your character, your mood of the moment and perhaps your literary training. There is need for variety in our RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE reading, a need for variety in books as in vitamins. We cannot all subsist on the same diet. I should say, discriminate taste in literature is a broad taste in literature, and there is a place for Wodehouse as well as Wordsworth, for Guest as well as Galsworthy, for the Saturday Evening Post as well as the Saturday Review of Literature. Teachers in the wards and stakes have a distinct opportunity. There are so many books that, obviously, none of us can read them all, and the unguided reader can wander bewildered through this maze of books. I suggest that occasionally you discuss briefly some of the great books which have not been included in our course of study. Impress upon the members that a book is not necessarily dull because it is great. Occasionally, give a list of great books. Surely, a reading of just a few of these will give us power of discrimination and a basis for appraising books now appearing that have not yet weathered the test of time. 745 Leaders must keep aware of the contemporary scene; we must occasionally suggest to our people new books that have won the praise of critics. Let our people know that fine books can be obtained in cheap editions; for example, the four novels by George Eliot can be purchased for $1.25, and there are even twenty-five cent editions of some very fine books. Leaders must have an intense love for literature, but in expressing our likes and dislikes, let us not assume a "holier than thou" attitude. Let us not make of our reading something heavy and too difficult, let us make it a delightful exploration, a glimpsing of other lands and other places, of many people, and of varied problems. Discrimination in reading is the weighing of books by their fidelity to life. Let us keep our vision high and clear, but at the same time broad and tolerant. LITERATURE AND LIVING Elsie C. Carroll Brigham Young University ALL good literature has a close bearing upon everyday living. The purpose of our literature lessons is to help the members of the organization to feel this close relationship between life and literature and to gain the most significant values offered by the study of good books. Our literature lessons this year deal with novels, and they contribute tichly to life. Let us consider the lessons and how they might be presented to do what the General Board has planned. First of all, the literature teacher must have the right attitude. She herself must be enthusiastic about literature. She must see its values to herself and to her group. She must know from definite contact with it that it is the record of the best that has been thought and said in the world, that there is running all through all the great literature of 746 the world something of the idealism in humanity which (despite periods such as the present which seem to the contrary) keeps humanity striving upward. She must recognize that the chief value we get from a study of literature is a broadening and deepening of our experiences. We are in actual life limited within narrow bounds. Few of us have many great soul-stirring, actual experiences. But it is not so with the vicarious experiences we share with the characters of literature. In this realm, we can share the life of all classes of people in all ages; and so we widen our intellectual horizons by the knowledge we gain, deepen our emotional responses by sharing the joys and sorrows of great characters, learn new ethical principles by recognizing the ideals and dreams which have guided man through the ages. Thus, through these literary experiences, our personalities are developed and our lives are enriched. The teacher will keep in mind not only this constant need in our lives for the enrichment literature can give, but also the fact that there is a special value to be gained from great books at the present time. Now, when the world is in such turmoil, literature can give us the needed relief from the tension of the day's harrowing events. Furthermore, a knowledge of literature which shows us the oneness of life gives usa larger perspective of human events. We see the present in relation to the past and the future. So when we observe that the world has come through other periods of retrogression such as the present, with humanity still retaining that upward drive, we regain a hope for a better RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 day, for the ultimate triumph of tight. Besides being enthusiastic about literature, recognizing its relation to life, and seeing the great values it can contribute, the teacher should know the members of her group. She should understand their background, how much formal education they have had, how much literature they know. Perhaps, 'they have little literary background. If so, she must help them to recognize and desire what the lessons have to offer before she presents the material itself. She will want to know their experiences. This will help her to present work which they most need. There may be, for instance, individuals in her class who have need of some special type of help that literature can give. I know a college professor who is very much concerned about his sister, who had lived an active life as homemaker, but had never cultivated the habit of reading anything but newspapers and magazines. Now her children are grown and one by one are leaving the home. She has more and more leisure time. Recently her husband died, so she must adjust to a new life without him as well as without the work she has always done for her children. Her brother said, "If only she enjoyed books, what a blessing it would be to her now!" Perhaps there are many such women, and literature teachers can open the magical door to the fascinating world of literature for them. AFTER considering herself in relation to her work, and analyzing her group, the teacher comes to the definite subject matter of the course. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE This year we have three novels, each offering many values to those who study them. First, we will want to consider the authors, for we need to know something about them to get the most from what they write. These authors become our friends. Their philosophies are significant. They are important individuals; their background, their experiences, their special gifts are worth knowing. This year we have three gifted women writers. George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans), one of the world's greatest women novelists, gives us significant phases of life in Victorian England. She was the first great psychological novelist, taking her readers into the very minds and souls of her characters, letting them see what influences make her men and women what they are, depicting the far-reaching effects of apparently insignificant causes. Through showing us what makes her created characters do what they do, she helps us to understand all humanity better—our neighbors, our families, even ourselves. Adam Bede not only presents notable and interesting characters, some of whose philosophies enrich our own, but it shows the necessity of conformity to social traditions; it also re-creates a past period—a world new to us. Therefore, we learn much about England of the past in a way history cannot give it. Elizabeth Page, the author of The Tree of Liberty, I believe, is a young woman of great promise. She has a good heritage and has enjoyed unusual educational opportunities. She was always passionately fond of history and both as an undergraduate and as a graduate student did 747 special work in this field. To her, historical characters became vivid, living men and women. When she visited historical homes and scenes, the past seemed to become mote real than the present. She saw people and events of the past in their relation to each other and their period, and also-in relation to our time. With this special gift and with writing talent, it seems inevitable that she should give us a historical novel; but that she should have produced so great a book as The Tree of Liberty with little previous writing experience is phenomenal. She spent five years working on the book, reading everything she could find—history, documents, letters, diaries, novels—having to do with the fifty-year period in American history which her novel covers. Furthermore, she visited all places of significance mentioned in the novel and interviewed hundreds of people in order to get all the facts she needed to make her story historically true. The result is that she has given us. An authentic history and a stirring novel in one book. The novel, therefore, should appeal to all classes of readers. -It is no accident that it came to us at this time, but it is significantly fortunate; for we need today just what this book gives—a realization of how our democratic way of life came to be and an appreciation of the traditions which produced it. The story, too, has great interest and validity. Bess Streeter Aldrich is an old friend to many of you. You know A Lantern in Her Hand, White Bird Flying, and others of her books. She is a woman much like most of us— coming from pioneer stock, valuing 748 family life above all other things, guided by ideals of simple, wholesome living. Her novel, Song of Years, is a story of pioneer life of Iowa during the period of the Civil War. So she, too, restores the past and adds to the historical literature of our country. Her characters are men and women in the humble walks of life, and she shows us how interesting and noble, yet warmly human, such characters can be. She records experiences, emotions and ideals that belong to all of us. So she seems very near to us, almost as if she were writing our own story. THIS, in brief, is the subject matter of the course. Now, how should we present it in order to make it interesting and significant to the class? We must challenge the attention by appealing to the interest of most of the class members. If we have a group of women with little or no. Literary background, busy, tired women who have come to Relief Society meeting to rest and to be entertained, we will likely emphasize 'the story—at least start with it or some episode in it. We will perhaps need to do most of the work ourselves. We will not be satisfied, however, until we feel that we are giving the class members some of Social Service — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 the more permanent values of literature. Perhaps we can make them feel the significance of the characters by talking of them as literary friends. We must try to make these great created characters real—our friends. With some groups, reading some of the philosophy will perhaps give a point of contact on qualities of style, or the pleasure that new information gives. In Adam Bede, for instance, we are shown how different classes in Victorian England lived, what kind of home life, religious and social life they had. The Tree of Liberty reflects customs of our Colonial day, the manifold duties on the big Southern estates, methods of traveling, the educational practices, politics, social affairs and so on. No matter what the approach, we must try to relate the particular novel to our lives, here, today. If we can help our classes to realize that good books are vital in their lives, widening their intellectual horizons, deepening their emotional lives, holding up before them ethical objectives and ideals, if we can create a desire to read good books for their deeper values, then our work will prove a joy and a blessing to our classes. Department THE ECONOMY OF FAMILY-LIFE STUDY Caroline M. Hendricks Utah State Agricultural College HE people of this great nation of ours have a heritage for homemaking, according to James Truslow Adams, who says, in writing about the Colonial life in the 1690-1763 period, "The dominant note in this social life was that of domesticity. In the somewhat romantic atmosphere RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE with which Americans clothe this early period, it is perhaps the peace, simplicity, and unity of family life which contribute the elements of greatest charm.... It is noteworthy that although American cultural life was woven of many ethnic strands, those which at the end of the seventh century were most effective — English, Dutch, French, and German—were of races in which the solidarity of the family was strongly ingrained. To this homemaking instinct, rooted in the inheritance of the settlers, was added the influence of environment. Under the conditions of frontier existence, the family tended to become greatly strengthened as a social, economic and even military unit." The Latter-day Saints have, in addition to the above heritage, the singular doctrine and belief in the eternal life of the family. This, in conjunction with all the emphasis that has been placed on the importance of the home in the teachings and sermons which our prophets and leaders have given to our people throughout all the history of the Church, comprises a homemaking heritage more precious than all the material luxuries that money can buy. Three factors necessary to the preservation and enhancement of our family-life heritage are: first, to develop a well-balanced attitude in regard to the value and importance of home life as a vital factor in our culture; second, to possess a desire for the highest type of home life, which naturally implies a willingness to sacrifice and work for the fulfillment of our desires; third, to spend time and effort in study and research concerning family life. Let us consider, 749  as far as time will permit, each one of these three factors. Let us consider first the value of a well-balanced attitude in regard to home life. It is accepted as a fact that the family is our oldest social institution. It has always carried on such fundamental responsibilities as propagation, economic cooperation, and the rearing of children. Home and family is the center of our complete cultural pattern; it occupies the strategic position in the entire social scheme. This is true, largely, because of the fact that the foundation of the structure of human personality is laid in early childhood, and the family is both the architect and the contractor in charge of this construction. It is true, also, because of the fact that the home has social as well as private aspects—it serves society itself in innumerable ways; it serves husband and wife, and it serves children. Unless homemakers, fathers and mothers, appreciate the importance of the position that the home holds in our civilization, we cannot hope to preserve this precious domestic heritage. The second important factor is to possess a desire for a high-type family life sufficiently strong to carry with it a willingness to sacrifice and work for it. In our desire to build this high-type home, which will serve as the foundation for righteous living, we should be wary of a most common danger—one that causes constant nagging and unhappiness in many homes—the attempt to make one's home a duplicate of the home built by and for another family group for its particular situation. Let us strive for the type of home which will be ideal for our family group according to our circum- 750 stances, realizing that if a home provides for the fullest possible development of the personality of each member of the family and brings happiness into the life of each member, that home is relatively an ideal home, regardless of its lack of similarity to some other home which appeals to us as being ideal. Most students of the family would agree that the criteria by which we might measure the degree of attainment toward an ideal home for any particular family is the effectiveness with which the family adjusts itself to the needs of the members and to the demands of the social environment. The realization of such an achievement is possible only through the intelligent and cooperative expenditure of time, effort and sacrifice on the part of all members of the family. In other words, successful home life does not just happen; it is gained as a result of intelligent study, conscious planning, work and sacrifice, The third essential factor in the preservation and development of our domestic heritage is the study of family life. Study and investigation is the nearest approach to a short cut for help along this line. E do not wish to minimize the value of experience as a guide for home life, rather we would emphasize the fact that those who have developed the ability to profit by the experiences of others, as well as by their own, are indeed fortunate. However, what we can learn from experience is necessarily much more limited than what we can learn through study. It was Coleridge who said, "Io most men experience is like the stern lights of a ship, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 illumine only the track it has passed." However great the value of experience, its value will be enhanced if we are equipped with the necessary knowledge and understanding to intelligently meet, interpret, and evaluate the various experiences which make up our daily living. To depend wholly upon learning from experience to serve as counselors in family life represents an extravagance not to be tolerated by the wise and efficient. As parents, you would be surprised and shocked if you knew the large number of young folk who seek information and advice concerning marriage and family life from someone outside of their home circle, because of the fact that their own parents take the attitude: "Well, what we know we had to learn from experience, because we had no time or opportunity to study. We have succeeded fairly well; therefore, our children can do the same." Does not that attitude exemplify a shirking of the responsibility of parents to prepare their offspring to function as the parents of the future? It isa major duty of each generation to assume the responsibility of enriching the social heritage of the succeeding generation. This is true with regard to the family more than with any other institution in society. If the family heritage which we pass on to the next generation is not superior to that which we inherited from the past generation, we will be held in great guilt, because no generation of parents has had at its disposal as much excellent material and as many opportunities to study family life. Let every parent be aware of the fact that as soon as son or daughter comes to think of Dad or Mother as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE being old-fashioned, behind the times in his or her ideas and advice, Dad and Mother will be relegated to the position of counselors in name only. On the other hand, the parent who has kept up to date in his knowledge, enjoys a real thrill in seeing the child's reaction when he discovers that Dad or Mother can lead out in up-to-date information; and what is more important, such an experience automatically builds up confidence between parent and child and opens wide the door for future approaches for information and advice. The parent who takes the attitude that there is no longer any need for him to study family life will never enjoy such an experience. I feel that we cannot emphasize too forcibly the fact that the study of home life is vitally important for the older mothers and fathers as well as the younger ones. With their richer and more varied experiences in life, they are in a position to profit greatly from such study. They should be prepared and willing to stand staunch and firm as the guideposts. For future family life. It is they who must serve as the balancewheel in controlling, as far as possible, the disorganizing influences of the constant social changes with 751 which we must cope. There is always danger that the younger generation may go too far toward extremes, that they may be too ready to throw overboard many of the things that have been tried and tested and found valuable, and to accept too many of the untried, untested innovations and thus lose some of otr cultural values. The older folk, then, must function as the conservative force; and in order to do so, they must keep up to date in their information. It is encouraging and of great social significance to learn that large numbers of younger mothers and fathers are showing marked interest in the study of family life and are enjoying the fruits of their efforts. On the other hand, where we find parents struggling desperately, without training or preparation for their responsibility, to solve the many problems which arise in every home, we find one of the greatest wastages we have in social life. The economy involved in the study of family life is the saving of time and energy, the enhancement of health and happiness, and the development of adequately adjusted personalities and family groups. EACHING BY DISCUSSING Dr. Billie Hollingshead Brigham Young University  THE REQUISITES TO TEACHING BY DISCUSSING ARE: 1. Thorough preparation by both the teacher and the class. Without this preparation by both teacher and class there is present the current evil of "trying to arrive at collective wisdom through combining individual ignorance." 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 5. A review, summary, or some sort of brief reproduction of the materials to be discussed. In case the teacher is prepared but the class is not, the teacher should present the materials by lecturing, showing of films, letting the class read, reading with the class, or some other such means, as a background for the ensuing discussion.  Consideration of the materials from the viewpoints of its meaning, the correct interpretation, the significance, and application of the principles therein. An example of a topic that may be successfully discussed from such viewpoints is the subject of tithing; the revelation concerning which, given to Joseph Smith, may be found in Section 119 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Certain characteristics as follows: a. Intellectual honesty—which may be explained by stating that a person to be intellectually honest, must think according to his best information and judgment concerning a topic, rather than what he would merely like to believe about that subject. B. Academic freedom—in other words, one must be free to be not only intellectually honest, but he also must be free to express that honesty without fear of unjust reprisals by any group. C. Spirituality—and a desire to help oneself to see everything that is "virtuous, lovely, praiseworthy, and of good report," as well as to help the other members of the class. A striking example in which a person demanded the right to be intellectually honest, academically free, and to express his spirituality may be found in the behavior of Joseph Smith with respect to his visions. Participation evoked by the asking of pivotal questions. A. Questions that will evoke discussion incorporate such terms as: How, why, explain, apply, compare, contrast, and what are the effects, implications, lessons, meanings, or significances, et cetera. B. Such questions must be made out beforehand. They also must be definite, clear-cut, and simply worded. C. Teacher must carry air of confidence that questions can be answered. D. There should be varied participation among the class members. The names of people answering the questions should not be called before the question is posed. The teacher must not dominate the thought nor monopolize the time. A discussion should be a mutual learning situation between the class and the teacher.. Avoidance of serious digressions. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 753 JI. SoME PRACTICAL VARIATIONS OF THE DISCUSSION METHOD ARE: I, N 5- SoME CURRENT ABUSES IN THE USE OF THE DISCUSSION METHOD ARE: III. 1. Forum—in which there is a prepared speech; then the audience may ask questions.. Interview—in which an expert is questioned by one or more people.. Symposium—in which there are several prepared speeches bv a group of people; then questions by the audience. There must be no rehearsals, nor must any member of the group know what another is going to say.. Panel discussion—This resembles the symposium except that there are no set speeches. There is a chairman who gets things started, keeps them going, passes the questions on to others. 'There are no rehearsals; but the style is conversational, and each speaker reacts to the thought of the last speaker. At the end, the audience may question the group. Informal debates.. Lack of preparation—especially in knowing the materials, and the preparing of questions beforehand.. Ignoring opportunities not in the plan. 3. Dogmatic, narrow-minded, one-sided attitude of the teacher who E are emphasizing, espectally in rejects all responses not personally approved of.. Permitting serious digressions.. Employing no variation of method. — Officers Meeting (Thursday, October 3, 1940) PRESIDENT'S REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Amy Brown Lyman and children as well, away from W this conference, the home and the desirability of building up and strengthening family life. Our theme, as the program indicates, is "The Latter-day Saint Home—a Foundation for Righteous Living." There are so many activities and attractions today that take women, home, that we feel that it might be a good plan to inaugurate a "back to the home" movement. We believe in the stability and solidarity of the family. We believe that homes everywhere would be benefited by members of families spending more time together in the family 754 circle. We believe that the home should come first with every Relief Society woman, and work outside the home should come second. Stake Conference Visits We are now in the midst of our annual stake Relief Society conferences. The schedule includes 43 two-stake conferences and 45 onestake conferences, reaching 131 of the 132 stakes—all except Oahu in Hawaii. This is the first time we have adopted a general plan for combining two stakes in one conference. It has been advisable to do this in order to complete the work in the period assigned by the General Authorities. We hope you are liking the plan. We have already heard favorable reports regarding the stimulation that has come through contacts between two stakes participating in the same conference. We are advising that class leaders meet separately in a class leaders' union meeting simultaneously with the meeting for bishops and Relief Society officers. Part of the purpose of the bishops' meeting is lost if it is open to the public. No opportunity is given for a discussion of welfare problems, which should be limited to those workers who are directly concerned. We want you to know that we appreciate the kindness and courtesy you are extending to us; that we are enjoying our visits to your stakes and that they are a source of inspiration and motivation to us which cannot be measured. Your resourcefulness surprises and intrigues us; your courage bolsters' up our courage; your faith and devotion build up our faith; your spirituality strengthens our spirituality. I have noticed a new light in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 the eyes of our new Board members after their first visit to you, which has brightened with each additional contact. 'There is a new enthusiasm which is stimulating their efforts. Project for Work-and-Business Meeting A new project is being organized to be carried on in the work-andbusiness meetings in the Salt Lake Welfare Region. This is an experiment which, if successful, may be extended to other regions. The chairman of our educational work, Counselor Donna D. Sorensen, has been trying to devise a plan which would tie up our regular work meeting with the Church welfare program, and this step has been taken as a beginning. Often in the past, we have been at a loss to know how to plan to keep ourselves profitably busy on work day, but now the welfare program is needing our help. Thus, with one regular Relief Society meeting day a month available, and with the whole ward membership in attendance, it would seem that much might be accomplished for the welfare program. It is not the intention to interfere in any way with the regional sewing centers which have been established, but to supplement their work by making a definite number of articles as assigned by the Region. The heavy work on power machines will continue to be done in the regional sewing center. The project has the hearty approval of the general and regional welfare committees. The plan is as follows: The Salt Lake Region will furnish all materials for the articles, the ward Relief Societies will furnish the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE sewing service, and the General Board will arrange for an expert to do the cutting on the large tables at the regional center. The cut articles will be segregated into bundles which will be delivered to the stakes of the Region, and by the stakes assigned to their respective wards. The finished articles will, with proper labels on them, and after expert inspection by ward and stake work leaders, be carefully packed and returned to the regional storehouse for distribution on bishops' orders. The charge to bishops drawing on this stock will be for material only. In this particular project, none of the articles will be held in the wards. The articles to be made are as follows: women's house dresses, children's dresses, men's flannel and broadcloth pajamas, children's flannel and broadcloth pajamas, women's flannel and seersucker nightgowns, and women's front aprons. The total number of articles made during the year will be 3,500. Each ward will be assigned approximately 24 articles. It will readily be seen that the amount of sewing sent to any one ward will not keep the entire ward membership busy. It will probably be done by one section of each work meeting. Other projects already planned will go on as usual. This plan is an indication of what may be accomplished in the future, especially if it is extended to other regions. It is in reality a direct return to the original idea of Relief Society work meetings. (At this point President Lyman demonstrated bundles of cut materials, containing everything needed to complete the respective articles, and the finished articles made from similar bundles.) 755 Grain-Storing You have all been vitally interested, I am sure, in the recent investment of a portion of the Relief Society wheat fund into wheat, which is now stored in Church elevators. When the Relief Society wheat was turned into cash at the close of the World War, it was done with the understanding and unanimous consent of the Relief Society that the fund would be held in trust at the Presiding Bishop's Office until such time as the General Authorities might deem it advisable to again store grain. That time has now come. It is thought expedient by the First Presidency to keep wheat stored and available as a part of the Church welfare plan. The Church has generously proffered to carry all the expense connected with the storing and proper care of the wheat. This is a comfort to Relief Society women, for it will be remembered by the older sisters that the care of the wheat in earlier days was a real task for them. For nearly twenty years interest on the wheat trust fund has been used for health and maternity work, and a great amount of good has been accomplished with it. With the conversion of a large portion of the fund into wheat, and with the teduction of interest rates on the remaining fund, the amount of the annual interest to be received by wards next July 1 will necessarily be much less than formerly. As was the case last July (see Relief Society Magazine, July, 1940, page 470), interest will be paid by check on all amounts of fifty cents or more, and amounts less than fifty cents will be mailed direct to the Relief Society presi- 756 dents in the form of postage stamps. The checks are drawn in favor of the ward Relief Societies which have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops for ward organizations, and to the stake presidents for stakes. All such payments, whether received in the form of checks or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on the wheat trust fund. Charity Fund In view of our close cooperation with the ward bishops and with the Church welfare plan, and in order to avoid any duplication of effort, it is recommended that the use of the Relief Society charity fund be modified and extended as follows: 1. For Emergency Relief: 'There should always be available in every ward a reserve in the charity fund for emergency relief. A ward president may be called upon any day or night for help for a distressed individual or family, and she should be prepared to give temporary emergency relief until the matter can be taken up with the bishop. Her treasury should never be found empty. 2. For Health and ChildWelfare Purposes: With the conversion of a large portion of the wheat fund into wheat, resulting in a reduction of wheat interest for health work, presidents will no doubt welcome the idea of using some of their charity fund for health work and child welfare. ' 3. For Relief Society Welfare Projects:, In order to be able to initiate any definite Relief Society welfare project, ward presidencies may desire to use a portion of their charity fund for materials or equipment. In extending the use of this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 fund for this purpose, however, it should be strictly understood that it is to be limited to such projects as are sponsored by the Society. Fast Offerings Relief Society women are encouraged to support the First Presidency in the following recommendations which they have made regarding fast donations: "Fast offerings must be received to an amount equalling $1.00 per each member per year. This is an amount within the reach of every head of a family and single person in the Church. Those who can give more should do so." Fast offerings are depended upon to provide the real foundation for the welfare plan. Women's Work Directors Need has arisen for clarification of the duties of women's work directors in the Church welfare plan in relation to the Relief Society. It is optional with the stake and wards as to whether their respective women's work directors are appointed to serve as Relief Society representatives. Stake women's work directors may ot may not be members of the stake board. It is recommended that, insofar as the Relief Society is concerned, the women's work directors are essentially employment representatives who assist unemployed ward members in finding employment, and who assist the Church welfare projects by referring to such projects women who can do the requited work. The two functions of finding employment and: of making family investigations in cases of need are separate and distinct, and ordinarily the employment representative, or work director, should not be RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE assigned both functions. The responsibility of visiting families in need of assistance, analyzing their problems, and making recommendations to the bishop as to assistance needed, rests with the ward Relief Society president. Deseret Industries The Deseret Industries, begun two years ago as a Church welfare project, has recently expanded its program, and has moved its plant and general offices to a much larger building. This project employs regularly about 60 members of the Church in the collection and salvaging of used clothing, furniture, and discarded -articles of all kinds. The re-worked articles are sold to the general public at a number of stores and are also available to stakes wishing to select articles for distribution in their own communities. (All Relief Society workers were invited to attend the official opening of the new plant, at 2234 Highland Drive, Salt Lake City, which occurred Friday, October 4, at 6 p. M.) Central Bishops' Storehouse (Relief Society workers and all conference visitors were also invited to visit the Bishops' Central Storehouse, 751 West 7th South Street, Salt Lake City, where the new grain elevators are being filled with Relief Society wheat. Guides wete in attendance during all hours of the day and evening to escort visitors through the buildings.) Mormon Handicraft The General Board appreciates the support being given to the Mormon Handicraft project. Many wards have taken membership in the Shop 757 for the benefit of their members who may wish to sell their work through the Shop, and as a means of assisting to continue this project. Individual memberships have also been taken by many interested women and by those who consign their handwork to the Shop for sale. The Shop has just experienced its most successful tourist season. It is advisable to consult the Shop as to articles found to be most saleable. Originality, good workmanship and good material are required if articles are to sell readily. Stake Board Meetings Persuant to advice from the General Authorities that we continue to simplify our work and reduce, so far as possible, the number of activities that take us from our wards and from our homes, the General Board recommends that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month— these to be held, of course, in addition to the union meeting. Several stakes who are focusing their attention on building up and strengthening the wards are trying out a plan of holding one board meeting a month and of advising board members to attend their own ward meetings as frequently as possible and to take an active part, as ward members, in the class work there. We believe that by limiting the number of members on stake boards to bare needs, and by limiting stake board meetings, the wards and the homes will be benefited. Class Work It was announced at the April Conference that in the future our educational year would begin uniformly throughout the organization in October 758. With all preliminary meetings and opening socials held in September, and with carefully made plans and preparation, class work can begin in earnest in October. Eight lessons will be considered in each department during the year, with the exception of the social service department, where a lesson in the course on "Education' for Family Life" is not scheduled for Christmas week, It is the hope of the General Board that no lessons will be omitted during the year, and that the full course of study will be given in every ward and branch throughout the organization. Primary Association to Meet on Wednesdays The General Board is pleased to announce that the Primary Association of the Church has decided to change its regular meeting day from Tuesday to Wednesday. Iam sure this change will be gratefully received by Relief Society workers everywhere. It has been very inconvenient for both the Relief Society and Primary to meet on the same afternoon, and in the same building. Ward Conferences Arrangements are no doubt under way for ward conferences to be held early in the season. Fall conferences give excellent opportunity to acquaint the public with the year's program. It is, of course, desirable that these conferences be held on Sunday evenings. Teachers' Visits The question has recently arisen regarding the advisability of visiting — teachers omitting one or more home visits during the summer months, by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 way of a vacation for teachers. It is the desire of the General Board that all Latter-day Saint homes be visited monthly by the teachers during the entire year. Where desirable, however, it is suggested that each teacher might have one month free during the summer period, arrangements for which could be made by using substitute teachers, or by having teachers go singly for one or two months, as necessary. The regular visiting during the rest of the year should go on as usual with the teachers going in pairs. Latter-day Saint families are accustomed to monthly visits, and, besides, it is their opportunity for making their regular monthly charity contributions. With no topics required for the summer months, opportunity is afforded for more informal, friendly visits, and also for special messages from the officers. Ward teaching gives us a most effective method for maintaining unity and solidarity in our organization. Funds and Property at Reorganizations Where a reorganization of a stake takes place, the retiring officers should turn over to their successors, as soon as possible, all funds, record books, circular letters, text-books, and any other property owned by the Society. Although they will arrange to meet all organization expenses already incurred, it is advised that they do not proceed with any new plans or projects which would require the expenditure of Society funds. Stake Funds and the Budget Inasmuch as the Relief Society stake boards retain one-half of the annual dues as a general expense RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE fund, it is unnecessary for any provision to be made in the stake budget for the stake board of Relief Society. Membership Enlistment The membership campaign, or the enlistment work, will begin two weeks later this year, the period being from October 1 to December 31. The growth in membership is very gratifying. What a glorious thing it will be when every eligible mature woman in the Church will be enrolled! Magazine Campaign From September 15 to October 15, we shall be busy taking subscriptions for the Relief Society Magazine. Our August number this year gives details regarding this work. All stake and ward Magazine representatives have been supplied with the revised instructions for this work and with new forms and supplies. We appreciate your efforts in helping to build up the Magazine. Notes to the Field We call the attention of the stake and ward officers to the announcements and official instructions which appear frequently in the "Notes to the Field" department of the Relief Society Magazine. Members as well as officers will be interested in reading this section, which will help them to keep in touch with changes and developments in the Society's work. Blue Bulletins We call to your attention also the importance of reading carefully the blue bulletins which stake and mission presidents are receiving from time to time. They are sent out as need arises and contain important announcements and instruc- 759 tions which should be passed on to your local workers. Questions come to the office quite frequently which have already been answered in these bulletins. Reporting General Conferences We hope that you who are in attendance at conference will have the opportunity upon your return home to review for other stake and local workers the instructions received in our Relief Society sessions and also in the general conference of the Church. Those who are not able to attend are delighted to hear about the proceedings of the conference. Relief Society Centennial Plans are in the making for our centennial observance. They include celebrations in the stakes, and in the wards where desirable, on the 17th of March, 1942. The general celebration will be held in Salt Lake City in connection with our April, 1942, Relief Society conference. Visits to Missionaries in the Field We have been asked to call the attention of the mothers to the fact that visits to missionaries while they are in the field are detrimental to them and to the work, and that such visits are contrary to mission regulations. Missionaries themselves are instructed not to receive or entertain parents, relatives, or friends, without first securing the consent of their mission president. In the nearby missions, visits of relatives and friends have become so common as to be disrupting to missionary work. We feel sure you will bear this in mind, and that you will cooperate with the Priesthood in helping to overcome this practice. 760 Sacrament In the June issue of the Progress of the Church, the Presiding Bishopric stressed the importance of having the deacons who are engaged in passing the sacrament neatly and carefully dressed. We are passing this on to you, the mothers, who more than anyone else can control this matter. Attention is called to the fact that "no uniform style of dress is recommended for the sacrament service, but it is definitely urged that all who are called to administer or pass the sacrament should be neat and clean. It may be necessary at times for boys to wear clothing that is considerably worn, but every member can be neat and clean about both his clothing and his personal appearance. Carelessness in this respect may mar the sacrament service for the entire congregation." Clean-up Program It has been suggested by the Church Beautification committee that ward members clean up their home surroundings and do everything possible to beautify their communities. It is a sad thing that in our wonderful country there are ugliness, untidiness, and carelessness everywhere, all of which could be avoided if more interest were taken. There are unsightly billboards, tawdry stands, dirty streets, unpainted buildings and dumps. I am sure the campaign needs the stimulus of the women who have natural instincts for beauty, organization, and cleanliness. It is, therefore, hoped that all Relief Society members will encourage and support the Priesthood in their worthy efforts in this campaign. Following RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 are some of the tasks outlined: destruction of weeds, gathering and destruction of rubbish and waste, removal of dilapidated buildings, such as old pigpens, chicken coops, and barns too old for use, and the repairing of others which are still of use; also the repairing of fences, gates, and screens. Sale of Tobacco to Minors The Relief Society women will be interested in the drive against tobacco sale to minors, and will desire to support it. Although it is contrary to law, minors in many places may purchase cigarettes. It is the plan that all the stakes and wards will take part in a campaign to enforce the law and protect the next generation from becoming addicts to tobacco. Once started, especially in youth, the cigarette habit is most difficult to overcome. We all have a serious responsibility in protecting our youth against tobacco, and liquor as well. Organizations and Reorganizations in Stakes and Missions As a result of changes which have occurred during the six-month period since our last conference, April, 1940, we report to you the organization of stake boards of Relief Society in 4 new stakes, the reorganization of stake boards in 14 other stakes, and changes in the personnel of Relief Society mission presidents in 9 missions—resulting in a total of 27 new sets of stake or mission officers. In reporting these changes, we express our deep appreciation for the fine service rendered by the retiring officers, who will continue to be interested and helpful members of the Relief Society, and we welcome the newly appointed officers. ORGANIZATIONS Stake Formerly Part Of Appointed President Date Denver Western States Mission Erma A. Rice July 21, 1940 Emigration Ensign Stake Emeline Y. Nebeker March 10, 1940 Riverside Salt Lake Stake Sarah N. Twitchell April 28, 1940 Washington Eastern States Mission Louise C. Bennion June 30, 1940 REORGANIZATIONS Stake Released Appointed President Date Beaver Kate Jensen Lucy R. Nowers August 14, 1940 Boise Mabel S. Nokes Josephine G. Anderson May 12, 1940 Gunnison Clarice B. Larson Eva D. Childs June 30, 1940 Hyrum Laura L. Christensen Minnie A. Miller September 22, 1940 Kanab Vera L. Swapp Lillian C. McAllister March 31, 1940 Lyman Ellen Rolling Katherine Blackner June 16, 1940 Montpelier Romina Perkins Louisa Stephens September 15, 1940 Panguitch Sarah C. Ipson Sarah O. Henrie June 23, 1940 Portneuf Dicy W. Henderson Lera C. Maughan May 26, 1940 Salt Lake Elizabeth C. Williams Maude F. Hanks June 16, 1940 San Juan Hattie R. Barton Charity L. Rowley Sept. 9, 1940 South Davis Ella M. Williams Elizabeth H. Hogan August 18, 1940 Young L. Nettie Behrmann Bergetta A. Covington September 15, 1940 Mission Released Appointed President Date East Central States Jennie Tew Belle C. Jensen June 28, 1940 Eastern States Priscilla L. Evans Mary V. Iverson September 15, 1940 Japanese Hazel M. Robertson Eva B. Jensen July 3, 1940 North Central Sts. Mima M. Broadbent M. Richards July 27, 1940 Northwestern States Ann P. Nibley Florence G. Smith September 30, 1940 Samoan Ruth P. Tingey Hannahbel N. Emery April 20, 1940 Southern States Mary T. Clayson Mary H. Whitaker June 5, 1940 Spanish-American Martha W. Williams Isaymore June 14, 1940 Tahitian Emma H. Iona B. Stevens Edna L. Cannon April 10, 1940 SELF-REALIZATION THROUGH CREATIVE WORK Counselor Marcia K. Howells WOMEN have a natural love of beauty and a persistent desire to create. As they have leisure time lying heavily on their hands, the history of creative effort is interesting. Leonardo Da Vinci, the great Italian artist, painted the "Last Supper" and also the "Mona Lisa." He had one of the keenest minds the world has ever known. The creative urge is in all of us. Power to create varies only in degree. The artist cannot paint a "Last Supper," but we can make something that is useful and beautiful. Our pioneer women did handwork as they came across the plains, knitting, tatting, and even piecing quilts as they jogged along. We, to- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 761 762 day, have a priceless heritage as a result of that activity. Seventy years ago, the Twentieth Ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City made the unique "Friendship Quilt." It is an applique quilt made up of fifty-six blocks, each about twelve inches square. Each block RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 of Eliza R. Snow, with the quotation, "And there shall be nothing to hurt or to destroy in all my holy mountain saith the Lord"; the lamb and the lion are shown peacefully together. On still another block may be seen the words, "The Constitution of Deseret," also, "20th Ward," and "F. R. S." (Female Relief Society). Artists have come to the Utah State Capitol, where this "Friendship Quilt" is on display, to copy designs from it to exhibit in museums and libraries as samples of fine American art. When we think of Eliza R. Snow, we think of her inspired writings, but she did other creative work with great skill. She made exquisite, fine, hand-made net curtains that are as FRIENDSHIP QUILT (Made by Twentieth Ward Relief Society seventy years ago. Now on display at Utah State Capitol) is different from the rest, and each has a religious or patriotic theme. The name of the woman who made the block is written on it in very small letters, with indelible ink, and is still to be seen by using a magnifying glass. One block of this interesting quilt bears the name of Zina D. H. Young and the inscription, "Holiness to the Lord." Another, on which the needlework is very fine, bears the cherished name RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE rare as they are beautiful. Excellence in one kind of creative activity does not preclude excellence in other kinds. Using the hands stimulates the brain. Refreshment to body and mind comes with the creation of something useful and beautiful. We have in our Mormon Handicraft Shop, which is operated by the Relief Society, some beautiful pieces of hand-hammered copper, much in demand. These are made by a Mormon boy, not yet twenty years old. He has originated unique and interesting designs, and his mother says it requires nearly 3500 swings of the hammer to make a copper bowl less than one foot in diameter. The returns from his work have meant much to the boy as well as a degree of economic security for his widowed mother. One of our women made an exquisite, tatted banquet cloth, which sold from the same shop for nearly one hundred dollars. From a small spool of thread in skilled hands, it grew into a beautiful masterpiece of art and usefulness. I ADMIRE women who can garden and have a chance to practice their art. I passed a little old house one day, which was surrounded by a very beautiful garden. Long rows of zinnias and asters made the place very lovely. Beautiful blue morning-glories, earlier in the season, had transformed the back fence into a bower of delicate blooms. Photographers had come to get pictures, in color, of the rare specimens. Many saw the blue morning-glories and were happier because of them. The planting of a ten cent package of seed was responsible for this profusion of color. 763 The story is told of a certain middle-aged man, both lazy and illiterate, who was made president of a whittling club, because he could carve interesting objects from wood. The recognition he received as president so delighted him that he became interested in work and in time learned to read and write. In the face of some calamity, such as loss of health or the death of a loved one, some people are so bankrupt in interests that they are forced to seek psychiatric or medical aid. Occupational therapy has become an important branch of mental hygiene. Some hospitals are equipped with a wide range of handicraft service aimed to increase or restore mental poise. I know a little old woman who became suddenly blind with a nerve disease of the eyes. She had been accustomed to many of the good things of life; she had lived in comfortable circumstances and had traveled considerably. I called to visit her the other night. A special phonograph, built for the blind, was reciting one of Tennyson's beautiful poems, and this blind woman was working over a rug. A grandchild was helping her sort the colors. The rug was beautiful; few people, with all their faculties unimpaired, could make such a one. The little old woman was cheerful, happy and occupied. The doctors might cite this as an example in which occupational therapy had been prescribed and had worked out successfully, due to the intelligent cooperation of the patient. "When people without money produce commodities they can use, they create new material wealth. 764 Often they bring to themselves satisfactions which even the ability to purchase cannot bring." Whether the object is a painting on canvas, a hand-hammered bowl, or a beautiful afghan, if it serves well the purpose for which it was intended, it is a work of art. Art is simply the best possible way of doing that which needs to be done. The utility of the object is one of the first tests. Any woman who can cook, sew, or garden in a superior way finds happiness, which creative effort brings. The real value obtained from any creative work is what you yourself put into it, not what others think of it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 Relief Society women should become more interested in handicraft. We must utilize our leisure time. Leisure time should be learning time. "Adult education presumes that the creative spark may be kept alive throughout life." "Making things with the hands has been an everyday practice throughout the ages, while learning through books is for the masses of people a comparatively recent achievement." The proper combination of the two—hand work with head work—results in self-realization and a degree of happiness and security which may be obtained in no other way. LOOKING FORWARD TO '42 Edith S. Elliott Relief Society General Board Member WE feel that plans should be under way immediately in each of the stakes of Zion for the centennial celebration of the Latter-day Saint Relief Society. An anniversary is a memorable occasion, but a centennial is a time for supreme rejoicing in past accomplishments, for satisfaction in working out present-day problems and for dedicating ourselves to even greater heights in the future. This oldest of women's organizations, which has functioned continuously for nearly 100 years, deserves the best and finest of commemorations. It is not one minute too soon for the stakes to make preparations for their local observances on March 17, 1942. Much time, research, preparation, inspiration and, in our case, many prayers, are needed to do justice to so worthy a cause. A centennial chairman should be appointed in each stake right away. She, preferably, should be one of the present members of the stake board. Choose the best and most talented person you have for the job. Have her form a committee and start working as soon as possible. We encourage you to work out your own programs, because you know your own community and its traditions best. You know what has made your locality unique. We hope each committee will look to the individual membership for assistance, so that each Latter-day Saint Relief Society woman may feel that she has actually contributed to this great occasion. You may ask, "How can we best celebrate in our own localities?" I RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE could best answer with another question: "What have we done with our century of opportunity and enlightenment?" In answering this, we can refer to the wealth of Relief Society material found in each little community where our Church is established. Go to your local Relief Society records. Read old diaries. Seek out the older people who have played so colorful a part in the beginning of towns and cities. Look for individual accomplishments made by Relief Society members. Acquaint yourselves with Relief Society group projects. Such interesting accounts can be found of the spiritual, physical, mental and financial aspects of life. An impressive story can be woven around the saving of Sunday eggs for the purchase of wheat. Another could tell of the installation of a water system at the instigation of Relief Society workers. There are faith-promoting incidents, sacred to a given section. One stake already reports that they will have an all-day celebration with 765 luncheon and dinner as a big feature. Another stake's aim is for a complete scrapbook; another, a roll of honor upon which the names of all members in that stake for the centennial year will be listed. One stake seeks to honor all its past stake Relief Society presidents. Others plan to do honor in song, story, drama, pageantry, tableau, and poetry. One stake will collect literary and musical selections produced by local talent. In gathering historical facts, let them live and breathe. Combine realism with symbolism. Let each story vibrate with purposeful meaning. To tell a story is one thing, but to tell it in such a way that it will stimulate someone to an appreciation of events and enable them to carry home a wholesome thought, is quite another. Don't lose sight of the humorous situations that add spice to any undertaking. Let your efforts make for a complete Relief Society symphony. THE WARD PRESIDENT'S RESPONSIBILITY TO THE VISITING TEACHERS Alice B. Castleton Relief Society General Board Member Jesus Christ said, "Let him who is greatest among you, be servant of all." JESUS, the greatest leader of all men, gave us the finest example of true leadership that has ever been known in the world. Before he finished his work upon the earth, he left with his disciples the power of spiritual leadership. In a book written by Arthur Jones, called Education for Youth in Leadership, he says, "Leadership is the process of securing cooperation of a group, working toward a goal that they accept as desirable." Again, he says, "Leadership is interested in how people can be brought together for a common end, effectively and happily." There is always a place in every 766 walk of life for leaders; and in this Church, there is a place for women who have a testimony of the Gospel, women who have the desire and power to love their fellowmen, women who are blessed with the essential qualifications that every real leader should possess. Maybe some of you are familiar with the story of a great general who called his son to his bedside for advice and counsel. The father had been one of the world's greatest generals. He was about to die, and his son had been chosen as his successor. Anxious for his son's success, he gave him the secret of leadership. He said, "My son, if you expect to become a great general, you must make your men believe that you are the bravest man in the army, that you have greater endurance, and that you know more about military tactics than any other man; that you have broader understanding and greater sympathy than any other man in the army." The son, bewildered by what the father had told him, asked, "How can I make my men believe this of me?" The father's answer was unmistakable. He said, "My son, be that man." Leadership and responsibility go hand in hand. We know that the strength of an organization depends largely upon its leadership. In my opinion, there are four essential qualifications for successful leadership: intelligence, initiative, sympathy, impartiality. A ward president, too, must have an abiding faith in the cause she represents. She must have faith in the women with whom she is working, and faith in the divine guidance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 of God. She will have some knowledge of all phases of the Relief Society and understand its ideals, history and motives. She will be keenly aware of the importance of the visiting teachers as messengers from the organization to the people of the wards, and as messengers from the people to the Society. She will instruct them that their first duty is to live this glorious Gospel. She will impress them with the fact that the organization was founded and is directed by divine guidance, and that to those who are diligent in the performance of their duties, spiritual, mental and social development is the award awaiting them. A president will inspire her teachers to be kind, tolerant and self-reliant, and she will endeavor to win their love and confidence. THE activity of the visiting teachers has stood the test of nearly 100 years. Perhaps no other activity in the Relief Society provides greater opportunity for unselfish service. Through this system of monthly, friendly visiting, teachers are privileged to visit people who have no social contacts; they go into broken homes and homes where death reigns; they are privileged to go into homes that are examples of fine living and culture. They are enlistment workers. They find many women in their districts who, through a little personal interest, will become active members. By calling attention to the educational program and also the activities of the work-and-business day, they awaken interest. They also encourage young mothers to become members. "Beautiful friendships tried by sun and wind, durable from the daily dust of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE life," are made through this work. A president should select women as visiting teachers who are endowed with great wisdom and who are faithful to every trust. "And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble, full of love, having faith, hope, charity, being temperate in all things whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care." (Doc. and Cov. 12:8) Perhaps there is greater need for efficient visiting teaching today than ever before. We are living in a world of trouble and chaos. The problems that are facing us are many, and there is need for spiritual guidance in our work. Our leaders tell us: "The greatest need in the world today is a return to religion and faith in God." The visiting teachers who have faith in God will inspire confidence in the people whom they visit. Henry Adams once said, "A teacher affects eternity. She can never tell where her influence stops." Great happiness and satisfaction come through service. We have at present 2,800 visiting 767 teachers who represent the Relief Society in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. The majority of them are women who are faithful to their duties, women who have a testimony of the Gospel and who are upholding the standards of the Church. President Grant once said, "No man can teach this Gospel who does not live it." Relief Society presidents are called by the Priesthood of God and are given the divine authority to lead, guide, and instruct the visiting teachers and to inspire them to magnify their calling. They are tireless in their devotion to their responsibilities, and they are exerting a profound influence upon the conduct of their visiting teachers. I am sure these fine women will be richly rewarded for the services they render, and that they will realize the promises made to the faithful by the Lord: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of our Lord." PUBLIC WELFARE PROVISIONS Vera W. Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer WELFARE provisions in general relate to three large groups, classified broadly as dependents, delinquents, and defectives. I shall not attempt, in these few moments, to discuss provisions relating to delinquents and defectives—whose care is largely institutional. Time will permit only a very brief summary of public welfare provisions for the dependents—who are assisted usually in their homes. In Utah, and in other states where members of the Church represent a fairly large proportion of the total population, the Government and the Church are the two largest distributors of relief to those who are unemployed or otherwise unable to maintain themselves and their fam- ilies. Because many people in need and distress appeal to both the Government and the Church for assistance, the work of these two agencies often meets and even overlaps, and therefore it is important that each should understand, in general, the objectives, scope, and procedures of the other. In fact, it is doubly important for those engaged in Church welfare work to understand the public welfare provisions and to cooperate with public agencies in their administration, because the members of the Church contribute to the support of both the public and the Church relief systems. They help to support public welfare measures when they pay property, income, and sales taxes; they contribute to the Church welfare plan when they pay fast offerings and tithing, when they make donations to the Relief Society, and when they otherwise further Church welfare by giving their services, commodities, or additional funds. Therefore, members of the Church are vitally interested in the intelligent and efficient administration of both Government and Church welfare funds. They do not want to see their tax-dollar spent to meet the same need in the same family which has already been met by their Church contributions, or vice versa. According to the 1940 edition of the Bishop's Handbook, "faithful members of the Church should receive first consideration by the bishopric of the ward and the Relief Society" in the matter of assistance from the Church, but inactive members are designated as the responsibility of the public relief agencies. The Bishop's Handbook also says, "Church members should be counseled against seeking public aid unless they are entitled to it and do not have other means of livelihood. Common honesty and loyalty to the Government demands such a course, in fairness to those who are eligible for this assistance." In discussing briefly some of the more important nation-wide public welfare provisions, I shall make specific reference, wherever necessary, to their application in the State of Utah, inasmuch as nearly two-thirds of the Relief Society members in the United States live in Utah. Do not be surprised when I tell you that there are more than a dozen major public welfare provisions for the care of the dependent and for the prevention of dependency. There is some truth in the statement of John Paine that "In the richest land on earth, work begins at 14, unemployment at 16, old age at 35, life at 40, unemployability at 45, and social security at 65." Inception of Federal Aid THE Federal Government first became a source of relief in 1932 when federal funds for relief were first made available to the states as an emergency measure during the depression. These federal grants to states were used for both direct relief and work-relief, and were administered by the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) during a period of three years. In Utah, the federal grants were augmented by the existing county poor funds, and also by the first State funds for relief. State relief funds are derived from the sales tax, first imposed in 1933. Then, in 1935, the Federal Government adopted measures which separated 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the two functions of granting direct relief to those unable to work and of operating public works to relieve unemployment. It was recognized that there were among the dependent population large unemployable groups who would continue to be dependent even though employment were available. It was also recognized that a large proportion of the dependent population was employable and needed only the opportunity to earn a livelihood. Farm families on or near relief constituted still another large group in need of consideration. Accordingly, in 1935, Congress enacted measures providing for public work programs, and other measures providing for direct grants of assistance to the needy aged, blind, and children living with widowed mothers. Public Work Programs THE three public work programs designed to provide employment for dependent and near-dependent households are the Works Projects Administration (WPA), the National Youth Administration (NYA), and the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC). The WPA assigns to its projects only those workers who have been certified as being in need of assistance. The NYA provides part-time employment to students in school, and to out-of-school youths. This employment is not restricted to youths from entirely dependent families, but is extended also to those from low-income families. The CCC was initiated in 1933 and was the first of the nation-wide federally operated emergency employment programs. Under this program, unmarried young men are selected from de- 769 pendent and unemployed households for employment in camps established on public property. The CCC boy is provided with maintenance at the camp and is required to assign most of his small monthly wage to his family. All three of these federal work programs provide small cash incomes for the families from which the workers are drawn. These earnings should, of course, be taken into consideration by Relief Society presidents when determining the needs of families in which one or more members are thus employed. With respect to Church members employed on federal work programs, the 1940 edition of the Bishop's Handbook says, "Those who work on federal projects where a regular wage is offered should continue their employment so long as they have no other means of livelihood, but should be sure to give a full day's work for the wages received." Aid for Farm Families THE federal measures designed to help farm families on or near relief to become permanently self-supporting are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the Farm Security Administration (FSA). These measures provide for three distinct but related programs —rural and suburban resettlement, rural rehabilitation, and farm tenancy. The resettlement aspect of the program has two phases—the guidance of individual farmers in finding new and better locations, and the establishment of organized community projects. A typical example in Utah was the purchase by the Government of submarginal lands in 770 Garfield County and the establishment of the former owners in homes on better land in other parts of the state. Through its rural rehabilitation division, the FSA makes loans to impoverished farmers unable to obtain credit from other agencies, for the purchase of livestock, equipment, repairs, and supplies to enable them to become self-supporting. Under the farm tenancy program, the FSA makes loans to tenants, sharecroppers, and farm laborers to enable them to buy family-size farms. In addition to making loans, the FSA also distributes cash subsistence grants to the farm families under its care. These grants are not subject to repayment and represent a form of direct public relief. Relief Society presidents who are responsible for determining the needs of rural families applying for assistance from the Church should be aware of this type of federal aid which is going into many farm families. Social Security Act THE other federal welfare provisions to which I shall refer are all encompassed in the Social Security Act, which was passed by Congress in August, 1935, and amended in some respects in 1939. Six of the titles or sections of this Act provide for grants of funds to the several states for various purposes, but these grants become effective only in those states which comply with their provisions and which participate financially by matching the federal funds with a certain proportion of state funds. The provisions of these titles are administered by the participating states but under the supervision of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 the Federal Government. One other title is administered directly by the Federal Government and requires neither acceptance nor financial participation by the states. Service Provisions TWO of these titles provide for direct and indirect services to individuals and communities. These services relate to crippled children, maternal and child health, child-welfare services, vocational rehabilitation of the physically handicapped, and public health work. Time will not permit a description of these services, but they are all operative in the State of Utah, and you know them in your own communities as the public-health units serving one or more counties; as the county public-health nurse; the clinics for mothers and children; the traveling dental unit; the specialized child-welfare worker who is interested in the children in your community who have serious behavior problems, who are unadjusted to school, who are orphaned, deserted, neglected, or in danger of becoming delinquent. You also see the evidence of these social security services in the crippled children who are sought out in dependent and low-income families and given the corrective treatment which their families cannot afford, and in the physically-handicapped individuals who are trained or re-trained vocationally so that they will be able to earn a livelihood despite their handicaps. All these services are resources at your disposal to which you can turn for help in meeting and solving some of the health problems, some of the behavior and other problems which confront every Re- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE lief Society president in her family welfare work. Social Insurance FIVE titles of the Social Security Act provide for direct money payments to individuals. Two of these titles relate to social insurance benefits and three titles provide for direct grants of public assistance to the needy aged, blind, and dependent children. The two social insurance provisions are unemployment compensation and old-age and survivors insurance. The benefits paid under both of these provisions are derived from employment taxes, and go chiefly to low or average wage workers who, ordinarily, are unable to lay away savings for periods of unemployment or for their old age. The Bishop's Handbook for 1940 says, with respect to Church members, "Workers who are entitled to unemployment compensation and individuals covered by old-age insurance should be counseled to accept these benefits." Relief Society presidents should be aware of these two sources of cash income when considering applications for assistance from those who are eligible for these benefits. However, there are large groups of workers in the United States who are not covered by either of these forms of social insurance. The uninsured workers are domestic servants in private homes, agricultural labor, and employees of nonprofit institutions such as federal, state, and local units of government, churches, and charitable organizations. The one form of social insurance —unemployment compensation—is a system under which a man or woman who loses employment will, 771 while unemployed or partially unemployed, be paid unemployment benefits in proportion to previous wages for a limited period of time. In order to accumulate a fund from which these benefits are paid, contributions are required by law of all employers of four or more workers, except in the exempted types of employment already mentioned. The workers themselves do not pay anything into this fund. The purpose of this compensation is to tide workers over between jobs, so that they will have some measure of security during periods of unemployment. Relief Society women will be interested in the fact that unemployed women receive about one-third of the total amount paid as unemployment compensation. The other social insurance title of the Social Security Act provides for old-age benefits and survivors insurance. This is the one provision of the Social Security Act which is administered directly by the Federal Government throughout the United States, and which does not depend upon some measure of financial participation by the states. This is a form of insurance payable, irrespective of need, to retired workers after they become 65 years of age, or to their survivors. The benefits are payable monthly to the beneficiaries for the rest of their lives. The trust fund from which these insurance benefits are paid is derived from a tax on the wages of workers, and this tax is payable by both the worker and his employer. The amount of these benefits is based on the number of years during which each individual's wages were taxed and the amount of such wages. About 28 million workers in the 772 United States come under the provisions of this Act, and it is for this purpose that workers throughout the nation are registered and assigned identifying Social Security numbers. Again, you will be interested to know that about one-third of the workers covered by this form of insurance are women. More than three million dollars per month is now being paid throughout the United States to 150,000 retired workers or their aged wives, widows, orphans or dependent parents. The purpose of this type of insurance is to give some measure of security to those individuals and their families who are no longer employable because of old age, and to give it as a matter of right from the trust fund to which they contributed during their earning years. Public-Assistance Grants BENEFITS under this plan could not, of course, begin immediately upon passage of the Social Security Act in 1935, but only after a period of time during which credits could accrue to the workers. Therefore, in order to assist those needy individuals already 65 years of age or older, and those not covered by this federal plan of old-age insurance, the Social Security Act also provided for the payment of old-age assistance — a form of direct relief for those 65 years of age and older who are in need. This is one of the three public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act, the other two being for dependent children and for the needy blind. In providing for these three dependent, industrially unemployable groups, it was the purpose of the Social Security Act to extend to them some measure of security RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 rather than the emergency relief of the three previous years, or the uncertain and inadequate county pensions which, during the preceding twenty-five years, had been paid only by some counties in some states. Hence, even the term "relief" is avoided with reference to these three groups, and the term "assistance" used instead. THE general provisions of each of these three public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act are very similar. They all specify need as the basis for individual grants, and stipulate that the assistance given must be in the form of cash grants, and that it must be paid direct to eligible individuals in their own homes. Consequently, these public-assistance grants cannot be paid to individuals who are receiving care in institutions—a reversal of the policy in effect for nearly two hundred years under the early poor-relief laws when almshouse care was considered to be the best method of providing for the poor. In each of these three types of aid, the Federal Government pays one-half of the individual cash grants up to a specified maximum, and the state and counties pay the other half. In Utah, the state law stipulates that counties contribute 15 per cent of these grants, and the state sales tax therefore meets 35 per cent. In order for any state to qualify for these federal public-assistance grants, the state's plans for these types of aid must be in effect in all counties of the state and mandatory upon them; the state must be authorized to participate with funds appropriated or made available out of the state treasury; and the grants must be issued RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE throughout the state under the supervision of a single state agency. In Utah, this single state agency is the Department of Public Welfare, which operates through a Department of Public Welfare in each county. These requirements insure the extension of these types of public assistance to all counties of the state and tend toward uniformity of administration in all counties. Most states, including Utah, impose the maximum residence restrictions permitted by the Social Security Act with respect to individuals applying for these types of aid. In order to qualify for old-age assistance, an individual must have reached his 65th birthday, and must be in need. Aid to dependent children is granted with respect to children under 16 years of age, and with respect to children between 16 and 18 years of age who are in school, provided all such children are deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home, or disability of either parent, and provided they are living with their mother, or with other relatives coming within the twelve degrees of relationship specified in the Social Security Act. Aid to the blind is granted to adults in Utah who are in need and who have a specified degree of blindness as determined by ophthalmic measurement. Under authorization of the 1939 Utah State legislature, the Department of Public Welfare also provides "medical and surgical eye care and other sight conservation work." Old-age assistance plans are in effect in every state and county in the United States, and there are nearly 2 million recipients of old-age grants. Aid to the needy blind is extended to about 48,000 individuals living in 43 states, and grants are made in 42 states for more than 800,000 children living with widowed mothers or other relatives. General Relief IN every state there is a group of dependents not coming under provisions of either the federal Works Program or the public-assistance titles of the Social Security Act, or who are covered by these provisions but do not receive care thereunder because of limited public funds. This group is composed largely of physically handicapped or otherwise unemployable individuals, and also of employable individuals who for various reasons cannot be employed on WPA projects. The public aid extended to these individuals is termed "general assistance," in contra-distinction to the special types of aid for classified groups. Although formerly issued principally in the form of commodities, almost all general relief in Utah is now issued in the form of cash. There have been no federal funds for this type of aid since withdrawal of the emergency relief (FERA) funds at the end of 1935. Therefore, general public relief in Utah is provided from 15 per cent county funds and 85 per cent state sales tax funds. Surplus Commodities ALL recipients of public assistance also receive regularly, in addition to their cash allowances, surplus commodities in the form of food, clothing, and household articles such as towels and bedding. These commodities are made available through the Federal Surplus Commodities Corporation which buys surplus 773 774 foods and textiles, and distributes them without charge to certified recipients of public relief as a means of removing surpluses from the market and stabilizing farm prices. These surplus commodities are issued as an addition to the family's relief allowance, not as a part of it. Need Determined ALL three of the special types of public assistance, as well as general relief, are issued on the basis of need; in Utah need is determined in each instance through an investigation by a case worker in the County Department of Public Welfare. For old-age assistance, the Utah law specifies need as an income of less than $30 per month; for all other types of aid, need is determined by means of a standard budget which serves as a uniform measure of the minimum requirements of individual families. From this individualized family budget is subtracted the resources and income of the household, and the deficiency thus established represents the amount of public assistance required. In subtracting the resources and income of the household, the public agency must take into account the income from all sources, including relief provided by any other agency, such as the bishop or ward Relief Society president. In other words, the public assistance funds are used to supply that portion of the needs of the individual or family which cannot be provided from private tesources. This means, then, that if the Church puts relief into the same family which also receives assistance from the county, and for the same purposes as those specified in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 public-relief budget, the county is obligated to consider such Church telief as income for the family, and to deduct it from the amount of public relief which would otherwise be given. Wherever the ward supplements public assistance in this way, the Church is actually shouldering a part of the legal responsibility of the public agency. Although such supplementary aid by the Church may decrease the amount of money expended for public relief, it does not decrease the number of individuals actually receiving some measure of public aid. The case counts of the public agency necessarily include those who ate partially dependent as well as those who are entirely dependent upon it. Consequently, the effect of Church aid on the public relief rolls would be more evident if that proportion: of Church telief which now goes toward supplementation of public relief in a great many families were used, instead, to lift even a few of those families from public relief entirely. Church Welfare Program DESPITE the varied and extensive public welfare provisions which I have described briefly, there is vital need of the Church welfare program. Not only does it foster industry, thrift, self-reliance, cooperation, and mutual helpfulness among all members of the Church, but it can serve the dependent 'and underprivileged in at least four general classifications: First, it extends aid to its faithful members who are in need but unable to work. Second, it provides employment for those able to work in exchange for their needs, including particularly those who are unemployable in private industry or on RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE federal work projects, but who can be occupied, according to their abilities, under the Church welfare plan. (By this means, many are sustaining themselves without appealing for public aid.) Third, the Church can render valuable service to those who are receiving public assistance by mecting some of the many needs for which there are no available public funds, provided such supplementary aid is given, as the Bishop's Handbook directs, "only with the knowledge 775 and cooperation of the public agency, and with a thorough understanding of the family's needs and requirements." And finally, there is a wide field for constructive Church assistance in the low-income families who because of small incomes are ineligible for public relief, but who nevertheless are scantily clad, unable to meet medical bills, unable to pay school tuition, and unable to provide for many other aspects of normal life. ——___ General Session (Thursday, October 3, 1940) OUR GREATEST NEED Marianne C. Sharp Relief Society General Board Member IN order that any Latter-day Saint home may be a foundation for righteous living, that home must have as one of its foundation stones a belief and practice in prayer. Our greatest need is to keep open at all times the path of communication between Heaven and us. We must pray with a broken heart and a contrite spirit. Sometimes when we kneel to pray, we know that our thoughts wander and our spirits are not one with the spirit of prayer; but before we begin to pray, we must work with ourselves and humble ourselves, so that our prayers will be the outpouring of the desires of our hearts—then we know our prayers are heard, and peace comes to our souls. Such a prayer will not be a set, formal one, neither will it multiply words. Just before the Savior gave us the manner in which we should pray, "The Lord's Prayer," he warned against vain repetitions such as the heathens use, "For your Father," he said, "knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him." (Matt. 6:8.) Christ also told us to "watch and pray always," and he gave a parable to his disciples "to this end that men ought always to pray, and not to faint." (Luke 18:1) Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants says, "Pray always that ye may not faint until I come," and Section 33 reads: "Wherefore, be faithful, praying always, having your lamps trimmed -and burning, and oil with you, that you may be ready at the coming of the Bridegroom—For behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, that I come quickly. Even so, Amen." (33:17) Through prayer we come to know the things of God; and through prayer we may also be given the strength to liveaccording to the things of God we have come to know. If the Prophet Joseph Smith had not had a childhood training in prayer, surely it would not have occurred to him to go out into the woods and there offer up his first vocal prayer when he read James' declaration, "If any of you lack wisdom, let him askof God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." (James 1:15) The boy prophet prayed for wisdom; and as a result of this prayer, the heavens were opened, and he ushered in this Last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We are met here today as members of the Relief Society, but the members of the Relief Society are also the mothers in Zion. As such, we are not doing our full duty by our children to train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, unless by example and precept we teach them to pray in public and private. Under the direction of the Priesthood in our homes we must gather our children around us night and morning for family prayers. We must teach our children to thank the Lord for his past blessings and pray that they may be worthy to have them continued in the future. Let us teach our children while young to sustain the authorities of our Church by praying each day that they may be guided and upheld by the Lord, and let us at all times and in all conditions acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our affairs. "One peculiarity of our faith and religion," as Brigham Young states, "is never to ask the Lord to do anything without being willing to help Him all that we are able, and then the Lord will do the rest." I think we should remember this when we ask the Lord to heal the sick in our households. I knew a mother who had a child born with an affliction. The doctor told her it was incurable, but urged her to take the baby toa specialist. This the mother was very unwilling to do, because she felt if she kept her child home she could heal it by faith; but after a short time, the mother remembered this belief of the Latter-day Saints and also that all knowledge has been given of God to his children for their well-being, and so she took her child to the specialist. He promised no cure, but said the condition might improve as the years passed, and he showed her what measutes to take for the baby. This did not at all daunt the mother, for she felt her faith would now be more justified. Each day she carried out the doctor's instructions, and she also implored the Lord with faith to heal her baby. In a few months her child was healed of its affliction, and the first doctor, when he again saw the child, called' it a miracle. Never has there been a time when we needed prayer more than now, and nothing will bind a family closer together than family prayers. Ill feelings vanish during a heartfelt prayer, and hatred, envy, and malice disappear before a fervent prayer. Through our prayers, we are reminded of the brotherhood of man and of that larger family of our Heavenly Father to which we belong. Love, that great commandment, increases through prayer. Nowhere do we find more beautiful passages on prayer than in the Book of Mormon. We are shown how great and marvelous prayer may be in the 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER, 1940 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE account of Christ's visit to the Nephites recorded in 3rd Nephi. After healing their afflicted, He instructed the Nephites to place their children around Him and then commanded the multitude to kneel. "And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and said: Father, Iam troubled because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel. And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold. He prayed unto the Fathet, and the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father. And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can 117 the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father." And the multitude was overcome; but when Jesus bade them arise, and they arose, he said to them, "Blessed are ye because of your faith. And now behold, my joy is full." If we are true and faithful to the principles of the Gospel, we may sometime have the privilege, as the Nephites of old, of being in the presence of our Savior. Our joy will not be full, however, unless our children are there with us. So may we teach them to love the Gospel. May we do all we can do, all we should do, to teach them to pray, that each one may know for himself that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. ___ MY DAILY PRAYER Luacine Savage Clark God grant that I may older grow becomingly— No added years of worry and complaint, Of peevishness and eccentricities. God grant that I may mellow with the years Into full days of gratitude for blessings I enjoy; May I with growing faith belittle grief and pain. God grant each setting sun may see some good deed done; May daily trials be but stepping stones to higher summits, Where with undimmed eyes I may behold some worthy recompense. God grant that I may tread the narrow way, No footstep faltering, nor straying from the path. God grant that I may live, no matter what my years, That friends may say at parting I have eased some aching head, or dried some bitter tears. God grant this may be so. HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon NOVEMBER—Happiness comes by giving happiness. HISTORIC buildings sometimes seem to have a personality; then they become shrines in the hearts of people. Greece had her Parthenon, Rome her Coliseum, India her Tajmahal, while here "where the West begins" there once stood a classic fane, dramatically called "A Cathedral in the Desert"—The Salt Lake Theatre. The theatre was a model in architecture; a symbol of the culture and inspirational ideals of a great people, who with sublime faith passed through the furnace of sacrifice and found refuge in an arid desert. In memory of this beloved temple of art and in order that future generations may have a reminder of its traditions and history, a bronze plaque, on its frieze a mythological story in bas-relief, with a few words below telling that here was the site of the old playhouse, has been placed in a niche of a modern structure. The plaque was unveiled October 4, 1940, with impressive ceremonies. JOANNA SPRAGUE, 42. Years librarian of Salt Lake City public library, was signally honored last month when she received a Distinguished Service Award from the State Library Association. NAZIMOYA, one of the great stars of the stage, after an absence of 15 years, is soon to appear as the herome in the picturization of Ethel Vance's dramatic story, "Escape." NINA FEDEROVA has been awarded the $10,000 "Atlantic" prize for her novel, "The Family," an odd story in a Tientsin setting. MRS. GRAFTON BURKE, connected with the Episcopal mission in Alaska, after an absence of 30 years has returned to the United States to live. She helped found a hospital at Ft. Yukon for tubercular sufferers, and she had personal charge of the children's convalescent ward. HARLOTTE, Grand Duchess of Luxemburg, has joined her Prince Consort and children in the United States—though refugees, happy to escape war-torn Europe. M48Y MOYLE BOOTH of Al- " " pine, Utah, who died recently, spent most of her life laboring with her husband in the Palestine-Syrian mission teaching Gospel truths in a darkened land where once the Savior walked and taught. HANNAH M. ALDRICH, handcart pioneer of 1856, was 100 years old last month. On the occasion of her birthday, she related many marvelous experiences of her long and useful life. ELLEN ALLEN BRIGHTON, 8s, ~ Gold Star mother, and Mary Ann L. Burt, 91, are two estimable and devoted Relief Society women who died this late summer. VIELLA BUTLER, of Utah, has written a novel titled "Re-Creation," which will soon be off the press. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD - President First Counselor Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells - - - - - Donna D. Sorensen - - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garff Vivian R. MceConkie Anna S. Barlow Marianne C. Sharp Leona B. Fetzer Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 


Vol. XXVII NOVEMBER, 1940 No. 11 C? EDITORIAL ??Our Privilege and Blessing a Prophet." These words ascended as a prayer of gratitude from thousands of hearts at the recent semi-annual general conference of the Church. The privilege of having our Prophet in attendance at the meetings and of partaking of his influence and spirit caused us to thank our Heavenly Father for His blessings unto us. Our prayers went up in behalf of our President; and when he gave us his blessing, our hearts were filled with rejoicing. The inspired words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, as well as those of other Church leaders, were a blessing, a comfort, and a source of wise guidance to the Latter-day Saints. How blessed are we of the Lord! Twice each year the women of the Church are privileged to assemble in general Relief Society conference to review their work, receive instructions, partake of the spirit of those who have been called to direct the work of this great organization and to renew their faith in its divinity. This year our blessings seemed unusually abundant. Twice each year we are privileged to meet together in a general Church counsel, and blessings from men holding the Priesthood of God. We are never left in darkness as to the path to take, but are warned and forewarned. 'The voices of God's authorized agents on earth direct the course of all who will listen and take heed. There is no excuse for anyone to say, "I know not the road to take," for it is written and spoken by the prophets of the Lord. Twice each year we meet that they might interpret for our understanding "the way and the ways and the way." It is our choice to obey authority and follow counsel or to refuse the light given. Only six months elapse before we again are given opportunity to partake of the conference spirit, to fill our souls with spiritual food and rejoice in the goodness and greatness of our Father. He has, indeed, provided for us in our weakness; He has seen that we are in need of constant spiritual guidance and has provided the way. Let us show our gratitude unto Him by obedience to the words of His prophets, by heeding warning counsel, by serving in His cause in the way appointed unto each, by "thanking our God for a Prophet," in actions as well as in song. Leda T. Jensen Edith S. Elliott Thank Thee, O God, For conference to. Receive warning, EXCERPTS FROM "WILFORD WOODRUFF" By Matthias F. Cowley Selected by Marianne C. Sharp (March, 1844, on leaving for a mission to the Eastern States) "This was the last mission the Prophet ever gave to the Twelve Apostles in this dispensation. He wished none of us to remain by him except Willard Richards. Apostle John Taylor was later required to remain and take charge of the printings and publications. The Prophet then turned to me and said: 'Brother Woodruff, I want you to go, and if you do not you will die.' His words rested with mighty weight upon me when he spoke, and I have often thought since, in contemplation of the awful tragedy of his and Hyrum's martyrdom, how truly his words would have been verified had I remained.... I took the parting hand of Hyrum and Joseph at their own dwellings. Joseph stood in the entry of his door when I took his hand to bid him farewell.... As he took me by the hand, he said, 'Brother Woodruff, you are about to start upon your mission.' I answered, 'Yes.' He looked me steadily in the eye for a time without speaking a word; he looked as though he would penetrate my very soul, and at the same time seemed unspeakably sorrowful, as if weighed down bya foreboding of something dreadful. He finally spoke in a mournful voice, 'God bless you, Brother Woodruff; go in peace.'... Sad were the last months of the Prophet's life." (Page 205) "The Lord will not permit me or any other man to lead this people astray. If an Apostle does not magnify his calling, the Lord will remove him and not permit him to lead away the people." (Page 418) "Twenty-two years ago today, I drove the team which brought President Brigham Young from Emigration Canyon into this city. He lay upon a bed, sick in my carriage. As soon as his eyes rested upon the beautiful yet desert scene of the valley before us, he said: "This is the place; for the Lord has shown it to me in a vision.'" (Page 460) "There is one subject I wish to speak upon, and that is the keeping of a journal with respect to the dealings of God with us... But when the Prophet Joseph organized the Quorum of the Twelve, he counseled them to keep a history of their lives, and gave his reasons why they should do so. I have had this spirit and calling upon me since I first entered this Church. I made a record from the first sermon I heard, and from that day until now I have kept a daily journal, Whenever I heard Joseph Smith preach, teach, or prophesy, I always felt it my duty to write it; I felt uneasy and could not eat, drink, or sleep until I did write; and my mind has been so exercised upon this subject that when I heard Joseph Smith teach and had no pencil or paper, I would go home and sit down and write the whole sermon, almost word for word and sentence by sentence, as it was delivered, and when I had written it, it was taken from me; I remembered it no more. This was the gift of God to me." (Page 477) 1869?"Look at him (Joseph F. Smith), children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any man living. He will become the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I want you, every one of you, to remember what I have told you this morning." (Page 536) Joseph F. Smith became President of the Church in 1901. "Bishop Hunter said on several occasions that I would outlive President Taylor and become President of the Church. On these occasions, I rebuked the Bishop and asked him not to prophesy of me such a thing. Each time he answered, 'Nevertheless it is true, and will come to pass.' " (Page 560) 1897?"Live near to God; pray while young; learn to pray; learn to cultivate the Holy Spirit of God; link it to you and it will become a spirit of revelation unto you, inasmuch as you nourish it. I feel thankful myself that I have lived to see this day. I declare unto you that there are many in the flesh who will remain so until the coming of the Son of Man." (Page 603) LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION Lesson 5 Faith?A Power in the Life of Wilford Woodruff, the Great Evangelist (Tuesday, February 4, 1941) "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (John 1:47) WHEN Wilford Woodruff died in California on September 2, 1898, he had been a member of the Church for sixty-five years, an apostle for sixty years, and had presided over the destiny of the Church for eleven trying years. A study of the life of Wilford Woodruff reveals the extent to which the spirit of God guided, inspired, and protected the early leaders as they sought to establish the Kingdom of God among mortals. HIS CONVERSION. He first heard of the restoration of the Gospel at a meeting conducted by two Mormon missionaries in a schoolhouse near his farm in New York State. On the way to the meeting, he offered a silent prayer, asking that the Lord would make it known to him in some fashion if these men were really His servants or preachers of man-made doctrines. He listened attentively and critically to the message of the elders. At the conclusion of the preaching, an opportunity was given to ask questions or make comments concerning the discourses. Wilford arose and bore testimony to the assembled congregation that the statements of the missionaries were true, and that they were true servants of God. He urged his neighbors and friends to give the men a fair hearing, as the Lord had revealed to him that they were teaching the Gospel. Shortly afterward, on December 31, 1833, he was baptized. This testimony of the divinity of the latter-day work was not the product of an impetuous mind. It was based upon an intense faith in a living God who was able and willing to manifest His will to mortals, the power of fervent prayer, the spirit of discernment, and a keen sensitiveness to the inspiration of God. These characteristics, coupled with that of prophetic vision, moral and physical courage, a sense of historical accuracy, unfeigned humility, kindness, and tolerance were to be outstanding in his life during the ensuing years. MISSIONARY LABORS. In 1834, Wilford Woodruff had a strong desire to go as a missionary to preach the Gospel. Being of a retiring disposition, he did not make 782 this wish known to anyone in the Church, but went into a forest and secretly prayed God to open the way for him to realize this desire. Emerging from his place of solitary communion, he met Elias Higbee, a high priest, who said to him, "Brother Woodruff, the spirit of the Lord tells me that you should be ordained to go and preach the Gospel." Within a few days, he commenced a mission to the Southern States. This was but one of a number of missions he performed, all of which were attended by phenomenal success. During thirteen days, while laboring on the North and South Fox Islands off the coast of New England, he converted and baptized every member of two congregations except the ministers, and acquired, thereby, for the Church, the two chapels which the congregations owned. During his first mission to England, he baptized 1,800 souls in Herefordshire in eight months, thereby acquiring one chapel and forty-five licensed houses for preaching. Altogether, he traveled more than 175,000 miles and baptized approximately 2,000 souls during his public ministry. Historians rate him as one of the most successful missionaries of the last dispensation. A PIONEER. In Missouri, Illinois, and the Great Basin, he was actively engaged in pioneering. During the Utah period, he was active in educational, industrial, legislative, and agricultural work for the welfare of the people. Fundamentally, however, he loved the soil; and until near the end of his life he cultivated and managed a model farm, in the true sense of the word. He loved physical toil and said that to sweat was as much a divine command as to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 pray. He drew no distinctions between the temporal, physical, spiritual, and social phases of life. To him, religion and spirituality were inseparably connected with every phase of life. Physical toil he viewed as a boon to mankind and honest labor an essential for the development of character. HISTORIAN OF THE CHURCH. During sixty-two years of his life in the Church, President Woodruff wrote more than 7,000 pages of daily journals. These writings are more than mere diaries? they are primarily concerned with important events bearing upon the progress of the Restored Church. During his entire life, but especially prior to joining the Church, he was threatened with dangers that brought him near to death. He wrote of these experiences, "My life abounds in incidents which to me surely indicate the direct interposition of God, whom I firmly believe has guided my every step. On 27 distinct occasions I have been saved from dangers which threatened my life." Then he explained why he thought the powers of the adversary had been so set against his destruction and also the reason that he kept such accurate written accounts of contemporary events in these words: "I seem to be a marked victim of the adversary. I can find but one reason for this: the devil knew if I got into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, I would write a history of that Church and leave on record the works and teachings of the prophets, the apostles and elders. I have recorded nearly all the sermons and teachings that I ever heard from the Prophet Joseph.... Another reason I was moved LESSON DEPARTMENT upon to write in the early days was that nearly all the historians appointed in those times apostatized and took the journals (of Church History) away with them." In these words is an evidence of his profound testimony of the divinity of the latter-day Restoration. He knew that the Church was based upon the fundamentals of the Gospel of Christ restored through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith, and was kept functioning through continuous revelation and the leadership of the Priesthood. He sensed that contemporary recordings of events would vindicate historically for others what he knew to be true, and he labored untiringly to pass on to posterity this rich literary heritage. Truly has B. H. Roberts written: "The Church is indebted to these Journals for a reliable record of discourses and sayings of Joseph Smith?which but for him would have been lost forever." FAITH: A PRINCIPLE OF POWER AND ACTION IN HIS LIFE. President Woodruff's favorite hymn was "God Moves in a Mysterious Way." This composition had an especial appeal to him, as his life abounded in manifestations of God's guidance to him personally as well as to the Church and the Saints. His unwavering faith kept him attuned to the promptings of the Spirit to a remarkable degree. The well-known incident of his family's escape from death by a falling tree, in Indiana, in 1848, through moving his wagon from its resting place, is an evidence of this type of manifestation. He had great faith in prayer and did not hesitate to ask God to do the seemingly impossible. He records that on February 8, 1886, 783 he and Erastus Snow had gone to the Historian's office early in the morning for a secret meeting. Suddenly the building was surrounded by deputy marshals searching for the polygamous Church authorities. He observed them search the Gardo house to the east, and the President's office across the street to the north. Then he offered a silent prayer, asking the Lord to blind his enemies. Taking his hat, he left the building, walked past about twenty officers who were looking for him and crossed the street, where he got into a carriage and drove safely away. He was a man of vision and his journals record numerous dreams that were in the nature of visions. Many years before its completion, he dreamed that he would dedicate the Salt Lake Temple, although at the time his health was such that his life was despaired of and the Temple was far from completed. In 1893, at the age of 86, he was privileged to perform this rite. The incident of miraculous healings performed through the faith manifested in the silk handkerchief which the Prophet Joseph gave him as a token of authority, and the inspiration that led him to the United Brethren congregations in Herefordshire are further well-known incidents of this character. His great faith likewise manifested itself in his unwavering physical, mental, and moral courage. His journals record several incidents in which he knowingly walked into the arms of apparent death during his mission to the Southern States, 1834-1836. Throughout the more than four score and ten years that Wilford 784 Woodruff lived, his faith in God manifested itself in the complete consecration of his time and talents to the upbuilding of the Kingdom. This devotion to his ideal won for him a place as one of the greatest pioneers of the Intermountain West and of the world in modern times, as well as a place of leadership in the Church. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. List the characteristics of Wilford Woodruff's personality that give evidence of his great faith. 2. How do you account for the fact that he was so sensitive to the promptings of the Spirit? 3. How can you explain the fact that Wilford Woodruff bore testimony to the divinity of the message of "Mormonism" at the first meeting he attended? Topics for Study and Special Reports 1. Have someone give short reports on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 the following faith-promoting incidents from the life of Wilford Woodruff: a. His experiences with Mr. Akeman. (Printed in Leaves From My Journal) b. His escape from death beneath a falling tree. 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." 3. On November 5, 1896, President Woodruff changed the Fast Day from the first Thursday to the first Sunday of the month. Why was this change made? References John Henry Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 127-131; 227-230. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- 355. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 603-614. Wilford Woodruff, Leaves from My Journal. Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home No. 5 The Physical Preparation of the Home (Tuesday, February 4, 1941) "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the earth is a physical organization as well as a spiritual organization." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 260) AS it is in the Church, so it is in the home?the physical plays an important part and is closely connected with the spiritual. Thoughtful planning and careful management of the physical aspects can be an important factor in creating and encouraging the spiritual. Such things as having meals ready at the proper time, so they will not conflict or interfere with Priesthood activities of husband or sons, having clothing ready on week days as well as on Sundays, lend aid and encouragement to the performance of these duties. LESSON DEPARTMENT In accepting social engagements or in arranging social affairs, the wife should always consider that the husband's Church duties come first and should not be put aside for other things. The same standard could well be followed by girls and boys in the home. By her interest in the organization of her home and home activities, a mother may make her sons and daughters attach great importance to the Priesthood and to the responsibility of the family to help sustain and honor it. President Joseph F. Smith, in 785 speaking of the duties of wives and children, said that they "should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 360) Home Discussion Helps It is important in home planning that the really vital things should be kept foremost. Non-essentials that do not bear directly on the spiritual and physical wellbeing of the family are the things that should be neglected if anything must be. Work-and-Business NUTRITION Lesson 5 Dietary Reinforcements (Tuesday, February 11, 1941) YOUR body will make the best use of an adequate food supply if all of its parts are in good working order and if habits are healthful. The only way to know if your body is functioning correctly is through a health examination from a competent physician. This annual check-up is your best birthday present and may really insure you with "many happy returns of the day." This routine examination will usually discover any organic or functional disorder in its early stages, so that correction or treatment can be made before too serious damage takes place. Your thyroid gland controls the rate at which your body burns its food. If an examination shows an over-active thyroid, that may be the cause of an extreme underweight condition, regardless of the quality or quantity of food eaten. An under-active thyroid is one cause of excessive overweight. Other physiological disturbances will prevent your body from making the most efficient use of the food nutrients with which you supply it. Your doctor's examination will locate such disorders if they are present. Follow his suggestions for correcting any defects which he may find. Such an examination may give you the satisfaction of knowing that all parts of your body are functioning correctly. Your children need regular health examinations also. Protect 786 them against smallpox and other contagious diseases through vaccinations and inoculations. Good health habits are important dietary reinforcements. Serve your meals regularly, at the same time each day; allow not more than half an hour's variation from day to day. This regular meal schedule is important from infancy to old age. The babe whose activities come with a rhythmic regularity can develop a high state of nervous stability. The meal schedule for the very young members of the household, and sometimes for the very old ones, will need to come oftener than three times a day. Regardless of the number of meals, have them come at the same hour each day. An adequate diet served on a regular schedule must be eaten in an atmosphere of calm and leisure if normal digestion is to take place. Any emotional upset during or near the meal hour puts the brakes on the digestive machinery. Anger, fear, worry, hurry, or grief disturbs the appetite and prevents proper digestion of food. This happens to the small child as well as to the adult. Emotional stability increases one's digestive ability. Make the meal hour long enough so that food can be eaten leisurely. A proper balance between rest and exercise is another aid to good nutrition. Many children, and some adults, come to the table too tired to eat. A rest period just before the meal is good. Some people have too little activity to work up a normal appetite for food. More out-of-door exercise will help these people, provided there is no more serious cause of low appetite. Just at the time when young people are making their last heavy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 growth spurt, when they need more hours of sleep and rest than they did a year or two previously, they frequently get much less. The death rate from tuberculosis is gradually slowing down for the total population. However, its numbers are still on the increase for the late adolescent and early adult years. In 1907 it was the leading cause of death. By 1937, it had moved down to sixth place. It still is the leading cause of death among young persons, especially young women. Poor food habits combined with too little rest make these over-active adolescents an easy prey to this disease. Your body may starve for sleep and rest just as it may starve for food. Sleep is nature's restorer. Nature repairs worn-out tissues and builds new ones while you sleep. If the sleeping period is too short, normal growth and repair cannot take place. Have enough sleep with a regular bed-time hour each night, and see that conditions in your home are conducive to good sleep. Serve the heaviest meal of the day at noon, if possible. A heavy evening meal prevents good sleep, especially with children. Sleep on a comfortable bed with springs which do not sag. Sleep under light-weight bed covering. Woolen quilts or blankets are much lighter and warmer than are those made from cotton. Sleep in a dark, quiet room with windows open. Have separate beds for each child, if possible. Their sleep will be much more sound if they sleep alone. Do not let children sleep with adults. Close your tensions and worries out of the bedrooms. _ Relax and go to sleep. LESSON DEPARTMENT Relaxing Exercises Take time out in the early afternoon and get yourself relaxed with some of the following exercises: 1. Lie flat on the back with the arms stretched above the head, hands and feet on the floor. Stretch the body by pushing the heels down and the head and shoulders up. While the body is stretched, keep the shoulders flat but raise the right hip. Let the right hip down, then raise the left hip. Next keep the hips flat and raise first the right shoulder, then the left shoulder. Rest and relax all over. Repeat each step of the stretching and relaxing four or five times. The alternate stretching and relaxing reduces tension and stiffness. 2. Lie on back with legs stretched straight, heels down, with arms down at side of body. Lift the right arm and let it drop limply with the hand just above the head. Rest a 787 minute and let it drop down, perfectly relaxed, beside the body. Repeat with left arm. Continue six or eight times until all tension is removed from arms, back of neck, and shoulder joints. 3. Lie flat on back with small pillow under the head, with legs stretched straight. Put the hands back of the head and pull the head gently forward with a slow, steady pull. Release the hands and let the head drop on the pillow, as if it were a heavy weight. Repeat four or five times. References Guiding the Adolescent. Child Management. Why Sleep. Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. Keeping Fit Through Exercise, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Good Food Habits for Children, Bureau of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 5 The Tree of Liberty (Tuesday, February 18, 1941) LESSON TOPICS 1. Brief review 2. Historical characters 3. Fictional characters 4. Methods of character revelation 5. Study helps BRIEF REVIEW The last lesson considered the author's life and her particular contribution in The Tree of Liberty. This book aims to make us Americans aware of those strains and influences in our past which should help us to face more wisely our critical present and future. The two-fold significance of the book?historical and fictional?was mentioned, with a suggestion of the intellectual values which may be gained from the facts as well as the emotional value from the dramatic situations. A brief summary of the historical background and of the plot was given. HISTORICAL CHARACTERS Every novel has three essential elements: setting, characters and plot. Our chief interest often lies in the characters. Even if the author emphasizes one of the other elements, he ordinarily does it through the characters. We see the setting through its effect upon the characters, or their reaction to it. We realize the plot, of course, through the characters. The fact that some of the chief figures in The Tree of Liberty are historical adds to the interest in the book; for we see these men alive, in the very activities which gave them a place in history. Some one has said that history tells us what people did, but literature tells us how they felt, which is often more important. And so, in her restoration of the past, Miss Page lets us into the secret places of these great men's personalities, and we see the motives behind their actions, the dreams, the visions, and the courage which are a part of our American heritage. Space will not permit an analysis of these characters, but a few points may help us to see them in their fictionalized roles. Washington was one who helped to nurture the tree of liberty. Early in the book, we are made aware of the force of his character. He seems to be a man of destiny, for he impressed upon those who knew him, even when he was a young colonel in Braddock's Army, that he "was a great-natured man to hold fast to? a great strong man that sets his face to do a thing and will never give in, a man to follow to the day you die." It was this characterization of him by Matthew Howard's uncle that made him a lifelong hero to Matt. The impression was deepened when he first saw Washington (see Ch. I, pp. 32-35) and on various later occasions during the years that followed the Revolution. Once, when it seemed that the ideals Washington was fighting for were about to be lost, he gave a speech which we might listen to with profit today. The occasion was to consider an anonymous letter which had subtly condemned all that had been done, and suggested a return to subservience to England: "Let me conjure you as you value your honor, as you respect the rights of humanity, as you regard the national character of America, to express your utmost horror and detestation of the man who wishes to overthrow the liberties of our country, and who wickedly attempts to deluge our rising empire with blood. By thus determining you will give one more proof of unexampled patriotism and patient virtue, and you will by the dignity of your conduct afford occasion for posterity to say, "Had this day been wanting, the world had never seen the last stage of perfection to which human nature is capable of attaining.' " Others, like Washington, alive and warmly human, move majestically through the pages of the book. There is Patrick Henry, sometimes mistaken as to the rightness of his ideals, but never lacking in earnestness and eloquence. We can feel his magnetic power when a frontier admirer tells of a speech he had heard which shook the hearts of both his foes and friends with terror. 788 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 LESSON DEPARTMENT He told them of the calamity that would befall them if they failed to follow the lines he advocated: "Whilst he spoke the air hung still," old Zeb declared. "Seemed like he grew beyond the height of mortal man... And his eyes they stared beyond the bounds of life." We can picture him standing so, as he uttered his immortal words: "If we wish to be free we must fight.... The appeal to arms is all that is left to us.... We have no choice; it is too late to retire if we would.... Gentlemen cry peace! Peace! When there is no peace.... Is life so dear and peace so sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me Liberty or give me death!"; We see Hamilton, handsome, cultured, aristocratic, fighting for what he saw as right. An important figure in national life at twenty-two, he won many by his magnetic personality, his brilliancy of mind, his wit and gallantry. Miss Page tells us that: "Everything Hamilton did was done with an air. He met the older men who were his seniors in rank with just the right mingling of deference and dignity; he squired the ladies when they came to headquarters with deft gallantry which any fellow would long to copy, and he parried the thrusts of his particular friends on the staff with wit that never failed its mark." Opposite to Jefferson, he mistrusted the common people. According to his view, "They are fools certainly, most of them; but even fools need to be coerced along the path of honor." He admired England and felt that 789 she was great because she had a governing class of old families and moneyed men; and he felt that to be successful as a nation, America must pattern her government by England's. Jefferson is the most significant historical character in the novel. As the unwavering champion of democracy, he had such amazingly clear vision that his closest associates sometimes could not follow him. This was true of Matthew Howard, who almost worshipped Tom Jefferson from the day in his youth when Jefferson befriended him, a crude frontier lad fighting his way into a new school, and initiated him into a friendship pact that was broken only by death. A few excerpts from the book will point to some of Jefferson's characteristics. Speaking to Matthew's son, Peyton, who gave him the same loyalty that his father did, he said: "For men like us there are always two roads to follow. It makes action difficult and understanding easy. Perhaps our first object, then, should be understanding.... We are embarked on a tremendous experiment, this of setting up a government truly republican?for all men alike. There are those who say that men cannot be trusted to govern themselves. Far less, then, may they be trusted to govern their neighbors." (Jefferson's Inaugural Address, p. 864) Matthew said of him, "He was always thinking of liberty. I have it in mind he asked our schoolmaster before he was twelve if the right to liberty was not one which could never be taken from man." Once he said, "If we let it be known we are defending liberty wherever we 790 find it attacked, men of sober sense will flock to us." We see Jefferson not only as a politician and statesman, but as an affectionate husband and father, a saddened widower, and as one who followed a hobby. Above all, he is revealed as a gentleman of true nobility. Some of the many passages showing Jefferson's character are found on pages 157, 463, 550, 614, 788, and 951. FICTIONAL CHARACTERS The fictional characters are just as "real" as the historical ones. The chief objective of the novelist is to create an illusion of reality. He does this largely by making his people the kind we know in actual life. Who doesn't know a Matthew and a Jane Howard, both so strong in their convictions that they destroy their possibilities for happiness because they know no common ground between two extreme views of life. Just as it was fortunate for our nation that there were both a Hamilton and a Jefferson giving their lives to the care of the tree of liberty, each serving as a balance to the other, so it was fortunate for the descendants of Jane and Matthew that each gave allegiance to a different set of ideals. Without Jane's sense of culture, the need for beauty and order, and Matthew's pride in individual nobility wherever found, but particularly in the rough and rugged men and women willing to work and fight for what they thought was right, the second and third generations of Howards would have lacked the strength and charm so well fused to make them the kind of individuals they were. The sons, Peyton and James, are drawn as distinctly as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 their parents; and Mary, too, though her early death takes her from the latter half of the story. The loyalty of James and Peyton to each other, to their disagreeing parents, to their different types of leaders is the one characteristic they have in common. The twins of Peyton and Adrienne are interesting from childhood because of their quaint mixture of French and English characteristics. Tom's life, after the tragic death of his brother Adrien, fulfills somewhat the dreams of his grandfather. One interesting phase of the Howards' characters is their family loyalty and affection in spite of divergent political views and ways of life. Besides the immediate members of this central family, there are many other well-drawn characters: Adrienne's liberty-loving French father; Harriet, the aristocratic wife of James; Charlotte, the sweetheart of Adrien; George Martin, frontier husband of Mary; Zeb, the illiterate friend of Matthew; the servants at Elm Hill and Albemarle Hall. Each gives something to the reality and theme of the story. METHODS OF CHARACTERIZATION Novelists reveal their characters directly, by telling their reader what kind of men and women the characters are, or indirectly through what the characters themselves do and say?their attitudes, interests, and the reactions of other characters to them. Miss Page uses both methods. She has the power of the artist to tell much in single strokes of her pen. Peyton's suffering over his deformity is revealed through his habitual drawing of the club foot under his chair. Margaret's inherited sense LESSON DEPARTMENT of refinement is revealed in her love for the coverlet which had been her mother's and her desire to "fix up" the crude mountain cabin. Adrienne reveals her nationality through her sentence structure and quaint little phrases; such as, "madame, my mother," many of which she passed on to her boys. Matthew's frontier nature is kept strongly before us, too, by little manners of speech to which he reverts, particularly when he is excited. One of the chief values of a novel lies in the author's delineation of the intangible elements that make up character and personality. When we see what motives and influences make people what they are, we are able to understand our neighbors, our families, even ourselves better; and we have a deeper sympathy for all fellow beings. Study Helps 1. Give points from the book to show how your understanding of one of the his- 791 torical characters has been increased by the fictional treatment of the character. 2. Relate some incidents which bring out the chief characteristics of some of the created characters?Jane, Matthew, Peyton, etc. 3. Can you recognize some of your own prejudices or those of your friends in the characters of the novel? Does recognition of those prejudices, with their causes and consequences, help you to understand your own and point to ways of overcoming them? 4. Name the characters who remain unchanged by incidents in the story. Name one that changes during the progress of the story, and indicate the causes of character development. 5. Discuss some present-day situations and characters which are comparable to some of those in the book. 6. Discuss the outstanding characteristics of Jefferson and Hamilton. 7. Point out the contribution of these men to our present-day political systems. 8. Does history repeat itself? Illustrate. (Note: In case some of the organizations prefer to use but two instead of three books, an additional lesson could be given on the topics in this lesson. Study helps from 4 to 8 could be used.) Quotations from The Tree of Liberty, by Elizabeth Page, copyright 1939, are reprinted by permission of Farrar and Rinehart, Inc., Publishers. Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships Lesson 4 Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day (Tuesday, February 25, 1941) YES, there is some equality in the capital stock with which every human being begins life in this world. Twenty-four hours per day is the allotment of everyone, and not a single minute can be added or subtracted therefrom. The number of days which makes up the life of each one varies widely, but the difference in the degree of success attained by one as compared with another is determined by the quality of life rather 792 than the quantity. Raise the quality of the life of an individual just a little each day and the sum total of achievement is multiplied many fold. The difference in quality depends more upon the manner in which one uses his margin of time than upon the amount of time used in the routine of living. The use of a certain amount of time in the routine of living is determined for everyone by definite life needs. Comparatively little freedom is afforded one in the choice of activities involved in these routine phases of living. The budget based on the twenty-four hour unit conforms to about the following schedule: 8 hours sleep, 8 hours for vocational pursuits, 1? hours for eating?15 minutes for breakfast, 30 minutes for lunch, and 45 minutes for dinner (this is far more time than many people use for eating, but not more than they should use if they eat healthfully), 30 minutes for personal grooming, and one hour for miscellaneous needs?a total of 19 hours. Therefore, only five hours remain for one to use according to his choice. In so short a period, what can one accomplish that is worthwhile? Now, let us see according to this schedule how many so-called free hours one may have in a year: 5 hours per day for seven days, plus 8 hours released from vocational duties on Sunday, add up to 43 hours; 43 hours per week for 52 weeks add up to 2,236 hours per year, or 93 1/6 days or an average of 3 months. We do have time; but what do we do with it? One consoling speculation is the difference between time and money in regard to the saving aspect of each. In order to save money, we must put RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 it away somewhere and keep it; but in order to save time, we must spend it. Merely to "pass the time away" is a wicked use of time. It invites worry, self-pity, imaginary illnesses, general discontent, and many other harmful and vicious forms of mental indulgence. Abraham Cowley said, "There is no saying shocks me so much as that which I hear very often, 'that a man does not know how to pass his time.' It would have been but ill-spoken by Methuselah in the nine hundred and sixty-ninth year of his life." TO be a member of a successful family group is one of the most powerful safeguards against the misuse of time, because the time, energy, and ingenuity of every member of such a group is called upon to plan for successful family living on twenty-four hours a day. Training for family living on twenty-four hours a day should begin when the child is born. Those who have had this training and who habitually make use of it according to their ability, are in the best position to train the future generation. Fortunate, indeed, is the child who has been chosen to take up his abode as the offspring of parents who have learned the wise use of time. Let us turn our attention to some of the requisites for qualitative family living made possible when our daily plan of life is based on twenty-four hours, no more, no less. Should not our attitude toward the proper evaluation of time come first? Theophrastus, the Greek philosopher, declared that time was the most valuable thing that a man could spend. If this is true, then time is more valuable than money; LESSON DEPARTMENT and it must be true, since without time there would be no wealth of any sort. It was Plutarch who counseled, "Be ruled by time, the wisest counselor of all." A healthy attitude is: time is for you?you are not for time; for after all, the person is the ultimate unit of value. One may fritter time away just as one may fritter money away; and all too often, after one has wasted one hour, he continues to waste a good part of the next in regretting what he failed to do during the previous hour. Such a one may be encouraged by the thought that the next hour is waiting for him even though he may have squandered the last one. The earlier in life that a well-organized system of consistent habits is established for carrying on the numerous routine duties of daily life, the more time will be reserved for other interests. No parent should consider that time wasted which is spent in guiding and assisting his children in the formation of desirable habits. The lack of patience today robs one of time tomorrow. The lack of sufficient attention to details results in great waste of time. Probably, we should qualify that statement and say important details. The ability to differentiate between important and unimportant details in family life is one of the earmarks of a trained person. To make sure that one finds a needle that has been dropped on the rug is an important detail; to see that one finds a piece of thread that has been dropped on the rug is an unimportant detail. To decide whether a detail is important or unimportant, ask the question: "What will be the result?" 793 IN order to have time for living, one must know how much time is required for the regular routine duties in the home or in the office. It might be wise for the inexperienced homemaker to keep a daily record of the amount of time consumed in such tasks as preparing each meal, clearing away after the meal, telephoning, reading the newspaper, going to market, etc. If guests are invited for dinner, take time after the menu has been decided upon to estimate the amount of time needed for preparing each item, arranging the table, and so forth. Could we but know the quantity of time that is wasted every day because of that vast army of people who are always late for their appointments because they have no conception of the time element! Strange as it seems, we are prone to feel more free to exploit the time of those who are nearest and dearest to us than those who are strangers to us. Those who are nearest to us will understand, we say, and so we impose upon that understanding to the point of precipitating domestic discord. The husband who knows at four o'clock in the afternoon that it will be impossible for him to arrive home at the expected hour would save much time if only he would spend a few minutes on the telephone to inform his wife of the situation. To merely pass the time away idly waiting for someone or something expected is a common source of time leakage. The mother of four small children said recently that she could not afford to take time to plan when or how she was going to get things done, she simply had to get in and do them. That very afternoon she hurried home from an unplanned trip to town only to find that she had forgotten to purchase an article essential to the evening meal, so she immediately used up ten minutes getting her husband on the telephone to ask him to do the errand. This meant ten or fifteen minutes of his time wasted also. If every wife would spend enough time before she goes shopping to carefully plan what she is going for, how much money she can spend for each purchase, where she will be most likely to find what she wants, to make a note of size or measurements concerned, and allow for unexpected purchases, she will save money as well as time. She will not take the attitude that many a woman takes when she goes shopping?that she hopes she needs what she finds. Rather, she will take the attitude that she hopes she can find exactly what she needs. Now, the larger the family the greater is the need for both father and mother to spend more time organizing and planning family activities. This does not mean that daily living should be carried out always according to plans; plans made by people are for people and must be modified as the need arises to promote the welfare of people. Another aid to smooth-running family life is to spend a bit of time today in preparation for tomorrow. A half hour spent in the evening in anticipation of tomorrow morning's duties may serve as the oil to make the machinery of another day run without friction. If the machinery of family life starts off smoothly in the morning, the chances are much greater that it will continue so throughout the entire day. It seems queer that for ever so many years many families have selected Monday as the weekly laundry day. If any day is made easier as a result of preparation the night before it is "wash day." If Monday is the day selected, then Sunday evening must be spent in preparation for the activity; and there are so many possibilities for spending Sunday evening in a way that adds to the joy of family-group living. Why not experiment with some day other than Monday for laundry work and see if household duties would run more smoothly? A PERFECT recipe for the use of time is impossible to formulate. The degree of living must depend on the capacity of each individual to live. Therefore, each individual must face the reality of his own situation and decide on a happy medium as far as speed is concerned. He should not move so fast that he exploits his health and energy, nor so slow that he wastes his time. Allow time for the most important things first. The person who attempts to do more each day than his time and energy will permit is usually rushing about from early morning until night, wasting much time because of a lack of well-worked-out plans and preparation. On the other hand, the person who spends part of his time in organizing the use of his time, who knows his own capacity and his own life well enough to know how much he should accomplish each twenty-four hours, and who functions consistently, is usually the one who exemplifies from 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 LESSON DEPARTMENT hour to hour and from day to day the wise expenditure of time. Lin Yutang says in The Importance of Living, "Besides the noble art of getting things done there is the noble art of leaving things undone. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials, and of finding contentment in those things closest to us?the enjoyment of the home, of everyday living, and of nature." The smaller the margin of time a person has in which he may exercise freedom of choice, the more precious and sacred that time is, and the greater is his responsibility to guide the spending of that time. Every person who admits that he has no time for the family is relegating the family to the group of unimportant things of life. In the truly democratic family a generous share of the time of each member is actually spent for the welfare of the group. In a family of six, if each member would spend just one of his marginal hours each day for the enrichment of his family-group life, there would be six hours every day spent in promoting the interests of that particular family. If every Latter-day Saint would adopt such a practice, the quality of family life would be so greatly enhanced that our family life would stand out as an example for all the world to follow. 795 Questions and Problems 1. Make a list of ten habits that children should form which would facilitate the wise spending of time. 2. Keep an accurate record for one week of the time wasted in your family as a result of one member keeping other members waiting. In each case, how might it have been avoided? 3. Consider a family group of five members, consisting of a father, mother, a daughter age 8, one son age 12, and one son age 16, and suggest specific contributions each may make to family living by spending one hour per day for enhancing the joy of family living. 4. Give examples taken from your own observation of families in which the father or mother, or both, spend an undue amount of time in activities outside of the home: State specifically how different members of the family are affected. Do not reveal names of families. References The Use of the Margin, Edward Howard Griggs. How to Live on Twenty-four Hours a Day, Arnold Bennett, Section One, "How to Live." Living With Our Children, Lillian M. Gilbreth, Chap. 5. Readers Digest, March, 1940, "The Fun of Being Normal," Edith M. Stern. Readers Digest, June, 1936, "An American Home," Della T. Lutes. American Home, March, 1940, "Mother, Why Don't We Have Fun Any More," Adeline Bullock. Parents Magazine, March, 1937, "Stepping Out as a Family," Helen E. Hanford. THE TRUEST GREATNESS "After all, to do well those things which God ordained to be the common lot of all mankind, is the truest greatness. To be a successful father or a successful mother is greater than to be a successful general or a successful statesman."?Gospel Doctrine, President Joseph F. Smith. Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XIV The Twelve Apostles Lead the Church (Tuesday, February 18, 1941) REALLY, it was not Joseph Smith that the mob wanted when they killed him, but the cause which he stood for and directed. This is clearly shown in what followed the great silence, of which mention was made in a previous lesson. The murderers were never punished by the law. They were arrested it is true, and tried in a sort of way, for everybody knew who they were. But the trial was a farce. Men who sympathized with the murderers, armed with rifles and pistols, filled the courthouse and threatened the prosecuting attorneys, the witnesses for them, the jury, and even the judge. It was a public scandal. Of course, the verdict was, "Not guilty." Everyone knew what it would be beforehand. The enemies of the Saints, for that is what they were, lay low for a while. They were waiting to see what would happen. They fully expected that Mormonism would go to pieces, that the members of the Church would leave Illinois forever. Then the state would be rid of the Faith. But imagine their surprise when they saw what was actually taking place. Nauvoo went on as before. Indeed, more Latter-day Saints came off the boats from down the river. They had arrived from England. Others came from the States and Canada. Instead of getting smaller, Nauvoo was getting larger every month. Then, too, new industries were starting, to give employment to the newcomers, and the Temple continued to be built?faster, in fact, than when the Prophet was alive. The non-Mormons in Illinois saw then, for the first time, that in place of the one head they had cut off, twelve heads had taken its place. Then they got busy again. FIRST, the Nauvoo Charter was repealed. This left the city without a government other than that of the county, and we know what that was. There was no more Legion, there were no more city courts. It was as if the people of Illinois wanted to leave the citizens of Nauvoo a prey to the lawless. Later, meetings were held in various parts of the county by "indignant" non-Mormons, to protest against the Saints remaining in the county. And in order to make their protests look better, they actually set fire to places that belonged to themselves and charged the crime to the Mormons. This seems unbelievable, but there is plenty of evidence to show that it was a fact. In this way, a strong feeling was aroused against the Mormons in Illinois. The Church leaders also called meetings of their own people, to lay the facts before the people of the county. They chose missionaries to lay their case before some of the more reasonable men in the state. It did no good, however, and LESSON DEPARTMENT so they had to agree to leave Illinois. Such men as Senator Douglas and Governor Ford advised them to go farther west, to Oregon. MEANTIME, work was hurried on the Temple. In a revelation, through the Prophet, the Saints had been told that they must build this Temple, so that they might receive their endowments. That is, that they might do work for their dead and also do their own sealings among the living. If they did not do this, they should be "rejected" by the Lord. That is why they hurried to finish the Temple before they left Nauvoo. This haste to finish it was misunderstood by the non-Mormons as a determination to remain. But the Saints had decided to go when "grass began to grow and water to run" in the spring. The leaders knew where they were going. They would go where the Prophet had designed to take his people before his death. The place he had chosen was the Rocky Mountains, fifteen hundred miles to the west. There were no settlers in those valleys, none to "molest or make afraid." Joseph had sent men to Washington, D. C., for the purpose of obtaining the consent of the Congress to make the move. But the Congress was not interested. Then, too, the men sent to the Capitol had also studied books and maps about the West. So the Prophet, and later Brigham Young, knew a good deal about the country to which they were going to lead their people, and also the best route there. LONG before the grass began to grow and the waters to run the Saints were off. But not before they 797 had finished the Temple far enough to get their endowments and do much work for their dead. Early in February, their teams and wagons crossed the river on the ice. From that time on until all had left Nauvoo there was an almost steady stream of covered wagons going over the Mississippi?at first on the ice and then in boats and rafts. The first wagons stayed for a few days on Sugar Creek about nine miles out from Nauvoo. Here there was a grove of trees, where they encamped. It had snowed just before this. Brushing away the snow, they pitched their tents in almost freezing weather. The first night, with a falling thermometer, nine babies were born.. The earlier days of the trek were distressing in the extreme. Snow lay on the earth to the depth of six or eight inches at first. At the camping grounds there was little else than slush and snow. Men, women, and children were often forced to sleep on corn stalks or tree branches laid on the wet earth. Later the rains came, to make matters worse. Teams had to be doubled up. Wagons broke down. Sometimes a double team could not pull a wagon down hill, so heavy was the mud. A fire under these circumstances was all but impossible on the prairie. At two places between the Mississippi and the Missouri rivers, the men stopped long enough to make a temporary town. At Garden Grove, for instance, they plowed the ground, planted it in wheat, potatoes, and other things, fenced it in, built log houses, and then left it for those who were to follow to take care of and to reap the crops. This was fine teamwork. At Mount Pisgah, farther on, they did the same thing. Only here they established a town of considerable size, since it was nearer their destination for the time being. When the first companies reached the Missouri River, they camped at Council Bluffs. Here they established another town, the main town in this part of Iowa. Presently, many of them crossed the stream into Nebraska, where they made another town?Winter Quarters. In these two places and smaller places along the river and out a little way from it, the Mormon people lived till they found their new home in the West. Before making these settlements, however, the Church authorities obtained permission of the governor of Iowa to live there for a time. They had to make peace, also, with the Indians?which was not always an easy thing to do in those times; for the natives were beginning to feel that the white men were their enemies, and they wanted to drive them off their hunting grounds. But the Saints got along with the red men better than most other people, because of their friendliness for these persecuted folk. In a little while, a county government was established in western Iowa, mainly for the Saints. They took part in politics, they published a paper, they raised crops, and they lived on good terms with everyone to the east. Meantime, all the Mormons left Nauvoo for the prairie. QUESTIONS 1. Why were the non-Mormons not satisfied with the death of the Prophet? 2. Why did they want to have the Saints leave Illinois? Where did the Saints propose to go? Why there? 3. Who began the inquiry about the West? Why did he wish to go there? 4. Why did the Saints want to finish the Temple? What benefit did they derive from it? 5. Why did the Saints suffer like this? What had they to gain? To lose? Describe the journey to the Missouri River. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons. ? ERRATUM HE Church History lesson, No. XIII, "Who Shall Take the Prophet's Place," published in the October issue of the Magazine, stated that Mrs. Mary Field Garner, who was a witness of the transformation of Brigham Young's voice to that of the voice of the Prophet, had died in 1938, not far from Salt Lake. Sister Garner, now 104 years of age, lives with her daughter-in-law at Roy, Utah. She is in good health, looking much younger than her years. On September 22, 1940, she was among those over 100 years of age who were honored by being presented with a special badge by the Old-Folks Central Committee, of which Presiding Bishop Le Grand - Richards is chairman. 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER, 1940 Give BOOKS For Christmas "There is a peculiar dignity attached to the gift of a Book that is in no way affected by its price." We have the largest stock of Books in the Intermountain West?fiction, non-fiction, biography, travel books, standard works, L. D. S. Church Literature, etc. SPECIAL New EDITION Just off the Press "A Voice From the Dust" A sacred history of Ancient Americans Edited and arranged by GENET BINGHAM DEE @ Price $2.50 Postage Prepaid OTHER TIMELY NEW BOOKS FOR L. 0. 5. Ww, HUME LIBRARIES Cumorah's Gold Bible....$2.25 E. Cecil McGavin One Who Was Valiant...$3.00 Clarissa Young Spencer Hello Life (New Edition)__......$1.50 Elsie Talmage Brandley Unto The Hills...$1.50 Richard L. Evans For This My Glory...$2.50 Paul Bailey His Many Mansions...$2.50 Rulon S. Howells Gospel Doctrine (New Ed.)_..$2.50 Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith MAKE THIS FRIENDLY BOOK STORE YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING CENTER Besides BOOKS, of all kinds, we have a great variety of other Gift Articles?in fact, this is "the Store of a thousand gifts." Chromium, Brass, Copperware, Glassware, Pottery, Book Ends, Gift Stationery, Fountain Pens and Pencils, Electric Clocks, Games, Christmas Wrappings and Seals, Moving Picture Cameras, Portable Typewriters, Radios, Greeting Cards. And a Marvelous Assortment of Personalized Christmas Cards DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah Phone 3-4591 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Tiny shoes for today's tiny feet. But some tomorrow these tiny feet must stand in big - shoes?IMPORTANT SHOES?in important places. How necessary, therefore, that he be adequately trained and prepared to compete successfully in a world that daily fixes a higher premium on skill and technical knowledge. Make his future secure. A FUTURE GUARANTEED The Outcome, Of a Beneficial income BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE (Him Our COMPANY = Home OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT  The evergreen?an emblem of undying beauty and strength?is now regarded as the great World Tree, Yggdrasil, to which the Northmen, according to legend, likened the sunrise and the world hundreds of years ago. To us, the life and beauty of the evergreen are symbolical of the ever living, ennobling philosophies of Jesus, which are as glorious, far-reaching and everlasting as the sun, or world, appeared to be to the Northmen. Today, brightening our Christmas firesides with its tinseled branches, the evergreen stands as a talisman?magic with the quaintness of this old belief and resplendent with the glory of the message, just as old, yet ever new, which is revivified in our minds this Christmas season.?R. J. She Frontispiece Of Such Is The Kingdom, the frontispiece picture of this issue of the Magazine. Is a copy of a bas-relief plaque, the work of Alice Morrey Bailey, a local artist who frequently contributes poetry, prose and fiction to the Magazine. This plaque won first prize in the amateur section of the Fine Arts Department at the 1940 Utah State Fair. This is the fourth consecutive year that the work of this gifted young woman has received recognition at the State Fair. During the month of December, Of Such Is The Kingdom will be displayed at the invitational art exhibit to be held at the University of Utah. Prior to that time, it will be on display at the Z. C. M. I. Tea room. Mrs. Bailey feels that there is a pronounced need for artists to portray religious subjects; that religious subjects open the widest field to the present-day artist. The poem 'The Children of Jerusalem'' appearing on the back of the frontispiece is also the work of Mrs. Bailey. Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God. ?Matthew 5:9. LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Phone 4-9126 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 