There would be no wars or poverty if mothers had their choice. Nor need there be, | if we had the foresight to avert at the start } the things which ultimately lead to these dread straits. It is not always possible to protect your children against the horrors of war, but providing them with the ability to succeed in the battles of life is your job. How important, therefore, that your life insurance program provides the funds to equip them with an adequate education and reserves to cope with life's economic problems. Let us show you how.
Salt Lake City, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY
The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can be a tremendous force in the lives of those you love. Through the magazine you can say things to your sons and daughters who have never learned to appreciate the gospel, that you may never have the opportunity to say in any other way. Let the magazine be one of your missionary agents.
Gndex. To. Advertisors.
The Fisher Master Bakers
L. D. S. Business College
Temple Burial Clothes
Deseret Mortuary
Utah Power & Light
Deseret Book Co.
Deseret News Press.
75
75
75
Inside Back Cover
Inside Back Cover
Inside Back Cover
Back Cover
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MORE THAN 40,000 SUBSCRIBERS:
Fisher's DUTCH BREA Is Becoming A Popular Favorite
Your Grocer Has It
A Product of THE FISHER MASTER BAKERS
(THE LD.S. BUSINESS COLLEGE is SECOND TO NONE mn
Equipment Buildings Faculty Employment Service
It's the Right School for Your Commercial Education
Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information"
L.D.S. Business College SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
(TEMPLE BURIAL CLOTHES)
TEMPLE CLOTHES for WOMEN complete for as little as $8.10 except shoes.
For MEN complete for as little as $6.10 except shoes.
BURIAL CLOTHES for MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN.
General Board Relief Society 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City
a Ss aa,
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII FEBRUARY, 1940 No. 2
Contents
Special Features Louise Y. Robison F' Kate M. Barker 77
Kate M. Barker Belle S. Spafford 81
Julia A. F, Lund x Annie Wells Cannon 84
Woman as an Interpreter of the Faith Maude B. Jacob 87
An Anniversary Significant to "Everymember" Rae B. Barker 101
Fiction "And Ye Shall Inherit the Earth" Beatrice R. Parsons 91
Wanted—A Haven Grace A. Cooper 103
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 4) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 116
General Features The Sunny Side of the Hill Lella Marler Hoggan 98
A Way OF Life Leone G. Layton 107
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 109
Editorial: Retiring General Board Members 110
Notes to the Field: Change in Relief Society Annual Stake Conventions — 113
New Cantata by B. Cecil Gates 13
Letter of Thanks —...... 114
Relief Society and Social Welfare 122
Notes from the Field: Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary 123
Music Department—The Emotional Content of Music and Its Effect Upon Dynamics: Wade N. Stephens 125
Lessons Theology—Paul the Writer 126
Messages to the Home—Unselfishness 130
Literature—''The Bent Twig" 130
Social Service—Psychology of Happy Living 134
Family Relationships—My Home is My Refuge 139
Mission—The Church Moves West 142
Poetry Give of Thyself Hortense Spencer Andersen go
How Could I Know? Anna Prince Redd 97
Hidden Song Marguerite B. Harris 100
For Feet Must Follow Eva Willes Wangsgaard 102
Lincoln --Mabel Jones 115
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will he missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at specia] rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Should accompany manuscripts for their return.

THE COVER THE cover, "Washington's Farewell to His Mother', by Farris, shows the General on his knees beside his mother's chair. It was on the eve of his departure for his inauguration as President of the United States of America, The pen picture follows: "He must leave for New York on the morrow. He had galloped up from Mount Vernon to snatch an hour with the woman he revered as much in weakness and old age as when her will had over-ruled the boy's plan of a career. He found her in 'the chamber', alert in mind and serene of spirit, but so altered in appearance that his heart misgave him. Concealing his dreads, he began to speak cheerfully of his intention, as soon as public business could be disposed of, to return to Virginia and see her again. She stayed him there with steady voice and feeble hand. "This would be their last meeting in this life, she said. She was old... She would not be long for this world. She trusted in God that she was somewhat prepared for a better. Then laying the wasted hand upon the head bowed to her shoulder, she told him that heaven's and his mother's blessing would always be with him... As he stooped for a parting embrace, she felt him slip a purse into her hand. She put it back, raising her head with the old-time pride. "I don't need it!' she said... 'My wants are few.'... Time passed, but he lingered to plead tenderly, 'Whether you think you need it or not-—for my sake, Mother!' " Louise Y. Robison 

Vol. XXVII FEBRUARY, 1940 No. 2 Louise Y. Robison General President of the National Woman's Relief Society?1928-1939 By Kate M. Barker 66 OT until in the midst of work to be done, a man has said, "This is my task'; not until in the face of a problem has he said, "This is my opportunity'; not until in the great field of life, which is the field of religion, he has said, "This is my cause', has his soul come to life." This quotation was used by Sister Robison in one of her lovely talks at a Relief Society Conference, and it seems to me the words "soul come to life" describe her own radiant personality. Fortunate are the people and the cause who have such a leader! I think our Father in Heaven must receive a great deal of joy from a worker like Louise Y. Robison?one who accepts a call to service as an opportunity, one who accepts with joy and puts her whole heart and soul into the work, one who never counts the time or effort required, one who no matter how many calls are made, how many meetings there are to attend, responds as though the greatest joy and privilege that could come to one has come to her. No matter how strenuous the day has been or the lateness of the hour, as long as there is a service to render she never seems tired but answers each with head high and eyes sparkling and with a sweet humility which keeps her very close to her Father in Heaven. Her absolute testimony of the Gospel, her unusual love of God and of fellow men have made her a leader whose work even in the smallest detail has never become routine but has had a zest to it that has at all times enabled her to give her best. Sister Robison was called to be General President of the Relief Society just prior to the depression in 1929. Since then, there have been so many aching hearts, so many discouraged mothers, so many near the breaking point, so many whose faith has begun to weaken. Her office in the General Board rooms has been a home where all who needed her could come for help. Invariably, those who came to open their hearts to her went away encouraged, feeling stronger to meet their problems. Truly, she has "the understanding heart". We who have worked close to her have always marveled at her vitality, at her great spirituality, her great strength, and at her power to give the human touch. It is rare when one who has such great spiritual sensitiveness has also 78 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE practical strength, which makes for capability in managing the business side of the work. The office work has been efficiently conducted; she was manager of the Burial Clothes Department and of the Magazine, both of which are on a sound basis financially. All has been so quietly handled that those who came to the office failed to realize the complexity of the business phase of the work and felt, rather, the predominance of the spiritual. Relief Society stake presidents and all Relief Society workers have felt free to come to the office and talk over their problems with Sister Robison, knowing that they would be made welcome and could talk with one who understood, one who appreciated their strength and their work. Many expressions of appreciation have come from stake presidents. The following is typical: "We could get so close to you and feel you were close to us." It has been inspiring to see the marvelous response of all the stakes and wards to her leadership. Nothing was ever asked which did not receive immediate attention. N the eleven years in which she has been leader, great progress has been made in the Relief Society organization. In 1933, a monument was erected in Nauvoo, commemorating the organization of Relief Society there in 1842. This was a source of pleasure to Sister Robison, for it tied our organization to the Prophet Joseph and his wife and made one unit of Relief Society from the beginning. When in Europe in 1934 she visited some of the missions, and with her fine sensitiveness to the feelings of others she sensed their feeling of being by themselves, far away from the center of the Church; immediately upon her return she began, as she always did, to meet the need through a monthly bulletin. That all the women of the Church should have opportunities for culture and service has always been the desire of Sister Robison. Early in her administration, a combined chorus from the Salt Lake Stake was organized and called the "Singing Mothers". Today in practically every mission and stake in the Church there are groups of Singing Mothers. The high standard of the educational work of Relief Society has been maintained, with emphasis being placed on application to daily life. Quoting Sister Robison: "We must be sure that we are developing character as well as culture." She believes that a woman's greatest mission is that of mother and homemaker, and courses in home beautification, sanitation, nutrition and child guidance have been stressed. In 1938, a new course, "Education For Family Life", was started. Sister Robison has been very enthusiastic about this course. She was reared in an ideal Latterday Saint home, a home where there was love and tender care, where a child had the finest of opportunities for spiritual and cultural development. Her mother, Elizabeth F. Yates, was for twenty-one years president of the Millard Stake Relief Society. Her father, Thomas Yates, was bishop of the Scipio Ward. She is the mother of six children: Dr. Harold Robison, a_ successful physician of Los Angeles, Rulon Robison, one of the outstanding RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 79 musicians of Boston, and four lovely daughters, Florence, Winifred, Gladys and Dorothy, who are making happy homes of their own. The loyalty, the love, the companionship, the enjoyment of each other which her family group has is evidence of the home life she and Brother Robison made when they were all together. The welfare work and Welfare Department have been under Sister Robison's direct supervision. There has been maintained the closest cooperation with the Public Health Nurses, the State Board of Health and all agencies interested in welfare work. The Welfare Department has grown and is giving wonderful service to the bishops of the Salt Lake Region. She has always been especially solicitous for little children and the aged. That any child should be cold or hungry or have to go through life handicapped because of lack of dental or medical care is to her unbearable. So her plea has always been that ward presidents increase their charity fund and meet these needs, that if they could not, to let her know and somehow the needed money would be secured. Because of her great interest and outstanding work, when the State Board of Public Welfare was organized she was asked by Governor Blood to be a member of that board. Following is an expression of appreciation from him: "When the State Department of Public Welfare was created, it appeared both desirable and wise that one of the six appointive board members should be a woman. It was necessary that the woman chosen have intelligence, poise, understanding of social problems on a statewide basis, sympathy for the needs of people and a recognition of the financial burdens placed on taxpayers by welfare programs. In short, the person selected must possess an unusual combination of talent and experience. In Mrs. Louise Y. Robison I found a person who possessed in a high degree the required qualifications and whose sense of duty persuaded her to accept the ' difficult, self-sacrificing and, at times, even thankless obligations of a member of the State Board of Public Welfare. "In the past five years I have had opportunity to become acquainted with, and have many times acknowledged, the superior attainments of Mrs. Robison. Her long service in the work of the Relief Society was a preparation of the greatest worth in taking up this task. As a Board Member, she has been faithful in attendance, wise in counsel, excellent in judgment, and in every way helpful to her fellow members. "As Governor of the State of Utah, and as Chairman of the State Board of Public Welfare, I acknowledge the services she has rendered, and in this I am joined by all members of the Board." She has been a member of the Travelers Aid Board as well as of the Board of Visiting Nurses. In 1939, a conference was called by President Roosevelt to study "Children in a Democracy". Again her worth was recognized by the Governor, and she was appointed Utah's representative to this conference. The qualities which we all appreciate and which have made her the admired leader of the women of the Church have been recognized by the national and international leaders of women. At the World Conference of Women in 1933 held in Chicago she was asked to preside at one of the meetings. We who have gloried in her poise, in her graciousness as a presiding officer, can know how she brought honor to herself and her organization at this time. 80 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In 1934, she attended the meeting of the International Council of Women in Paris, France, being one of nine American women chosen as delegates by the National Council. She was appointed on the Committee of Single Moral Standards where she was asked to report the work of the Relief Society and the standards of the Latter-day Saint Church. She is a life member of the National Council of Women. The following is taken from a letter from Lena Madesin Phillips, formerly president of the National Council of Women: "You were a_ great source of satisfaction and help to us. I particularly count upon your sound judgment, your vision and your fine cooperative spirit." When the Church Welfare Plan was announced, Sister Robison was enthusiastic and ever since has been a most ardent worker for the Plan. She has been advisor to the Church Welfare Committee, a member of the Deseret Industries Committee, has presided at the Relief Society department in the Salt Lake regional meetings, and for some time went to the Ogden regional meetings. Her great desire has been that Relief Society women meet their responsibilities in the Plan. How wonderfully the women responded is shown in the work they have done. In response to the plea of the General Authorities that people be helped to help themselves, "Mormon Handicraft" was started. Sister Robison has the vision of what this project may become, not only in giving women an opportunity of staying in the home and yet supplementing the family income but also in the spiritual and cultural values which come to those who create beauty. The Church Welfare Program and those who are guiding it have had no more active, loyal supporter. The following is an expression of appreciation from the Presiding Bishopric: "Among the men and women with whom we are privileged to work there are some we would call Kings and Queens because of the motives and methods of their lives. In this group we would include Sister Louise Y. Robison. To know her is to love and honor her. As advisors to the Relief Society, it has been our privilege to meet weekly with Sister Robison and her Counselors, and we have come to know her for her real worth. "Her charming, queenly ways have endeared her to the Latter-day Saints and others throughout the world wherever she has gone in discharge of her great responsibility as President of the National Woman's Relief Society. "Sister Robison shall never be forgotten, for her teachings to the women of the Church have come from a rich, warm understanding of the needs of our Heavenly Father's children, touched with a deep spirituality which is the reward of diligently seeking the Father's will and words. "She truly has been about her Father's business, feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, comforting the widow and fatherless and freely giving of her love and kindness. "We extend to her our love and blessings." All who know Sister Robison will recall her loyalty, her friendliness, her keen sense of humor, her ready wit and delightful way of expressing it, her charm, her spirituality. There are leaders whom we tespect because of their strength of character; there are leaders whom we admire because of outstanding ability; Sister Robison is a leader whom we respect and admire and whom we love. "No leader has been more greatly loved, and few so loved." Kate M. Barker General Board Member 1929-1935, Counselor to President Louise Y. Robison 1935-1939 By Belle S. Spafford O serve a cause dear to one and I to serve effectively bring joy and satisfaction. Such has been the experience of Kate Montgomery Barker in her Relief Society activities. Always ready and willing to go wherever needed, sparing no personal effort, giving unstintingly of herself and her time, Sister Barker has advanced the work of Relief Society and endeared herself to Relief Society membership everywhere. Sister Barker came to the General Board from the Liberty Stake Board where she served as Theological class leader. Having had opportunities for travel and education privileged to few, she brought to the position many qualifications which have enabled her to serve with efficiency. The wife of James L. Barker, head of the Modern Language Department of the University of Utah, she has been closely connected with university circles and has taken advantage of the many educational opportunities thus afforded her. With her husband she spent a number of years in Europe where she studied at the Universities of Neuchatel and Paris. Her experiences in Europe gave her breadth of vision and an understanding of people that have been very valuable in her work as a Relief Society leader. In April, 1935, when called to be counselor to President Louise Y. Robison, it was but natural to assign to her as her special division of responsibility the educational work of the Society. Her rich educational background, her knowledge of teaching technique and her keen appreciation of the great opportunities of the Organization to elevate and advance the women of the Church through its educational program made her influential in maintaining well chosen courses of study and in improving teaching standards generally. Sister Barker has been alert to the educational interests and needs of women, and has worked intimately with the various educational committees of the General Board, suggesting, counseling and directing. | She has been tireless in her efforts to aid stake and ward class leaders through class leader departments at Conference-Conventions and through providing special lesson outlines, most of which she has prepared herself. The response from the stakes indicate the appreciation of class leaders for the assistance given. PERHAPS no phase of Relief Society work has challenged the interest and ability of Sister Barker more than Mormon Handicraft. While traveling abroad, her innate love of beauty and fine workmanship drew her frequently to the little European gift shops displaying the world's finest handicrafts. She spent hours chatting with interesting people, learning the importance of creative work in the life of the average individual. She saw the joy that comes when creative hands make objects of daily use beautiful. When 82 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE KATE M. "Mormon Handicraft" was conceived, she recognized the fact that within our Church are to be found the culture and skills of all nations; she appreciated the potentialities for developing a great handicraft movement. The ideals that have guided Mormon Handicraft under her direc- ? BARKER tion as chairman of the Mormon Handicraft Committee have been to preserve the skills of our people, to stimulate distinctive creative work as a form of self-expression and a source of individual happiness, to encourage the production of articles of such perfection of workmanship that they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 83 would have enduring worth, and at the same time to provide a means whereby articles might be offered to the public in a practical way. Mormon Handicraft has increased the joy, renewed the courage, and supplemented the incomes of women without taking them from their homes. While directly responsible for the educational work of the Society, Sister Barker has also been active in the welfare program. Her tender nature has made her sympathetic toward the problems of humankind. In 1938, she represented the Relief Society at the National Conference of Social Work. Her keen intellect, her measured judgment, her breadth of vision have made her a valuable member of the Church Welfare Committee. She has also been a member of the Deseret Clothing Committee. Sister Barker has been intensely interested in the Alcohol Education program of the Church, serving as a member of the General Church Committee. She has been active in many movements for the welfare and cultural development of women, having been a member of the first State Cancer Control Committee, the University Women, and the Ladies' Literary Club; at the present time she is an active member of the Authors' Club. During her incumbency as a member of the General Board, Sister Barker has traveled extensively among the stakes and missions of the Church. Her interest has been equally great in all wards and branches. Her spirituality, humility, and earnest desire to promote the welfare of the women of the Church has been felt wherever she has visited. She has a strong testimony of the Gospel based upon an intelligent understanding of its principles. In the class room and from the pulpit she has taught the Gospel with clarity and conviction. Her testimony has strengthened the testimony of many. Her public addr?sses have been full of workable suggestions as well as being inspirational and uplifting. For over two and one-half years she prepared monthly bulletins for the missions, interpreting the work of Relief Society. Though endowed with unusual native ability strengthened by extensive training, every assignment has meant to her careful and intensive immediate preparation. With all her Church activity, Sister Barker has neglected no side of her home life. Indebted to her father, Nathaniel Montgomery, for her keen intellect, sound judgment and pronounced loyalties, she owes to her mother, Nancy Clark Montgomery, her love of home and her homemaking inclinations. An ideal wife and mother, the Barker home is noted for its spirit of unity. The Barkers work together and play together. Professor Barker, Nance, Margaret and James have wholeheartedly supported Sister Barker in all of her Relief Society activities. As leader, teacher, friend, Sister Barker's contributions to the strength of Relief Society have been of inestimable worth. Julia A. Farnsworth Lund General Secretary-Treasurer of the Relief Society?1928-1939 By Annie Wells Cannon her duties in the Relief Society as a member of the General Board and from the office of secretary-treasurer, hosts of friends and admirers join in love and good will toward her with a heartfelt desire for her future success and happiness. No office in a great organization is in such touch with its membership as that of executive secretary. The office of secretary of the Relief Society, being executive as well as clerical, holds many responsibilities. It has always been filled by outstanding women, all of whom have had great influence in the functioning of the Organization. Mrs. Julia Lund has graced this high calling with the dignity and devotion of her predecessors. She became a member of the General Relief Society Board under the presidency of Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams in 1921 and was chosen to be secretary-treasurer by President Louise Y. Robison in 1928. One of her first duties as secretary was to open a box of documents which had been sealed and placed with the Church Historian fifty years earlier by Secretary Sarah M. Kimball. On that occasion, Mrs, Lund expressed a wish, as fervent as a prayer, that she might emulate the example of the great women who had preceded her. This she has aimed to do throughout her years of service. Julia Farnsworth Lund unites in A S Mrs. Julia Lund retires from ? herself a wealth of tradition and environment which give her a distinctive personality in any station or place. She has a goodly heritage, descended from a line of early Americans who helped establish our great Republic both as soldiers and statesmen. Julia was born in Beaver City, Utah, December 2, 1874, the eldest daughter of Philo T. And Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth. She was a beautiful and gifted girl, and even as a child gave evidence of the fine qualities that have so marked her as an intellectual and social leader. In early years she had the opportunity of assisting her mother in the entertainment of many men and women of note, among whom might be mentioned Colonel Thomas _L. Kane and General Philip H. Sheridan of Civil War fame. Her father, a prosperous mining man and mayor of Beaver, and her grandfather Murdock, legislator and stake president, naturally led in all such entertainment, and both homes were noted as delightful and hospitable gathering places. From the elementary schools, one year at the Beaver Stake Academy, and three years at the Brigham Young University at Provo, Julia attended the state university, where she graduated with a degree of Bachelor of Arts. At intervals since her college days, she has continued her education along special lines connected with her work as writer, teacher, lecturer, and social worker. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 85 JULIA A. F. LUND Besides special courses at the Utah University, she had a course in Adult Education at the University of California. She has repeatedly participated at the Leadership Week at Brigham Young University, at Burley, Idaho, Ricks College at Rexburg and five of the Idaho University Vacation Camps. She was a popular instructor in Theology and English at the Latter-day Saint College, and held the important posi- 86 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion of Educational Director at the Salt Lake Civic Center of which organization she was a member of the Board of Directors. These scholastic acquirements made her a valuable member in the educational department of the Relief Society. Her committee work in Theology, Literature, and the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest was quite outstanding. A brilliant scholar and a charming gitl, Julia was often selected for important public service. When nineteen years old, she attended the World's Congress of Women at Chicago in 1893, as a representative of the Young Women of Utah, where she delivered an address before a most notable gathering. In 1896, she was appointed secretary of the Republican State Central Committee and read the first Call and Platform of the State Republican Party. When the General Federation of Women's Clubs met in Denver, she was state chairman of correspondence for Utah, and in 1899 she represented the Utah Society Daughters of the Revolution at Philadelphia; of this organization she is a charter member. Mrs. Lund attended the International Council of Women held in Chicago in 1933 going from there to Nauvoo, Illinois where she participated in the unveiling of the Relief Society monument, giving an address on "Emma Smith The Mother". She has traveled extensively throughout the stakes of Zion in the interest of the Relief Society and in a recent trip visited the Oahu Stake and. The Hawaiian Mission. She has received many letters thanking her for her helpfulness and instruction while on these visits. Mrs. Lund is a valuable member of the Executive Committee of the Utah Conference of Social Work and the Salt Lake Chapter of the Red Cross. With all these varied activities, Julia Lund has maintained a beautiful home life. In September, 1900, she became the wife of Henry C. Lund, a promising young attorney, the son of Anthon H. Lund of the First Presidency of the Church, thus uniting two of the stalwart and prominent families of the state. To this happy union seven children were born, six of whom are living. September 5, 1925, death entered this blessed household, taking away her beloved companion. Though crushed with sorrow, Julia Lund realized her added responsibilities, and with courage and fortitude has been a remarkable mother to her fatherless children, providing, besides necessary requirements, college educations and cultural opportunities worthy of their talents and heritage; all are making good in their different pursuits, one son having followed his father's profession of law, one daughter engaging in social work and one specializing in art. A Latter-day Saint woman of innate refinement, a brilliant mind, a lover and interpreter of good books and "all things that are most excellent" it is a joy to know her and call her friend 22 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD if LAKE CITY, UTAH 4107 Woman as an Interpreter of the Faith By Maude Beeley Jacob "Your daily life is your temple and your religion." A FTER ages of human experience the universal question stands: of a man's life? The history of human experience reveals the fact that happiness is the goal of human nature. Human experience, moreover, reveals that happiness is not predicated upon the physical satisfaction of the appetites and the passions, that material wealth is not essential to happiness, and that power, honor, or fame do not guarantee happiness. Primitive man's quest for happiness differs from that of the philosopher, the miser's from the millionaire's, the way of the man of the world from the way of the man of God. The happiness of every individual differs according to his understanding of life and his own development. Modern civilization, at its best, is the product of science, social organization and Christian idealism. Science has brought to man power over the world, the world of nature; social organization has directed man's efforts in the art of living with his fellows; while Christian idealism has provided the great laws of life, the love of God and man. Yet, the same civilization has produced the destructive forces that are destroying man's chances of happiness. Science which brought immeasurable blessings produced also the means of destruction; social organization What is the measure which brought law and order produced also injustice, cruelty, and confusion through a multiplicity of standards; the creations of man now threaten man's destruction by violating the sacredness of human life, the Christian ideal. Through education, enlightenment may come to man. Through the culture of the ages stored in libraries, museums, art galleries, cathedrals, schools, and missions, life today is enriched. Whatever brings to man the good, the true, and the beautiful of life directs him in the appreciation of life. But the patterning of lives for happiness needs more than education, more than culture, more than a mere appreciation of life. That man's search for happiness is universal is evidenced by the systems of philosophy and religion that have originated in the mind of man. In the words of a great philosopher, Havelock Ellis, "It is through religion that men seek rest from the tensions of life." To know the meaning of life has occasioned the most serious thought of man. To have the assurance of his own immortality has occasioned the most sincere desire of man. It is thus that through the ages mankind has maintained his quest for happiness. It remained for Jesus to bring to the ancient systems of philosophy and religion God's plan for the immor-
88 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tality and eternal life of man. However, with the command "Be ye perfect" came also the freedom to choose the straight and narrow path to eternal life. As a pattern for building a perfect life, Jesus taught by a parable: "Every one that heareth these words of mine, and doeth them, shall be likened unto a wise man who built his house upon a rock; and the rains descended and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock." Lives built upon a knowledge of God's purposes, the assurance of God's love, and obedience to God's laws can bring to man his greatest happiness, the joy of progression. Lives built upon the love of God do not separate beliefs from actions, days are not set apart for self and for God, and joys and sorrows disturb not the soul. The measure of religion is the foundation of the temple it builds for a man's life. As the forces of the world surge against such a life, it yields not, but rather is it beautified and glorified by the experience. As one pauses to look at the tragedies of lives, there are those tragedies which stand as monuments to a faith that has not endured to build the temple even after having the divine foundation of religion; the building has been forgotten because the ways of modern life were so fair, so arresting, and so occupying. Age has many such life-structures. Then, there are the tragedies of youth, youth who are erecting no temples. To the women of today comes the challenge: "I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil; therefore, choose life that thou mayest live, thou and thy seed." It is the challenge of the ages; its import is changeless, because it holds the secret of man's eternal happiness. Women today in the quest of happiness for themselves and their seed are asking the age-old questions: What is the purpose of life? Is this life all? What is the relation between God and man? How can an individual know God? What are God's purposes for man's life? From the history of human experience, we read of woman's role as the maker and bearer of culture. As the generations of mankind have passed, she has carried her obligation for the continuance of society with courage and fortitude. As opportunities for enlightenment have come to her, she has sought knowledge with diligence and gratitude. As life has increased in complexity, she has striven earnestly for the enrichment of the moral and intellectual resources of human society. Because she has come to know the sacredness of human personality she has dedicated herself to promote the good, the true, and the beautiful in the world. The force which woman represents in the world is the force of love, a spiritual power. Women have been the servants of humanity not as theologians but as interpreters of religion. It is the humanity of the Christ of St. Luke that has been the beacon guiding the force of love as it has grown to become the spiritual power in the humanizing of the world. It is the gospel carrying the experiences of everyday living as parables: The shepherd and the sheep which is lost and the woman and the piece of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 89
silver which is lost; the traveler in the far country delivering his goods to his servants and the virgins going forth to meet the bridegroom, while wayward sons, erring women, cripples and unfortunates were also everyday experiences and are so today. The burden of the teachings of Jesus was love, for He said, "Love is the fulfilling of the law. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God." This then is the source of true religion, religion that patterns and motivates lives to their brightest perfection and therefore the greatest happiness. A more complete understanding of her own spiritual powers should serve to inspire woman to the significance of her own happiness, also to the source of her greatest influence. Agnes S. Turnbull in her beautiful creation "The Maid of Emmaus" has caught this spirit: It was Passover week and all was bustle at the little inn in Emmaus, a day's journey from Jerusalem. For the peasant maid doing the thankless tasks of the inn it became a wonderful week, for she was to carry food and wine to Jerusalem for her master. It was her first trip to Jerusalem. Many strange scenes she passed as she guided the donkey bearing the load. Within a few steps of the gate of the city a group of people had stopped to listen to a speaker. Above the crowd the girl heard the words, "A certain man planted a vineyard." The tiredness of the voice and the sadness of the face held the maid's attention. As the crowd left, the Teacher saw her standing there. Holding out His hand He smiled and said, "Thou art little Martha. Thou, too, shall be my disciple." And the maiden asked the name of the Teacher, who answered, "I am called Jesus." When the maid returned home, one thought grew stronger and stronger, to make Him a gift to show she was His disciple. The idea came to her to make some little loaves, perfect loaves of the finest wheat and take them to Him. It was a big task and must be done with secrecy. Her only treasure was sold for the finest wheat, the flour made, and the loaves baked. Leaving before dawn, she hurried to Jerusalem. One after another she questioned near the Temple, "Where was the rabbi Jesus?" It was from some soldiers she received the answer, "We helped to crucify him the other day." Holding her precious loaves, she hastened back to Emmaus. The way was long, and night had fallen when she arrived. As she expected, she was severely beaten for the neglect of her daily tasks. It was late when three strangers entered the inn weary and hungry. The maid gave them the usual meal of barley loaves, oil, and wine. Then she remembered her little loaves. She took them and placed them before one of the strangers. A light as of a radiant sunset seemed to surround Him. He took the little loaves, broke them, and blessed them. Cleophas and Simon were breathless. Martha whispered, "Master." For she alone knew Him. He turned and smiled at the maid. The Master understood. Softly the radiance faded, and the stranger's seat was empty. But on
90 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the table were the little white loaves, broken and blessed. If woman is to serve herself and her seed in the patterning and building of worthy lives, the spirit of love will be her greatest power. To the Latter-day Saints the full significance of God's purposes for the life of man have been revealed with the restoration of the Gospel. From these divine laws of life we know that it is God's plan "to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man". With this understanding, the divinely chosen leaders of the Church have sought to guide the lives of the Saints to the attainment of eternal happiness, their heritage and their promise. During the days of persecution, exile, and the building of Zion, the Saints lived very near to God, believing, trusting, and obeying. As the years passed, the newness of the modern world, its good and its evil, crowded upon Zion. Again and again has the admonition to live righteously gone forth as God's servants have counseled the Saints. Unexpected struggles have grown out of the social chaos of the age for both young and old. These have evolved also a multiplicity of standards of living, threatening the moral values of life established by the Church through revelation of God's purposes. Today is a new day, its greatest need is the translation of the world's values to the values of eternal life. The spiritual destiny of man, his immortality and his eternal happiness, is built as lives are lived. To the women of the Church who are earnestly seeking life and good for mankind must come the spiritual power of love building their own lives. Becoming interpreters of life by their own lives, they become instruments in God's work whereby the world may become refined for the fulfillment of God's purposes for the life of man.
TO GIVE OF THYSELF By Hortense Spencer Andersen
With only a modest urge at reckoning The significance of such emblazonment, Man stands again, incuriously content, Beholding his inheritance, the Spring.
He witnesses the lavish blossoming Of that which only yesterday seemed spent, Without divining the magnificent Design contrived to quicken him, earth's king.
He, also, could repeat his flowerings Of spirit, service, virtue, energy In season, as the endless other things Of earth, if he in his maturity But spent himself, as freely as a rose tree flings Its petals.... But some give but partially.
"And Ye Shall Inherit the Earth" By Beatrice Rordame Parsons
GRAM stood on the porch of the old Sanderson home and watched a big, red car flash up the dusty road. She saw Zion across the road in her garden and waved her hand. Her wrinkled cheeks were pink with excitement. "He's coming, Zion," she called. "Jeff's coming home to stay." As she crossed the road to welcome him, Zion felt a strange fear in her heart. Was Jeff really going to stay, or would Gram be disappointed? Waiting for the car, her thoughts swept back over four years. She had been sixteen?thin, long-legged, taffy-haired?to Jeff's grown-up eighteen, that day he'd gone away. She had cried, and he had given her his handkerchief. "But you don't understand," he told her fiercely, hating to hurt her, yet wanting her to understand, "you're a girl. I've got to go away. I hate the farm?milking cows, hoeing weeds, getting up at dawn to plow and plant. I want to go places, do things!" Go places! Away from Sanderson Acres? How lovely it had been that spring morning with the bridal-wreath white about the porch and the buds on all the tall, straight trees bursting into leaf. How lovely it was this morning, though many things were changed. The north and east fields had not been planted since Jeff left, and the lucern in the south field was thin and spindly. The old house with its thick adobe walls, its wide porch, its tall, deep-silled windows was in need of paint. But the walls of the milk-house were as cool and damp as they had been when she and Jeff played there as children, and mignonette and marigolds still bloomed along the old, stone fence. Zion hoped that Jeff would remember its beauty. But she remembered that Jeff had seen much beauty since he'd been gone. She sighed. Jeff, too, would be changed. But he didn't seem changed as he thumped the great car to a stop, clambered out of its low-slung seat without opening the door, and ran swiftly up the mossy walk. He was older, she saw, but his hair was still dark and wild, his eyes filled with mischief. He snatched Gram from her feet, holding her well off the floor, and regarded her with love behind his teasing eyes. "Well, old lady, how's tricks?" She begged for mercy, and he kissed her violently before letting her down upon her feet. "Gram, darling, its good to see you," he said, and turning caught sight of Zion. For a moment he stared, seeing the loveliness of her misty, golden hair, the clear blueness of her eyes under their long, gold-tipped lashes, the deep, warm tan of her flesh. Then he caught her in his arms and kissed her, too. She blushed furiously, and realized with bewildering happiness that she had been waiting every minute since he had gone away for him to come back again. But she knew his kiss hadn't meant a thing. He held her at arm's length and studied her. Then he said the most atrocious thing.
92 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Where are those skinny legs, that awful, taffy-colored hair?" Gram laughed, but Zion went from red to white, and back to red again. Stiffly, formally, she murmured, "It's nice to see you, Jeff." He seemed to realize, suddenly, that they were no longer the children they had been when he was home before, and his own face grew red as he followed the girl and his grandmother into the house. There he stood looking at the big, tall-ceilinged rooms as though he had never seen them before. Distaste showed in his eyes, and Zion remembered the sort of rooms to which Jeff had been used?small rooms, with low ceilings, soft furniture, deep rugs. Of course he would not like this old-fashioned room, the strong mahogany furniture, the bright, woven rag rugs. "Yes," she told herself, and a tiny pain moved into her heart, "Jeff is changed! He is tired, terribly tired...." Gram was talking excitedly, telling the piled-up gossip of four years. Jeff laughed in the right place, but Zion knew he did not really care. He had forgotten the neighbors, the old horse, the Maltese cat. His ears seemed to be straining against the sweet, peaceful quiet of the old house, and he seemed to be listening for the tinkle of gay voices, the blare of sliding trombones. Zion knew, suddenly, that he would never stay. He was frightened of the silence. He was used to people?gay, bright crowds, music, lovely women. And she knew as suddenly how much it meant to her for him to stay. Her eyes swept along the tall, curved staircase to where hung the pictures of other Sandersons. Jeff was like them in feature, and long, strong limb. But all the difference in the world lay between Jeff's softness and the hardness of the men who smiled down at her from the wall. Tears tugged at her lashes, and lest Gram's keen, old eyes see, she arose and went toward the door. "I must go now," she said, and knew she was glad to get away. Her voice was quite distant as she added, "I hope I shall see you soon again, Jeff." He smiled and walked with her down the hall to the front door. There he took her hand and held it tightly for a moment. For just a fleeting instant his eyes were grave. Then his voice came, light, teasing, "Still mad at me, Zion? You said you'd never forgive me if I went away." "I'd forgotten," she told him, and knew she really had. "What is it then?" he asked, and his tone was deep and grave. "I feel... Well, that you don't like me, Zion." Quickly, she denied it. "I do like you, Jeff. I've always liked you." Then she took her hand away and went quickly across the street. How much she liked Jeff she didn't want to confess even to her own heart!
SHE was pruning the rose bushes in her garden the next morning when he came out on the porch. "A rose among the roses," he called, and ran lightly across the street to lean against the white pickets of her fence. He was faultlessly clothed in gray slacks and gray sweater, and Zion silently compared him with the other men driving trucks and cars to market and the fields. He lifted
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 93
his eyes to the ragged rose bushes in his own yard and said slowly, "I remember when Mother's roses were the envy of the valley." Something soft and tender shone in his dark eyes at the memory, and then he nodded toward the north fields. "Isn't that where Dad always planted wheat?" Zion's blue eyes were grave. "There's been no wheat there for a long time. Gram has managed as best she could, but it takes a man to plow and plant." He looked at her, a quizzical light burning in the depths of his eyes. "Are you hinting that I plow that field, myself?" Though she did not mean to let him see her look, her eyes went without volition to his soft, white hands. He turned them palm up and looked at them with something very like anger in his gaze. "You'd like them better if they were hard and blistered." His anger fled, and he cried boyishly, "Oh, I could do it if I liked, but there's no need. I'm going to sell the farm." "Sell?" For a moment she did not understand. Then her face went pale. "Oh, you needn't be so tragic about it," he told her sharply. "It's my house. I can sell if I like." "But Gram," she faltered. He flushed darkly. "She'll come with me." He looked straight into her eyes and added, "I'm being married soon, Zion. I can't ask a girl like Julia to live on a farm." "Why not?" Zion's small, red mouth was a stubborn line across her face. She would not let him see how his words had hurt her. He shrugged impatiently. "Julie is a radio star. She sings. She has to be near her station.... " But he explained no further. Zion wasn't listening. She was looking, instead, over the wide, green fields to where a stately row of Lombardy poplars edged the Sanderson land. Bitterness tinged her voice as she said, "You might as well talk of transplanting one of those trees as talk of taking Gram away." He tried to defend his actions. "Gram will love it in the city. There'll be so much for her to do. She can go to the movies...." Zion's laughter was shrill. "She'll simply love Clark Gable," she cried, and bent over her roses to hide her tears. For a moment Jeff stood glaring at her. Then he turned stiffly on his heel and went away. She did not see him again until the next evening. Then he came swiftly across the road to join her on her own front porch. Contriteness was in his eyes. "I'm sorry, Zion. I've been acting as silly and sulky as a kid. What you said was true. I know it. That's what hurts." He stared across the fields to the border of his own land, and a troubled note came into his tones. "I never dreamed it would be like this. I can't understand it. I'd been away so long I'd forgotten brown fields, growing things. I've fought against this feeling all day, even," he admitted, flushing a little guiltily like a boy caught stealing jam, "while I mended the plow to prove to you that I hadn't forgotten how to plow a field,"
94 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
He turned his hands over, and she saw that they were blackened, rough from his labors. She touched one of the blisters and murmured, "Oh, Jeff, my dear!" He found his voice in a rush, "I'll make a bargain with you, Zion. I'll plant the wheat, if you'll promise to stop scolding!" He beamed over his childish bargain, and went on, "Then I'll have Gram invite Julie down for the week-end so that you can meet her and see how really lovely she is. If she doesn't fall in love with the place and want to stay, I'll give it to Gram with my blessing." Loving the land as she loved it, Zion knew that Julie couldn't resist. Her eyes shone. "She'll love it," she cried, flinging her arms wide as though to gather all that sunset beauty to her heart. "She'll not be able to help herself." Jeff got up, and she saw that his shoulders were square and purposeful. "Good night," he said, holding out his scarred hand. "I've got to get up early to get that planting done." He crushed her hand in a hearty handshake and went whistling down the walk. Zion's fingers ached at his grip, yet it was a clean, sweet ache. "Good night, my dear," she said, and turned swiftly and went into the house. At dawn she heard Jeff's gay whistling again. Quickly she slipped from her bed and went to the window. There he was, in old shirt and leather boots laced tightly about his calves, plowing that field. Behind him a shower of white seagulls made the air raucous with their clamor. Happiness bubbled in Zion's heart. She pulled her prettiest percale apron over her shining head and started down stairs. She'd bake a fresh cake and take it over for Jeff's lunch. But she forgot the cake as she remembered Julia. It didn't really matter. The cake could wait!
ON Saturday afternoon Julia came. She was just as beautiful as Jeff had said, with black, black hair and eyes that looked as though they had been put in with a sooty finger. Her clothes were sleek and fine, and Zion found herself comparing her neat, cotton dress with Julie's silk one. Jeff introduced them gaily, "Julia, this is Zion, the little girl across the street. We used to fight like Indians when we were kids," and with a teasing smile at Zion, he added, "And we still do!" Julie's smile was cool, unruffled. "It's nice to know you, Zion." She touched the tips of Zion's fingers and said to Jeff, "Now I'll go to my room and freshen up. Then you can show me your farm." She walked slowly up the stairs, under the pictures of the Sanderson women, and Zion found herself wondering queerly if Julie would prove herself like them?quiet, strong, good wives for their farmer husbands. That evening, over tall glasses of cold milk and little cakes, Julie spoke about the farm again. "I'm glad you've decided to sell it. The house is so old it gives me the creeps." Her brown eyes held contempt for the beamed ceilings, the wide, stone fireplace, the old-fashioned chairs. She turned to Gram, all gaiety and animation, and cried,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 95
"You'll love it in the city, Mrs. Sanderson. There's so much fun!" Gram's faded eyes did not change, but her voice sounded queer and shaken. "I'd never do in the city, child. I'll stay here. I'll..." But she could go no further. Zion put her arm about the old lady's waist. "You're to come and live with Mother and me," she told her swiftly. "We've got it all planned. There's plenty of room..." "Thank you, my dear," said Gram, and this time there were tears in her eyes. Jeff took a swift step toward her. "You mustn't think we don't want you, darling," he cried loudly, then turned to Julie for corroboration, "We do want her, don't we, dear?" Julie's laughter was cool, tinkling. "Of course we do, but if she thinks it better to stay..." She did not finish, only lifted her hands in a little gesture and looked at Gram. Gram's smile wobbled a little, but she held it carefully about her lips and spoke quickly; "I like it better this way, Julie." Then, before Jeff could protest, she changed the subject by saying, "You must take Julie out and show her that field." She beamed and said to Julie, "He plowed it himself." And her old voice was filled with pride. Julie laughed. "Darling! You didn't!" She caught at his arm and added as they went out together, "It takes all my imagination to think of you behind a plow!" Jeff refused to laugh. His words were stern. "I plowed it, all right, and if I do say so myself, I did as well as any Sanderson." As he closed the door, he gave Zion a challenging glance. She admitted, as she cried herself to sleep, that Jeff had done as well as any Sanderson before him. Jeff didn't know it, but he was a born farmer!
A FEW days later, Jeff came across the street to say, "Well, I think I've got a buyer?a man Julie knows. She's bringing him out this afternoon to see the place. He's been wanting something like this for a long time. Not too far from town, yet far enough to be restful and quiet. He's going to turn Sanderson Acres into a Tourist Home." Zion was appalled. "A tourist home! But Jeff, the land is fine and rich. Things grow here...." Jeff did not like her tone. "Mr. Harvey isn't a farmer. He doesn't care about the land. He's coming out to see what can be done to the old place. I'd like you to come over while he's there. Perhaps you'll change your mind about selling when you see what he's planning to do." Zion was sure she would never change her mind, but she couldn't stay away. When Julia and Mr. Harvey drove up, she accepted Jeff's invitation and went across the street to meet him. Harvey was a brisk sort of person with bushy brows and keen gray eyes. He looked the place over without a word, then came into the big living room and zipped open his brief case. With his pen in hand, he waited. "How much, Sanderson?" It was Julie who said, "Ten thousand dollars is Jeff's price, Mr. Harvey." She twinkled at Jeff, and whispered so that all could hear, "We can have a wonderful honeymoon
96 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
on that, darling, if Mr. Harvey is crazy enough to pay it." Harvey laughed good-naturedly, boomingly. "I'm crazy like a fox, Miss Julie. I've been looking for a place like this for ages. And this just about fills the bill. It's so quaint, so old-fashioned that I won't be able to keep the tourists away with a shot-gun." Julie's eyes sparkled. "The old milk-house will make a swell hotdog stand, and the barn can be turned into a garage. You can take out those folding doors and run these two huge rooms together for your dining room, but you must leave Gram's room just as it is. Every woman who comes here will fight to sleep in that old-fashioned bed." Harvey was delighted with her suggestions. "I'll take it," he said, shaking his pen and starting to write. "Ten thousand, I believe you said." Jeff's voice was very cool. "Ten thousand is Julie's price," he corrected. "I won't sell for less than twenty-five." "Twenty-five thousand for a place like this?" Harvey's brows were two astonished question marks. He zipped his brief case together and stated flatly, "You'll never get it." Julie's black eyes were filled with amazement. "Jeff," she cried, and her voice was sharp, "you're fooling!" But Jeff's eyes met hers, and his voice came swiftly, "No, Julia, I'm not fooling. It's simply that I've decided not to sell." "Not sell?" For a moment Julia could not understand. Then it flooded over her. She lifted a contemptuous glance at the pictures along the stairs. Her tone was hot, galling, filled with scorn. "So you remembered, all at once, that you were a Sanderson!" "That's it, Julie," said Jeff, and his voice was like ice. "When I began to plow and plant, I knew that the Sanderson heritage was deep in my heart. You'll know it, too, Julie, when you've lived here a little while." "Live here!" Julie's lips were white with anger. "Stay on this silly, old farm!" Biting laughter fell from her lips. "I hate it here." She put her hand on the door-knob, and her voice became scathing, "I'm letting Mr. Harvey take me home. Good-by, Jeff. It's been very nice knowing you." Then she was gone, a flip of her skirt, a toss of her black, shining head. Jeff watched her go, relief flowing into his dark eyes. "She wouldn't have done, would she, Gram?" he asked, and sounded like a troubled, little lad. Gram's eyes were bright now, shining with happiness. "No, Jeff boy, she wouldn't have done." A sly little smile crept about her wrinkled mouth, and she added, "Now if you'd picked a girl like Zion..." Though she did not finish, Jeff seemed to understand. He put his hand against Zion's arm, and spoke over his shoulder to his grandmother as he led her away. "Excuse us, darling, there's something I neglected to speak to Zion about." Gram smiled, and Zion felt her heart beating unevenly. All at once she wanted to run away from this tall, masterful stranger standing before her, holding out battered hands. His voice was very stern.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 97
"Look here, Zion, this is all your fault. Every blister on those fingers was made because of you." His sternness vanished as suddenly as it had come, and he pleaded, "Don't you think you should do something about it?" "Wh.. A.. T?" Zion's voice was very thin and small. "Marry me," he told her loudly. "Make me the sort of Sanderson you've always hoped I'd be." Zion's eyes were bright as stars. She did not resist as he took her into his arms?hard, firm arms they were this time. She lingered in them for a moment, and felt his kiss against her lips. When at last he let her go, she smiled up at him, and her blue eyes were filled with pride. "I can't make you into a Sanderson, Jeff darling. You've done that yourself. It was your heritage..." He was looking over the top of her shining head with eyes that glowed as they saw the long rows of bright green wheat beginning to show in the north field. He did not seem to know that he was speaking, yet words came softly to his lips. "And ye, my children, shall inherit the earth...."
HOW COULD I KNOW? By Anna Prince Redd
I knew they loved me?John and Jack and Paul. But John was smug, and Jack was dull, Paul, meant For country lass. While I, so elegant, Would love no one of them, I thought, at all.
I loved a handsome suitor, stately, tall, Whose dark smooth head above my curls was bent, Whose arms around me, trembling, left me spent With rapture, breathless, answering love's call.
But that was, oh, so long ago, my dear, When I was young, and dreaming, quite the thing. How could I know what future years would bring, Or that tonight, still dreaming, I'd be sitting here With you close by? And?yes, there in the glass, I see myself, Paul dear, your country lass.
The Sunny Side of the Hill Beginning Again By Lella Marler Hoggan
Across the western sky a blaze of color is flung across a rugged mountain range. Under the glow of the setting sun, the purple shadows warm into rose and amethyst, orchid and mauve. Then, as the sun sinks lower in the sky, the hills take on a cold blue color, and the deepening shades of night creep up the gullies and across the face of the cliffs. A young girl watching the changing scene catches her breath in ecstasy, "Life is like that, glorious, radiant, all golden." An old woman viewing the same sunset sighs heavily, "Life is like that. At the last all of the color fades out, and it becomes dark and cold and threatening." You who are growing older, do you see life from the deepening shadows? Has the color, the beauty, the romance faded out of the picture for you? Has the weight of the years crushed your high hopes and left you with only broken dreams and bitter memories? In youth you cherished the ideal of a beautiful woman, a woman who possessed all of the feminine graces, who was as sweet and wholesome as a fragrant flower?the woman that you hoped one day to become. Now you are face to face with her. As you look at her in the mirror each morning, as you kneel with her in prayer each night, are you disappointed in her? After all, isn't she the woman that you had hoped she would be? Having walked with her through the years, you know of the losses and the failures she has met. You know of the crushing sorrow, of the stark tragedy through which she has struggled. You know, too, how day after day she has missed many of the lovely things she so much desired to enjoy, because life demanded of her that she perform the hard, necessary tasks. But judging her in the light of all that has gone before, do you not know that her life is more than a broken dream?
Too often we view life from the shady side of the hill. Losing the glint of the sunshine, we see only the dark side of the picture. We come to think of ourselves as old-fashioned and unimportant, as just a part of an out-dated machine, ready to be tossed aside unnoticed. But that view of life is not true. Even if you have lived a long time you are still a person. You can still look to the sunlit heights by day and the stars by night for inspiration. You can still listen to the lark at dawn. Why should we mill around dead campfires? Why should we sit and watch a spent blaze? Let us stir the coals, and as the flame leaps high perhaps its light will guide us back to the path again. Busy hands and a singing heart bring cheer to the dullest day.
DUTY held the early-day mother to her household tasks even in sorrow, because there was always "a fire to tend and a wick to trim". Let us find some service to perform, some little song to sing. If we have suffered sorrow and defeat, we know the words to speak to bring hope to another who is in distress. Providing for the daily needs of others brings a certain quiet joy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 99
When the day is gray and the clouds hang low, And the moan of the gale is strong, From the kitchen fire and a mixing bowl Comes the magic that heals the troubled soul, And warms the heart with a song.
Walking in the shadows with heart closed against the singing melody of life, do not give up hope. Be assured, you are not forgotten. A divine presence is forever near you. You can still claim the gentle comfort of God's healing love. Through daily communion with Him, you can find your way back to the blossoming valley of peace and contentment. It is never too late to begin again. The ideal is still in your heart, and the dream can be created anew. Life is not a failure until we quit trying. No game is lost until it is over. Remember Harriet Beecher Stowe's advice: "When you get into a tight place, and everything goes against you, till it seems as if you couldn't hold on any longer, never give up then, for that's just the place and time that the tide'll turn." While we are traveling toward the summit of life, we go in gladness, eager to meet the day. But on reaching the top of the hill, we sometimes lose the zest for life. And yet the remainder of the journey is quite as interesting as the beginning. At every turn of the road new vistas will be revealed to our view. 100 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Life does not stint her measure to us because we are growing older. We are the ones who limit the generous flow of truth and beauty, of joy and romance. There is a wealth of treasure for both age and youth, if we but have faith enough to claim our portion. There has never been an age when life held so much of interest to lure men and women on toward achievement and satisfaction. Do not think that. The quest is ended. Each apparent ending only marks a new beginning. Let us up and on our way. Nature does not brood over her unhappy yesterdays. Can not we also forget? Long ago Susan Coolidge reminded us that, "Every day is a fresh beginning, Every morn is the world made new." The time of beginning is here. Let us rise with a song in our hearts and go to meet the new day. HIDDEN SONG By Marguerite Burnhope Harris Somewhere within my heart there is a song, But I don't hear or feel its rhythmic call; Its music does not touch my soul at all For night has come, and for a time so long There has been leaden gray where songs belong. Yet still I know 'tis there beyond a wall That some day will be crushed, and crumbling fall, And forth will come a melody and dawn. For always light doth follow after dark, And hidden songs do find their joyous way To gladden hearts as sunshine brightens day. And then I, too, will sing as does the lark When morning comes to spread its glorious light Upon a world that is no longer night. An Anniversary Significant to "Everymember'' By Rae B. Barker FRROM the source of that same glorious effulgent light, of a brightness eclipsing anything the Prophet Joseph Smith had experienced, comes the light which illumines Relief Society's path of progress; and those who come within the radius of its influence reflect the light in varying degrees. Though the light possessed by each may be small, the cumulative contributions of "Everymember" make up the strength, the beauty, the fullness of Relief Society. This thought provided the theme for a program planned in the interest of membership. Such a program emphasizing membership could readily be adapted in commemorating Anniversary Day. The theme was introduced through the song "Shine On" in which we find these words: "My light is but a little one.... But lo! It glows like God's great sun for it was lighted there." The president further developed the theme in a convincing talk on the worth, or light, emanating from Relief Society. Capitalizing on the impressiveness of candle-lighting, she lit a taper; then, from her glowing candle other workers lighted theirs. Membership coordinators carried high lights symbolical of the idea expressed in the quotation "Let your light so shine.... "Also was read, "Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house." The numbers following evidenced _ membership. A wealth of local talent. Deserving of mention were papers on "Handicaps Solved" and "Treasures I Have Found". Equally fine, in another ward, was the singing of an original anthem. Short biographical sketches of several ward women, recounting outstanding services, given unobtrusively, revealed beautiful characters. The work done by many thousands of women who constitute the general membership is best known in their own localities. While every service given carries its own compensation, appreciation stimulates further achievement. An effective March 17 program might be one honoring "Everymember" and in nature a recital of accomplishments stimulated and fostered by Relief Society. The Magazine is a rich source for supplemental material. Stories, poems, informative articles, original songs come from the pen of "Everymember". The series "Women We Should Know" and "Typical Women of the Church", as well as accounts of varied services and activities in "Notes From the Field", offer splendid material for developing an Anniversary program. Music, vocal and instrumental, chorus and individual, is joyously given by "Everymember" talent. Just now we are intensively working to spread the influence of Relief Society by substantially increasing Anniversary Day would be spent to good purpose if 102 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we succeed in intensifying appreciation for being a member, with the accompanying privileges, or create the desire to become one. In some instances, March 17 has been the occasion for presenting the Organization with needed material gifts. Organization featured the presentation of an unusual gift?a large group of new members, bringing with them new faith and friendships, new talents and testimonies, new services and strengths. For the occasion, a poem was written to be used in presenting them. Each was identified by an inexpensive buttoniere. As they stood in a group, it was gratify-. Ing to observe that the Organization had been so generously augmented. In line with that idea, one. A program followed demonstrating that a typical group of our women possess gifts and talents that are rich in variety. It further demonstrated that the Relief Society plan offers numerous opportunities for their development. The new members, because of their willing response, found a warm welcome. The day ended with our rousing rally song sung with gusto. We were all moved to new determination. To every woman who would develop her talents to the fullest, Relief Society is a key to open the door of spiritual opportunity. Anniversary Day offers its challenge to each and all. Again let this. Be our creed ?Faith to Succeed. FOR FEET MUST FOLLOW O, may my heart go singing, Pioneers, That song of courage which your hearts began! Sharpen my feelings till my spirit hears That one of steel which held you to your plan. O, shap? a Zion for my eyes, and let Me cherish truth far reaching as the dawn! For feet must follow where the heart is set And find the goal the eye is fixed upon. And let pride lend my song a quickened beat, Pride in my heritage, this sacred trust; But add an undertone of trudging feet, The thud of oxen plodding through the dust. Give it the peace that marks the furrow's seam, The clip of chisels, and the hammer's ring; But over all let faith to see your dream And gratitude be in the song I sing. ?Eva Willes Wangsgaard. Wanted?A Haven By Grace A. Cooper THE loved a garden and lived with it the year around. From the first brave shoot of green in the early spring to the last frost defied leaf of early winter, it had her attention. The cold, wet snows she endured, knowing their benefit. She gave to plants and flowers understanding care, and they responded generously. She had the gift. This morning Libbie Moorehouse was tired and discouraged. The soil in her daughter's yard in Centerville was unused to cultivation, and this was but the second season. Libbie rested in the shade of an oak tree and contemplated her work. The struggle of the seeds to break through the hard dirt reminded her of the efforts of her own life adjustments. It was her eyes one remembered, eyes kind and forbearing, eyes that looked into the hearts of flowers. To Libbie, flowers had character and individuality. She liked to think of their resemblance to friends, but this morning the nostalgia was too great. It was the transplanted ones she watched with sympathetic understanding. Some grew strong quickly, some withered, others needed the support of props. She must make up her mind which were to be replanted to a shady corner or more congenial surroundings. "I am like these plants," she thought. "I am not taking root well. I am leaning on Sadie again for support." It was her sister, Sadie, to whom she turned when they were children and in their young womanhood days. Although two years younger, Sadie had been the leader, the dominant personality. Libbie had married Will Moorehouse, and to him she had left all decisions. With him she had felt secure and protected through the years. Of their two children, Evelyn and Fred, the girl had been of the inquiring mind, demanding to know the whys of life. Fred was more inclined to an effortless acceptance of the gifts of chance. Two years ago, when Will died, the children had urged her to come and live with them. Grief-stricken and feeling terribly alone, she had let them make the decision for her, had sold her home and_ possessions. Somehow the plan had not worked out as she had anticipated. She looked at these transplanted flowers in the garden and felt guilty she had moved them. She had gone to Fred's first. They had treated her as a guest and one who was expected to act as a guest. The three lively, growing boys were hushed that their noise might not disturb Grandmother but always in the tone, "Never mind, it won't be for long." Restless, busy hands were suddenly forced idle in her lap. Lured by the thought of a possible garden at the home of Evelyn and husband, Tom McDonald, and daughter, Katheryn, she had gone there. Their welcome was kind and gracious, but the, house just fitted a family of three. A voice from the back porch broke in on her reveries; "Mother, haven't you stayed too long in that hot sun? 104 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Come in, here is a letter for you." She crossed the little ribbon of lawn to the house. The dining room was cool and pleasant, the curtains - crisp, the windows shining. "Evelyn's a good housekeeper," thought Libbie. "Better than I was."  The letter was from Fred. She read it, returned it to its envelope, while Evelyn stood by waiting for family news. 'The mother only remarked, "He wanted to know if I had received the money for the house. And," she smiled, "he asked me to come again to visit them." KATHERYN at seventeen was a replica of Evelyn at that age, thought Libbie. Katheryn was saying, "After lunch and you go to your room, I am coming with you for a visit while you get ready for Aunt Sadie." "I am embarrassed when company comes and you take them to that little room," exclaimed Evelyn irritably. "How would you like to have the room enlarged? Tom and I were talking about it again this morning. He said the room could be extended, an in-a-door bed and dressing room built in, and a door leading to the outside. That would make you a nice living room of your own. He thought it could be done for only a few hundred dollars." Evelyn watched her mother's passive face and found no encouragement but finished what was on her mind. "We can't afford to do it this summer, unless," she hesitated, "you want to help." Katheryn burst out impatiently, "Come on, Grandmother, you won't be ready before Aunt Sadie comes." In the tight little room that had been used for trunks and storage before Libbie came, Katheryn threw herself down on the narrow bed and began falteringly, "Grandmother, did you go to college?" "No, I married, but Sadie went," said Libbie proudly. "I want to go to the university this fall, and I want to be a teacher like Aunt Sadie, only," she added defiantly, "I don't want to be an old maid." Libbie smiled tolerantly at the alert, sensitive face of the young girl who, since her graduation a few weeks before, seemed to have taken on a more positive character. "Grandmother," continued Katheryn, "why didn't Aunt Sadie marry? Didn't she ever have a boy friend?" "Yes, there was Charles Watson." She withdrew into the past. "The four of us grew up together, went to parties and riding together. Will and I married. Charles wanted to be a doctor, so. When he went away to school Sadie went to the State Normal to learn to be a teacher." Katheryn waited. ? "When Charles returned, they planned to be married." She paused again. "Then what happened, Grandmother?" "Sadie had resigned at the close of school, and they arranged for a house with an office in the front rooms. He died of pneumonia." "Oh, poor Aunt Sadie. Then what did she do?" broke in Katheryn sympathetically. "She got her position back again and devoted herself to her school work." "I?m glad you told me, Grandmother," said Katheryn quietly, but went on, "I believe I will make a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 105 good teacher, too. I have it all planned. It would take about $500 for me at the university this coming year, then I could teach in one of the district schools next year and go to Normal the next year." "That would be very nice, Katheryn. I am sure you would make a very good teacher," said Libbie absently as she stood before a picture of Sadie. "Father says he doesn't see how he can afford it this year." Katheryn's voice trailed on with undeveloped plans as she watched her grandmother's face for some cooperation. They talked on of other things, Katheryn returning often to the unsettled subject. They were suddenly surprised to hear Evelyn and Sadie at the door. LIBBIE thought her sister looked il and worm out. "Are you well, Sadie?" she asked when they had a chance to be alone. Sadie had always been tall and straight, shoulders squared and firm chin held high. Now she was drooped as if too tired to make the effort. "The past year has been strenuous, but as it was my last I worked harder than ever. Perhaps at sixty-five one notices the strain more." Her voice was wealy. "Now it's all over, and you have been retired. Are you sure of your pension, Sadie?" "Yes, it's all settled," rejoined her sister. "Sadie," said Libbie falteringly, "did you go by the red brick house?" "I didn't go by," laughed Sadie, "I went in." Libbie's face lighted in happy anticipation. "Was there a nice garden?" "There was a large one in the rear. It was a hodge podge, but it had possibilities?for one who has the gift." She smiled as she watched the other's expression. "T had a letter from Brother Joe," said Libbie, longing to talk over things of common interest. "What new scheme did he have, and how much did he want you to invest?" asked Sadie grimly. Libbie chuckled, for she enjoyed Sadie's various moods. "He wanted to borrow a thousand dollars. He was sure he had a money-maker this time, but I didn't send it," she hastened to add. "T hope not. I remember the money I contributed to that bottomless pit, with not even interest." "Fred collected the rest of the money on the sale of my home and sent it to me last week," went on Libbie. "How much will you have?" inquired her sister. "About thirty-five hundred. = I had to use some of the insurance money. I needed some new clothes," she defended, "Evelyn needed new things this spring, and Katheryn's graduation cost them more than they planned." Libbie's apologetic distress was so pathetic that Sadie left unsaid what she thought. "I had another letter from Fred today." Sadie caught another family confession and waited. "Fred's oldest boy, Jack, can't seem to find a job but can buy a share in a business with two other boys. Fred wanted me to lend him $700. He said they would pay more interest than I could get at the bank." 106 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sadie's forbidding silence was her only comment. Both sat and rocked, deep in unsolved problems. "Did you find out what we wanted to know?" inquired Libbie, eagerly, yet fearing the answer. "Yes, it was about what we planned," she rejoined. "Do you think...?" "It's for you to decide, Libbie." The rocking continued. Libbie was making the greatest decision of her life. Her mind went back to events of the past: The several times they had helped Fred get started in business, money lent Evelyn and Tom, her husband's long illness, the parting from old friends and adjusting herself to new and younger ones. "They don't need me," she argued to herself. "They are all happier without me, for I know I interfere with their way of living. I am always on their minds as someone to be looked out for and taken care of." Her voice became unexpectedly determined as she said, "I've made up my mind." THE next morning Evelyn realized something unusual was happening. She was perplexed at the activities of the sisters. 'Trunks were repacked, articles discarded. 'There were low-voiced discussions as to what would be needed and what should be left. Trying to keep the anger out of her voice, she said, "Mother, what does this mean?" Libbie thought, "If ever I needed Sadie's moral support it is now." She answered her daughter, "I'm going to be with Sadie." Katheryn, bewildered, wished her grandmother would say something about the money. Not that she had actually asked her for it, but surely Grandmother understood. Evelyn, in and out of the little room, unable to assist, wondered, too, if she were to make further plans to enlarge the room before her mother returned. Evelyn felt a quick resentment against her Aunt Sadie. Perhaps she had influenced the mother. "No," she thought, "Aunt Sadie might have made the first suggestion, but it was to the mother the decision had been left." In her heart she weighed the things she had done for her mother, and the things she might have done, and in her heart she read the balance. Whatever it was, she admired her mother for doing the thing she wanted to do. Libbie's good-by mutely pleaded for reserved judgment and understanding as she whispered, "I'll write." The awaited letter came. Evelyn tushed to the phone and called long distance for her brother. "Fred, Mother has put one over on us. Where do you suppose she and Aunt Sadie are? They have gone to the Martha Martin home for old ladies. Now don't flare up. It's a lovely place. They have adjoining rooms. They pay $2500 each and will be cared for the rest of their lives. Certainly, do that. I'm sending them a night. Letter."  A Way Of Life By Leone G. Layton WHAT does the Word of Wisdom mean to you? Has it helped you to a better way of life? Has it done for you that which was intended by our Father when He gave it? It is kind counsel, which, if understood and followed, directs us to the abundant life and protects us against insidious temptations to use things detrimental to our well being. In this day of alluring advertisements, our eyes are constantly drawn to beautiful - pictures conveying the idea that the perfect hostess serves wine on her table; we are told that certain products give us strength and vigor; our ears are beset with pleas to use things which we have been taught are harmful. Our Father foresaw our situation and forewarned us concerning it. Is it not comforting to have the sure word of the Lord to turn to? He explains to us as patiently as we would to a little child that certain things are not good for the body and further tells us the real uses for them. His concern is not for the few but for all His children, and each who will heed his counsel may have the promised treasures. We read so much about the Word of Wisdom, men's various interpretations of its meaning, but many of us do not read it frequently enough as it is given by our Father. Because of misunderstandings of its content and purpose it has become to some merely a document of limitations, of prohibitions, given to infringe upon personal liberties. Naturally, in homes where this attitude prevails the children are not given the proper understanding of its purpose in their lives. Two mothers were recently discussing this subject. Their sons were the same age and had the same general associates. They realized the fact that soon the boys would meet the temptation to smoke and must either succumb to or conquer it. One mother said, "I really am not 'very worried; we have tried to point out the real meaning of the first cigarette to our boy. He has studied the Word of Wisdom, and I believe he understands the counsel therein." The other mother said, ?Well, I'm sure of this, my boy will never stand for anyone calling him a sissy!" To the one boy, smoking a cigarette would mean a departure from the way of life he had chosen to follow; to the other boy, who feared ridicule, it would mean a way to prove himself the possessor of the type of bravado he called manhood. Will this second boy, as he grows older, scorn the counsel given by road signs put up for the safety of the motorist? Will he feel them a curtailment of his personal liberties and take to the sagebrush to prove his ability to manage his own affairs without following counsel? Our Father has been kind enough to post signs for us along the highway of life that we may travel with the greatest comfort and safety. Nephi said: "But the Lord knoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore he prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children of men; for behold, he hath all power unto the fulfilling of all his 108 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE words." (I Nephi 9:6) We know through recorded history that this has been true in past ages; then, it should be equally true for us. Is it not better to arrange our life pattern according to the direction of one who "knoweth all things from the beginning and prepareth a way" than to shortsightedly fear for our personal liberty and so take the wrong road in order to prove we still have it? Not once in Section 89 does our Kind Counselor say to us, "Thou shalt not!" But rather: "To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days? "Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints." Who could read those words without feeling the love our Father has for us and the great desire He has for our welfare? Who, reading them, could feel in them a curtailment of personal choice? Later in the Section we read: "And it is pleasing unto me that they (flesh of the beasts and of fowls of the air) should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. We hear on every hand today different theories regarding the use of meats?we should and we should not eat them. People discussing their particular beliefs readily become argumentative in defending them; our Father says to us, "It is pleasing to me." He further promises us treasures if we heed his counsel: "Health, strength, wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures." Are these things worth striving for? Let us then turn to our Doctrine' and Covenants and reread Section 89. Read the words of a kind Father pointing the way to an abundant life for His children. NO Latter-day Saint who understands the genius of his religion, will. Quibble as to whether the Word of Wisdom is a 'commandment' or the 'will' of God. Even a suggestion from Deity should be followed by willing and implicit obedience. The Lord does not expect his children to be commanded in all things, 'for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward'." (Doc. & Cov. 58:26.) HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon FEBRUARY?Friendship is the truest gift from man to man. A CHARMING month is February. Then the gaieties of the season reach a climax. The follies of the masquerade and Colonial balls in gala costumes rival in revelry. Lacy valentines and dainty gifts crowd the mails, and hearts beat high in expectancy of spring. ALICE MARBLE, tennis queen, was noted by the nation's sport experts the outstanding woman athlete of 1939. HELEN PERRY, Helene Rains, and Helen Crelnkovich, expert American swimmers, have gone to South America to enter the seven swimming tournaments to be held there. The three Helens will compete with champions of Argentine and Brazil. VIVIAN LEIGH was awarded first prize among women stars for her characterization of Scarlet O'Hara in "Gone With the Wind" by the New York film critics, while "Wuthering Heights" was considered the best film production. ASENITH ALNEY, 17, froze to death when her car became stalled on a lonely highway Christmas day. 'This heroic young mother discarded her own warm clothing to save her four-month-old baby girl. IRENE GERBER, according to gypsy custom, carried out a wedding-funeral, as she followed the casket of her young lover to his burial place. Dressed in white gown and veil with ushers, bridesmaids, ringbearers and a gypsy band in procession the picturesque group threw flowers into the grave of her beloved. JUDGE REVA BECK BOSONE of Utah is listed in the "Woman's Almanac of 1940" among the feminine celebrities. It is a volume devoted to women first in everything. Pearl Buck, Katherine Cornell and Anne O'Hara McCormick are among those listed. UNITY VALKYRIE FREEMAN-MITFORD, Nordick beauty, payed dearly for her admiration and friendship for Adolph Hitler. She returned last month to her English home and father, Lord Redesdale, suffering from a mysterious illness. ELIZABETH C. CRISMON, 91, Rosina C, Lambert, 87, Anne S. Hatch, 86, and Nellie C. Sandberg, 65, Gold Star mother, all notable pioneer Church and civic workers, died this winter. NNE GREEN'S new _ book, "The Silent Duchess," a serious study of French Society, 18th century; Susan Erst's "One Fight More", a satirical novel; Bartita Harding's "Imperial Twilight", a romantic history of the last of the Hapsburgs, and Catherine D. Bowen's "Free Artist", the story of Anton Rubinstein, are among the best books recently published. HARRIET McCLOSKIE, Utah business woman, has gone again to the Orient in search of odd wares and antiques for the American trade. GO?~EDITORIAL?O Retiring General Board Members SERVICE rendered by willing, discerning, capable persons in the advancement of the work of the Lord is glorious; its benefits are far reaching, and she who renders it is compensated in the joy that accompanies such service, in the appreciation and love of those served and in the blessings of a kind and generous Father. The Relief Society has been fortunate in having as General Board Members women of unusual ability, women who understand the principles of the Gospel and who have strong testimonies of its truth, women willing to give generously of their time and talents that the work may go forward. Each of the retiring Board Members has made a definite and valuable contribution to the Society, visiting the stakes, serving on standing and special committees, formulating and defining policies and planning programs. Each has her own special endowment which has enabled her to make a unique contribution to the work. Emma A. Empey was appointed general treasurer in 1911, retaining this position until the reorganization of the Board in 1921. Her unusual business ability enabled her to fill the position with efficiency. This same ability, together with her skill in needlework, made her a capable manager of the Burial Clothes Department. She is probably best known, however, because of her work in the field of nursing. Prior to her appointment as a member of the Board, she was appointed Superintendent of Relief Society nurses, a work which she pioneered. Later, she took over the placement of nurses trained in the Relief Society School of Nursing. Educated in the social graces, kindly and gracious in temperament, she has been an asset to the Organization in its social functions. Annie Wells Cannon's life is a splendid record of service to Church and community. She was first appointed a member of the Board in 1902, serving until 1910, when she was released because of the arduousness of her duties as President of the Pioneer Stake, which position she held from 1904 until 1920. She was reappointed to the Board in 1919 by President Heber J. Grant. Sister Cannon's service to the Organization has been of the highest order. Her knowledge of its history, her wise judgment with regard to policies and programs, her humanitarian instincts, her tireless devotion to all phases of the work place her among Relief Society's outstanding leaders. Her literary talent has been invaluable to the Organization; her creative work is superior. Her contributions to the Magazine have greatly enhanced its value. She has been chairman of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Committee, and in this position has done much to stimulate women to express themselves in poetry and to raise the standard of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 111 work done. She has been influential in developing an appreciation of the best in literature. For fifteen years she served as associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, the forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, Devoted as she has been to the Church, she has also been very active in civic affairs, receiving national recognition in 1926 as the woman from Utah whose success and influence was most far reaching. When the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs started its selection of outstanding women in 1934, she was among the seven chosen the first year. Lalene H. Hart was appointed to the Board April 2, 1921. She has served with efficiency and fidelity. She was a graduate of the Brigham Young College and later attended Simmon's College in Boston for several terms, specializing in Home Economics. Relief Society has greatly benefitted from her training in this field. As chairman of the Work and Business Committee she has been instrumental in bringing into the program our present excellent course in Nutrition. In the appointment of Sister Cora L. Bennion, April 2, 1921, the Board was strengthened by a reserved, well balanced, spiritual woman. Her educational interests and opportunities have aided greatly in the educational program. Her work as chairman of the Temple committee has resulted in increased activity in this direction. Full of faith, dependable, capable, she has played an important part in the work of Relief Society. Rosannah Cannon Irvine, a woman of culture and refinement, was called to the Board April 2, 1921. The daughter of a General Board Member, Sarah Jenne Cannon, and one of the Church's great leaders, George O. Cannon, she brought to her position a thorough understanding of the Gospel and a knowledge and an appreciation of Relief Society. When only 15 years of age she was called to be secretary of the Farmer's Ward Relief Society. Recognizing the capacities of Relief Society women to understand and enjoy the best, Sister Irvine has labored diligently to uplift cultural standards. She is a gifted writer, and many local organizations have presented her plays and pageants. For the past two years she has been chairman of the Pageant Committee. Nettie D. Bradford was president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society when called to the Board, March 25, 1925. She has filled her position with grace and dignity. No task has been too difficult or unpleasant for her, and her accomplishments are immeasurable. As president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, she introduced a central family registration system which was later adopted by the General organization, an outstanding contribution to Relief Society. In addition to the splendid service rendered Relief Society she has brought credit to the Organization through her extensive activities in community affairs. On August 17, 1927, a charming, talented woman was made a member of the Board. Ida Peterson Beal's gift of song and sunny disposition have brought happiness; as a member of the Music Committee she has 112 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE been instrumental in developing the musical talent of the women of the Church. As first chairman of the committee directing the activities of the Singing Mothers her efforts merit praise and gratitude. Her vision and foresight regarding the possibilities of developing a great chorus of Singing Mothers has been realized. Civic and church work has for many years claimed the interest of Sister Emeline Young Nebeker. She was appointed a member of the General Board December 11, 1929, and has proved herself eminently fitted for the position. Serving as president of the Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward at the time of her appointment, her interest in the ward units has continued; she has kept unusually close to them and their problems. She has been vitally interested in social welfare and through her identification with civic welfare organizations has been influential in promoting good will and friendly cooperation between them and the Relief Society. She is a good executive, has the ability to see things clearly and the courage to work for and defend the right. Sister Nebeker has filled her position creditably. Janet Murdoch Thompson has been a member of the Board since April, 1935. A woman of integrity and good judgment, a forceful leader, she has served with distinction. She is an accomplished pianist and has been tireless in her efforts to bring music into the lives of Relief Society women. She has been an active member of the Church Music Committee and has served as chairman of the Music Committee of the General Board directing the activities of the Singing Mothers, a stupendous movement which has been unusually successful and has grown with marked rapidity. Her special interest in music has not narrowed her activities in the Organization; she has a fine vision of all phases of the program and has worked hard to promote the welfare of the Organization as a whole. Her marvelous capacity for friendship has been an asset to the Society. The Relief Society organization acknowledges its indebtedness to all who faithfully serve it, and the Magazine wishes to express its love and appreciation for the retiring General Board members. May the compensations of service be theirs in abundance.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Change in Relief Society Annual Stake Conventions
BEGINNING with the year 1940, the Relief Society annual stake conventions will be held in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as heretofore. The announcement of this change was made November 8, 1939, at a meeting of auxiliary executives called by Elders Stephen L. Richards and Albert E. Bowen, of the Council of the Twelve. The time of the stake quarterly conferences formerly scheduled for auxiliary work will hereafter be given to the Priesthood, the First Council of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric. In harmony with the new plan, the Relief Society convention for each stake may be scheduled, as far as possible, for the same day as the regular union meeting in one of the late summer or fall months. Wherever convenient, more than one stake will be included in the same convention, When stakes with varying union meeting days are combined, the convention date cannot always coincide with the regular union meeting day in each stake. Some deviation from the regular union meeting day will also be necessary in order to make it possible for members of the General Board to attend conventions in all the stakes in the Church during the designated months. Nevertheless, even though it may not be possible to hold the convention on the regular day of the union meeting for all stakes, the convention will, in the month in which it is held, replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a convention is not scheduled may forego their union meeting in that month. Convention schedules of the auxiliaries are being planned so that they do not fall in consecutive months for the same stake, so that no auxiliary will be deprived of more than one union meeting in order to accommodate the convention schedule of another auxiliary. The dates and programs for the new conference-union meetings will be announced later.
New Cantata by B. Cecil Gates By Wade N. Stephens
THE new cantata, "Resurrection Morning", written by B. Cecil Gates and dedicated to the Singing Mothers, was first performed Sunday, January 14, 1939, at the University Ward Chapel in Salt Lake City by Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Virginia Freeze Barker, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, James E. Haslam and P. Melvin Peterson, with Wade N. Stephens at the organ. The chapel was overcrowded with choristers and organists from the wards and stakes in and near Salt Lake, as well as most of the prominent musicians of the Church and city. Everyone who heard the performance acclaimed the work as
114 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the best Brother Gates has published to date, and a very effective and musicianly composition. Five voice parts are written in the score (SS. A. T. B.). They are so arranged that the cantata is equally effective when sung by ladies voices (SS. A.), by ladies voices with bass (SS. A. B.), or by the full five parts. The chorus parts are well within the range of untrained voices, with optional higher notes that improve the effect when sung by the few who can reach them. This makes it very usable in the wards where there are few tenors, and sometimes no men at all. All the voice parts are both easy and melodious, but in spite of this the music is very interesting. The work consists of seven choruses, some with solo parts, which are effective as anthems apart from the rest of the cantata, and four short recitatives that connect the choruses to form a narrative of the Crucifixion and some of the events of the first Easter Morning. Each chorus is carefully composed, and some of the climaxes sound very full and complicated, when in fact they are very simple to sing. We recommend the new cantata to all groups?Singing Mothers, M. I. A. Choruses, ward choirs, and even children's voices. Brother Gates has surpassed himself in this work. It is to be ranked among the best our composers have produced.
Letter of Thanks
THE Salt Lake City Council of Women's Committee on Finnish Relief, of which Mrs. J. L. Jones is Chairman, wishes to thank the women of Salt Lake City and the State of Utah for the generous response they made to the call for help in this worth while cause in behalf of a people who have proven themselves worthy of the deepest regard by the citizens of the United States. In responding to the call for funds to supply food, shelter and clothing for a group of unfortunates who have been forced, through war, to leave their homes and take up residence at a distance from the front lines, we feel that the women of Salt Lake City and Utah have rendered an humanitarian service. "Cast your bread upon the waters and in many days it shall return" may be said of the Finnish people who showed the true Christian spirit of honesty in their attempt to pay their War Debt to the United States. We wish it were possible to thank each woman individually and say that by your acts you may be helping to stem the tide of communism and uphold democracy in assisting a Christian people to maintain their land free and Christianized. Other members of the Women's Committee who have worked diligently are: Mrs. John T. Wahlquist, Mrs. Winifred P. Ralls, Miss Elise Madsen, Mrs. W. E. Best, Mrs. Junius Hayes, and the members of the Board of the Salt Lake City Council of Women, also the officers of the P. T. A., The National Women's Relief Society, The Y. W. M. I. A., The Primary Association, and The District Federation of Women's Clubs.
Sincerely, Mrs. L. A. Stevenson. President Salt Lake City Council of Women.
Born of pioneer blood and soil, Nurtured and trained by a life of toil, Cultured and graced from an inner light. Chosen of God to defend the right, Silent and mute, he walked apart, Hopes and yearnings locked deep in his heart. Words cannot tribute this God-given life, Shining through darkness. Struggle, and strife; Mightier far than the words of pen Triumphs his name in the hearts of men. Symbol of brotherhood, charity, love. Faith in the right and His Maker above. ?Mabel Jones.
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
RESUME
Carolyn Evans thought she was being a good wife when she worked and saved uncomplainingly. She became so absorbed in the routine of housekeeping that she failed to catch the broader vision of what a wife and mother might be. Suddenly, the knowledge is thrust upon her that she and her husband, Turner Evans, are strangers mentally and spiritually. Heartsick over his neglect, she puzzles over the situation and its cause. He sees the cause clearly. Fifteen years before, she had stopped growing mentally, while he had gone on developing steadily and consistently, However, his power and influence were more evident abroad than at home. Frustrated and disappointed with the condition of his home, he has become irritable and dictatorial. He is particularly irritated with Bob, the eldest son, because he is failing to make use of his powers, Bob is in love with June Straughn from the Elkhorn ranch but does not consider himself her equal because of the difference in their backgrounds. Carson, the second-born, is the uncertain quantity in the Evans home. He is straining against home ties and is threatening to leave. Bob goes to the Elkhorn to tell Mrs. Straughn his mother has reconsidered and will be a counselor to her in the Relief Society presidency. Splashing through West Fork on his horse, he is surprised to see June, also on horseback, watching his approach. They go for a ride and near the south-pasture gate come upon Bob's brother and father. Bob is surprised and greatly pleased at the gracious way his father responds to an introduction to June. Back at the Elkhorn, he oversees an intimate scene between Mr. and Mrs. Straughn which emphasizes in his mind the differences in his life and June's. He feels he can never tell her what is in his heart. Next day, while at their meal, the Evans family hear over the radio that their father has been elected president of the State Stock Growers Association. While the children rejoice over it, Carolyn hurries to the kitchen that they may not see the misery in her eyes,
CHAPTER FOUR
"COME help Mother." Carolyn Evans thrust two small towels into the hands of her twin daughters. "Then you may go with me." "Oh boy, boy!" Judy cried, snatching at a handful of silverware. "Just one," Jerry warned, setting the example by rubbing one knife long and vigorously. Judy watched her a moment. "You take too long," she scolded. "Hurry, or we can't go." "Where are you going?" Carolyn's hands, which had been rapidly and efficiently shuffling dishes, came to an abrupt stop. A feeling of utter helplessness swept over her. Here was the test. "Where are you going?" Slowly she turned and faced her husband. He had come to the kitchen door just in time to hear Judy's words. The determined hardness in his eyes added to her fear. Then the memory of Bob's sarcastic "after all, Mother" stiffened her resolution. She. Took a long breath. "I told Mrs. Straughn I would be her counselor." "You ? you told her that after what I said!" Now was the time to sigh in resignation. Habit was strong. She half turned, then stopped. "Yes, I accepted." Never were words formed with greater difficulty.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 117
Once they were past her lips, the next were easier. "We are helping Bishop put over a ward reunion. I am. Going this afternoon to visit some families who haven't telephones." He laughed shortly. "Imagine! I suppose you will soon be teaching a class, too." Yes, she thought, it is a bit ridiculous. How can I help direct an organization? I cannot teach myself. I am too stupid. It has been years since I tried to learn. I have forgotten how to express a thought; but that look in Bob's eyes, and Turner with his honors... This position of hers was a step in the right direction, and it had a great deal to do with her past and her future?especially her future. "Yes, I might be doing that, too. Will you please hook Bess to the buggy?" The silence was electric. Her lips trembled, but her chin was up. A wild thought came to her?there was admiration in Turner's eyes. That couldn't be. They were too cold and hard. Then Judy finished her knife. She waved her towel. "Hurry, Daddy, or we shall be late." "Hurry, Daddy," Jerry echoed. Then she threw aside her towel. "I don't want to wipe dishes. I want to go with Daddy." Rushing to him, she grasped one levi-clad leg between her arms. "So do I." Judy promptly followed suit and grasped the other leg. "Watch out, Dumplings." For the moment Turner transferred his attention to them. As always in like circumstances, his manner and voice were especially gentle. These twin girls were the pride of his heart. He might bully others, but they bent him to their sweet young wills. "Hurry, then. We are going to help you." He glanced once more at his wife. She had turned back to her work. The situation was new and stirred a faint hope. If he aroused her stubbornness, she would probably go through with it. Mechanically he obeyed the tug at his legs.
WHEN they were gone, Carolyn dropped weakly into a chair. Her legs refused to hold her. Through the window she could see the three headed for the pasture back of the garage. Each girl had firm hold of a long forefinger, and four short legs were trying desperately to keep pace with his long strides. Occasionally, to catch up, they would swing from his arms. Seeing him thus, no one would suspect his power to inspire fear. Fear! For a moment Carolyn considered that. She wasn't actually afraid of him. He would never hurt her physically. She was really afraid of a scene?afraid of a new situation, afraid of his stronger will. Bob's words, and Kane's, had opened her eyes. For the first time in years she caught a glimpse of herself as others might see her. The seeing was not pleasant. "I could have gone to that con-
118 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
vention," she half-heartedly told herself. "I think I could have managed it. But I would have had nothing to wear." A special little wave of agony stabbed at her with the memory of his election. He was always in things, not only in them but of them. Only in his church he made no advancement, if holding positions could be termed advancement. She wondered about that. He had been a logical candidate for several positions in the new ward set-up. She did not know whether or not he had been asked, but his code was such that he would likely refuse because of his home conditions. Perhaps that was why he was so opposed to her accepting a position in the Relief Society. Without her he would advance even faster than he was. She had never entertained his associates, either business or church. Perhaps it would be kinder to him if she would go to Kane. Searching back through her memory, she recalled something else: "He has never denied me anything that I insisted on having. But it is too late now to turn back. We have been traveling different roads for so long. He has hurt me too many times. I could never forget some of the cruel things he has said to me." Springing up, she went back to her work. The dishes were soon in their places in the cupboard. The floor was swept and her clothes changed. Still, she had not heard the buggy. She stepped to the door and looked about anxiously. Then the old sickening feeling returned. Her mind and body were swept with. A paralyzing lethargy. She might have known. He had hooked Bess to the buggy and driven away. She hadn't the faintest idea where. She dropped to the step and sat there motionless. Time and feeling were non-existent. Gradually, insistently, thought came back and with it a slow rising anger. She looked toward the Elkhorn, and though she could not see beyond the pasture the look added to her resentment. She had come this far on a new road. She wasn't turning back. "You have hurt me for the last time, Turner Evans," she said aloud. "From this minute on, I am making a life of my own." Once resolved, she changed quickly to walking shoes and struck south over the foot bridge. He thought he had won, probably was grinning now over his victory. Let him wait. It was cool among the trees. When she reached her Cathedral, she sat down on the log to relax. The work ahead could not be done in this frame of mind.. She must cleanse her heart of rancor. Her lips moved in prayer. She sat and sat. Gradually the cool, tangy air, the peace crowded out the bitter, hard lump in her breast?a process which was facilitated by fifteen years of hard practice. When there was no longer any unrest or resentment in her heart, she arose and went on. Outside the fence, she took the road over which June and Bob had ridden.
OVERSEEING the "west eighty" was Bob's job. The same day that Carolyn was doing her visiting he had been there, and as he rode home through the "bottoms" he was estimating what the crop would bring. "Dad could easily let me have enough for school," he thought. Then later, "Carson is the one that should go to school. If Dad will send him, I will stay home this winter. I can do some extension
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 119
work. If they don't do something about him soon, it will be too late. Besides, June may not go this year." Something was amiss. All at once it came to him that there were no stock grazing between the trees. "I wonder if that fence is down again." Turning his horse, he rode about looking. It was not until he was near the east fence that he came upon some calves. Instead of lying about in the shade as was natural this time of the day, they were moving about and on his approach dashed away. "What the dickens!" As they ran, his practiced eye counted them. One short! He'd better scout around. Besides the calf, there was one of the yearlings missing. When he was sure they were not in the pasture, Bob reasoned, "Surely they could not have left the field without others escaping. It has been a week or two since I have seen that calf, but the yearling was here yesterday." He rode along the fence. At the south gate he stopped. At least one animal had gone through here today. He could see the marks in the soft dirt about the gate. Outside, he examined the tracks. He could not find them farther than the road. That was not strange, for the lane was meadow. The road was marked only by two narrow wheel tracks. Any number of animals passed along here every day. Up the road he could see Mrs. Nelson's cows. They fed along the lane. To trace individual animals would be impossible. That did not alter the fact that two were missing. Bob wrinkled his brow in thought. The animals had been driven out. Who could have done it without arousing suspicion? He whistled in dismay. Could it be possible? Surely?it couldn't be, but the evidence was there! Once before during the summer a calf had disappeared. He had helped fix up their old flivver. Recently, he had bought a tire. Strange that he could have done both, but then Dad was more liberal with Carson. And Carson was always doing unexpected things. He would consider he had a right to them. If he had an accomplice, it could be done. That might be the reason he was hanging around Semples. Jed Taylor wouldn't be above lending his truck or stock trailer. From the gate, there was no house in sight to provide a witness. Arriving at this conclusion, Bob turned back into the field and closed the gate after him. He pushed his horse rapidly along the fence until he came again to West Fork. There was nothing wrong with the fence. He had examined every foot of it. He must keep his thought to himself until he was more sure. To let others suspect would be fatal. As he came into the yard, Bob met his father just driving in from the west. He was in the buggy, and the twins were with him. "Have you taken any stock out of the bottoms?" he asked. "No." In the act of throwing aside the reins, Turner stopped. He tightened them instead. "Are some missing?" "That calf Carson claimed and a yearling." "Is the fence down?" "No. I rode it twice." The father's short temper exploded. "Some one has left that gate down again. I'll fix it this time so it won't happen again." Going into
120 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the blacksmith shop, he came out with pincers and wire. "You ride on back," he told Bob, "and hunt them." As he guided Bess in and out between trees, Turner remembered he hadn't asked Bob if many of the animals had been outside the fence. He thought when he fixed the fence that he had stopped the leak. It was darn peculiar that he had never found that other calf. There were folks who lived by the "finders keepers" motto. One of them could have picked it up, and the Cross Line Company would not question the ownership of a calf offered them for sale, if the price was low enough. At the gate he found the shovel Bob had forgotten. He put it in the buggy and after wiring the gate turned Bess back toward home. They passed the cottonwood grove, and a deep, potent anger rose in him. Instantly, all thoughts of the lost stock were gone. Why was it that for so long he had not been able to reach Carolyn physically, mentally or spiritually? Once her world had centered about him. Now their paths never touched. In power and influence he was growing; his election proved that. But he thought, "It has a bitter taste. What potency is there in power or position when there is no. One with whom to share it? None of it is worth one hour of loving, understanding companionship." Their first years had been hard. He, undoubtedly, had laid too much stress on saving, but Carolyn. Should have been the judge of her limit. She should have made her own estimate of values. And didn't she know their hard years were behind them? She seemed not to think. She was in a stagnant pool mentally and was making no effort to escape. This grove had been her door of ingress, lulling her senses. The harder he pulled the other way the farther in she went. There was no meeting place in sight. "Sit still," he said sharply, as Judy leaned over the back of the buggy seat., She looked at him in astonishment, and her lips puckered. "Daddy," Jerry reproached him, "she wasn't getting over. She was seeing if our flowers are dead." "Forgive me, sweet. I was afraid you would fall." Instantly, both were smothering him with embraces. "You are the best Daddy in the world," Jerry informed him, "but you must not speak naughty to us as you do to Mama." "Out of the mouths of babes," he thought, and then in self-justification, "Mama doesn't kiss me." If she didn't, it was his fault, but she irritated him so. Had she been much different when they were married or had he just thought she was? Perhaps not so different, but a man married a woman not alone for what she was but for what she might become. Whatever the cause, they were up to their necks in this terrible quagmire. Yes, he was in it. In spite of his seeming advance, he knew his was not the rounded, forward advance it should be. He could go ahead so much more satisfactorily if he were free of this frustration. He would never accept responsibility in his church and try to govern others until he had found the way to govern his own,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 121
WHEN Carolyn returned to the gate after making her visits, she was hurrying. It was nearly supper time, and she must get home before the men came in. She had walked miles, and she was not at all tired. She felt exhilarated, freshened. That might be the reason Turner liked to get out among people. She had been so surprised that these women, neighbors really, had so much to give her. Young Pearl Grover, for instance, had shown that a home could be built with very little money. Her nimble fingers were building beauty in the house and out of it?and Carolyn knew she was building it even more effectively in her heart. Pearl had spoken of Turner as if being his wife should be regarded as a privilege. He had so many times come to their rescue with encouragement, or with the loan of a few dollars to tide them over a crisis. Little Mrs. Nelson, who was so handicapped yet so cheerful, supported herself and found time to help Pearl when the younger girl was overburdened with responsibilities. Mrs. Semple, forced by circumstances to keep house for an unappreciative brother, had time to study. Carolyn's attitude toward her had changed completely. She was trying, in the best way she knew, to keep her girls under control. If they were a little rowdy or overemphasized their good times, it was a mistake in method not intent. She did not, however, encourage Carolyn to come again. Oh, yes, and she must not forget to tell the men that she had caught a glimpse of that brindle calf of Carson's running with others, as she went up the lane to Semple's. She had had to wade the river, but that had been fun. She had forgotten how she had once loved the feel of running water over her feet. Once she had loved to fish. When they had first moved up here, she had often put on a pair of Turner's overalls and followed him up and down the river. She could even remember how he had laughed because she looked so ridiculously small in them. Turner could say such beautiful things then. At the gate Carolyn stopped short. It was wired shut. Who could have done that? She had to crawl through the fence, and in doing so she tore her dress on a barb. "The only decent thing I had," she fumed, irritably. "And it can't be fixed. Who in the world wired that gate?" Then at her feet she saw the answer. Tracks of a buggy showed in the dust between clumps of grass. All the pleasant thoughts of the moment before were gone in a flash. "Why should I have just one dress?" she demanded angrily. Then, in surprise, she asked again, "Why should I?" Without in the least realizing it, Carolyn had turned a milestone. The events of the last few days, the hurt of it all, the stimulation of today and perhaps something long interred had integrated and become suddenly a fighting spirit. She would make someone take notice. She wasn't sure just who.
(To be continued)
Relief Society and Social Welfare
THAT Social Service is more than theory in the Relief Society is revealed in the numerous reports coming from the stakes. The Society has always been active in the field of maternity and child welfare, and the Snowflake Stake reports unusual success, At the Presidents Breakfast held during General Relief Society Conference, April, 1937, stake presidents were charged with the responsibility of seeing that practical nurses were available in all of the communities and that mothers be provided with good maternity care. For several years the Snowflake Stake Board had felt a growing need in the community for an increased number of practical nurses and better maternity care. In harmony with instructions, a survey of the stake nursing service was made, revealing a shortage of nurses. After persistent efforts, the county was induced to provide a registered nurse to be stationed in the largest town in the county. The duties of this nurse were to hold maternal and child welfare clinics and to train women for practical nursing. In cooperation with the stake board, a clinic schedule and a plan for training nurses was worked out. A six-weeks nurses' training class was opened November 17, 1937, the county nurse acting as teacher. The class was made up of twenty picked women from thirteen wards of the stake as well as several board members. The Red Cross text book, "Home Hygiene And Care Of The Sick", was used. Red Cross certificates were presented to the women at the conclusion of the course. This course was later repeated with another group of women. The stake board had formerly sponsored immunization. This was now done at the clinics, the state furnishing Serums free of charge. Early in January, 1938, efforts were directed toward securing a maternity hospital. By April, 1938, a trial project was promised, the state agreeing to supply hospital equipment if a suitable building could be provided. One very generous Latter-day Saint gentleman in the community gave permission to use a building he had recently purchased, and paid for remodeling it according to the doctor's specifications. He also paid for furnishings. Generous donations in the form of dishes, layettes, bed linen, canned fruits, vegetables, honey, etc., were made by ward and stake Relief Society organizations, by the County Welfare Board and by individuals. Arrangements were made whereby the State Board of Health agreed to pay the salary of the nurse to be placed in the maternity hospital. In January, 1939, N. Y. A. Girls to do the cooking and laundry work and an N. Y. A. Boy to do the janitor work were promised. A hospital board was organized, the members chosen by the state nurse with the help of the stake Relief Society president, Leonora S. Rogers who was made president of the board, with her two counselors as vice-presidents. Since opening the hospital, January 3, 1939, the state has added one more registered nurse for night service and two practical nurses, Expectant mothers look upon this hospital as a great blessing.
FROM THE FIELD By Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Relief Society Stake Parties Honoring "Members Old, Members New"
North Weber Stake
THE North Weber Stake Relief Society Board annually entertains ward workers at the close of each season's activities. Ericka Soderberg, who is leader of the Work and Business Department, has planned this entertainment for nine successive years, making each party interestingly different from the preceding ones. The close of the 1939 season was marked by a midsummer outing where increased membership was emphasized. Each member of the local organizations was asked to bring as a guest a friend who was not active in the Relief Society and to provide a basket luncheon for herself and guest. The idea was well liked and more than three hundred women attended the party. A program given before luncheon carried out the spirit of comradeship and cooperation. It was arranged by Stake Music Director Eliza R. Kerr and Organist Julia D. Bingham and featured original and surprising numbers. Perhaps outstanding was the "Blue and Gold" drill presented by Mrs. Helvia Upton, stake coordinator, wherein twenty-five women, beautifully costumed, depicted by their various drill formations the objective of reaching the membership goal. The group also sang "Come Buy Our Magazine," a song written especially for the occasion by Stake Magazine Agent Laura M. Jenkins. Mrs. Julia E. Parry, who was president of North Weber Stake Relief Society at the time of this party, has since resigned, and Mrs. Nellie W. Neal was appointed president on September 30, 1939.
South Davis Stake
"MOTHERS' Half Holiday" is the catchy designation for the unusually successful stake-wide mothers' party given annually by the South Davis Stake Relief Society, of which Ella M. Williams is president. The following report of the 1939 entertainment held in May was written by Millie P. Walton, stake coordinator: "Our 'Mothers' Half Holiday' for this year was a splendid success. Over five hundred mothers participated in the delightful program, social and luncheon. The chapel was beautifully decorated with a profusion of garden flowers that lent a gala atmosphere to the occasion. "Especially honored at the beginning of the program were the oldest members, in years of service, from each ward. Forty of these faithful workers, with records of active service ranging from thirty to fifty years, were introduced to the assembly, and each was presented with a lovely corsage. At the program's close, the new members gained during this year's membership drive were featured. The total gain in each ward was announced as each ward group, with its coordinator, was presented.
NEW MEMBERS OF THE SOUTH DAVIS STAKE
As the entire band of new workers took its place on the stage to the strains of our rally song, every one in the audience was thrilled and deeply grateful to know that South Davis Stake, with its 183 new members, had more than doubled its required quota for the year. "The accompanying photograph is of the new members present on that occasion."
Bear River Stake
THE Bear River Stake Relief Society, according to a report by Ella M. Peck, secretary, held a social for the entire membership and for prospective members on September 20, 1939, in Garland, Utah. Each ward had been invited to prepare an exhibit demonstrating a project conducted. During the preceding summer. The following twenty projects had been suggested by the Stake Board for summer work: Any Phase of Homemaking; Proper Table Service; Children's Clothing; Aprons; Cotton Dresses; Home-knit Wearing Apparel; Needlework?any kind; Rug Making?any kind; Flower Display; Flower Arrangement? Stake Board; Homemade Soap; Party Favors; Crochet, Tatting, Netting or any other type of handicraft; Remodeled Clothing; Salads; Handicrafts Brought up to Date; Handicraft of the Pioneers; Homemade Candies, Cookies, Cakes, etc; What is New in Kitchen Equipment, Quilts, Old and New. As a result, the fall display and social featured thirteen ward exhibits, an exhibit by the county nurses, and one by the stake officers, all of which were very fine. A beautiful floral Membership Arch was made by the coordinators and also a very attractive banner in Relief Society colors, with the slogan, "Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand by '42". A special feature of the program was a pageant depicting the Relief Society Magazine under the direction of Stake Representative Zina Stander. Following the program, daughters of the officers served dainty refreshments to the three hundred and fifty women who were present. The Bear River Stake Board has found great value in an annual social for all Relief Society members, which brings the wards together, extends acquaintanceship, and fosters the exchange of ideas. Clara H. Fridal is president of this enterprising stake Relief Society.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The Emotional Content of Music and Its Effect Upon Dynamics By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
IN last month's article was demonstrated the way in which emotional content affects the tempo at which a composition should be conducted. In a similar way we will now attempt to find how the mood affects dynamics. "Dynamics" is a general term that includes all the variations of loudness and softness.. It is even more intangible than tempo, and its use is harder to master, even though a few rather definite rules for its use can be formulated. If each reader will play three chords on the piano?one "soft", one "medium", and one "loud"? we will use them as standards for comparison as we did last month with tempo. How loud should music be played to express joy? How loud for sorrow? Each one will probably say that loudness indicates joy and softness sorrow. This is true only under ordinary conditions. A rule stating how to vary the dynamics would be subject to too many exceptions. A very intense grief will call for more loudness than a moderate gladness. It is not the kind of emotion that most affects the dynamics but the intensity of emotion. The intensity of the mood of a choral composition varies constantly with the words. When a line of words expresses more intense emotion, a crescendo is called for. An important word demands an accent. Unessential words may be sung lightly. By following the words with great care it is possible to work out a very detailed and effective scheme of dynamics. Here are a few rules that will help in working out the details of expression. They are musical rules and do not take the place of the emotional considerations outlined above. One should be modified by the other. 1. When the melody ascends, sing louder; when it descends, softer. 2. Normally, a phrase of music swells in the middle, ending more softly. 3. A long tone or series of repeated tones should not be sung the same loudness throughout. A swell is usually used in this way to escape monotony, but there are many other possibilities. 4. Longer notes are sung louder than shorter ones.. 5. If a phrase or section is repeated, it should not be sung with the same scheme of dynamics both times. In any composition, the dynamics must vary constantly, often from one extreme to the other. Dynamic contrast promotes interest. The loudest point in a piece should be greatly different from the softest. A performance without climax is dull. (There are occasional exceptions.) A climax is not necessarily very loud. It may be any degree of loudness, even very soft. It is set aside as a climax by its contrast in tempo and dynamics from the rest of the piece. When conducting, think of contrast, rather than loudness or softness, and performances will always be interesting. DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 Paul the Writer REFERENCES H. E. Dana, New Testament Criticism, ch. XVI. F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul. Consult table of contents to find particular epistles. See also Appendix, Excursus III. Edgar J. Goodspeed, An Introduction to the New Testament. Consult table of contents to find particular epistles. Kirsopp Lake and Silva Lake, An Introduction to the New Testament, Chaps. V-XV, XX. THE PRESERVATION, NATURE, AND EXTENT OF PAUL'S WRITINGS.?How does it happen that we have any of Paul's letters?- When one considers the fact that early Christianity was subjected to so much persecution from without, and the further fact that apostasy became widespread within, it seems almost a miracle that any of Paul's writings were preserved at all. We should remember, however, that Paul's was a writing age. Books were abundant and the dictation of letters a commonplace. It was relatively easy to multiply and spread abroad copies of sermons or letters of prominent men, whether in or out of the Church. In the days of Paul, the ordinary size of the papyrus sheet used for letter writing was five by ten inches. Papyrus sheets of ordinary grade were often sold in rolls of about twenty sheets. One sheet would cost approximately twenty-five cents in our money. It is not likely that Paul or any of the other apostles ever used more expensive grades of papyrus. Public letter writers or scribes were common then as they are now in the Near East. Paul seems to have dictated most of his letters to such individuals or to competent brethren in the Church who volunteered their services. Note Romans 16-22 where we read: "I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord." Some students may wonder why Paul didn't write the letters himself rather than to dictate them. A glance at Galatians 6:11 may help us to understand. Usually, the body of his letters was written by his amanuensis, but to it he occasionally added a little in his own hand to give a warm personal touch. Thus, in I Connthians 16:21 we find him saying: "The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand." Note also II Thessalonians 3-17 where he says: "The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 127 As already indicated, the fact that the age of Paul was a literary one helped to preserve some of his letters, because they would be copied and sent to many branches of the Church (Col. 4:16) and to individuals as well. But this fact alone would not be sufficient to account for their preservation. An examination of Paul's letters at once shows that they are of great excellence and contain warm personal sentiments that would endear the writer to his audience. In his second letter to the Corinthians (10:10) there is revealed the fact that even his critics had to pay tribute to his writings. "For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful." Judged by a critical audience of Greeks, Paul's personal appearance left much to be desired, but concerning his writings there was no question of their appeal and worth. Paul took care that his letters should be forceful and adequate. That surely helped to preserve them. Another reason?particularly appreciated by Latter-day Saints?that some of Paul's letters were preserved is that ancient branches of the Church kept records. Correspondence, particularly from an apostle, was very likely filed among the local records and preserved. Christ ordered records kept among the Nephites, and there is good reason to suppose that the early church in the Roman world would receive like commands (See III Nephi 23:7-13; D. & C. 7). Partial preservation of Church records through the darkest hours of Roman persecution probably insured for all time that some of Paul's letters would be known to the world. The statement made in D. & C. 93:18 should merit the reader's closest consideration and reflection. Probably many records of the Ancient Church were hidden and will yet come forth. Let us hope that more letters of Paul will be forthcoming. Some writers give the impression that the letters of the great apostle to the Gentiles were written in great haste to meet given situations. This idea is often pressed too far, because a close examination will disclose the fact that most of them were carefully and deliberately thought out. Professor E. F. Scott puts it well when he says, "In Epistles like those to the Romans and Ephesians he presents a sustained argument which must have been fully worked out before pen was put to paper. Even in point of language, the great passages have evidently been composed with studied art. It can be shown by analysis that every word in these passages has been deliberately chosen, the cadence of each sentence has been molded, as in the work of a great poet, with a view to a given effect. Such writing cannot have been improvised. In these letters, which seem to have the ease and naturalness of familiar conversation, Paul has given us the ripest fruits of his mind." Even in a short private letter such as to Philemon, Paul has carefully thought out the substance of the request he makes and, as Dr. Scott observes, never loses sight of the man he is writing to. An interesting allusion is made in II Pet. 3:15, 16 to the difficult matter in certain letters of Paul. "Even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you; As also in all his epistles, speaking 128 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction." Fourteen epistles are traditionally ascribed to Paul. Of these, thirteen bear his name, the one exception being Hebrews which is not thought by many scholars to have been written by the apostle. THE PEOPLE TO WHOM PAUL WROTE.?Scholars have in the past differed widely and still differ as to whether Paul was the author of all the epistles attributed to him. For our purposes here we shall assume that he wrote them all. The people to whom the apostle wrote his letters may for convenience be grouped into two classes: (1) community groups in the various branches of the Church, and (2) individuals. The first class includes those mentioned in Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Thessalonians and Hebrews. The second includes Timothy, Titus and Philemon. Now what kind of people were those included in the first group? It is often erroneously supposed that the "Romans," "Corinthians," "Hebrews," etc., to whom Paul wrote were all peoples of distinctly separate nationalities. That is not so. As a matter of fact, many of the "Romans," "Corinthians," "Galatians," etc., were Hebrews, being Jews. On the other hand, some of the "Hebrews" were possibly Romans in a double sense; that is, they were either Roman citizens?Paul is a good example?or called Romans because they lived in Rome; they may have been "Corinthians" simply by virtue of the fact that they lived in Corinth?and so on. The chances are very good that a large proportion of Paul's converts in the Roman world were Jews either by birth or by conversion. Professor J. G. Machen has fittingly said: "It is hard to exaggerate the service which was rendered to the Pauline mission by the Jewish synagogue. One of the most important problems for every missionary is the problem of gaining a hearing. The problem may be solved in various ways. Sometimes the missionary may hire a place of meeting and advertise; sometimes he may talk on the street corners to passers-by. But for Paul the problem was solved. All that he needed to do was to enter the synagogue and exercise the privilege of speaking, which was accorded with remarkable liberality to visiting teachers. In the synagogue, moreover, Paul found an audience not only of Jews but also of Gentiles; everywhere the 'God-fearers' were to be found. These Gentile attendants upon the synagogues formed not only an audience but a picked audience; they were just the class of persons who were most likely to be won by the Gospel preaching. In their case, much of the preliminary work had been accomplished; they were already acquainted with the doctrine of the one true God; they had already, through the lofty ethical teaching of the Old Testament, come to connect religion with morality in a way which is to us a matter-of-course but was very exceptional in the ancient world. Where, as in the market-place at Athens, Paul had to begin at the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 129
very beginning, without presupposing this previous instruction on the part of his hearers, his task was rendered far more difficult. "Undoubtedly, in the case of many of his converts he did have to begin in that way; the First Epistle to the Thessalonians, for example, presupposes, perhaps, converts who turned directly from idols to serve the living and true God. But even in such cases the 'God-fearers' formed a nucleus; their manifold social relationships provided points of contact with the rest of the Gentile population. The debt which the Christian Church owes to the Jewish synagogue is simply measureless." Many of the Gentiles converted to the Church were Greeks or other people brought under the sway of Roman rule. Of the individuals in the second group Timothy was the son of a Greek father and a Jewish mother (Acts 16:1-3); Titus was a Greek and so presumably was Philemon.
LOST EPISTLES OF PAUL.? It is clear from Paul's letters that he wrote others that are now lost. In fact, it is quite probable that we have only a few of those he actually wrote. When writing I Corinthians, Paul makes mention of a previous letter he had written. "I wrote unto you in an epistle," he says (5:9). The same thing probably occurs in II Cor. 2:4. "For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears." This epistle seems to have come in point of time between our I Corinthians and II Corinthians. Paul says of it later (II Cor. 7:8), "For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season." Note also Col. 4:16 where Paul urges that "When this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the Church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea." The letter from Laodicea is thought by some to be our Ephesians. In the oldest list of Paul's letters known to us, that of Marcian (c. A. D. 140), it appears by the title of "Laodiceans". All of these facts helps to make the writings of Paul more interesting and understandable to us.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit)
1. Let a member of the class report on writing materials and writing in Paul's day.
2. What were the circumstances that called forth Paul's letters to the Galatians and the Thessalonians?
Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 8 Unselfishness
"Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."?Mark 12:31.
THE second great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," is illustrated in a concrete way in that notable story of The Good Samaritan. ?Luke 10. The selfishness of the Priest and the Levite with all their hypocritical pretensions of righteousness are exposed in contrast with the sincere helpfulness of the despised Samaritan. The moral obligation to be unselfish is expressed in the golden rule stated by Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount: "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets." This thought has been expressed in slightly different language in the teachings of ancient Chinese and Hindu sages. It is contained in a final admonition of one of the wisest Americans of the last generation, Charles W. Elliott: "America must cling to ideals and promote them. Selfishness is no less fatal to national than to individual fulfillment. "The minute you begin to think of yourself only you are in a bad way. You cannot develop because you are choking the source of development, which is spiritual expansion through thought for others. Selfishness always brings its own revenge; it cannot be escaped. "Be unselfish. That is the first and final commandment for those who would be useful, and happy in their usefulness."
Discussion
1. Explain why selfishness is fatal to individual fulfilment.
2. How may selfishness be overcome?
3. Where should effort to live the Golden Rule begin?
Department of Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 8 "The Bent Twig"
IN the development of The Bent Twig, the three characteristics of the modern novel are admirably set forth. The setting, which includes the time, the places, and the background or enveloping circumstances of the story, is in perfect keeping with the narrative as it is related. It often is the cause of what happens. The plot is the real frame work which gives shape and proportion to the work. It is most essential;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 131
though, as in other modern novels, it is often very faintly drawn. In most novels there is usually a main thread with others woven together. Sylvia Marshall's life and the series of events bearing directly or indirectly upon her character form the main thread or plot of The Bent Twig. There are many characters in the book, and they are well worth knowing, for they are real. These characters determine the plot, not the plot the characters. The character sketches are of New England people, everyday types, drawings of real people with a penetration into their innermost thoughts and feelings. They show a cross section of life, as it were, and are not merely a fictional portrayal. The values emphasized are always the ordinary human values, the universal experiences, as the characters in The Bent Twig live and express themselves. The Nation has this to say of Sylvia: "The lovely, the self-willed, the covetous, the petty intriguer and poser, who yet fights in vain against the deeper principles of pure and noble. Action which are her heritage. Hers is a type more common in America perhaps than elsewhere. Mrs. Fisher has studied it with sympathy and without sentimentality." Book I comes to a close with the end of childhood, a simple but realistic picture of people who are brave and good and true. Sylvia is beginning to see things for herself, how the other members of the faculty regard her father. "Sylvia understood the accent and tone of this passage more than the exact words, but it summed up and brought home to her in a cruelly clarified form her own groping impressions. The moment was a terribly painful one for her. Her heart swelled, the tears came to her eyes, she clenched her fists. Her fine, lovely and sensitive face darkened to a tragic intensity of resolve. She might have been the young Hannibal, vowing to avenge Carthage. What she was saying to herself passionately was, 'When I get into the University, I will not be a jay!' "It was under these conditions that Sylvia passed from childhood and emerged into the pains and delights and responsibilities of self-consciousness." Book II is one of the most important parts of the entire novel. One has the feeling that it was of this portion particularly that F. T. Cooper was thinking when he wrote for the Book of the Month Review: "It impresses one chiefly with a sense of its durability, as being one of the books we so seldom meet which will wear well, books that it is a pleasure to take down from the shelf at intervals and read over again, in part or in whole.... Sylvia's mother is one of the best and truest and most thoroughly real types of American womanhood to be met with in the fiction of recent years." This picture of the young girl steadily developing into womanhood under the influence of an intelligent, tender, understanding mother is one of the finest examples of proper guidance and its reward that is to be found in any book, fiction or non-fiction. It is a splendid example of the theory in character education that youth must be grounded in correct principles but that freedom of choice in making important personal decisions must be left to them; otherwise, they will
132 ? FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be robbed of the very power that will be necessary to sustain them in resisting temptation and in reaching proper decisions in important crises. The visit to Chicago was Sylvia's first sight of modern civilization with its joys and discomforts and life as her Aunt Victoria lived it. There is a most pathetic forecast of what Arnold's life is to be and the part environment plays. Sylvia's mother and Aunt Victoria stand out much more clearly drawn by the striking contrast one presents to the other. The visit to the large hospital is an index to the path sister Judith will follow. The chapter "An Instrument in Tune" is a subtle yet most thrilling recital of what true marriage can mean to a high-souled man and woman. Professor Marshall decided to bring Lawrence and join his wife and daughters in Chicago. As they meet, the child exclaims, "Father brungded me," clasping his arms tightly around the mother's neck. "We got so lonesome for Mother we couldn't wait." Sylvia had stamped on her mind a picture which was to come back later, her father's face and eyes as he ran down the steps to meet his wife.... "Yes, Buddy's right! We found we missed you so, we decided life wasn't worth it. You don't know, Barbara, what it's like without you?you don't know." "Higher Education" is a fine description of Sylvia's preparation for college under the direction of her parents and their chosen instructors. It is also an excellent description of life in a coeducational mid-western university. This chapter and those that follow, while they are not autobiographical, have woven into them many of the author's own experiences, ideals and philosophy. The problems presented are not uncommon to mothers with daughters, all over the land. Sylvia's experience is by no means uncommon when her pride is so seriously hurt because rival sororities pass her by in her freshman year. The reason, carefully concealed from her, is that her parents are queer and attract to their servantless home the odd members of the faculty. It is small wonder that her vanity was flattered and her self-confidence restored when through her great beauty and charm she attracted the attention and won the favor of the wealthiest and most influential upper classman. For a time her head was turned by social success. There are "Mrs. Drapers" in every community, and temporarily her influence over Sylvia was strong. In the chapter "Mrs. Marshall Sticks to Her Principles" one feels that the author is speaking from the depths of her own convictions, and the conversation between the father and mother is one that all parents might do well to read. In the end, the mother is justified; when suddenly temptation presents itself to Sylvia, she recoils from it in disgust and instinctively turns to the protection of her parents. The interview with Mrs. Fiske, Sylvia's sense of shame over the yellow chiffon dress which she would not have her mother see, her precipitate flight home, are all related with the bitterness, hope and intensity of emotion which lie unsuspected in even the plainest of people. As her mother had predicted, the same vigor that made her resist her parents when she accepted the invitation to the Fiske house party now made her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 133
strong enough to resist temptation when she met it. There is nothing finer in the book than the soul-revealing conversation between Sylvia and her mother following Sylvia's last interview with worldly Mrs. Draper, whose influence now was to produce in the girl a "moral nausea". The whole world was sickened and darkened for Sylvia before she sought her mother's counsel. "Sylvia gazed with wide eyes at the older woman's face, ardent, compelling, inspired, feeling too deeply, to realize it wholly, the vital and momentous character of the moment. She seemed to see nothing, to be aware of nothing but her mother's heroic eyes of truth; but the whole scene was printed on her mind for all her life.... The very breath of the pure, scentless winter air was to come back to her nostrils in after years. 'Sylvia,' her mother went on, 'it is one of the responsibilities of men and women to help each other to meet on a high plane and not on a low one. And on the whole?health is the rule of the world?on the whole, that's the way the larger number of husbands and wives, imperfect as they are, do live together. Family life wouldn't be possible a day if they didn't.... Sylvia dear, don't let anything make you believe that there are not as many decent men in the world as women, and they're just as decent. Life isn't worth living unless you know that?and it's true." Sylvia went back to her college work and to her music. Her development was sane and steady, maturing her strength and womanliness and intellectual power. The author's style is fluent and clear, and the narrative consistently maintains a note that is wholesome and earnest. The ideas and ideals that have shaped our national life are brought into prominence. While it can be truthfully said of the whole story, Book II more than any other part shows the developing American spirit which finds its greatest interest in a search for social harmony. Above all, it shows the opportunity offered in this land and the glory of a free life on a small income, when directed by such a spirit as Sylvia's mother.
Questions and Suggestions
1. (a) Define the essential characteristics of the modern novel. (b) Explain the influence of one upon the other.
2. Read Book II and compare it with Book I.
3. Tell why The Bent Twig is an excellent portrayal of character development and the influence of environment.
4. Name some of the social problems suggested.
5. Point out some of the most dramatic episodes in this part of the novel. Give your reactions to these.
Social Service Lesson 8 Psychology of Happy Living
I. "RELIGION OF HEALTHY MINDEDNESS."
If we reflect carefully on the nature of life and happiness, we are forced to the conclusion that the world of natural events is neither good nor bad. How we value these events is a personal matter. What our "luck" is doesn't matter so much as "how we take it'. Whether life is worth living depends upon us much more than upon circumstances outside ourselves. To say there is no evil is as erroneous as to say there is nothing good in life, and there are unhappy victims of both extremes. The most permanent kind of happiness is based upon a clear recognition of the evils of the world, not upon ignoring or denying their existence. When we intelligently recognize the dark side of life, such as the fact that death will finally call us all, we set about fortifying ourselves against the shock of the inevitable. We first do all in our power to live wisely in order to avoid the unpleasant things. Then, we try to see that even those events we call evil or detrimental to our happiness are somehow a part of the scheme of things and that eventually all will turn out for the best, although perhaps not until some distant time in the hereafter will we fully appreciate this fact. But on the plane of everyday events, there are phases of life that may be either good or bad, depending upon our ability to make the best of our circumstances. Some people are blessed with the happy quality of seeing something humorous in the everyday disappointments and misfortunes. This quality keeps them from brooding over little things until they become habitually pessimistic. Most things we pass day by day do not scream out at us and say, "Here am I, Beauty, or Truth, or Love. I will make you happy." On the contrary, we must be on the lookout continually for that part of each day's events which may contribute to our joy. If we set happiness as our goal, we may miss the little joys along the way which really constitute happiness. Happiness is a byproduct of what we do, not an end in itself. Happiness is created in very deed by our reading a happy meaning into the world in which we live. Some skeptics might say that this philosophy is so much "romantic moonshine", but the fact remains that happiness is created by our expecting intelligently the best there is in life, and living as though life is good. We can find either good or bad in almost every day's experiences, depending on which we expect. Happiness depends upon how we respond, not so much upon the facts of the outside world. A beautiful piece of classical music may bore us, whereas it thrills someone else who has learned to respond appropriately to it. A large part of education consists of teaching us to appreciate that which is beautiful. Brigham Young stated this in his definition of education as the ability to think, act, and appreciate.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 135
The habit of happiness is closely related to the habit of success discussed in Lesson 6, "The Psychology of Personal Efficiency". When we feel we are succeeding, we find it easier to see the best side of life; when we are failing, it is easy to ignore the good. We, therefore, conclude that if we would be happy we must be successful first. But success is such a relative matter. Happiness can grow out of success in very common things, quite within the reach of all of us. Happiness is found as often in common as it is in high places, if not more often. It isn't where we live, but how we live that makes the difference between happiness and unhappiness. Successful achievement at whatever we undertake contributes to happiness, be our occupation ever so humble.
II. HOW SHALL WE TEST OUR BELIEFS?
Happiness is of such a nature that it grows naturally out of our struggles to make a better world. Perhaps a certain amount of pain and disappointment is necessary in order to achieve happiness. Contrast between sorrow and joy seems to be a condition for happiness. The secret of happy living lies in our ability to take a positive view of life as a whole. To do this, we must have an abiding faith in the order and purpose of all things. He who has no faith in the final outcome of the earthly struggle may become lost in the depths of despair. He who believes is not completely spared from disappointment and sorrow, but he is much better prepared to recover from them, through the simple salvation found in the faith that after all "man is that he might have joy". In fact, this simple test is one of the most convincing proofs that the object of our faith is true. Belief, if carried out in life, helps to prove itself. In our previous lesson on superstitions, we saw that wishes often are the mother of our beliefs. If this is so, how shall we test our faiths to determine which are true and which are simply superstitions born of the "will to believe'? The best test is that suggested by Jesus, that "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God". (John 7: 16.) If a belief or faith can be acted out in daily life, and we are made permanently happier thereby, we would say that our faith is well founded. Overstreet speaks of this test as follows: "What, then, in this world, is 'reality', and how can it be found? The simplest answer is that reality is what can be acted out, and the way to find it is to act it out. "Is two plus two equals four a reality? Try it and see. Is good faith a reality? Again, the proof is in the trying. If persistent deception works with a continuous and unbroken effectiveness, it must be accounted a reality. Of course, in one sense, it is a reality. That is, each act of deception, as a psychological happening, is a reality. But what is implied in an act of deception is that this is a way of successful life. It is this implication which is either a reality or an unreality. The test is 'try and see'. In this particular case, man has rejected lying as an 'unreal' way of life, for he has seemed to find that in the long run it really does not work." (Overstreet, H. A., The Enduring Quest, pp. 134, 135.)
136 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We have shown in the previous lesson that there are so many limitations to our knowledge that if we were to act only when we have complete knowledge of the outcome, we should probably never act on the most important questions of life. If we were to wait for complete knowledge as to the outcome of a marriage and rearing a family, for example, we should probably remain forever celibate; were we to wait for complete knowledge as to the outcome of pursuing our chosen vocation, we should remain forever without accomplishment. Likewise, if we were to wait for complete knowledge of the existence of God and the reality of the hereafter, we should certainly not live and work toward the higher rewards of a religious life. But we do believe, we do have faith in these unseen realities; and when we live as if we had complete assurance of their existence, and our lives are made more worth living by so believing and acting, to that extent we prove that our faith is founded on truth. When we live as if God and the hereafter are realities, we are able to withstand the disappointments and tragedies which inevitably will strike us. There is nothing to lose by believing, and much to gain; but by disbelieving we lose considerable happiness in this life, and we may lose greatly in the hereafter by living as though the unseen world is not real. Now, faith works out in our lives in a most practical way. The sick who lie at death's door often hang in the balance, and a strong faith in the power of prayer often stimulates the vital reserves of the afflicted one and turns the course of the illness toward recovery; whereas, despair and lack of faith might in a very natural way make the difference between life and death. All the way through life, we find that our faith in the best side of existence tends to make a reality of what we believe. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young surely could not have had the physical and mental vitality to accomplish what they did for the Kingdom of God had it not been for their faith, which released their vital reserves.
III. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE GOOD THINGS IN LIFE?
We can greatly improve our ability to respond to the world in such a manner as to find happiness. For one thing, we can search for truth and make the world more interesting by simply knowing about it. We often hear discussions as to the value of a liberal education, and whether or not we can prove that such an education improves our chances of financial success. Whatever the true answer may be, there is little doubt that a liberal education helps us to enjoy the world we live in, although education may not always lead to wealth. The great panorama of world events today, although not uniformly a source of joy, gives us something in which to be keenly interested. Do you read your daily newspaper with regularity? If not, you can easily learn to enjoy so doing, if you will try long enough to catch the thread of what is going on in the world. History, literature, various branches of natural science, and the social studies? these and many other fields lie before you, and we need not go to college nor travel abroad to explore new worlds. Knowledge for
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 137
its own sake is one of our great sources of satisfaction, because acquiring knowledge means enlarging ourselves through acquaintance with a larger world. Bertrand Russell, an English philosopher, considers knowledge one of the main goals of right living: "It is obvious also that desire for knowledge is to be encouraged, since the knowledge that a man acquires is not obtained by taking it away from someone else; but a desire for (say) a large landed estate can only be satisfied in a small minority." (Philosophy, p. 235.)
However, knowledge, like faith, without works is often dead. Another extensive and good part of life is the joy of doing, the joy of constructing something, the joy of activity for its own sake (which we call play), and the joy of helping a person in need. There is always a danger that too much seeking after knowledge will interfere with the delight we should take in doing as well as knowing. Starch says, "It is important to act, it. Is more important to think, but the most important thing of all is to think and act." We say that "knowledge is power", but knowledge is not really power until translated into action. Then, there is joy in seeing beauty. In the first chapter of Genesis, after each act of creation, we are told that "God saw that it was good". Henry Van Dyke, in his The Gentle Life, spoke as follows of the value of appreciating the beauties of nature: "There is more of God in the peaceable beauty of this little wood-violet than in all the angry disputations of the sects. We are nearer heaven when we listen to the birds than when we quarrel with our fellow men. I am sure that none can enter into the spirit of Christ,... Save those who willingly follow His invitation when He says, 'Come ye yourselves apart into a lonely place, and rest a while.' For since His blessed kingdom was first established in the green fields, by the lakeside, with humble fishermen for its subjects, the easiest way into it hath ever been through the wicket-gate of a lowly and grateful fellowship with nature.... Do you think that to be blind to the beauties of earth prepareth the heart to behold the glories of heaven?" Finally, there is joy in finding and encouraging righteousness in the world. We still see in the world many great acts of generosity and kindness which make us feel that life is good. In spite of the political and moral corruption to be found by looking for it, there are still many unselfish and valiant servants of the public good. The scoundrels should not make us lose faith in the saints, but we should learn to distinguish one from the other and to make partnership with greatness in others when we find it. More concretely, life is worth living for those who see other people as a source of joy. Friendship as a way of life is highly to be commended. Cheerfulness and serenity, which spring from deep faith and the habit of looking for the happy side of life, are rewards in themselves because the happy soul makes others happy; and his world, therefore, is directly a better place in which to live. Bertrand Russell commended in these words love as a way of life: "It is clear that... Love is better than hate, since, when
138 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
two people love each other, both can be satisfied, whereas when they hate each other one at most can achieve the object of his desire.... The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge." (Philosophy, p. 235-)
IV. SEVEN RULES FOR HAPPY LIVING.
Daniel Starch, a prominent applied psychologist, became interested in what rules average people considered important guides to living. He gave a list of about 300 statements to about 600 people from all walks of life and asked them to check those they had found to be the most valuable maxims. He then grouped together all of the statements which seemed to express the same essential thought. The following seven thoughts were found to be considered most important. They may serve as a general summary of this lesson: 1. "Do unto others as you would that they should do unto you." "The only way to have a friend is to be one." 2. "Know thyself." By this is meant to learn to understand others as well as to understand ourselves. 3. "Anything that is worth doing at all is worth doing well." "Life is what you make it." "Don't postpone unpleasant things?get rid of them." 4. "The great essentials of happiness are something to do, something to love and something to hope for." "Happiness is a working of the soul in the way of excellence." "The pleasant things in the world are pleasant thoughts, and the great art of life is to have as many of them as possible." 5. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." "Knowledge is power." "Responsibilities gravitate to the persons who can shoulder them and power flows to the man who knows how." 6. "Be calm and self-possessed, know what you are about, be sure you are right, then go ahead and don't be afraid." 7. "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean thou not to thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths." "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." In working out our own philosophy of life, some of the points of this lesson may be helpful. Let us remember, however, that a philosophy of life is a way of living, and only by testing out our plan by living it can we improve upon it and make it serve our lives to the fullest extent. "But be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves."
Problems for Discussion
1. Show how the value of life to us depends upon us more than upon external circumstances.
2. What is the danger of failing to admit the darker side of life?
3. What do you consider is the best test of your beliefs?
4. How does deep religious faith contribute to the habit of happiness?
References
1. Durant, Will. The Mansions of Philosophy, New York: Simon and Schuster, 1929, pp. 624-665.
2. Overstreet, H. A. The Enduring Quest, New York: Norton, 1931, pp. 129-139.
3. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 593-623.
Education for Family Life
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 8 My Home Is My Refuge
IS my home my refuge, my haven of peace and happiness? If my answer is in the affirmative, I am numbered among the more fortunate. If my answer is in the negative, I should ask myself why, and what I can do about it. According to Webster, a refuge is a shelter or protection from danger or distress; a stronghold which protects by its strength, or a sanctuary which secures safety by its sacredness; a place inaccessible to an enemy. The trend of civilization, as we have suggested before, has been from the natural to the artificial, from the simple to the complex, until we now are living in a world of stress and strain, of speed and greed that is causing no little concern as to how much more the nervous system of the human individual can stand. Of this we are certain, we must provide sanctuaries wherein one may gain occasional surcease from the strenuousness of modern living. The home and the church are the two institutions in society which are peculiarly adapted to serve as harbors of peace and security. What is a home? Dr. Ernest R. Groves says: "Don't find fault with your home unless you know what a home is for. A good home is not merely a place to be comfortable. It is the house that furnishes comforts, and a home is more than a house. The house originated from the need of physical comforts. The windbreak hut and cave were found good places to go to when the storm broke. "The home came differently. It started to satisfy human need. Service was its basis. The house sheltered the family. The home WAS the family. It was the working together of the different members of the family for the welfare of all. "The house is for comfort, the home for character-building. The trouble with many people who have unhappy homes is that they attempt to have the pleasures of a well managed house and none of the obligations of a home." It is not our purpose to discuss the house aspect of the home further than to say that the house we live in, whether it be a one-room apartment or a palace, must be orderly and well kept; it must reflect the care and attention of one who has a love of home. Would that all might be in a position to enjoy the modern comforts and conveniences that science has made available for the house. But in the name of happiness in family living, would that none might be made unhappy because of the lack of luxuries. Most of us must accumulate slowly and at the price of the denial of many other wants the conveniences that go to make an ideally equipped modern house. It is far wiser to wait and sacrifice and accumulate slowly than to buy beyond one's income. This very struggle shared by husband and wife will bring joy and satisfaction, 140 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
especially if both have the attitude toward home expressed by J. Hamilton: "A cottage, if God be there, will hold as much happiness as might stock a palace." If our home is to be our refuge, it will be because of the nature of the human relationships and not because of the physical aspects. Again we quote from Hamilton: "Six things are requisite to create a happy home: Integrity must be the architect, and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all, as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except blessing of God." It has been our aim throughout the course of lessons to suggest practices that would make for wholesome relationships within the family so that harmony and peace and the Spirit of God would be ever present, thus assuring each member of the group a home from which they might depart in the morning for their daily work with a light heart and a desire and determination to carry on irrespective of the vicissitudes the hours may bring, and to serve also as a place of refuge to which each member at eventide is anxious to return in order to recreate himself and enjoy the companionship of his loved ones; for, as Goethe says, "He is the happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home." At evening, home is the best place for man. It has not been our purpose in the preceding lessons to picture family life as a Utopia free from all cares, worries and conflicts. It goes without saying that where there are human beings living in a relationship as constant and as intimate as is the relationship between husband and wife, and between parents and children, there will always be a certain number of problems and conflicts to be solved. We are cognizant of the fact that these difficulties will not adjust themselves, that only through an intelligent understanding of the principles of group living will we be able to minimize conflicts. We should be wary of the tendency to adjust to our problems rather than to adjust our problems; however, some problems call for both types of adjustment. The value Washington Irving gave to the home is well stated in the following quotation: "It was the policy of the good old gentleman to make his children feel that home was the happiest place in the world; and I value this delicious home-feeling as one of the choicest gifts a parent can bestow." Practically every student of the family has his own pet ideas concerning a reform program for the conservation of the family: Some advocate legislative reform, changes in marriage laws and in divorce laws; some would bring back many of the family practices that were in use a century or so ago and have now been discarded; some advocate that married women should not be employed outside the home; some would have every woman trained in home economics; some say there can be no successful family life without home ownership. We might go on and enumerate other suggestions that have been offered as recipes for successful family living. Undoubtedly,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 141
there is some virtue in all of the suggestions offered. However, each family should study its own needs and deficiencies and compound its own prescription for successful family living, discarding those practices that are not working well, introducing new practices that will probably work and retaining those practices that have proved helpful. In this manner, it will be possible to modify family practices as may be necessary in order to have the family function in this world of today. In conclusion, we offer some do's and do not's for family living that have been found of worth in promoting peace and harmony in some homes that are looked upon as a place of refuge by the members of the family. Such places have been referred to as "Home, the spot of earth supremely blest, a dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest." Constantly and tenderly cultivate the seeds of love and affection that were sown during the courtship period before marriage. Do not judge your mate by yourself; your mate is a member of the opposite sex, therefore is different. Try to understand and appreciate the differences and judge your mate accordingly. Do not disparage your mate. Remember that during periods of fatigue and worry the most amiable person may become irritable. Therefore, every housewife should so manage her household duties that she can have a period of rest in the afternoon; then, it will not be necessary for her to unload the care of the children and other duties on her husband as soon as he returns home after the day's work. Every man who is responsible for the economic support of his family has a strenuous struggle from day to day. If the wife realizes this, she will arrange for her husband to have a half-hour or so for rest or relaxation when he returns home in the evening. This time he will use as he wishes, undisturbed. After he has enjoyed such a period, he will be ready to assist in sharing whatever responsibilities require his assistance. A problem that appears as big as a mountain when one is hungry may appear merely a trivial incident after one has been well fed. Strive to become all that your mate could wish for in a close companion. Whenever conflict arises, each mate should answer honestly this question: To what extent is my own selfishness responsible for this situation? Engage in prayer frequently, for prayer drives away perplexity and trouble and leaves in their place peace and unity. Agree to live so that each will feel worthy to have the Spirit of God in his heart, and the Spirit of God will make of the most humble home a place of peace and harmony, a refuge of happiness.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What three practices in your family do you consider to be most valuable in promoting happiness?
2. Mr. A and Mr. B are men of the same age, engaged in the same kind of occupations, are on the same financial level, and each has a wife and four children near the same ages. Mr. A says that after he has worked all day he is entitled to spend an hour at the Club. Mr. B is a member of the same club, but he says that as soon as he has finished his day's work the sooner he can get home the happier he is. What explanation can you suggest for the difference in the attitude of the two men toward home? Be specific.
Mission Lessons
L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 8 The Church Moves West
THE mission to the Indians, of which we spoke in the preceding lesson, did not succeed in the sense that the natives were converted. A government agent in charge there, fearing that the message of the elders might over-excite them, forbade the white men to preach among them. And so Elders Cowdery and Pratt returned to Independence, which was a white settlement. As we already know, the purpose of the missionaries was to see if they could not interest the red men in the book about their forefathers. But the Lord, it seems, had another purpose in mind when he called these men to the frontier. You may remember that we mentioned this purpose in the preceding lesson, without saying what it was. For no sooner had the missionaries taken their departure than the Lord revealed to his prophet that the destiny of the New Movement lay in the West. It would appear, then, that the main aim of the expedition under Elder Cowdery was to prepare the way for the westward journey of the Church. Of course, the Church was not to go all the way to the West at once. As we know now, it was rather to go there by easy stages, gathering experiences on the way. For it was to be many years before the New Movement found its bitter way to what is now Utah.
WHILE the Indian mission was on the Missouri, two visitors from Kirtland, Ohio, came to Fayette, where the Prophet was living. They were Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge. At this time they were about forty-five years old. Rigdon, as we know already, was a member of the Church, but Partridge was not. Partridge had come to investigate further. He wanted to see the Prophet. He was baptized, however, the next day after he arrived. When these two men went back to their home, Joseph and his wife went with them. After that the Prophet and Emma made their home in Kirtland. In the spring of 1831 all the Saints living in New York moved to Ohio. They numbered about one hundred and eighty persons in all. Some of them settled in Kirtland, some in Mentor, where Rigdon lived, and some in a town near Kirtland, called Thompson. These emigrants, together with the one hundred and twenty already in Ohio, brought the membership of the new Church to about three hundred persons. That was not at all a poor showing in less than a year. A few converts had been made by the missionaries to the Indians, too. And then see how far-flung the organization was! With the arrival of the first birth-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 143
day of the new Church we find its headquarters, not in Fayette, New York, but in Kirtland, Ohio. Here some changes took place in the organization itself.
AT first, the only officers in the organization were a first and a second elder. These were Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Elder Cowdery held the office, also, of clerk, or historian. It was understood that the Prophet, as the first elder, should receive all the revelations for the Church. This simple organization was sufficient as long as the Church was just a large family, so to speak. But when it began to spread out and to increase in membership, some more offices became necessary. From the beginning, there were two degrees of priesthood in the Church?the Aaronic, or lesser, and the Melchizedek, or higher. In January, 1832, Joseph Smith was acknowledged as President of the High Priesthood. The Aaronic Priesthood, as you know, includes the offices of deacon, teacher, and priest; the Melchizedek, the offices of elder, seventy, and high priest. It was in Kirtland that the offices of seventy and high priest were created. When, therefore, the Prophet was acknowledged as President of the High Priesthood, it was the same as though he had been acknowledged as President of the Church, though this name did not come to be used till some time afterwards. A little more than a year later? on March 18, 1833?Joseph Smith was sustained as President of the Church. He chose as his counselors Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams. At this time Oliver Cowdery was in Missouri, editing a Church paper, The Evening and Morning Star. Thus, the organization stood until February, 1835, when the first quorum of Apostles in this dispensation was organized. The names of the men comprising this body of priesthood are: Thomas B. Marsh, David W. Patten, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, William E. McLellin, Parley P. Pratt, Luke S. Johnson, William Smith, Orson Pratt, John F. Boynton, and Lyman E. Johnson. These men were chosen by the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon. The twelve Apostles are special witnesses of Christ in all the world, and are under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency. In December following?December 18, 1833?the first Presiding Patriarch of the Church was selected and ordained. He was Joseph Smith, Sr., father of the Prophet. The duty of the Patriarch is to give blessings to the members of the Church, who come to him for this purpose. Then, in the same year, the first quorum of Seventy was organized. Their names are: Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, James Foster, Daniel S. Miles, Josiah Butterfield, Salmon Gee, and John Gaylord. The Seventies work under the direction of the Apostles and the First Presidency. You will notice some new names in these two lists of men, names that we have never come upon before. This means that the Church, during these four years, continued to grow. As a matter of fact, it grew very rapidly. By 1835 it numbered many thousands. There were converts in
144 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
all the States of the American Union and in Canada.
IT soon became clear that the home of the new Church was not to be Kirtland, in Ohio, but Jackson county, in Missouri. When the Saints who lived in Colesville, New York, went to the West, they decided that they would like to go together. And that is what they did. There were about sixty of them at this time. They arrived in Ohio in a body. The Prophet, to whom these people were especially dear, asked them to settle in Thompson for the time being. In the summer of 1831, however, it was decided that the "Colesville Branch," as they came to be called, should go to Jackson county, Missouri. That place, it had been revealed, was to be the future home of the Saints, and there a magnificent temple was to be built. Other Saints joined the Saints from New York, till there was a large number of them on the way to "Zion," as the new home was called. "Zion," as you may know, means "the pure in heart". Latter-day Saints continued to settle in Jackson county till, by the year 1833, there were about twelve hundred of them in that place. They bought land there; they cultivated it; they built houses and barns; they established a school; they set up a press and published a periodical, The Morning and Evening Star; they began to publish the revelations to the Prophet in a book. Meantime, missionaries went everywhere in the United States, especially in Ohio, where they made many converts. And everywhere the various gifts of the Spirit were manifest?healing of the sick, speaking in new tongues, prophecy, casting out of evil spirits, and other gifts, such as were common in the early Church in Palestine. During this period, also, the principle of gathering was taught, the gathering place being Jackson county, Missouri. Of course, Kirtland was not abandoned. It was not desirable that everyone should go to Zion at the same time. And so Kirtland was built up. We shall see presently that a temple was erected there and dedicated. Everything looked bright for the new Church.
Questions
1. What was the purpose of the Indian mission? Did it succeed in that? What was another purpose?
2. What two places did the Saints occupy at this time? How many did they number when they went to Kirtland?
3. What new officers appear at this time? Tell about each.
4. What does the word "Zion" mean? Where was "Zion"?
5. How many Saints went there? How successful was the Church elsewhere?
Note: Map printed in the July issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.
The Relief Society Magazine
