The Miracle that is Spring
In all ages rhymesters and singers have delighted to give expression to mankind's never-ceasing wonder at nature's rebirth at springtime. All of us joyfully respond in some way to the power that transforms the sombre face of nature into a thing of beauty. To beautify, to improve and to plan for the future, are common human reactions to the stimulus of spring. The housewife who cleans her home and tends her garden is actuated by the same urge to improve as the business man who scans his organization with an eye to improving the service he renders. In our business as printers and binders, we have always aimed at giving our customers the best possible printing or binding for the price charged. See us or write us next time you need something in our line.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
Printers and Binders Since Pioneer Days
Always Order Home-Produced SUGAR!
In baking of any kind—for cooking of all kinds—for canning, jelly making, jams—delicate frostings —making Sauces, candy—for any
a better sugar! And every bag you buy helps our farmers, our
SUGAR state, and yourself.
Fishers DUTCH BREAD
A Popular Favorite with the Whole Family
LOOK FOR It AT YOUR GROCERS
Home-Produced
A Product Of the Fisher Master Bakers
Index To Advertisers
Deseret Book Co Inside Back Cover
Fisher's Dutch Bread Inside Front Cover
Home-Produced Sugar Inside Front Cover
Larkin Mortuary Inside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College 359
Mountain Fuel Supply Co 359
Utah Power & Light Co 359
ZCMI Outside Back Cover
Ask YOUR Grocer for
Sweetening purpose you can't buy
"L. D. S. Training Pays!"
with a new GAS RANGE GAS REFRIGERATOR
Come in and see the beautiful new models. Ask about convenient purchase terms.
Calls for office workers are in SUPPLY COMPANY BUSINESS COLLEGE
Relief Society Song Book is now ready
The Price is 85¢ Per Copy—Post Paid
Address Orders to GENERAL OFFICE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Make Kitchen Tasks Easy and Pleasant
MOUNTAIN FUEL
Serving 23 Utah Communities
28 Bishops Building Salt Lake City
After Graduation—
OFFICE POSITION
about our course and employment service
Salt Lake City Utah
SEE YOUR DEALER OR UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
The Relief Society Magazine
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. XXVII JUNE, 1940 No. 6
Contents
Special Features
The Cover—Angels Landing, Zion National Park 359
Frontispiece—Zion and Liberty 360
The Stranger Within Our Gates Elder Joseph J. Cannon 361
The "Millennial Star" Elder A. William Lund 365
New General Board Appointments:
Pauline Taggart Pingree Professor Joseph F. Smith 368
Alice Bitner Castleton Helen Spencer Williams 369
How a Mother Can Prepare Her Son for the Aaronic Priesthood Vivian Redd McConkie 376
Training for Woman's Work (April Conf. Address) Elder John A. Widtsoe 379
The Burdenless Picnic Emily H. Bennett 383
Mormon Handicraft—One of Utah's Attractions Nellie O. Parker 390
"Let Your Light So Shine" Anna S. Barlow 398
Good Books Make Good Vacations 395
Annual Report Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 426
Fiction
Prayer Mary E Knowles 372
A Problem of Unity Irva Pratt Andrus 386
Cathedral of Peace (Chapter 8) Dorothy Clapp Robinson 406
General Features
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde 391
The Sunny Side of the Hill (Colored Wings) Lella Marler Hoggan 396
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 400
Editorials:
Pray Always That Ye Faint Not 401
Vacations That Re-Create 402
Notes to the Field:
Educational Courses Combined 403
Work-and-Business Outlines to be Published 403
General Board Lesson Outlines 403
University of Utah Summer Session 404
Relief Society Beautification Assignment 405
Church-wide Hymn Singing Project 405
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 411
Music Department—Spiritual Uplift of Music Luella N. Adams 418
Lessons
Lesson Preview—1940-41 419
Poetry
Taffeta and Lavender Caravene Gillies 371
My Wedding Ring Lael Woolsey Hill 375
My Task Irene R Davis 394
This Is a Pretty Little Place Eva Willes Wangsgaard 399
Song Lydia Hall 417
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Telephone Wasatch 980.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

THE COVER Angels Landing, Zion National Park THe conyons of southwestern Utah and northern Arizona are stupendous in size and gorgeous in coloring. Their brilliant hues. Glow almost unbelievably. The prevailing tint of Zion Canyon is vermilion, but above the reds the marvelous walls and temples rise in startling white. Joseph Black was the first known white man to penetrate this mighty canyon (1861). Subsequently, a few Mormon settlers raised crops ond grazed stock in the canyon, which they called "Little Zion." This scenic wonderland is now known as Zion National Park, created by act of Congress, approved November 19, 1919. Prior to its reservation as a park, it was a national monument, called by the Indian name of the river, Mukuntuweap. The monument proclamation was issued by President Taft on July 31, 1909. On March 18, 1918, the monument was enlarged by President Wilson and the name changed to "Zion." The name Zion is especially appropriate, for since early days the Mormon people, being deeply religious, have felt that the great mountains forming the canyon walls are in truth temples of God. ZION AND LIBERTY And now. We can behold the decrees of God concerning this land, that it is a land of promise: And whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God. Or they shall be swept off when the fullness of his wrath shall come upon them.."" For behold this is a land choice above all other lands;.'... And whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, ~: and from captivity and from all other nations under heaven if they will but serve the God of the land who is Jesus Christ—Ether 2:9, 16, 12. Sweetie: The Relief Society Magazine Vol. XXVII JUNE, 1940 No. 6 The Stranger Within Our Gates Elder Joseph J. Cannon President of Temple Square Mission IF we were putting up monuments on Temple Square to potent forces, it might be appropriate to erect one to curiosity. That is what brings the crowds, three or four thousand a day in the summer time. All the persecutions of the past, every wicked lie that has been told has increased the eagerness to learn. About us. Few words in any language have as much news value as the name "Mormon." As transportation facilities have increased and travel become more common, the Temple Square Mission has grown. The old and unpleasant curiosity has changed, especially among the intelligent. A number of things have brought this about, such as the romance of our history, the bold message of our missionaries, their clean and wholesome personalities, the fine records of those who have gone away to study, enter business or accept public office, the Tabernacle Choir broadcasts, the welfare plan. All these have given a new feeling for the word Mormon and an interesting connotation to our name. We look for the time when people will flock here to satisfy spiritual hunger, but for the present they come for the most part as sightseers. What happens after these tourists enter the high walls surrounding the Square is interesting and unique. Nothing quite like it goes on in the world. In the first place, there is absolutely no intimation, direct or oblique, that we desire their money. For their convenience we carry postcards and provide places with pen and ink where they may write. But the literature, with of course the exception of books, is free. When the Nauvoo Temple bell is rung and the group gathers to begin the tour, the guide makes an important and essential assumption. It is that those who follow are more interested in our beliefs than in the thickness or height of walls. We sometimes say that if you know the practices of a people, their history or background and the principles and doctrines they hold, you know the people, and without acquaintance in all three fields your knowledge is superficial. All this information may be and should be placed before our guests objectively. They come as tourists, not as worshipers or attendants at a church service. Preaching would offend, but placing the identical information before them as the dominating beliefs and background of a peo- TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY ple wins sympathy. Yet no guide ever goes out with a group except after an earnest prayer that the truth of his story and its eternal significance may be understood by his listeners. Like Nephi, we desire that the Holy Ghost shall carry faith and testimony from our heart to theirs. So at the monuments we tell them the heroic story of the hand-cart pioneers, the faith-inspiring sea-gull incident, the first vision and coming forth of the Book of Mormon. In the Assembly Hall we give a picture of Mormon life, recreation, vital statistics, education, priesthood, care of the needy, Church organization. In the baptistry we speak of the first principles of the Gospel and the restoration of authority. In the Tabernacle, naturally, we must be descriptive, but we can tell of the inspiration which guides the servants of the Lord in practical matters as well as in spiritual. At the Temple we not only point out its beauty, and there are few buildings in the world so impressive, but explain salvation for the dead, marriage for eternity and the future progress of the soul. Near the log house, the oldest in the valley, we can suggest the depth of conviction which led a people while living in houses like that to project a house to the Lord at a cost of nearly four million dollars of toil and sacrifice. And before the picture of the Angel Moroni and portraits of the seven presidents of the Church in the east room of the Museum Building we can speak of resurrected beings and the coming of the keys of authority from Heaven and descending to the present holder, President Heber J. Grant. There, too, we can mention that with the exception of the Prophet Joseph, who became a martyr at the age of thirty-eight, the leaders, in spite of intense activity and heavy burdens, have averaged eighty-three years, the present age of President Grant. THE STRANGER WITHIN OUR GATES Before parting with our guests we offer them Joseph Smith Tells His Own Story and one other pamphlet, also a memento card showing Temple Square in colors and the Articles of Faith on the back. They may buy the Book of Mormon or other Church works if they wish. 363 ten comments, sometimes with tears. Approaching Honolulu a_ few years ago, Dr. D. J. Edal Behram of Bombay radioed the mission president to meet his ship. On arrival he applied for baptism. President Bailey thought he might better wait until he knew more about the Gos- ~ LOG CABIN UNDER PERGOLA, TEMPLE SQUARE (While living in houses like this, the Latter-day Saint pioneers projected a house to the Lord at a cost of nearly four million dollars. ) wat is the effect of all this on our visitors? Four hundred thousand came to Temple Square last year and more than half followed guides through the buildings and grounds. Coming from all the states of the Union, from practically every city and town of the United States and Canada, from seventy-seven foreign countries, from every class of society, they naturally carried away varied impressions. We feel, however, that we can safely say it was overpoweringly friendly. Many received convictions that are deep and lasting. We hear that from the mission fields. They do not often stay long enough with us to do more than manifest it with words or writpel, but he stated that he had been to Temple Square, received our reading matter, prayed for a testimony and knew that Joseph Smith was a true prophet. All his life he had kept the Word of Wisdom. Now he desired to embrace the living truth and pleaded to be made a member of the Church. President Bailey baptized him. He received the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, paid tithing into the mission office and departed for far-off India. The impressions received by our visitors may be too subtle to define. President J. Reuben Clark sent some friends over some time ago. The gentleman was an international au- 364 thority on arbitration. As they were leaving the grounds, his wife said: "Mr. Cannon, I think we should say to you what we have been saying among ourselves. We sense a calmness here, a feeling of balance, that we have never experienced elsewhere, and we have traveled much." The other night one of the members of the company playing "Mr. Lincoln of Illinois" was standing hesitant near the gate looking back. I offered the service of a guide. He replied, "I have been around and must go now, though I would like to stay longer. It's a beautiful day, and the flowers here are exquisite, but it isn't that. There's something strange here. I've been in many places, but I have never felt such a spirit of peace as in this place. The Mormons who built that temple must have been a heroic people and a good people." ANOTHER phase of the Temple Square Mission is not so well known. It is the correspondence of persons who have visited or heard about us. Every day letters come with serious inquiries. Sometimes they are from foreign lands. We answer their questions, send them reading matter and invite them to use our services in the future. Some of these correspondents come into the Church as a result of this contact. One had never seen an elder until after applying for baptism. A startling phase of these letters is the number of students in grade schools, high schools and colleges who write for reading matter to help them work up the subject of the Mormons, which they have chosen as their term paper or class theme. We send them pamphlets, lend RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 them books and look up special matters for them. Frequently the pamphlets find their place in the school library. Probably no contact could be more desirable than for a young person to be studying and writing sympathetically of this people. 'They will carry that interest into their homes and throughout life. Frrequently the correspondence is from writers who are preparing articles, or from speakers who are lecturing before clubs or over the radio. Some time ago the American Museum of Natural History broadcast nationally the story of the Sea-gulls, and about a year ago a German magazine published a picture of the Sea-gull Monument and the dramatic story.: It is a lovely spot, this Temple Square, the nearest to Heaven of any place on earth—at least we who work here think so. When the flowers are in bloom, it is truly an island of beauty. Every day of the year the great melodious organ speaks. More people have heard it than any instrument ever constructed by man. The annual and semi-annual Conferences rank with the religious gatherings of all time. The visitors who last year took with them more than 6000 copies of the Book of Mormon and pethaps half a million pieces of literature, leaving more than twenty thousand requests for missionaries to call at their homes, have carried the story of its beauty, peace, and friendliness and its essential message to all parts of the earth. Few years will pass, we believe, until pilgrims from afar will come in multitudes, not from curiosity, not as tourists, but as seekers after the word of the Lord, to learn of His ways and to walk in His paths. The "Millennial Star'' (First issue, May 27, 1840) Elder A. William Lund Assistant Church Historian T a council meeting of seven members of the Quorum of the Twelve, held in Preston, England, on April 16, 1840, it was decided to publish a monthly periodical. After some deliberation, these brethren decided that this publication should be called The Latterday Saints Millennial Star and be edited by Elder Parley P. Pratt. The size of the paper, its plan and price were left to the editor. Brother Pratt must have set to work at once to arrange matters for publication and to gather material for its first issue, as the Star was issued on May 27, 1840. It was in pamphlet form, consisted of 24 pages, and was priced at sixpence (12 cents) per copy. The first issue of the Star had a paper cover upon which appeared the hymn commencing "The Morning Breaks," which was written by Parley P. Pratt especially for this issue. 'Thousands of people have rejoiced both in singing and in hearing this hymn sung. Also on the last page of the first issue of the Star is that stirring hymn written by Brother Pratt and entitled "Second Advent." We have learned to love and sing this hymn under the title, "Come, O! Thou King of Kings." The Star is the first periodical published by the Church in a foreign land. Itis also the oldest continuous periodical published by the Church, as it is still being issued. The prospectus of the Star so splendidly explains the reason for its publication that it is here reproduced in full: The long night of darkness is now far spent—the truth revived in its primitive simplicity and purity, like the day-star of the horizon, lights up the dawn of that effulgent morn when the knowledge of God will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. It has pleased the Almighty to send forth an HOLY ANGEL, to restore the fulness of the gospel with all its attendant blessings, to bring together his wandering sheep into 'one fold, to restore to them "the faith which was once delivered to the saints," and to send his servants in these last days, with a special message to all the nations of the earth, in order to prepare all who will hearken for the Second Advent of Messiah, which is now near at hand. By this means, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (being first organized in 1830) has spread throughout many parts of America and Europe; and has caused many tens of thousands to tejoice above measure, while they are enabled to walk in the light of truth. And feeling very desirous that others should be made partakers of the same blessings, by being made acquainted with the same truths, they have thought proper to order the publication of a Periodical devoted entirely to the great work of the spread of truth, sincerely praying that man may be led to carefully examine the subject, and to discern between truth and error, and act accordingly. THE MILLENNIAL STAR will stand aloof from the common political and commercial news of the day. Its columns will be devoted to the spread of the fulness of the gospel—the restoration of the ancient principles of Christianity—the gathering of Israel—the rolling forth of the kingdom of God among the nations—the signs of the times—the fulfilment of prophecy— recording the judgments of God as they befall the nations, whether signs in the heavens or in the earth "blood, fire, or vapour of smoke"—in short, whatever is shown forth indicative of the coming of the "Son of Man," and the ushering in of his universal reign on the earth. It will also 366 contain letters from our numerous elders who are abroad, preaching the word both in America and Europe, containing news of their success in ministering the blessings of the glorious gospel. As an Ancient Record has lately been discovered in America, unfolding the history of that continent and its inhabitants, as far back as its first peopling after the flood, and containing much historical, prophetical, and doctrinal knowledge, which is of the utmost importance to the present age, we shall give such extracts from time to time as will be most interesting to the lovers of truth, From this source we shall be able to pour a flood of light upon the world on subjects before concealed—upon the history of a nation whose remnants have long since dwindled to insignificance in midnight darkness, and whose former greatness was lost in oblivion, or only known by the remains of cities, palaces, temples, aqueducts, monuments, towers, fortifications, unintelligible inscriptions, sepulchres, and bones. The slumber of ages has now been broken, The dark curtain of the past has been tolled up. 'The veil of obscurity has been removed, as it regards the world called new. —This discovery will yet be hailed among all nations, as among the most glorious events of latter times, and as one of the ptincipal means of overwhelming the earth with knowledge. This paper also will contain extracts from some remarkable visions and revelations which have been given to the Saints in this age, unfolding the mysteries of the kingdom of God from days of old and for ages to come; for truly some of the wonders of eternity have been opened to our view, and things to come have been shewn to us, even the things of many generations. The first issue of the Star also contains a clear exposition of the meaning of the Millennium and concludes with this interesting statement: The curse will be taken from off the earth, and it will cease to bring forth thorns and thistles, and become fertile as it were a paradise, while sickness, premature death, and all their attendant train of pains and sorrows will scarce be known upon its face; thus peace, and joy, and truth, and love, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 and knowledge, and plenty, and glory, will cover the face of the earth as the waters do the sea. The tabernacle of God, and his sanctuary will be with man, in the midst of the holy cities; and joy and gladness will fill the measure of their cup. SUCH THEN, IS THE GREAT MILLENNIUM OF WHICH OUR LITTLE "STAR" WOULD FAIN ANNOUNCE THE DAWN. THE Star was first issued in the city of Manchester, England, and continued being published there until the April issue of 1842, when it was printed and published at 36 Chapel Street, Liverpool. The Star was issued at Liverpool from 1842 until 1933, when it was published in London, England, and where it is now published. In the year 1861 the Star purchased its own press and type, etc., and was published thereon until the move to London. Before the year 1861 and since 1933 the Star has been published by numerous printing firms in England. The Star was on the verge of being discontinued on more than one occasion, but the loyalty of the branches of the Church kept it alive. The following, copied from the Star, tells very interestingly of one of these occasions: The present number closes the second volume of the "Millennial Star," and with it we acknowledge our gratitude to God and to the saints for having been enabled thus far to conduct the work. We have by the assistance of the spirit of the Lord used our utmost exertions to make it useful to his people, that they may be like him at his coming. We did announce it as our intention that thepresent number would conclude the work, but from the proceedings of the Glasgow conference and the earnest solicitations of other churches, we have been induced to continue its publication on the same terms as the last volume, save that it may contain more matter. In order to effect the continuance of the work, we have associated Elder Ward, of Bum- THE "MILLENNIAL STAR" ley, as joint editor and correspondent with our various agents, to whom all communications may be addressed for the purchase of any works published by us, at the "Star" office, 36 Chapel-street, Liverpool. We trust that our exertions in future will keep pace with the increasing light and growing energy of the work of God, until the gleamings of our humble "Star" be lost in the blaze of Millennial glory, and to enable 367 our experience as Editors; yet we have been enabled by the help of God, and by the aid of those few, to send the following volume to the world, as a flaming arrow of truth through the startling nations. It has penetrated the thick darkness, and the mists. Of error have fled before it. But we aim not only to benefit the present age, but to hand down to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness DURHAM HOUSE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (For many years the home of the Star) us to be instrumental in this great purpose, we sincerely desire an interest in the prayers of all saints. Of the many sterling editors of the Star, four have been presidents of the Church. President Heber J. Grant is the fourth president who was editor of the Star. Seven became members of the First Presidency, and seventy-six apostles have also been editors of this paper. The following, almost prophetic, paragraph is copied from the preface of the first volume of the Star: "TRUTHS would you teach, to save a sinking land, All fear,—few aid you, and few understand." —Pope. The above is strictly true in regard to is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth, amid the wreck of error, and the crush of thrones, that ages to come may read with astonishment and admiration the history and progress of that mighty revolution which has now commenced, and which will then have been consummated, to the joy and satisfaction of the whole earth. Through the past century of the existence of the Star it has faithfully, fearlessly and truthfully chronicled events pertaining to the Church and the world. It has defended the Truth, praised where praise was due, informed the misinformed and surely has, in its 101 volumes, left "to posterity a journal, which shall stand when wickedness is overthrown, and shine forth as a monument of truth" for ages to come. New General Board Appointments Pauline Jaggart Pingree Professor Joseph F. Smith AULINE TAGGART PINGREE is a daughter and granddaughter of pioneers. Her grandparents, converts to the Church in 1836, came to Utah in 1848. In 1900, when Pauline was fourteen years old, her father, George PAULINE T. PINGREE H. Taggart, together with eleven other brethren, was called by President Lorenzo Snow to settle the Big Horn Basin in Wyoming. Pauline's mother, Jessie McKinnen Taggart, was the mother of sixteen living children, the youngest being four years old. Brother and Sister Taggart had already done a good deal of pioneering in Morgan, Utah, where Pauline's grandparents had settled and where Pauline was born. Moving to what amounted to virgin territory was no little trial, but the call had come and the Taggart family moved to Big Horn. They spent a large part of the first year in tents. With seven younger brothers and sisters—Pauline was the ninth of sixteen children—there was plenty of hard work for Pauline. Personal experience taught her what pioneering meant. During a visit to Utah in 1903, she met a young missionary just back from Germany. A year later, Frank Pingree went to Big Hom, claimed Pauline for his bride, and brought her back to Coalville, where he was cashier of the bank.- For thirteen years they lived in Coalville, Brother Pingree being at various times mayor, bishop and stake superintendent of the Sunday School board. Pauline, in addition to giving her husband three sons and two daughters, gave excellent Church service, first as president of the ward Y. W. M. I. A. And second as counselor in the Y. W. M. I. A. Stake presidency. She was also a faithful member of the choir. The World War called for talents and abilities such as those Pauline possessed so abundantly. She went throughout Summit county singing in Red Cross benefit concerts, assisting with and giving instruction in the Government conservation program, for which she later received NEW GENERAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS a silver medal as Government recognition for her stoic service. In 1919, the family moved to Salt Lake City. They lived in the Eleventh Ward but a short time when Pauline was called to serve as first counselor to Emma S. Teudt, president of the Y. W. M. I. A. Later, she was called to the Ensign Stake Y. W. M. I. A. Board. The prolonged illness of her son, Paul, who died in 1925, when fifteen years of age, compelled her to resign. In the same year, the new University Ward was organized, and Frank Pingree was made bishop. When Bishop Pingree died, in 1933, Pauline had served as president of the Y. W. M. I. A. For four years. After his death she was called to be president of the University Ward Relief Society. After organizing the ward Society, in May, 1935, she went to Washington, D. C., to attend school. On her return, she was again called into the 369 presidency as counselor to Luella N. Adams, serving for three years. Her formal schooling was meager, but she has always had an avidity for learning. In 1934, she attended summer school in Madison, Wisconsin. At the time she was called to the General Board she was endearing herself to the women who came together under her instruction at the Bishop's Regional Storehouse, in addition to her ward work. Sister Pingree's talents and training particularly fit her for Relief Society service. Her pioneer experience, her long, varied. Activity in - Church auxiliary and civic organizations, her thirst for knowledge, her extensive association with groups banded together for intellectual improvement, such as the Friendship Circle and the Classic Club, have been wonderful preparation for the service to which she has been called. —_4—___ Alice Bitner Castleton Helen Spencer Williams Christ of Latter-day Saints prepares well those who are called into important roles of leadership. Alice Bitner Castleton, new appointee to the General Board of Relief Society, was born of goodly parents. Her father, Brenamen Barr Bitner, drove his widowed mother across the plains when but a lad of twelve years, arriving in Salt Lake Valley in 1849. Her mother, Martina Halsett, when seventeen years of age, left family and friends in Oslo, Norway, and came alone to Zion for the sake of the religion which she had Tous the Church of Jesus embraced. Here in the valley of the mountains these two met, married and reared a splendid family, ten daughters and two sons, all of whom have achieved success in various lines of endeavor. The home of Brenamen Bitner and his wife was one of spirituality, refinement and culture. A love for the Gospel was instilled into the consciousness of the children, and the principles of the Gospel were their guide for living. Alice was the fifth child in the family. Early in life she learned to appreciate good literature, to love 370 music and art, and to keep an avid interest in current affairs. But growing into womanhood in a home where the Gospel was paramount, it permeated all she did. What a wholesome, interesting girlhood and young womanhood was hers—school, parties, beaux driving out on Sunday afternoons and evenings to the BitALICE B. CASTLETON ner farm, vying with each other for a tying spot for their horses and buggies along the tree-lined drive to the Bitner home. Then came her marriage to Wallace C. Castleton and the establishment of their home together. Many are the splendid attributes of character of Alice Bitner Castleton, but first and foremost among these has been her great ability as a homemaker; she has been an ideal wife and mother. The Castleton home has been one where love, harmony and intelligence has held RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 sway. The five children born to the Castletons have been given every advantage possible, and these young men and women have now established homes of their own and are a credit to the mother and father. Frequently friends of the family, dropping in unexpectedly, would find the entire family gathered about the piano, one daughter or son playing the piano, another the violin, and all singing together the songs they loved. Perhaps the visitor would find the family giving rapt attention to a painting by one of the daughters, or, on a winter night, gathered about the open fire listening to mother or father read. Understanding and a real love of friends have made the Castleton home a haven of hospitality for all who know them, both young and old. During the long, serious illness of Sister Castleton's beloved husband and the heartbreaking experience of his untimely death, she kept her sorrows and sadness within her own heart and shared only her smiles with others. Only those intimately associated with her realized her sorTOws. During Alice Bitner Castleton's entire life she has rendered devoted service to the Church. Her time and energy she has given wholeheartedly, enthusiastically. Her love for the Gospel and her devout adherence to its principles have been as a beacon to those with whom she has come in contact. Her many and varied activities have been profoundly enriched by her lovable, interesting personality, and those who have come under her leadership have felt the influence of her integrity and sincerity of nature. She has served her Church in NEW GENERAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS many positions of leadership. She has been a counselor in the Twentyfirst Ward Primary Association and also a board member in the Ensign Stake Primary Association. She has taught Relief Society literature lessons, being ably qualified for this work through her extensive reading and active membership in the Classic and Authors clubs—both organizations widely known for their superior literary programs. For four years she served as Relief Society president in the Twenty-first Ward, after which she was appointed first counselor to Luacine S. Clark in the Ensign Stake Relief Society presidency. Succeeding Sister Clark, she served as stake president for a period of three and one-half years. At a later date, she was again called to serve in the Ensign Stake Relief Society as counselor to Janet M. Thompson and later as counselor to Radie O. Hyde. At the time of her appointment to the General Board of Relief Society, 371 she was serving as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. Rarely is one called to the General Board who is better qualified to assume the responsibilities of this important woman's work. Her personality radiates love and understanding, her mind challenges and seeks the best. She has a warmth of emotion that wins all who come into her presence and a spirituality that inspires hope and faith. During all of these years of constant Church service, she has kept her social contacts, which have enriched her life and given her unusual balance. Her friends are myriad. Truly, this high honor which has come to a worthy woman is well deserved, for throughout the days of her girlhood, wifehood and motherhood she has been preparing herself. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints prepares well those who are called into the roles of leadership. ——_-—__ TAFFETA and LAVENDER Rustle of taffeta on the stair, Scent of lavender in the air. Lovingly hovering over my bed, My mother bends her lovely head. Hair, soft and dusky, frames her face; She holds me close in her embrace. She sings a lullaby so dear; It comes to my memory, soft and clear. When footsteps are weary and days are long, In the still of evening I hear her song. Soft as the hush of the faint twilight, It whispers and fades away in the night. It fades away, elusive and still, But it calls me home as it always will, To the rustle of taffeta on the stair, And scent of lavender in the air. - —Caravene Gillies. Prayer Mary Ek Knowles HEN the alarm went off, W Beth turned over sleepily, nestled further down into the warm covers and waited to hear Larry get out of bed and grumble good-naturedly about "having to get up in the middle of the night." Then she remembered with a start that Larry was dead, and she was mother and father for her little family, and the alarm clock was ringing for her. She reached over and turned it off quickly so as not to awaken Robin and Roberta, slipped into her blue flannel robe and went quietly into the kitchen. Despite the saucy, red and white curtains, the bright linoleum, the kitchen looked gray and deserted in the early morning light. As Beth stood with her hand on the light switch, the thought came to her that she missed Larry most of all in the morning. His presence had started the day off right. She missed him talking to her while he dressed— coming to the kitchen door, face white with lather, razor in hand, to: tell her what Smith had said the day before. Most of all, she missed his smile across the breakfast table. She shook her head as if to dispel the dark mood, flicked on the light and busied herself about the kitchen. Today was Sunday, and she had promised herself she was going to Sunday School. She had need of spiritual food, a communion with God. There was much to be done before Betty Lou, the neighbor girl, came to tend the twins. She checked off in her mind the things she must do: start the roast, peel the vegetables, mix custards, prepare breakfast, bathe and dress the twins. Her spirits lifted as she hurried about. What a God-given blessing was work to occupy one's hands— and one's mind. As she peeled the carrots, she considered the job that had been offered her by McDonald Brokerage and Real Estate. It was low pay, of course, to start with. But they were an established firm. If her work proved satisfactory, she might go far. She was sure she would enjoy working there. The office was a pleasant one overlooking the town square; the job of secretary to Mr. Campbell a likable one. She had been very fortunate to get such a chance so soon after completing the business training course. It was not the problem of work that was bothering her. She frown-- ed and pushed a lock of dark hair back from her forehead with a slim hand. The problem was what to do about the children. Of course, what she needed was an efficient housekeeper — someone middle-aged, steady, someone who would love the three-year-old twins and have patience with their mischievous ways. What she wanted was the impossible. She reviewed the discouraging line of applicants she had interviewed during the past week: young girls with their minds on scarlet nail-polish, the latest fad in hairdressing, and the opposite sex; mature women with demands—"... Understand, I'd want two afternoons off a week PRAYER.. No less than ten dollars a week and room and board... I'll teach them to mind... You'd have to get an electric range, I could never use a coal range..." None of them were anywhere near suitable, and tomorrow she must go to work, and oh!——Of a sudden, everything was too much for her: Larry's sudden death from pneumonia, the responsibility, the worry —life. She started to cry, weakly at first, then almost hysterically. She dried her hands on a dish towel, went quickly into the bedroom and stood at the foot of the twins' bed. Poor babies! What was to become of them? She clasped her hands, pressed them tightly against her lips and prayed. "Dear God—" That was all. Just so are fervent prayers offered —in crowded streets, in the stillness of the night; a quick glance upward, a sharp intake of breath, an imploring sigh. And He hears, reads the heart, and knows the words the lips cannot speak. ITH quick steps, Beth walked out into the freshly-washed beauty that was a May morning. Rows of tulips stood at attention beneath her dining room window. She bent and touched a red tulip, felt the dew cool on her finger-tips, drank deeply of the fragrance of lilacs and hyacinths. Could one witness the miracle of spring each year and still doubt that there was a God— everlasting life! She looked up at the sound of a tapping on the window to find Robin and Roberta, noses flattened against the window, waving at her. Precious babies! She waved back, a trim little figure in her dark, tail- 373 ored suit, then continued on her way down the wide, tree-bordered sidewalk of Locust Street. Soon the trees would be green, branches bending. Perhaps, if all went well, she could buy the little house on Locust Street as she and Larry had planned. And all would go well! She had a job to go to. Perhaps Mrs. Gardener next door would tend the twins just for tomorrow, and then surely she would find someone. Her mood was a happy one. Almost frantically she hugged it to her heart enjoying it to the full. But as she neared the church her step became slower, heavier, the beautiful feeling slipped away and her heart was again heavy. She was a stranger here! She and Larry had moved to Adamsville only six months before. There had not been time ta get acquainted. She looked about her for Bishop Swanson. He had been very kind when Larry died, had preached a consoling sermon at the quiet funeral service. But she was so alone! People passed her on the steps in couples and groups, and no one said, "Good morning." The smile on Beth's face became rigid, her throat tightened. She was about to turn and go home when she beheld a plump, gray-haired woman coming up the steps. She was expensively and tastefully dressed in a tailored, blue suit, a chic, white hat and accessories—and she was a stranger, too. Beth could see it in the almost hungry way she looked about, in the fixed smile on her pleasant face. Their eyes met, and the fixed smile became deep, warm. Miraculously, in that moment, by the common bond of loneliness, they were friends. 374 "Lovely morning, isn't it?" Beth smiled and held out her hand. "I'm Beth Tanner." The older woman took Beth's slim hand in her two motherly ones. "I'm Mrs. McBride," she said, "Mamie McBride." The ridiculous thought came to Beth that somehow the stylish clothes didn't suit Mamie McBride; she should be wearing a comfortable house dress — a lavender print one and a big white over-apron. The strains of an organ floated out to them. "The services are starting," Mrs. McBride said. "Let us go in together." They secured a seat by the open window, and the fragrance of hyacinths came through. They held the song book together, stood side by side, their shoulders touching. Beth felt that she had known Mamie McBride all her life. FTER the services, they walked from the church together, and Beth had a sudden reluctance to bid her new friend good-by. "Are you going my way?" she asked. "I live on Locust Street." "No," Mrs. McBride shook her head, a sad little smile on her face, "T live on Circle Way in the fashionable Commodore Apartments." She turned and sighed, and there was something in that sigh that brought quick tears to Beth's blue eyes. Why, she must be terribly unhappy. "Come home with me," Beth invited impulsively, forgetting her own problem. "Come to dinner, spend the day with me, please do—unless someone is waiting for you at home." Mamie McBride gave a sudden RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 little laugh that was like a bright patch of sunshine on a clean linoleum floor. "No one is waiting but the doorman, and I don't think he'll miss me. I'm afraid he hasn't exactly approved of me since that first day when I shook hands with him and tried to get acquainted. One doesn't do that at the Commodore. Why, I don't even know the woman across the hall from me. Oh, I'd love to come, unless—" she stopped, and her brown eyes searched Beth's face, "I'd be intruding. I'd hate to do that. Your husband—" Beth looked quickly away. "There are just the two babies and I." She hooked her arm through the older. Woman's arm and smiled at her. "Please come." "Tell me about your children," Mrs. McBride begged as they walked along. "How many have you?" "Two," Beth answered, "Twins— Robin and Roberta." Suddenly her problem came back to worry her again—the new job and no housekeeper. "Enjoy your babies, my dear, while you have them," Mamie McBride said in a fervent tone. "Too often mothers miss the happiness of today looking forward to the tomorrow. They can scarcely wait until the baby can walk and talk, and then dress himself, and then go to school. Live each day to the last precious second. "Why, look at me for instance. When the family was small, I looked forward eagerly to the time when they would all be grown, when I could sleep late in the mornings, come and go as I pleased, spend a whole afternoon in a beauty parlor ora show house, cook birdlike meals, try the newest diet fads. PRAYER "And now the time has arrived. My family is grown, married, moved away, and I'm—I'm terribly bored!" For a moment she was silent, thinking. "TI live in a modern apartment," she went on rapidly. "My son settled me there before he and Ruth went to South America, so I could take life easy. Oh, he meant well. He's always been so good to me, as have all my children. Well, there I am. I clean my apartment from living room to kitchenette, then I sit on the couch and fold my hands and then clean it all over again for want of something better to do." There: was a note of hysteria in her voice. "Why, look at me!" She extended plump, efficient hands expressively. 'Tm no lady of leisure to sit about in a silk dress. These hands were meant to mix bread, hold a rolling pin, flute the edges of a pie, wash a tubful of clothes!" Her brown eyes flooded with tears. "I want to be needed. If I could just find someone with a few 375 tiny children who needed a housekeeper." Beth's heart skipped a beat. "Say that again!" she said. "Why only this morning... " And suddenly she was opening her heart to the older woman, telling her about Larty's death and the new job and about the inexperienced girls and the demanding women. "Oh, if you would only take the job," Beth found herself begging. "Of course, I couldn't pay much at first, but as my wages increased..." The woman seemed scarcely to hear her. "How old did you say your children are?" "Two years. They're really very good babies. I..." "That's such a sweet age. Just the age when they like warm cookies and gingerbread men. I've dozens of stories just begging to be told to a wide-eyed child. My dear, if you'd let me come!" "Let you!" Beth fought to keep back the happy tears. Her prayer had been answered. ——- MY WEDDING RING Lael Woolsey Hill My wedding ring is a golden band On the third finger of my left hand. It is as endless, as bright, and fair As the love of the lover who set it there. It is a symbol, 'twixt him and me, Of our happiness eternally. Three small diamonds in my ring Are three dream-children our love shall bring. How A Mother Can Prepare Her Son for the Aaronic Priesthood By Vivian Redd McConkie ATTER-DAY SAINT mothers L who have faith in God and who love the Gospel and are imbued with wisdom to evaluate and understand its principles are anxious that their children shall be the recipients of its blessings. To guard against disappointments, mothers of this type take early interest in guiding and shaping their children's ideals, beliefs, standards, and habits, that they may have strength and power to withstand evil forces. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Prov., 22:6). These are words of wisdom. No matter what the training is, whether it is in the right or the wrong direction, "he will not depart from it." Children can be habituated and accustomed to the right way when sufficient time and thought are given them by their parents during their formative years. A mother can be ever so conscientious in the training of her children, and exert great energy, but if she herself has not the right "mind-set", the children very likely will be on the bias—inclined to swerve when temptations confront them. Before we can harmonize our conduct with the philosophy of the Gospel, and be qualified to teach it to our children both by precept and example, we must have clear-cut, well-defined, and correct ideas and conceptions of just what we do believe as Latter-day Saints, and a respectful attitude for all that the Lord requires of us. Our understanding varies according to our faith in the Lord and our conformity to His revealed word; hence, there are many varieties of Latter-day Saint homes. People live according to their understanding and desires. We live no better than we know how to live. There is a positive relationship between doing and knowing. If one will do the will of the Father, he shall know of the doctrine, for he is in a position to have his understanding added upon. "I understand more than the ancients because I keep thy precepts" (Ps., 119:100). When we, as mothers, keep the commandments of the Lord, our faith increases and our understanding becomes clear and definite; for, "Through thy precepts I get understanding" (Ps. 119:114). Understanding of eternal truth is clarified and takes form through faith, by studying the Gospel and becoming familiar with what we believe as members of the Church, through meditation (thinking things through), and by having the courage to live up to our precepts. Children born into, homes where parents have faith in the Lord and an understanding of God, and who have appreciation for the Gospel as well as strength to live its principles, have a much better opportunity to succeed in the fight against sin. If these characteristics predominate, and if the Gospel is the beacon light, the children are more nearly assured joy in this life and eternal life in the world to come. '! Is common in Church families for children under twelve years of age to make progress in the various organizations of the Church, but as they approach puberty and adolescence, which in the boy's life is from twelve to nineteen years, the period corresponding to the Aaronic Priesthood age, the picture frequently changes. At this period a great influx of energy appears in both the physical and mental phenomena. A rapid growth and readjustment of various bodily functions take place. There are new mental interests, new ambitions, new zests to meet life, and a new birth, especially in relation to society. Emotional instability, a tendency toward emancipation, a sudden turning to the ego, and an advance of one's own opinions, feelings, and volitions, and often a letting go or giving up to disintegrating tendencies characterize this period. If during the pre-adolescent period children are habituated to the fundamental virtues, including faith in God, honesty, obedience, respect for parents and authority, and are accustomed to Church activities and a respectful attitude for the Sabbath Day, as a rule they will pass adolescence admirably. Change in any direction is slow. Children do not become great champions of virtue nor grievous sinners over night. Parents not awake to the best interests of their children until they are partially grown find them too set in their ways to be readily changed to the more narrow paths. Every day of experience more fully conditions the child in some mannet of living. If the early training would be more nearly as it should be, there would be fewer frustrated parents when boys approach and _ pass through the Aaronic Priesthood ages. (Read Gospel Doctrine, pp. 359-380; Doc. And Coy., Sec. 68.) Faith in God is the fundamental, restraining force in one's life. "For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him" (Heb., 11:6). Life is a conflict between the two great forces of good and evil, and we are continually making our choices, classifying ourselves, whether or not we are conscious of it. "No man can serve two masters.... Ye cannot serve God and mammon" (Matt., 6:24). If the fundamentals of the Gospel were affirmatively accepted and lived by parents, and if they were taught to children, much of the confusion, disregard, and disrespect of Gospel ideals begun in adolescence would be averted, and a_ gradual growth and development in the right way would result. If normal children reach their teens untaught, undisciplined, undirected, as a rule their way will be fraught with difficulties. This is the period for the "set of the sail." Early and proper training cannot be over stressed. Ofttimes parents get plunged into difficulties without being cognizant of the reasons. Perhaps they have been inconsistent and have selected which commandments of the Lord they would keep and which they would offend, forgetting that their children probably will follow their example, except that the children may elect to disregard not only those which the parents disregard but other important commandments as well, which they themselves may elect. Children are prone to pattern after parents. If a mother's life is at variance with her teachHOW A MOTHER CAN PREPARE HER SON FOR THE AARONIC PRIESTHOOD $77 378 ings, it is unfortunate for the child, for her example will probably impress the child more than her teachings. If she makes the mistake of liberalizing the law by attempting to harmonize it with her own conduct and concepts, instead of harmonizing and adjusting her life to the law, she will lessen parental influence with her children. HERE is frequent divergence of opinion as to what is the right thing to believe or the proper thing to do relative to the doctrines of the Church. Individual differences in people's understanding, faith, desires, the degree of guidance by the Holy Ghost are plainly evidenced. Variance of views regarding Church standards may develop to an unwholesome proportion. For instance, mere mention of Sabbath observance may develop as many opinions as you have persons present, which indicates a proneness to put a personal and private interpretation on subjects that are well defined and clearly revealed in Holy Writ. A oneness is not reached by surrender of thought, or opinion, or liberty, but by study and obedience. Where there is righteousness there is oneness. You often hear this remark: "Let your conscience be your guide." If the conscience is not in harmony with what the Lord has said on any subject, how can one follow his conscience and gain salvation? Many consciences are attuned to, and accustomed to doing improper and disrespectful things on the Lord's Day, in direct breach of divine injunction. There is such a thing as a "Church conscience." If individual conscience does not measure up to what the Church requires, then individual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 concepts should be harmonized with those of the Church. Our conduct is well defined if we whole-heartedly accept the Gospel as divinely revealed and as an inspired code to live by. There are many reasons why children do or do not develop as they should to measure up to Latter-day Saint standards. I have tried to indicate a few which seem pertinent. If mothers realized that childhood is an impressionable age, a period of tender faith and trusting hearts, that it is a time when definite things must be acquired by the child in preparation for his development, and that if these essentials are neglected the boy will be handicapped at the very outset of his receiving the Aaronic Priesthood, they would be more anxious to charge their memories with their duties to teach faith in the Lord. If mothers are indifferent to ordinations of the Priesthood, lack understanding of them, and have slight appreciation for them, the boy's progress in the Priesthood is blighted at the outset. He will scarcely grasp the significance of the Priesthood without home teaching. It will be more difficult to fully appreciate the sacredness of the Priesthood without parental instruction. In his youth. If he does not grasp the significance of it, or appreciate the sacredness of the authority, he will make no special effort to magnify it. There is bright hope for every mother, and there is great expectation for every son who is taught and trained in the principles and in the ordinances of the Gospel. The Lord has shown the way and asks only that we follow in the path of our inspired Priesthood. Training for Woman's Work Elder John A. Widtsoe (Conference Address, April 4, 1940) T is an honor to be allowed the privilege of standing before this significant gathering of women— women devoted to the noblest cause on earth. I have always held women in high respect. From my life with my widowed mother, all through the years, I have recognized the patience, devotion, courage, and wisdom of womanhood as directing forces in the world. Woman has played a great part in the history of the world. I am mindful of the fact that woman was last at the cross, when the Savior gave His life for us, and she was the first to see Him after His resurrection. Woman has her distinct and everlasting place in the plan of salvation for humanity. As individuals, we may be called to special commissions, but as a group, men have their special work in the world, and women have their special work. No matter how things change, how ideas may be multiplied, or how new days offer new opportunities, woman's work, in the end, remains just the same. She is the maker of the world's homes; she is the mother of mankind; and the maker and shaper of men. To her is committed the great task of preserving the faith of mankind quite as much as to man himself. One of the great leaders of this Church is reported as saying that woman's work was so important that if he had to choose between educating his sons and daughters, he would educate his daughters, because they would be the makers of the coming generation of men. The Relief Society, as a great organization, reflects every individual woman, but also womanhood in general. I like the name "Relief" Society, because the word implies so many functions. The message of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the infant organization one hundred years ago was one of great breadth. He said among other things that the Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls. Can there be any requirement made of us greater than that, or-more demanding? To me, the Relief Society stands for relief of poverty and pain, of ignorance and sin. Women as the mothers of men and the makers of the home shape the ideals which become the foundation of youth. This is trite but true; the problems of youth are close to the mother. One of woman's most important jobs is to train the girls of this age so that they in turn may become the right kind of mothers and homemakers. That is a matter for which they should be trained, and for which they often receive inadequate training. Times have changed. The world has received new gifts of knowledge and power over the forces of nature which have almost completely changed our civilization. The earth has been enriched. The radio, printing press, phonograph and the other marvels of the day are at our command. One thing is certain. The new day has brought new requirements and obligations with respect to the training of women. One of the most significant changes in recent days is the new increase in 380 leisure time. 'Today, because of labor-saving devices, we have a great amount of leisure, much more than ever had before. I am inclined to believe that in the not very far-distant future, the use of that leisure will be a main problem before humanity. It is time now for us to begin to think about how to fill the leisure time of our boys and girls. That is a problem today in many of our homes. The new freedom of thinking which has come has often set up ideals which are false and wil! Lead to the destruction of the best in life. I picked up a college humor paper just the other day. As I looked through it, I felt the blood rise to my cheeks in shame. It was nothing more than an attempt to bring out, coarsely, the sex element. The editors went just as far as they dared without being refused the use of the mails. In pictures, jokes, short stories, sex was uppermost. Throughout our land many false ideals are presented to youth. The eyes of youth are being turned in the wrong direction.. I feel to say to you, my sisters, that in many respects in this day of plenty, in this day of new gifts, our children are starved for correct life ideals. It is a pitiful thing to be starving in the midst of plenty. What can we do in solving the problems that stand before you as mothers of men, responsible for the making of future housewives and homemakers? How can we make these women of the coming generation worthy of their great calling? There are two ways by which we may train young people. One is the indirect way, by our surroundings, our environment, the friendships we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 make, and things of that kind. To walk by the side of a good man, to see a beautiful picture, to hear good music, to converse about clean and noble subjects influence us for good. We are all imitators. The other method is direct training, as when a woman sits down by her daughter and tells her what should be done. Neither method is sufficient alone; both must be used for full education. All are bom with certain gifts. We inherit much. But, that which we inherit may be of little value if we do not give opportunity for development. We must not rely too much on heredity. Environment is tremendously important. A story in point was recently published in the journal Science, the organ of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. For some years past, reports have come that in South Africa was a young man who was raised with baboons— monkeys. No one quite knew whether it was true or not, until men of science recently undertook to discover whether there was any truth in the report. The boy was found. Two men, Government employees, traveling through South Africa saw a group of baboons playing in a clump of trees. Out of mischief, the men shot at the baboons. Hearing the report, the animals scampered away. The men observed that one of the baboons was not running quite as fast as the others. 'The men soon overtook the laggard and discovered that he was a white boy about 12 or 13 years of age. They immediately took him back to civilization and began to train him. The boy had the same heredity as other white boys, but he had been brought up with baboons. He tried to walk TRAINING FOR WOMAN'S WORK on all fours, he made noises like baboons, wanted baboon food, was unclean, and could not be kept in the house. It took years to change him from a baboon to a man. He is now a grown man, able to tell of his life with the baboons. But, every once in a while, as a mature man, that which he had learned from the associations of his youth overcome him, and he is once again half a baboon. N pleading this afternoon for the training of the womanhood of the Church for their life's work, I plead that we shall try to provide such an environment as will lead our young women toward noble, useful,. And efficient womanhood, which will help train them for the great mission and obligation which the Lord has placed upon woman. In every community and home there should be the right kind of environment, the right kind of ideals. Good words should be spoken, not evil ones; beauty should be sought, not ugliness; purity, not coarseness should be upheld; the things that build character should be before us—all to be done by gentle means. Much money is not needed to create a wholesome environment. Forty years ago a great Woman's Exhibition was held in London. The world was displaying women's work. Two adjoining booths were intensely interesting to me. These were of the same size—one was filled with orate furniture, expensive carpets, rich hangings, such as only wealth could provide; the other contained plain and simple, inexpensive furniture and was decorated with tissue paper. The visitors to that exhibition were asked to drop a ticket in 331 a box indicating which of the two rooms they would rather live in for the rest of their lives. When the exhibition closed, a great majority voted in favor of the room furnished with the simple things. I wonder if you mothers understand what it means to drop a gentle word day after day to young people, words leading to worthy ideals. I believe I became a teacher because my mother kept before me the thought, "You know your father was a teacher. It is the ideal of this family that you should be a teacher," and she said it over and over again. I did not then understand that she was bending my will toward that profession. By suggestion. By the proper environment, we are able to do a tremendous amount of bending of human souls toward goodness and righteousness. Beautiful pictures, good music, interesting motion pictures are available to all, and we should exercise as individuals and communities our power of selection of that which is worthy. I regret to say as I travel about among the Church, I find that the literature offered the people is not the best— cheap magazines full of ugly stories, instead of magazines brimful with good stories and articles that lift the soul of man. And too often we permit cheap, exciting but not upbuilding shows to occupy the time of our motion picture houses. This great Relief Society through its vast influence may do much to secure the right kind of environment for the sons and daughters of God, of divine heritage. Then comes direct education, much of which is obtained in schools. Direct education may also be obtained in homes; do not forget 382 that. A person may mse to a high educational status through home teaching. We probably place too much upon the shoulders of the school teachers. Fathers and mothers are inclined to say to the school: "You take the children, train them and bring them back to us as we would like to have them be." We have not always directed the schools as we might have done in educating our gitls. We have emphasized in our schools practically every subject for women except those that lie at the foundation of the right kind of woman's life—the science of homemaking—and it is a science. I have long been trying to teach to my fellowmen in this state and Church the importance of training our young women for this science which as wives and mothers lies at the foundation of woman's activity—the eternal principles that lie at the foundation of the making of ahome. We have been so engrossed with art, philosophy, and pure science, that we have given little time to apply human knowledge to the making of the right kind of a home. I do not blame the schools; the schools belong to us—what we desire from them they will do. They do their best and offer us the best knowledge, but we fathers and mothers have often failed to direct our girls into the proper training of women. Our departments for home economics in the high schools and colleges are not filled as they should be, and I find girl after girl—and I travel widely—who has majored in subjects remote from the work she has to do in life. I am saying nothing against other subjects in the schoo] curriculum, but I do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 say that they must take places of secondary importance in the training of womanhood. Subjects that prepare for their life work should hold first place. I want to ask you, my dear sisters, how many of the daughters in your communities have been trained for wifehood? For motherhood? For homemaking? How many are familiat with the great modern gains of knowledge in these fields of human endeavor? The art of living together in the home has to be learned, often by sad experience (read our divorce statistics ), because we have not made use of the opportunities for training for woman's work. My message here today and my plea is that womanhood be trained for its divine work on earth—by indirect methods, through proper environment, and by direct training through studies. Girls should be proud to take courses that lead to homemaking, wifehood, motherhood, and all activities that belong to the home. Let us emphasize the things that count in life; and let us taste also the embellishments of life, but not as the major key of life. This may be a very simple message, but a vital one. The Lord bless us, and be with us, and help us magnify our positions as men and women in the kingdom of God. We have a great message to the world, we are under a great obligation. We cannot be as other people; we must rise above other people in the scheme of life. May God help us to do that in this great organization, which I do respect and honor, I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. The Burdenless Picnic Emily H. VEN those who believe "there is nothing new under the sun" hunt longingly for a different combination or a change of setting that will make a familiar rite seem fresh or will refurbish an old possession. We like our old hat better if we wear it at a new angle, and our old chair is decidedly improved with its festive slip cover. So it is with picnics! They've been with us a long time, and will be for a much longer time, we hope. But it's fun to look at them from an entirely new position. This is the new position: Resolved, that picnics shall be a joy and not a burden! The very name "picnic" connotes fun and frolic. It would be a crime against the few untrammeled English words left us to build up feelings of drudgery and effort around this happy word. When we achieve a burdenless picnic, we are really giving everyone relaxation, refreshment and inspiration—a new vision and a fresh start in life. Incidentally, too, we're making progress in developing organization skill. The burdenless picnic may be achieved anywhere, indoors or out —in the back yard, in that meadow half a mile away or at a distant lake or mountain. The exact location doesn't matter so long as we are able to achieve a measure of seclusion— seclusion, in this case, meaning that for the time being we are able to exclude irritations and worries. Almost any type of picnic can fall into the burdenless class. It may be a most fastidiously prepared and served luncheon, if the one who is preparing it enjoys the process; but for the great majority of picnic Bennett "fans" burdenless means something very much more casual and informal —a marshmallow and wiener roast, for instance. A carefully planned, long-awaited, and even elaborate outdoor party may be great fun; but oftener, the simple surprise picnic is voted the "season's best." You know the kind—you stand at the window at some bright moment and say, "This is the day for a picnic!" and you are off in thirty minutes. How are we to achieve this burdenless picnic, this picnic that is fun all the way through? There may be many things involved, but, in the main, it's a matter of organization, proficiency, and simplicity in equipment, menus and entertainment. And the greatest of these is simplicity! The world is full of a number of things—and 95% of them are gadgets: asbestos gloves and yard-long forks, fully fitted picnic suitcases and barbecue carts, no doubt delightful to own and perhaps helpful. Undoubtedly, over a period of many years, every enthusiastic outdoor family accumulates a certain amount of picnic paraphernalia which they use and enjoy, and certainly no one begrudges it to them. But very little of it is in any way necessary to a very happy picnic. A good pocket or paring knife will point or fork a stick for toasting a bun or a marshmallow. A pair of pliers, some stout wire, and the helpful "Boy Scout" spirit of a son or husband will make a satisfactory grill for holding a frying pan over a bonfire. Newspaper is excellent insulating material and will keep a tightly covered ovenhot casserole hot for hours, if care- 384 fully wrapped and tied around it in voluminous layers (10 or 12). A camping blanket or auto robe swathed about the right-side-up package will further aid in retaining the heat. Pretty trays are lovely for outdoor luncheons, but we have seen many children (and their parents) blissfully happy with a pie plate, a shoe box, or a small peach crate, holding individual portions of the good fare. We have seen many charming picnic tablecloths, but the most interesting (and perhaps the most enjoyed and the least expensive) was made from dish toweling sewed together in strips, with fringed squares for the napkins. As a matter of fact, there is much to be said in favor of the "all paper" party, with a grand bonfire and few things to take home. If you lack camp chairs or garden furniture, try oilcloth squares lined with newspaper, or even rubber kneeling pads. If you haven't a handsome picnic basket, a small laundry clothes-basket, an old-fashioned telescope-bag, or a heavy cardboard packing box will answer just as well. Use what you have with ingenuity and individuality, paying attention, mainly, to cleanliness, neatness and color. LEYS keep the menu simple and good. When we find something which is a great success, let's not mind repeating it. We should practice its preparation over and over until it can be done quickly and, figuratively speaking, with the right hand tied behind us. Let us be the Nobel prize winner in effortless cooking. If we particularly like sandwiches, let's keep a good bread knife and a big board for cutting and spreading at our beck and call. RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 Soft butter, a jar of our favorite spread, waxed paper, crisp, clean lettuce should always be ready. Forethought cuts time and work in half. If we don't care for sandwiches, they may be eliminated. Let us try this combination: a substantial casserole dish (rice, tomatoes, and hamburger; noodles and ham; chili; or corn with sausage); something fresh and crisp (tomatoes, watercress or lettuce); bread and butter; something to drink (water, milk, chocolate milk, or fruit juice); something sweet (shortcake, cup cakes, cookies or homemade taffy). Granted that we all enjoy fried chicken, potato salad, hot rolls, deviled eggs, and chocolate cake, we still vote for the unburdened menu. As for entertainment, there are many sports and much elaborate equipment — horseshoes, baseballs, tennis racquets, swings, slides, teeters—but register another vote for simplicity. An inexpensive ball is probably the most useful family plaything yet invented. It can be tossed by young and old, tall and short, lean and plump. It can be batted, bounced, thrown overhand, underhand, north, south, east, west and in circles. It can provide mild exercise or a teal "work-out." The human voice is another invaluable addition to a picnic. Songs —group or individual, stories, family histories are all enhanced by moon or firelight.. Then, there are auto games! If the ride to the picnic is fairly long, the geography game is always a favorite. Someone gives the name of a city, country, state, mountain, river, almost any geographical name, and someone else, within a specified time limit, must give another which begins with the last let- THE BURDENLESS PICNIC ter of the place or thing named; for example, Utah might be followed by Hawaii, and Hawaii by Idaho. This goes on as long as the desire or ability of the group can sustain it. The greatest fun comes in producing such words as Ypsilanti, or Popocatapetl —it gives one a dashing feeling of having covered the entire world in a few moments. Perhaps the most important point in achieving an effortless picnic is an easy attitude. If one determinedly resists picnicking beyond one's means—time, strength, and enthusiasm—it will be fun. Energy varies greatly in individuals and in families, but it increases noticeably in the relaxing atmosphere of simplicity. Do not strain. Perhaps, too, we should add, do not advise others or write articles such as this, lest you catty the pseudo-expert's burden— "something to live up to!" The "Pie-Tin" lunch for children, to be eaten under an apple tree on a hot day: A. Peanut butter, honey and lettuce sandwiches Strawberries Sponge cake Milk B Tiny raw carrots—scraped Hard-boiled eggs Whole wheat bread and butter Fruit juice Cookies Let one of the more responsible children carry the beverage in a pitcher and pour it on the spot. The "Bonfire Grill" party, to be enjoyed in back yard, canyon, or at the beach: A Kabobs (cheese and bacon squares thrust alternately on a stick, toasted and slipped into buttered buns) 385 Potatoes baked in the bonfire ashes (Start these early.) Fresh fruit or pineapple cubes Toasted marshmallows Orangeade B Grilled hamburgers (Add a little milk, bread crumbs, salt and scraped onion to the ground beef; serve with toasted whole wheat buns.) Chilled tomatoes Raspberries Cup cakes Chocolate milk Individual "Box Picnic," to be eaten in an auto: A Tuna and lettuce sandwiches Grated raw carrot and raisin sandwiches (Moisten filling with a little cream or mayonnaise. ) Cookies Peaches Plenty of paper napkins B Ground ham and egg sandwiches with lettuce Surprise package of peanuts or popcorn Ripe pear or other seasonable fruit Substantial "Fireless Supper," while you enjoy the mountain view: A Casserole of carefully cooked rice (each gtain separate), tomato sauce and browned beef cubes Crisp cabbage and celery-seed slaw Pumpernickle bread and butter Berries and cream. Graham crackers stuck together with icing B Casserole of corn, green peppers and canned salmon (Shrimps or link sausages may be substituted for salmon.) Crisp raw carrot strips Bread and butter Cup cakes split and spread with jam Fruit juice A Problem of Unity Irva Pratt Andrus average mother; she scolded some, loved a great deal and hoped everything for her family of three. Joyce was the eldest, a lovely little girl who often caused Nan to catch her breath in wonder at the happiness of having such a dainty, wee fairy all her own. Joyce was one of those children who, even when very small, dislikes anything soiled. She was like spring sunshine. Charles had arrived three years after Joyce and seemed to have brought with him an over developed love for all that was distasteful to her. He preferred clothes misshapen by expert misuse; pockets bulging with a varied assortment of things, useless but interesting, were his specialty; washing was his Waterloo; noise was his delight. In short, he was an excellent example of what people have come to call "a real boy." Jerry was the baby. While attaining the usual standard for twentythree months, he had also developed a case of hero worship for his brother and a knowledge that when other methods of conveying his wishes failed, he could usually get results with some lusty crying. Such was Nan's family: three healthy, normal children who had bad days and good—a joy and a problem. Tuesday, like many another woman, Nan, with anything but a calm state of mind and with a few stray locks, perhaps even with a streak or so of powder, the result of hurrying Ns BECKENRIDGE was an too fast, especially if the children were indulging in a bad day, arrived at Relief Society meeting barely on time. One Tuesday, the fourth one of the month, she did not arrive on time. The truth is, she almost stayed at home to indulge in tears of frustration. The children were the cause of her perturbance. Jerry had refused to eat; his toys held no interest; he fought against his bath. His wailing only ceased when Nan picked him up and gave him a bit more than half of the attention, even though Charles wanted help with tying his shoe laces. Joyce had left for school with lips quivering and misery written on her face, because Charles had spilled his cereal and unavoidably it had splashed on Joyce, who begged for a fresh dress even after Nan had removed the damage done and explained over and over that all of Joyce's clean aprons were in the ironing and there was no time to get one ready for her before school. Charles had chosen to rise above the situation by singing loudly the disconnected syllables of his own song, that held meaning only for him and always added the finishing touches to general hub-bub. The morning had gone from bad to worse. At one-thirty, Nan decided she would have to stay home; she thought of a dozen good reasons why she should not go, and then she remembered what Tuesday it was. The lesson - would be on family relationships. "Tm going," she told Jerry, as he was the only one around, "I promised Sister Robertson, and maybe A PROBLEM OF UNITY she will know what to do with my problem of family dissension." So even though late, Nan was present to hear the message on Family Unity. The sincere understanding and the glow of inspiration that permeated the lesson filled the heart of every member. Excited and deeply thrilled, Nan caught up the words: "We, the mothers of tomorrow's men and women, are the builders of the foundation of society. God gives us tiny miracles to use for our construction. It is our task to cement with kindness, wisdom and love the lives of our families until they will become a strong part of society's foundation and will hold together whatever batters against the structure of society as a whole. We must preserve the unity of our families." The voice of Sister Robertson vibrated with emotion and conviction. With renewed determination, Nan left the meeting. She had received more than the beauty of the thought that had concluded the lesson. Sister Robertson had suggested so many ways to bring families closer together—family prayers, projects, picnics. Nan loved picnics. She determined that Saturday should be the day and a picnic the means of bringing her family into better harmony. "Tm sure we will settle down to getting along better if we have a whole. Day just to play, without school or work or any of the diverging activities of ordinary days to draw us apart," Nan told the inner voice that reminded her of so many reasons why a picnic might not work. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday were days to try any mother. Nan lived through them, and even man- 387 aged to smile some, because Saturday she felt would bring harmony in their midst again, All preparations were made _ by Friday night. Fred had agreed to postpone the puttering he had planned to do only after Nan did a lot of talking on duty, family unity and just one Saturday. Friday he suggested canceling all plans when the weather man reported showers were in prospect. Nan assured him that the weather man was undoubtedly mistaken, that she knew they would have sunshine; the rain for the season already far exceeded the normal fall. Then there was quite some discussion as to where they would go. Fred was in favor of going to the park. "He would be!" Nan thought. "He rides all week, and we never go any farther than market or church." No, this was to be a real outing, and Nan knew just the place. Her neighbor, Mrs. Brown, had told her of it, and it sounded ideal. "Tm not sure how far it is; we haven't been for about a year," Mrs. Brown had said. "... Not over ten miles though." They could follow road signs right to the spot, and the flowers had been so beautiful when Mrs. Brown had been there. "Of course, we will have to forego the flowers, this being a little early in the year for such," Fred had suggested sarcastically. Nan said, "Flowers or no flowers, it will be some place we've never been to." So that was decided. THE sky was decidedly overcast when they awoke Saturday morning, but Nan refused to let this fact dampen her soaring spirits. This 388 was to be a day of joy shared by all the family. After a hurried breakfast, they piled into the car. Drops of rain began to descend upon their wind-shield after they had gone about five miles; not much but just enough of a drizzle to add weight to the gray sky. Nan ignored the wry face Fred made as he started the wind-shield wiper. "T guess this is the shower the weather man mentioned," she observed. "It will be over and everything will be the fresher for it long before we reach the canyon." Another four miles and the drizzle was still with them, but now there was something else to contend with. The car began pulling strangely to one side. Fred stopped and got out without saying a word. The tight, back tire was quite flat. Nan said nothing either. In their ten years of married journeyings there had been other flat tires, and she had long since learned better than to try light banter or even words of consolation. She listened to Fred's fuming while he changed the tire, and tried with small measure of success to keep the children pacified in the back seat. Jerry was getting tired; he had never cared much for riding, and now began to whimper and tease to get out. Nan looked at the rain that without enthusiasm but with evident determination was coming down and thought of suggesting a return home. Optimist that she was, she hated to give up her planned picnic while there was still a chance of a happy ending, but everything was going so badly. In due time the tire was changed, and Fred appeared with muddy hands, ruffled hair, and a look of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 grimness which forebode more trouble. "A handkerchief, Nan," he said. "Apparently the wash claimed mine and forgot to return it." Nan flushed. How many times had she heard those same words. She wondered if all men carried their handkerchiefs until they were relics unless gathered up on wash day. She wanted to remind Fred that she was generally pretty busy gathering the wash without stopping to see that he had a clean handkerchief to replace the soiled one. She felt disappointed, and her nerves were beginning to jump. Once she would have given voice to her complete discomfort, but now she simply handed him her own handkerchief, which was too small to be very effective, and said nothing. Finally, they were on their way again. The speedometer showed that they had come eleven miles when a sign furnished them with the information that their destination was still three miles away. Fred read the sign and in a sarcastic voice added, "What a long way ten miles can be." Silence crowded the car. Jerry had gone to sleep, and Joyce and Charles were watching raindrops. So far, the whole adventure had produced a depressing effect on them all. "Tf we ever get there, the rain will just have to stop," Nan told herself. "We'll all feel better after stretching a bit." About this time the rain did stop, and a bright spot appeared in the sky marking the place where the sun was valiantly trying to pierce the clouds. Then just when their spirits were beginning to rise a little, they came toa sign. It was mounted on A PROBLEM OF UNITY a barricade that blocked the road, and read: "Road closed for repairs." Fred applied the brakes and turned questioningly to Nan. Even optimists, no matter how determined they are, have to admit defeat sometimes. Nan could see no answer but retreat, especially as the sun was making little gain against the heavy gray above. "I guess we'd better picnic at home," Nan said, and Fred readily agreed. The children rebelled. They didn't want to go home; they were tired and wanted to get out of the car. Nan explained about the rain; she told them of the road being closed; she tried to interest them in the fun they could have at home. Jerry cried. The back seat became the scene of an uprising. Regardless, Fred turned the car around, and in due time they arrived home. The rain had begun. Again; the house was in need of straightening; they were all tired, cross and hungry. Everything seemed exactly wrong, and Nan felt more like hiding away and enjoying the good cry held over from Tuesday than anything else in the world. "Mothers must carry on," she reminded herself and resolutely set about trying to find means of amusing the children as long as the rain kept them all indoors, which turned out to be for the rest of the day. The house was somehow straightened up without unduly disturbing Fred, who stretched out with the newspaper right after lunch. The day was anything but a happy one. By biting her lip and trying her best, Nan succeeded in guiding her little family through without any major outbursts. 389 (COMPLETELY weary and very glad to reach the end of such a disappointing day, Nan at last knelt with her loved ones for family prayer. Just as she bowed her head, Charles let out a war-whoop and landed fairly on top of Nan; then calmly he picked himself up from the floor where he and his victim had rolled and knelt again in his place. Why did he do it? Who can answer for a small boy's impulse? Nan had steeled herself to most of the wild-west antics Charles had subjected her to up until now with a degree of patience; this latest, coming at the end of so many reversals and just as they were ready for prayer, seemed too much. She could bear no more; she crumpled in a heap on the bed and began to cry with all the abandon her rumpled nerves and tired body would permit. Thoroughly frightened, Joyce and Charles tried to comfort her. Fred kept patting her head and saying, "Now, Nan, please don't do this." Little Jerry clung to her and began to cry, too. Nan loved her family with all the devotion a mother's heart could hold, and to see them wretched and unhappy because of her tears was something she could not allow. Her instinct to comfort and cheer these dear ones dried up her tears and choked away her sobs? She had caused them pain by her display of weakness; she had to give them understanding of the cause. Nan put her arms about them and explained as best she could her great desire to make the day that had just passed one that would have brought them closer together. She repeated a great many of Sister Robertson's words, and ended: with: (Continued on page 425) MORMON HANDICRAFT One of Utahs Altractions Nellie O. Parker HEN visiting a city or counW try, one not only wants to see its natural beauty and its places of distinction, but he also wants to learn of its people—of their interests and culture. If he can see the type of work they do and the type of things they are interested in, he can carry away a fuller and more accurate impression of the place. The Temple Square with its remarkable Tabernacle and its inimitable Temple and its monuments of historic significance is generally conceded to be Salt Lake City's outstanding attraction. Located in close proximity is the Mormon Handicraft Shop. It is extremely interesting and will give the traveler an added insight into the character and culture of the people who have built this commonwealth on the edge of the American Desert. The Shop displays a variety of handwork which is remarkable: for its excellence of workmanship and materials, and which bespeaks the industry, thrift and versatility of the people. Practically all of the arts and crafts, painting, sculpturing, modeling, etc., are shown. In no other place can be found such a cosmopolitan collection of handmade articles—the result of a people having been drawn from almost every country in the world. In the Shop there can be found the wood carving of Switzerland; the rare old laces and embroideries of France, Italy, and Scandinavia; filmy, cobweb-like netting, which is now almost a lost art; weaving equal to any of Sweden; as well as crocheting, knitting, tatting, hemstitching, and monogramming, Germany, British Isles, and other countries have also made large contributions to this handicraft, as has the American Indian. Mormon women are noted for their fine quilts. In nearly every ward Relief Society throughout the Church, on the second Tuesday of each month, quilts are made for charity and to fill special orders. The women have been making quilts ever since the Relief Society's organization in 1842, so one can expect to see many beautiful quilts of varying types and patterns in the Shop. There are handmade rugs of many varieties just like the ones the pioneer women made to put on their log cabin floors to soften the crudeness and to make their homes cozy and livable. Any modern woman would love to own one or more of them. Then, there are dainty aprons, handkerchiefs, luncheon sets and doilies, and the most adorable pioneer dolls, some in sunbonnets and calico dresses and others in silks and dress-up clothes. Hand-etched, handhammered articles made of Utah copper and silver are there. In fact, there are so many attractive and useful things to be found in the Shop that one can easily find souvenits and gifts representative of Utah that would bea delight to own, and which would be a pleasant reminder of a visit to this unusual place. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde "Without faith it is impossible to please him."—Heb. 11:6. Story-telling. Long, long before there was a written language and before the development of picture-writing, the story was used to educate people in the history of the race and to establish principles of conduct. Stories were sung by bards, minstrels, and poets. Many centuries later, Christ used them to develop character in his followers, and today they are our method of interpreting life to our group if we are teachers and to our families if we are parents. Children need stories to help them build ideals, and adults need them to renew the ideals built up in youth and to arouse enthusiasm for greater usefulness. Faith is a most important principle in life. Faith is too important in conduct to be disregarded. Let us never be so unwise as to feel that it makes no difference whether we believe or not. Faith is not an arbitrary requirement, it is fundamental. All important things have been done by faith, and the world could not go on without it. Emerson referred to it when he said, "Hitch your wagon to a star." Carlyle said, "A man lives by believing something, not by debating and arguing about many things." The Apostle Paul, ridiculed as he was, answered, "I believe and therefore speak." Martin Luther said, "Here stand I. I cannot do otherwise. God help me." Joan of Arc, the maid who was almost perfect in a profligate and wicked age, won freedom Tos oldest art in the world is for her country because of her faith in the voices that directed her movements. But faith is not merely being credulous. It is seeing and then daring to do. In religious education a most important principle is faith—faith in God. It is vitality in religion; it made martyrs of the apostles of Christ; it made it possible for early Mormon leaders to endure great persecutions; it is the thing that brings peace to men who have been misunderstood and who have met disappointment. Faith dignifies a man, for it "makes him a co-worker with the forces that keep the stars in their orbits and hold the earth to its course round the sun." To have permanence of character we must have a perfect ideal, and the only perfect ideal is Christ. We speak of building up Christian character. This involves -establishing a knowledge of God and his laws and creating a reverential attitude toward things religious. This can best be done at story-telling time. Whether we be children or adults, at this time our minds are open to impressions. The emotions may easily be swayed toward good or bad. For fireside reading we suggest A Lesson of Faith,* which is suitable for all ages. It might be a fatal mistake to say to a skeptical son, "Have faith," but he will never forget the truth of this story. For very young children *A Lesson of Faith, by Mrs. Gatty, is taken from In the Child's World, by Emily Poulson, and is used by permission of A, Flanagan Company. 392 A Lesson of Faith has the qualities of a good story. Caterpillars and butterflies are familiar objects to them. The story has interest because the characters talk, and it is full of action. To adults the story is an allegory. We see in it the person who has discovered a truth which he is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 trying to tell to others. We see the skeptic who cannot believe anything he has not seen himself, and we have the doubting world which says, "She is quite out of her head." Read it and think for yourself upon the statement, "If this part is true, it must all be true." A Lesson of Faith (Nature Parable) Mrs. Gatty MILD, green Caterpillar was one day strolling about on a cabbage leaf, when there settled beside her a beautiful Butterfly. The Butterfly fluttered her wings feebly and seemed very ill. "T feel very strange and dizzy," said she, addressing the Caterpillar, "and I am sure that I have but a little while to live. But I have just laid some butterfly eggs on this cab. Bage leaf, and if I die there will be no one to care for my baby butterflies. I must hire a nurse for them at once. May I hire you as a nurse, kind Caterpillar? I will pay you with gold from my wings." With that the poor Butterfly drooped her wings and died, and _ the Caterpillar had no chance to so much as say, "Yes" or "No". "Dear me!" she exclaimed, as she looked at the butterfly eggs beside her, "what sort of a nurse will I make for a group of gay young butterflies? Much attention they will pay to the advice of a plain caterpillar like me. The best I can," she added. And all that night she walked around and around the butterfly eggs to see that no harm came to them. "I wish that I had someone wiser than myself to consult with," she But I shall have to do C said to herself next morning. "I might talk it over with the Housedog. But no," she added hastily, "he is kind, but big and rough, and one brush of his tail would whisk all the eggs off the cabbage leaf." "There is Tom Cat," she went on, after thinking a few moments, "but he is lazy and selfish, and he would not give himself the trouble to think about butterfly eggs." "Ah, but there's the Lark!" she exclaimed at length. "He flies far up into the heavens, and perhaps he knows more than we creatures that live upon the earth. I'll ask him." So the Caterpillar sent a message to the Lark, who lived in a neighboring comfield, and she told him all her troubles. "And I want to know how I, a poor crawling Caterpillar, am to feed and care for a family of beautiful young butterflies. Could you find out for me the next time you fly away up into the blue heavens?" "Perhaps I can," said the Lark, and off he flew. Higher and higher he winged his way until the poor, crawling Caterpillar could not even hear his song, to say nothing of seeing him. After a very long time, the Lark came back. SOME LITERARY FRIENDS "I found out many wonderful things," he said. "But if I tell them to you, you will not believe me." "Oh, yes, I will," answered the Caterpillar hastily. "I believe everything I am told." "Well then," said the Lark, "the first thing I found out was that the butterfly eggs will turn into little green caterpillars, just like yourself, and that they will eat cabbage leaves just as you do." "Wretch!" exclaimed the Caterpillar, bristling with indignation. "Why do you come and mock me with such a story as that? I thought you would be kind, and would try to help me." "So I would," answered the Lark, "but I told you that you would not believe me," and with that he flew away to the cornfield. "Dear me," said the Caterpillar sorrowfully. "When the Lark flies so far up into the heavens I should not think he would come back to us poor creatures with such a silly tale. And I needed help so badly." "T would help you if you would only believe me," said the Lark, flying down to the cabbage patch once more. "I have wonderful things to tell you, if you would only have faith in me and trust in what I say." "And you are not making fun of me?" asked the Caterpillar. "Of course not," answered the Lark. "Tf you could fly with me and see the wonders that I see, here on earth, and away up in the blue sky, you would not say that anything was impossible," replied the Lark. "But," said the Caterpillar, "you tell me that these eggs will hatch out into caterpillars, and I know that their mother was a butterfly, for 393 I saw her with my own eyes, and so, of course, they will be butterflies. How could they be anything else? I am sure I can reason that far, if I cannot fly." "Very well," answered the Lark, "then I must leave you, though I have even more wonderful things that I could tell. But what comes to you from the heavens, you can only receive by faith, as I do. You cannot crawl around on your cabbage leaf and reason these things out." "Oh, I do believe what I am told —at least," she added, "everything that is reasonable to believe. Pray tell me what else you learned." "IT learned," said the Lark, impressively, "that you will be a butterfly yourself some day." "Now, indeed, you are making fun of me," exclaimed the Caterpillar, ready to cry with vexation and disappointment. But just at that moment she felt something brush against her side, and, turning her head, she looked in amazement at the cabbage leaf, for there, just coming out of the butterfly eggs, were eight or ten little green caterpillars —and they were no more than out of the eggs before they began eating the juicy leaf. Oh! How astonished and how ashamed the Caterpillar felt. What the Lark had said was true!: And then a very wonderful thought came to the poor, green Caterpillar. "If this part is true, it must be all true, and some day I shall be a butterfly." She was so delighted that she began telling all her caterpillar friends about it, but they did not believe her any more than she had believed the Lark. 394 "But I know, I know," she kept saying to herself. And she never tired of hearing the Lark sing of the wonders of the earth below, and of the heavens above. And all the time, the little green caterpillars on the leaf grew and thrived wonderfully, and the big green Caterpillar watched them and cared for them carefully every hour. One day, the Caterpillar's friends gathered around her and said, very sorrowfully, "It is time for you to spin your chrysalis and die." But the Caterpillar replied, "You fs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 mean that I shall soon be changed into a beautiful butterfly. How wonderful it will be." And her friends looked at one another sadly and said, "She is quite out of her mind." Then the Caterpillar spun her chrysalis and went to sleep. And by and by, when she awakened, oh, then she knew that what the Lark had learned in the heavens was true, for she was a beautiful butterfly with gold dust on her wings. MY TASK By Irene R. Davis I should not be too critical! Nor say, "This child is dull, his intellect is slow." I cannot see beyond the years when he Shall have arrived, and judge me, too. Abilities and unsuspected talents dwell Buried deep, beneath confusion of an adult world, Striving mightily to manifest themselves to light As black clouds of doubt and Uncertainty are furled It is not given me to make, create a mind, Nor mine to say, nor judge its worth— Mine the task to train and mold the clay Such as it is. To give a bit of inspiration birth! OD Good Books Make Good Vacations NNE COLVER, author of LISTEN FOR THE VOICES and daughter of a newspaper man, spent a summer in Concord gathering material for this novel, which was published in 1939 by Farrar and Rinehart. In this narrative, imaginary characters mingle with illustrious men and women who lived in Concord in 1850. The actual persons, "who with their families appear directly or indirectly in the novel," number thirty-three and include the following: Emerson, Thoreau, the Alcott family, Stowe, Garrison, Hawthorne, Hopkins. It is interesting to note that a direct quotation starts each chapter: an excerpt from the writings of Thoreau or Hawthorne, a portion of Emerson's Journal, a part of an article appearing in Godey's Lady's Book, an inscription on a tombstone in Concord, etc. All these add to the feeling of intimate acquaintance with the period and the people in Concord. "The picture is simple, neighborly, warm."—D. D. S. M* ANTONIA (Antene'a), a book of 371 pages, written by Willa Cather, published by Heinemann Publishing Company, London, in 1918, and recently revised and published by Houghton Mifflin Company, New York, is one of the great American novels. On the plains of Nebraska with this Bohemian family and the orphaned Jimmy from Virginia, you are gripped with the feeling of the country. Antonia seems to mean the country, the conditions, in fact the whole pioneering adventure of tearing up roots grown deep in one place, to re-root and flower in a new country or a new frontier. 'The author succeeds in raising life above the level of the personal to the universal._R. B. B. RICHARD LLEWELLYN'S book, HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY, published by Macmillan Company in 1940, scores high for the type of modern novel conspicuous for its absence of obscenity. In this beautiful valley in Wales, life is lived in shacks bordering underground mines. The unwholesome atmosphere, the squalid living conditions are surmounted by the beautiful though simple family life in which we find feminine loveliness standing beside strong manhood. The book is long, but never dull._R. B. B. —— i __—___§—_ THE MORMON HANDICRAFT GIFT SHOP. IS YOUR SHOP For your vacation gifts to be given to friends and family, make a selection from the exquisite articles on sale: "Anne Chavre" pioneer dolls, beautiful handkerchiefs, sweaters, hand-painted china, guest towels, aprons that are different, scores of lovely gifts. Come — Look — Buy. The Sunny Side of the Hill COLORED WINGS Lella Marler Hoggan My hands are washing dishes, But my soul is faring far, Following a white, white cloud Toward a silvery star; Running down wild woodland ways That Atalanta trod; Kneeling at some ancient shrine Where saints have worshipped God. Lord, let my hands be busy With homely little things, But let my soul go questing— Ah, give it flaming wings! —Author Unknown. REAMS and visions influence the destiny of mankind. Prophets are needed to furnish true patterns of life; but also, there must be workmen to execute the plans. Dreams are powerful to the extent that they are materialized. Visions uplift humanity only when they are wrought into life." Life is dual: the body and the spirit, the real and the ideal, the loaf and the song. 'There is the everyday practical you that must be fed and clothed and sheltered; there is the spiritual you that rises on the wings of inspiration to commune with the Most High. There is the you, who like Martha of old, is "cumbered with much serving"; and the you, who like Mary, takes time out to sit at the Master's feet to be taught of Him. Albert Edward Wiggam has said that man should be fitted for a job, because he must make'a living; and provided with ideals, because he must make a life. Every great achievement is born of inspiration and earnest effort. The one is not without the other in the world of progress. The artist to perform his work must have paint and canvas and brushes. But back of his craftsmanship must be personality, the ideal, the vision that gives life to the picture, that endues it with the soul of beauty and of truth. We need wings as well as feet of clay. Essential to life itself are the little duties of every day, but devotion to a cause redeems effort from drudgery. When tasks are performed with eager, loving hands, they become a sacrament. It matters not so much what task the hand: performs if the heart is in the work and if the soul rises to bring out of it something beautiful and distinguished. To those who see the rainbow above the clouds there are no common days, no menial tasks. From humble homes have come some of the greatest spirits of the earth, men and women whose time has been often filled with common labor. The young mother who provides her baby with nourishing food, clean linen, and wholesome surroundings is doing more than keeping her child clean, well and happy. She is building into his life eternal values. Out of the habitual routine of his daily life may come the establishing of all of the cardinal virtues. Is she not weaving a tapestry of life? There are the brief, bright threads of daily joy, and the long, strong threads of moral fiber, all going into the pattern that will at last show itself in a strong, well-balanced character. No day should seem long or dull to the mother who has vision of her work, who realizes that she has in her keeping a child of God, one who THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL later in life may assume positions of trust and honor in his nation or his church, a child who may one day rise and call her blessed. YOUTH, living on the sunny side of the hill, is forever in quest of joy. It feels sure that every storm will spread a shining rainbow across its sky of blue. But we who walk more softly sometimes forget that storms spread rainbows. Time has left its marks of pain and sorrow on our hearts. We have had our day. Now we have our memories. What more need we seek? Are not adventure and achievement for youth? But hold! Why should we count the years and accept them as stop signs to our progress? Truth and beauty, all of the priceless treasures, are ageless. Why should we not go on garnering the loveliest gifts of life as long as life lasts? We don't have to accept as ours the patterns that have been shaped by the aged men and women of the past. We can make our own pattern, looking ever to the Divine for guidance. Everything in nature arrays itself in new attire each year. The oldest trees in the world drop their leaves annually and clothe themselves in new beauty. We never become too old to moult. Why should we not shed our gray, aged feathers of doubt and fear and adorn ourselves in the bright plumage of faith and hope? Out of his dull, lifeless shell a new moth emerges. A short time ago he was a caterpillar crawling in the dust and eating leaves. Now he comes forth with flaming wings ready to mount to summer skies. May not we rise from our outgrown 397 yesterdays? May not we wing our spirits for greater flight? There is no reason why older people should sit alone and lonely through uneventful days. Even the commonest tasks can be made beautiful. We fill our hands with drab monotonies, nor try to see the color and the sheen of ideality that is back of all necessary work. Out of long years of experience there are always treasures worth saving. Too often we store our lamp of inspiration in some dark basement and forget that we own such a rare gift. There is no reason why we should not bring it forth and burnish it and fill it with oil for a second lighting. If we add a little new fibre to our growth each year, we may prolong our blossoming season instead of going to seed early. We can't hope to be always on the crest of the wave. Deep shadows but serve to accentuate the highlights of life. And though we arise to a day shattered with disappointment, let us remember that even the darkest day has its tomorrow—a tomorrow that may restore our lost yesterdays. If we but listen for it, there is a merry tune to accompany the work of every day. If we but search for it, we shall find that joy goes singing along the highways of life. Fragrance and flaming beauty are to be found at every turn of the road. Great truths and devoted service are for age as well as youth. The riper years are rich in spiritual values. Says Grace Ingles Frost: Though I am by the earth clad, A star-dust fills my eyes With sheen which lends them potency, A God to visualize.* *Used by permission of the author. 'Let Your Light So Shine" Anna S. Barlow T was a land of beauty and sunshine, a land of wild flowers and gray-purple sage that the pioneers first gazed upon as they stood on the foothills that July morning in 1847. The panorama before them was a welcome sight to their tired souls, and they were deeply grateful because of their wonderful blessings. They set about cultivating the rich soil and building homes, and soon cities grew out of the wilderness— beautiful cities where trees, shrubs and flowers, planted and cultivated by industrious men and women, added their charm to the natural splendor of the landscape. 'The desert was truly made "to blossom as the tose." The pioneers lived deeply and created greatly, and we honor them for making it possible for us to enjoy the privilege of living in this choice land. On the eve of the centennial celebration of the pioneers' entrance into the Salt Lake Valley, what greater tribute can we pay to them than to show the same pride and desire for the beautiful that they expressed in their lives by beautifying homes and communities. It is necessary for us to keep well in mind the part that we as individuals must play in the beautification campaign that has been instituted by our state and our Church to make our communities more attractive to the many strangers who will visit us during the next few years. Each must play his part, and all must work unitedly. In order to appreciate the true value of our participation in the campaign, we must take a broad view and see the community as a whole. If there is one broken-down fence or one untidy yard on the street, then the beauty of that street is marred. Our state has many beautiful, natural scenic attractions. Our people as a whole are judged by the appearance of the communities through which the tourist travels in reaching these scenic wonders. This is a challenge to every interested citizen of Utah who is proud of his state and interested in its reputation. If we will get close to the soil and help to create beauty as our pioneer forefathers did, our lives will be enriched immeasurably and our efforts will pay large dividends in health, enjoyment and spiritual values. Neat home surroundings with flowers, lawns, trees and shrubbery have a decidedly uplifting effect upon the occupants of the household, and these improvements will be reflected in a more cheerful and pleasant atmosphere about the home, the neighborhood and the community as a whole; while on the other hand, untidiness and ugliness about the home grounds have a tendency to depress the members of the household and are conducive to unhappiness and discontent. There are a great many people who could be made infinitely happier if someone would inspire them to make their immediate surroundings more attractive. Perhaps by beautifying your surroundings you may be that inspiration. Our homes may remain basically the same from year to year, but time "LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE" should make them more charming and livable. Through pride and industry, they can be made mote attractive, more comfortable and restful, more livable and more homely. When one beautifies his own property, he has respect for it. It is an easy step from respect for one's own property to respect for another's. Respect for the property of others is a cardinal virtue and one that we could well spend a little time in cultivating. Streets are a reflection of the citizens of our cities. Beautiful trees, shrubs and flowers bespeak an industrious and refined people, while 399 weeds, debris and untidiness denote indolence and lack of pride. Time spent in improvement and beautification of homes and communities brings rich rewards in improved characters and in aesthetic values. Latter-day Saints have been commissioned by our Father "to be a light unto the world" (Doc. And Cov., 103:7-9). Let those who come into our midst see the ideals and high standards of our people reflected in well-kept homes and communities. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Matthew, 5:16). THIS IS A PRETTY LITTLE PLACE Eva Willes Wangsgaard High in the mountains where the timber thinned To meadowland, a lake of grasses stirred Fragrant with sun and arching in the wind Under delphinium, tall and azure-spurred. The aspen leaves were shimmering links of light, Dropping thin shadows like a beaded chain Where gold had centered every daisy's white, And columbines were lucent porcelain. The sun was stilled high in the arc of noon And, lemon-winged, a moth had paused to feed, Keeping in grassy arches, blossom-strewn, The silent ritual of flower and seed. A lark's song trilled, and tinged with glad surprise I saw the untamed West through Fremont's eyes. COO THAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon UNE—Lift up thy heart and rejoice; all nature sings of a day in June. THE San Diego Camp Daughters of Utah Pioneers unveiled a monument last winter in honor of the arrival there of the Mormon Battalion. In 1847, which after its long march found a refuge and temporary home in the deserted pueblo founded by the Franciscan fathers, in 1769. President Heber J. Grant made a special trip to pronounce the dedicatory prayer, and Mrs. Ida M. Kirkham, president general of the Daughters, was one of the speakers. DASY HARRIMAN, U nited States. Minister to Norway, proved a woman can be efficient, alert and capable. She was first to notify the world that Norway and Germany were at war and fulfilled admirably all requirements of her high office under most difficult conditions. ATHARINE F. LENROOT, Chief of the United States Children's Bureau, while on a recent tour through the western states in the study of children's problems, said, "The best way to benefit children is to rehabilitate the home." RINCESS FAUZIA is the name of the second daughter of King Farouk and Queen Farida of Egypt; she was born last April. The letter "F"' seems a favorite with this royal family; the first girl is named Ferial. JACQUELINE COCHRAN set a new national speed record this spring in air-flying, outdistancing all by several kilometers. ME. LUISA TETRAZZINI, golden-voiced soprano of grand opera, died recently in Milan. Not only will she always be remembered by the musical world but by everyone who ever was thrilled by the power of her lovely voice and perfect acting. JOAN and Mary Campbell, daughters of one of Utah's pioneer educators, died last April, age 83. These two sisters had remarkable careers during the long years. They claim the distinction of being first among women in several lines of service. Joan was the first woman appointed to a government position in the Tertitory, in 1874, receiving a commission as notary by joint legislative enactment signed by Governor Wood; Mary was the first woman clerk in Z. C. M. 1; both held clerical positions in Church offices. ELMA LAGERLOF, Swedish writer, who died in April, was the first woman to win the Nobel prize for literature. "RACE M. CANDLAND'S sonnet Hills is included in the April issue of the poetry magazine called Westminster Magazine of Oglethorpe, Georgia—the only Utah contribution. LICE TISDALE HOBART'S In Their Own Country, Susan Glaspell's The Morning Is Near Us, Gwen Bristow's This Side of Glory, Pearl S. Buck's Other Gods, Margaret Sangster's Reluctant Star, Phyllis Bently's The Power and the Glory are new novels by women vacationists will enjoy. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth Amy Brown Lyman - Marcia K. Howells Donna _ D. Sorensen Vera W. Pohlman - - Belle S. Spafford Nellie O. Parker Vivian R. McConkie Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen: Beatrice F. Stevens Achsa E. Paxman Rae B. Barker Mary G. Judd Editor - c - Acting Business Manager THE GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ' President First Counselor Second Counselor - - Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garft i Leona B. Fetzer Lisnieme @ BienD Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Belle S. Spafford Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXVII JUNE, 1940 No. 6 CEDI ORIAL C Pray Always Shat Ye Faint Mot S the great news mediums of the day constantly pour forth their harrowing stories of war, our hearts tremble with anxiety and our souls are stirred to the depths over the wanton destruction, suffering, and loss of life incident to such great national conflicts. We know that in all the warring nations are those who are peace-loving, people of fine ideals and worthy achievement; there are those who would go about their humble, daily tasks contented with life; those who would love their fellow men and find joy in service to them. Yet the demon of war has touched these people and drawn them into the conflict whether they would or would not. The malignant spirit of evil is rampant, and untold suffering is extant. Our hearts go out in sympathy to those so sorely afflicted. Yet how helpless we feel in the face of such world-harrowing calamities. Though the women are not called to shoulder arms, they carry a great deal of the burden of war. We know the heartbreak that is every mother's who sends her loved ones out to battle. We know the strict disciplines of war which she must accept —the firm controls, the shortened rations. Working in the fields and in many other ways, she must perform the tasks of absent husband and sons who have answered the call. Raising funds, providing clothing and other necessities form a noteworthy phase of women's work. Nursing wounded and invalid soldiers, not a few have paid with their lives for their sublime devotion to the demands of pity, charity, love, and patriotism. - Woman's war record is a record of quiet, unostentatious, self-sacrificing heroism. And how may the grief and anguish of these valiant wives and mothers who are caught in the meshes of war be mitigated? Only through turning to their God. With renewed devotion they must seek Him. They must pray, frequently and fervently, for comfort and solace. The Lord has said: "Praying always that they faint not; and inasmuch as they do this, I will be with them 402 even unto the end (Doc. And Cov., Sec, 75:11). And we who are in Zion must also pray. We must unite our prayers with those of our sisters across the sea, that the comforting influence of the Father will sustain us all in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 these perilous times; that men will repent and cease to do evil; that peace may once again reign upon the earth so that mankind everywhere may enjoy the earth and the fullness thereof. Vacations Shat Re-Create MEN have long recognized that with health are interwoven most of the fortunes of life. Yet the world is full of people who do not enjoy optimum health. Though most of us come from vigorous racial stock, though we live in a relatively healthful climate, though our knowledge of the rules of health is fairly extensive, we frequently find ourselves ailing, our vitality low, our physical fitness not quite up to par. Because of the operation of a wide variety of forces today, one of the most common ailments of a great majority of us is fatigue. 'The nerves, the mind, the body suffer from this miserable malady. It asserts itself in restlessness, irritability, languor, lack of concentration, disturbed sleep, reduced efficiency, a drawn expression of the face, and numerous other _ ways. But fatigue is in reality a protective measure, for it is nature's warning to us that it is time to rest. Rest is a fundamental law of health. Every part of the body requires its periods of rest. It is during these rest periods that tissues are nourished and the body restored. As the summer season approaches, most of us are looking forward with anticipation to a vacation. Webster Says a vacation is an intermission from labor, a period of rest. How many of us make our vacations conform to this definition? Do we plan the type of activity that will provide surcease from the taxing routines in which we are daily engaged? Do we view vacations as periods in which to rebuild ourselves that we may return to our labors with renewed vitality? Or, do we feverishly search about for something stimulating to do— some place exciting to go, returning with nerves taxed and bodies tired, grateful for the order and regularity of our normal lives? Everyone needs a vacation—the school child, the tired mother, the busy business man. No matter how urgent may be the demands of labor, we should occasionally take a vacation; for truly, "All work makes Jack a dull boy." But vacations should be more than a few days set aside in which to travel far and spend much. They should be days of genuine recreation—days in which to conquer that commonest of all ailments— fatigue. CEFR No TO THE FIELD Educa tional Courses Combined Attention: Stake and ward executive officers, Social Service and Education for Family Life class leaders IN line with the recommendation of the General Authorities of the Church that the auxiliaries simplify their programs and conserve the time and energy of both officers and members, the General Board announces that the Social Service course and the course on Education for Family Life will be combined into a single department. The name Social Service will be used to designate the department. The subject matter to be used will be in the field of sociology, which embraces material appropriate to the interests and needs of both groups. A detailed announcement of the plan for 1940- 41 is included in the lesson previews under Social Service Department, page 423, in this issue of the Magazine. Work-andBusiness Outlines to be Published FoR the Relief Society year 1940- 41, the General Board has outlined a program for discussion on Work-and-Business Day, titled Food Makes a Difference, to be used in addition to the handwork. The importance of such a program will be readily recognized. However, its use in the local organizations is optional. Subject matter which will provide a basis for eight discussions will be published in the Relief Society Magazine. This will not only provide ia more permanent record of the course but will make the material easily available to both class leaders and members. The material will be included in the Lesson Department under the heading Work-andBusiness. See Lesson Preview, page 421, in this issue of the Magazine. General Board Lesson Outlines FOR the past two years, the General Board has prepared and sent to the stakes and missions detailed, mimeographed lesson outlines, including carefully selected quotations and supplementary references. During the year 1938-39, outlines on three lessons selected from each of the three major courses of study (Theology, Literature, Social Service) were prepared and sent to the stakes and missions; during 1939-40 outlines were sent on the theology lessons only. The purpose of these outlines was to aid stake and mission class leaders who were having difficulty in finding suitable and authentic material for lesson enrichment, as well as to show how some of the teaching theory presented in the class leader's department at the conference-conventions might be applied in lesson planning. While these outlines were well received, the General Board feels that it is not necessary to continue them for the year 1940-41. The new 404 lessons are of such a nature that no difficulty is anticipated in finding ample supplementary lesson material in any of the courses of study. The teaching performance of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church justifies the opinion of the General Board that further outRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 lining in the interest of lesson planning is not necessary at the present time. The General Board is very proud of its hundreds of class leaders whose work reflects thorough study, careful lesson planning and skilled presentation. University of Utah Summer Session PROGRAMS of special interest to Relief Society women are scheduled for the 1940 summer session - of the University of Utah. An Institute of Education for Family Life will be held from June 17 to 21, inclusive. The program for the week has been arranged by the local committee (Winifred Hazen, chairman) in cooperation with Professor Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University. The following sessions to be held in Kingsbury Hall should be found particularly profitable: Monday, June 17, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "Education for Family Life"— Howard W. Odum. Tuesday, June 18, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "'Are Modern Parents Helpless?" —Henry Neumann. Thursday, June 20, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "What About Your Family's Food?""—Margaret S. Chaney. Friday, June 21, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "Family Life, the Threshold of Democracy' —Flora M 'Thurston. The Tree of Liberty, selected for use in the Relief Society Literature department for 1940-41, will be reviewed Wednesday, July 3, 11:00 a. M. By Dr. Henry Neumann. The University summer session provides wonderful opportunity for us to contact the Nation's outstanding authorities in their various fields. Howard W. Odum is Kenan Professor of Sociology and Director of the School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. He has a fine reputation both as a teacher and lecturer. The Bulletin states that "were it not for the fact that Dr. Odum has a professional interest in social research in Utah he would not be available for summer session teaching; his coming... Is a rare opportunity for students in Education, Psychology, Sociology, and Social Work." Dr. Henry Neumann, Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture, is well known as an author, teacher and lecturer. Relief Society women are acquainted with his excellent work through his participation on previous University summer session programs. Margaret S. Chaney is chairman of the Department of Home Economics, Connecticut College. She is an expert in Nutrition and is well known nationally through her articles in leading scientific journals and through her textbook, Nutrition (joint authorship with M. Ahlborn). NOTES TO THE FIELD 405 Relief Society Beautification Assignment HE Church Beautification committee some time ago recommended that every ward have a Beautification committee to be composed of a representative of each of the auxiliary groups and Priesthood quotums. 'These committees were requested to make a careful study to determine the needs for improving and beautifying Church buildings and grounds and to definitely plan how the desired results might be accomplished. The Church committee now suggests a division of responsibility among auxiliary groups and Priesthood quorums in seeing that every phase of cleanliness and beautification receive careful attention. In suggesting definite assignments for special groups it is not the intention of the general committee to interfere with the work of the ward committee, the custodian or other individuals regularly employed by the bishop in the care and beautification of the chapel and grounds. Only through close cooperation, however, and fixing responsibility can a full measure of success be achieved. It is suggested that the Relief Society see that the interior of Church buildings be kept clean—-the general assembly rooms, class rooms, halls, and rest rooms. Floors and floor coverings should be kept clean, benches and chairs well dusted, windows washed, curtains and draperies laundered or dry cleaned at regular intervals. Drinking fountains, toilets, and wash basins should be kept sanitary and in good working order. Soap, towels and toilet paper should be regularly supplied. Special attention should be given the Sacrament service. Clean trays and glasses, proper linen and a convenient receptacle for washing hands prior to administration should be provided. In asking the Relief Society to be responsible for checking on the cleanliness of the chapel, it is not expected that they do the actual work; their cooperation with the custodian and others regularly employed by the bishop is requested. Church-Wide Hymn Singing Project HE congregational hymns to be sung during the next three months as a part of the Church-wide hymn singing project are as follows: July, No. 283, "Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers". August, No. 13, "The Happy Day Has Rolled On". September, No. 345, "Great God, to Thee Our Evening Song". A detailed announcement of this project was published in the April issue of the Relief Society Magazine, under "Notes to the Field", page 257. The general music committee of the Church is launching this project in order that Church membership may have a larger repertoire of excellent hymns. Cathedral of Peace Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER EIGHT TAGGERING 'slightly, Carolyn went out of the yard, over the uncertain footbridge across West Fork, into the shadows of the bottoms. Oblivious to brush and undergrowth she walked woodenly on, her body one dull point of pain. At the Cathedral she stopped. Stiffly, she sat down upon the fallen log. The shadows deepened. Still she did not move. Then an orange moon rose and tried to pierce the gloom that surrounded her. "There is only one thing left to do." The words spoken into the night startled her with their boldness. Rising, she went out of the field and across the highway to the home of Kane Holland. At last she was ready to listen to him. Coming toward the house from a field, Kane saw her. He saw her coming up the walk, and even in the moonlight her face was a white spot. His heart leaped. For one moment he stopped and drew a deep breath. Then he hurried to meet her at his front door steps. "Carolyn. What is it?" He took her arm and steered her to a seat on the wide porch. "I—I've left." The words struggled past stiff lips. "No, Carolyn. You are upset." "T have left," she reiterated. "I have come to you." Presently, out of a long silence, he asked, "What happened? 'Tell me if you can. It will help you." She turned and looked at him. "Did you ask me something?" "What happened? Why did you leave?" "Carson. He drove him away. He is gone—forever." "Where did he go?" "To: the Cross Line, on Cow Creek." Again there was a long silence. Kane sat upon the step below her. He looked out over the valley. The Cathedral was spectral in the moonlight. "Carolyn," he said at length, "you cannot come to me. You still love Turner." "T hate him." and flat. "Are you sure?" "T am very sure." Again Kane looked away. His hands, between his knees, were clinched to grayness. For years he had waited and hoped for this chance, and now that it had come it was empty. It had to be empty, for last night he had seen something. "T watched you last night," he said slowly. "I saw Turner hold you in his arms. I saw the light that flooded your face: Then I knew." "Knew?" "Knew that divorce is not your answer; knew that in your secret heart you are happy to belong to him. That is as it should be. You like me. I am comfortable. I am soothing. I have helped to sustain your ego." "Kane! What do you mean?" "I don't know, except that you belong to Turner and your place is Her voice was low CATHEDRAL OF PEACE with him. Was he much concerned over the boy leaving?" "He was stunned, but still he made no move to call him back." "Did you try to help him, to comfort him?" "Comfort him! No. He is a man. Carson is his son." "Come sit by me." When she was sitting on the step, he took one of her hands in both of his and looked at it a long time. When he spoke, the words came slowly but firmly. "For years I have watched -you and your family. I have dreamed of doing the things for you that Turner doesn't do. I have been deeply grateful for the confidence of your boys. But what I want is impossible. ~ You cannot turn back the pages of time, nor can you tear them from your life. The things I have wanted most belong to another man and always will, even though I reach out and take them. A comfortable substitute is the best I could ever be." "What do you mean?" "T mean that Turner is still the man in your life. Without him you would be lost." "No. That isn't so." "But it is. You are both on strange paths, and it will be hard to find your way back. A great deal of this is your fault." "My fault?" "Yes. You haven't kept up with him. He is progressive and proud. There is no excuse for you, his wife, being as you are. You create a sense of futility and failure within him." "T am the same woman he martied." Bitterly. "No, I think not. I heard him say once that a man marries a woman 407 not alone for what she is but for what she may become. If that part of the dream isn't realized, something is lost, especially for a man of Turner's ability. He was so proud of you last night. So proud—No," as she would have spoken, "it wasn't just the clothes. It was what the clothes and attention did to you. His love is still there. If you are willing to work you will find it." "Tt isn't worth the effort." "You thought so once. The future of your children depends on it. I suspect that to hold Carson you must conquer the condition in your home." "The future of my children is already ruined, just as their past has been." "You are unforgiving, aren't you?" "Kane, how can you talk so to me?" Long repressed sobs burst through her wall of restraint—quiet, hopeless sobs that tore at the heart of the man beside her. He stared unseeing before him. He had to do this. All day he had been facing it. If she came to him, she must come wholeheartedly, leaving nothing behind. "You are mild," he continued, at length. "You have no idea how hard it is to control a temper like Turner's. You haven't helped him control it." "In other words I have been a failure." "To that extent, yes. Yet, you have loved the very quality in him that shows itself in temper. You are slow to make decisions, but once having decided you do not change. Your job now is to pick up the pieces of the home that the two of you have wrecked." 408 "Suppose I don't want to pick ' them up." For a moment hope flared. "When you know certainly, come back. The decision rests with you. When you have decided, you will know what to do about Carson. Come." HE stood up. 'Taking her hand, he led her back through the gate, through the cottonwoods to where they could see the ranch. He pointed to the light that shone from a window. "Turner is there. Go to him—but remember it will not be easy." He was gone, back the way they had come, but only to the shadow of the trees. There he stopped and watched. Bewildered, frightened, Carolyn walked slowly toward the house. She could not go to Turner.. She couldn't! She was nearly home when she turned and suddenly started back. Before long her feet lagged uncertainly. What should she do? She went on until she reached the grove. Kane was gone from her life—if he had ever had any part in it. Or was he? That was what she must decide. Did she want to go back to Turner? On the fallen log she waited for peace to come. But Peace was coy; she wanted to be wooed. The leaves were going now, and more of the sky showed through. From where she sat she could see many stars that out in the open would be hidden by the light of the moon. "What must I do?" she mourned. "What do I want to do? Turner has failed me. Kane has failed me." Turner had been proud of her last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 194C night. So that was what it took— a few clothes, a little popularity. Were all men that way? To ease her tired muscles she lay back upon the log and looked up. The grandeur of the night awed her. How could so many, many heavenly bodies pattern celestial windows without bringing chaos and destruction? She had heard it was because they obeyed law. Only when one ran counter to law did it fall into oblivion. She had heard someone say all things went that way. Something tugged at her consciousness, and she stirred restlessly. Once as a child she had gone with her father to the hills for wood. They had slept under the stars. She vividly recalled the night and the questions she had asked him. "Which star is Heaven? How do we get there when we die? Did we come from the same star we shall go back to? If we were in Heaven before we were born, why didn't we stay there?" All these things she remembered asking, but she remembered only one answer: "We came into this existence to progress. All the heaven we need worry about is the one we create here and now, for ourselves." A great heaven she had created! She had—she had created. She sat up suddenly; then more suddenly, thoughts and feelings that before had been refused life rushed through her. Harmony in the universe came in obedience to law. Gradually out of a multitude of thoughts and memories some returned again and again: Turner trying to get her to read, Turner urging her to go with him, her vague and shifting interest when he tried to discuss his affairs with her, her con CATHEDRAL OF PEACE stantly increasing absorption in details of housekeeping, her "I don't know" or "I haven't noticed" when Turner called her attention to things of current interest, less and less conversation, more and more hurts, less thinking through and less effort to adjust, more coming here. "Why," she cried in self-revelation, "I have been coming here not for peace but to escape reality. While I have been hiding here, Turner has been going on." HE spot, secluded and quiet, was a symbol of what had been going on in her mind. Here, within a few hundred yards of a state highway, she had been completely alone, completely isolated. In the midst of life she had walked unseeing. In the midst of battle she had refused the good fight. With her mind entirely on herself she had not for many years given a passing thought to Turner's ambitions. The doors of her inner Cathedral were at last thrown open, and she could see only a void within. With no clearly conceived plan, with only the feeling that somehow she must do differently, she rose and left behind her Cathedral of Peace. As she crossed the bridge and saw the light still shining from the window, fear clutched at her. Turner hadn't changed. He was still a stranger. Could she with her new clothes get his attention? It was one thing to make a decision back in the grove; it was quite another to put that decision into action. With great effort she squared her shoulders. Opening the door, she went m. Turner was still in a chair, sitting 409 just as he had been. The children were in bed. "Tumer." He did not answer. With leaden steps she went to stand beside him.. "Turner." He raised his eyes that were dull with pain. They sharpened. "Go away," he said thickly. "But, Turner. I'm sorry—I—" "Go away. I don't want you around." Slowly she turned and went to her own room. As she hesitated at the door, he said, his voice hoarse with grief, "Two more steers disappeared last night while we were away." Not until she stood by the unblinded window of her bedroom did the implication of his words reach her. Had he meant Carson had had something to do with their disappearance? "Oh, Turner, how could you?" She stared unseeing into the night. She had failed with her first attempt, but she must try again. Perhaps clothes weren't going to be so important after all. She had been attractive last night, but Turner was as far from her as ever. Perhaps this—this reformation must come from within. Clothes do not change the inner woman. Maybe, just maybe, she could change her. She would need help, oh, so much help, and all the courage there was; but she knew now that she wanted to go all the way. She grew restless as the light continued to burn. She undressed and went to bed, but still no sound from the other room. Once she got up and started for the door. She would try again; but with her hand on the knob, she turned back. (To be continued ) COMBINED CHORUSES OF SINGING MOTHERS FROM KOLOB, PROVO, SHARON, AND UTAH STAKES Relief Society General Conference, Salt Lake Tabernacle, April 4, 1940 (Relief Society Membership Arch in' background ) WYlotes. FROM THE FIELD By Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses, Stake and mission Relief Societies are invited to submit for this department or the Magazine reports of their specific plans for participation in the Church beautification program, and of their accomplishments in this respect. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.. Singing Mlothers at the Relief Society General Conference EATURED at the two general sessions of the Relief Society conference, April 4, 1940, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, were the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from four nearby stakes—Kolob, Provo, Sharon, and Utah—composed of 261 singers. They were directed in turn by their respective stake Relief Society choristers, Zina C. Condie, Mae B. Young, Melba P. Pyne, and Edna P. Taylor, and accompanied by Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist. Their beautiful rendition of five selections, Holy Redeemer by Marchetti, The Lovely Flowers and My Redeemer Lives, both by B. Cecil Gates, O Morn of Beauty by Sibelius, and How Lovely Are the Messengers by Mendelssohn, was an outstanding part of the April conference. These singers, their capable directors, their respective stake Relief Society presidents, Hannah M. Clyde, Inez B. Allred, Eva G. Gillespie, and Edith Y. Booth, and other officers and members who assisted in arrangements for this appearance are highly commended for their wholehearted response to the General Board's invitation, and for their achievement despite the relatively short intervening time available. To them in which to prepare for such an undertaking. Singing Mothers in the Stakes and Missions HE following reports and accompanying pictures recently received at the office of the General Board from stake and mission Relief Societies in various parts of the world give some indication of the widespread interest in local Relief Society choruses of Singing Mothers, and of their activities. Ranging in size from small ward choruses to large groups representing stakes and missions, they are singing at their regular Relief Society meetings, ward Sacrament meetings, ward, stake, and mission Relief Society conferences, special concerts, radio broadcasts, and general community musicales and celebrations. Several groups are represented here only by pictures or by narrative reports; others have submitted both pictures and interesting accounts of their activities. Among the pictures is an enthusiastic group representing a mission branch in Norfolk, Virginia, where a Relief Society was organized only SINGING MOTHERS OF MARICOPA STAKE (MESA, ARIZONA) a year ago. The states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada and Utah are also represented among the pictures and reports, as well as Colonia Juarez in Mexico, and faraway Hawaii and New Zealand. Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City) THE Bonneville Stake Singing Mothers, a chorus of about 75 women, directed by Olive N. Rich, sang on the regular Church radio program, over KSL, Sunday evening, March 17, 1940. On this occasion, the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, Elder Bryant S. Hinckley delivered a fine tribute to the Relief Society, and a review of its history, purpose and scope. This address was published in the Deseret News, Church Section, March 23, 1940. New Zealand Mission LVA T. COWLEY, supervisor of women's auxiliary organizations in the New Zealand Mission, wrote that the Singing Mothers in this mission were featured at the Hui Tau (conference) held March 22-25, 1940. Held at Nuhaka, about 400 miles from Auckland, the mission headquarters, Mrs. Cowley stated that the representation from various parts of the mission was good even though gasoline is very expensive and its sale ls ordinarily restricted to allotments sufficient for local travel only. At this gathering, Relief Society quilts and other handwork were on display, the meetings for Relief Society officers were reported to be splendid, and the success of the Relief Society pageant and the Singing Mothers was outstanding. Both European and Maori members of the Church participated in the plans and arrangements for the Hui Tau and in the conduct of the varied program of meetings, musicales, and _recreational functions. Pare Takana is president of the Relief Society in this mission. Benson Stake (Richmond, Utah) OMMEMORATING the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, a chorus of sixty Singing Mothers presented the B. Cecil Gates cantata, Resurrection Morning, on the evening of March 17, 1940. The chorus was assisted in the beautiful rendition of this cantata by a guest orchestra. On this occasion, the membership arch of each ward was on display, and the symbolism of each was explained. "They were all lovely and expressed a great deal of individuality and thought," wrote Myrtle S. Pond, stake Relief Society secretary, who submitted this report. Lulu E. Johnson is president of the Relief Society in this stake. Parowan Stake (Parowan, Utah) ELIEF Society stake president, Barbara M. Adams, submitted the accompanying picture of Relief Society singers of the Enoch Ward of this stake, and their accompanist. These singers represent three generations of the same family, and they all live in the Enoch Ward. Lillian A. Esplin is president of the Relief Society in this ward. THREE GENERATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS IN ENOCH WARD Left to right: Grace J. Smith, accompanist; Maude L. Matheson, grandmother, alto; Alice Stevens, granddaughter, second soprano; Violet M. Stevens, daughter, first soprano. The Cedar City First Ward held a special musical program and luncheon on October 31, 1939, which was arranged for by the ward officers and the Singing Mothers. Each member of the Society who served as a hostess sold tickets to three friends, and provided the table, setting, and luncheon for her group. Belle Armstrong, secretary of the ward Relief Society, wrote that this function, held on an unprogrammed fifth Tuesday in the month, was very successful, "bringing joy and happiness to those whose souls are hungry for a friendly handshake and a little social contact outside their homes," and also providing funds with which the Society purchased its supply of the new Relief Society Song Book. In fact, many members unable to participate otherwise, sent contributions for this fund. Mary Jane Bulloch is president of the Cedar City First Ward Relief Society. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyoming) A CONCERT, well attended and enthusiastically received, - was presented in December, 1939, by the stake Relief Society chorus, comprised of forty Singing Mothers. The concert was under the direction of the stake Relief Society chorister, Lettie D. Campbell; Chester Hill conducted the singers. This report came from the stake Relief Society secretary, Lucille Call; Arvilla Hyer is Relief Society president of this stake. Montpelier Stake (Montpelier, Idaho) "THE picture on the next page shows the Relief Society chorus of Montpelier Stake as they appeared at a Relief Society convention, December 3, 1939. This chorus is composed of seventy-five Singing Mothers. The director, Angie C. Amold, SINGING MOTHERS OF SAN LUIS STAKE (MANASSA, COLORADO) . Ar GME! SINGING MOTHERS OF MONTPELIER STAKE is at the extreme left in the picture. As an expression of love and appreciation for her, the chorus surprised her with a Christmas party on December 20, where she was presented with a beautiful, fitted traveling case. Romina Perkins is Relief Society president of this stake. Hawaiian Mission ROSCOE C. COX, president of the Hawaiian Mission, submitted the accompanying picture of Singing Mothers of the Oahu Stake and Hawaiian Mission, and an interesting narrative report of their recent conference, March 16-19, 1940, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Living up to the well-earned reputation of the organization, the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission and the Oahu Stake played a major part in the recent joint conference of the stake and the Japanese and Hawaiian Missions. General Authorities of the Church who attended the conference were Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of the Twelve and Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards. Sister Callis accompanied her husband. "The opening function of the conference was a song contest, bazaar, and dance held the evening of March 15, 1940, under auspices of the Relief Societies of the Oahu stake and Hawaiian Mission. Singing Mothers from seven wards of the stake and from three outlying islands of the mission participated in this contest. Kalihi and Kakaako wards won first and second place, respectively, for the stake, while the Keaukaha branch of the Hilo district, Island of Hawaii, won first place for the mission. More than 1,000 individuals attended this entertainment. "The Relief Society session of the conference was held Saturday forenoon, March 16, and was attended by 411 persons. Singing by a large group of Singing Mothers from the stake and mission was a special feature at this meeting. The chorus was conducted by Lilly Cummings Deering with Inez Waldron and Violet Awai as accompanists. Eliza N. Salm, president of Oahu Stake Relief Society, conducted the meeting and gave the address of welcome. Atmada B. Cox, president of-the Hawaiian Mission Relief Society, introduced the theme, "Mother, Home and Child." Talks on the three phases of this theme were given by Piilani K. Needham of Hawaii, Lizzie Aipoalani of Kauai and Mary Tyau of Honolulu. Both Elder Cal- ight: NGING MOTHERS OF -NORDLK, VIRGINIA, EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION Left: SINGING MOTHERS OF JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO) a Upper Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF BEAR LAKE STAKE (PARIS, IDAHO) Lower Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF PALMYRA STAKE (SPANISH FORK, UTAH) NOTES FROM THE FIELD 415 SINGING MOTHERS IN HAWAII AND CHURCH OFFICIALS AND RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right—Lydia Fernandez; Lydia Cummings, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; President and Mrs. Hilton A. Robertson, Japanese Mission; President Roscoe C. Cox, Hawaiian Mission; Armada B. Cox, president Hawaiian Mission Relief Society; Nohea Kopa, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eliza N. Salm, president, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards, Grace Callis; Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of Twelve, Romania Hyde Woolley; Annie Ha'o, secretary, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eva Parker and Annie Mahelona, members of Relief Society stake board. At the extreme right of the second row is Lilia Wahapaa Kaneihalau of Waimea. Kauai, reputed to be cither 103 or 107 years old, a faithful member and leader in church work since young womanhood, who is still active physically and mentally. Just behind her, left to right, are Lillie Cummings Deering, director; Inez Waldron, pianist; and Violet Awai, organist for the Singing Mothers, this session, and Sister Callis also spoke. "A special roll call was made of the mothers present who had had six or more children. As indicated by the following table, fifty-three mothers responded, and the number of chil- -dren per mother was reported as ranging from six to twenty-three. No. Of Mothers _—_—No. Of Children 6 HBP e Bw NW NR ANU ANwWV ry vv reported that his mother had given birth to twenty-seven children." Nevada Stake HOPE BROADBENT, counselor to Anna M. Aljets, Relief Society president of Nevada Stake, wrote the account of the first public concert of the Singing Mothers of this stake, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "On the evening of December 3, 1939, the Singing Mothers of Nevada Stake gave their first public concert in the Stake House in Ely, Nevada, under the direction of their conductor, Alta Yates. This chorus is composed of forty Relief Society women. "The program consisted of wellselected choral numbers, two beautiful vocal solos, a double quartet, and an a capella trio. Oh, Sleep, My Baby, sung by the trio, was comlis and Bishop Richards addressed "One man, Moses Ekau of Kauai, NOTES FROM THE FIELD posed by Ruby Stoker, director of the Singing Mothers of Rexburg Stake, Idaho, who is the mother of Alta Yates, director of the Nevada Stake chorus. In harmony with the spirit of the music, Ramona Wilson read Edwin Markham's How the Great Guest Came. "The concert was exceptionally 417 mas musicale, sponsored by a local club." California Mission ELLE L. MACDONALD, Relief Society president of the California Mission, wrote recently of the recital by the Singing Mothers at Monterey. Because of this successful appearance, they were invited to SINGING MOTHERS OF NEVADA STAKE well attended and so well received that the Nevada Stake Singing Mothers were extended an invitation to participate in a community Christpresent a concert in San Jose. Proceeds from these concerts were reserved for purchasing a supply of the new Relief Society Song Book. _ = SONG By Lydia Hall Happy is he Who lingers where The scent of roses Freight the air; Whose heaven lies Where each small breeze Is intimate With woodland trees; Who worships beauty Where the glow Of sunset stains New fallen snow; Who has not grown Too old and wise To see with heart As well as eyes. MUSIC DEPARTMENT Spiritual Uplift of Music Luella N. Adams PIRITUALITY is the most viS tal need of the world today. When the spirit of the Master touches the hearts of men, man's inhumanity to man vanishes. Music is one of the foundation stones of spirituality. As a gift from God, it means so much in our lives. It is an important part of all our religious life. All through the ages the emissaries of righteousness have made their divine message more effective through the use of music. Martin Luther said, "Besides theology, music is the only art capable of affording peace and joy to the heart like that induced by the science of divinity. The proof of this is that the Devil, the originator of sorrowful anxieties and_ restless troubles, flees before the sound of music almost as much as he does before the Word of God. This is why the prophets preferred music before all the other arts, proclaiming the Word in psalms and hymns." When listening to beautiful music, beautifully rendered, our hearts are tuned to the infinite. Truly, in such an atmosphere petty thoughts are banished from our minds, and we are touched with the spirit of our Creator. Our people have always been music loving and have endeavored to foster and encourage good music. The Lord has said: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me." Some of the greatest sermons and messages of the Church have come through song. It seems that sacred song has been a part of every religious movement. Come, Come Ye Saints, sung at night around the camp-fire, gave our pioneers courage and determination to press on. At the time of the greatest tragedy in the history of the Mormon Church, a hymn was sung. In that last hour in Carthage Jail, Brother Taylor, as. A comfort to the Prophet and Hyrum, sang A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief. At this fateful moment, it was the sustaining influence of a song that brought solace and peace to these martyrs. What a tribute to a hymn. When in danger, Martin Luther would sing, "God is our refuge and strength, an ever present help in trouble." A serious obligation rests on choristers and organists of the Relief Society. Not only is it their duty to conduct, but it is also their obligation to stimulate a love for singing. It is one of the ennobling activities in which all are able to participate. In our meetings much precious time is given to singing, and rich spiritual uplift should be the reward. Oto Shoten THE music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more. Wordsworth, Memorials of a Tour in Scotland. LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 Sheology and Sestimony Department The Restored Gospel Dispensation NE of Relief Society's original assignments, given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was to study and teach the Gospel. President Joseph F. Smith restated it at a general conference of the Church, held in April, 1906, when, in reference to the Relief Society, he said: "It has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too— is to look after the spiritual welfare and salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness and the evils that threaten them in the world." Reference is made to this quotation that we may know and feel that there is an obligation upon the Relief Society to look after the spirituality of all the women in the Church. The First Tuesday in each month (Theology-and-Testimony Day) has been specifically designated to assist in accomplishing this. The General Board hopes that this class period will definitely enrich the spirituality, the faith and the testimonies of our sisters, to the end that it may bring joy and peace and hope and satisfaction into their lives. The lessons for the year of 1940-41 are titled The Restored Gospel Dispensation and follow as a logical sequence the lessons on The Ministry of the Savior and The Ministry of the Early Apostles. The first of the eight lessons for the new season's work covers the many years of the apostasy and the reformation and is, of necessity, a very brief treatment of this subject. This acts, however, as a bridge from the first century of the Christian era to this present dispensation. Following are the lesson titles: 1. Apostasy and Reformation (The Days of Darkness and Preparation) 2. The Heavens Open (Restoration and Prophet Smith) 3. A Practical Religion (President Brigham Young) 4. The Power of Loyalty (President John Taylor) 5. Faith (President Wilford Woodruff) 6. The Lord's Tenth (President Lorenzo Snow) 7. Family Life, An Eternal Unit (President Joseph F. Smith) 8. Obedience (President Heber J. Grant) Joseph Ce" C7 SS 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 Visiting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home PRIESTHOOD is the foundation of the Church and holds the keys and powers of salvation in the kingdom of God. The importance of Priesthood work has always been recognized by the leaders of our Church. "Priesthood was restored for the welfare and blessing of mankind. Its law is the law of love. It is sacred and should be regarded so by women" (Gospel Doctrine, p. 178). Considering Priesthood activities of paramount importance, the visiting teacher messages this coming year will be: How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home. We hope that the consideration of these lessons will help every woman to realize what a valuable contribution the Priesthood makes to the home, and that as women of the Church we have a great responsibility in giving encouragement to husbands and sons to hold and honor the Priesthood. The Priesthood is a strength to a boy or man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords, through quorum activities, opportunity for training in leadership and spiritual development. President Joseph F. Smith said, "I am tenacious that all should learn the right and power of the Priesthood, and recognize it; and if they do it, they will not go far astray." It is important in home planning that the physical aspects be arranged so that the spiritual duties may be performed. The spirit of the home is the essential and lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical is forgotten. The spiritual preparation of the home for honoring the Priesthood depends largely upon the attitudes which are cultivated there and which are unconsciously absorbed by the children. It is the spirit which leads us to the performance of our duties. We are truly our brother's keeper. A mother who influences her own boy in Priesthood work indirectly helps some other boy. Home Discussion Helps will be given at the end of each lesson to assist, the visiting teacher to leave one paramount thought in the home. It is also contemplated that further help will be given in stake and ward class work to assist visiting teachers to ably approach and present the lesson in the various homes. The visiting teachers have a great mission to perform in contacting every home throughout the Church every month. If they will go into the homes with a prayerful heart after carefully studying the lesson and receiving suggestions and inspiration from the class leader, good will be accomplished, and every teacher will be blessed for the effort made. The following messages are to be given in the eight months: 1. Definitions of Priesthood 2. Divisions of Priesthood, The Aaronic Priesthood. 3. Divisions of Priesthood, The Melchizedek Priesthood LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 4. The Democracy of the Priesthood 5. Physical Preparation of the Home 6. Spiritual Preparation of the Home 421 7. The Law of Tithing and the Home 8. Home Training for a Mission ae ~_ Be eid Ousiness Department NUTRITION Food Makes FOR the coming year, 1940-41, the General Board has decided to publish in the Relief Society Magazine material which will provide the basis for eight brief discussions to be conducted, if so desired, on Work-and-Business Day, along with the handwork. This will be the means of offering a more permanent record of the material as well as making it available to a larger group of women. To supplement and make practical each discussion, menus and recipes will also be given which may be used for demonstration or exhibition purposes. "The five-point child" is a phrase which Dr. Mary Swartz Rose, nutritionist at Columbia University, uses in discussing child nutrition. The five points on which Dr. Rose places special emphasis are: hair, eyes, teeth, skin and posture, which are sign-posts revealing the good or poor health of the adult as well as of the growing child. If any individual is fed what it takes to build and maintain health in these five particulars, other body tissues will also be well and kept in good functioning order. The program outlined for discussion on Work-and-Business Day is A Difference titled Food Makes A Difference and includes the following subjects: Hair and Nails Eyes Teeth and Bones Skin Posture Dietary Reinforcements Food for the Older Woman' Healthful and Helpful Party Menus Gos Bos Wo bd To be able to read the signs of good health and to know how to keep in a healthful condition is a grave responsibility, and these lessons will help us. But diet alone will not accomplish all. A good diet must be reinforced with sufficient test, sleep, exercise and wholesome environmental conditions so that the body will be in fit condition to utilize the food consumed for growth and repair. A carefully selected diet is essential to keep the older woman or man in a good state of health. Energy demands are lessened, but repair of tissues must still be continued. A diet that is high in what nutritionists call "protective foods" is important for older people. Doctors who work especially with diseases of the older age groups maintain that many 422 of the old-age diseases would be prevented if adults would eat more wisely. Much of their treatment for these diseases is dietary. Party refreshments have always been a part of social entertainment. Plan your party refreshments so that your guests are really refreshed after RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 eating. Much of the food served at parties is depressing rather than refreshing. Since such food is usually just an extra meal, late at night, it needs wise planning to keep it low in calories and attractive in appearance and flavor. > of iterature Department THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL The Modern Novel HE year 1940-41 will be our third and closing year for the study of the Advance of the Novel. The final course will be The Modern Novel, which includes novels written since 1850. Three significant novels have been chosen. Adam Bede, one of the great English classics, by Mary Ann Evans (known to fame as George Eliot) will open the year. This will be followed with The Tree of Liberty by Elizabeth Page, a very recent novel, the import of which is particularly timely. We find here "the largeness of vision, the tolerance and the strength of great patriotism." It is a vital story of democracy, of the growth of liberty surging through fifty of the most significant years of our history and therefore "stupendous in its purpose," and a significant contribution to the literature of our time. Another recent novel in lighter vein, The Song of Years by Bess Streeter Aldrich, an intimate story of pioneer Iowa, will close the year. If you have been stimulated to select more carefully from the vast store of the world's great novels, if the values of this type of literature have been interpreted more clearly, then we feel that the three years have been worthwhile. Eight lessons will be presented in the Relief Society Magazine on the three selected novels: three on Adam Bede, three on The Tree of Liberty and two on The Song of Years. If, in certain stakes, some stake leaders desire to use only two books—to do more intensive work on the second book, The Tree of Liberty—suggestions can be found at the close of lessons five and six. (The Tree of Liberty is being filmed at the present time and promises to receive unusual attention during the coming months.) Wherever a stake decides to extend the study on The Tree of Liberty, all wards in that stake should uniformly follow the modified plan. Note: Missions may take lessons in Latter-day Saint Church History in lieu of Literature if they so desire. LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 423 Books For Literature Course, 1940-4 1. Adam Bede by George Eliot The literature committee has reviewed carefully the editions available in Adam Bede and recommends that one of the two following editions be chosen. The print in each book is relatively the same. (a) Adam Bede, Grosset & Dunlap, publishers, contains 507 pages. Price 80 cents. (b) The Best Known Novels of George Eliot, Modern Library, Inc., publishers, is one book of 1350 pages and contains the four novels of George Eliot; namely, Adam Bede, Silas Marner, The Mill on the Floss, Romola. Price $1.13. The price on both the above books is — Social Service a special price made to the Reiief Society. 2. The Tree of Liberty by Elizabeth Page. Present price $3.00. The bookstore is not allowed to sell this book at a cheaper price at this time. It is expected, however, in the early fall when the motion picture of this book is released that the book will be available at a cheaper price; this information, as soonas it is obtained, will be included in "Notes to the Field" in the Relief Society Magazine. 3. The Song of Years by Bess Streeter Aldrich. Special price to the Relief Society $2.00. The books are now available. Send all orders to: Deseret Book Company, Box 958, Salt Lake City, Utah. - Department EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Family Relationships FTER considering the reports of various General Board members who have attended stake conferences of the Relief Society in all the stakes of the Church and after making a survey of a number of nearby stakes, it was decided at a very recent meeting of the General Board to combine the Social Service course and the course on Education for Family Life into a single department for next year. This is a logical arrangement, since the lessons for each of these two classes the past two years have. Both been in the field of sociology. It has been decided to retain the name of Social Service as the general title for this department. This title has been well established and is broad enough in scope to cover any subject matter in the field of sociology or social welfare that the General Board might plan for in the future. The particular subject which we shall study in this department for the coming year, 1940-41, will be Family Relationships, and the titles of the lessons will be contained in a future copy of the Relief Society Magazine. The General Board is deeply appreciative of the splendid work which has been accomplished in both these classes during the past 424 two years, but in line with a policy of simplification have acted as they deemed best for all concerned. We thank the Relief Societies for conducting and carrying forward the two classes. We feel that in the former course on Education for Family Life gains were made for the Society as a whole, as some women had their first introduction to the Society through this class; and the discussion method, where it was well carried forward, was stimulating and profitable to the group. We suggest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE, 1940 that special effort be made to retain the interest and the membership of these new classes which have been organized, and to secure the attendance of both groups in the one department. May we urge that ward presidents cooperate to the fullest in amalgamating these two groups and that the class leader who is chosen make an effort to weld the groups together. We also recommend that the discussion method of teaching be used in conducting this class. Nission Lessons LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (Missions may take lessons in Latter-day Saint Church History in lieu of Literature, if they so desire.) HE Mission lessons for the year 1940-41 will conclude the study of Church history. They will portray the hardships, troubles, and persecutions of the Saints from the _ time they are driven out of Jackson County, Missouri, until they finally find a refuge in the mountains, in fulfillment of the prophecy of Isaiah: "And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it" (Isaiah 2:2). The subject matter is divided as follows: 1. Seeking 4 New Home On being expelled from Missouri, the Saints find a home in Illinois.. Happenings in Nauvoo Nauvoo the Beautiful becomes the largest city in Illinois, and the Saints enjoy comparative peace. N 3. Martyrdom of Joseph Smith Feelings again become bitter against the Saints, which result in the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his brother, Hyrum. They thus seal their testimony with their blood. 4. Who Shall Take the -Prophet's Place? The people of Nauvoo remain steadfast and look to their remaining leaders for guidance. 5. The Twelve Apostles Lead the Church Under the direction of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, with Brigham Young as the president of the Quorum, the Saints prepare for a migration westward. 6. The Saints Find a New Home in the West After months of weary travel across the plains, the valley of the Great Salt Lake is reached, and Brigham Young announces, "This is the place." 7. The New Home in the Mountains. Starvation faces the pioneers with the advent of the crickets, but in answer LESSON PREVIEW—1940-41 to prayer the sea-gulls come and save the crops. 8. The Building of a Commonwealth Under the wise leadership of Brigham Young, the second president of the Church, the desert begins to "blossom as the rose." It is our earnest desire that we may be strengthened and be better able to live our lives today after the study of these lessons, which reveal the faith and fortitude evinced by the early Saints and pioneers under their tribulations. Brigham Young said, "This is a world in which we are to prove ourselves. The lifetime of man is a day 425 of trial, wherein we may prove to God, in our darkness, in our weakness, and where the enemy reigns, that we are our Father's friends, and that we receive light from Him...." (Brigham Young's Discourses, Pp. 133.) The Christian law, declared by the Master nearly two thousand years ago, still remains: "But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven" (Matthew 5:44, 45). Ee A Problem of Unity (Continued from page 389) "I do so want us to be one of the strongest, happiest families in all the world." "We are that already, Nan," Fred said softly, "except when there are tears in your eyes." Afterward, Nan could laugh about their poor misguided picnic with all its misadventures, but with reverent joy, too great to share by word of hers, she remembered the feeling of unity that surrounded their little group as they knelt in shared communion at the close of that day, while Jerry said in his baby tongue: "Help us, Jesus, to be Mummy's happy fambly." ——%—___ FRIEND I find so many who delight in talk As poets oft have said, "Of books and things, Of sealing wax and cabbages and kings." But when I think of you, the path we walk, The depths we fathom to our own content, The myriad thoughts that, restless, come and go, The secrets that the stars alone will know, The dreams we share, the hopes and longings spent, I grieve for him who knows not such a friend, Who never shared his heart in twilight's fall, Who never looked with dread upon the end Of each brief visit, never felt the call That love and confidence and trust extend. He has not talked, nor thought, nor lived at all. —Mabel Jones RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints SELECTED DATA from the ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT Calendar year, 1939 Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board Vera White PohIman, General Secretary-Treasurer DISBURSEMENTS Wards and Stakes and General Disbursements Branches Missions Board Total Cash Disbursements Charitable Purposes $ 75,111.02 $ 9,302.36 $ 12,831.06 $ 97,244.44 All Other Purposes 132,260.35 40,492.78 104,406.13 277,159.26 Wheat Trust Fund 129.62* 129.62 Total Cash $207,500.99 $49,795.14 $117,237.19 $374,533.32 Merchandise, Value of Merchandise Distributed for Charitable purposes $ 19,933.58 $ 19,933.58 Total Disbursements $227,434.57 $49,795.14 $117,237.19 $394,466.90 *Remitted to Presiding Bishop's Office MEMBERSHIP Membership January 1, 1939 80,240 Increase—Admitted to Membership During Year.................-......------13,990 Decrease 8,088 Removed or Resigned 7,096 Died 992 Net Increase During Year 5,902 Membership D ber 31, 1939 86,142 Distribution of Membership According to Assignment January December 1, 1939 31, 1939 Membership 80,240 86,142 General Officers and Board Members.. 22 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,578 Mission Presidents and Officers.... 112 Ward and Branch Executive and Special Officers... _18, 392 19,780 Visiting Teachers 26,081 27,082 All Other Members 34,142 37,568 ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Members, December 31, 1939 427 Location Stakes Missions Total United States 69,468 7,989 TI457 Alabama 77 77 Alaska 12 12 Arizona 3,113 459 3,572 Arkansas 40 4 California 4,333 889 6,222 Colorado 504 384 888 Connecticut 12 12 District of Columbia val 71 Florida 326 326 Georgia 140 140 Hawaii 398 535 933 Idaho 18,555 110 13,665 Illinois 156 87 243 Indiana 177 177 Iowa 97 97 Kansas 78 78 Kentucky 39 39 Louisiana 100 100 Maine vi q Maryland 114 114 Massachusetts 38 38 Michigan 135 135 Minnesota 172 172 Mississippi 126 126 Missouri 277 277 Montana 10 768 778 Nebraska 122 122 Nevada 1,029 163 1,192 New Mexico 221 118 $39 New York. 239 128 367 North Carolina 185 185 Ohio 93 93 Oklahoma 78 78 Oregon 776 203 979 Pennsylvania 137 137 Rhode Island (recently organized; no report) South Carolina 242 242 South Dakota 41 41 Tennessee 36 36 Texas 72 433 505 Utah 42,584 42,584 Virginia 152 152 Washington 357 272 629 West Virginia 43 43 Wisconsin 82 58 140 Wyoming 2,039 215 2,254 Other Countries 1,748 6,937 8,685 Argentina 05 105 Australia 98 198 Austria 47 47 Brazil 80 80 Canada 1,584 194 1,778 Czechoslovakia 51 51 Denmark 241 241 France 120 120 Germany 2.230 2.230 Great Britain 594 594 Mexico 164 320 484 Netherlands 267 267 New Zealand 551 561 Norway 360 360 Palestine 27 27 Samoa 425 425 South Africa 109 109 Sweden 275 276 Switzerland 271 271 Tahiti 254 254 Tonga 218 218 Total Membership 71,216 14,926 86,142 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1939 1938 1919 2 2 Change 1938 to 19391 a Change 1919 to 19391 Number or | Number or | "Wumber or Per Number or |"Wumber or Per Amount Amount Amount Cent Amount Amount Cent Organizations Districts 163 159 a ie so 83 | +108 Stakes 128 124 Missions 35 35 11 Wards in Stakes 1,182 1,165 Local Organizations 2,077 2,002 at + 1,109 +968 +87 Branches in Missions 895 837 Members. 86,142 80,240 +5,802 +7 45,413 +40,729 +90 General Officers and Board Members 22 24 —2 —8 23 —1 —4 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,578 1,493 +85 5 1,056 +522 +50 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 112 108 +4 Waetagnd Branch Executive and Special 19,780 18,392 +1,388 Visiting Teachers 27,082 26,081 1,001 +4 14,126 12,956 92 All Other Members 37,568 34,142 3,426 +10 23,538 14,030 60 Activities: ae ef "Relief Society Magazine' Sub- 47,649 43,252 +4,397 | +10 16,249 +31,400 +193 scriptions Number of Ward and Stake Executive Officers and Board Members Subscribing for "Relief Society Magazine" 8,590 8,603 —13 —.15 Number of Meetings Held in Wards 71,337 67,996 8,341 z 3, 38,061 114 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 39,653 36,526 3,127: sais 138983 198 Number of Ward Conferences Held 1,677 1,554 +123 Number of Stake Meetings Held 2,466 2,433 +33 +1 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' 1,357 1,250 +107 +9 (Union) Meetings Held Now of Visits to Wards by Stake &,120 7,987 +133 +2 - 5,614 +2,506 445 icers Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 1,128,724 1,055,618 Number of Families Helped 17,160 16,507 Number of Days Spent With the Sick 34,123 32,978 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and 213,744 208,061 Homebound Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial 1,861 1,478 ¢ 128,912 +999,812 776 4 5,152 +12,008 233 3 44,023 —9,900 —-22 3 86,487 127,257 +145 —8s 2,551 —1,190 —47 Charitable Purposes 97,244.44 102,398.02 —5,153.58 —5 69,864.41 +27,380.03 All Other Purposes 277,288.88 288,915.26 —11,626.38 —4 145,660.90 -+131,627.98 increases designated by +; decreases by —. 2Data for 1919 is presented in support of trends over the 20-year period 1919 to 1939, as presented in the annual report by the General aaa eeures at the general Relief Society conference, April 3, 1940, and published in the 'Relief Society Magazine," May,, page 4 Cash Disbursements $374,583.32 | $391,313.28 | —$16,779.06 —4 5215,525.31 +$159,008.01 +f cers, LIFE'S TESTS are the hours that call for sympathy and tender i. LARKIN MORTUARY LARKIN & SONS 260 East South Temple Salt Lake City 466 24th Street, Ogden Was. 5132—Hy. 180 Telephone 821 LARKIN MORTUARY CO. 6003 Compton Avenue Los Angeles, California Jefferson 1244 BOOKS for RELIEF SOCIETY Literary Course — 1940-41 ADAM BEDE By George Eliot THE TREE OF LIBERTY A choice is offered of this book in two By Elizabeth Page editions (a) Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, i Regular Price aaaGa cssenemeovtneo ce$1.00 ttle OU i nae aed Society Price..80 The Book Store is not allowed to he Best Known Novels of i i eS INEF includes four novels this time. °: eorge iot in one boo Adam Bede. Silas Mamer, The THE SONG OF YEARS Mill on the Floss, Romola. By Bess Streeter Aldrich This is the recommended book.; Regular Price... Csccssesecccesseeseonesee $1.25 Regular Price $2.50 We also have copies of Literary Course Books of previous years, for those who wish to complete their libraries. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine GacrsekEloimhisderialica Special Relief Society Price $1.13 44 East South Temple sell this book at a cheaper price at Special Relief Society Price.......$2.00 Salt Lake City, Utah o reputation traditional, 