[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: SISTER RUTH WELTON TYLER | Author: Unknown]

SISTER RUTH WELTON TYLER
	WHO departed this life April 14, 1897,
after an illness of only three days.
	She was the daughter of Asa and Clarissa
Norton Welton; was born in Spafford,
Onondaga Co., New York, February 25,
1820, and was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the 
same place, January 1832, by Elder Jared
Carter. She was the first of her family to
embrace the Gospel. She moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio with her parents in 1834 or
1835. She was married to her life-long 
companion, Daniel Tyler, September 11,
1836, and emigrated to Far West, Caldwell
Co., Mo., arriving August 3, 1837; was 
expelled from that place under the extermi-
nating order of Governor Lilburn W.
Boggs, February 13, 1839. She went to
Illinois where her daughter, the late Parin-
tha O. Oakden, was born June 4, of the 
same year. Moved to Nauvoo about 1842
where she became a member of the first Re-
lief Society organized by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet. With her little family she
was expelled from Nauvoo in the spring of 
1846. Afterwards left on the road in an
Indian country while her husband enlisted
in the Mormon Battalion and went to fight
the battles of his country. Another child
was born to her in that place. After the
Battalion was disbanded her husband re-
turned for her, and they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley November 18, 1848. She
was called with her husband to Dixie in
1862, where they suffered all the privations
and sickness from chills and fever incident
to settling that country. They were re-
leased and called to Beaver in the spring
of 1866, where she resided until her death. 
	Brother Tyler has filled various missions
during which Sister Tyler mainly support-
ed her family by her own labor. She
joined the Relief Society when it was first
organized in Beaver. Soon after she be-
came a teacher, subsequently counselor to
two presidents. June 16, 1876, she was
chosen president, which office she held for
several years. Again December 6, 1886, 
she was chosen president and faithfully ful-
filled the duties of that office until she was
released to take the position of President of
the Relief Society of Beaver Stake, March
5, 1897.

[Column 2]
	During her presidency of the Relief Soci-
ety two rock buildings were erected, one a
hall and store, the other a granary capable
of holding about eight thousand bushels of
grain; the latter building costing sixteen
hundred dollars.
	Impressions she received in early life
caused her to be religiously inclined.
When she was only five years old her 
mother was taken very sick. The little
Ruth went by herself and prayed that her
mother might get well. Her prayer was
answered, her mother recovering almost
immediately. At nine years of age she
joined the Methodist church, but would not
receive baptism unless she could be im-
mersed. After considerable discussion she
carried the point, and was baptized by im-
mersion, although it was contrary to the 
general practice in that church at that
time.
	She was the mother of fourteen children,
only three of whom survive her. She was
an active public worker, one who was ready 
and willing to respond to every call; her
whole soul was in the work from the time
she was baptized until the day of her death.
A devoted mother and faithful companion,
a friend to the needy, comforting the sick
and administering to their necessities.
She was faithful in this life and has gone to
receive the reward of the righteous.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Beaver ward Relief Society.
	WHEREAS, It has p eased God to ca l from our
midst our beloved president and co-worker, Sis-
ter Ruth Tyler; therefore be i
	RESOLVED, That we deeply mourn her
loss, and most sincerely sympathize with
her family and friends and ask God to comfort
them.
	RESOLVED, That her death has caused a vacan-
cy we know not how to fill; but we realize that
our loss is her gain, [-]nd that God doeth all things
well, and that [-]e must be resigned to His will.
	RESOLVED, That a copy f this sketch and
resolutions be placed upon our record book, one
given to the bereaved family, and one sent to the 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

Gone from our midst, our sister, friend, departed,
	Deep in our hearts we feel the sad, sad pain;
We’ll ne’er forget her, true and noblehearted,
	But cherish we the hope to meet again.

Gone from our midst, but memory serves to
	lighten
	Grief that is fervent, for her ki dly life–
Emblem of goodness; seemed to ever brighten
	Scenes of affliction, woe, or angry strife.

Gone from our midst, this life will no more greet
	her,
	But in her home in heavenly glory land,
She is rejoicin ’mid the loved who meet her,
	Resting in peace among the angel band.
			JANE BICKLEY, President.
			LOUISSA W. JONES, Secretary.


