[Vol30 | March 1943 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Tomorrows Cup-Chapter Redd]
Tomorrow's Cup
Anna Prince Redd
CHAPTER I
IT was a golden day at El Toro, the first of a delayed spring. Janet stood at the window, her thoughts as far from the day as this Indian trading post home of hers was from civilization. The sun tinted her eyelids and glowed warm against her face. But, though she was nerve-cold, she pushed its small comfort aside and gazed again, rebelliously, into the blue-gold distance. Distance that piled up and up into ships and spires and temples in the Monument Valley; into mountains a hundred miles away, yet vividly near and distinct in the sunlight. Not a living thing in sight. Not a sound to echo against the cliffs.
"Is this all there is for me?" she questioned desperately. "Thisawful emptiness?"
Her hands gripped the stone window ledge and her eyes swam with tears. Why had she ever thought she could be happy in such a place? Even with a husband as dashing and satisfying as Paul it was unendurable. How could a country so vast close in on one so? For three years she had fought it with all her strength, yet it had yielded not an inch. If only she hadn't met Paul and fallen in love with him! It had seemed so unimportant, then, where she would live. She'd reasoned that husbands could be lured away later. Paul was brilliant, educated, and resourceful; he could make his way in any country. It had taken so little to quiet her fears. Now they confronted her with terrifying insistence.
"Why do I fear it so?" she cried, knowing as always that there was no one to hear. Her father loved every foot of it. Every mound, every cliff, every ancient dwelling. They only frightened her. To him they were open books of the past; to her they were walls of a prison. She wished she'd never listened to his glowing tales, then she'd never have come to this country at all. She'd have stayed in Washington, D. C. Where she belonged. She'd have stayed and married a nice respectable congressman, or someone, and not have had a thing to worry about.
SUMMER after summer her father had brought back wonderful tales. Following each archeological expedition he'd say: "Janet, I must take you with me next time," until he'd finally won out. She'd thrown prudence aside, left Washington in "Cherry Tree Time"andand longed for it ever since! She had felt so sure of herself there in Washingtonwith Paul as their guest, the center of attraction, telling his tall tales of grandeur and of the empire he and Janet meant to build upsure of Paul. Once they were married it would be easy to make him see that he belonged in her sphere. And so she had gone to San Juan.
Now, after three years, she was no nearer leaving it than on the day she had entered it.
"Oh, what's the use!" she cried, her thoughts suddenly becoming intolerable. "Paul is gone. Juanee is gone. Only Taos and I remain, to
Page 179
180
wait and wait." The Indian womanfaithful as a shadowwould have been some company. But she had gone, leaving Janet in the blackest mood she'd ever experienced. If there was a single human sound she could stand it. If, even, the dog would wake up and bark. But Taos was asleep in the sun, like everything else, and oblivious to her misery.
"Taos," she spoke his name tentatively. "Taos, wake up."
Taos yawned, stretched, cocked a brown ear and opened one eye, but saw nothing to get excited about.
"See? I may as well be in the Sahara Desert!"
