Mrs. Phillip North Moore By Annie Wells Cannon NOTHER interesting and prominent figure among the leading women of the nation has answered the final call. Mrs. Eva Perry Moore, past president of the National Council of Women and of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, died of a heart attack at her home in St. Louis on the 28th of April, of this year. Mrs. Moore was born at Rockport, Illinois in 1852 and from early girlhood was interested in public affairs, especially those pertaining to the advancement and welfare of women. She graduated from Vassar College in 1873 with an A. B. Degree and later became an alumnz trustee of that institution. In 1879 she was married to Phillip North Moore who became a noted mining engineer and prominent business man of St. Louis. His death occurred early in 1930. The death of Mrs. Moore is of more than passing interest to the readers of the Relief Society Magazine because of her intimate acquaintance with many of the leading women in organization and club work through the medium of the aftiliated councils. Mrs. Moore was president of the National Council of 'Women from 1916 to 1925 and at the time of her death was an honorary president, also vice-president of the International Council. In 1925 the Quinquennial, or International Council of Women was held in Washington, D. C., and the United States Council was hostess on that occasion to the foreign delegates. This gathering was one of the largest ever held by the Council —thirty-eight nations were represented by their most distinguished women. The proceedings were conducted under the direction of Lady Aberdeen but naturally the great responsibility for the success of the occasion rested upon the hostess president, Mrs. Moore, who proved herself quite equal to the arduous and difficult task. To this Council Utah sent a large delegation led by President Clarissa S. Williams of the Relief Society. Mrs. Moore on this occasion, as always, gave the Utah women a gracious and pleasant welcome. Mrs. Moore's public activities covered a large field of endeavor and she held many responsible positions local, state, national and international, traveling extensively in these varied interests. One of her most important and interesting journeys was to Lima, Peru, where she went as a delegate to the International Pan-American Scientific Congress in 1924, A pioneer for the progress and advancement of women she gave years of earnest service, and for this her name will be held in honored memory for generations yet to come.
