


Crusade Against the Use of Tobacco By President Louise Y. Robison THE instinct of mothers to be alarmed when danger menaces their young is universal. Both human and animal mothers' are forever on their guard to protect their young from destructive forces—no sacrifice is too great, even to endangering their own lives. Some evils are limited in their power and individual mothers can cope successfully with them but there are others which demand united effort. Such a destructive influence is with us today and challenges the motherhood of our nation. It is not enough that one mother nor twenty mothers become alarmed—but all people who desire the health, efficiency, and spiritual development of our youth are urged to join forces for their protection. Human judgement may err but we have the word of our Heavenly Father that tobacco is not good for us. The Relief Society believing the Word of Wisdom to be the word of God calls on all its members to cooperate in helping our young people to see the benefit of living strictly in accordance with its teachings. With the approval of the First Presidency, the Auxiliary organizations of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are uniting in a crusade against the use of tobacco. Each has its special assignment. To the Relief Society it is that we will not condemn nor make unhappy those of our young people who have acquired the tobacco habit but with all the power of our love and prayers we will help them to see the benefit of complying with our Father's admonition and of stopping this injurious indulgence. And further, as a safeguard to those who have not formed this habit and to protect and help the weaker ones, that we will not patronize any merchant who sells tobacco, in any form, to minors. Relief Society always has stood for law enforcement. In Utah, as in many other states it is illegal to sell tobacco to minors. We certainly, even at inconvenience to ourselves, cannot support violators of the law especially when such violators are destroying our youth. We especially appeal to all Relief Society women and all other women in our communities to seriously and zealously work for the welfare of our young men and women and to see that the laws that have been enacted to safeguard them are not violated.
