From a Mail Carrier to an Artist By Curt Meng who worked at the "Alpine Summer School during the 1930 term is Professor Joseph F. Russon, who heads the art department of the East High School at Salt Lake City. When asked if he had studied painting his entire life he replied: "T began my study of art when I was married and finished when I had a family of three boys. Even as a small child I took special delight in drawing and, fortunately, my parents encouraged me in my endeavors." Though Mr. Russon showed marked talent for art which won for him the affectionate title of "Professor Russon," it seemed that he would never realize his dream of becoming a professional artist. In the early days of Utah, schoolmasters generally discouraged any boy who had an urge to draw. A teacher came to Lehi who was an excellent penman. The boy resolved that some day he would equal his teacher in penmanship. "And," continued Mr. Russon with a smile, "I not only equaled his work but showed him specimens of my work that surpassed his in quality." The ability to use pen and ink artistically kept alive the glowing ambition of a career in art and also proved of commercial value to the young man. He drafted resolutions, announcements, and posters for business concerns. Ordinarily, the next step would have been to enter some art school but in this case no opportunity presented itself for an ONE of the outstanding artists art education. Of those days Mr. Russon continues: "My efforts in art yielded outstanding results but I never had means to continue my studies. I married and accepted a position as a rural mail carrier. While on the mail route I had opportunity to observe people and to ponder over many things. Here I was carrying mail while my desire was to devote my life to painting. The turning point of my life came when one day my wife suggested that I discontinue my present position and get an education in art. I realized the sacrifice necessary on her part and the children but her faith in me helped me to make a decision. I entered the Brigham Young University and studied for three years with Prof. E. H. Eastmond. Then TY entered the Pratt Institute at Brooklyn, New York, where, after two years of hard study I became the proud owner of a diploma as an artist." When Mr. Russon returned to Utah, he supervised art in Utah county for a period of three years. His rise in his chosen field was now assured. He next taught in the Salt Lake City Schools for two years. Then moved to Murray, where he spent seven years as teacher in the newly organized high school and as a supervisor in the four schools of Murray. After seven years of excellent work in the Murray school system he returned to Salt Lake City where he has been teaching for the last twelve years, at present, being head of the art department of the East High School. FROM A MAIL CARRIER TO AN ARTIST 355 JOSEPH F. RUSSON AT ALPINE SUMMER SCHOOL Joseph F. Russon has been an artist for twenty-two years. He taught three summers at the Brigham Young University, three summer terms at the Utah State Agricultural College, and one at the University of Utah. During this time he has been a student of the Arts League of New York City. Although he has painted for nearly a quarter of a century his enthusiasm for art is still fresh. His pictures, mostly water colors, are always in demand and he markets practically all his paintings. At the Springville National Exhibits and at numerous state fairs the works of this artist have received many first places. Usually artists come from a famly of artists. Mr. Russon's parents and grandparents on both sides of the family were not talented in art. In contrast to this all of the artist's children show considerable talent. His youngest son, Kay, is considered one of the best commercial artists in the state of Utah. While at Alpine the professor averaged more than one painting a day. To the question as to which he considered his best painting and what type of work he preferred to do the artist replied: "I consider my best painting an oil now owned by Mr. J. D. Smith of Salt Lake City. I called this painting, '"A Mountain Stream" and painted it in Weber Canyon. I prefer to do landscape paintings as nature is always fascinating and full of rich color tones."
