Easy Money By LelaiM. Hoggan OTHER was rejuvinating. She was taking morning exercise and baths, and eating spinach, oranges, raw carrots, and what not. By means of a few bright silk scraps and packages of dye, and long hours of painstaking effort, she had replenished her wardrobe. She had acquired a new stock of ideas from the free lectures she was attending. She really thought she was converted to the magic results that would accrue from the optomistic suggestions she was making to herself for health, beauty and success, with especial emphasis on the success. Since she was left a widow, three years previously, she had been struggling 'painfully along, trying to support herself and her two husky boys, in a dignified, self-respecting manner. The receipts from the little odd jobs that she and the boys had been able to secure, did not begin to pay the meagre running expenses of the household, notwithstanding her careful planning. She found that her two hungry, growing juveniles 'needed new clothing, or school accessories, or other incidentals daily. All of which was making a constant drain on Mother's small and fast disappearing bank account. By budgeting her spare moments and her energy she had turned the little ragged edges of time into fair account, as her valid teacher's certificate attested. But School Boards, as well as other parts of the teaching machine, move with deliberation and accuracy. And Mother was becoming painfully aware of the fact that unless some steady, remunerative employment was forth-coming, she would soon reach the point where she would have nothing more substantial to draw on for living expenses than her imagination. She was rapidly reaching a state of despondency almost akin to desperation, when her naive, cheery, little neighbor persuaded Mother to attend a series of wonderful free lectures. The lectures furnished the germ for the new optomistic philosophy of life. Naturally, the rejuvination followed. For the time being, Mother was greatly thrilled with the possibilities held out by the auto-suggestion philosophy. It was such a hopeful, uplifting promise for those who were dragging discouragingly along clinging to the drabbled skirts of misery, on the very edge of failure. Why should she not think herself into a state of happiness and success Not that she was unwilling to pay the cost, for Mother had learned long years ago, that every worth while gift of life must be bought with a price. She was ready and willing to pay that price. But this new philosophy was like a golden key, that only waited to be turned to unlock the treasure-chests of all time. Why should she not turn the key and reach out for the blessing But there was one thing that worried Mother. All her life she had been a prayerful woman. In every emergency she had sought divine guidance and assistance, and had never been betrayed or deserted in her hour of need. This new philosophy seemed somehow, to be at variance with the very spirit of EASY MONEY prayer. Would it make her mind and heart less pliable to divine guidance? Would it stint her faith? She often pondered the question; nevertheless, she was determined to put her new philosophy to the test. And she did. Morning, night and noon Mother earnestly told herself, "I shall have health, beauty and happiness, peace, poise and power. I shall have good remunerative work. A dignified position, drawing a good salarly shall be offered me right soon. Out of the opulance of the earth I shall draw the luxuries of life." So ran the creed. And her hopes were built up still surer when a Gypsy fortune-teller looked across a circle of playing cards and told her: "I see good fortune fer you—good work—pleasant work—much money — many friends." Mother, with her cheery neighbor and other friends, had taken an early morning hike. Over low foothills, across pebbly, flashing streams, up into the purple mountain canyons, they had slowly made their way. And then down a winding trail they had strolled, into a sunny, little dell. It was here that they came across the Gypsy camp. The wandering nomads seemed so natural a part of the picturesque surroundings that it took very little persuasion to convince Mother that she, too, should indulge in the fun of having her fortune told. And the Gypsy's words would not be silenced. Over and over again they sang themselves to Mother's eager, hopeful consciousness. "I see good fortune for you—good work —pleasant work—much money— many friends." Then, within the week, came a luring advertisement in the evening paper, for a paid welfare worker. $90 per month, guaranteed—short 357 hours—pleasant, dignified work," it read. "My position," asserted Mother, radiantly. "I hardly expected it so soon. They say the test of any plan is that it works. And it surely looks as if this new philosophy of mine is working, and that very promptly." Accordingly, Mother wrote an application for the job. Two days later, when she answered a persistent, vigorous ringing of the door bell, she was greeted by a well-groomed, energetic, efficient saleswoman, who had come to interview her in answer to her application for the welfare work. Mother's first impulse was to gently close the door and flee from the woman as she would have done before the seven plagues. But when the saleswoman looked straight into Mother's eyés, and began a smooth, logical, faultless assault upon Mother's flimsy arguments, all of her reasoning faculties seemed to suddenly collapse. Was it not as plain as 'the figures on the dial of the clock that this was the very work she had been suggesting for herself? This was the good fortune she fwas drawing from the opulence of the earth's treasurechest. Her son Hal, lying on the couch by the sunny window, was apparantly absorbed in the Bible. Addressing his brother in an undertone he said, "Say, Ned, these proverbs of Solomon are not so slow as you might think. Here he says, 'My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not'." The saleswoman cast a dark glance at Hal, but she cleared her throat and reiterated all of the points of advantage and again reminded Mother what a great opportunity was being opened for her. Mother sat like one under a spell as the oily tongue ran on. She was 358 dazed, bewildered, unable to form a decision. And then out of the confusion, a still, small voice whispered very softly in Mother's heart, "This is not the work you want." But again the clamor of the argument continued. The contract absolutely guaranteed a salary of $90 per month. Only six hours pleasant work each day was required. "How can you afford to turn down such an opportunity?" questioned the saleswoman. 'There are twenty women in this town only too anxious to accept it." Again the small voice whispered reassuringly to Mother, "This is not the work you want." And again the high pressure saleswoman drew on her most powerful reserves; this time, with such clinching arguments that Mother surrendered to her hypnotic influence and decided to take the work. Immediately the saleswoman flashed a contract from her bag and went hurriedly over the various points of advantage. Reluctantly Mother affixed her signature on the blank line at the bottom of the first page. The small voice whispered so lightly Mother could scarcely catch the thought. It was like a snowflake falling on her hand to stay its movement, "This is not the work you want." But the name was affixed now in plain clear-cut characters. Hal squirmed about on the couch uneasily, and nudged Ned, "Here's a good one, 'Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord'." The saleswoman moved uneasily, but at once began to explain about the deposit that must be made, but which would later be refunded to the last penny. After much hesitation on Mother's part, and very strong affirmative suggestions on the part of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE saleswoman, Mother finally decided, against her better judgment, to borrow the necessary amount from the children's savings box. Ned opened the box and Mother counted out the money. There were nine worn one dollar bills. She opened her purse and took out a silver dollar to make up the full amount of the deposit. She smoothed the bills out carefully, almost tenderly. The saleswoman reached for the money but Mother's fingers closed over it gently. The saleswoman urged her to sign the other side of the contract promptly, and thus close the deal, as her time was limited. Again Mother counted out the money. "Tell your money goodbye," whispered the small voice in Mother's heart. This time the voice was pleading, pathetic. "Sign right here," said the saleswoman, her magnetic eyes looking straight into Mother's face. "My son," continued Hal's voice, in a solemn undertone, "defraud not the poor of his living." Mother sat up with a start. Spell was broken. "Right here," repeated the saleswoman, reaching out the pen. But Mother did not see the pen at all. She was folding up the nine worn bills. Placing the silver dollar on top of them, she slipped the money into her purse and closed the purse with a snap. "I have changed my mind," she said, in such a firm decided tone that the saleswoman looked up in surprise. The expression on Mother's face endorsed the tone of her voice and the snap of the purse. "A fine time to change your mind, I must say," burst out the disappointed saleswoman in great warmth. Hal's voice was heard dronning out another proverb, "He that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him." The EASY MONEY The saleswoman openly glared at him, but apparently, all unmindful of her agitation, he read on, "Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbor's house: lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee." Mother did not make any. Response. She sat calm and silent, her hand touching her purse caressingly. The saleswoman snatched up the contract and indignantly tore it into pieces and tossed it into the waste basket. Adjusting the papers and books in her brief case, she drew her wraps about her and walked briskly out of the house. As she closed the front door with a bang, Ned's voice startled the household with a long drawn-out wail. Mother jumped to her feet in alarm, but Hal raised his head slowly and inquired, "Who stepped on the elephant's foot?" "Look here, Mother, look!" exclaimed Ned, excitedly, as he pieced the bits of the torn contract together. "You sure had a keen hunch when you refused to sign her miserable paper." The three heads were touching each other as they bent over the contract. "Sufferin' cats!" ejaculated Hal. "So that was her game." And he gave a long, low whistle. The signature on the reverse side of the contract, would have cancelled all promises made on the face of the document, and put Mother on a twenty per cent sales contract for an old fashioned book few people would even take time to read. Just then the telephone rang loudly. Ned hurried to answer it and came back smiling. Saluting in mock gravity he announced, "Mosiah G, R. L. Ivingstone, City Super359 intendent of Public Instruction, desires to speak with Margaret Ann Tuttle at her earliest convenience." Mother hurried to the telephone and Hal immediately constituted himself as a committee of one to listen in on the conversation. He in turn relayed the message to Ned, in whispered broken sentences: "Application accepted by Board—Sign contract tomorrow—Art department in the Parry School—$125 per month." As the receiver clicked on the hook Hal let out a hilarious shout. "The cave man must be seriously injured," ejaculated Ned, trying to look dignified. Mother was too overwrought to attempt a hot dinner. She hurriedly spread a wholesome lunch on the table and the three of them took their places. Hal surveyed the spread with a twinkle in his eye, "Well, Mammy," he drawled in a Southern twang, "dis am a considerable amount ob dishes fer de fewness ob de vittels." "What do we care,' exclaimed Ned, "whether we eat at all or not, now that Mother's found the pot of gold at the foot of the rainbow." Mother did not dare trust her voice. She smiled gratefully and made a hurried trip to the kitchen to recover her mental poise, and to bring in the last bottle of strawberry preserve. "That's the idea," approved Hal, "let's celebrate." "We'll celebrate in more ways than one," smiled Mother. "I can't really tell you just how glad I am that I have two sons who are, well— just right; that I have a good job, and—and—that I have found myself."
