Should the Rural Counties of Utah Employ a Trained Social Worker? A DISCUSSION OF SOME OF THE ISSUES INVOLVED By Joseph A, Geddes Professor of Sociology, Utah State Agriculture College Abstract THE welfare work the L. D. S. Relief Societies are doing constitutes an experiment of considerable magnitude in Volunteer Welfare Work. With the aid of a trained service in Salt Lake City there is in process of development a semi-trained service in the rural areas. This important effort naturally encounters many handicaps. Among them is a lack of any county service in the rural counties which provides for the nuclei of machinery on which modern social work depends for its success. If a county case worker and clearing machinery were provided particularly in the larger counties, volunteer social work could move along more rapidly towards the important goals of Social Work. The Combination Plan in which many of the counties rely on the local bishops for the distribution of county relief further complicates the problem by introducing a different set of factors. These factors are of such a nature that in most cases they must be worked out by the county unit. There is danger that the L. D. S. Experiment in building up volunteer machinery may itself be jeopardized through the taking over of county services without in turn being able to control county problems. A trained county case worker to center effort on county problems and to aid volunteer service in developing machinery for clearing, for cooperation between agencies, and for the gradual growth of types of services needed for effective social work, would make it possible to develop a satisfactory ground work for the handling of a very perplexing problem. The larger counties are undoubtedly spending too much money to warrant getting along without such help. For a limited period during bad times it would seem that the smallest counties could with profit employ a well trained experienced social worker: The Demand For Retrenchment DURING the past few years retrenchment has overshadowed everything else. The language of recession appears on almost every printed page. Balance the budget—Eliminate— Reduce costs—Cut down on overhead — Reduce wages — Decrease output—Shorten the work day— Reduce taxes—Shorten the school year — Cut Salaries — Reorganize government bureaus—-No vacations on pay—A buck a bushel or bust— on go the audible demands of unhappy economic groups who turn this way and that only to find themselves in a straight-jacket which relentlessly insists on reorganization. A day of slashing arises—here, there or anywhere. A slashing period is a time of opportunity and a time of danger. The opportunity lies in the possibility of eliminating waste; danger  appears in aggravated opposition to bad things and good things alike. It is conceivable that a well directed social movement might sweep away from the social structure a vast mass of useless machinery without harming any vital social value. It is likewise conceivable that a blind determination to cut down costs may destroy gains that have taken decades of sacrificial service to build up, leaving untouched great fields of wasteful expenditure. What we need most is an intelligent drive to cut down costs in the light of and in harmony with a movement to conserve and protect the real values in the social heritage. Relief costs" differ from ordinary costs in that they maintain a reciprocal relation. When the national income is large and expenditures in the social fields are high, relief expenditures tend to be low; when social income is small and social institutions are in consequence starved, relief for the unemployed and the handicapped grows rapidly. If it were not so famine and pestilence would still exact tremendous tolls. The Present Alignment AT the present time the average county in rural Utah spends more money for welfare work than all other organized agencies combined. The L. D. S. Church operating through the ward bishops and the Relief Societies comes second. There is this difference between these two organizations. The county usually confines its efforts to gathering funds through taxation. It has not developed a welfare agency through which the constructive work in distributing funds can be carried out. The county therefore although it is the largest spender is not a welfare agency in a real sense at the present time. The L. D. S. Church on the other hand both gathers its own funds and has developed a volunteer agency—The Relief Societies—to assist the bishops in distributing funds in harmony with modern acceptable standards. The L. D. S. Church has not yet attempted to develop in the stakes and wards any kind of paid service to supplement its volunteer system. Because the L. D. S. Volunteer service is outstanding in its field many of the county commissioners have tended to rely on it to help handle the distribution of county funds also. Thus a two fold burden has come to rest on many of the local church relief organizations. (1) the carrying of its own load for which it was organized and, (2) the carrying of a part of the county load, over which it does not have full control and for the handling of which its organizational mechanism was not designed. Overhead Can Be Reduced Too Much WHERE volunteer work is ineffectively done a considerable portion of the people may more or less unconsciously become pauperized. This result arises in part because volunteer efforts often fail to function when the need is greatest and because volunteer workers are not trained and cannot be trained sufficiently to do this work adequately. It is an important doctrine in the social work profession that the highest possible percentage of the relief dollar shall get to those in need, keeping in mind satisfactory service. It is distinctly to the credit of social workers that a much higher percentage does actually arise than through any other procedure. Those who have been insisting recently that nothing shall be spent on administration in order that 100 cents on the dollar shall go to the poor, have presented a high sounding program which is so deceptive that it RURAL COUNTIES OF UTAH 89 constitutes a serious social danger. Under improvised and wholly volunteer machinery a very large proportion of the relief dollar fails to go where it should. Much of it also goes where real harm is done. The attainment of a high percentage is a question of right proportion between overhead and distribution. The need for a proper balance is as great in social work as it is in business. Well organized social work machinery strengthens the individual resistance to decline and constitutes a strong barrier to the menace of pauperism. Some Opinions THREE influential people were recently asked this question: What help does your county need most? Without any hesitation one replied, "We need a paid family case worker." Another said, "I think we need most a public health nurse. A third held, "We don't need anything bad enough to pay for it during these bad times." Those who think that a volunteer system is adequate base their case on such propositions as these: 1. In a volunteer system overhead is at the zero point. 2. A volunteer system replaces in part individual giving and is a great improvement over such giving. 3. The volunteer method represents a stage of development and is well suited to rural conditions where resources do not warrant strong paid agencies. 4. Unpaid service gives opportunity for the exercise of the philanthropic motive and helps both those who receive and those who give. 5. The volunteer principle is particularly useful to religious organizations because pure altruistic service at a time of great need makes possible the teaching of religious truths more effectively. Those who feel that a competent case worker should be employed by the county in spite of unfavorable economic conditions are influenced chiefly by the following positive considerations: 1. The county commissioners constitute what may be termed a general or board type of body. They handle hundreds of different problems in widely diverse fields. In some of them they wisely call in experts. In social work a profession has arisen. During the short time a commissioner is in office he cannot come to know adequately the problems involved without expert help. A county case worker could provide this help. 2. Contrary to the claims of the friends of the volunteer system, wastes under it are large, and positive harm to the social fabric is much greater than it is thought to be (in the county). 3. The fact that the times are unusually bad constitutes a strong reason for the employment of a county case worker. When danger is greatest the ablest should be at work, Mistakes are costly when millions are involved. Society cannot afford to get along with volunteer machinery alone in times like the present. 4. The volunteer method used by the L. D. S. Church in Rural Utah serves social work need within the church on a much more satisfactory basis than it can be expected to serve county welfare work. This statement holds true also where the county commissioners distribute most of the county funds through the L. D. S. Bishops. The local L. D. S. Church organization was not designed to take care of county work and local church officers do not have sufficient control over county welfare work to really get at the chief difficulties which the 90 county commissioners encounter. 5. The use of trained help to supplement and cooperate with volunteer agencies does not necessarily mean a greater total expenditure. It means a further organization of cooperative work, and in part a redirection of effort towards social objectives making possible a use of recognized social work machinery. Some Data on These Problems DURING the past few years the Sociology Department of the Utah State Agricultural College has conducted studies of social welfare work in a number of rural counties. Alden Lillywhite, Miss Mercy Nelson and Welling Roskelley have gathered data dealing with the principal phases of welfare work. These studies show a surprising similarity of trends in all of the counties studied. Among the difficulties which the newly elected county commissioner faces and which indicate the need of training help are these:. 1. Local area pressure on the commissioners. The local area from which the commissioner comes expects him to do his full duty by his own locality. This pressure along with the fact that the commissioner is well acquainted with most of those who are in need of assistance in his home district tends to bring about a very uneven distribution on the county relief roll. In one county where conditions are relatively homogeneous eight towns do not have any of their poor on the county roll. None of these towns have provided the county with a county commissioner for many years. On the other hand one town has as high as 28.4 per 1000 of population on the county roll. This town has been well represented in the commissionership. For some time the commissioners in this county have been trying to minimize this difficulty by distributing county relief through the L. D. S. Bishops. This means that the bishops largely recommend those who are placed on the county roll. It might be expected that this would correct the inequality. On the contrary partial dependence on the bishops magnifies it. One bishop wants as many from his ward on the roll as he can get placed there, another wants as few on as possible or none at all. Furthermore since the commissioners have the final voice, many of those recommended by the bishops are not accepted. While ostensibly distribution is in the hands of the bishops it is quite clear that they do not have sufficient control to correct the difficulty. So that while the bishops have recommended the great majority of those who actually are on the county roll the fact that the commissioners retain the right to accept or reject and the fact that two rather popular recommending agencies are "another person" or "not given" makes it possible for such influences as locality representation on the commission or clerkship, politics, family relationship, etc., to maintain the glaring inequalities indicated above. It was a commendable thing for the commissioners in seeking relief from insistent people to turn to the local L. D. S. Bishops. The bishops, however, have not provided the help needed nor does it appear that they are in a position to give it. A trained county case worker with the help of the local Relief Society Presidents could soon provide the commissioners with the information needed and with a program which would rectify the evil. 2. The tendency to increase relief expenditures in good times and decrease them in bad times. It has RURAL COUNTIES OF UTAH 91 been customary in Utah to provide liberally for the poor during good times when tax receipts were large and to cut down severely during bad times when revenues were low. In one county during the depression of 1920-24 the appropriations for relief dropped from $29,876.05 in 1920 to $23,706.18 in 1921. It remained low all through the difficult times of 1922-23-24. In the later year it was $23,862.42. In 1925 it jumped to $28,606.18 and reached a peak of $35,414.97 in 1930 when another decline set in. This astonishing procedure is not explainable in terms of any real conception of the nature and necessities of this work. If the people could get along with $23,706.18 in 1921, they could probably have done with $15,000 per: year during the years 1925-29. Two things could have been done during the prosperous period which would have relieved a good deal of suffering: 1st, a fund could have been created with a deposit of $15,000 a year to take care of the coming difficult period following 1929—a surplus fund of $60,000 would have been very useful as the difficulties of 1929 hove in sight. 2nd, a competent case worker could have been employed to cooperate with volunteer agencies in undertaking constructive rehabilitation work with the objective in view of cutting the relief load down. 3. Achieving cooperation among the various welfare agencies. This is a perplexing problem. In the average county seat in Rural Utah there are probably one-half dozen agencies that do some form of relief work. Much of it is of an incidental type, but in each case the amount spent helps to swell the total. A conservative estimate in one county places the total for the year 1928 at $80,000.00. In ten years this would mean an expenditure of more: than three quarters of a million dollars. Though nearly everyone in this county believed in the principle of cooperation there was and is yet but little machinery through which cooperation can be successfully attained. Consider the problem of clearing the names of those assisted. None of the various agencies in this county had possession of adequate knowledge of the underprivileged in the county. If an agency wanted to make its contribution fit the general scheme to which agency should it go for information? No exchange existed and none of the agencies did any clearing. If real cooperation is developed clearing names is a necessary prerequisite. Now if a county welfare worker were employed it would be a relatively, inexpensive thing with a little clerical help for all of the agencies to clear through her office. Thus a standardized control source of information would gradually develop which would be very valuable to all of the agencies. Can a county which spends three-fourths of a million dollars in 10 years afford to spend that much money without doing any clearing? 4. The growing size of the relief burden. In one Stake studied the total expenditures for charity in 1915 was $1,739.06, by 1928 this had grown to $2,013.57.. In another county the 1915 total was $6,027.06, in 1925 it was $15,881.66. In this same area the county expenditure was $17,552.61 in 1915 and $30,269.22 in 1928. After making allowance for changes in the purchasing power of the dollar it is still obvious that the burden of relief has grown rapidly in normal times in these sections just as it has elsewhere in the nation. At the present time, in the fourth year of the depression  the national expenditures for relief have reached staggering figures and the end is not yet in sight. Cook County's recent decision to issue $40,000,000 of bonds to tide over the next six months suggests the magnitude of the problem which is still left after Federal Relief apportionments have been expended. 5. The tendency to stay on the roll, There appears to be a direct connection between the rapid increase in relief during the past two decades and the failure to employ trained help so that case methods could be employed. A typical case illustrates the problem. A new worthy person. Properly recommended applies for relief. An old client objects to being taken off the roll. In the absence of satisfactory information and in the face of insistent demanding voices the commissioners find it easier to reduce a few cases and to add another name rather than remove the old one. In many cases the amount given is too small to do much good. So the roll grows in length and the money expended increases in amount. Gradually a system develops in which it is a common thing after getting on the roll to remain on for life. Conclusion THESE studies thus strongly indicate the need of some trained paid help. It is possible that studies in other counties may show that volunteer service has been more successful in handling county relief. It is possible also that the Relief Societies would be willing to expand their efforts and their organization in order to do county work. But in the counties studied it does not appear likely that volunteer machinery can be expected to overcome the evils encountered. The importance of achieving coordination, of eliminating inequality and of attaining genuine cooperation is undoubtedly great enough to warrant not only the expenditure of considerable effort towards that end but also the spending of enough money to lay the groundwork for a satisfactory approach to this problem. The longer this is delayed, the larger will be the task and the more burdensome will it become. After all there is nothing quite so costly to the contributor, whether he be a taxpayer or a voluntary giver, as a wholesale increase in the number who feel that they need or have a right to help from others.