A Beautiful Prayer EVERY morning Grace Morrison Poole, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs offers this beautiful prayer, "Help me dear God to make the most of the many opportunities for service that will be mine today." EDITORIAL 111 "Mother Heart of Gold" THEODORE E, CURTIS has just published a volume of beautiful poems and tributes to "Mother" entitled "Mother Heart of Gold." The paper is very fine, the print clear, the illustrations good. The volume also contains lovely tributes to "Mother" from President Heber J. Grant, President Joseph F. Smith, Elders John A. Widtsoe, Orson F. Whitney, Melvin J. Ballard, Reed Smoot, James E. Talmage and David O. McKay. President Ivins pronounces the book "A gem." Dr. Talmage wrote to the author, "Every reader of your inspired lines is better for having read." Orson F. Whitney said, "Your poems are beautiful, you are a true poet." This volume would make a lovely gift for mothers on "Mother's Day." "Echoes" ANNA JOHNSON, long known because of her efficient labors in the Beehive Work has just issued a volume of poems called "Echoes." The book is divided into sections, entitled Philosophy, Songs of the Sea, Nature's Loveliness, A Bit of Nonsense Now and Then Memories and Fancies, and Meditation. We are surprised at the variety of thought which has come from Miss Johnson's pen. One may open the volume where she will and get an uplifting thought or a bit of humor. Many of the poems will appeal to children. Important Announcements WE call the attention of our readers to two announcements on page 103 of this issue. We hope there will be widespread interest in the exhibition of handwork. We are sure the display will be a source of pleasure and profit to all who see what is being accomplished in the stakes of the Church in this department of our work. Every stake should begin immediately to prepare the exhibit that is to be sent to represent their handwork. We all feel the need of a Relief Society song that shall be worthy of our great organization and that shall inspire us when we sing it. We hope our poets and musicians will send in some outstanding songs. Some Pertinent Questions Does the temperature rise or fall when I enter the room? Do I poison the atmosphere with my whining? Am I given to fault finding? Am I pessimistic? Am I harsh in my judgment? Am I just? Do I talk too much? Do I talk too loud? Do I spend my time profitably? Am I fussy? Am I selfish? Am I lazy? Am I untidy? Am I my worst at home? Am I dependable?