The Nation Mourns CALVIN COOLIDGE, the former President of the United States, died in his home January 5, 1933. A Nation, appreciative of the high service he rendered, sorrows at his passing. His regime was marked by the careful research he made in matters that came to the fore during his administration. He thought things through and then arrived at a clear decision. His life was a sermon to his countrymen. He was sincere, retiring, true to his trust. His devoted wife desired that his 110 funeral should be as he would have it, void of ostentation and show. The young clergyman, Albert J. Penner, offered these beautiful prayers at the services: "Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, at this moment a whole nation stricken with grief, bows before Thee. We are made to realize again the frailty and transitoriness of our life here upon earth, and our constant need of Thee, who art the eternal Rock of Ages. We thank Thee, O God, that we can cling to Thee, and that amid all the change and decay which all around we see, Thou never changest. "It is not alone a grief stricken nation which bows before Thee, it is a thankful nation, as well. We thank Thee for the life of him whose death we now mourn. We thank Thee for what his life has meant to the country and the world. We thank Thee for the exemplary devotion which he showed in the discharge of all his public duties. We thank Thee for the faithfulness with which he served his town. "We thank Thee for the measure of dedication which he brought to the service of the commonwealth. And, above all, do we bless Thee for the consecration with which he served his country in the highest office within the gift of the people. He kept the faith which the people placed in him. "May we not begrudge him, whose loss we so deeply mourn, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rest with Thee which he has so richly deserved, knowing that by Thy mercy and grace he finished his course, having kept the faith." "Almighty God, grant us Thy light to shine through the shadows of this hour. Comfort the hearts that are heavy with sorrow, and have compassion upon our weakness. Give us the vision of the large life beyond. * * * We know he is not dead?for with Thee there is no death. * * * And now we pray that Thou wouldst make his memory to be a bright and shining light upon the untried way that we still must walk, and upon the unknown path that our nation still has to go. May we share his devotion, his consecration and his ardent faith in the future, a faith that was rooted and grounded in a profound faith in Thee." Mrs. Coolidge, who has won the admiration and love of her countrymen as did her distinguished husband, has ever set an example of wifely and maternal devotion and helpfulness. She has been a radiating power and an ever present loveliness in his life. She set an example of control at the funeral that was most praiseworthy. The press records that she entered the church, where 27 years before she and Calvin Coolidge had plighted their troth, with her head held high, elasticity in her step and a smile about her lips. She had led a devout life and her faith sustained her in parting from her life's companion..