Mother Heart and Scouting By Weston N. Nordgren about the year 64 B. C., went forth to battle in defense of their country. "Now they never had fought," the historian tells us, "yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them." These young men, J should judge, were of Boy Scout age—in their teens; for Helaman says of them: "I had ever called them my sons, To thousand young men, for they 'were all of them very young." Their mothers had filled a Godgiven duty to their sons, and had instilled in them such faith in the Lord, such courage and determination that when the battle was over and Helaman went forth to find the dead, he was overjoyed; for "there had not one soul of them fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the strength of God; yea, never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power did they fall upon the Lamanites 96. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that they did frighten them; and for this cause did the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war." Mothers of today are just as interested in the welfare of their boys in America, and in other nations of the world, as were the Nephite mothers centuries ago. They teach them the self-same principles of right—principles which make them manly, which develop their character and in time make them useful citizens of this great and peaceloving land. UT mothers cannot always take care of their sons; part of the time at least, Bobby and Jimmy are at school, rubbing elbows with other little men; and as they grow up, they join "clubs" and "gangs" which they may organize themselves, or which others may organize for them. Scouting was begun twenty-four years ago by an Englishman, Sir Robert S. S. Baden-Powell, who still wields a mighty influence upon the boys of the world. He is ripe in experience of war and peace and has tried to capitalize for good the instinct of boys to congregate and to form groups. In putting forth his opinion during the World Jamboree in England, when the rain poured and some of the Scouts were downhearted, he said in effect: "Any boy can be a Scout in fair weather." It is to conquer the hard things of life; to overcome obstacles and to build character that Scouting was originated. "A Scout finds fun in hiking into the woods! He tells North from South by the moss on the trees, or East from West by the shadows. "He can talk to a brother Scout across a river by signalling. He knows the principal trees and birds and animals that he meets; he knows which are poisonous weeds or reptiles; he can find his way by the stars as did the Indians and pioneers before him. "If matches are forgotten, he ~ laughs and proceeds to kindle fire by rubbing sticks together or by striking steel on flint. The fire once started, what good things he can cook out there in the open! "He keeps himself physically fit; he avoids poisons of alcohol or tobacco; he guards his tongue from loose speech or boasting or sacrilege. When he speaks of anyone, he tries to speak well of him. "His Scout 'good turns' to someone each day make him many friends—for the way to have friends is to first be one. His motto is "Be Prepared' and he thinks through in advance what he would -do in fire or storm. When someone is injured he is 'ready' to help him with his First Aid knowledge. "He always tries to be a useful citizen. He helps his community. "Another big thing a Scout enjoys is camping—there he finds fun in games or a swim-—finds new friends in woods and in other fellows—and there among the trees, or under God's silent stars, or by the campfire's ruddy embers, he dreams out his great TOMORROW." ONE of the finest oaths in the world, and which he subscribes to is the Scout Oath: "On my honor I will do my best— 1. To do my duty to God and my country, and to obey the Scout Law. 2. To help other people at all times. 3. To keep myself physically *Flandbook For Boys, page 8; published by The Boy Scouts of America. MOTHER HEART AND SCOUTING 97 strong, mentally awake, and morally straight." Any boy who lives up to the three points of this oath, will become a useful citizen of the Kingdom of God. The Word of Wisdom, given to the Church through Joseph Smith the Prophet, at Kirtland, Ohio, February 27, 1833, plays a large part in the lives of boys successful in Scouting. A Scout must so live that he can "run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint." He is able, through right diet, exercise, vigorous contact with the Great Out Doors, to "find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures" in the leaves of the trees, in the songs of birds, in the stars, and in his close, private communion with God. He is able to live in camp with his fellow Scouts, secure in the knowledge that he is fully prepared, physically, mentally, morally, and spiritually, to meet the problems of today and tackle the tasks of tomorrow. He is a citizen away from home, a "man among men;" and at home he is of service wherever he finds opportunity for a "good turn." RECENTLY I heard a little story that illustrates the power of the mother heart in connection with Scouting. A couple had been married for a long period of time, without being blessed with any children. At last a child came—a boy. And as the mother held him for the first time in her arms, she whispered to her husband: "Dearest, I want you to join the Boy Scouts, so that when this little lad of ours grows up, and gets twelve years old, you will be ready and qualified to lead Him into manhood." "All right, Darling," the husband responded enthusiastically, "I'll do it. And I'll advance one rank for each son you give me!" With that agreement, he started to work. He became a Boy Scout. He passed his first test. The thrill of "doing things" urged him on. He went ahead. Now he has two fine sons. He did not stop after passing his Second Class rank.. He climbed upward, passed his First 'Class test, became a Star Scout; then a Life Scout, gaining merit badges, increasing his knowledge, sharpening his interest in the Boy Scout movement and program. Stillon and up, until with twenty-one merit badges and much experience to his credit, he became a full-fledged Eagle Scout. He is going forward. He is keeping young, he is preparing himself for that day when his sons will be old enough to begin Scouting, and will look to him, as their mother looked to him, to lead them up the Eagle Scout trail to worthy manhood. W HEN the Salt Lake Council, Boy Scouts of America, held its first annual Boy Scout "Circus" at the South High School gymnasium. Parents were invited, and several hundred came; mothers taking just as much interest as fathers in this great game of Scouting which their sons put over. There again were two thousand young {men, eager, happy, strong and faithful, giving an example of what they had learned through the long winter meetings indors. Games of skill, speed and cooperation were thrown, one after the other, on the great floor of the arena—''skin the snake," first aid carry, uniform race, fire making songs, pyramid building, centipede rope race, wall scaling; and at intervals, clowning.  The boys were prepared, and took to the contests like the proverbial ducks to water. Cheer after cheer came from the _ watching troops; roar after roar of applause came from parents and non-participating Scouts. A remarkable feature of the evening was the great number of officials present; men "high in the community," teachers, doctors, lawyers, journalists, farmers, some men who had lost their jobs—all rushing here and there, knowing what was needed, doing it. All were animated with the single idea of presenting to the parents a real show. And while wives and mothers and sweethearts looked on, those boys, old, middle-aged and young, played up to the mother heart. The mothers were proud of them. Who wouldn't be? WHETHER in camp, in schol, or at home, a boy takes his Scouting seriously. One of the most glorious and tnrilling stories illustrating this point, according to Channing Pollock, in a December issue of Boy's Life, is the following: "It's a story you probably know, about the twelve-year-old. Boy out West who was hurt in a street-car accident. The motorman was hurt, too, but not nearly as badly as the boy, who lost both his legs. When they were dragging the little fellow from under the car, he asked them not to bother about him until they had taken care of the motorman. "In the hospital, a nurse said to him: 'It was brave of you to think first of the motorman.' "The lad looked at her with surprise, and said: 'Why, I had to. You see, I'm a Boy Scout'." We are proud of that kind of Scouting spirit. "It isn't pleasant to die, but I think it was a lot more thrilling and romantic to die in that way than to be killed in a brawl." SCOUTING is living; it is the greatest boys' game ever invented or thought up. It is a game Dad and Mother can play with their sons. It is "a man's game cut to a boy's size," Latter-day Saint organizations sponsor the movement because it provides 'leadership, observance of the Word of Wisdom, builds clean bodies and healthy minds; gets the boy into the open—in summer camp under the direction of experts, close to nature, with the ability to cope with the elements, and to overcome obstacles in daily life, individually, or with a group; it gives him stamina, strength and endurance mentally, physically, morally and spiritually. Every boy should have the privilege of camping this summer. Mother—help your boy to have this opportunity. Send him forth as a knight to battle the evils and temptations of the world, with Scouting his armor; the Scout Oath his lance, and the Scout Law his shield. And when his week in camp is over, or when he returns at nightfall from his school work or other labor of the day, welcome him home; give him a "feast of honor" with Word of Wisdom foods. Cherish him and love him. Guard him with your mother heart, and aid him, through entrusting him to Scouting, to become the man of whom you can be proud. Like the two thousand young men led by the Nephite, Helaman, so our young men of today go forth, "taught by their mothers," and strengthened by actual experience in Boy Scout work, to face the morrow, with faith in their God and in their fellow men,