Aware of the chase the whale bites Ahab's boat in twain. Ahab and his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crew are rescued as the "Pequod" sails on the whale and drives him off. The second day comes, again the enemy glides back. The boats are lowered again. With open jaws and lashing tail Moby Dick dashes for the boats, this time throwing Ahab's boat high in the air. Ahab's ivory leg is snapped off this time. The third day comes, a calm beautiful day. In due time the boats are lowered to seek the whale. Starbuck pleads with his captain, "Go not, Moby Dick seeks thee not." Ahab staggers on; nothing can divert him. The whale is sighted and the boats give chase. Moby Dick churning his tail among the boats dashes in the bows of the mate's boat. Ahab keeps on until hz is near enough to send the harpoon into his enmey. The stricken whale flew forward and bearing down on the "Pequod" shivers her sides. As the ship settles, Ahab makes one last thrust at the whale. He becomes entangled in the line and is drowned. "The great shroud of the sea rolled on." Ishmael alone is left to tell the story. The story finished a few months before Melville's death is in many ways a thought sequel to "Moby Dick". Melville's early gospel was that of Selfhood. After a life of spiritual turbulence he found peace and comfort. His last work, "Billy Budd", reveals a _ reconciliation with life and an affirmation of the divine law, "'Tis God's to judge." Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. Moby Dick?Melville. 2. The Delight of Great Books ?Erskine. 3. Herman Freeman, Melville?John LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Herman Melville?Lewwis Mumford. B. Projects. 1. Music: a. Crossing the nyson. B. Invictus?Henley. 2. Reading: a. Sea Fever?Masefield. B. Father Mapple's Sermon ?Chapter viii. Bar?Ten- 123 C. Method. The lesson and the essay on "Moby Dick" provide ample material in themselves. If any of the books listed are available, they will add much to the understanding of the greatness of the novel. There are two stories equally interesting, Melville's story and the novel. Social Service (Fourth Week in April) INTERPRETING THE WORLD IN TERMS OF MEANINGS LESSON VII. Life is complex. A person must learn to act in relation to all of its elements. People who try to control others often misunderstand those whom they direct because of differences in what the world means. Each generation has experiences as children unknown to the childhood of its parents. The new experiences make the world tmean different things. These feelings of meanings really control the behavior, conduct or reaction the individual makes to his environment. It is not possible except in an extended study of the psychology of perception and ideation to know in detail the mental processes involved. The aim of this lesson therefore is to show the need for parents and teachers to know the part "meanings" play in life so they will not misjudge children. Suggestions for Class Procedure: The material outlined in the reading guide is very general. As indicated there the chief value will be to see the relation of "meanings" to some specific problems. Assign the class this reading and ask them to come prepared to explain the eleven topics listed. The class leader should use the first quotation in the supplementary material as a statement to develop interest. Then discuss the topics from the reading in the pamphlet. The material under topic III in the supplementary material should be used if and as needed by the class leader. A special topic on "Conflict in the Homes because of Misunderstood words" could be assigned to a class member. An excellent summary could be made by having class members relate incidents of adult-child adjustment which have been unpleasant because the adult assumed that the child has feelings ur meanings which his experience has never furnished, or which have been very successful because the adult understood the meanings as the child knew them. The ability to put oneself in the position of the child, vicariousness, is a great art for those who would lead children. Reading Guide for Class Members. Growth?pages 29-31, 124 This material is very important and will require careful intensive reading. Read the three pages through. Turn then to the paragraph on page 30 which begins: "Gradually the real and the unreal become more clear to the child." Read this carefully and note the implied questions or conclusions: 1. The child gradually develops an adjustment to a real world properly interpreted. 2. The child grows by participating in this world. 3. Children do not try to pretend. 4. Children act in the world even though it is only partially understood. They may seem to be in a world of fancy or imagination because of this incompleteness of knowledge.. After analyzing this paragraph, carefully reread the others to see how children acquire the following meanings: 1. Other children have feelings, wants, desires, etc. Sharing and cooperation. Safety from physical risks. Use of common objects. Toys. Feeling of security in the home. Good manners. Source of comforts leading to appreciation. 9. Need for self care. 10. World of vocational opportunities. 11. Relation to control of other people. CONRAN WN Supplementary Material I. The problem: (Curti, 186-7). "A baby of one month responds only to a very limited range of stimuli. Things happening in the next room are entirely beyond his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ken, the past is probably non- existent in his thought, the future unimagined. He has no ideas of self or of other people, no conceptions of the world, of space or time or beauty. Taken to the top of a high hill in the midst of a fertile countryside, he would see nothing of the fields and villages, or the green hills against the sky. The sound of the engines in the city below, the whirring of an aeroplane, the rush of the wind in the pine trees?none of these would have for him either value or meaning. Yet in five years more, taken to the same hilltop, this child will look out seeingly upon the same world, exclaiming about things far and near, asking questions, scanning the sky when he hears an aeroplane, and breathing in the odor of the pine trees with delight. Years later, as a youth, he will see a still different picture. He may be then less interested in the objects themselves than in what they stand for. Not factories in the hill villages, but problems of modern industry may occupy his mind; not the number and size of the houses, but the lives and thoughts of the people living in them. The sight of the hills against the sky may make him feel dissatisfied with his own city home and way of living: he may begin to dream and to plan out his own future. Obviously, the same world appears very differently to different people. But for every child its meaning grows and changes with astonishing rapidity. How does the world come to take on this rich and changing significance? It would be too much to expect, ever, an entirely adequate explanation of this complex and marvelous development. The psychologist can, however, show LESSON DEPARTMENT that it is an orderly process and point out some of the factors and principles involved.'" II. An illustration of how the child learns the meaning of "Mother." (Curti, pp. 218-19). "To the baby a few months old the word mother means no more than' any other combination of sounds. After he has heard the word repeatedly applied to his own mother, however, it has begun to take on meaning; for now when the mother herself is absent, and he hears the word, he may respond to it with some of the behavior which was formerly called out only by the mother herself. A year-old baby, told "Mother is coming," may begin excitedly to rock back and forth in his crib, to smile and coo. After the child has begun to "think," the word mother may evoke ideas, as well as emotional and overt responses. Now as time goes on the child reacts to the mother, and to the word mother which is applied to her by himself and others in an ever widening variety of situations. She feeds him, and the name is thus associated with (tends to call out) pleasant feeling responses connected with the dinner hour. She bathes him, caresses him, tells him stories, and tucks him in bed with a good night kiss. Thus the word mother, heard when the actual person is 'present, comes to elicit many positive reactions, and, when the child is old enough to think about his past experience, many related ideas. The word becomes capable of reinstating less pleasant responses, too, for the mother slaps his hand when he snatches at food, and speaks solemnly to him when he is naughty. Hence the word mother comes gradually to mean refraining from 'harmful actions. 125 In early childhood this word is likely to call up ideas of goodness, even of perfection. The mother answers all the questions the child can ask, and she tells him what is good and what is bad. Therefore he comes to think of her as an authority and a judge. With the experiences of his later childhood, the meaning of the word mother alters still more. The child learns that his mother suffers, and that she sometimes makes mistakes; and when people speak to him of his mother, he may think of these things too. For a child whose mother has left home, has died, or has become insane, the word becomes charged with very special meaning. It may now evoke tears, disturbing terror-dreams, or feelings of loneliness and depression. In later years, when the child approaching maturity, has had wide acquaintance with other mothers than his own, in actual life as well as in books and plays, the word mother usually has much richer meaning than it did in childhood. For children brought up in accustomed ways, the word will have a more or less standardized meaning?it will have been associated with certain common experiences.. But for each individual the shading of meaning will vary according to his special experience and the social maturity he attains.' III. Meaning is the varied responses stimulated by a situation. Meaning develops through experience. Each experience leaves an effect which modifies future responses. The object or situation means different things, therefore, as responses change, it is only through the gradual acquisition of experiences and their organization in adjustment that the child's world assumes meaning- 126 ful organization. Some homely practical problems will illustrate the necessity for care in controlling both the response the child makes to things and the effect each has on his life. A child is given a tin cup to play with. He drops it and the noise pleases him. Again and again he drops the cup as it is returned to him. He is also rewarded by the smile of his nurse who thinks it is a cute reaction. Later he is given a cup of milk. It is immediately dropped or thrown on the floor. This is what cup means. A little child is playing when a strange kitten comes into the home. The child is attracted by the moving animal and reaches for it. The mother seeing the situation realizes that the cat might be dirty and undesirable so she shrieks and strikes at the kitten, frightening it away. But the child is also frightened and begins to cry. Sometime later a nice little clean pup was brought to the home. The child cried in fright. This is what the little animal meant. Dr. Judd points out that learning what social situations mean is really a process of developing '"expectations." For example if an adult in taking children along the highway always follows the rules of the road with pleasant results the child learns to expect that a car coming toward him means turn to the right. If the example of courtesy which the child sees is high grade and results in pleasant associations to him, being in the company of other people brings certain expectations of conduct which he tends to produce. If lawful living is his example he tends to expect obedience to law and law becomes meaningful to him as something to be respected. Words acquire meaning through use and association. Communication RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is possible only when words have common meanings. These meanings don't just happen, experience determines them. The world is different in a home where conversation is almost wholly "ugh" and "ughhugh" or words of one syllable uttered somewhat unwillingly, from what it is in a home where words are chosen for proper expression, where questions are asked and answered freely, and conversation is common. At times parents and teachers expect children to react to words for which the child has no feeling for meaning. Many of our ethical terms such as good, sin, honest, truthful, pure, etc., come in this class. Confusion in human relations comes from a lack of meaning or lack of experience on the basis of which meaning is expressed. The child who defined "father" as a "person who gave us pennies" will often be misjudged. The child who interpreted "To our Heavenly Home on High" in terms of automobiles might be called irreverent. "Justice always gets its definition in detail from the social environment. The justice of earlier days is not the justice of modern times. The justice of the army is wholly different in its details from the justice of the factory. Justice is a mode of arranging relations and is therefore, a changing equilibrium." (Judd: The Psychology of Social Institutions, p. 317). The person is a part of the situation which gives meaning. For example to a hungry child a candy toy or an apple or an orange will mean immediately something to eat. To a child who has just finished a meal such objects become toys. To a jealous young man a kindness to his lady friend by others means something to resent whereas the same act performed for his sister will bring LESSON DEPARTMENT forth a response of gratitude. How meanings modify conduct and lead adults to care in controlling children is summarized by Curti as follows: (Page 237-38). "The fact that children's perceptions tend to become, as they grow older, increasingly more analytical, more logically organized, and more impersonal, may be expressed in the statement that with increase in age comes increase in accuracy. The perceptions of the young child are bound in the very nature of the case to represent, often, confusions between recalled and imagined data, to be distorted by childish interests and childish ideas, to be very inadequate as representations of reality. Onthe other hand, they may reflect what sometimes seems to be uncanny emphasis on important features of a situation. In their spontaneity and their symbolism they may be fresh and poetic in a way not possible in the more accurate and practical perception of adults. But the perceptual meanings of an adult's world, although often less aesthetically satisfying than the child's, are of course more serviceable in making possible effective adjustment. For all their charm, childish interpretations as well as childish speech and childish manners must be early put aside if the individual is to develop normally toward maturity." IV. Ideas - Memories - Imagination: These words refer to meanings where the object or situation is absent. Memory is merely the re-instatement of a past experience. Imagination associates this idea with 127- future anticipated situations. When ideas are used to plan adjustments we have the situation called thinking. Ideas will be limited wholly by the experience giving the original meanings. Miss Harrison in her little book, '"'"Misunderstood Children" tells the story of three year old Sammie who in his eagerness to. Have his aunt share a new found flower came in while she was sweeping the floor. The wind scattered the results of her labor. He was sent out. Just as she finished the second time he returned to see if she was ready. Again the fluff and dust were scattered. Anger followed. "True, she had not thought to explain to him why she wanted the door kept shut, nor had she assured him that she would let him know when he might open it. But she did not stop to think of this. He had disobeyed her intentions. "He ought to have understood. She would be obliged to sweep the room all over again!" (P. 11). The punishment and struggle need not be retold here. The story is effective. Why did the "naughty" behavior come? "He had never swept a room," nor noticed that the dust had been scattered by the wind. On what basis could one assume that "he ought to have understood." References: *Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 186-7.; *Curti: Child Psychology, pp. 218-19. "Judd: The Psychology of Social Institutions, p. 317. 'Curti: Ibid, pp. 237-8. Solitude By Merling Clyde How I love the solitude of my own home, When those I love have strayed away seeking pleasure; And I am alone to follow the bent of my choosing, To read, to write, to ponder dreamily at my leisure. I am not lon?ly, for fond memories of happy hours, A smile from a friend, a cheery word spoken hurriedly, A slow, warm pressure of the hand come now To live again and stir the heart tenderly. If it were not for hours like these, when alone we face Our true selves and see the. Error of our ways. We might grow hardened, but, here, the mask slips down And only that which is good within us stays. Dreamily, luxuriantly, I lay away all the tired thoughts of daytime;; Content that only Peace and I are here; Watching the flames that leap and are ever changing, Dying down, then suddenly to reappear. So with our hopes, so with our aims, Giving to each task our very best; Failing sometimes, yet quickly we, renewing, Hope that each new day be better than the rest. Ideals born anew at morning, now at evening Though unfinished are yet our guiding star; Though we stray sometimes from the path that we have chosen There's a Hand that seems to set the gate ajar; So that, at night-fall, when we, returning, Find still the same sweet Peace awaiting here, Like the flames quick upward leaping, ever trying, Catch the torch and start again with silent tear. Through my idle dreaming all. These things seem Clear and true. Tis the spark that keeps on shining, Shining that inspires the things we do. Heart-throbs pulsing like the fitful embers, Glowing warm while reason tempers love; When the ashes of our efforts lie before us, Let us leave the verdict to the Judge who rules above. WE SAVE YOU MONEY | Out of the High Rent District. No Rent to Pay. ROUND OAK FREE RANGE Beauty and Utility Combined in this New DEXTER 1933 ROUND OAK RANGE. A wonderful heating Range?an outstanding quick and perfect baker?a range which consumes less fuel than others? WASHER Purchased Above $59.50 awaits your inspection at our store. Call for Free Demonstration Hyland 676 Granite Furniture Co. Approval Having one's conscientious efforts approved is always thrilling, whether those efforts have for their goal the designing of a nation's flag or some more every-day objective, such as building up a printing service to a point where it meets a real need. A growing list of clients, an ever increasing number of men and women turning to us for printing counsel, and availing themselves of our efficient, courteous service, is a most pleasing assurance that our efforts to meet the printing and binding needs of the people of our communities, are winning approval. The Deseret News Press 29 RICHARDS STREET SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine DON'T BUY Just Merely Life Insurance There's such a great difference if you'll just investigate it's certain you'll insist on your policy being BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE Because it is the one company that offers you Share In The Net Earnings You'll be money ahead if your policy is with The BIG HOME COMPANY. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE?SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy