Going Home to Mother By Balborg Wheelwright AM the happy possessor of a grand-daughter, four years old, who is very fond of stories. She prefers to have them told to her, but failing that, she will tell them herself. One of her stories, a favorite with her, begins: "Once 'ere was a li'l boy, an him went out on a bear's tail." I suppose what the little boy really went out on was the bear's trail. Her stories invariably end with, “An him went home to him's muvver." Bears, lions, tigers, even elephants pass through the most agitating and unusual adventures. They are exciting enough to make your hair stand on end, but at last they all go home to their "muvvers" or mothers. Is not this a more satisfactory conclusion than that of the old fairy tale—''And they married and lived happy ever after?' What rest after the storm, how soul restoring! How human! "An him went home to his muvver"'—an astonishing bit of wisdom to be given out by a small person of three or four. And does it not embody a deep truth which has come down to us from the beginning of time? Preserved in the old myths one remembers the god, Antheaus, for instance, whose strength was always renewed every time he touched his mother, Terra, the earth. But my granddaughter has invented a far more wonderful story than that one. One of her oft-repeated adventures is when her dolly eats too much candy and gets very sick "an "then her went home to her muvver." Did not the prodigal son go home to his parent? Has not her little tongue expressed a deep felt need' Just what is meant by going home to one's mother in this larger sense is difficult to define, yet it is a universal experience. Have we not all felt at some time, often following a period of confusion and stress of circumstances, that deep sense of finding ourselves where we belonged? — a sense of restfulness, of homecoming, and general well being? It is a shifting of the spirit from the trivial and non-essential into deeper and simpler channels. It is a pause when, in the midst of this mad rush, one gets a sudden GOING HOME TO MOTHER enlarging glimpse of truth and of eternity. I have been home to my mother very many times and by many different paths. Sometimes it was by way of a book. The Bible, with the bookmark where she left off the reading for the last time, the finding of which opened the doors of my soul anew to memories of long ago. 'Sometimes it has been by way of familiar songs which I knew by heart in my childhood. Every spring there was a gathering of old friends at our house, when mother's birthday would come around. Flowers would be brought to her the first thing in the morning by her grandsons, while she was still in her bed. Flowers and friends came all day long. Before the day was over, much eating, music, and reminiscences would the enjoyed until her eyes would 'sparkle as they did in her youth. The tears would trickle down her furrowed cheeks in gratitude. This was a real being home with mother. But best of all, every Spring there is a going home to my mother. When May swings into her perfumed place among the months, she finds me returning to a well loved little corner of the world. There I am faced by the wide sweep of mountains. I wander up and down the long familiar paths and greet old friends of my youth. These friends are all so kind and true. All the sordid, trivial things of life melt away in this genial atmosphere of the out-of-doors, while the spirit takes up the essence of goodness of the permanent things in life and knits them into its being. All the horrid confusion of life is made tranquil and for a while the soul kneels down in obedience to the spirit which says, "Be still and know that all is well for I am thy God and 101 will still give thee aid." These are heaven sent periods, when the unimportant things of life are swept away in a great inrushing of eternity. Out of the past I recall one such glorified moment. It comes back to me in fragmentary memories and yet the essentials are all there. I was crossing the King's Square in Copenhagen, going toward the harbor, where lay the ship on which I was to leave in a few moments. I had kissed my mother goodbye at the door while I still had the courage to do so without weeping. I was leaving the old world behind, with all that it held dear to me. I was turning my face westward in obedience to a call that had come to me while still a child. That glorified moment for which I had fought and struggled had arrived. I was still with my mother. Mine was still the power to choose between the flesh and the spirit. It was a moment of immense importance. I could not falter now, only a coward ever turns to look back. I swung myself up the gang plank amidst the waving of handkerchiefs and the shouting of numerous schoolmates, who were bidding me goodbye. I remember I stood still, holding to the railing as the boat' glided out into the wide, soft darkness. A sweet, tear-stained face came into view, it was that of my mother. The heat and confusion almost overcame me. I remember whispering through the dark and the stillness, childishly enough, no doubt, "Oh God, be with us, that we may meet again in that land out West, as Thou hast promised those who are faithful." Through the whispering of the spirit came complete consolation to my soul with the assurance that I had done God's will. 102 I found my way down a deep narrow stair-way into the bottom of the boat where the emigrants' bunks were kept. The air was stifling, all was confusion and noise. Littlle children were crying while mothers were preparing their scanty meals. Now all was changed, I had fled from my mother and I was fleeing farther and farther away. As I looked into the dark, bitter reality returned sordid and uncertain. Yet, this was no time for regrets. Anyway, much of the best in life blooms out of its apparently sordid necessities, this was only a stepping stone to bigger and better things. It was a return, a spiritual revaluation, a contrast of temporal things in the light of things eternal. Two weeks of seasickness coupled with an intense longing for my mother had reduced me to a living skeleton. I found myself clinging to the railing of the ship once more as she glided past the statue of Liberty in New York harbor. For the first time I saw my new mother, who was to shelter me in the land of my new birth. Bless her, she was wonderful to behold, so big, so glorious. I must have made a rather pitiful looking picture as I stepped off the boat in New York. I had two long yellow braids down my back. I held a cage with a canary bird in one hand, in the other I held a wicker basket in which were all of my belongings. The four years that followed were years of hard work and intense adjustments to a new language, a new people, and strange customs. One day the postman brought a letter which contained the good news that I would again be given the privilege of being with my mother. She was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coming to America within a few days. Overcome with joy, I could hardly sense what I was doing. The day finally arrived. I was there at the station to meet her. I saw her as the train pulled in. I ran toward her and almost fell. I hardly knew her, she seemed so changed. She didn't know me for I had changed into a young woman. Once more I was home with my mother, and a real homecoming it was, an evaluation of spirit. There comes a time for all of us when we are met by the need of such a rebirth. The crucial need of the world at the present moment after two years of terrible situations when the comforts of prosperity have been dashed to pieces, is a need of spiritual evaluation. Its effect upon all of us has been that which an overwhelming catastrophy only can leave. We ask ourselves as we stand appalled, "How may we meet this situation of tragedies and depression?" I answer in all seriousness and with a deep conviction, that it can be done only by going home to our mother. Only those can withstand the awful present who have the ability to enter into spiritual sanctuaries. Only the things of the spirit can save us. Health, wealth, prosperity and security, where are they now? Ask Wall Street and the bankers of our nation. Ask half of mankind. Still the spirit whispers, "Be still and know that all is well, for-I am thy God and will still give thee aid." Oh, my little grand-daughter, this is the real going home to one's mother. I can ask no more golden talisman for you to hold fast through all the years to come and on into eternity than this magic gift of the spiritual return.