social and political regeneration in our Republic and in the rest of the world, it must be by a tremendous regeneration of moral ideals." The true standard of nght and wrong ever remains the same amid CLEANLINESS all moral change. We Latterday Saints have been "aggressively alive" for over a hundred vears preaching that God is unchangeable, that the Ten Commandments are just as important and workable now as in Moses' time. That the Sermon on the Mount and other teachings of Christ are great additional helps to keep us in the "straight and narrow," if we will but heed them. But mothers often say, "How can we influence our children to be clean in thought when they see so many pictures that appeal to the coarse brutality of man, fist fighting, gun fighting, men striking women, women throwing anything near at hand at husbands, cruel talk, low private scenes of lovemaking, etc?" WOMAN asked a question of a prominent writer regarding intelligent girls who chose to read books which discuss clinical details that belong to medical specialists, and books which have been condemned as indecent. The woman said they choose such books and chat about them quite cheerfully. Much of the reading of these girls is found between covers of obscene books sold in less respectable stores to satisfy the taste of curious adolescents. Many of today's amusements give evidence of impurity in its most dangerous form. The sanctity that once shielded the mamage relation and the shame of infidelity and adultery seem to have disappeared. Is it possible that, with continuous thoughts of the human body, and a constant obsession with sex, that our girls can go into womanhood unscarred by such influences? The writer answered, in part, that 717 these modern girls, clean and dainty in their phvsical life, and careful of their personal appearance and their culture, "batten upon the filth of dirt" by reading novels that debase the relationship between men and women, single or married. She stated that if thei mothers saw them bending over garbage barrels, it would be hornble to them, but that phvsical dirtiness is far less dangerous to fine womanhood than the distorted views of life gained from de