Shopping Yesterday Elaine Reiser HE community general store in grandfather's day stood as a monument to a man's willingness to serve his community. As the village storekeeper, he invested his money in stocks of merchandise —dried fruits, nuts, cookies, buttons, parasols, moustache curlers, washboards, sunbonnets, and medicines —to have on hand for his faithful customers. Here was a man willing to invest his money in hundreds of items of merchandise and to wait and wait until his customers wanted what he had and were willing to pay him for it. Though the general store of yesterday is not to be found in many places, one such store has been reproduced in the Sons of the Utah Pioneers Village in Salt Lake City, Utah. 'This store was owned and managed by Mr. A. Warr of Kamas, Utah, until his death. At that time the store became the property of his niece and nephew who were the beneficiaries of his will. However, they themselves were along in years and had no interest in running a general store. 'They closed it and had the doors and windows batricaded. It was in this condition that Mr. Horace A. Sorenson found the store in 1953. After he opened the windows and doors, photographs of the interior were taken in order that the store could be reproduced authentically in the Pioneer Village, 3000 Connor Street (2150 East), Salt Lake City. Kamas residents who once traded with Mr. Warr and who have visited the Village testify to the store's authenticity. Page 734 The store was the center of community life, as evidenced by the potbellied stove in the center of the room surrounded by hard, wooden chairs and a checkerboard, to add to the convenience and relaxation of the customers. Within the small store, slightly larger than an average American living room, are combined a men's and ladies' ready-to-wear, hardware, grocery, apothecary, toy, and notions store. The goods on the shelves are just as the shopkeeper left them, with prices marked and ledger entries made for all products. A variety of grinders are priced at 15¢, cuff links, 5oc, stuffed toys and wooden wagons 15¢ to 4oc, checker sets 100, silk and gold threaded evening bags $1.50, ladies hose 15c, a yard of silk lG. As a trained apothecary, Mr. Warr offered veterinary supplies, camphor, alum, and a special of glycerated asafetida—a bag to be worn around the neck to kill all germs and therefore ensure good health. Within five steps of the pharmacy are complete supplies for the horse and buggy, including whips, carriage bumpers, axle grease, and _horseshoes. The leather-handled buggy whips are marked at 5oc. For the ladies, "gay-nineties" bathing suits, navy blue with white trim, hang at one end of the store. An ample red flannel nightgown with matching cap waits to be sold for a few pounds of butter or a leg of pork. High-button shoes and middy blouses are still in their boxes, waiting for stylish customers. SHOPPING YESTERDAY G Beal Photograph Courtesy Sons of the Utah Pioneers 735 Visiting the Country Store, Pioneer Village, Salt Lake City, Utah, left to nght: Dr. Joel E. Ricks; Horace A. Sorensen, Managing Director of the Pioneer Village, explaining the treasure-trove of yesterday; Mrs. McKay; President David O. McKay; Mrs. Ricks. ANGING from the ceiling are hardware supplies, toast racks, tin pots and cups, and stove lid lifters. Also hanging from the ceiling on a spring rack are glass chimney lamps, from which customers chose the proper neck opening and style for their own homes. Along the top shelf of the store is a lending library, and below the counter are local newspapers and a magazine or two, for the customer who enjoys visiting and reading by the warm stove. Herbs and spices are preserved in tin boxes in the grocery section. A bag of sassafras bark rests on top of the tins, and a jar of nutmeg stands on the counter. Near the jar is a nutmeg grater, as usable today as in the old store yesterday. Practicing good business, the storekeeper offered community use of his egg scale, arch fitter, shoe button adjuster, and weighted pencil pointer. Mr. Wart's store, unentombed after twenty years and transplanted from Kamas to the Pioneer Village, resurrects authentically an aspect of back-country life that is vivid and remarkable for the daring and imagination of the merchant. 'The great range and variety of goods bespeak the enterprise and resourcefulness of the community servant of yesterday — the country general storekeeper.