[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Jerusalem | Author: Robinson]
[Jerusalem, City of Peace Christine H. Robinson]
Jerusalem, 
City  of  Peace 
Chiistine  H.  Robinson 
Member,  Adult  Planning  Committee  of  the  Church  Co-ordinating  Council 
THE  journey  from  Jericho  to  Jerusalem  up  the  steep,  winding  road 
through  the  Judean  Hills,  provides  a  soul-stirring,  never-to-be-for- 
gotten experience.  As  the  twenty-mile  long  road  approaches  the 
Holy  City,  each  bend  in  the  rocky,  rugged  hills  provides  a  short  but  almost 
breathtaking  view  of  the  city  with  its  ancient  walls,  yellow  limestone  build- 
ings, and  tall  cypress  trees  nestled  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains.  Nearer 
Jerusalem,  the  road  swings  around  one  of  the  final  bends  and  enters  the 
little  town  of  Bethany,  situated  on  the  slopes  of  the  Mount  of  Olives. 
This  was  the  home  of  Mary,  Martha,  and  Lazarus,  and  a  place  which  Jesus 
loved  and  where  he  so  often  stayed  with  his  friends  and  loved  ones.  Be- 
yond this  quaint  little  village,  spread  over  four  hills,  are  the  magnificent 
walls  and  much  of  the  imposing  Holy  City  of  Jerusalem. 
As  spectacular  and  impressive  as  the  city  is  today,  it  must  have  been 
even  more  beautiful  during  the  period  of  the  Savior's  ministry.  It  was  at 
Bethphage,  just  a  short  distance  up  and  around  the  hill  from  Bethany,  that 
Jesus,  only  a  few  days  before  his  crucifixion,  stopped  and  beheld  the  city 
in  all  its  splendor  ''and  wept  over  it"  (Luke  19:41).  Jesus  wept  perhaps 
not  only  because  of  the  beauty  of  the  city,  but  also  because  this  would  be 
one  of  the  last  times,  as  a  mortal  being,  he  would  see  it,  and  he  knew  how 
great  and  peaceful  Jerusalem  might  have  been  if  only  its  people  had 
accepted  his  teachings.  As  Jesus  pondered  the  condition  and  fate  of  the 
city,  Matthew  records  that  he  lamented,  ''O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou 
that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how 
often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth 
her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not!''  (Mt.  23:37). 
Jerusalem,  during  the  Savior's  ministry,  was  a  magnificent  and  im- 
portant city.  Only  a  short  time  earlier  Herod  had  beautified  it.  He  had 
erected  many  new  buildings  and  had  rebuilt  the  temple  and  the  walls, 
including  the  massive  golden  gates  leading  into  the  valley  of  Kedron.    His 
Page  589

objective  had  been  to  restore  Jerusalem  to  the  ancient  glory  and  splendor 
which  it  had  enjoyed  under  the  reign  of  Solomon. 
Less  than  six  miles  from  Jerusalem  is  the  little  town  of  Bethlehem. 
On  that  world-shaping  day,  some  2,000  years  ago,  Mary  and  Joseph  came 
there  to  the  home  of  their  ancestors  and  there  Jesus  was  born. 
On  the  outskirts  of  Bethlehem  are  the  shepherds'  fields  where  sheep 
were  brought  in  from  the  surrounding  grazing  areas  for  better  protection 
during  the  night.  It  was  there  (see  cover)  on  that  eventful  night  that 
shepherds,  tending  their  flocks,  received  the  wonderful  vision  announcing 
the  Savior's  birth  as  the  scriptures  record: 
And  there  were  in  the  same  country  shepherds  abiding  in  the  field,  keeping  watch 
over  their  flock  by  night. 
And,  lo,  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shown 
round  about  them:  and  they  were  sore  afraid. 
And  the  angel  said  unto  them,  Fear  not:  for,  behold,  I  bring  you  good  tidings  of 
great  joy,  which  shall  be  to  all  people. 
For  unto  you  is  born  this  day  in  the  City  of  David  a  Saviour,  which  is  Christ  the 
Lord  (Luke  2:8-11 ). 
T^ODAY,  a  hostile  border  separates  the  Arabs  from  the  Jews  and  cuts  off 
the  main  road  from  Jerusalem  to  Bethlehem.  Consequently,  the 
roundabout  distance  between  the  two  cities  is  much  greater  than  it  was 
during  the  Savior's  ministry.  Then,  undoubtedly,  he  must  have  walked 
many  times  the  approximate  six  miles  from  Jerusalem  to  the  city  of  his 
ancestors  and  of  his  birth. 
Despite  its  spectacular  physical  beauty,  during  the  time  of  the  Savior, 
Jerusalem  was  a  cosmopolitan,  wicked  city.  Jesus  foresaw  its  complete 
destruction  and  predicted  that  the  time  would  soon  come  when  the 
beautiful  temple  would  be  torn  down  with  not  one  stone  remaining  on  top 
of  another.  Yet,  it  was  at  Jerusalem  where  Jesus  accomplished  much  of 
his  mighty  work,  gave  many  of  his  great  teachings,  and  performed  many 
of  his  most  wonderful  miracles.  It  was  here  that  mothers  brought  to  him 
their  little  children  ''and  he  took  them  in  his  arms,  put  his  hands  upon 
them,  and  blessed  them"  (Mark  10:16).  He  said,  ''suffer  little  children 
to  come  unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not:  for  of  such  is  the  kingdom  of 
God"  (Mark  10:14).  In  Jerusalem  he  healed  the  sick,  caused  the  lame 
to  walk,  and  made  the  blind  to  see.  Here  he  exhibited  his  righteous 
indignation  when  he  cast  the  thieves  and  money-changers  out  of  the 
temple  and  proclaimed  that  his  father's  house  "shall  be  called  the  house 
of  prayer;  but  ye  have  made  it  a  den  of  thieves"  (Mt.  21:13). 
When  Jesus  taught  at  Jerusalem,  the  scheming  Pharisees,  hoping  to 
trap  him,  asked,  "Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law? 
Jesus  said  unto  him.  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  might, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great 
commandment.  And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbour  as  thyself"  (Mt.  22:35-39).  At  Jerusalem  Jesus  emphasized  the 
divine  importance  of  service  to  one  another,  saying,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have 
Page  590

,•*   ,i.r 
V'-^M 
*'i3^_-4I 
Color   transparency   by    Dr.    O.   Preston    Robinson 
The  Old  City  and  Wall  of  Jerusalem  as  seen  today. 
Color   transparency   by    Dr.    O.   Preston    Robinson 
Bethany,  near  Jerusalem,  near  the  spot  where  the  house  of  Mary,  Martha  and  Lazarus 
once  stood.

'■^-^H 
^T^N 
Color  transparency  by   Dr.   O.   Preston   Robinson 
A  view  of  part  of  Jerusalem  taken  from  the  Mount  of  Olives. 
The  Garden  of  Gethsemane  at  the  base  of  the  Mount  of  Olives. 
The  Church  of  the  Nations  is  at  the  entrance  to  the  garden. 
Color    transparency   by    Dr.    O.    Preston    Robii

Color  transparency  by   Dr.   O.   Preston   Robinson 
The  Garden  of  Gethsemane.    These  old  ohve  trees  are  said  to  be  over  2,000  years  old. 
,y<9f          *j. 
"  "* '  
,-^  y^^C^'^%m\  ft  rJr^' 
'«#     **^ 
Color   transparency   by   Dr.    O.   Preston    Robinson 
The  Mount  of  Olives  from  near  the  site  of  Bethphage.