[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 18 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Ree mrameaerarsneqie fir iar val fat woe fi ~ ie' Pee As BOUNTIFUL NORTH STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 15, 1962 Left to right: Alene Grundy as Margaret A. Cook; Zona Prusse as Phebe Ann Hawks; Beth Ivers as Sophia Marks; Barbara Houghton as Leonora Taylor; Shirley Woodhouse as Sophia Robinson; Kay Smedley as Philinda Merrick; Elder Edwin Jardine as John Taylor; LaVeral Smith as Elvira A. Coles; Beth Porter as Phebe M. Wheeler; Bishop William Stacey as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Velma Stacey as Emma Hale Smith; Nadine Nielson as Sarah M. Cleveland; Marvel Jardine as Eliza R. Snow; Beth Woodward as Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Ralph Thompson as Willard Richards; Lile Day as Desdemona Fulmer; Carol Thompson as Bathsheba W. Smith; Evelyn Parry, reader; Gerda Hansen as Sarah M. Kimball; Hettie Knight as Martha Knight; Sylvia Pack as Sophia Packard. Dora P. Webb, President, Bountiful North Stake Relief Society, reports that beautiful programs were printed for this occasion, and the sisters who represented the members of the first Relief Society were attired in costumes representative of that time. A chorus sang "Messengers of Mercy." A special tribute to Leah P. Chapman, who passed away recently, was printed on the programs, representing Sister Chapman as a sister who "loved Relief Society." Eunice Van Orden is president of Bountiful Fifth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors are Fawn Kizerian and Vera Holbrook. Page 603 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Boek.. Pe os 7; es OOS Re SOS 2 SLO hl SEP SES xe BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1962 President Marie G. Baldwin is standing at the left in the second row; chorister Barbara Larson and organist Marilyn Dye, are standing at the left in the front row. Sister Baldwin reports that all nine wards of Blackfoot Stake were represented in this chorus and the Singing Mothers were most appreciative of the opportunity to present the music for quarterly conference. I. E WORK YOU DG < I ~ & & a ~ VISITING TEACMERS ' 2. Nv. E) NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND VALENTINE DAY SOCIAL February 9, 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Esther Thalman, stake visiting teacher message leader; Stella Mason; Dee Rasmussen; Millie Martin; Bessie Miller; Lucy Nielson. Back row, standing, 'left to nght: Verona Gates; Bernece Mickelsen; Othella Herbert; Bernece Sorenson; Josephine Thompson; Virgie Nielson; Helen Noyes. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 605 Gladys O. Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports that a yalentine theme was followed in carrying out the arrangements for this lovely social: "We made a large valentine for the visiting teachers, which read: 'A Valentine For Yow, For the Wonderful Work You Do.' Our stake Singing Mothers presented the music, and a skit entitled 'Fruits of the Message' was presented by Brother and Sister Quentin Ottley and their family. Talks were given by Esther Thalman, and Clara Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society, who was a special guest speaker. One hundred and forty-five sisters attended the convention. We paid special honor to eighteen sisters who had a one hundred per cent attendance at their visiting teacher meetings for the past year." aes ose LON HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elder Harold R. Boyer, President, Monument Park Stake; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Velma N. Simonsen, former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Henrietta H. Young, President, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; May J. Dyer; Leone W. Doxey; Thelma S. Buchanan; Beverly J. Pond, President, Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society. Sister Young reports: ""The Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society held a birthday reception at their new chapel on March 17, 1962, honoring General President Belle S. Spafford; former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Velma N. Simonsen; Leone W. Doxey, recently appointed First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Primary Association; May J. Dyer, and Thelma S. Buchanan, to which all members of the Relief Society and their husbands and other stake members were mvited. Sister Simonsen, Sister Dyer, and Sister Buchanan are wives of mission presidents recently returned to the Twelfth Ward after presiding over Relief Society in missions of the Church. Sister Pond and her counselors did much advance planning to make this a lovely affair. It was held on a Saturday between the hours of five and seven P. M., and refreshments were served in the beautifully decorated Relief Society room. In carrying out the theme 'Relief Society Is the Key to the Good Life,' attractive key chains were given to all the sisters who attended." 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL SIXTH WARD WORK MEETING PROJECTS, December 1961 Ivy W. Richins, President, Bountiful Stake Relief Society, submits the following report from the Bountiful Sixth Ward: "The Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society has had outstanding accomplishments for their work meeting projects during the past year. At the meeting represented in the picture, eighty women were active in craft work. There was a class in knitting, crocheting, and embroidery; one in flower and grains arrangement, and one in making Christmas wreaths. Other groups made plastic poodles and stuffed toys. Three quilts were being quilted. The Sixth Ward always has a quilt on hand for beginners only, where the young women of the ward can be taught the art of quilting. Their motto is: 'We have something of interest for eve woman in the ward.' Mildred Patterson is work meeting leader, and Ruby M. Smedley is president of Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society." we 9 Pua bs > Maps 4 wo Ha ROSE PARK STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING MUSICALE, March 29, 1962 Front row, seated: Ruth J. Harrison, President, Rose Park Stake Relief Society, first on the right; Ruth Murphy, First Counselor, fifth from the night; Clea Fowler, Second Counselor, fifth from the left; Marilyn Mecham, chorister, second from the right; Ruth Pack, organist, third from the right. Vauna Moosman, Secretary-Treasurer, is standing tenth from the right in the second row. Sister Harrison reports: "The Singing Mothers of Rose Park Stake presented a most enjoyable spring musicale, March 29th. With a theme "There's Music in the Air,' each of the ten wards was featured in an individual number, and all 175 members of the combined choruses sang two selections. The group has 261 children and grandchildren. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 FRENCH-POLYNESIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, March 28, 1962 Standing in the picture is Ester Bennett, First Counselor in the French Polynesian Mission Relief Society, at the Hikueru Hao booth. The second tifaifai from the left sold for $110. Gabrielle Young, President, French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society held an all-mission bazaar on the 28th of March. It was a big day, and all of the branches had sent their articles to Papeete. This was to see if an all-mission bazaar would not be more successful than holding many bazaars in the individual islands. The exposition started at nine o'clock in the morning, and the sale was at six o'clock in the evening. Meals were served at noon and in the evening. "The small articles were woven hats, bags, mats, fans, carvings, doilies, clothing, pillows and pillowcases, grass skirts, and some very artistic shell vases. Fifty very beautiful tifaifai (bed covers, with applique or crazy-quilt patterns) were also sold. The basketball court was divided into booths, with the name of each island in front, so that the customers could see from which island they were buying the articles. We were very proud to display a tifaifai which had won first prize in the territory-wide contest last July, and also the one which had taken first place for originality of design. A highest price paid for a tifaifai at the bazaar went to Hao, Tuamotu Branch, or $110. "The day was very rewarding, and the sisters have never had such a successful sale. Tourists and people from all Tahiti were in attendance, and the decision was made then and there that the mission-wide bazaar would be an annual affair. The total receipts for the day exceeded $2,000, and the morale of the sisters was boosted one hundred per cent." I neni nS neon N DEPARTMEN THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 42 — "Engaged in a Good Cause" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 58:15-65 ) For First Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To show that obedience to the Lord's commandments involves working for the cause of Zion. Introduction N the year 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation designating Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, as the site for the city of Zion or the New Jerusalem. Hundreds of years before this the Lord had decreed that his holy city to which the faithful would come in the last days, would shine forth as a light to beckon earth's inhabitants to accept the gospel. 'This city will become a capital of the world government when the Savior comes to establish his kingdom at the time of the millennium. Although the saints were driven from the center place of Zion, their belief in the restoration of the gospel, and their own inability, at that time, to live the gospel as required, brought about the persecutions which drove them from Missouri. (See Lesson 41.) Page 610 Notwithstanding what happened in 1834 when our people were ejected from Missouri, the promises of the Lord concerning that land are still to be fulfilled. 'The leadership of this Church has always understood and taught that the New Jerusalem will become all that the Lord has said it would be. President George Q. Cannon, one of the apostles close to the events of Missouri, expressed the feelings of the saints concerning these matters. After twenty years in the West, he said: We talk about going back to build up the centre stake [place] of Zion; it is the burden of our daily prayers. The aspirations of thousands of the people ascend in the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth [hosts] in behalf of the redemption of Zion, and that the purposes of God may be forwarded, and that the time may soon come when the centre stake [place] of Zion shall be built up and the people be prepared to go back and inhabit that LESSON DEPARTMENT land. Why do we wish this? Because we anticipate when that day shall come that we will be that much nearer the day of triumph, the day when Jesus will come and reign among his Saints... We look forward to that land with indesctibable feelings, because it is the place where God has said His City shall be built. It is the land where Adam, the Ancient of Days, will gather his posterity again, and where the blessings of God will descend upon them... (Journal of Discourses, 11:336-337). Preparations must be made for the building of Zion as commanded. The Lord revealed in this revelation (Section 58) why the saints should go to Missouri, beginning in 1831 as well as in the future. (See Lesson 41.) What is necessary today to realize the blessings of building the City of Zion? 'This question is answered in this lesson. President Cannon said:.. We expect when that day shall come that we will be a very different people to what we are today. We will be prepared to commune with heavenly beings; at any rate, the preparation will be going on very rapidly for Jesus to be revealed. We expect that a society: will be organized there that will be a pattern of heavenly society, that when Jesus and the heavenly beings who come with him are revealed in the clouds of heaven, their feelings will not be shocked by the change, for a society will be organized on the earth whose members will be prepared through the revelations of God to meet and associate with them, if not on terms of perfect equality, at least with some degree of equality (Journal of Discourses, mt: 3377).
