[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
to  Luke  nine  and  sixty-one  and  read 
to  us."  And  this  is  what  Eliza  read: 
''And  another  also  said,  Lord,  I  will 
follow  thee;  but  let  me  first  go  bid 
them  farewell,  which  are  at  home 
at  my  house.  And  Jesus  said  unto 
him.  No  man,  having  put  his  hand 
to  the  plough,  and  looking  back,  is 
fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God." 
The  Word  had  been  consulted. 
If  it  took  each  hearer  of  that  Word 
to  make  his  personal  interpretation, 
it  also  took  his  personal  action  which 
followed  that  hearing.  This  was 
almost  the  only  time  in  each  life  of 
the  children  that  they  wanted  time 
and  privacy  and  strength  to  arrange 
their  hearts  and  minds  in  such  an 
order  that  an  accuser  in  later  years 
could  be  turned  aside  without  a  case 
against  them.  Their  earthly  mother 
had  shown  them  the  Word,  and 
they    believed.     The    sacrifice   was 
stated  as  if  meant  for  them  instead 
of  travelers  to  Jerusalem  in  the  year 
thirty- two  a.d.  The  reward  was  also 
assured,  and  they  believed  that,  too. 
One  by  one  they  looked  their 
mother  squarely  in  the  face.  That 
was  all  the  affirmative  vote  she 
needed.  All  were  very  quiet.  No 
reproach  was  heard.  It  was  not 
easy,  but  now  they  all  knew  that 
the  valley  and  not  the  Bend  was 
their  immediate  goal.  Now  the 
struggle  was  over,  the  tension  was 
broken  as  water  breaking  through 
the  headgate  of  a  dam.  If  tears  were 
mingled  with  the  flood,  they  were 
tears  of  triumph  and  not  remorse. 
As  hope  rises  eternally  to  lift  all  to 
ecstasy,  so  it  did  them.  Some  day, 
some  day,  maybe,  maybe,  we  can 
come  back  to  this  station  and  start 
out  for  the  Bend  and  reunion  and 
contentment.    We  shall,  we  shall. 
But  the  emigrant  made  no  prom- 
ise for  herself.  The  finality  of  her 
decision  precluded  the  hope  that 
she  could  retrace  her  footsteps  to 
this  bitter  day  to  start  out  to  find 
her  parents.  Her  strength  lay  in 
forsaking,  in  renouncing  the  idea  as 
a  permanent  thing.  To  consider  that 
even  in  old  age  she  should  be  so 
near  this  sentimental  goal,  was  to 
make  her  half  defeated  at  this  mo- 
ment. Forever  behind  her  was  this 
day,  this  trembling  of  the  hand, 
this  possibility  of  defeat.  If  time 
and  strength  were  pitted  against 
each  other  again,  she  would  know 
what  to  do,  and  that  without  the 
great  battle  from  within.  The  West 
and  not  the  Bend  was  to  be  the 
daily  cry.  The  Bend  was  to  be 
thought  of  less  and  less,  thus  to 
hurt  less  acutely,  thus  to  become  a 
chapter    of   life    entitled   Lost,    or