[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Sunday | Author: Anderson]
[Sunday Morning on Temple Hill Mabel Luke Anderson]
Sunday  Morning 
As  I  occasionally  do  on  Fast  Sunday  morning,  when  I  have  no  hurried 
preparations  for  breakfast  and  dinner  before  going  to  Sunday  School,  I 
took  an  early  walk  to  the  Manti  Temple. 
Reaching  the  top  of  the  hill,  I  looked  down  on  my  town,  a  pioneer 
town  with  great  rural  charm.  I  knew  the  dear  folks  who  lived  in  the  homes 
set  among  the  trees,  and  I  was  glad  they  were  my  neighbors  and  friends. 
It  was  a  lovely  morning.  The  sky  was  a  powder  blue,  with  soft  wispy 
islands  of  clouds.  The  very  air  seemed  hushed  and  still.  Summer  was 
just  on  the  threshold.  I  wandered  around  the  flower-girt  temple.  The 
dew  had  not  quite  vanished  from  the  velvety  petals.  The  colorful  beauty 
of  the  flower  beds  brought  a  lump  to  my  throat.  Surely  a  flower  is  a 
miracle.    The  lines  from  Lowell  came  to  mind: 
Every  clod  feels  a  stir  of  might, 
An  instinct  within  it  that  reaches  and  towers, 
And,  groping  bhndly  above  it  for  light, 
Climbs  to  a  soul  in  grass  and  flowers. 
Each  flower  seemed  to  whisper  of  hope  and  faith  and  love.  A  gentle 
breeze  wafted  the  mingled  perfume  of  a  dozen  scents.  There  was  an 
occasional  burst  of  bird  song,  the  droning  of  the  bees,  and  the  silken- 
winged  butterflies  flitted  in  and  out  of  the  flowers  like  myriads  of  vari- 
colored jewels. 
The  smooth  clipped  lawns  sloped  down  to  the  cemetery,  where  rows 
of  pines  stood  like  stately  sentinels  guarding  that  silent  city.  The  gentle 
countryside  stretched  away  in  a  patchwork  panorama  of  fields,  with  their 
green  sheen  giving  promise  of  a  harvest  to  come,  of  pastures  dappled  with 
placid  cattle  and  sheep  grazing  in  the  lush  grass,  to  the  changeless  cedar- 
studded  hills  for  a  backdrop. 
Here  was  surely  an  oasis  of  peace.  Worldly  cares  had  been  left  at  the 
foot  of  the  hill.  It  was  so  quiet  that  I  felt  that  truly  here  one  could 
''Be  still,  and  know  that  I  am  God."  Surely  in  this  stillness  one  could 
renew  one's  strength  and  find  poise  and  peace  and  wisdom. 
I  sat  down  on  a  low  wall  to  rest  in  this  quiet  place,  in  the  shadow  of 
this  sacred  edifice,  and  felt  a  precious  sereneness  in  an  age  when  serenity 
is  so  rare.  I  felt  as  if  the  earth  had  stopped  for  a  minute,  and  that  I  was 
suspended  in  a  spot  close  to  heaven.

pn  Temple  Hill 
Mabel  Luke  Anderson 
I  gazed  up  at  the  spires  and  felt  a  mystic  tie  with  my  ancestors  who 
had  seemed  so  near  to  me  as  I  had  performed  the  saving  ordinances  for 
them  in  that  holy  house.    This  indeed  was  cherished  ground. 
Always  I  am  awed  at  the  dignity  and  sublimity  of  the  temple  of  en- 
during stone  standing  so  permanent  and  protectingly  above  our  valley. 
It  is  a  legacy  to  us  from  those  who  have  lived  before,  a  monument  to  the 
faith  and  integrity,  love  and  sacrifice  of  its  pioneers.  Surely  they  built 
well,  structures  of  everlasting  beauty. 
For  many  summers  I  have  had  such  a  glorious  privilege  of  spending 
much  time  on  this  sacred  hill  as  a  guide  to  meet  and  greet  visitors,  telling 
them  the  sweet  gospel  story,  telling  them  of  our  pioneers  and  the  building 
of  the  temple,  stories  which  warm  my  heart,  and  perhaps  I  am  even  guilty 
of  a  little  possessiveness.  I  have  felt  a  corresponding  warmth  in  those  vis- 
itors, a  sincere  interest,  and  a  tremendous  appreciation  and  admiration  for 
our  people,  our  way  of  life,  and  our  temple  which  is  a  symbol  of  the  con- 
tinuity of  the  gospel,  of  our  faith  in  God.  I  silently  pray  on  each  of  these 
occasions  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  that  appreciation.  I  recalled  these 
experiences  as  I  sat  there  that  Sunday  morning. 
And  in  this  hour  on  the  hill,  in  the  celestial  silence,  I  felt  a  spiritual 
uplift,  I  felt  a  little  cleaner,  more  attuned  with  the  spirit  of  the  Sabbath. 
I  certainly  should  be  closer  to  the  Lord  all  day,  all  week,  because  I  was 
on  a  hallowed  spot  on  a  hallowed  day. 
As  I  walked  back  down  the  hill  to  my  home,  the  town  was  awakening 
to  activity.  As  I  saw  the  menfolk  leave  one  house  after  another  for  Priest- 
hood meeting,  they  appeared  to  me  truly  men  bent  on  doing  God's  work; 
mothers  who  stood  in  doorways  or  porches  to  see  them  off,  good  women. 
Later,  as  I  walked  to  our  ward  meetinghouse,  the  scrubbed,  shining 
faces  and  brushed,  glistening  hair  of  the  little  boys  and  girls  going 
to  Sunday  School,  attired  in  their  Sunday  best,  thrilled  me.  I  am  sure 
Jesus  was  smiling  on  them.  As  we  stood  at  a  street  crossing,  to  have  one 
tiny  girl  trustingly  put  her  hand  in  mine,  confident  I  would  guide  her 
safely  across  the  street,  was  heartwarming  and  made  me  aware  of  the  one- 
ness of  our  ward  family  in  the  gospel. 
With  Browning,  I  could  echo  "God's  in  his  heaven,"  and  surely  on  a 
day  like  this,  in  a  place  like  this,  there  is  the  world's  surest  promise  of 
eternal  peace.