[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: My | Author: Luce]
Vacation 'by-the-day Betty G. Spencer GEVERAL years ago, we discovered a wonderful new way to vacation. My husband's vacation was rescheduled for late fall, meaning no vacation for the children unless we could think of a new way to vacation. There was a new way — vacation-by-the-day! Rather hesitantly, we planned several short trips. 'To our surprise, we found our family enjoyed these one-day trips more than we had some of our lengthy vacations. Discoveries were abundant! Visits to the State Capitol, a pioneer fort, a pony express way station, a secluded mountain lake, were the beginning. Before the summer was over, we found we were all looking forward to the next trip. Vacation-by-the-day proved to be an inexpensive, interesting way to acquaint our family with the places of interest around us. Everyone helped in planning. Without suggestions from us, our children were seen consulting road maps, history books, and an ancient atlas, seeking new destinations. Occasionally, we would make an overnight trip, but usually left home early in the morning and returned that evening. Lunches, packed at home to save expense, were eaten at a roadside table or in a quiet park. The new way to vacation provided an unexpected bonus when school began. Our fourth-grader found that he would be studying the history of our State.

[My Shadow Celia Larsen Luce]

Events and locations meant much more to him, because he had visited many of the places described in the text. This year, we hope to take a long out-of-State trip, but we will continue our favorite, year-around-way to vacation — vacation-by-the-day! Page 565 - Synopsis: » Marian Motgan, a widow and mother-of sixchildren, makes plans to take _ her family to spend the summer at a min- _ ing claim in Montana to do assessment work. Charles Neering, a asked her to stay in town,: ARIAN looked out the train M window. The countryside had taken on a translucent shade of green in the early dawn, -and the sky was a silver and pink sea. She couldn't remember when _ she had taken time to look at the sky last. She stretched and shifted jill to a new position, then looked at her children around her. The twins and Tommy on the seat opposite were still asleep, heads bobchapter 2. Shistey aes _—*s wi? =, her to change around." most of the passengers. Jim stretched Wi lderness bing 'froih side to side with the motion of the train. "Want me to hold Jill awhile Mom?" Sue asked. "Thanks, dear, but it might we Now the train was slowing downy and the conductor announced, "Next stop, Rushville." The change of motion awakened. His long legs as though he were un familiar with their new length. Looked over at his mother. And § "Did he say Rushville?" ~ "Yes," Marian answered, reachi for her purse and sweater. "Wa > = if para' GF THe WILDERNESS "~ Jim, mh pinset ick es stew pale Kee tra ea. ~~ We 7 pu the eae. Foni," Sue said. Ry Se "The store at the station will have "Fay "ae. Hing," Jim promised. — ta breakfast all prepared,' " ao ounced Marian, with an air, of Ti poh. She had anticipatéd their. Mmergency—breakfast,:- % As they made tleiz.. Way long the =~ 2, stepping over protruding feet ¥&> uggage, Marian noticed they. He only ones getting off. Jim > to step down onto th platform. He walked over. N who was taking their gags from someone on a ' Sam?" Jim asked him. Straightened up and hand at the conductor. St e train started to pull, he took off his hat, and asia him.