[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: Out of | Author: Thulin]
[Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 2 Shirley Thulin]

Something wears out, and you just fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay. You've heard the poem about the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, haven't you, Sister Jones?" "Sister Fletcher," said that good lady, also probably for the twentieth time, "you know I'm not Sister Jones, Grandma Feeney." "Guess I just forgot," said Grandma Feeney. "But I do remember the 'Wonderful One Hoss Shay.' I could still say the whole thing off by heart if a body was to ask me." She turned faded blue eyes on Molly as she came through the bedroom door. "You've heard of the "Won- COMPANY BEST derful One Hoss Shay,' haven't you, Sister Molly Andrews?" "At least she remembers your name," whispered Sister Fletcher. "Why, come to think of it," Molly said to Grandma Feeney, "I don't believe I've heard that poem for a long time. [I'll let you recite it for me just as soon as I say goodbye to Sister Fletcher here. I'll be right back." "Honest to goodness," whispered Sister Fletcher, as she gathered up her belongings in the small parlor, "sometimes I just want to scream. I think she just plagues me for the joy of it." "Oh, I'd probably be the same way," said Molly, "if I had to be there on that bed day and night and didn't have any family to worry about me." Sister Fletcher smiled. "You have a good heart, Molly. Well, Pll turn her over to you." She threw a sweater over her shoulders, picked up her purse and knitting, bade Molly goodbye, and left. "Grandma Feeney," said Molly, going back into the bedroom, "will you recite that poem for me now?" THE faded eyes sparkled a little. "Aw," said Grandma Feeney, "you know I just do that to bother some of the ladies a little. Some of them can hardly wait for their time here to get over with, and I guess I just tease them a little for entertainment. Just to get their dander up, I guess." "My nine-year-old twins do the same thing to me sometimes." "All nght, Molly Andrews, I know what you're trying to say to me," said Grandma Feeney. "Sure you do," answered Molly. 561 "And you want to know something? You're right nice company when you want to be." Grandma Feeney sighed. "It's just that I get so tired of lying here all the time. I have worked so hard most of my life, and it seems like a big waste of time to lie here. I'm just an old woman with nothing left to enjoy." "You're a woman who has earned a rest," said Molly. "Now, since you've already had your breakfast, well change your bedclothes and comb your hair, then maybe Ill read to you if you'll be good." She looked around the little bedroom. "Where is it you keep your sheets?" Grandma Feeney indicated a large cedar chest standing in the corner. "That was my hope chest," she said proudly. "I had it filled to the brim with pretty things when I married my Tom. I keep my sheets in there so they'll smell nice." "All right," said Molly, opening up the big chest. "I'll just dig some out, and we'll have you all changed in a jiffy." In the chest she found a variety of rough and rather ragged sheets. "These have certainly seen better days," she said, holding one of them up. "Just like me," said Grandma Feeney. "They're plenty good for mie." "Tll see if I can find some in better shape," said Molly, digging deep into the chest. Near the bottom, she came upon several pairs of pillowcases neatly folded. Lifting them out, she saw they were all delicately embroidered and resplendent with frothy crocheted edgings. She dug into the chest again and came up with four 562 sheets, also handsomely decorated with crocheted edgings. '"CARANDMA Feeney," she said, "IT struck a real gold mine here." She held up the prettiest of the sheets, one which had forget-menots embroidered on its border, next to a wide crocheted edge. "This is what we'll put on your bed today." "No, we won't," exclaimed Grandma Feeney. "I wouldn't think of it. Those are my company best. I'm not going to use them." "Whom are you expecting for company, the President of the United States?" asked Molly. A tiny memory of Lois saying exactly the same thing that morning fluttered across her mind. "Those are my trousseau things," said Grandma Feeney, "and I've kept them all these years. I am not going to use them now. When I think of all the work I put in on those things when I was a young girl waiting for Tom to come back from his mission, my fingers just ache. Annie Olsen had a bigger trousseau when she married Ed Johnson, but everybody in town said I had the prettiest. And I don't aim to use those things now." "Good gracious, Grandma Feeney, haven't you used them at_ all?" "No, sirree,' the old lady said with spirit. "That nice material wasn't so easy to get in those days. Unbleached muslin sheets were plenty good for the family to use, and these were for company best." The frail hands plucked at the delicate embroidery. "I guess we never did get much company." "Well, then, we'll just pretend that you're company, and we'll use them right now." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Despite the old woman's protests, Molly expertly changed the sheets, lifting the thin body as she had been taught in the home nursing course. When she had finished, she found the prettiest of the pillowcases, a pair with appliqued pansies on the edge. "Not those,' pleaded Grandma Feeney, "why those were Tom's favorites. You never saw a man for admiring nice things like Tom did. And Ellie Mae... You know, that was my girl that died... She used to want to sleep on them. She said it would be like sleeping in a pansy bed. You know how romantic young girls are.", "TI know," said Molly, thought fully. "You put them right back in that chest, Molly Andrews." "Nonsense," said Molly, "I'm going to put them on your pillows, and while you lie on them you can think back about when you were young and sewing on them and how much you loved your Tom." Grandma Feeney's eyes softened. "T did those while Tom was on his mission. I used to write him letters about the nice things we would have in our home when we got married. And I was true to him all the while he was away, Molly Andrews. I never even looked at another young man." She chuckled. "Although Gus Horner was always asking me to go to dances with him. Guess that's hard to imagine, looking at me now, isn't it?" "You just let me get your hair combed now, Grandma Feeney," said Molly, bustling about looking for a hairbrush, "and you'll look just as young and pretty as you did COMPANY BEST then. Why, you'll look so nice that when Dr. Roberts comes this afternoon he'll say, "What is a beautiful young gitl like you doing lying around like this?' " Grandma Feeney laughed. "I feel like a queen lying here in my very best sheets with this old head on my prettiest pillowcases. Just like a queen." By the time Molly had finished brushing her hair, she was nodding sleepily. "Molly Andrews," she said drowsily, taking Molly's hand, "I want you to have all my nice things in that chest when I go. I haven't got chick nor child to leave them to, and you're the only person I would want to have them. After the work ] put in and all, I don't want them handed out to just anybody. I want you to take them." Molly stroked the old woman's forehead gently. "Why, thank you, Grandma Feeney. I don't know when anyone's done anything so nice to me." "Imagine me sleeping in my company best sheets," smiled Grandma Feeney. "A body forgets how nice it feels. I sure wish now I had let Ellie Mae sleep on these cases. Like sleeping in a pansy bed, she used to say." The drooping eyes closed, and Molly tiptoed from the room. That evening after Dr. Roberts had been there and pronounced Grandma Feeney better than she had been for days, and Sister Sanford had come to stay the night, Molly said goodbye to the invalid. As she reached down to kiss the withered cheek, Grandma Feeney pulled her close and whispered in her ear. "You know what, Molly 563 Andrews," she said, "I feel like a million dollars here in my pretty things. Sister Sanford won't even know me, Ill be so nice to her tonight. I just want to thank you." Molly squeezed Grandma Feeney's hand. "And I want to thank you." "IT didn't do anything for you. What are you thanking me for?" "For more than you _ know," smiled Molly. "Goodbye now." OLLY walked fast on her way home. She wanted to get there before the family started eating dinner. Sometimes, she thought to herself as she sped along, sometimes a person needs a house to fall on her before she can see something clearly. Thinking this, she walked a little faster. Lois was making gravy when Molly burst into the house. "Lois," She called almost before she was through the door, "we're going to have filet mignon tonight." Lois stopped stirring the gravy and looked at her mother, startled. "We're going to what?" "You scoot in the dining room and gather up all those old dishes off the table, while I get down the good china. We're going to eat hamburger in style tonight." Lois peered closely at her. "Mother, are you all right?" she asked. "Tm a lot better than I was this morning," said Molly. "After you gather up the old dishes, you can get out the best silverware." Lois stared. "But you said this morming I couldn't use the good things." "One of these days," said Molly, climbing up to the high cupboard where the best dishes were kept, 564 "we'll all fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, and then what good will pretty dishes that have never been used be?" Lois shook her head. "Mother, are you really sure you're all right? Are you sure you want to use the company best dishes?'" "Correction, my dear daughter," said Molly. "They are family best dishes from now on. After all, we won't be entertaining the President of the United States very often, and who is more important to us than our very own family, anyway?" From her high perch she smiled down at Lois' still bewildered young face. "Someday," she said, "I'll tell you all about the joy that went into getting these dishes, one by one, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 and how I had to put off buying the soup tureen one winter so I could buy you a snowsuit. There are lots of stories that go with these dishes, and I'll tell them to you when we use them. We won't use them every day, or we'd get tired of them, just as we get tired of our old dishes. But from now on we're going to use them for all kinds of special occasions, like when my very sweet and lovely daughter cooks hamburger for the family and wants it to taste like filet mignon."