[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cutler]
WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part II) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. ET us start this discussion by having our hidden panel* give a brief review of our Family Values Test. Questions for the panel: 1. What do we mean by Latter-day Saint family values? 2. Why should homemakers measure their values? 3. How can the family values test be a starting point for setting family goals? 4. Give practical ideas about ways in which family values are learned. Our Latter-day Saint family values are learned; they are not inherited. 'They become a part of each. Day's activities and a part of the life of each family member. They build within us spiritual strength, morality, human dignity, creativeness, inventiveness, productivity, and satisfying family living. Through these values we can become an example to the rest of the world. We must know our values before we set our goals. See how this works: if health is important to you, but you cannot answer "yes" to all these items about health that are listed on the Family Values Test, then these items may become your goals. Likewise, you will find other goals as you examine the ten values on the test. The home manager, while having all the major family values in mind, can make a priority listing of goals. She will make progress faster if she concentrates on one goal at a time. She may decide that her family should be healthier and happier, so this week she will do her utmost to make mealtime the highlight in each dav's experience. If she concentrates on this, she will find that planning meals for the week, shopping for the week, and organizing her work so that much of the preparation is done ahead of time, will free her to freshen up before sitting *Assigned panel members are seated in the audience rather than as a group around the table. As the leader asks a question, the assigned "hidden" panel member rises and comments. Another panel member in another part of the room follows quickly. Nonpanel members may join in after the main points have been considered. Page 617 618 down to the table, and she will have some moments to think about pleasant table talk to enrich each meal experience. Mastering all of these skills will take more than a week, perhaps more than a year, but if she concentrates on them long enough to work out a system with all the family co-operating, she will gradually develop a routine that will be second nature to her and her family. The new goal might grow out of her need for greater convenience in preparing meals. One homemaker found that her cupboards were filled with gadgets that she seldom used, and those she used most were not conveniently located. She put everything from her kitchen cupboards on the back porch. As she needed an item, she would bring it in and put it in the place where she used it. By the end of the week she still had most of the items on the back porch! 'Those that she had brought in helped her to work out a more convenient way of storing everyday equipment, and the seldom-used items were put away from the main working area. She selected some compact work centers for specific jobs, where the much-used equipment found its new home. The sink center was the place for cleaning vegetables and other foods, and for washing dishes, so the cuoking tools and equipment used first at the sink were stored there. She arranged for more counter space on each side of the sink by bringing up an old table from the basement; she planned for garbage disposal under the sink; and provided places for dish-washing equipment and supplies, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 for all of the foods used at the sink first. Her dishes were put into the cupboard at the left of the sink because she washed them from right to left. When she had finished this one job, she had taken an important step in organizing her home by having everything at the sink that was used there first. Then she started on the cooking center. Since this is the place where food is cooked and made ready for serving, she decided to store everything used first at the range in that place.: This included pans, cooking kettles, lids, and serving dishes and tools. Nearby were the cereals, noodles, and seasonings. Her husband helped her with the third center, for mixing and food preparation. This is the area where all foods are prepared for cooking, chilling, or freezing. She located this work area between the sink and the refrigerator and was able to get three feet of counter space on two different levels, one for "stand-up" work and one for "sit-down" jobs. All of the foods, cooking tools, and equipment used first at this place were stored there. Baking tins, casseroles, packaged and canned foods, as well as mixing tools and equipment, had a special place. The simple task of organizing the kitchen cupboards caused _ this homemaker to send for information about kitchen planning which she was able to get from the extension service and the local library. Her enthusiasm spread to other members of her family. 'They were soon helping her in getting a smoother production line for the preparation of food and in making the kitchen a more attractive and pleasant place I LESSON DEPARTMENT in which to work. A space at the end of the kitchen was provided for children's play; the walls were painted and a new light fixture was put in the ceiling; better ventilation was provided, the wiring was checked to make sure that electrical equipment would be safe to use. 'There were comfortable working heights for standing and for sitting, and all of this started from trying to figure out where to put the utensils that are used first at each of the three major kitchen centers. The results were a place for everything and everything could now be easily kept in its place. 619 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the advantages of an orderly home. 2. What can be done to organize dresser drawers and closets? Exhibit some box dividers and other storage items that will improve organization. 3. Discuss the advantages of having duplicate cleaning supplies in different parts of the house, such as in the bathroom, kitchen, and laundry area. 4. Give suggestions for storage of a. Towels, soap, and other needed items in the bathroom. B. Detergents and other items needed in doing the family laundry. C. Children's toys. LITERATURE America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 34 — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495). For Third Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. I was not until 1890, almost thirty years after his death, that Thoreau was truly evaluated in print, by Henry S. Salt, significantly an English biographer. Until well into the twentieth century the majority of his fellow Americans felt him to be an eccentric troublemaker, who, although he had written some nice nature-pieces, predominantly made his readers dissatisfied; therefore he was to be avoided. Although Thoreau's admirers wrote tributes to his memory, they could not detach themselves sufficiently from Victorian complacency and materialism to realize that while their beliefs and culture patterns 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 A Perry Picture THOREAU'S HOME, CONCORD, MASSACHUSETTS were crumbling, Thoreau's stern denunciations of worldly wealth and group cowardice were gradually being read by more people everywhere. Thoreau, Craftsman Many have been attracted to Thoreau by his idealism, perhaps stated the most purely in "Higher Laws," a chapter in Walden: Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails (page 223). Defining all sensuality as but one gross appetite yielded to in various forms, Thoreau likewise defines all purity as one; thus all forms of purity are but variants of chastity, which is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open.... If you would be chaste, you must be temperate.... Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome. What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer than a heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more religious?...... Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them (Ibid., pp. 224-225). Many have gradually come to esteem 'Thoreau's contribution to their own lives, for honestly telling them the price they must pay if they are to advance toward their ideals. He shows them how — first of all in I LESSON DEPARTMENT his own personal life, then by writing them his method, by giving them of himself in an_ integrity of thought, deed, and word. The writing which resulted from this integration of the author and _ his thought produces sentences packed with power, as exemplified by the following excerpts from the chapter "Conclusion" in Walden.... If you would learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs of all nations... Obey the precept of the old philosopher, and Explore thyself.... If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple-tree or an oak. No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well.... Any truth is better than make-believe.... Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode.... The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any.... Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society.... It is life near the bone where it is sweetest.... Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul. Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth (page 331). Such meaty prose exemplifies the uniqueness of genius; these sentences are as individual and as memorable as Thoreau himself. 'They are the man. Others through time have expressed similar ideas, nor has 621 Thoreau a monopoly on integrity, rare indeed though it may be. But it is his sentences which are his own, embracing and quickening all with carefully chosen words. Thus Thoreau attained perennial youth by creating immortal sentences, mirrors of his very self. These he recorded in his journals, polishing, reordering, condensing them later into his lectures and books. And, like everything else about him, Thoreau's theory of composition was uncompromising and noble; the hard, muscular sentences which give his pages their sustained intensity prove how thoroughly he applied his own critical principles of how to write. Some of his statements follow: 1. The one great rule of composition — and if I were a professor of rhetoric, I should insist on this — is to speak the truth. This first, this second, this third: pebbles in your mouth or not. 2. A sentence should read as if its author, had he held a plow instead of a pen, could have drawn a furrow deep and straight to the end. 3. Good writing is conversation folded many times thick. 4. It is the height of art that, on first perusal, plain common sense should appear; on the second, severe truth; third, beauty; and having these warrants for its depth and reality, one may then enjoy the beauty for evermore. Even the sentences which state his theories are themselves "rooted in fact and experience." They ring true when dropped on hard ground. Thoreau's Economics Although Thoreau had a keen sense of humor, he never played at life, which for him was far too serious an affair to be treated lightly. 622 True son of the Puritans that he was, Thoreau in deep moral earnestness felt that the great goal of mortality was to achieve here and now the greatest joy in living fully the precious gift of life. And the best life he considered to be attainable only through self-discipline and education, completely free of any bondage or self-slavery which might violate the most precious freedoms guaranteed to man under the laws of a most benevolent Nature.