[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Poem | Title: Supplication| Author: Catherine B. Bowles]
Supplication 
Catherine  B.  Bowles 
Give  me  strength  to  fight  life's  battle. 
Strength  to  help  another's  need, 
Strength  to  frustrate  all  temptation. 
And  the  hungry  hearts  to  feed; 
Strength  to  help  the  mind  refuse 
All  the  dross  and  keep  the  gold. 
Strength  to  live  each  day  atoning 
That  I  may  live  within  his  fold.

SOCIAL  SCIENCE      Divine  Law  and  Church  Government 
The  Foundation  of  Church  Government 
Lesson  2  —  Divine  Law  and  Human  Welfare 
Elder  Ariel  S.  BaJJif 
For  Fourth  Meeting,  November  1962 
Objective:  To  make  clear  that  divine  law  was  made  for  the  benefit  and  welfare  of 
God's  children. 
w E  have  discussed  in  Lesson  1 
how,  through  his  Son,  God 
established  divine  law  on  earth  by 
which  man  can  attain  the  full  pur- 
pose of  his  creation.  Revelation 
has  provided  the  pattern  of  human 
conduct  essential  to  man's  perfec- 
tion. The  scriptures  contain  evi- 
dence to  the  effect  that  every  part 
of  the  creation  by  the  Lord  was  for 
the  elevation  and  welfare  of  human- 
ity. 
From  sacred  literature  we  learn 
that  God,  through  his  Son,  created 
everything  upon  the  earth  —  the 
plants  of  every  variety,  all  things 
that  live  in  the  water,  all  life  that 
lives  upon  the  earth  and  in  the  air. 
".  .  .  and  I,  God,  saw  that  all  these 
things  were  good"  (Moses  2:25). 
Then  God  said  to  his  Only  Begot- 
ten, "...  Let  us  make  man  in  our 
image,  after  our  likeness;  and  it  was 
so.  .  ."  (Moses  2:26). 
Then  God  gave  ''them"  (male 
and  female)  dominion  over  all  of 
his  creations.  ''And  I,  God,  blessed 
them,  and  said  unto  them:  Be  fruit- 
ful, and  multiply,  and  replenish  the 
earth,  and  subdue  it,  and  have  do- 
minion over  the  fish  of  the  sea,  and 
over  the  fowl  of  the  air,  and  over 
every  living  thing  that  moveth  upon 
the  earth"  (Moses  2:28). 
The  creation  was  accomplished  by 
divine  law  and  for  the  benefit  of 
man.  "And  out  of  the  ground  made 
I,  the  Lord  God,  to  grow  every  tree, 
naturally,  that  is  pleasant  to  the 
sight  of  man;  and  man  could  behold 
it  .  .  ."  (Moses  3:9).  God  brought 
all  living  things  to  Adam  to  be 
named.  He  placed  "them"  in  the 
garden  where  all  the  useful  and  love- 
ly products  of  creation  were  in 
abundance  for  their  use,  restricting 
only  the  eating  of  the  fruit  of  the 
tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil, 
but  even  in  this  allowing  them  the 
privilege  of  choice.  After  their  de- 
cision to  eat  of  the  fruit,  thus  de- 
parting from  divine  counsel,  they 
were  face  to  face  with  the  great 
opportunity  to  subdue  the  earth  and 
to  have  dominion  over  it.  But  con- 
quering the  earth  was  not  the  major 
objective  of  the  creation  of  man. 
Conquering  himself  was  his  great- 
est challenge.  This  was  to  be  ac- 
complished with  directions  fur- 
nished through  divine  law. 
In  the  Image  oi  God 
It  is  quite  common  for  us  to  say 
Page  625

626  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1962 
''the  boy  is  the  image  of  his  father"  ties  of  his  Priesthood  calHngs,  he 
meaning    his    physical    appearance,  can  continue  his  progression  toward 
When  the  scripture  quotes  the  Sav-  the  power  of  Godhood.  The  Priest- 
ior  as  saying  ''he  that  hath  seen  me  hood  is  the  power  by  which  worlds 
hath  seen  the  Father"  our  thoughts  were  and  are  created,  that  is,  organ- 
deal    basically    with    the    physical  ized    and    brought    into    a    related 
image.    But  the  statement  in  Gen-  order.    The  Priesthood,  therefore,  is 
esis  1:27,  "So  God  created  man  in  a  creative  force  entrusted  to  man  in 
his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  increasing  proportions  as  his  prog- 
created  he  him;  male  and  female  ress  in  righteousness  increases.   (3) 
created  he  them,"  has  a  meaning  of  God  is  love.    Jesus  said  the  first  and 
far    greater    significance    than    the  great  commandment  is  to  love  God, 
physical    likeness    to    the    Father,  "And   the   second   is  like   unto  it, 
though  this  feature  is  very  true.    "In  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
the  image  of  God"  must  surely  have  thyself.     On  these  two  command- 
reference,  in  some  degree,  to  all  of  ments   hang  all    the  law   and    the 
the  characteristics  and  attributes  of  prophets"    (Matt.    22:39-40).     We 
God  the  Eternal  Father.  have  also  been  taught  that  we  can- 
Some  of  God's  characteristics  and  not  love  God  whom  we  have  never 
attributes  are:    (1)    God  knows  all  seen  if  we  cannot  love  our  fellow 
things  concerning  his  creations.    To  men  with  whom  we  associate  daily, 
man  has  been  given  the  power  to  Love  is  a  most  powerful  force  in  the 
acquire  knowledge,  to  do  reflective  universe.     It  is  the  only  force  that 
thinking,  and,  through  the  processes  can  bring  peace  to  the  world.    No 
of  evaluation  and  reasoning,  make  atom  or  hydrogen  bomb  is  powerful 
decisions,  choices,  and  selections  in  enough  to  bring  peace  to  mankind, 
dealing  with  the  problems  of  living.  Bombs    produce   fear,   hatred,   and 
Thus,  through  experience  and  study,  prejudice.    Love  of  God  and  fellow 
man     may     progress     toward     "all  men  is  the  only  means  of  touching 
knowledge."    Joseph  Smith  tells  us  the  hearts  of  people  so   they  can 
that  "the  mind  or  the  intelligence  live  together  in  peace.  (4)  Still  an- 
which    man    possesses    is    co-equal  other  divine  attribute  included,  cer- 
[co-eternal]     with     God     himself"  tainly,    "in   the  image  of  God"   is 
{Teachings  oi  the  Prophet  Joseph  spirituality.     It  has  to  do  with  the 
Smith,  page  353).    Mortal  life  is  to  operation  of  the  divine  influence  in 
provide  a  training  ground  for  the  de-  the  everyday  life  of  an  individual, 
velopment  of  this  intelligence.    The  Spirituality  is  the  degree  of  influence 
rules    governing    this    development  of  the  spirit  of  God  that  is  in  the 
are  the  divine  revelations  God  has  heart. 
given^  (2)  God  has  all  power.    To  ^^^^  ^^.^          ^^.^^  ^^^  ^-^-^^^ 
man  has  been  delegated  the  power  y^            ^^^ 
to  act  m  the  name  of  God  as  his  ,       .    i                  v.         j    i, 
representative   on    earth.     As   man  tude  of  the  personality  and  charac- 
proves  himself  worthy,   the  Priest-  ter  of  God,  we  may  conclude  that 
hood  is  conferred   upon  him.     As  the  image  of  God  referred  to  in  the 
he  increases  in  knowledge  and  per-  creation  of  man  includes  not  only 
forms  with  honor  the  responsibili-  the  physical  likeness  but  a  potential