[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
COMPANY  BEST 
563 
then.  Why,  you'll  look  so  nice  that 
when  Dr.  Roberts  comes  this  after- 
noon he'll  say,  'What  is  a  beautiful 
young  girl  like  you  doing  lying 
around  like  this?'  " 
Grandma  Feeney  laughed.  *'I  feel 
like  a  queen  lying  here  in  my  very 
best  sheets  with  this  old  head  on 
my  prettiest  pillowcases.  Just  like 
a  queen." 
By  the  time  Molly  had  finished 
brushing  her  hair,  she  was  nodding 
sleepily. 
''Molly  Andrews/'  she  said  drow- 
sily, taking  Molly's  hand,  "I  want 
you  to  have  all  my  nice  things  in 
that  chest  when  I  go.  I  haven't  got 
chick  nor  child  to  leave  them  to, 
and  you're  the  only  person  I  would 
want  to  have  them.  After  the  work 
I  put  in  and  all,  I  don't  want  them 
handed  out  to  just  anybody.  I  want 
you   to   take    them." 
Molly  stroked  the  old  woman's 
forehead  gently.  "Why,  thank  you, 
Grandma  Feeney.  I  don't  know 
when  anyone's  done  anything  so 
nice  to  me." 
"Imagine  me  sleeping  in  my  com- 
pany best  sheets,"  smiled  Grandma 
Feeney.  "A  body  forgets  how  nfce  it 
feels.  I  sure  wish  now  I  had  let 
Ellie  Mae  sleep  on  these  cases.  Like 
sleeping  in  a  pansy  bed,  she  used 
to  say."  The  drooping  eyes  closed, 
and  Molly  tiptoed  from  the  room. 
That  evening  after  Dr.  Roberts 
had  been  there  and  pronounced 
Grandma  Feeney  better  than  she 
had  been  for  days,  and  Sister  San- 
ford  had  come  to  stay  the  night, 
Molly  said  goodbye  to  the  invalid. 
As  she  reached  down  to  kiss  the 
withered  cheek.  Grandma  Feeney 
pulled  her  close  and  whispered  in 
her  ear.    "You  know  what,   Molly 
Andrews,"  she  said,  "I  feel  like  a 
million  dollars  here  in  my  pretty 
things.  Sister  Sanford  won't  even 
know  me,  I'll  be  so  nice  to  her 
tonight.    I  just  want  to  thank  you." 
Molly  squeezed  Grandma  Feen- 
ey's  hand.  "And  I  want  to  thank 
you." 
"I  didn't  do  anything  for  you. 
What  are  you  thanking  me  for?" 
"For  more  than  you  know," 
smiled  Molly.    "Goodbye  now." 
l\/f  OLLY  walked  fast  on  her  way 
home.  She  wanted  to  get  there 
before  the  family  started  eating 
dinner.  Sometimes,  she  thought  to 
herself  as  she  sped  along,  sometimes 
a  person  needs  a  house  to  fall  on 
her  before  she  can  see  something 
clearly.  Thinking  this,  she  walked 
a  little  faster. 
Lois  was  making  gravy  when 
Molly  burst  into  the  house.  "Lois," 
she  called  almost  before  she  was 
through  the  door,  "we're  going  to 
have  filet  mignon  tonight." 
Lois  stopped  stirring  the  gravy 
and  looked  at  her  mother,  startled. 
"We're  going  to  what?'' 
"You  scoot  in  the  dining  room 
and  gather  up  all  those  old  dishes 
off  the  table,  while  I  get  down  the 
good  china.  We're  going  to  eat 
hamburger  in  style  tonight." 
Lois  peered  closely  at  her.  "Moth- 
er, are  you  all  right?"  she  asked. 
"I'm  a  lot  better  than  I  was  this 
morning,"  said  Molly.  "After  you 
gather  up  the  old  dishes,  you  can 
get  out  the  best  silverware." 
Lois  stared.  "But  you  said  this 
morning  I  couldn't  use  the  good 
things." 
"One  of  these  days,"  said  Molly, 
climbing  up  to  the  high  cupboard 
where  the   best  dishes  were  kept.

564 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1962 
"we'll  all  fall  apart  like  the  Won- 
derful One  Hoss  Shay,  and  then 
what  good  will  pretty  dishes  that 
have  never  been  used  be?" 
Lois  shook  her  head.  ''Mother, 
are  you  really  sure  you're  all  right? 
Are  you  sure  you  want  to  use  the 
company  best  dishes?'" 
''Correction,  my  dear  daughter," 
said  Molly.  "They  are  family  best 
dishes  from  now  on.  After  all,  we 
won't  be  entertaining  the  President 
of  the  United  States  very  often,  and 
who  is  more  important  to  us  than 
our  very  own  family,  anyway?" 
From  her  high  perch  she  smiled 
down  at  Lois'  still  bewildered  young 
face.  "Someday,"  she  said,  "I'll  tell 
you  all  about  the  joy  that  went  into 
getting  these  dishes,   one  by  one. 
and  how  I  had  to  put  off  buying 
the  soup  tureen  one  winter  so  I 
could  buy  you  a  snowsuit.  There 
are  lots  of  stories  that  go  with  these 
dishes,  and  I'll  tell  them  to  you 
when  we  use  them.  We  won't  use 
them  every  day,  or  we'd  get  tired 
of  them,  just  as  we  get  tired  of  our 
old  dishes.  But  from  now  on  we're 
going  to  use  them  for  all  kinds  of 
special  occasions,  like  when  my  very 
sweet  and  lovely  daughter  cooks 
hamburger  for  the  family  and  wants 
it  to  taste  like  filet  mignon." 
Lois  threw  back  her  head  and 
laughed,  then  walked  toward  the 
dining  room.  "Honestly,"  she  said, 
"a  person  needs  a  degree  in  psy- 
chology to  understand  mothers  now- 
adays." 
Hour  of  Dusk 
Chiistie  Lund  Coles 
The  soul  has  need  of  no  companion  here, 
Within  this  hour  of  gentle,  mauve-soft  dusk; 
With  clouds,  like  pink  sails  floating  on  the  clear 
Ocean  of  sky;  air  as  fragrant  sweet  as  musk. 
The  new  moon,  like  cantaloupe's  green  rind, 
Hovers  beneath  one  star  quivering  above; 
While  birds  continue  chattering  till  they  find 
A  nesting  place;  there  is  the  coo  of  dove. 
I  think  God  sends  this  hour  to  reconcile 
The  intruding  darkness  and  the  glittering  day. 
It  is  as  though  w€  stood  before  his  smile 
And  heard  his  words  dispelling  our  dismay. 
The  soul  has  need  of  no  companion  here, 
It  stands  serene  in  its  own  atmosphere.

Vacation-by-the-day 
Betty  G.  Spencer 
CEVERAL  years  ago,  we  discovered  a  wonderful  new  way  to  vacation. 
My  husband's  vacation  was  rescheduled  for  late  fall,  meaning  no  vaca- 
tion for  the  children  unless  we  could  think  of  a  new  way  to  vacation. 
There  was  a  new  way  —  vacation-by-the-day! 
Rather  hesitantly,  we  planned  several  short  trips.  To  our  surprise,  we 
found  our  family  enjoyed  these  one-day  trips  more  than  we  had  some  of 
our  lengthy  vacations.  Discoveries  were  abundant!  Visits  to  the  State 
Capitol,  a  pioneer  fort,  a  pony  express  way  station,  a  secluded  mountain 
lake,  were  the  beginning.  Before  the  summer  was  over,  we  found  we  were 
all  looking  forward  to  the  next  trip. 
Vacation-by-the-day  proved  to  be  an  inexpensive,  interesting  way  to 
acquaint  our  family  with  the  places  of  interest  around  us.  Everyone  helped 
in  planning.  Without  suggestions  from  us,  our  children  were  seen  con- 
sulting road  maps,  history  books,  and  an  ancient  atlas,  seeking  new  destina- 
tions. Occasionally,  we  would  make  an  overnight  trip,  but  usually  left 
home  early  in  the  morning  and  returned  that  evening.  Lunches,  packed 
at  home  to  save  expense,  were  eaten  at  a  roadside  table  or  in  a  quiet  park. 
The  new  way  to  vacation  provided  an  unexpected  bonus  when  school 
began.  Our  fourth-grader  found  that  he  would  be  studying  the  history  of 
our  State.  Events  and  locations  meant  much  more  to  him,  because  he 
had  visited  many  of  the  places  described  in  the  text. 
This  year,  we  hope  to  take  a  long  out-of-State  trip,  but  we  will  con- 
tinue our  favorite,  year-around-way  to  vacation  —  vacation-by-the-day! 
Page  565