[Vol49 | August 1962 | Sequence: 15 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL AUGUST 1962 In the Family There Is Strength AMILY love and unity and the promise of an eternal pattern are part of the heritage of the generations. This legacy must be guarded as a present joy and as a future blessing. It is a brief time, the years when the children bless the home — their dear beginning words, strange and delightful; their swift feet, their little happy rhymes and songs; their questions and their young philosophy. So brief a time — like orchard trees that come to bud and bloom, then lose their petals, and, in their turn, bear fruit. This family unity, this building today for all the tomorrows, is best accomplished when the members of the family erect the protective structure together. Family activities are long remembered, and their comforting companionship can never be forgotten. A son, whose early years were spent on a western ranch, found that his responsibility to his country took him to an alien land. Yet in that place, with misty eyes, he traced the outlines of the strange mountains, and compared that silhouette with the hills of home, where he had companioned with his father in the fields of yellow Page 586 wheat and purple-flowered lucern. There was enduring comfort in those memories of home; there was strength and rejoicing. A daughter, whose adult life was beset with many trials, received a rejuvenation of spirit each time she recalled the days of summers past, when she sat with her mother on the veranda of the stone house, and they sewed together the intricate designs for quilts and fancy pillows, and the fine film of netting and crocheting. It seemed to the daughter, in later years, that the stitches of those summer days were destined to be everlasting, as if stitching together the love of the mother and the daughter, so that such a companionship could never be lost, and could forever be recalled in elements of affection and spiritual aspiration. So it has been in many families — brothers and _ sisters helping and strengthening and comforting each other; one family unit tenderly caring for the elderly ones before them in the generations, and extending loving concern for the young children in the new lines of the family, continuing the ideals and the purtposes of a blessed family among the homes of earth, in a pattern of everlasting devotion. GENERAL BOARD 4, President -. Madsen, Second Counselor B. Hart S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen G. Layton Edith P. Backman B. Stoddard Winniefred S. W. Peterson Manwaring M. Young Elna P. Haymond. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth As the years hasten in these latter times, many mothers are earnestly searching for family activities that can be enjoyed within the limitations imposed by city life, or by small budgets, or by disparity of ages in the family group. A mother, whatever her home conditions may be, can, by careful planning, allocate to her children some gainful work, which can be accomplished by united effort — keeping the house shining and clean, caring for patio or porch, tending the yard and the garden — these are tasks of infinite possibilities. Keeping accounts and budgets, composing and arranging family histories, writing letters to loved ones away from home — these are rewarding activities. 'They can help to make the home the center of family life — the nucleus of well-beloved interests and activities. Hobbies, too, can bring a family close together, in discovering new knowledge, new enchantment, a new look upon the wonders of the natural world, or the endlessly intriguing objects that may be constructed with willing hands. A child's butterfly collection can be so enlarged that the whole family participates. A son's woodcarving can be enjoyed by others in the family who may help with patterns and materials. A daughter's interest in Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson lrene B. Woodford Fanny S. Kienitz Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor + Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love fancywork can be developed during the family storytelling sessions, and in their family evenings together. A father and a son who classify a mineral collection together are building life ideals together. Their delight becomes a visible and shining experience. Families who travel together in vacation time may find, in the new vistas of experience, an extension of their personal interests, and a vivid perception of their dear love for each other. Seeing together the cities and the industries, the shining highways, and the busy factories, unites a family in interests and _ experiences. Though each one may see a different aspect of a mountain or a wilderness, the horizon of each is widened and illuminated by the other's perception and choice of sight or sound. One may be a gatherer of herbs or flowers, another may rejoice in colored stones; one may listen for the song of birds, another may consider the curves of the highway and the construction of bridges. All are enlightened by each other. Home is where the family weave together the life pattern — the everlasting life pattern, and make it varied and beautiful, yet of one design and purpose. —V. P. C.