[Unwritten Song—Frontispiece by Anna Prince Redd]

Unwritten Song | Anna Prince Redd I have not written a hymn'to the flag Nor an essay on liberty, But I've seen an eagle surmount a crag, And waves, lashing in from the sea, Drive at a granite ledge And retreat in futility. I've lain at rest On a sunlit crest And the stag companioned me. I have not written a chorus To the Lincolns of history, But the freedoms ransomed for us Are my integrity.
Their voices are heard in the mechanized din And wherever the word of freedom has been: The cadence of creature and crag is strong, As sunlight, and heartthrob—: And unwritten song. Xa The Cover: The Grand Tetons, photograph by Hal Rumel. VR OR GOS 5; ' it. -, ke i paket lt p lt rg rere cee pm ote _— SS coca Warren Lee "TREE TRACERIES AT ALTA, UTAH" A Memorial to the Relief Society Sisters Bishop LeGrand Richards Presiding Bishop of the Church (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948).
Think you are wonderful. I believe the Lord thinks you are wonderful. I know what Sister Spafford and her counselors think of you because we have talked and visited together a good many times about what you have done.
When you launched your Building program a year ago, I did not have any misgivings. I knew you would do it. You are the only one hundred per centers we have in the Church, in fact, I think you might call yourselves the One Hundred Per Cent Club or organization, if you would like to, and it would always be that because, well, having been a bishop of three different wards and president of a stake, and now for ten years having served as adviser to the General Relief Society Presidency, I have paraphrased the old statement that if you want anything done give it to the busy man, and I say, "If you want anything done give it to the Relief Society." 'They never fail. I do not know how many of you have heard Brother Thomas E. McKay's little story about when he was at a stake welfare meeting recently.
They were just going to close the meeting when he said, "Oh, president, we have not heard from the Relief Society and we sure ought to have a word from them." And so the stake president called the president of the Relief Society of the stake and she stood up and said: "Brother McKay, the Relief Society is behind the Priesthood one hundred per cent," and the president of the stake stood up and said: "Yes, President McKay, and the Priesthood is behind the Relief Society one hundred years." Now, if there ever comes a day when we can call the Priesthood of this Church the One Hundred Per Cent Club, it will be a great day for the Church I can assure you.
When this program was first launched I think the sisters had some little misgivings because there were rumblings went out over the Church and there were some who had adverse criticisms to offer.
When the sisters told me just now that I would have more than three minutes, I picked up the Bible and thought of the little experience when Jesus went into the home of thing done give it to the Relief So- Simon the leper at Bethany, and you ciety." They never fail. will remember the criticism there.
I do not know how many of you There were some of the same kind have heard Brother Thomas E. Mc- of disciples in our midst in our day,
Kay's little story about when he was who said: "Why do you not take at a stake welfare meeting recently, that money and build an old folks'
They were just going to close the home? Or why do you not take it meeting when he said, "Oh, presi- and give it to the poor instead of dent, we have not heard from the building a home like that for the Relief Society and we sure ought Relief Society? to have a word from them." And I think this is apropos enough so the stake president called the that I would like to read from the Page 75

76
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY 1949 twenty-sixth chapter of Matthew the experience the Savior had along this same line with the disciples of his day.
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat.
Sister Spafford just told you how some of this money was acquired to make these contributions to this great Relief Society fund, and I imagine that it probably cost this woman who had this alabaster box of special ointment a large sum, too, and who knows how much knitting she did in order to acquire it, but, nevertheless, we are told here that she poured it on the Savior's head as he sat at meat.
But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them. Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her
(Mt. 26:8-13).
VOU see it is over two thousand years but the story is still being told, but if the ointment had been sold to feed the poor, or care for the poor, there would have been no story to tell, but she poured it upon his head as he sat at meat, and I would like to say to you sisters who have made contributions to make this building possible, that wherever this gospel shall go, throughout all the world, and until the final winding up scene, this shall stand, the thing that you have done, as a memorial to you, and it shall never be forgotten.
Probably none of us can underestimate the value of the parable
Jesus taught about the man who traveled in a far country, and left his talents with his servants. When he returned and held an accounting with them, the one who had received the five talents and had won another five, to him the Master said:
. . . Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
And if the Master were here today to speak, he would tell you that in this assignment that was made to you that you have been faithful.
You have measured up a hundred per cent. We could not have asked more. Sister Sharp has told you of some of the incidental contributions, some of them of magnitude that have come, that are more than what has actually been asked for.
Now, I know that the sisters had some concern because one day they brought me a letter from one stake president who said they had decided they had to take care of their welfare building first and then they would think about the other later, and so I wrote that stake president, because the Relief Society Presidency were just a little concerned, and when we received a reply from the stake president saying: "Don't worry, our contribution will be there," we did not worry any more.
I happened to be in Idaho Falls attending a stake conference of the South Idaho Falls Stake, and I feel

A MEMORIAL TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS
77 that stake is entitled to credit here today, for those sisters had all of their contributions in and theirs was the first stake in the Church to go over the top, and we were so eager we even called Sister Spafford up from Idaho Falls to tell her, and you know, I could not see Sister Spafford, but I almost thought she had fainted because it took so long to get her answer back. It actually took her breath away, when she found that it could be done.
There is something about it that whenever one does it, then you know that all can if they will, and from that day on they just kept coming in, check after check, from stake after stake, until as you have had announced to you here today, not one stake is being omitted from the roll of a hundred per cent contribution to this great building.
Now, the Lord does a marvelous thing among his children. He provides the ways and the means and he gives us the ideas and the inspiration, but even the Lord has to have people, his children, to work out his designs here in the earth. To illustrate what I mean, you have all heard the story about the man who was driving up the highway and he drove past a beautiful farm.
Everything just looked grand, and there was a lovely farmhouse. And the farmer was standing out in front, and his gardens were nice and his fence was all painted, and this man stopped and said to the farmer, "You and the Lord have surely made a fine looking farm out of this.". And the farmer spoke up and said: "Yes, but you ought to have seen it when the Lord had it alone." "THE point I want to make here is that Sister Spafford and her counselors could not have done it alone, the Lord could not have done it alone, unless he followed a miraculous manner, not his usual way of doing. He gave the ideas. He made it possible. And I tell you my confidence and faith is that if we could go all over this Church and know just how much the Lord did, do in putting the inspiration into the hearts of the individual women and the local organizations to make it possible, we would know that the Lord has been in this program in a very substantial manner, but nevertheless, the Lord has to have someone to help it out, so you good Relief Society sisters and the Lord have done a magnificent work out of this assignment that was made to you.
Along that line, I want to read from the Sunshine Magazine, entitled "If My Hands Slacken:" The smallest roadside pool has its water from the skies and its gleam from the sun and can hold the stars in its bosom.
Even so the humblest person can live splendidly and have a valued share in the economy of the universe.
That is the royal trath that we need to believe, we who think we have no mission and no great sphere in which to move. The universe is not complete without our work well done. Let us not forget the lesson of Antonius Stradivarius whose violins, two hundred years old, are worth their weight in gold. Says Stradivarius, in Mary Ann Evans' immortal poem of that name: "If my hands slacken, I should rob God—since He is fullest good—leaving a blank instead of violins. He could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius."

Now, I like that thinking. Even though the Lord provides all the facilities, he has to have someone through whom he can work. I do not know whether or not you know how much a violin like this is worth, but about a year and a half ago, we had one here in Salt Lake. It was brought out of Poland during the war by a refugee, and when he crossed the border line to get past the Germans he had to play some ragtime or swing, or whatever you call it, so that he would mislead the guards and not attach any particular importance to the violin, but when the Germans found that it had been permitted to get out of Poland, they put to death the man who had had the custody and ownership of the violin.

I said to the man who played it: "That must be a very valuable instrument. What is it really worth?" "Oh, I do not know," he said. "I am carrying fifty thousand dollars insurance on it."

Now, even the Lord could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius, and you will have this monument standing to your credit, as the Savior said, that will be a memorial just as long as this Church shall stand.

Now, I think that it is proper that we should build well. Some of you think that it might be a little extravagant. Sister Evans read some of the statements of Ruskin on building. I would like to pick it up from there, and read another statement he made about building.

When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for present delight, nor for present peace alone, let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for, and let us think as we lay stone on stone, that a time is to come when those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and that men will say, as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, see, this our fathers (our mothers) did for us.

And you remember the story they tell about when President Brigham Young made the contract for laying the foundation of this temple, which is sixteen feet wide. He came here one day and found the contractor throwing in chipped granite instead of those huge blocks, and he made him tear them all out and put in the blocks, with the statement: "We are building this temple to stand through the millennium."

WE were riding down First Avenue some few years ago with the First Presidency, and President Grant said: "Bishop, stop your car here a minute," and I did, and he said: "I never look at that temple from this point but what I think of the pioneers who undertook to build a building of that magnitude when they were a thousand miles away from transportation and had nothing but their hands to build with. What faith and courage." They were not building for today. They were building, as President Brigham Young said, that it might stand through the millennium.

And that is the type of building that the Relief Society has planned to build, one that will stand as long as this earth continues in its present form and for its present purposes until we will have a new heaven and a new earth, and with all my heart I congratulate them and you in this great achievement.

I have told this story about an English lord who came here some few years ago. He was shown through the Church Office Building by one of our good brethren, and you know the upper strata in