President Anthon H. Lund John A. Widtsoe
======================================================================

PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. John A. Widtsoe. President Anthon H. Lund is unusually well fitted by temperament, training and experience for the work required of the first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church, and of the President of the Quorum of the Twelve. The choice of President Lund as of President Penrose for continued membership in the First Presidency is generally looked upon by the people as another evidence that the administration of President Heber J. Grant will be guided by inspired wisdom. In the First Presi- ^dency as now constituted the members of the Church repose their full confidence. Friends of God and of men are at the helm. 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The life of President Anthon H. Lund, a beautiful, encouraging story to all who love the well-balanced, sincere life, explains in part at least, the attainment by President Lund of his present high position in the hearts of the people and among the authorities of the Church. On May 15th, 1844, he was born in Aalborg. Denmark, and among the restful people and satisfying nature of his native country he spent the rst eighteen years of his life, and learned well the lessons in social progress and successful government in which Denmark even today is preeminent among the nations. In 1862 he sailed across the Atlantic, toiled across the plains, and entered Salt Lake City on September 23. Since that day, whether at home or abroad, his labors have been for Utah and her people. President Lund is essentially of the scholarly type. From his earliest childhood he has been devoted to intellectual pursuits. At four years of age he was sent to a private school, and at seven years of age entered the public schools of Aalborg. meanwhile receiving private lessons in English, French and German. At the age of eleven he won the first place for scholarship in the schools of Aalborg, and that in face of the opposition directed towards him because he already favored "Mormon" doctrine. In addition to his education in school, he read much and widely. His learning and devotion to study were early recognized and used by his associates. As a young man of 18 he was made custodian and dispenser of medicines when an epidemic of sickness broke out on the slow-sailing vessel that brought him to America. When he reached Utah, and settled in Sanpete county, one of his early employments was to act as private tutor in the family of John Barton. Later, when President Young built the first telegraph line in the territory, he was one of the young men called to go to Salt Lake City to learn telegraphy; and in fact Brother Lund had charge at one time of the telegraph office at Mt. Pleasant. In later life, as a member of the territorial legislature, he drafted the law which created the Agricultural College. The scholarly disposition and attainments of President Lund have been recognized in many ways. At present he is a member of the Church Board of Education and a Regent of the University of Utah. Early in his life, also, President Lund manifested a strong love for spiritual matters. The Bible was taught him in his early childhood by his grandmother, by whom he was reared, as his mother had died when he was about three and a half years old. When he learned to read, the Bible was his favorite book. When the boy was only six years old, in 1850, Apostle Erastus Snow opened the mission in Denmark, Brother Lund's uncle, PRESIDENT ANTHON H. LUND. 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Jens Anderson, was one of the first converts, and his grandmother joined the Church shortly afterwards. Thus, the boy was practically brought up in the Church; though he was not baptized until May 15, 1856, when he was twelve years old. Before that time, however, he had been counted as a "Mormon" and had endured much bitter persecution and cruel ostracism because of his connection with a despised people. Up to this time he had been a defender, as needed, of the strange faith of the "Mormons;" but about a year after his baptism he was called to devote his time to missionary work in behalf of the Church. The first assignment of the thirteen-year-old missionary was to teach English to the emigrating saints, and if he had more time, to distribute tracts and to help the elders. When he gave the first report of his labors, the late President Fjeldsted lifted him to the speakers' table so that the conference might see him. The man who occupies the second place in the Church today, began his work early. Perhaps one of the most valuable services of the young missionary was his translation of the Millennial Star to the truth-hungry saints. Brother Lund served as a missionary for about five years, and during that time traveled without purse or scrip. At the age of 16 he was ordained an elder, and for about two years afterward, served as president of the Aalborg branch. He took an active part in Church affairs from his arrival in Utah. In 1865 he helped organize the first Sunday school in Mt. Pleasant; in 1871 he went on a mission to Scandinavia; in 1874, he became a Stake High Counselor; in 1877, Stake Clerk; in 1878, Superintendent of Ephraim Sunday schools; in 1883 he went on another mission to Scandinavia, this time as president of the mission; in 1888 he became the vice-president of the Manti Temple; in 1889 he was chosen an apostle; in 1891 he became the president of the Manti Temple; in 1893, he was called to preside over the European mission; in 1897 he was sent on a mission to Syria and Palestine; in 1900 became superintendent of the Religion Classes of the Church and also Church Historian; in 1901 he was chosen a member of the First Presidency. Moreover he has filled many other responsible positions in the Church. President Lund's life has been one of ceaseless labor for the upbuilding of God's kingdom. In addition to his labors in behalf of education and the Church, President Lund has had long and successful experience in the more temporal affairs of life. When he first reached Utah he did whatever labor was at hand for his support. In 1864 he was Church teamster to bring emigrants across the plains. At one time he had charge of a photograph gallery. He PRESIDENT GRANT AND HIS COUNSELORS. 71 was the business manager of the mission office on his first mission. The successful operation of the Ephraim Co-op Store was largely due to his wise management. At present he is director of the Z. C. M. I., Zion's Saving Bank and Trust Co., Beneficial Life Insurance Co., and President of The Amalgamated Sugar Co., and connected with many other successful business enterprises. In the political life of the community, President Lund has also taken an active part. He served early in the Mt. Pleasant City Council. Twice he was elected to the legislature. At various times he has held important State positions, notable among them membership on the State Capitol Commission. President Lund speaks with ease and with a beautifully simple language easily understood. His public addresses are full of information and simple, direct exhortations to righteousness. His faith is clear and unbounded; his testimony convincing; his interpretations of the Gospel sound. His life is unblemished; and all who know him feel safe in following in his footsteps. His wisdom is acknowledged; and many seek his counsel, and his courage in behalf of the truth has never wavered. The life and character of President Lund justify in the eyes of man the high position that he occupies. However, the love which tens of thousands bear to President Lund rests largely upon his understanding of the human heart. The hopes and fears, the strength and weakness, the secret longings of earthly man find a ready response in President Lund. With charity he reaches out his hand to lift and to guide into a richer life those who come within his reach. For this human understanding of humanity he has won the enduring affection of the people which he has served from childhood. It is wonderful to win the love and confidence of a people.