Notes From The Field In Memoriam. It is with feelings of great sadness that we have to report the death of Sister Lillie Belle Gledhill, president of the Sevier Stake Relief Society, which occurred May 1, 1929, (Sister Gledhill has served most faithfully and efficiently since her calling to this offce in June, 1913. In all her work she demonstrated the finest type of service, and that which is the materialization of the real Relief. Society spirit. The welfare of her Relief Society sisters in the whole community was ever the! First thought in her mind, and she gave herself, with heart and soul, to the tasks before her. There was always the very finest type of cooperation in the stake over which Sister Gledhill presided with the General Board of Relief Society, and every effort was made to/carry out, to the fullest extent, the instructions that were sent from the general office. The spirit of love and faith manifest throughout all of Sister Gledhill's life was eloquent of her life's ideals, viz., efforts to serve her fellowmen. President Louise Y. Robison, and every member of the General Board join in extending condolence to Sister Gledhill's family and her community, in the passing of so beloved and worthy a woman. REORGANIZATIONS There have been a number of reorganizations in the Relief Society in the various stakes: Emery Stake. On April 28, 1929, at a stake conference, President Louisa Oveson, at her own request, was released as president of the Emery stake. The General Board of Relief Society wishes to congratulate Sister Oveson on the nineteen years of excellent service she has rendered in the capacity of stake president. Called by President Reuben G. Miller, before the Emery stake was divided into the Emery and Carbon stakes, as it now is, Sister Oveson has served and given the very finest efforts of a faithful Latterday Saint in the discharge of her duties. In retiring from this position, at her own request, Sister Oveson carries with her the love and best wishes of every sister in her community, and can certainly take with her into her retirement the feeling that she has completed a worthy labor in the service of her fellowmen. Ata stake union meeting on May 11, 1929, Mrs. Margaret Peterson was sustained as president of Emery stake; Mrs. Nellie Tuttle as first counselor; Mrs. Eva Killpack as. Second counselor; Mrs. Minnie Ungerman as secretary-treasurer.  Juab Stake. At the recent quarterly conference the Juab stake Relief Society board was reorganized, and the following officers sustained: president, Mrs. Edna J. Cazier; first counselor, Mrs. Florence H. Chase; second counselor, Mrs. Ethel C. Gass; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Anna D. Allred; and the following board members: Maud Forrest, Lillian Cowan, Ethel A. Irons, Chloe N. Bailey, Elizabeth Pace, Laura D. Brough, Ellen C. Cole, Vivian Hoyt, Etha B. Parkes. San Juan Stake. The San Juan stake Relief Society was recently reorganized. Mrs. Lucinda A. Redd, after years of fine service in behalf of Relief Society was released as president, this action at the request of Sister Redd herself. In her retirement from the office of stake president, she carries with her the love and appreciation of all the sisters of her stake, for service nobly rendered in the cause of humanity. The new executive officers of San Juan stake are: Mrs. Hattie R. Barton, president; Mrs. Margaret C. Perkins, first counselor; Mrs. Marian G. Nielson, second counselor; Mrs. Marian P, Nielson, secretary-treasurer. The members of the stake board have not yet been selected. Weber Stake. The most recent news of reorganizations coming to the office is from Weber stake. At the conference of the Relief Society of the Weber stake, held at Ogden, May 7, 1929, President Marianne M. Browning was honorably released as president of the Relief Society on account of poor health. At the regular meeting of the Stake Presidency, High Council and Stake Board held May 15, 1929, Mrs. Katherine G, Wright was chosen as president of the Relief Society, with Mrs. Charlotte Jacobs as her first counselor. The other counselor, secretary-treasurer and board members are yet to be selected. South African Mission, A most interesting caller at the Relief Society office recently was Mrs, Clara A. Martin, recently returned from the South African mission, where she has served as president of the Relief Society. Her missionary experience began in April, 1926, and for the past three years she has labored in this far distant field. In leaving the South African mission Mrs. Martin felt that she had left it in good condition; there are many obstacles to be met in this field, but she feels that the sisters are doing the very best they can under the circumstances. There are five organizations of the Relief Society in the South African mission, with a membership of sixty. While it is necessary to make some changes NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 in the Jessons as given in the Magazine, as far as possible every effort is made to put into effect the general plan of study and work as suggested by the General Board. Woodruff Stake. Many people have an idea that it is impossible to grow flowers in some parts of our western wilderness, but the very splendid effort made in the Woodruff stake Relief Society last year, is an answer to that question. During the class leaders' convention of the Woodruff stake a remarkable demonstration of what can be done in the way of growing flowers was given. Dahlias, roses, zinnias, sweet peas, in fact the most attractive type of flowers were in great profusion as evidence of the untiring energy of the Relief Society sisters in this work of beautifying the home and community. All the wards in the Woodruff stake were represented at this Reunion, which was a combination of demonstrations of Work and Business Meeting, of Community Beautification, and of Teacher-training, quite typical of the activities of the Relief Society. The interior of the L. D. S. Chapel presented a most beautiful sight when it opened for the Saturday morning of the Relief Society reunion and bazaar. The rostrum appeared to be a veritable flower garden, and the walls of the building were covered with needlework of all kinds, representing what the members of the Relief Society are accomplishing during their leisure moments. Vegetables, too, were on display, all of them grown by the women, whose work was interesting and instructive in all departments of this exhibit. Prizes were offered by the business houses of Lyman for the best showing by community and individuals, and it was very fine to note that each community excelled along some particular line, which resulted in the prizes being widely distributed. Big Horn Stake. During the past season the Big Horn stake Relief Society has certainly been active in all its departments. Some new branch and ward organizations have been completed, and a plan for departmental work has been worked out. The officers are enthusiastic about their work. The stake board is getting out a handbook containing general information that every Relief Society member should know in regard to the history, organization, aims and activities of the Relief Society of the whole Church. In the back of the book will be many suggestions that will strengthen the testimonies of the sisters. The aim of the book is to give a better understanding of the scope of the Relief Society and arouse pride in its membership. The wards have accepted the new plan for visiting teachers, and are working it out very successfully.  South Davis Stake. During the spring a very successful exhibit of needlework was held in the banquet room of the Bountiful First Ward amusement hall. Each of the eight wards of the stake was well represented. Every available space was utilized and presented a beautiful appearance, displaying to advantage the many useful things made by the South Davis Relief Society women. At the March union meeting flowers and shrubs was the subject of an interesting discussion conducted by a local nurseryman, and his advice to the women will be most useful in the work they hope to accomplish this summer. The Relief Society song practice has been featured during the year, both at the union meetings and in the wards, and most gratifying results are in evidence. "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" By C. O. A. The night of July 28, 1926, is long to be remembered by the thousands of Angelenos who had the rare privilege of attending the "Mormon" Tabernacle Choir concert at the Hollywood Bowl. It was an idyllic night, without a cloud in the sky. A slight, cool breeze stirred the leaves on the trees; the sweet fragrance of the wild flowers filled the air. As it was a moonless night, the stars in the mighty vault of heaven shone with unusual brightness. The famous Holywood Bowl, reconstructed at the expense ef hundreds of thousands of dollars, presented an awe-inspiring sight. It is a depression scooped out by the hand of Nature in the Hollywood hills, and finished by the hand of man until it resembles Valhalla, or some such idealistic meeting place of the gods. In short, the time, the place, and the occasion formed a perfect setting for a scene such as is very rarely enjoyed by the average human being. When the powerful lights were turned on at 8:30 p. M. And the lack and white figures of the famous choir were discernable upon the stage, a thrill went through the audience; and when they raised their united voices in the beautiful song, "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy", it seemed that the very hills of Hollywood joined in the shout of praise as the echoes from far and near rebounded back and thrilled the great audience again and again. It was a sight and occasion never to be forgotten; and the twelve or fifteen thousand Angelenos who had the esteemed privilege of being present that night, went away with the conviction that one thing of which the "Mormon" Church may justly be proud is the great Tabernacle Choir. Your Future Bids You Prepare While you are yet young for the Great Opportunities which are sure to knock at your door Brigham Young University Offers Hundreds of Courses in Five Colleges APPLIED SCIENCE COMMERCE ARTS AND SCIENCES EDUCATION FINE ARTS FALL QUARTER BEGINS SEPTEMBER 16 Foundation Courses Leading to all the Professions Are Offered by a Strong Faculty Member of the Association of American Universities The 1929-30 Catalogues are now out Address Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH Seven That Times Champion Elated of the Feeling World This is your feeling when you are leaving an O. P. Skaggs System Store after Ee having completed your  shopping. Our store is resplendent with seasonable fruits and vegetables, choicest of teas and coffees, and of course all the staple and fancy groceries. Bring your next shopping list to our store at Magna. O. P SKAGGS FOOD t STORES For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. and Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine p= tinge v) and Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City shopping. Our store is your next shopping list to Efficient Service System MAGNA This Happened in Rigby, Idaho as Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation: "I want a can of Pork and Beans." "BLUE PINE?" "Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans." "Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?" "The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten." Scowcroft's BLUE PINE PORK & BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans. Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with. Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and Jet the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal. "We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz, kidsAt Less. Than halt YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. Ist So. Was. 2177 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. BOOKSHOPPING ?the thrill of personal selection | that gives added pleasure ? for your enjoyment of books at home come in write us for a list of the kind of books If you canno that will give you pleasure as well as profit. Deseret Book Company 44 East On South Temple ON GUARD ands on guard over the Insurance interests of its Are you fully protected? Have you enough FIRE INSURANCE UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. Heber J. Grant & Co. Gen'l Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah See our agent in your town. This Company stands on guard over the Insurance interests of its customers. Are you fully protected? Have you enough Fie Insurance Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. Heber J. Grant & Co. Gen?l Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah See our agent in your town. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine P. O. Box 1793 Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH ?