THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 39 Mackensie demands of the government an answer to the problem, and wants to know what is going to happen to this great tragic army of unmarried women. She proposes a dowry of $500 when they get married, and a free passage over seas to the British colonies, as an opportunity for marriage and motherhood. She wants also to tax all bachelors beyond a certain age, and use this tax money in supporting the unmarried mothers and their illegitimate children. Federal Aid in the Protection of Infancy and Maternity. It is interesting in this connection to record the effort made by the Children's Bureau, at Washington, to establish a maternity benefit system by states or by the nation. Foreign countries have adopted benefit systems for mothers. Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Holland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland with numerous small kingdoms all have these benefits. The expense of the benefits is usually shared by the employer, the state and the wage earner. Associated with this are national societies for the prevention of infant mortality, and America is appealed to to further this laudable purpose. We are told that in certain cities, a beginning in the right direction has been made through the visiting nurse, the prenatal clinic, the hospital receiving maternity cases, and the infant welfare or child health center. But in no city has the need for such facilities been fully met. Moreover, the wives of self-respecting men in the lower income groups who will not accept a private charity;  and those who can not afford the cost of adequate care and instruction from physicians and nurses in private practice, are usually unable to secure protection that modern science might give them and their babies. The problem is not local or sectional, it is nation wide. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt Visits Utah. The visit of Mrs. Chapman Catt, and her associates, to the women of Utah was signalized by a victory convention arranged by Mrs. Emily S. Richards and her associate officers in the Suffrage Council of Utah. The ladies who accompanied Mrs. Catt each gave intelligent talks on the questions of law, child welfare, public health, and improvement of social and vital conditions. The convention was held in the Assembly Hall, on November 17 and 18. Mrs. Catt herself spoke in the Tabernacle on Sunday afternoon, and was introduced by President Charles W. Penrose, with a glowing tribute to her powers as a leader, to the sincerity and womanliness of her character, and to the catho- 
 licity of her vision and sympathy. Mrs. Catt was magnetic, eloquent and charming;  Dr. Parker gave learned discussions, while the younger members of the party spoke ably and intelligently. A reorganization took place at the close of the convention which, by the way, was interspersed with banquets, dinners and receptions, and Mrs. C. S. Kinney was made president of the Utah Council, with Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight as vice-president. Mrs. Catt announced a convention of the National League of Women Voters next February in Chicago, into which the National Suffrage association and allied bodies will merge with the passage of the law establishing national suffrage for women. She outlined some possible avenues for future labor of the league in the matter of social hygiene, child welfare, and improvement of existing laws. Great credit is due Mrs. Richards for the charming manner in which she carried on the activities of the convention, ably assisted as she was by Mrs. E. E. Corfman, chairman of the committee on arrangement, and a large force of committees. French Suffragists Plan Election Defi. By Universal Service, Paris, Oct. 29. — As a protest against the decision of the government not to give them the vote, French women suffragists have announced that they will hold national elections on the same day as the male voters. If their candidates are rejected they will form a "woman's parliament." Social Advisory Committee Holds Convention. The Social Advisory Convention, which was conducted from November 17 to 22, was particularly striking in its results and productive of much thought and hopes for reform, especially in the matter of dancing and amusement, which was the topic under consideration. It was to be regretted that neither Elder Stephen L. Richards nor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman were present, both being absent from the state, but the whole work was carried through most successfully under the stirring management of Elder Geo. D. Pyper, Dr. John H. Taylor and Elder Oscar A. Kirkham, assisted by the new Church social service secretary, Arthur Beeley. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams from the R. S. Board, with Sisters Gates, Hyde, Crismon, Eddington and McLelland were in attendance at various sessions of the convention. The World League Against Alcoholism. The dry forces expect to concentrate in the immediate future in Scotland, Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa, the 41 THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE Scandinavian countries, Russia and Japan. Prohibition efforts have been made there which the League believes are dry, and complete prohibition, in the minds of the "drys," would have tremendous effect on all the other Latin-American countries. Scotland votes next year, and the "drys" believe that if that country adopts prohibition, the whole British empire will follow. In the Scandinavian countries there has been tremendous prohibition advance. Success of prohibition at the New Zealand polls is held to be insurance that Australia will go dry. Adoption of local option in South Africa would, "dry" leaders say, pave the way for prohibition all over the continent. LOS ANGELES RELIEF SOCIETY Russia is under prohibition, and its continuance and enforcement would affect the Balkans favorably. A successful fight against the liquor traffic in Japan, League men assert, would set a standard shortly to be adopted by the entire Orient. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. California Mission. Mrs. Louisa Jones has been appointed president of the Relief Societies of the California mission to succeed Mrs. 
 Minnie K. Robinson, who, with her husband, was recently honorably released from this mission. Mrs. Robinson will be greatly missed in the California mission where she has served for many years in the capacity of Mission President and has given valiant service in the relief society cause. Mrs. Robinson has traveled throughout the mission instructing local officers, and in Los Angeles she has spent a great deal of time and energy visiting the sick and those in need of comfort. The Red Cross work done by the California mission branches under Mrs. Robinson's supervision was very creditable and elicited praise from the various Red Cross chapters. In the Tucson, Arizona, branch there is an enrollment of thirty-seven members. Twenty-seven of these members are subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. SAN BERNARDINO RELIEF SOCIETY Reorganizations. Mrs. Florence Knight, wife of President John M. Knight, was recently appointed president of the Relief Societies in the western states mission. Mrs. Knight succeeds Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, who has presided over the Relief Societies in this mission during all the time her husband served as president. Mrs. Herrick, with her rare qualities, succeeded in creating great interest in Relief Society work, and built up a number of strong branches in the mission. Being especially gifted in dramatics, Mrs. Herrick, from time to time, with the local talent, arranged entertainments of high class, thus furnishing healthy recreation and giving the branch members an opportunity for development along these lines. At the Relief Society THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 43 conference, held in connection with the dedication of the Denver chapel, great appreciation was expressed for the labors of Mrs. Herrick. Alberta Stake. Mrs. Jane W. Bates, who has served for twenty-five years as stake secretary of Alberta stake, was released on August 3, to be appointed second counselor to Mrs. Lydia J. Brown. Mrs. Bates has been a capable and faithful secretary, always up to date with her work and ready and willing to serve her president. Her accounts, records and reports for the entire twenty-five years were handed over to her successor immediately upon, her release. The change in Alberta stake was due to the death of Mrs. Elizabeth I. Hammer, first counselor to Mrs. Brown. Mrs. Annie D. Snow, who had served as second counselor, was made first counselor. Pocatello Stake. The Pocatello stake Relief Society members have just returned from their third excursion to the Logan Temple. The attendance was larger than at any previous time and included a number of the brethren. Members of the stake who were unable to go donated freely so that over one hundred dollars was contributed to the temple. Bingham Stake. At the stake conference recently held in Idaho Falls, the following program was given: "Child Welfare Work in Our Community," by Mrs. Mattie Telford;  "Diseases of Children," by Dr. Ralph Merrill;  "Dress and Housing of Our School Boys and Girls," by Mrs. Bennett, of the Extension department of Boise;  "The Value of Health and the Handicap of Ill-Health in connection with Education," Dr. E. H. Lindley, president of the State University, at Moscow;  "The Work of a Relief Society Teacher," by Mrs. Elizabeth Brunt;  "Value of Teacher Training Classes," by Miss Ida Jensen. Mrs. Mayme Lajrd, the president of this stake, is to be congratulated upon this splendid program of timely topics, and upon the able speakers secured to discuss them. Alpine Stake. The Alpine Stake Relief Society has been doing temple work as a stake since June 19, 1914. Because of the crowded condition of the Salt Lake temple their stake has sent onethousand six-hundred thirteen names for baptism to Manti, 
 and have donated $55 to that temple. During last year they were unable to accomplish all they had planned, on account of the influenza epidemic, but up to date they have sent fifteen excursions from Alpine stake to the Salt Lake temple. At first their companies numbered from one-hundred and fifty to three-hundred seventy-five persons each time;  and finally on account of the crowded conditions they were limited to one hundred fifty persons. This summer they divided their stake into three districts, taking from fifty to sixty-five persons in three separate companies. Their stake temple committee attend to all the clerical details connected with the visit, so that the temple recorders have no copying to do after the company arrives. The temple donations are gathered by a committee in each ward, turned over to the stake committee, and finally handed to the temple bookkeeper, thereby saving the time of having each person stop at the desk personally. Their donations on these excursions have averaged $55, making a total of $810 turned over to the Salt Lake temple. The general authorities of the Church and the workers of the Salt Lake temple, with their wives, were entertained by Alpine stake, July 22. The president and counselors of each of the seventeen ward Relief Societies in the stake were included as guests at the hot dinner served by the ladies of the Relief Society. Luncheon was served in the evening before the visitors boarded their special train for home. Three-hundred and twenty-five persons were served, and the ward Relief Societies financed the whole affair. The brethren prepared the program for the morning, and after dinner took the visitors for a ride through the stake, visiting many places of interest. All expressed themselves as having had a day of pleasure long to be remembered. The Lehi Wards Introduce a New Feature. The Relief Society sisters of the Lehi wards passed a resolution recently to assist the young mothers so that they might attend the Relief Society meeting on the fourth Tuesday of the month and thus get the lesson work given in the home courses of our society. The sisters go to the home of a daughter, daughter-in-law, or neighbor, and take good care of the babies while the young mother is absent. We commend the example to the sisters everywhere. Ogden Stake. Mrs. Adeline Knight Belnap, who died in Ogden, June 9, 1919, after an illness of only two hours, was a well known historical figure of the Church and stake. She was the last THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 45 member who belonged to the Church in the days of Kirtland. She was born [May 4, 1831, being one of the first children born in the Church, and was intimately associated with the prophet and his family in her youth. Her husband, Gilbert Belnap, was a member of the body guard who slept on the floor of Carthage jail the first night the prophet was there. He was the first marshal of Ogden, and the first prosecuting attorney of Weber county. Sister Belnap was president of the Relief Society of Hooper for thirty-six years, and was a practicing midwife for twenty-five years. When the first saloon was introduced into Hooper, Mrs. Belnap and Margaret Manning canvassed the town for signatures to a petition for the removal of the saloon, which was speedily effected. Mrs. Belnap's father was one of the first bishops in the Church. Her grandparents joined the Church June 8, 1830, and Vincent Knight, her grandfather, is referred to by the prophet Joseph Smith in the Doctrine and Covenants. The family have a patriarchal blessing given by father Smith to Vincent Knight on that date. Dedication of the Hawaiian Temple. The visit of President Heber J. Grant accompanied by Presidents Anthon H. Lund and Rudger Clawson, Bishop Charles W. Nibley, Elders Stephen L. Richards and Arthur Winter to the Sandwich Islands, is of great interest to this people because of the dedication of the Hawaiian temple which took place there November 27, Thanksgiving Day. The participation of a member of  on the afternoon of November 28, 1919. The program contained many reminiscent and historical features, interspersed with music and song. An especially notable feature was the original poem by Mrs. Ruth May Fox, set to music by Professor Evans Stephens, in honor of the event. President Martha H. Tingey presided, in her dignified and magnetic way, radiating a spirit of sweet fellowship which animated all her associates and fellow officers. The chairman of the arrangement committee, Mrs. Maria Young Dougall and her committee are to be congratulated on the successful fruition of their labors. James H. Anderson. A Jewish newspaper was started in Salt Lake City in November. Wartime prohibition was made permanent by Congress in November, for the United States. Methodist ministers in the United States are to have their salaries increased forty per cent, from Jan. 1, 1920. Women in England are commencing to wear regular men's trousers in certain classes of manual labor. Palestine was definitely assigned to the jurisdiction of Great Britain in November, Syria going to France and Arabia to the Arabs. President Heber J. Grant left Salt Lake City on November 13, to conduct the dedication services of the Hawaiian temple on November 27. Lady Astor, an American (Virginian) by birth, was elected to the British house of commons in the November election in Great Britain. Mrs. Jean H. Norris, a woman attorney, was appointed city magistrate in New York in November, being the first woman to hold such a position there. Sir Wm. Crookes, one of the world's eminent chemists made the declaration in November that science had demon the material unstated that "spirits elements. Actually have muscles and use them" ON THE WATCH TOWER 47 President Wilson has learned to write his signature with his left hand, the paralysis having affected his right hand. Governor Coolidge, of Massachusetts, was re-elected on the "law and order" stand of Governor Coolidge in refusing to reinstate the Boston police strikers. At Porterchester, N. Y., on November 16, an Episcopal church pastor publicly objected to women wearing short stockings and dresses and showing their bare knees on the public thoroughfares. There are others. Dr. Cooper L. Redfield of Chicago, one of America's leading medical men, announces from a scientific and historical standpoint that "the woman who bears the most children before 45 lives the greatest number of years after 45 years of age. A "Call to Arms" of the Federation of Russian Workers, or "reds" in America made public by the government on November 9, specifically declares a hatred of God, of religion, and of all government. The federation has adherents from many nationalities other than Russians. In the U. S. Senate on November 11, Senators Henderson, Thomas, Ashurst, and Owens, joined in a glowing and merited tribute to the "Mormon" people, following a timely address by Senator Reed Smoot in defense of the people of Utah. A "Christian Conference" at Pittsburg, Pa., on November 13, refused to listen to Wesley King, a non-"Mormon," and to James E. Talmage, of the council of apostles, who were sent by the Salt Lake City Commercial Club to correct erroneous statements about the people of Utah. Germany is frequently reported in the newspapers to be in great turmoil, but authentic information is that these reports are unreliable, and that the German people have settled down to methodical work, to regain prosperity;  they are suffering greatly from lack of food and clothing. The universe has bounds and is practically a globulous system, is the announcement of recent scientific discovery as made by the Royal society and the Royal Astronomical society of Great Britain in November. By this it is shown that the sun's rays curve instead of following a straight line.