[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: BEAR LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the thirty-ninth semi-annual
conference of the Bear Lake Stake held in
Paris 1st Ward meeting house, Friday Nov.
26, 1897, at 10 a. m., President Julia
Lindsay presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by President James C.
Hart. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Roll called, Stake officers present
six; officers of the various branches of the
Society ten.
 	President Lindsay thought the bad condi-
tion of the roads prevented many from at-
tending conference and said we should be
willing to make sacrifices to do our duty.
Those who do not put up with inconveni-
ences need not expect the reward that
awaits those who are willing to meet their
obligations. She was pleased to see some
of the brethren with us in conference.
	The verbal reports were as follows: Paris
1st Ward, Pres. Stucki; Paris 2nd Ward,
Pres. Ashley; Lanark, Pres. Parker;
Bloomington, Pres. Patterson; a written re-
port from St. Charles was read by Stake


[Column 1]
Counselor L. M. Hart; Laketown, Pres-
Hodges; Montpelier, Pres. Hoganson;
Ovid, Pres. Carlson.
	Stake Counselor Elizabeth Collings ex-
pressed her gratitude for the privilege of
being at conference and felt thankful for a
standing in the kingdom of God. She had
often wondered why one so weak as she
had been called to the position she had oc-
 cupied so long. Desired to do her duty, be
humble and submissive, emphasized the
necessity of doing the work for our dead.
	Stake Counselor L. M. Hart felt thank-
ful for the hope she had of an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. She had been in-
terested in listening to the reports and
hoped the presidents who were absent had a
reasonable excuse. Said if we would leave
some unnecessary work undone and devote
more time to the improvement of the mind
it would be to our advantage. We should
use every moment we could for the study
of the principles of the Gospel; she knew
that if she lived up to these principles she
could go before her Father in heaven and
ask for blessings, for her prayers had been
answered many times. We want our mem-
bers to be pure and holy, not only in deed
but in thought, for the spirit of God cannot
dwell in unholy tabernacles. Admonished
all to be alive to their duties today for life
is uncertain. Invoked the blessings of
heaven upon all.
	Singing “Come let us anew our journey
pursue.” Benediction by Elder Bagley.
	AFTERNOON SESSION: Meeting called
 to order by President Lindsay. After the
usual opening exercises President Lindsay
expressed the pleasure she felt in seeing a
larger attendance this afternoon, had noticed
in listening to some of the reports that the
average attendance was not half. Would
be thankful if some plan could be suggested
that would create more interest among the
sisters with regard to attending their meet-
ings. The counsel at the conference in
Salt Lake City which she had recently at-
tended was that if we had grain in good
condition we should keep it, also that we
 establish some plan that those who need
help may have something to do in return
for that which they receive, we should see
that no one suffers. Asked the Lord to
bless us all.
	Sister Mary Bagley said she always felt
blest in attending these meetings. Bore
testimony that the Relief Society had been
a great blessing to her, it had helped her to
be a better wife and mother and teach her
children truths that she could not have
taught them if she had not been connected
with this noble organization. There are
trials that we are not able to surmount
without the assistance of our Heavenly
Father and the kind words of our brothers
 and sisters. Desired to do her duty through
all circumstances.
	Sister Amelia Hoge bore a faithful testi-
mony to the divinity of the work in which
we are engaged, felt her weakness when at-
 tempting to address the sisters but was de-
sirous of performing her duties to the best
of her ability.
	Sister N. E. Pugmire felt very pleased to
be at the conference. Exhorted mothers to
be very careful of the example they set be-
fore their children, they sometimes unknow-
ingly sow seeds of unbelief in the hearts of
their children. She felt blest in meeting
with the sisters of the Relief Society, and
said how much we should miss Sister Lind-
say and others who have labored among us

[Column 2]
so long if we were deprived of them, feared
we did not appreciate them as we should.
Spoke of the necessity of each one building
on her own foundation, we shall be re-
warded for that which we do ourselves and
not for that which our fathers and mothers
do. Let us open up our hearts and not be
afraid to offer kind and encouraging words
to one another.
	President William Budge said that in a
conference of this kind our minds were
drawn out towards God and His work, and
for a time we forget those things of less im-
portance. Said the sisters should economize
their time that they may attend their meet-
ings and thereby receive a blessing. Spoke
at some length upon influence and related
circumstances showing the necessity of pos-
sessing the right spirit, that our influence
may be felt for good.
	Minutes were read and approved. Sing-
ing “O say what is truth.” Benediction by
President William L. Rich.
