Calling All Remnant Fans By Kathleen B. Nelson AT the remnant counter Serena stood, a neatly dressed woman with a happy, thoughtful face. The silvery wave of hair against the soft rose accent on her smart little hat looked like an award of merit. Her eyes were meditative, her mouth relaxed in pleasant contemplation, as she surveyed the fabrics spread before her. She did not paw them over. Her eyes did the probing. After a careful summing up, she removed her gloves thoughtfully and reached for just the piece she wanted. She noted the price, the amount; her fingers caressed its softness; her eyes dilated over its color; her mind said, '"Marie will be lovely in a blue dress. I'll make it plain, with good lines—just a girdle of rose-buds and perhaps a handful scattered on the skirt." She laid the piece over her left arm. Another moment's contemplation. Then she picked up a picce of soft, pink flannel, this time a bit uncertainly. Suddenly her imagination made of it a baby blanket, and it, too, took its place on the left arm. "My crochet hook and some white yarn will turn that trick," she thought triumphantly. Suddenly her eyes popped and, as she held up a piece of rosy eiderdown, unreserved pleasure was written on her face. "Just big enough for a bathrobe for Teena. Won't she love it? I'll finish the edges with white yarn, too, and make a cord and tassles and embroider a white duck on the pocket." Next it was an ungainly bulk of silkaline her fingers caressed. "I'll cover my worn blankets and make a quilt for Mrs. Casoli. With that big family she can use it." At irregular intervals she made fresh discoveries until both arms were well upholstered with them. The girl at the counter was either a discerning person or else she was held fast' and speechless in an enchantment of the 'older woman's weaving. Not once did the girl disturb Serena's fruitful reverie by lifting her finger or raising her voice. A sigh of satisfaction as Serena contemplated her quarry; a smile at the girl as signal that the hunt was over, broke the spell so that she could make the required motions with her pencil and sales pad. On paper the sale might have been in code for all the secrets that it held. 1 Rem. 2.20 1 Rem,...60 1 Rem .85 1 Rem, 1.60 etc. Serena, taking it to recheck, read it thus: Dress for Marie Baby blanket for Margaret Bath robe for Teena Quilt for Mrs, Casoli Breakfast set for the girl at Simpson's Nightgown for Jennie New pillows for Ted's room Two blouses "Charge or cash?" the salesgirl intoned. "Oh, I'll pay for them." Serena presented a check. It was from her son in New York, enclosed with a note: "Please, Mother dear, buy something that you want—something that will make you happy." If he had seen her face as she took her treasure from the clerk, he would have known she had followed his instructions to the letter.