Through the ministrations of women like Florence Nightingale, Dorothea Lynde Dix, Clara Barton, Jane Addams, the humanization of our social institutions has been attained. That woman might take her place in the world of affairs the worthv followers of Mary Woolstonecraft, as Susan B. Anthony, Frances Willard, Anna Howard Shaw, have ever striven to eliminate ignorance, selfishness, and sentimentality from the lives of women, believing that "If women are souls, they are immortal souls. Unless they cooperate in making life better, they will act as a wall to block progress. The place of woman in the world is not to subdue or subordinate but to refine and to improve it". Just as the test of civilization is its estimate of women so civilization is "The power of good women', To the women of today concerned with the needs of the world and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY 289 a vision of God's purposes for mankind comes the challenge of service. Unable to see that they have any service that the world needs, they falter. 'To them comes the reassurring words of the Master: "Ye are the light of the world. Neither do men light a lamp, and put it under a bushel, but on a stand; and it shineth unto all that are in the house. Even so let your light shine'. To all women the words of the familiar parable of the Talents are significant. Each of the servants received something for the use of which he was held strictly accountable. To discover the gift and to use it was the challenge. As Paul said to his young friend Timothy: "Stir into flame the gift of God, which is in thee," which gift is for the purpose of interpreting "the spirit and the faith of Jesus for the world's profit". To the women of the Church, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the supreme gift. None are left out or denied the privilege of a share in it. So it is that the women of the Church by the right use of their gift interpret the faith which is so real to them and so vital to all mankind. The greatest role of the womanhood of the Church is to serve as Interpreter of the Faith. PROMISE By Annie Wells Cannon Unhappy world so full of sorrows Lift up thine eyes.  Behold blue skies Have laughed away the April showers And decked the earth with fragrant flowers. The darkest days have their tomorrows.