THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on April 4 and 5, 1939, in Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. The following sessions were held: An Officers' Meeting, for General, Mission and Stake Officers; four Department Meetings?Social Welfare, Work and Business, Music, and Magazine; a Reception at the Newhouse Hotel, for the combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers; a Reception for Stake and Mission Officers; a Presidents' Breakfast at the Lion House; and two General Sessions in the Tabernacle. The Conference was attended by enthusiastic workers from all of the one hundred twenty-seven stakes and thirteen missions. A special delegation from Hawaii, headed by the General Secretary ? Oahu Relief Society Stake President, Eliza N. Salm, was also present. It was a record-breaking attendance for Relief Society Conference. The roll call showed the following representatives: 13 mission presidents, 105 stake presidents, 148 counselors, 71 secretary-treasurers, 481 board members, making a total of 817.: The music was of outstanding excellence and was furnished by the combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the very able leadership of Professor Wade N. Stephens, with Dr. Frank W. Asper at the great organ, and Alta B. Cassity at the piano. The organ prelude and postlude by Lily Priestly, as well as the artistic musical contributions in the departments by Jessie E. Smith and Mrs. Dilworth Walker, added to the enjoyment of the meetings. Officers ITleeting GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison IT IS with sincere pleasure that we meet you dear sisters in conference. There is always an element of wonder in the realization that you are here?such busy women?such splendid mothers. I realize that you have planned and worked extra long hours that your dear ones will be well cared for in your absence. Your presence indicates, too, that you have prayed as well as planned?prayed for help that you 314 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE might be of greater service to our Father's children. The program arranged for this conference has been prepared with the earnest prayer that each number will be directed by the Holy Spirit, and that you will receive the special help and inspiration which you desire. You sisters are so faithful and loyal. I sometimes wonder if the "earthen vessels" spoken of by Paul, have not become almost transparent porcelain, scarcely retarding the light of the heavenly "treasure" which God, the Father, caused to shine in your hearts. It is certain that a person who uses this treasure for the benefit of others, who has a desire to vitalize the message she carries, must become more and more the personification of the truths she would interpret. We are delighted in having six of our sisters from far away, sunny Oahu Stake with us. We welcome them and hope they will feel the love and friendship which Relief Society members have for each other. There is strength in the feeling that all over the world our Relief Society women are interested in our Organization and are praying for its success. "It is always prayertime somewhere, And across the awakening continents From shore to shore, somewhere, Our prayers are rising evermore." OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison Child Health Day HE General Board solicits your cooperation in the May Day Child Health Day program. Relief Society has been asked by the State Board of Health to be tre sponsible for the program in Utah this year. We have appointed Sister Marcia K. Howells to represent us as State Chairman. In other states you may be invited to participate. The slogan, ""The health of the child is the power of the nation," is certainly a challenge to all Relief Society women to aid this cause. Relief Society Funds We are very happy to tell you that the Presiding Bishopric has made a definite ruling on Relief Society funds in reference to the Ward Budget. The Progress of the Church for February, 1939, makes clear that there is to be no change in our methed of collecting either charity funds Or annual dues, and that our Relief Society general, charity and wheat funds are not to be placed in the Budget. We request ward presidents not to hoard general or charity funds when there are legitimate needs for their use in the wards. By legitimate needs we mean such things as the health of pregnant women and the welfare of children. Interested as we are in the missionary cause, Relief Society funds are not to be used to make gifts to missionaries if a child in the ward needs milk or medical attention to help it meet life with a stronger body and would be deprived of this aid if funds were used for other purposes. Auxiliary Enlistment Census Stake Presidents! Have the auxiljary organizations in your wards taken the general Auxiliary Enlistment Census which we asked to have made last fall? The forms were sent to you at quite an expense, thinking this census would be most helpful in the Membership Drive. The Sunday School Superintendent was placed in charge of this under the direction of the bishops with all the auxiliaries assisting. Two of the organizations were to have the original and the other two the duplicate copies of the census in order to SCENE FROM RECEPTION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MISSION AND STAKE OFFICERS check their membership. We trust that stakes have completed this survey and used the information obtained. Preparation For Missions An appeal has come to us to urge mothers to teach their sons how to take care of themselves before they go on missions. So few know how to make their own beds, to wash their clothes or do the simplest cooking. These things are necessary to the health of the missionary. Mothers are proud of their sons or daughters when called on missions, and they 316 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can make that mission more pleasant and the missionary more useful if they do their part in preparing these fine young people for this great experience. Although Relief Society has urged Scriptural study in the home, it is surprising how many missionaries are handicapped because they know so little about the Scriptures. One mother thought she was helping her son when she made the plea that he be not called upon to pray, saying, "It would scare him to death for he has never prayed." Surely this was not a Relief Society mother! Issuing Checks We are asking again that checks issued by Relief Society be countersigned; that the President and Secretary know the amount of funds the Organization has in the bank, and that both of these sisters sign every check. Mormon Handicraft The Mormon Handicraft has developed splendidly. We are sorry it is necessary to return some articles which do not come up to our standards. Please help the sisters to have more supervision in the wonderful native ability which they possess. In order to standardize our work and to develop greater skill in handwork the General Board has called in a group of outstanding women who act as an advisory committee. We strongly advise this same procedure in the stakes and wards. Select the most capable women in your communities and meet with them at regular periods. You will be surprised and delighted with the new ideas you will receive and the enthusiasm your groups will enjoy. Deseret Industries We are happy to tell you that the Deseret Industries are doing a fine service in supplying work?with a small wage?to people who are not otherwise employed. Will you please advise people to buy from Deseret Industries rather than from installment houses. There are fine mattresses, articles of furniture and used clothing for sale. Unlike the Bishop's Store House where merchandise is obtained on a bishop's order, the Deseret Industries sell to anyone and at very modest prices. Arrangements can be made where reliable people can pay for goods purchased, by the week or month. Alcohol Education We are greatly interested in the Church campaign for alcohol education. Brother Joseph F. Mernill, who is in charge of this work, desires to know how generally the three small books dealing with this subject have been read in your homes by all members of the family. Brother Merrill has asked the Relief Society sisters to stimulate interest in this project. Weare not required to collect money for these valuable little books, but will you stake presidents please advise your ward presidents to ask the visiting teachers to familiarize themselves with this important subject and carry the information into the homes on their regular visits. Schools are excellent mediums for ? teaching children and young people the harmful effects of alcohol as a beverage. Laws in many of the states provide for this important instruction. We hope the Relief Societies will sponsor the study of the laws of your respective states, and where provision is made for such instruction that you will see that it is put into effect. Popularize it by stimulating other organizations to join with you in calling upon school RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 317 RECEIVING LINE AT RECEPTION boards and school superintendents. If young people knew what alcohol does to the body, it would certainly be a great deterrent against beginning this terribly destructive habit. Expenditures of Annual Dues To clarify a misunderstanding we would like to tell you that the money for entertainments given by the General Board does not come from the annual dues. The annual dues are spent solely for the benefit of Relief Society work. Out of the annual dues we pay for the visiting teachers' books; out of the annual dues we pay for our visits to the stakes; out of the annual dues the secretary's office sends to you our instructions and helps, but please know that annual dues are not spent for any kind of party. MY dear mission presidents, stake officers and board members, I express the appreciation of the members of the General Board for your splendid leadership. We are grate. Ful for your loyalty, for your gracious kindness to us when we visit your missions and stakes. Above all we thank our Heavenly Father for your spirituality and for the unselfish service to His children. May He continue to bless you and sustain you in your wonderful work of love, I humbly pray. 318 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SOCIAL WELFARE INSTITUTES Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin AM happy and thrilled to have the privilege of attending this meeting. Frankly speaking, I do not know of a group of people who have in their meetings such an atmosphere of faith and of spirituality as is found in the Relief Society meetings of this great Church. In the life of your first President, Sister Emma Smith, there is exemplified the spirit of this great Organization. A short time ago I was reading of the exodus of our people from the State of Missouri to Illinois. Having had the privilege of covering some of that territory, I deeply appreciate what our people passed through during that terrible experience. They were driven out in the middle of the night by the mob, with very little notice in order to make the proper preparation. Sister Emma Smith and her family were among these people. The President of the Church was in prison; and when the mob came to her home she gathered together her small children and a few household effects, put them into a wagon, and made the journey to the site of Nauvoo. After she arrived in Nauvoo and had established herself as best she could with her family, there being no one there to help her, the brethren of the Church who were not in prison said: "Now, Sister Smith, we have left behind in Missourl many of our brothers and sisters who are not able to come to Illinois because they have no means of transportation." Sister Smith said: "Take my wagon, take my team, take anything I have; go back to Missouri and bring those people to Illinois." This good woman, in her distress, had not forgotten those who were left behind; she gladly gave of the things she had to make it possible for the Saints in Missouri to come to Illinois. Then, I think, too, of the many fine contributions of this great Organization to the Church. To me you represent the true spirit of the Good Samaritan. I am sure there is no one who ever makes a call upon a Relief Society president, be she a stake or ward president, but that the call is answered?answered to the utmost in every way that will be for the good and benefit of those who may be in need of assistance. You have a wonderful program?a program that contemplates something more than just the physical problems of our people?a program that takes into consideration the matter of health, of education, the right kind of recreation, employment, community welfare, and above everything else, spiritual welfare. You have afforded to many women in the Church, and I dare say to some outside of it, opportunities and privileges that they could never have enjoyed had it not been for the Relief Society organization. I do not suppose that you will ever know how much happiness and real joy you have brought into the homes of many of the women of this Church because of the wonderful program that you have. The Church is making some progress relative to the problems that confront us. There is no use in denying that we have problems?serious problems. Only Sunday I saw a survey made in the United States, and if I remember the figures correctly, this was what was reported: Part of the population of this great country have a month's reserves on hand in case they were thrown out of employment. Another part of the population of this great country have enough reserves in the way of cash and food to carry them for six months if they were thrown out of employment. The conclusion of the survey was, that if something should happen in this country whereby all of these people who are now on relief projects, those who have some employment, and those who have reserves from one to six months were suddenly thrown out of work, over half of the population would be dependent upon the Government or someone else for assistance. So we have a great national problem; and as a Church we have our problems. The President of the Church and his Counselors have decided that the Church should solve this problem as far as our people are concerned. Some two and a half or three years ago the great Church Welfare Program was inaugurated, the first objective being to take care of our people, the physical needs to be provided, such as fuel, clothing, and food; and that has been done in a most magnificent way. The contributions of our agricultural stakes in the way of food have been most generous. The city stakes made cash contributions and contributions of clothing. By cooperating as a great Church we have been able to reach, in a large measure, the first objective.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 319
The second objective has been that we provide employment. It was never intended that the Church Welfare Program should become a dole, but rather an institution that would take care of our people temporarily, and then give them something to do, the right to earn their bread by the sweat of their brow. This is the objective we are struggling for, and I am sure in time we shall achieve it. In consideration of some of the problems in connection with the Church Welfare Program the Presiding Bishopric has made some studies. We have made surveys in some of our wards. We selected a ward that was fairly well-to-do and went over the list of families being assisted by the bishopric of the ward. This bishopric was issuing relief in the form of cash, which is contrary to the spirit of the Church Welfare Program. We discovered that in some instances individuals were receiving cash allowances in amounts ranging from $25 to $50 per month, and that in some cases they were also receiving assistance from other agencies. Then we asked that a survey be made of a ward in which there were many cases where people were on WPA projects, and many who were wholly dependent upon the ward. This particular ward was one that might be classified as not a well-to-do ward. We discovered that the bishop had fifty cases and that 29 of them were receiving assistance from outside agencies, either employed by WPA or receiving some assistance from outside agencies such as the County. So with these two surveys in our office, we wondered if it would not be a good thing
320 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to inaugurate a plan whereby we could know, whereby the bishop of the ward could know, that those who are receiving assistance from the Church were receiving it because they were worthy of it, and that there would not be any duplication of assistance. With these thoughts in mind, and after considering the matter very carefully with the General Welfare Committee, it was decided that we would inaugurate a plan whereby our sisters could receive some fundamental training in social welfare work. It was decided that we would make a beginning in the Salt Lake Region. From this Region we would branch out until eventually every stake in the Church would have in its organization some sisters who would be trained along the lines of social welfare work, that they might do this work in an intelligent, systematic way, and give this information to the bishops of the wards. In the Salt Lake Region we instituted a training class under the direction of the General Presidency of the Relief Society and their Board. This class has now met possibly five or six times; and here, under the direction of Sister Amy B. Lyman and Sister Amy W. Evans and others, these sisters are being given the fundamentals that I have already mentioned to you. In making a study of their outlines I have noted two or three points which to me are most interesting and vital in this great work of understanding people and of knowing how to approach them in connection with their most intimate problems. In this outline it is contemplated first that the individual making the survey in connection with the family shall have a complete understanding of the relationship between the Relief Society and the bishop. I should like to say a word about the bishop and his position in the Church. In the ward he is the common judge in Israel; he is the presiding authority, and all projects and movements are under his direction. The auxiliary organizations of the Church, such as the Relief Society, Primary and the Mutual Improvement Association are helps and aids to him in seeing that the Church program is carried forward. No auxiliary organization ever takes precedence over the bishop, and I am sure, Sister Robison, that there is no group in the Church who understands this more thoroughly than these loyal, devoted sisters. I presided over a ward during the darkest days of the depression. Over night there was thrust upon the shoulders of the bishopric forty families, and I want to say to you, we were lost. If it had not been for the fine Relief Society president and Relief Society organization pointing out the way, I am confident we would have had many problems that would not have been solved; we leaned entirely upon the Relief Society organization. We provided the food and clothing and all the necessities. They saw that this was properly distributed. They visited families for us and brought back reports which were most helpful. So, in connection with this work you aid the bishop. You are responsible to him. And no doubt, in connection with the project I am going to present to you in a moment, he will direct your efforts and prescribe more or less the plan he wants followed in his ward. In connection with this training class, there are some fundamentals which are most pertinent to the successful carrying on of this important welfare work. First, the ability of the worker to keep strictly confidential the affairs of the people being helped. There are individuals in the Church, who because of their pride, hate to go to the bishop and confess that they are in need, but when such is the case and the bishop calls in his Relief Society president and tells her of this situation, then the obligation rests upon her to keep absolutely confidential all matters pertaining to the family involved. This is one of the most important qualifications of a worker, for a worker who cannot keep the confidence of her people soon loses her influence with them, and she will not be successful. When this call comes to your stake under the direction of the General Board, I am sure this particular phase of the work will be given special emphasis. There is the matter of good judgment. I would like to say this in connection with the needs of the people of our Church?their home needs, their physical needs?there is no one better qualified to determine what these needs are than you mothers, the managers of homes. You know more about these matters than we men, so your judgment should be good. In passing, let me read to you a statement in connection with good judgment: "The worker should be able to make plans that are practicable. She should not be overemotional, as it is a well known fact that too much emotion interferes with good judgment. Nor should she be too impulsive, but should
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 321
be able to think through a situation carefully before acting." I am sure this statement is most pertinent to the work you are called to do. There is the matter of tact. "Thoughtfulness for the feelings of others, and a kind attitude toward them is an essential element in the personality of a worker." I should like to digress here long enough to tell you a little story where the feelings of some good people were sorely hurt. There was a Priesthood quorum in the Church who knew that one of its members was in distress, and out of goodness of heart purchased fine pieces of clothing for this man and his good wife. Then with the very best of intentions, and without consulting the man or his wife, these articles of clothing were presented to them unexpectedly. It almost broke the heart of the woman. She was proud and did not know anyone knew of her condition. Had someone gone into that home and talked the matter through with them and found out what their needs were, with tact and diplomacy, no doubt these articles could have been given to them and would have been accepted with no one's feelings being hurt. The matter of thinking of the feelings of people is essential, and I am sure there is no one who can approach these problems with finer tact and diplomacy than the women of the great Relief Society Organization. Here is another point found in the outline of the General Board: "Sympathy and tolerance: Real sympathy says little but does much. To be tolerant a worker should be able to suspend judgment until all the facts are known and both sides
322 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the question considered?never condemn a person unheard; and she should be able to see the other's point of view." I am sure that is splendid advice. These workers should have the ability to work with others and to work under direction. As I said in the beginning, you will work under the direction of the bishop and the president of the stake. If I am not mistaken, it is the intention of the Relief Society to give this assignment of visiting families and making the survey of the ward to the Relief Society president; and should she not be able to do this work, she and the bishop should select a person ideally fitted for it. In the next place, the worker should have a real liking for the work she is called to do, and the suggestion comes that she should have good native intelligence and a wholesome personality. I am sure there is no group of women in the world who have more native intelligence than those found in Relief Society, and every woman who comes in contact with this Organization develops personality. Here is the meat of this whole outline?the important thing. Through this suggestion comes the achievement of our second objective, that people shall be taught to help and assist themselves. The Church Welfare Program is not a dole. "Put into every man's heart a sense of his own supreme worth in the sight of God"?that is the spiritual side. Respect for the individual and for his personality and character is a fundamental principle in the art of helping. It aims to maintain the self-respect of the individual?to help in such a way that he will not suffer undue humiliation. The next aim should be to maintain his morale so that he will not lose his desire for independence and allow others to do for him what he could do for himself. People must be taught, and we must encourage them to keep their independence, and not allow us or anyone else to do something for them that they can do for themselves. There is no question but that the program of the past seven or eight years relative to relief has had a demoralizing effect upon the American people, because the people have had things done for them in many instances where they could have done for themselves. In the Church Program it is our intention to see that everyone does what he can for himself, and remove from his mind and thoughts the idea that he is dependent upon someone. Any normal individual may require temporary assistance, that is true. The first objective of the Church Welfare Program was to furnish temporary assistance in the form of food and shelter and clothing, but to keep him in a state of dependence when he could maintain himself is a crime against the individual as well as the society which supports him. It robs society of the kind of people who make a self-sustaining social order possible, and causes the individual to sell his birthright for a mess of pottage. You have had contact with families who will permit you to take care of them indefinitely. They will permit you to do everything that you possibly can for them without making any effort to assist themselves. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we want to go back to the fundamentals of the pioneers and teach our people, in so far as it is possible, to stand squarely upon their own feet, and to meet the issues as best they can, with the assurance that there is always someone interested in them to the extent that they will not have to go hungry. The Relief Society keeps in mind this principle in the care of the needy. Its efforts will always build up rather than destroy those qualities in personality which contribute to the welfare of the individual and through him to society. In looking over the annual report of the Relief Society for the year 1938, I find that you practice what you preach. Many people have come to the office of the General Board for assistance, and here is what you have done: 3,877 women applied for work; 3,375 employers were solicited for work, and there were 2,680 women placed in employment. That is real rehabilitation, and if we could just accomplish throughout the Church what is being accomplished in the Relief Society in this particular connection, I am sure we would preserve the independence of all our people who find themselves in need. As I said in the beginning, this matter of making investigations is a serious one that must be done in all kindness; and if, after you have made an investigation for a bishop, he refuses to follow your suggestions, do not feel hurt. You have done your duty. You have fulfilled your assignment. There is just another word in connection with finances. The finances that are used to take care of our people and the finances of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 323
Church Welfare Program come from the tithes. To me tithing is the most sacred money that anyone can handle. Taxes are sacred, but tithing is far more sacred because it belongs to the Lord. It represents the widow's mite, and it also represents the large income of the rich man. We must handle it most intelligently so that the dollars will go as far as possible. As time goes on, as I said, the Relief Society Board will come into your stakes and bring to you this program. It had its beginning in the Salt Lake Region composed of sixteen stakes, and I am sure it is going to produce for us some splendid results. I sincerely trust that the Lord will bless and sustain you in your great work. Your faith and loyalty to the Church are an inspiration. I met a man in the Temple grounds yesterday as this great crowd of Singing Mothers emerged from the Tabernacle. He was a stranger within our gates, and he asked, "Who are all these women?" "They are Singing Mothers of the Relief Society." He said, "It must cost the Church a great amount of money to bring them here and pay them to sing." I said, "They are not paid; they pay their own transportation, coming from the remote parts of the Church, and paying all expenses." He said, "I cannot believe it; I do not know how that can be possible." But I told him such was the case, and that they were glad to come, feeling it a privilege to serve the Church. I pray the Lord to bless and continue to inspire you in this great work.
324 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
PROGRESS OF THE 1938 MEMBERSHIP DRIVE By Rae B. Barker
ONE-FOURTH of our time for membership building has slipped by. Are we one-fourth nearer our objective? Whatever the result, it is the combined effort, successes and disappointments of all of us. The kind of report you want to hear, of course, would be one of progress. It is one of progress. There are some gratifying highlights of splendid achievement. Those ranking highest, in the order of their increase in numbers are: Western States Mission, Los Angeles, South Davis, Carbon, Blackfoot, Smithfield, Grant, Oakland, Pioneer, Tooele and Wells. From the standpoint of percentage of increase, Los Angeles and Western States Mission more than satisfied their four-year quotas. South Davis and Oakland completed their three-year quotas. However, this is not a complete picture, for the report as a whole has its hills and valleys. Those groups just mentioned reached the hill-tops; others are still climbing. Some are resting on the plateaus; others have slipped down a little into the valleys?they have lost rather than gained. The membership increase for 1937 was two thousand. Our increase for 1938 was a little above five thousand, one thousand more being needed for this year's quota. Emphasis placed on membership the past year has definitely accelerated our rate of growth. Numbers never tell the whole story. They fail to show the handicaps you struggled with in localities of varied conditions, or the splendid spirit with which you set out to do the work. Your original ideas and ingenuity would indicate that many used the old but practical formula for success, "Do what you can, where you are, with what you have." From various reports we glean the following pertinent observations: 1. Stake presidents realized that the attitude of the head spreads through the entire body. They accepted the membership assignment as an important one and entrusted the actual work to capable coordinators backed by the support of the stake board. 2. The most fruitful methods included personal contact work carried on through the cooperation of the visiting teachers and of the class leaders assisted by small special committees, all acting with the help and direction of the coordinators. 3. It was an incentive to excel when each ward coordinator knew that her individual results in the drive would be given in a suitable stake gathering. 4. Many organizations recognized big possibilities for attracting new members through the new course, Education for Family Life. In one class there are thirty women who have never belonged to Relief Society, another has twenty, and there are many others with similar numbers. Its appeal particularly to young parents has met with most favorable response. Perhaps to some stakes that have made very little increase in membership, this may suggest a new source for increase. Five thousand sisters have affiliated with us for the first time this year. Will we keep them with us? The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us a helpful clue when he said to the Nauvoo Relief Society this, in effect, if you want to lead people into new ways, take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness. Further he said, "When any person manifests the least kindness and love to me, oh what a power it has over my mind." Perhaps we could stress a little more in our organizations bonding (cementing) through friendliness. Another thought worthy of our reflection is that all we may say to publicize Relief Society must be backed by the best organization work we are capable of doing. We
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 325
may work diligently to attract women to our meetings, but the worthwhileness of the meeting itself will be the final answer as to whether we hold those whom we attract. Do you see membership building as an opportunity to share with others the priceless thing you enjoy?do you see it as Relief Society's way of spreading the blessings of the Gospel? If we have enjoyed choice privileges because of Relief Society experiences, perhaps we should remember the Savior's words to Peter: "When thou art converted strengthen thy brother." We give our love to the five thousand new members of 1938 and extend our hands to yet other thousands during the coming year. The address "Builders In Action" by Bessie Redding will appear in a later issue.
Social Welfare Department Counselor Amy B. Lyman, Chairman
FAMILY CONSERVATION AN AIM OF THE CHURCH WELFARE DEPARTMENT Clyde C. Edmonds, General Welfare Committee
I HOPE I have a proper conception of what was expected when the subject, Family Conservation an Aim of the Church Welfare Program was assigned to me. I like to think of the Welfare Program in terms of the Lord helping those who help themselves. Sometimes I wonder whether people have lost the spirit of the faithful and a willingness to do, particularly when things stack up against them and they become discouraged. It would be a fine thing if all people had the attitude that it is all right to ask for blessings, provided they are also willing to work for these blessings. I sincerely believe we should approach our problems from the point of view that the Lord will help those who are willing to help themselves. That is another way of saying, "Charity begins at home," and is the angle from which I would like to discuss the problem. Have the necessary adjustments been made in homes where misfortune may have fallen? Have family members squared themselves to their problems? Have they taken the atti-
326 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tude that adjustments must be made, or are they assuming that the world owes them a living? The sheriff told me that not so long ago he went into a certain section of the state to repossess an automobile. When he approached the home, he was absolutely dumbfounded. It was a two-room house, and there were five or six children. All was confusion in the home. Mattresses were strewn on the floor of one room, where all of the family slept; they were living in the other room. Yet, here was a man driving a Pierce-Arrow automobile. The sheriff said, "I must ask you why you bought such an expensive automobile." The man pointed across the fields and said, "Over there is my neighbor who has a fine automobile. My children are just as good as his and are entitled to enjoy just as fine things; during the time we had the automobile we enjoyed it." I think these people failed to recognize that in order to achieve their purposes they should have adjusted themselves to their circumstances and tried to make the condition within the home better instead of putting all they had in an automobile. I like the thought of cooperation within the family, a division of responsibility, so that everyone senses the fact that he has definite work to do, and that the harmony of the home depends upon his doing it. I believe one way out of family difficulties is through cooperation. When we discuss our problems and make them family problems, we will be able to bring about better adjustments. I think the problem of many of us is just the lack of good old thrift. When I think of what my mother did as a widow on a very meager income, I am truly ashamed that I have not achieved more. My plea is to make thrift the theme song of rehabilitation. I like the idea of a family budget. Plenty of our people do not know what we mean by a budget. It is determining how we are going to let our money be spent, and what we intend to achieve through the budget; and once we live by it, we will be surprised how well things work out. Our Church leaders have always told us to live within our means in order that we shall not be caught in a very unfavorable position. I like the idea of trying to catch a vision of the real values, the genuine values, the things that mean most to us in the final analysis. Our ideals are the things that are really worth while in life. Let us implant them in our lives and in the lives of our children and help them to appreciate the fine things that mean so much in making a rich life. I think about this a great deal when speaking about living within our means. I have two very fine friends. Both of these men at the present time are earning about the same amount of money. In one home you find system, order, convenience, with things in a reasonable state of repair. The four children are well dressed, neat and clean. The father and mother are doing their duty and measuring up to the requirements made of them in the ward. Altogether you find a very pleasing, happy environment. In the other friend's home exactly the opposite condition exists. The front door-yard reveals things as they are throughout?a poorly governed family and poor management within the home. The husband works hard and earns a reasonably adequate income, but there is poor organization somewhere?a lack of cooperation; something is wrong. These two homes have almost identical incomes, but the families are different types. There is a job to do with the one family?they should be taught home management and the value of a budget. I WONDER if there is not a general shifting of pride in the human family. In the past a great deal of time and thought was given to our homes and surroundings. We enjoyed having our friends come to see us so that they might also enjoy our very comfortable and pleasant, though often humble, surroundings. Has pride shifted from the home and its surroundings to the automobile! It would be a good thing if the shift could be turned partially back till the home and families find real pride and satisfaction in beautiful surroundings?a garden?let us even be thrifty enough to say a vegetable garden. We do not see these as often as we used to, and that is one of the things we should consider in a return to thrift. As I travel over this country, I come back to Utah chagrined over conditions I have seen in our communities as compared with what I have seen in other states. Have we failed to realize the need for a cheerful and pleasing environment? As you drive home, check up, and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 327
you will find far more unpainted than painted homes in the large communities. Look at the fences along the highway and see if you can take pride in the surroundings. When you do find a beautifully kept place, it is like an oasis in a desert. What is the matter? Have we lost pride in our homes? Have our standards of living allowed us to sink to such a level that we do not see what is all around us? Have we become accustomed to run-down conditions in the midst of which we live? I have never been able to understand why a fence is allowed to fall down. Keeping things in repair takes a few hours, of course, but the satisfaction that comes from the improved appearance more than pays for the time spent. I cannot help but wonder if children brought up in an untidy home, growing up in careless surroundings, do not later reflect this carelessness. I urge that we devise ways and means of improving our homes, so that our children may have greater pride in them and a desire to bring their friends to the home instead of going away from it. One of the cardinal points in the Welfare Program of the Church is the raising of the standards of living. I believe we ought to keep that uppermost in our minds and influence our neighbors to make Utah communities, by which the Mormon people are judged, a little more cheerful, bright and attractive. If we can get this message over to our people I am sure we will have achieved our purpose. The addresses "What Relief Society Has Contributed To Family Welfare" by Amy W. Evans and "Problems of Modern Family Life" by Caroline M. Hendricks will appear in a later issue.
Work and Business Department Lalene H. Hart, Chairman
ONE feature of the Work and Business Department was an exhibit showing what has been and can be accomplished in the field of nutrition. A demonstration of food preparation and preservation proved very attractive as well as educational. The stakes participating under the direction of Mrs. Ivy L. Hall were Highland, Cottonwood, Wells, Grant, Oquirrh, West Jordan and East Jordan.
INTERPRETING HOMEMAKING THROUGH WORK AND BUSINESS By Anna S. Barlow
IT is the ambition of every Latter-day Saint woman to make her home a place where family members live together in love and harmony; a place in which they take pride; a place where their minds, souls and bodies are daily recreated for greater accomplishment. Modern life gives us an opportunity to make our homes fulfill their highest purpose?that of producing happy citizens, physically, mentally, spiritually healthy and sensitive to their social responsibilities. In assuming their tasks as homemakers mothers are more and more realizing that knowledge, training, preparation, and constant effort are essential to success. The Work and Business Department is immediately concerned with providing knowledge and training in the practical phases of homemaking. It will always be the function of the Relief Society to sew for the needy on Work and Business day, but because of urgent needs and insistent demands other programs have been inaugurated. At the present time throughout the United States people are becoming more and more conscious of the importance of proper food supplies, food habits, and regulated appetites. People are becoming more and more concerned with malnutrition of infants and children. Dorothy Thompson, famous news commentator, in a recent magazine article entitled Children Starve in This Land of Plenty said that from one-eighth to one-fifth of all children in the United States are undernourished. The course of study suggested last year by the General Board, Selection and Preparation of Food for Nutrition, has been taken up in many stakes with success. It is suggested by the General Board that for the coming year we continue this study, and it is hoped that those who have not taken the course will do so. The following subjects have been selected as a suggestive course: Year's Food Supply. Food Sanitation. Clean Dishes. Selection and Preparation of Vegetables. Efficient Kitchen for Food Preparation. Food Habits and Appetites. Safe Cleaning Suggestions. School Lunches. Preservation. ANEMIA It is suggested that the plan given last year for conducting the course be used this coming year. We refer you to the May Magazine for 1938. Material will be compiled, with lists of pamphlets included, and sent to stake presidents in the near future; these lists will also be published in the Magazine. Additional material may be published in the Magazine from time to time. It is suggested that stake Work and Business leaders contact their
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 329
own Boards of Health and agricultural colleges for additional material on these subjects. Libraries, current magazines and newspapers will be profitable sources of information. What greater objective could the Work and Business department have than that of aiding mothers in the problem of developing physically healthy family members. The address, Guarding the Family Health, by Elna Miller will appear in a later issue.
Choristers and Organists Department Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
A LARGE group of choristers and organists attended the Music Department, and the interest and enthusiasm manifested by them gives promise of a most successful future for Relief Society musical activities. With our objective for 1939-1940 in mind?to improve the quality, the character and the effectiveness of music in all of our Relief Society organizations?the Music Department presented the following program: Ida Peterson Beal spoke to the subject, "Ten Minutes?They Are Yours," and stressed the importance of the ten minute song practice. Beatrice F. Stevens, not only a writer of verse but also a composer of music, introduced two new songs, The Work We're Called To Do and Our Father In Heaven, Thy Praises We Sing, composed especially for our Relief Society women. The latter song is dedicated to President Louise Y. Robison. We are indeed indebted to Sister Stevens for her valuable contributions to the new song book. Professor Wade N. Stephens, Assistant Tabernacle Organist, discussed "Fundamentals of Conducting". A full report of his talk will be given in a later issue of the Magazine. Another feature of the program was the introduction of a new Easter song. The words of this particular number were taken from the Magazine and were penned by Estelle Webb Thomas, which she titled "The Resurrection". Professor Stephens graciously consented to compose the music, and we are delighted to have it among our collection of new songs. We sincerely appreciate the earnest, untiring efforts of mission, stake and ward choristers and organists. We are grateful for the work that has been accomplished in elevating Relief Society music to a higher level,
330 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in developing a greater appreciation for it and in stimulating among our members a desire for better music. We are deeply grateful for the Relief Society Singing Mothers and are indebted to them for their outstanding contribution to the Organization, for their loyalty, cooperation and good will. The committee is zealously working on the new Relief Society Song Book, and missions, stakes and wards will be notified when it is ready for distribution.
TEN MINUTES?THEY ARE YOURS By Ida Peterson Beal
"WITHOUT practice there can be no interest, and without interest there can be no progress." Here indeed is a challenge! Our music directors must accept it. Ten minutes of the regular Relief Society meeting, except the first Tuesday of the month, have been given to choristers and organists for song practice time. Make these ten golden minutes pay a rich dividend in better singing and in a keener and deeper appreciation of our hymns and good music in general. In order to make them profitable the chorister and the organist must be united in their aims. The work for each Tuesday should be well planned. Be conversant with the songs you plan to teach. Choristers, know the words of the hymns so that you may have your eyes on the singers. Know the tempo and beat time correctly. Observe the marks of expression, emphasize them, and make them effective. Draw attention to the beauty of the words?they are sermons. Do not attempt too many songs for one practice. The organist should play the hymns without errors, giving a full rich tone so that the singers may hear the harmonies accurately. She, too, should observe carefully the marks of expression. Endeavor to have altos and sopranos well balanced. Stress proper posture and breathing?this is very essential. Never nag! Praise brings about better results. The personality of the chorister is felt by the singers. Give them the leadership they need, and the results will be very gratifying. Choristers and organists should study the Magazine carefully. A knowledge of the lesson material is important. It will give you the theme on which you base the selection of hymns for the day. Do not neglect this correlation; it has a definite place in your preparation. There is much good material in the Magazine for the instruction of music leaders. You must not fail your ward presidency. Your preparation for your ten minutes must be as painstaking and accurate as that manifested by the wide-awake class leaders. Your part is important, and in the great scheme of Relief Society you must establish the value of good music. It has been said that singing gives "tone" to the meeting. The ward presidency have confidence in your ability; do not disappoint them. Seek divine guidance, greet your opportunities and gratefully acknowledge your part in improving the glorious gift of song.
Magazine Department Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
MY CALLING By Eleanor S. Muir
I AM happy that my calling is identified with the Relief Society Magazine. I want to share the joy of its possession and its high ideals with every Latter-day Saint woman in my stake. My goal is not percentages. Percentages are useful as a barometer; they tell a story; they tell me whether or not we are a little closer to our real goal. Our real goal is to build homes by placing in them a magazine which carries vital messages every month. How can we be sure of success in our Magazine work? To me the answer is organization. As stake Magazine agents we should first plan our own program, then assist the ward agents to make plans, giving them as much help as possible in the execution of these plans. Then comes the check-up. I think success is more assured if some member of the stake board is responsible for the Magazine all of the time, rather than having the work assigned to some member during the the Drive and then letting it drift the remainder of the year. 'The Magazine work is year around work. There are many obstacles which beset the path of a Magazine representative. The greatest of these is perhaps a wrong mental attitude toward the work. If a representative approaches her work feeling that she does not care much for it and is only doing it because it is her duty, then she fails before she has started. If she has the attitude that only half the women in her ward can afford the Magazine, then without doubt her results will be disappointing. Low incomes do not necessarily mean low sales percentages, for there is a great desire for spirituality and culture among the low income groups of our Church. I consider the complete cooperation of the ward presidency of vital importance. In the Union meeting department we have dealt with such subjects as: Promotion of Good Reading, Personality in Your Work, Business-like Procedure, How to Approach People, Follow-up Work, The Need of the Magazine, Our Magazine and Its Editorial Policy, and Human Interest Back of the Magazine. The ward agents report on their work every month. Prior to launching the Drive, I hold a Pep Rally at my home with the ward agents and ward presidents. At this time I give the agents their instructions: First, the specific instructions which come from the General Board; second, the additional instructions and suggestions necessary to make our: stake Drive successful. In addition to the free subscriptions given by the General Board, the stake also gives free subscriptions and a framed award. I don't know of any magic tricks whereby the Magazine may be sold. But I do know we must be enthusiastic and energetic; we must do our work for the joy we find in it. The Magazine has no tongue but our tongues, no hands but our hands, no feet but our feet; so it is our calling to promote its circulation. 332 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SELLING By Edith Wilson WHEN I was called to work as Magazine agent in my ward, I felt very humble. Our percentage of subscriptions was low, and this was my first experience in selling. So before undertaking my work, I asked my Heavenly Father to bless me that I might be able to accomplish the thing which I had been called upon to do. It is very necessary to be orderly in keeping a record of subscribers. I have a book used only for this purpose. On one page are the names of those whose subscriptions begin in January, another page is for February, and so on through the year. When it is nearly time for them to renew their subscriptions I remind them?early enough for them to put away the dollar. I watch for people who move into the ward and for new members and workers in the Relief Society. I try to become acquainted with them before I call at their homes. I try to learn what their interests are. When I call at the home I try to lead the sister to talk about her interests before I mention the Magazine. Often there is some article in the Magazine that contains information on the very thing in which she is most interested. I appreciate having the visiting teachers speak of the value of the Magazine in the homes they visit. Talks given in Relief Society and Sacrament meeting are of great help also. Every non-subscriber has a reason for not taking the Magazine, so I try to prepare to meet every objection. For example, some people say, "I cannot afford to take it." I explain to them that it costs less than g cents a copy. Some of the mothers tell me they are now taking too many magazines. I tell them this magazine is different because every one in the family will enjoy reading it. I suggest leaving one of my magazines in the home, saying I will call later for it. I find I get many subscriptions this way. Where the mother is not a member of our Relief Society, and so feels she has no need of the Magazine, I explain about our Organization and also tell her about the contents of the Magazine. Here again I leave a copy. I find that if she subscribes, she usually becomes a member of our Society sooner or later, and I feel this is real missionary work. I always get in touch with new subscribers and ask them if they are receiving their magazines and if they enjoy reading them. I often suggest some interesting article to them. I never feel discouraged if I fail to get a subscription the first time I call. I manage to call again and again and find it always pays. I try to make the sisters feel that they are not just paying out money for a periodical but that the Relief Society Magazine is really a messenger, sent to their homes to deliver a real, tangible blessing in the form of good will and valuable truths from our leaders who are inspired by the Lord. The address ?The Magazine a Medium For Growth" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson will appear in a later issue. General Session? Morning THE CHURCH OF MY CHOICE By Jennie B. Knight IT IS to Dr. George H. Brimhall that I am indebted not only for the choice of my church but also for the outline for this talk. One day while in my teens I said to him, "Father, you think I am a Mormon, but I am not and do not intend to be one." His wise answer calmed my rebellious heart and gave me food for thought. Putting his arm around me, he said: "If being a Mormon won't give my little girl more happiness than anything else in the world, I don't want her to be a Mormon." That was all, and the subject was never referred to again. As. The years have passed and I have been privileged to attend a church school, to work in the various auxiliary organizations, and to be present at church gatherings, I have found some characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that are not common to other churches. First: Our church is linked to heaven by divine authority. I believe that the same God who spoke to Moses in the burning bush and gave him commandments on Mount Sinai spoke to Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. Second: My church glorifies intelligence and declares that willful ignorance is a bar to salvation; that "the glory of God is intelligence, or in other words light and truth." Third: It holds sacred the free agency of man, giving every individual a right to go to God for himself, "Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." (Doctrine and Covenants Section 93:1.) Fourth: My church provides for progress?eternal progress?through continuous revelation to those whose duty it is to administer church affairs. It accepts scientific discovery as part of God's truth and adopts that which is advantageous to the spreading of the Gospel or improvement of its members. It encourages its members to seek knowledge from all sources; to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books and with languages, tongues and people. Fifth: It recognizes recreation as pleasing to God. No ward is complete without its Primary festivals, Relief Society socials, Old Folks' gatherings and Priesthood outings. It has such confidence in youth that it has given the supervision of recreation to the young people. Sixth: We have our sacred temples where youth, maturity and old age meet in a common cause. Couples are here married for time and eternity; others are working for their dead. Seventh: My church honors and respects women; it grants them every opportunity for development in spiritual, intellectual and social 334 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lines. This great Relief Society was organized by the Prophet. Its weekly programs are unsurpassed; its avenues for service are unlimited. I rejoice in my affiliation with it; it has helped me to better appreciate my blessings. I understand now that my father knew the Mormon church and its value. Now I know some of the outstanding characteristics of the church of my choice ? a place where faith in God will increase, where a love of Jesus Christ and His Gospel will grow, where a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is to be had, where there is freedom through right living, growth by self-effort, happiness through altruistic service.  THE GOSPEL?A PRACTICAL WAY OF LIFE By Cora L. Bennion THE Savior said, "I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly." The abundant life is realized through the practical application of ? the principles which Jesus taught as implied in another of his notable sayings, "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." And again this knowledge is gained through obedience as indicated in another passage in the Gospel according to John, when Jesus answered the doubting multitude as he taught in the temple, "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." The practical values of the Gospel are especially emphasized in the Epistle of James. He wrote: "What doth it profit my brethren though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say to them, depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. The same author tells us that, "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." This view of religion applies very directly to the purposes of the Relief Society. Women of this Organization have given generously of their time and strength both in pioneer days and also in recent times, in caring for the needs of the people, but what does it mean to keep oneself unspotted from the world? P Evidently it means to live in accordance with the moral teachings of the Gospel and to keep free from the sins of the world. This, however, is no real sacrifice since it is the only road to the enduring satisfactions of life, and to that joy which it was designed by the Creator that men and women should have. While Relief Society women have important community responsibili- ties, these should not detract from their home duties. This is especially true of mothers whose sons and daughters are still immature. Mothers and fathers are responsible for teaching the Gospel, both by precept and by example, to their children. * This calls for closely-knit family ties and intimate association of members of the family in their home life. The father's business often takes him away from home much of the time, leaving the mother to carry the major responsibility in the care and religious education of the family. It is not designed that Relief Society women shall neglect this duty. This does not mean that mothers should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 335 confined, like prisoners, to the home. They will be more competent for their home responsibilities if they keep in touch with the community life and know something of the social life and outside interests of their children. By these means and by wise use of leisure time for study, mothers may keep abreast of the times and continue to live in the same world as their children. This will help them to "be strong and of good courage" and to avoid the pitfalls of unwarranted fears and worties. The Gospel of Christ will help us to develop those soul satisfying aspects of living, and will help to eliminate the negative factors that destroy the joys of life. ? BUILDERS OF TESTIMONY By Donna D. Sorensen F to every woman in the Church was put this question: "What do you desire most for your son or daughter?" the answer would come ringingly back from every true Latter-day Saint mother, "I would want my child to have, most of all, a testimony of the Gospel." Why a testimony? Because the Lord has said, "He that seeketh me early shall find me and shall not be forsaken." Because the strength of this Church lies in the individual testimonies of its members. Because to possess a firm, strong testimony acts as a way of life and points the direction as truly as a radio beam to the airplane. Because a testimony is the strongest shield one can have against "the fiery darts of the adversary". Through revelation in this dispensation Latter-day Saint parents have been told of the necessity of teaching their children the first principles of the Gospel, and so upon the women of Relief Society devolves this most important duty of the proper training and rearing of their children in the faith of the Gospel. The training of the human soul for advancement here and joy hereafter calls for the greatest possible powers of mind and heart. It is generally admitted that the first years of life are crucial in determining what the future of the child shall be spiritually as well as physically. The mother with a testimony herself in the divinity of Jesus Christ is given an authority and a certainty which she would otherwise lack. "To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual 336 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE growth or development. Unknown to them, the mother's lullabies, the bedtime prayers, the family devotion... Are all making them converts." Teaching by example is especially important in the rearing of children. A mother should make it obvious that she is seriously interested in religious things and believes in them herself. To the Saints in this dispensation has come the command to teach their children to pray. Secret and family prayers and a blessing on every meal we eat all help "in forming a loving acquaintance with the Father". We might well ask ourselves this question: "How is the Relief Society fitting our women to be better participants in this great work of building testimonies in their families?" In our testimony meetings women are given the privilege to partake of that same spirit that they desire to inculcate in their families. Then, too, hundreds of women are weekly giving knowledge which they have to their sisters and in the giving are growing more able to give to their families. Many of our women are playing the part of the good Samaritan in their vicinities and doing good, and this, too, is one way to increase and grow in the knowledge of the truth. REPORT Eliza N. Salm, Oahu Stake Relief Society President EING surrounded by our Relief Society Singing Mothers, looking into your sweet, smiling faces, and with the feeling I have that my beloved people back home are praying for me, gives me courage to stand before you this morning. My dear sisters and friends, President Louise Y. Robison and her co-workers, my Alo-haa nui loa! When Sister Robison came to visit our island, we greeted her with aloha; that means aloha from within our hearts, the old way of the Hawaiians when they greet their loved ones. My heart is filled with gratitude to my Father in Heaven for the privilege we have of coming to your beautiful land. The Saints from Hawaii?the land of sunshine, flowers, music and singing?extend their greetings and alo-ha nui to you all. Six of us, Relief Society mothers, left our homes and loved ones and traveled thousands of miles to come to your beautiful land to participate in this conference. 'Three members of our stake board are here with me and two Relief Society ward presidents, one a mother of sixteen children, of whom fifteen are living and three attending the University of California. The few moments I occupy I sincerely ask my Father in Heaven to help me that I may be able to say those things that will make you proud of what we are doing in our Stake of Oahu. On December 13, 1850, the first missionaries arrived in the Hawaiian Islands, George O. Cannon and his companions. Twenty-five years later, on July 6, 1875, the first Relief Society was organized at Laie, on the Island of Oahu. Laie is my birthplace, and it is where the Temple now stands?one of the most beautiful sites on the islands and one most frequently visited by tourists. Relief Societies ar? now organized on all the islands of the group. 'There were fifty-five branches under the leadership of the mission presidents. Much was done. The Relief Society had charge of the care of the missionaries at this time. I want to tell you that your sons and daughters are Our sons and daughters, and we love them all. We saw that their clothes were laundered, fed the poor, and cared for the sick. The missionaries instructed the Hawaiian sisters in the ways of today?sewing, cooking and so forth. The Gospel has been preached by the sisters traveling for miles on foot, visiting the Saints scattered here and there. As time has gone on, the work has progressed. Several hundred sisters are now within our fold and are doing much good. The art of handcraft has been part of our work?weaving mats, fans, hats, purses, cushions and other artistic pieces of the lauhala. Crepe paper leis, imitating the tropical flowers, have been made; the tourists would not go home without them. We have also made layettes and quilts. When Sister Robison visited our island, we presented her with an Hawaiian quilt. The sale of handwork has been a means of raising money to build up. Our funds. It was during the leadership of President Castle H. Murphy that changes were made on the Island of Oahu. August 4, 1931, the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 337 Societies on the Island of Oahu were placed under the direction of a district board. It was my privilege and opportunity to serve on this board for two years. Later I became president of the district board. It was difficult for us to change from the accustomed way of doing things. Later, in 1935, President Heber J. Grant came to Hawaii, and it was then that the Island of Oahu became a Stake of Zion?the only one in the group of islands. 'The officers of the district board were appointed the Oahu Stake Relief Society Board. From then on the responsibility was ours. We realized the load was heavy. We were inexperienced for this high position, not having had much education, but Heavenly Father has been very kind, and we have been led through His guidance. FE have been carrying out instructions from our General Board and have tried to equip ourselves to the best of our ability, although we have come upon a lot of difficulties, especially in the Literary work. 'The Hawaiian sisters have not had much education; most of them have only gone to school up to the fourth or fifth grades. We speak the Hawaiian and English languages in our meetings, trying to interpret to the best of our ability, so as not to lose anything which is outlined for us. The Hawaiian race have their own way of preserving their legends. So far they have not had books printed, but they have been taught from father to son, from generation to generation. While the mission Relief Societies 338 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ? took care of all charity work, the bishop of each individual ward now has charge of that work. We carry out instructions whenever any emergency comes up. We have the bishop's sanction before we carry out any charity work. The money paid out for charitable purposes comes out of fast offerings. The Relief Society, therefore, does not raise money as it did in the years past, but is allowed to raise money only in the month of March, all the wards and branches joining together and supporting the stake board in one big affair. A week before we left our islands, the Relief Society stake board gave a concert, dance, and bazaar to raise funds for our Relief Societies. 'There were over eight hundred cooperating in this great affair, which was held in connection with our Anniversary on the 17th of March. We are raising money for our contribution to the erection of our proposed tabernacle. We have had this privilege for the past eight years. On October 29 the Saints of Hawail prepared a luau. I am sure those who have been on a mission to the Islands know what that means. We fed eight thousand people. We served 4,000 pounds of pork, 4,000 pounds of poi?that is the main food of the people of Hawaii, 3,000 pounds of sweet potatoes, 1,500 chickens, 1,000 pounds of luau, 2,000 pounds of fish, 2,000 pounds of moss (sea weed), 5,000 coconuts, 500 boxes of starch ? corn starch to make the Hawaiian pudding, 100 pounds of sugar, 20 tins of kilola, 240 cakes, 100 pounds of ice used for cold drinks. We served from 12 0'clock noon to 8 p.m. Twenty-five men prepared the imu, and fresh pork was served at each sitting. Twenty-five men served poi. There were 500 waiters, go for each sitting. Altogether there were 1,500 workers. I was in charge of the cakes, and of the leis. The Hawaiian sisters just love to make leis with their own hands, and we greet our missionaries with leis; but you greeted us with beautiful corsages when we arrived in your land. We can now see improvement in our work, and the interest and support has been wonderful. We are trying to support our General Board in the Membership Campaign, and we will do our best. It is our aim to support the Mormon Handicraft. I have brought with me handwork which our Hawaiian sisters have made as a token to our General Board. I want to testify to you that if it had not been for the Gospel we would not have left our loved ones and come to testify to you that God lives, that He hears and answers our prayers, and that Jesus is the Son of the Living God. May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father rest upon us this day, I pray in Jesus' name, Amen. Before the close of the afternoon session, two of the Hawaiian sisters brought leis to the tabernacle. Sister Salm put a lei on each member of the General Board, and also on the chorister and pianist, kissing Sister Robison as she presented the lei to her. This was very impressive. LOVE, THE NUTRIENT OF LIFE By Vivian R. McConkie OVE is a divine nutrient of human life and is the basis for all of our work. Jt motivates man toward the "bond of perfectness and peace". It strives for a fullness of life both here and hereafter. It stimulates thoughtful attention to the relationships of life. It is a native endowment of women, and expands heavenward as the subject grows in goodness. It encircles eternally those who do the will of the Father. It is manifested by the Son of God, through the Gospel. The atonement and the Holy Ghost evidence the extent to which it will reach to save us. It is inclusive of many qualities and is the mortar that holds the world together. It is a plant that matures beautifully or withers according to the cultivator of it. Let us surrender our personal pleasures and our ambitions in earnest endeavor to develop it. If so, then all things will work together for good. Love is expressed by words and deeds. True home culture can not exist without it. Its signs and tokens feed human affections. It is kind thoughts manifest in action; it perpetuates sentiment, considerations, and chivalry. When unexpressed it deteriorates. When expressed it refreshes parched places, and its sunshine awakens life. It continues courtship after marriage and is the sole remedy that will heal breaches that lead to broken homes. There is greater need for love than for modern comforts. If choice must be made between love and upto-date homes and automobiles, those who are touched with understanding will choose love and home and children and the standards of the Church as guide wires. If you would be loved be lovable, for love begets love. Like other gifts it must be used faithfully; otherwise it can not be enlarged. It must be active to reach the heart of another. Many hunger for it; yet, out of fear of encouraging vanity through lavish or unwise expressions of love many are allowed to starve for want of it. Malnutrition, where the element lacking is love, turns the heart to bitterness and the soul to rust. A wise word of recognition for a deed well done, or even for a failure, if the purpose was worthy, costs nothing and may greatly aid a worthy cause, as well as lighten a darkened soul. Love is measured by what it gives and by its purposes and its objects. The greatest love of all is manifest in the gift of eternal life, which is God's gift to all who desire righteousness. Man's greatest manifestation of love is to help persons to prepare themselves to receive eternal life, and the greatest thing that can be done to that end is to teach the truth. Our love is measured exactly by how completely we do this. If we love the Lord we will teach the Gospel, but we can not teach it if we do not live it. If we do not teach the truth it is because the light of truth is not in us. "I love thy testimonies." (Psalms 119:119.) ANALYZING VALUES IN PRESENT ?DAY LIVING By Leda T. Jensen All of us were anxious to come to this world, created for our mortal probation. What are we doing each 'day with the life we came here to live? We all desire happiness, that inward peace and security that is the result of righteous living. What each individual does, what decisions he makes, what path he follows depends upon his sense of values. The most important aim of education is the evolution of a personal scheme of values. Our value concepts condition our appreciations and satisfactions. They determine our distant goals and our present decisions. As we learn to include in our daily living more of the esthetic, more of the ethical, and more of the spiritual values we hold highest, life takes on greater meaning and joy; it becomes more abundant. What has happened to us and our children biologically is a thing of the past. The environmental factors are immediately around us and in them are the possibilities for modification, adjustment and growth. Our social environment is a most intricate and complex one. The individual is being bombarded on every side by literally thousands of social influences, all of which are shaping the individual's ideas, attitudes, motives, and conduct. In the midst of the existing confusion, how is one to determine which values are necessary for peace and happiness? Where are we to turn for a guide, a pattern? Is public opinion a safe guide? Are the theories and philosophies of men infallible? Does the praise or ridicule of our friends and associates influence us in the standards we set? Sometimes it seems we know not which way to turn for inspiration. There is one sure source of right, one unerring pattern to which we may turn in spite of the complexity of modern living. Our Savior, Jesus Christ, has pointed out the way in the Gospel of the Master, given directly by Him or through his prophets to us. What about honesty, what about virtue, what about the Sabbath Day, what about using our leisure time, what about dealing fairly and justly with all of God's children? What the Savior has said about the matter should be the final tribunal. What would my Heavenly Father have me do should be our constant question. As Relief Society women, are our standards of living on the high level they should be? Are we assuming the great responsibility that rests upon us as mothers in Israel? Because of the confusion in the world about them children are probably more in need of the continuity and security that the home alone can give than they have ever been. After we have set our own house in order, we should strive constantly by precept and by consistent example to raise the morals of the neighborhood and the community in which we live. Then our lives will be truly happy, for we shall have that inward peace which comes from our Heavenly Father. If we honestly strive to follow His example, we shall be blessed to properly analyze values in presentday living and to live by those standards we know to be right. General Session?Afternoon OUR GREATEST HERITAGE By Counselor Kate M. Barker WITHOUT faith it is impossible to please God." Faith is pleasing to God because He knows how vital it'is to man. As we think of the distress in the world today, are we not every day of our lives filled with joy because our faith tells us that God does live, that there is meaning and purpose and continuity to life, that mght will prevail? But faith to be strong enough to endure must not stop at giving us comfort and a feeling of security. It must not only do something for us but make us do things. Faith is not an end to accomplish. It should rather be a starting point for new and greater things. The message of the Gospel to each of us is to get our values straight, then begin with ourselves, our homes, our communities. Our Relief Society lessons are planned to help us find the real values in life, which are faith in God, faith in the purpose, beauty and possibilities of life, and faith in one another. They are planned also to give practical help in applying our faith to works. 'The measure of their worth is whether the standards of home and community life are being raised. The great need of the world today is for leadership, and nowhere is it so needed as in the home. I like to think of Relief Society as a training school in leadership for mothers, providing such training as will result in higher home standards in the type of conversation, in the books read, in the love and unity of the family, in the spiritual life of the home. It is the sins of selfishness and unkindness which make for lack of love and unity in the home. 'These were the sins which Jesus hated above all else. Let us make faith in goodness easy for our children. There is so much happening today to tend to destroy faith in life. The home must make greater effort than ever to give youth the kind of faith which, though one is aware of the realities and difficulties of life, gives one an appreciation of the purposefulness of life and the courage and zest to meet life. If youth is to succeed it must thus face life. Another test of our lessons will be: Is our own and our children's love of the Gospel increasing? Is our faith strong enough to inspire them? Sister Spafford's little Scotch grandmother had a beautiful gold watch and chain. One day when a little girl Sister Spafford, who admired the watch, said to her grandmother, "Grandmother, will you leave me your watch and chain?" "My dear, I am leaving you something much more valuable. I brought it across the ocean from Scotland. It is the Gospel." What an impression to make on a little girl's mind and heart, especially when that testimony was corroborated by a wonderful life. The community is but the home 342 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE writ large, and woman's responsibility reaches there?the same responsibility which she has in the home ?protecting the weak, caring for the sick and unfortunate, setting the standards of spiritual and cultural life. We all love to help. But in our complicated society the need for help is often not easy to see until tragedy comes. Our work is planned to help us understand human nature and the problems people are meeting today in order that we may be more sensitive to the needs of others and more understanding. The test of our success will be measured by the number of breakdowns which we prevent by extending a helping hand in time. How wonderful is the challenge our faith offers! A challenge so high it calls for the best of which we are capable. Jesus never minimized the discipline needed to be in His service. The Gospel asks us "not to be ministered unto but to administer". Opportunities for service are many. The chief causes of regret when we look back on life are the opportunities wasted, the responsibilities not met. Our faith is very precious to us. Let us resolve that nothing will rob us of it, that it will be active, that it will be the starting point for new and bigger things. Let us remember that our Father in Heaven was speaking to every member of the Church when He said, "Therefore O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve Him with all your heart, might, mind and strength." If we do this our faith will never die. "We know whom we have trusted."
SOME FUNDAMENTALS By Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
THE confused and disturbed condition of the world today, with its abnormal social and moral conditions, its economic and industrial problems, its unemployment and unrest, has caused thinking men and women to wonder what important fundamentals have been overlooked or ignored in the world's economy, or in life itself, that such conditions are possible. Among the groups which are making a comprehensive and prayerful study of conditions is our own Church; and though we are a small group, as world groups go, the Church is trying to set its own house in order. It has realized the seriousness of the situation surrounding its people and is trying to help solve their social and economic problems. I was especially impressed with the gravity of world conditions last July when I attended a meeting of the International Council of Women in Edinburgh, Scotland, where I heard prominent women from 31 nations discuss the pressing problems of the day from many angles and from their various national and racial viewpoints. These ordinarily well poised women were greatly disturbed over the serious conditions in their respective countries. The European women especially were concerned, apprehensive and filled with doubts and fears. They had not forgotten the last war with its consequent hardships, sufferings and tragedies, and now they feared another. Earnest prayers were offered daily in this great convention that enlightenment would come to the world; that men's hearts would be softened and turned from hate, selfishness, greed and war; and that the Golden Rule might be revitalized and adopted universally as a guide. Social philosophers, economists, newspaper columnists and other experts in our country are daily discussing the complex situation and trying to point the way to recovery and to peace. Dr. Henry C. Link in his new book The Rediscovery of Man has made some interesting observations and constructive suggestions. He infers that much of our present-day trouble is due to the fact that the world has drifted too far away from the fundamental principles and standards developed by the past, too far away from the great moral laws set up in the Old Testament, too far away from the teachings and ideals of the Savior. He declares that conditions would improve readily if people would but accept these universal truths and follow these laws. Dr. Link's social philosophy in many respects is not unlike that of our own Church which a few years ago was re-emphasized and reaffirmed by the First Presidency when they issued a Recall to social service, to the Christian ideals of the brotherhood of man, to religion?applied faith and spirituality.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 343
This great concerted effort on the part of the L. D. S. Church to help its people everywhere meet the complex conditions with which they are faced has been most inspiring and comforting to the people themselves, and has won the admiration of other groups. Definite objectives have been set up by the Church, the attainment of which will be sure to bring good results. The Church in its Welfare Program has been mindful of the values and lessons of the past; mindful of the abstract principles of right and wrong. It has stood firmly for those fundamental principles and standards and home-spun philosophies which have stood the test of time, which apply in all ages and which do not change even in a changing world. It has emphasized the fact that work, self-effort and self-reliance are basic elements of personal security and independence, and to this end it has sought to create work and opportunity; that industry, thrift and economy are the foundation stones of success in business and in home life; that too much social security weakens personal security; that honesty pays; that straightforwardness, dependability and integrity pay; that debt, whether national or personal, is bondage; that waste is calamitous; that installment buying is too expensive generally to be indulged in. In connection with this philosophy the Church, as always, seeks to develop faith in God and in His purposes, and obedience to the teachings of the Gospel. It is gratifying that the Relief Society is supporting and nobly assisting in this great Welfare Program.
344 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
The General Board is most grateful for and appreciative of the efforts put forth by Relief Society women in this additional work, as well as in carrying forward the regular cultural and educational program of the Organization. An article by President George H. Brimhall has stimulated me greatly. One excerpt from it I shall read. He asks and answers his own pointed question. It is: "Who are the honest, constructive, helpful members of the Church?" "They are those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; they are those who pray for the building up of Zion, and pay their tithing; they are those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; they are those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; they are those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; they are those who pray for divine support of leaders, and stand for their counsel and advice." The Relief Society has just passed its 97th birthday. All down through its history it has been a faithful and loyal auxiliary to the Church, and a devoted aid to the Priesthood. It has been both conservative and progressive; it has looked both backward and forward, cherishing all of the virtues of the past but always facing bravely the needs of the future with its new conditions. At various periods during its existence the Organization has emphasized movements that were of particular importance to the women of each era. Since the day of its organization in 1842, one of its major activities has been welfare work. In this it has tried to use constructive, intelligent methods based on sound principles, tempered with love, sympathy and mercy. It has studied the problems connected with this work seriously. It has tried to keep constantly in mind the importance of normal life and opportunity for the individuals and families it has served. It has aimed to hold sacred their personalities and their confidences. It has tried to develop within them strength rather than weakness. And now it is giving its full strength, power and support to the Priesthood and the Church in this last great project. Relief Society women are constantly striving for greater knowledge and understanding of the world we live in?for knowledge of the laws of health, science, economics, morals and religion. Their chief study, however, is religion?the Gospel of Jesus Christ. They stress the importance of good homes and the proper rearing of children. We as Latter-day Saints have constantly been taught that the great object of the Church is to assist in the establishment of the Kingdom of God here on this earth. Recently in an address before the students of Brigham Young University Brother Stephen L Richards discussed the subject in a most interesting manner. He began thus: "How can we establish the Kingdom of God? By living, teaching, and establishing the laws of that Kingdom. What are the laws of that Kingdom? They are the decalogue and the Gospel of Jesus Christ." Relief Society women stand firmly for the observance of the great moral laws of the Bible. They stand firmly for the Gospel of Jesus Christ which has been fully restored. Their constant desire is to observe all the laws of the Kingdom, to live up to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 345
all of the teachings and requirements of the Gospel and to be considered and known as orthodox Latter-day Saints.
ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison
WE are near the close of this wonderful Conference. I wish I had words to express my appreciation to our Heavenly Father for His Spirit that has been with us, for the beautiful weather we have had, and for these marvelous singers. In all my life I have never heard anything lovelier, and I do not expect to, not only in this life, but in eternity. It gives me great joy to give these sisters a blessing for themselves and for their families who have made sacrifices in order that they might come, some of them a long way. We have been blessed with the visit of our Hawaiian sisters. I am sure those who have had contact with them will never forget their wonderful testimonies, their loving, sweet spirits, their beautiful, colorful leis, and how freely they have helped us in all of our gatherings. I have never experienced anything more thrilling in my life than my visit to these wonderful women?to their wonderful people. I said at the time, I had wondered when I was a young woman why missionaries were sent to those far-away islands when we were just settling this valley and hardly had homes of our own?why send missionaries such a long distance to the Sandwich Islands? But when I met these people, saw their faith?the real blood of Israel?I could see why. I am sure you will let me express to Sister Salm and her sisters our love for them, and our aloha, and ask them to take it to their people when they return home. We have so many things for which to be thankful. A few days ago I picked up a little book that President Grant had given me, entitled Finding God in Millersville. I had read this interesting narrative many times, but never before realized that the ideas which changed Mr. Thornton from a man who did not believe in God to an earnest, ardent worker for humanity were the very principles which were given to Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Those of you who have read the book will remember Mr. Thornton's early business life; he was quite sure there was no God and thought only of material profit. Then a change came. Let me read a few paragraphs: "Gradually, as I got nearer to my people, they began to move in close to me. Without realizing it until long afterward I had made my first great religious discovery. I had discovered my fellow men?my brothers. The closer I got to them, the more I admired them. The amount of love, and patience and simple faith in the average lowly man and woman became to me nothing short of marvelous. Men whom I had always regarded as rather slow-
346 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
witted, ordinary fellows, I found to be real heroes when I got under their skins. Human personality became to me the most marvelous and precious and wonderful thing in the world." It is the human personality which Relief Society is trying to develop; it is seeing beyond the service the real heroes and heroines and meeting them with love and patience. As evidence I have here a report of the activities for last year of our wonderful women. Only last month the stakes were asked for a report of the work done by Relief Society for the Church Welfare. This is entirely distinct from the annual Relief Society report. One hundred twelve stakes responded within two weeks' time. This is the compiled report: 629,325 quarts fruit and vegetables canned. 7,792 pounds fruit and vegetables dried. 195 glasses jelly. 25 pounds soap. 2,676 quilts made. 84 rugs made. 1 mattress and 5 sheets made. 11,902 articles of clothing?this includes 17 layettes. $12,422.01 in cash. Seventy-five stakes reported successful gardens planted. Figures, however, do not tell the real story. If there were time I would like to read the 112 reports, as they are all equally inspiring, but as that is not possible I have taken a few of the first received at the office: "In January, 1938, a cooperative program on sanitation, beautification and thrift was carried out by the Elders' Quorums and the Stake Relief Society. A definite assignment was given for each month from January to October. The program included fighting flies and weeds, planting vegetable and flower gardens, installing and painting sanitary toilets and rest rooms, and screening doors and windows. The climax was a flower show in September which was a grand success. A great deal of activity was reported, our visiting teachers and the elders gathering the reports. An educational questionnaire was carried by the stake board on special visits to wards. The object of this was to teach mothers how to buy, and what should be made and produced at home to meet the minimum standard of living. There was splendid response to this. In June, 1938, the ward bishops and Relief Society presidents made a survey of the welfare produce and clothing on hand in their wards. The results of this survey were compiled and a system of exchange of produce between wards was carried on, which was a great help." Another stake reports: "A year ago it was called to our attention that our stake was at the very bottom of the list in our region when it came to the payment of fast offerings. We knew that the success of the Welfare Plan rested largely upon the payment of fast offerings together with other voluntary contributions. So we, as Stake Relief Society officers, decided we would try and do something about it inasmuch as it is the mother in the home who plans the meals, orders the groceries and administers much of the family income. Therefore, we felt that the women in our stake were just as much to blame for the condition as the men were." Plans were made and executed and the report concludes: "While we do not wish to claim credit for this, there has been a substantial increase in fast offerings during the last year." Another stake reports: "Ninety-three families have been taught how to can their own fruits and vegetables, with the use of a pressure cooker. Six hundred eighteen hours have been spent in sewing?sixty-eight women donating their services and ninety-six women being instructed. Twenty-eight women sewed one article for themselves and one article for the Welfare Center. Thirty families have been assisted with new and used clothing and quilts. Several talks on beautification and gardening have been given in each ward. Plants, seeds and bulbs have been exchanged, very choice flowers raised, many homes painted, meeting houses and grounds improved and some vacant lots cleaned of weeds. Where school delinquency is found to be due to lack of proper clothing, we have supplied this so that children might continue their school work and feel at ease with other children." From another stake the Relief Society officers of all the wards urged the women to raise good gardens and can surplus vegetables and fruit for winter use. If any of the women did not know how to use a pressure cooker someone was sent into the homes to teach them. There was also much surplus canning done in the homes and turned over to the bishops for Church Welfare. One ward reports they have a family where the mother is nearly blind. Relief Society women do the sewing, mending and darning for this family as well as supplying the needed bedding. Only three days after Sister Lund
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 347
had sent the request for these reports, the following report was received, written by hand: "We have a stake sewing center well supervised by an efficient Relief Society sister where women from all our wards come to work. Some of these women have been taught sewing from the first step. We also have a loom, with one of our women in charge, where hundreds of yards of rugs have been woven for the needy and also for custom work." One stake prepared its report under "Wards," "Priesthood Projects," and "What Relief Society Did Toward Helping the Projects." Where the Priesthood project was the production of sugar beets, the Relief Society women served hot dinners to 60 men in the spring at time of planting, and again to 35 men when the crop was harvested. Where tomato and corn raising were the projects, Relief Society canned 1,600 cans of tomatoes and dried 750 pounds of corn. This stake reports this interesting item: "During the summer months of last year the janitor in one of the wards asked his bishop for a two months' leave of absence. The general fund of Relief Society in that ward was entirely depleted, so the president asked the bishop to let the women do the janitorial work for those two months, receiving the janitor's compensation. This was done and the Relief Society general fund was increased $80." One stake reports: "$600 has been contributed to the stake presidency for welfare purposes by the stake Relief Society. Eight hundred articles of remodeled clothing have been supplied, and Relief Society women have been sent into
348 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the homes to teach and assist the families in sewing. The Relief Society furnished 354 women and the bishops 82 men to do 940 days' canning. One ward conducted a farm project in which 30 women spent 4 days cutting corn from the cob. These same ward Relief Society women donated the food and served 125 meals to men while they labored on this ward farm. Several of our wards have purchased cookers and sealers and paid a woman to go into the homes of needy families to take care of fruit furnished by the bishop, or vegetables grown in their own gardens. As a special project to help forward the Church Welfare Program, the Relief Societies have made a plea for every home to have a garden. The response has been very commendable. A very large per cent of our members have grown sufficient vegetables to supply their own needs as well as to can for winter use." THESE reports are so interesting and vital that I find it difficult to leave them. I must read one more item and this time I shall mention the name. I quote: "Walla Walla did a unique thing. This ward was not a part of our stake when the budget allotment was made, but they desired to do something for the welfare work. Each woman received ten cents from the Organization, and was asked to put the ten cents to work and bring back as much as she could from the investment. One woman bought eggs, set a hen, sold fryers and returned $1.50. Another sister bought ten cents worth of beans and brought back $5. Another invested in tomato seeds and returned $3." I could tell you many interesting happenings, but from the money invested Walla Walla Relief Society purchased two barrels of flour for the storehouse. An outstanding item from one of the stakes reads: "Members of Relief Society in one ward cared for two little motherless girls while the older children attended school for nine months." I feel very much like Sister Wendelboe of Cache stake, who added a postscript to her reports as follows: "Our activities are many more than the ones I have reported, but the women do so many kind and thoughtful acts, and when they have finished they think no more about them; so in this way many activities are not reported." If the Savior were to ask today, as He once asked His disciples: "What do ye more than others?" these reports would be the answer. This type of activity is only one phase of Relief Society work; it does bring us close to the needs of others. In our desire to serve those of our Father's children who are in distress, we strengthen our own faith. We realize that our first responsibility is to our children, to teach them faith in God and help them to understand the principles of the Gospel. In this important work, women receive help through Relief Society. Mothers gain insight into many problems of child-life by discussing their problems with other earnest women who are eager to improve. Young mothers are benefited by the calm faith of older sisters who have reared their families. Only recently a young grandmother expressed concern that her daughter and other young mothers today do not have the faith-promoting influence of mothers and grandmothers, as girls and young women of her generation had?women who had joined the Church in foreign countries, who had given up comfortable homes, and without regret had walked across the plains and established homes in a new country. Their testimony of the truthfulness of the Gospel, and the calm positive assurance of the power of faith had a lasting effect upon the lives of young people. Relief Society must try to develop this same faith. We must help our young people to distinguish between the essentials and non-essentials in life. In a recent testimony meeting a member of the General Board told us of an early experience which had stayed in her memory all her life. Her father had taken a load of hay to the city, and it was long past the time when he was expected home. The mother was greatly worried, but she took her very small children into the bedroom with her, and each of them offered a prayer for the father's return. A short time after this mother and her children had prayed, the father came. Prayer was answered. To those small children this established the fact that there was a Father in Heaven who did answer prayer. This was a beautiful foundation?so easy to establish, but wise mothers must continue to build. Faith is peculiar?it can grow stronger even in the face of hardship and sorrow, or it can and does leave if one neglects to nourish it. The more prayer becomes a regular habit, the easier faith grows. Mothers who keep the Sabbath Day as we are taught it should be observed, who help children to understand
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 349
why, who teach them the sacred privilege of partaking of the Sacrament, the importance of honesty, truth and sharing with others, make faith in God a part of their lives. I pray God our Father that He will bless you, and let us blend our prayers with those of the heart-broken women of Europe?our sisters?that their burdens will be lightened. May our Father bless you with influence in your homes that your children will love the Gospel. One of the sweetest things that can come to parents is to have a child know the Gospel is true, and have a desire to work for it. I do want to thank you for coming to this conference; it has been a joy. My heart is so full of gratitude to my Heavenly Father. We have prayed for this conference, that we might give you something that would help you carry on your work. A week or ten days ago the General Board of Relief Society held a fast meeting, a prayer meeting, that our Father in Heaven would bless us both yesterday and today and throughout this conference, that you sisters would have the Spirit of the Lord, and bring it with you and have your hearts filled with it. I want to thank Him for answering our prayers. I want to thank you for making these prayers possible. May God bless you and take you home in safety and keep you until we meet again I ask in His name, and I do it with all the earnestness of my heart. I do know that God lives; I do know that He answers our prayers; I do know that He loves you sisters who work for His children; and I do know that He will bless you.
ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the services of the stake and mission secretaries. They have been most cooperative and responsive to every request made of them. The reports were in excellent condition this year, with quite the usual number of perfect ones, the others showing slight errors which we are sure the experience of the present year will correct. This has been a year of phenomenal growth in the number of organizations. The following is the detailed statement of new organizations and reorganizations since last conference:
ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President November, 1938 Nampa (Taken from Minnie Rose Boise Stake) November, 1938
March, 1939 Weiser (Taken from Edith H. Brown Boise Stake) Provo (Taken from Inez B. Allred Utah Stake)
REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President January, 1939 Blaine Jennie Sanford Eva Pond January, 1939 Liberty Cornelia S. Lund Emma G. Phillips February, 1939 Taylor Allie R. Jensen October, 1938 Teton Edna Atchley March, 1939 Utah Stake Myrtle N. Passey Emma Cordon Achsa E. Paxman Edith Y. Booth
Teach-Tithing Campaign
ONCE again we call the attention of Relief Society organizations to the annual Church-wide teach-tithing campaign. From the Progress of the Church we quote: "A short talk on tithing is planned to be given in every meeting of Aaronic or Melchizedek Priesthood, and all of the auxiliary associations, during the month of May." The influence of mothers upon family members with regard to the observance of this great law is a potent one. "A wife and mother fully converted to the law of tithing usually means a household where this obligation is met." We desire all Relief Society organizations to give careful attention to the request of the Presiding Bishopric that short talks be given at the regular meetings during the month of May.
General Relief Society Consolidated Statement Of Cash Receipts And Disbursements Stake, Ward and Mission Reports, Year Ended December 31, 1938 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1938: Charity Fund $ 62,622.22 General Fund 114,372.53 Annual Dues ? Wheat Trust Fund 3,999.51 Stake Board Funds 39,811.41 ----------- $ 220,805.67
Cash Receipts: Charity Fund $107,703.40 General Fund 144,067.65 Annual Dues 30,897.56 Stake Board Receipts 60,910.76 ----------- $ 343,579.37
Total Cash to Account for $ 564,385.04
Cash Disbursements: Charity Fund $ 83,594.82 General Fund 153,227.62 Annual Dues 28,865.65 Wheat Trust Fund 68.00 Stake Board Disbursements 60,498.50 ----------- Total Disbursements $ 326,254.59
Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1938: Charity Fund $ 86,730.80 General Fund 105,212.56 Annual Dues 2,031.91 Wheat Trust Fund 3,931.51 Stake Board Funds 40,223.67 ----------- $ 237,630.45
Merchandise on Hand January 1, 1938 $ 10,208.29 Merchandise Received 21,958.10 ----------- Total Merchandise $ 32,166.39
Merchandise Disbursed $ 19,105.85 Balance on Hand December 31, 1938 13,060.54 ----------- $ 32,166.39
Consolidated Statement Of Financial Condition Stake, Ward and Mission Reports, At December 31, 1938
ASSETS Cash on Hand, All Funds $ 237,630.45 Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office 499,974.74 (Wheat Trust Fund) Other Invested Funds 27,648.40 ----------- $ 765,253.59 Real Estate and Buildings 94,181.30 Furniture and Fixtures 252,547.07 Other Stake Board Assets 106,005.66 ----------- $1,033,806.32
Other Assets 2,146.33 Indebtedness $ 106,294.79 Stake Board Net Assets 925,365.20 ----------- Balance Net Assets $1,033,806.32
Membership, January 1, 1938 Executive Officers 16,026 Visiting Teachers 25,486 Other Members 332,552 ----------- 75,064
Increase: Admitted to Membership During Year 13,471 ----------- Total Membership and Increase 88,535
Decrease: Removed or Resigned 7,269 Death 1,026 ----------- 8,295
Total Membership 80,240
Membership, December 31, 1938: Executive and Special Officers 18,392 Visiting Teachers 26,081 Other Members 35,767 ----------- 80, , MAY - 353
The Total Membership Includes: General Officers and Board Members 24 Stake Officers and Board Members 1,493 Mission Presidents and Officers 108 Number of Stakes 124 Number of Missions 35 Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations 2,002 Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts 14,678 Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards 152,709 Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken 43,252 Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine 1,503 Number of Meetings Held in Wards 57,996 Number of Stake Meetings Held 2,433 Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held 1,250 Number of Ward Conferences Held 1,554 Average Attendance at Ward Meetings 36,526 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers 1,055,618 Number of Families Helped 16,507 Number of Days Spent with the Sick 32,978 Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound 208,061 Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial 1,478 Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers 7,987
COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS 1936 1937 1938 Paid for Charitable Purposes $66,189.48 $67,632.09 $83,594.82 Total or Present Membership 73,062 75,064 80,240 No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,782 1,918 2,002 No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 40,075 41,721 43,252 No. Of Days Spent with the Sick 39,929 36,477 32,978 No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 215,260 204,125 208,061 No. Of Families Helped 15,152 16,185 16,507 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards 6,690 7,595 7,987 No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 986,687 991,623 1,055,618
DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY Stakes Missions Arizona 2,953 Argentina 173 California 3,880 Australia 184 Canada 1,410 Canada 97 Colorado 523 Europe 4,483 Hawaii 398 Hawaii 535 Idaho 12,188 Illinois 182 Montana 1,052 New Zealand 225 Nevada 1,017 Ohio 490 New York 334 South Africa 155 Oregon 1,254 South America 109 Utah 41,333 United States 6,664 Wyoming 2,181
-----
Total Membership in Stakes 66,410 Total Membership in Missions 13,830 Total Membership in Stakes and Missions 80,240
(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)