May First, National Child Health Day By Bernice Moss HE health of the child is the power of the nation." This 1939 slogan for National Child Health Day on May first, so proclaimed each year by the President of the United States, challenges all citizens to serious consideration which will result in a fitting observance of this day. May first gives us an opportunity to seriously evaluate the health programs which we as individuals, families and communities sponsor in the interest of the child, and to call to the attention of all the needs for further effort. We should ask ourselves many questions: Are the children in our community properly fed, housed, and protected? Are mothers and infants provided with medical and nursing care? Is communicable disease _ controlled through immunization and isolation programs? Are we making adequate provision for handicapped children? Do we supply pure milk, pure water, and pure food to our people? Are there adequate playgrounds and effective recreation programs for our children? Is our home conducive to the best development of the child? Are we. Helping each child to attain his most wholesome physical, mental, social, and spiritual development? We should ask ourselves these questions and many more, and on the basis of such serious evaluation plan a program of improvement for our homes and communities. This year the responsibility for organizing the observance of May Day—Child Health Day in the State of Utah—was delegated to the Relief Society by the State Board of Health. A state-wide committee was organized under the leadership of Marcia K. Howells, general chairman. This committee represented the organizations, societies, and state departments most concerned with child health problems. The general committee drew up plans and suggestions concerning fitting observance of Child Health Day and sent them to hundreds of interested persons. A week of observance, rather than one day, was suggested, and all groups invited to participate in effective community programs under the leadership of the local Relief Societies. Programs naturally vary with communities. Some of the following methods have proved and are proving effective: church meetings devoted to health, public lectures, public forums, radio programs, newspaper articles, moving pictures, school activities including May Day festivals, health parades, assembly programs, plays, pageants, etc., demonstrations, window exhibits, community surveys to determine needs and plan programs. Such a concerted attack on the problem of child health is bound to result in an awakened consciousness on the part of our citizenry. When this consciousness is translated into effective planning and effective action in our homes, schools, and communities, we will have marched far toward the achievement of our goal.