LESSON DEPARTMENT FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Youth Faces A World Of Change Lesson 8 By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, California)
YOUTH always faces a new world,?new to it,?but the present younger generation faces two conditions that no younger generation has faced in American history: I. They are fewer in number, therefore more in a minority. In the past, this has been a nation of youth. The frontier was pushed back, the West was conquered, the Civil War was fought by young men,?largely a group that would now be "college boys". Taking 21 as an arbitrary line of division, it will be found that 75 years ago half of the entire population of the United States was under 21 years of age. The falling birth-rate has changed this situation. In the United States as a whole only one-third of the population, in Southern California scarcely more than one-fourth, is under 21 years of age. In other words, where youth was formerly in equal numbers with its elders, it is now outnumbered two to one, or, in Southern California, three to one. This is becoming a nation of old people, who are inevitably inclined to run things from their own point of view and unconsciously for their own benefit (witness the great crop of old-age-pension schemes). Inevitably, this tends to make the young feel that there is no place for them in the world. This deprives society of the enthusiasm, idealism, and energy of youth, which it sorely needs; and probably tends to make youth more radical and revolutionary, more inclined to protest more violently, than is normal for adolescence; they feel so much outnumbered that they think they can attract attention only if they shout,?to speak figuratively.
II. The gap between the older and younger generation is becoming greater than ever, due mainly to city life, where the children and parents have so little effective association,?as compared with farm life where the whole family shares in a co-operative enterprise. This intensifies the feeling of youth that it is not an integral part of society but a group apart, in opposition to, and in conflict with, the older generation. Many of the results of this changing situation are familiar to every thoughtful person. For example:
1. Small families (the average in the educated part of the American population is now two children, which means that there are just as many families smaller than this, as there are larger) give the child less chance to learn family relations, to acquire the habit of give-and-take, to practice the invaluable art of respecting other people's rights; of protecting himself from the older and stronger while in turn protecting the younger and weaker. Parents may have more time for work, more freedom for play, if they have fewer children (obviously, they would have still more if they were childless, and some deliberately adopt this extreme course); but this is offset by the lack of that experience which parenthood brings to the enrichment of life, and is also offset tragically by the greater loneliness and feeling of frustration and failure later in life. During the World War a German psychologist published a study of 100 married couples, each of whom had had but one child, a son, and had lost this only child in battle. It was a tragic story of defeat and despair that the interviews brought to light. But disease or accident may leave parents childless, just as surely as
war. Beyond this, history is filled with the remarks of those who, at the close of a life spent in the pursuit of fame, have described bitterly the futility and disillusionment of it all, agreeing with The Preacher that "All is vanity." But I do not remember ever reading of a father who, after successfully bringing up a worthy family, expressed regret over a misspent life. 2. The modern family is more independent,?too often detached from its kinship. The whole burden of making a success in life is placed on two young people,?husband and wife,?without the help they would have had, in the pioneer period, from friends and relatives. At the same time, there are fewer social RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 355 controls,?less pressure on them to make a success of marriage. They are perhaps in a large city where no one knows them and no one cares what happens to them. Society seems determined to make it as hard as possible for them to succeed, as easy as possible for them to fail! High schools and colleges, even some churches, have been slow to do anything practical that would enable young people to marry more successfully. Fortunately, a nationwide interest in the subject is now manifest, and conditions are changing for the better. The spread of family relations courses in the schools, the establishment of clinics and counseling centers like the Institute of Family Relations in Los Angeles, will make it possible for many persons to get help who in the past have groped blindly. 3. The modern, urban family is loosely integrated,?it is not a tightly knit unit (one for all and all for one) like the pioneer family which more nearly represents the normal, biological, family unit. There is less training for character and citizenship in it (no matter how much responsibility the schools may assume, the home must still take primary responsibility for training children in character, religion, health, and recteation), because there is less sharing of activity. The family's advantages in this respect increase proportionately with the number of children it contains. The farm family has a great advantage over the city family. Every measure that strengthens rural life, that gives the farmer justice, that makes the farm more attractive to young people and keeps them on it, 356 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is indirectly a measure to strengthen the nation's family life. The farm family does for its members, naturally and well, a lot of things that the city schools can do for their pupils only with difficulty and at great expense. 4. The family is individualistic. Each child gets more attention, and the individual rather than the family is the collective unit. 'This makes it hard for the child to adjust to life later, when he goes out into the world and has to get along with other people. The resulting lack of "'adjustability" is a handicap in many ways. Some young people fail to marry, because they have not learned how to get along with others. Dr. Joseph K. Folsom has calculated that, where a girl one hundred years ago could choose a satisfactory husband if she had five eligible men to select from, her granddaughter today must know 25 eligibles in order to have a chance to make as satisfactory a choice as her grandmother made. This results from the greater variety of patterns and backgrounds (emphasized in the first lesson of this series) and the less tolerance that people today have. Incidentally, how many unmarried young women today actually know 25 eligible men? There is probably less harmony among those who do marry. It is sometimes alleged that the increasing divorce rate does not show married people to be less happy than in "the old days," but merely that they will not put up with as much unhappiness as their ancestors did. Where their ancestors suffered in silence, they will get a divorce. There is some truth in this, but it is far from the whole truth. No one can apply it seriously to such a condition as that existing in Los Angeles County, where an actual majority of all marriages end in the divorce courts! If it is true that we won't put up with difficulties the way our grandparents did, it is also true that we can't,?we have never learned how. The consequence is an increase in all sorts of maladjustments, neuroses, and actual insanity, as well as in marital misery. Such problems as these urgently demand attention today. Families of normal size, with the children growing up to be "family-minded," will avoid many of the social and emotional difficulties associated with the present all-too-common one- and two-child households. A more closely knit family life, with more systematic preparation of young people for marriage and more help available for them after they marry, will have far-reaching influence on the happiness and success in life of both older and younger generations.
Questions and Problems
1. Do you think that a "Youth Movement" helps to promote better family life?
2. What sort of chores can be found for the children of a city family, that will help them to feel that they have a real part in the work of the world?
3. What makes some women think home-makers inferior to women carrying on careers outside the home?
THE HISTORIC TRAIN LEAVES JULY 5th Write or Phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON NO. 8. SOUTH MAIN Salt Lake City, Utah 1939 for Nauvoo, Palmyra, Hill Cumorah, Church Pageant, Smith Family Farm, Sharon, Vermont?Also Carthage, Independence, Kirtland, Denver, Kansas City, Chicago, Cleveland, Niagara Falls, Albany, West Point, and the Greatest World's Fair in History?at New York, Washington, D. C., Montreal, etc.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 357
4. Do children tend to prevent the desire for divorce or merely to prevent the carrying out of the desire? What makes you think so?
5. What kind of social, economic, and industrial changes are likely to affect family life during the next ten years? What effects do you think these changes will have on the family?
Beauty In Your Milk Bottle
MILK was a beauty secret of the famous beauties of history, but today there are milk packs and milk baths, as well as milk diets for every one. The regular cream brought by the milkman is used to massage the lips and also the hands. Efficient distribution of safe, dependable milk is a vital daily factor wherever beauty and health are watchwords. As the recipes for many expensive skin creams are based on ingredients found in milk, why not
A Hollywood BEAUTY SECRET Drinking Milk... An essential part of the beauty diet of famous motion picture stars! They drink milk as an aid to beautiful skin and vibrant health. In Cloverleaf Milk you get the added benefit of extra vitamin D which helps maintain sound, even teeth.
It Costs No More Than Ordinary Milk
Cloverleaf Perfectly Pasteurized Grade A Irradiated Vitamin D Milk HOME OF FINE DAIRY PRODUCTS
358 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
use the original?right out of the bottle?says the Milk Industry Foundation. Milk farms, where women go to streamline their figures on diets in which milk plays a conspicuous part, are growing in popularity. Milk, a chief source of calcium, most important of the "protective" foods, is rich in vitamins and mineral salts. One of the great advantages of milk as an aid to beauty is its convenience. All of the ingredients of this low-cost beauty "treatment" are delivered at the doorstep every morning by the milkman. Fresh milk as a beverage promotes health, helps create good teeth, supplies minerals required for strong, supple bones, gives luster to the hair and it isn't fattening. A beauty specialist says, "Drink a quart of milk a day and protect your health; get fresh air, sunshine, rest and proper exercise if you want beauty that is more than skin deep." ?Milk Industry Foundation.
Call Wasatch 3805
Arden Milk FINER FLAVOR AND QUALITY Visit