The Body's Need For Vitamins By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe, Home Economics Department, University of Utah The unique role of vitamins in general, and the specific functions of vitamin A were reviewed in the preceding article. The present article will consider vitamin B. VITAMIN B OR THIAMIN Investigation OR centuries the disease, now known as beriberi, was prevalent in the Orient before it became generally known in our Western civilization. Beriberi had attracted world attention when in 1878-1883 'Takaki, a medical officer of the Japanese navy, became convinced that the disease was not due to infection but to a nutritional deficiency. At this time the entire Japanese navy numbered 5,000 men, and out of this number 1,000 to 2,000 Or 20 to 40 per cent were sick each year with this disease. Takaki succeeded in changing the navy ration and practically irradicated the disease, but he was unable to give any explanation of the astonishing effect of the changed diet. We now know that the new diet contained vitamin B. Research followed rapidly in an attempt to discover the substance or substances responsible for such dramatic effects. It was soon determined that this "unknown substance" was an organic material appearing naturally in certain foods as well as in the water in which these foods were soaked or cooked. Finally in 1936 the chemical nature of this substance was determined. Now it can be synthesized and appears on the market in various forms. FUNCTIONS OF VITAMIN B IN NUTRITION Vitamin B Prevents the Disease Beriberi Beriberi is a disease that effects the nervous system. There are two forms of this disease, the dry and the wet. In dry beriben there is a great wasting of the muscle tissue, loss of sensation in the skin and fi nally paralysis of the nerves beginning in the legs and gradually extending to the upper portions of the body. In wet beriberi fluids collect in the tissues of the arms, legs and finally in the trunk. The heart enlarges greatly and death results from heart failure. This disease develops slowly in human beings living on a diet low in vitamin B, but a diet completely lacking in it will produce the disease rapidly. This disease can be cured with dramatic rapidity through the administration of vitamin B. The experimental animals respond to this treatment in a few hours and are completely recovered in a few days. In human beings the recovery is slower but still very dramatic. Vitamin B treatment of severe infantile beriberi is described as "almost miraculous". The most marked effect of the administration of vitamin B is its effect on the heart, which quickly returns to its normal size. Beriberi often follows cases of prolonged fevers where the effects of a diet deficient in vitamin B are more striking. Maintenance of Appetite Much that has been learned concerning the vitamins has been through animal experimentation. The vitamin B deficiency disease in animals is called polyneuritis. Very often young experimental animals on a deficient vitamin B diet will die before they develop symptoms of the nerve disease. Older animals will live for a much longer time and will show marked symptoms of the disease. 'The experimental animals soon lose their appetite. Upon the administration of vitamin B, the appetite quickly returns and the animals become normal. Doctors often find this disease in mild forms in children's wards in hospitals, the most common symptom being lack of appetite. Dr. B. R. Hoobler' of Detroit has observed that "when about one-half teaspoon of brewer's yeast concentrate was given daily to infants suspected of receiving an insufficient amount of B the appetite increased and a certain type of stiffness in the arms, legs and neck disappeared." He cites an example of one infant given this treatment that "changed from a thin, pale, spastic, restless, whining infant, refusing part of its formula, to a happy, rosy-cheeked, smiling baby whose appetite seemed never to be com- *Dr. B. R. Hoobler, Detroit: Syinptomatology of Vitamin B Deficiency in Infants, Hour. Amer. Med. Assoc., Vol. 73 (1922). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY 301 completely satisfied, and whose gain in weight was remarkable." Effect Upon Digestion The gastro-intestinal tract (the stomach and the intestines) very soon show disturbances in the digestion, absorption and assimilation of food on a deficiency B diet. The muscles of these organs lose their tone so that the movement of food in the stomach and along the intestinal tract is slowed up. Also the vitality of the mucous lining of these organs is reduced so that there is less resistance against infection. Studies" made on human _ beings suffering with chronic arthritis—a disease in which digestion is often impaired — showed that patients "who had very greatly relaxed and sluggish intestinal tracts, made remarkable improvement when large doses of vitamin B in the form of yeast concentrate or wheat germ were administered." It has been observed in many cases in which people are really not ill, but who are always taking something to relieve a "sour stomach" or a "bad taste" in the mouth and are suffering from headache and constipation, that there has been a marked clearing up of these symptoms when a sufficient amount of vitamin B was added to their diet. Vitainin B and Growth IN experimental work with both animal and human subjects, it has been proved that vitamin B is necessary for normal growth and development. White albino rats weaned "Drs. A. A. Fletcher and S. Graham at the University of 'Toronto Hospital. 302 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at 28 days of age from a mother who has had an adequate diet, and then put on a diet adequate in every respect except vitamin B, will continue to grow for a few days until they have used up the small amount that was stored in their bodies. At this time they begin to lose weight, the spinal column becomes misshapen with a decided hump. Such animals will die in four or five weeks. If vitamin B is added to their diet before they are too far gone, they will show signs of feeling better within a few hours; they will become interested in their food, all signs of paralysis disappear, and the rapidity with which they grow is startling. White albino rats in the animal laboratory of the Home Economics Department of the University of Utah were given a vitamin B defcient diet for eight weeks at which time they weighed less than at the beginning of the experiment and' were completely paralyzed and could not stand up. They were given a few drops of milk containing yeast. In three hours they acted as if they were just waking up. Repeated doses of milk and yeast were given. The next morning these rats were walking around. In a couple of days they appeared normal and began to grow. In order to show the effect of vitamin B in the diet of infants, Dr. J. H. Dennett of New York City observed a group of babies between the ages of five and ten months who were fed on modified cow's milk plus the orange juice and cod liver oil. These babies grew slowly or ceased entirely to gain weight, "they become fretful, flabby and pale, and either lose their appetite or fail to assimilate their food properly." To determine whether or not the lack of vitamin B was the cause of the trouble the doctor fed a large number of these babies a preparation made from wheat germ and added it to the milk formula. These babies showed a remarkable change within a few months. Their appetites returned, their muscles became firm, their color was good, and their gain in weight was considerably above the average for their age. To see whether older children on a more varied diet would be benefited by more vitamin B, Dr. A. F. Morgan of the University of California, with Miss M. M. Barry, fed a group of undernourished school children between the ages of eleven and thirteen years, two rolls daily as supplements to their school lunch. The group was divided, half of them getting two rolls made with 50 per cent wheat germ, the other half receiving an equal number of rolls made entirely from white flour. The increase in weight of the wheat germ group was approximately three times that of the white rolls group. These experiments show conclusively the effects of a diet containing liberal amounts of vitamin B on growth and development. The presence of liberal amounts of vitamin B are also necessary for successful reproduction and lactation.
NATURE OF VITAMIN B
VITAMIN B is soluble in water and is widely distributed in natural foods. The richest sources are yeast and whole cereals. Vitamin B is found in the bran and germ of cereals. Among vegetables, dried beans and peas, green asparagus, sweet corn, parsnips, turnip greens, and watercress are good sources. All whole cereals, nuts and meat contain considerable amounts. Milk is not a rich source of vitamin B. Fruits are decidedly low in vitamin B content. Vitamin B is not destroyed in the ordinary processes of household cookery. Cooking at the boiling temperature, roasting or oven baking or pressure cooking for a period of time sufficient to cook any of the ordinary foods, will not destroy the vitamin B to any considerable extent. Vitamin B is readily destroyed if soda or any alkali is added to the food. The greatest loss of vitamin B values results in the mechanical preparation of foods or by throwing away the water in which foods are cooked. Often in the manufacture of foods such as cereal preparations, the outer coatings as well as the germ are removed, and with them goes the vitamin B values. Drying or freezing do not appear to affect the vitamin B values of foods. If care is used in the selection of foods containing vitamin B values, and if they are prepared for use and cooked so as to save the water soluble B, one can provide sufficient vitamin B. It will, however, be necessary to use whole cereals and nuts and use the water in which vegetables have been cooked.
VITAMIN B REQUIREMENT
Much experimental work is being done to determine the amount of vitamin B that is needed by the body. The American Medical Association suggests 50 international units daily for infants and up to 200 I. U. for adults. Since there is no evidence of harmful effect from excess vitamin B, one may safely feed more than the suggested amounts. The vitamin B requirement increases with the rate of growth and with increased energy expenditure, so all rapidly growing children and adults working hard physically should receive liberal amounts of vitamin B ranging from 300 to 600 I. U. daily.
The Vitamin B Values of Foods (Revised March, 1938)
The average vitamin B values per 100 grams or 3.6 ounces given in international units.
Food Units Almonds 50 Asparagus, green 120 Asparagus, bleached 50 Bacon 89 Beans, dried, Pinto 500 Beans, Kidney 150 Beans, Lima, fresh 75 Beans, Lima, dry 100 Buckwheat 110 Cabbage 26 Carrots 25 Chicken 80 Corn, sweet 103 Cornmeal, yellow 70 Cornmeal, white 100 Dates 25 Eggs 100 Farina 105 Filberts 206 Flour, white 15 Flour, graham 106 Flour, rye 100 Flour, whole wheat 150 Hazel nuts 150 Hominy, white 66 Hominy, yellow 66 Lamb 100 Lettuce, green 25
*Avitaminosis, Eddy and Dalldorf.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 304
Food Units Lettuce, bleached 17 Liver, beef 100 Liver, calf 50 Meat, average 35 Milk, malted 500 Molasses, cane 100 Molasses, beet 160 Oats 70 Oranges 28 Orange juice 30 Oysters 75 Parsnips 60 Pears 25 Peas, green 25 Peas, dried 70 Pecans 50 Pineapples 25 Pineapple juice 37 Pork, lean 180 Potato, sweet 35 Prunes, dried 50 Rice, brown 55 Rice polish 300 Salmon 25 Sausage, Bologna 175 Sausage, Pork 115 Soy beans 130 Spinach 30 Tomatoes, green 25 Tomatoes, ripe 24 Walnuts 60 Watercress 30 Wheat germ 600 Wheat bran 100 Yeast, Fleischmann 2000