The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHARACTERS AND Brief SYNOPSIS—3RD INSTALLMENT
FOURSQUARE, tall and gray, the Carey mansion stood on the shores of Puget Sound, towered over by the remnants of great fir forests. But its grandeur had fallen into decay now, as had its owner, "MISS BRILL" CAREY, gray-haired spinster, who made a meager living as a seamstress. Miss Brill had overdone her frail strength the day she had gone to a wealthy friend of her father's to ask for a job for her lovely young niece, red-haired NELL CAREY, who had ambitions to be an artist, but nothing to pursue them on. Her aunt was determined to provide this opportunity and in so doing, perhaps break up the girl's halfhearted engagement to FRED NAGLE, a materialistic young chicken farmer, who valued money too much to satisfy Miss Brill's more idealistic conception of what the husband of her adored Nell should be. On their way back from an early movie, Nell and Fred come upon Miss Brill beside the road, dazed and exhausted. She tells them of Nell's chance to study art. Fred is angry, but before he has a chance to voice his protests, Miss Brill has a stroke. Faced with the problem of giving up the career she has in sight, Nell promises Fred she will marry him at the end of summer if her aunt does not recover. Secretly she is aghast at the idea. Told by the doctor that the old lady's recovery is doubtful, the girl resolves to release Philander Maddox from his promise of a job and face the future at home. Old Philander Maddox shocks her by revealing that she is no relation to Miss Brill. Distressed by this news, Nell rushes out of the room, meeting at the Maddox entrance exotic, white-haired Miss Sally Delavan, who takes unusual notice of the girl. On the road home Nell passes a stranger coming from the Carey house, but is too absorbed in the new aspect of the problem of the duty she owes Miss Brill to notice him. She knows now that she, a stranger, has been taken into the heart and home of her "aunt", to whose care she must more than ever devote herself. Even if she must let Fred help her!
CHAPTER FOUR
THE morning wind blew chill off the Sound, though the sun was bright in a cloudless sky, and Nell shivered as she carried her weeding tools out to the vegetable garden behind the Alaska house. She would be warm enough, she knew, when she started annihilating quack grass. The garden had been forgotten these last few exciting days. The girl wore no hat, and the sun flashed mahogany-red lights from her lovely hair as her head nodded to the rhythm of the hoe. On the road up the slope a motor droned, stopped. Nell couldn't see the car. It was Fred, no doubt. He often drove down from Maple Hill after the morning work in the coops was done. She worked on a few minutes, then dropped the hoe, went softly through the corn up to the end of the cabin platform. A man with eyes covered by dark glasses was looking through the window into the Alaska house.
"What do you want?" Nell demanded angrily. She looked at him suspiciously. "I'll bet you are the man who nearly scared Mrs. Kelly speechless."
The man turned. He was tall and slender, and the face behind the enormous dark glasses was too pale for a healthy man. "H'm, so there is life in the old place. I'd begun to think I'd strayed into the decade before last." His voice was irritable, his mouth petulant.
Nell's gray eyes blazed. "You might have knocked at the door and found out. Or perhaps you are in the habit of looking into windows and snooping about places."
He laughed briefly. "Oh, I say! I haven't the energy to quarrel with you. I want to rent this dingus," he indicated the Alaska house, "and I want it at once."
Nell was shocked to the marrow by the mere thought. "Oh, no, it isn't for rent! Not possibly! So if that is all you want, I'll go back to my work." She started back through the corn again. The idea! Rent the Alaska house and Miss Brill would certainly have another stroke.
"Hey! You with the green smock and bad manners! Can't we talk it over? You don't even know what I'll pay," the tall man called angrily, striding after her.
Nell turned. "I said the house isn't for rent. That means it isn't for rent, in the King's English." She was so angry now her cheeks were scarlet, her hands shook. The very nerve of him!
"And why," demanded the man with equal heat, "isn't it for rent? I want the house. It's exactly what I need. I'd like to know just why it's too precious to rent." He was smilingly sarcastic now.
Nell longed to slap him hard, just once. "My grandfather built this place, just like his home in Alaska. It's filled with all sorts of relics, and he loved it better than any spot on earth. Since he died we've never used it. It's—it's sort of a shrine," Nell told him. That ought to convince him.
The man listened impatiently. "Nonsense," he said briefly, "I wouldn't eat the place. Would you mind letting me talk to the owner?"
"I can't," Nell said stubbornly, "she's ill."
The man shrugged and started for the house. Nell ran after him. He must be insane. No sane person acted like this. She was right on his heels, protesting, when he rapped on the open kitchen door.
Mary Kelly, working at the stove, saw the dark glasses and cried out, "You're that prowler! Get out of here or I'll have the law on you."
The determined intruder did not get out. "I'm sorry, madam, but I simply can't get any place with this young person here," he indicated the pursuing Nell with a wave of the hand. "All I want is to rent your cabin down by the water, although anybody would think I'd come to commit arson, at least."
Mary Kelly dried her hands. "She heard you," she said, nodding toward Miss Brill's open door, "come on in before she starts fretting."
So the three of them trooped into the invalid's room, and Nell, white with anger at this high-handedness, explained the offer to Miss Brill. When she was through, and ready to put this upstart man in his place, she was astounded to see the old lady indicate that she'd take the offer. And Nell had, perforce, to accept the money for the advance rent from this repugnant person, who bowed ironically over her hand and murmured, "Sorry, I take the decision on this round. Better luck next time."
SURELY life was hard enough right now without having a disagreeable man like this under one's very nose for three long months. "At least," said Nell to Miss Brill, "it'll pay Mary Kelly." And Miss Brill looked grimly satisfied. So that was why, Nell thought, humbled. She'd even let a stranger tramp around the Alaska house to save me worry. Impulsively she kissed the old lady's cheek and ran out of the room, flushing. They had never been demonstrative of their love, had Nell and Miss Brilliant.
She ought to like that man, Nell told herself, again at her hoe. The money was a life-saver. But she didn't. He wasn't young enough to interest her as a man. He looked all of thirty-five. And his arrogance, his supreme nerve, and his sarcastic manner! No, she did not like the new tenant of the Alaska house.
Mary Kelly's boy, who delivered Seattle papers about the countryside, whistled from the road. "Hey! I've got an extra Times today. Maybe your aunt would like it." He tossed it into the yard and rode away on his bicycle.
Nell picked up the paper and returned to the back steps. She might as well look it over before taking it in. A daily paper was a luxury the Careys did not often afford. On a back page a small item jostled the steamship arrivals for space. Nell read it and her face became radiant, as if a light had suddenly been turned on behind it. She read the item again, carefully, word for word. It seemed too wonderful to be true. An art scholarship, right in Seattle! Three of them, really—
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 307
for the first, second and the third best paintings. She had a month in which to paint a picture to enter in the contest. She would put everything that was in her into that picture; she would make it win the first prize—a year at the Marks School. And the victory would make Miss Brill better.
Excitedly, the girl ran into the kitchen and thrust the paper to Mary Kelly. "Johnny left it," she said, and stood on a chair to rummage in the high cupboard where she stored her few canvases, her tubes of precious paint.
Mrs. Kelly already had the paper open at the society section and was settled down to a few vicarious minutes with the world of greatness and fashion. "For-ever-more," she exclaimed, "Miss Sally Delavan is home from her world cruise and has"—she quoted, "'opened her palatial home on Queen Anne Hill'."
From her perch Nell looked down into the four-column pictured face of this lady with the familiar name. A lovely face framed in beautiful white hair! A face with enormous, bored gray eyes, and a peevish, lovely mouth.
"I've seen her," she said impulsively, "at the Maddoxes. Is she so important?"
"Important!" said Mary Kelly, who knew her social register. "She's the daughter of Francis X. Delavan, the big lumber man that was. And she travels the world over, like a witch was after her, that restless she is, and comes home to the big red stone house on the hill every so often when there's no place else to go. All alone she is, with all her family gone before her."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 308
"The poor thing," said Nell, "but with all that money, and so pretty, even with white hair—"
"It wasn't always white. I remember her when it was the color of yours, and the house was full of suitors. Why say," Mary Kelly exclaimed, "she looked the very image of you yourself as a young girl. Only more flashing and snobbish, if I may say it." And the large woman compared the girl and the pictured Miss Delavan with lively interest for a moment.
But Nell had turned back to her painting materials, her picture already taking shape in her eager mind. It must be a wonderful picture, with the magic and mystery of the early-morning Sound in it. It must win for her—that year that would be balm to Miss Brill. And in the back of her mind was another thought, that here was a reprieve if she won. She needn't be married—yet. Firmly Nell smothered this ungrateful thought. "I love him. Surely I do. He's so good, so dependable. It's just that I'm too young, that I won't be happy until I've tried this thing out." She piled brushes and canvases in her arms and jumped to the floor.
"That man in black glasses, from the Alaska house I guess you might say now, is movin' in," announced Mary Kelly. "I must say he didn't lose any time."
Nell frowned, her enthusiasm dampened for the moment. That man was like black clouds in an otherwise sunny sky.