Vol. XXVI MAY, 1939 No. 5
O?EDITORIAL?O
The Spirit Penetrateth
SO engrossed are people as a general rule in the mundane affairs of life that occasions are rare indeed when souls are deeply stirred with the finer emotions, "when the spirit penetrateth men's hearts and giveth them understanding". When these occasions do come, real values rush to the fore; life takes on new meaning, its purposes seem lofty, and in our hearts are born new resolves. Such an occasion was the opening General Session of our Relief Society Conference. From the opening number, O Morn of Beauty, rendered by our glorious Relief Society Singing Mothers, to the benediction minds were not only enlightened but souls were nourished. Rich in words of wisdom, beautiful with song, abundant with spirituality, the meeting reached its climax in the simple, sincere testimony "that God lives, that He hears and answers prayers, that Jesus is the Son of the Living God" borne by a sister from a far-away island home. The aloha of our Island sisters extended by Sister Salm, President of the Oahu Stake Relief Society, to all the Relief Society sisters of the world met a responsiveness in the hearts of everyone. Truly we experienced the power of the Gospel to make us one "even as the Father and I are one". The beautifully rendered Sanctus which followed Sister Salm's testimony, the concluding words of which are "Glory be to Thy Holy name for ever and evermore" left hearts touched and eyes moist. Nowhere in the world could be found a choicer group of women than those assembled at our Conference. Privileged women are they. Enjoying the light of the Gospel, their opportunities are abundant; likewise, their responsibilities are great. Their power as a leaven in a world sorely in need can scarcely be estimated. In closing the Conference President Robison's blessings, her earnest desire for the welfare of the women of the Church, and her deep concern that they fully measure up to their opportunities and responsibilities found an answering echo in the hearts of all. With the purposes of the great Organization to which we
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 311
belong redefined and reemphasized, with our souls touched with love and the spirit of the Almighty, with the prayer and blessing of a divinely chosen and inspired leader, future accomplishments should be great; our lives should enrich, elevate and bless the lives of thousands.