Woman As An Interpreter Of The Faith
By Maude Beeley Jacob
"The Lord giveth the word: the women that publish the tidings are a great host."
WOMAN'S position in the world today is in a large measure due to the humanizing power of Christianity. To a world of conflicting racial conditions, dominated by "might" rather than by "right," Jesus brought a new gospel, a gospel establishing the sacredness of the individual. To the humble fishermen of Galilee as to the rich young ruler; to the devoted Mary of Bethany as to the erring Mary of Magdala, Jesus taught the true meaning of life.
The story of civilization is a story of conquest, dominion, and achievement. In the conquest of the material world the conqueror is Man. Into the tapestry of civilization much that is good and beautiful has been woven by Woman. As the interpreter of life woman has played the role of the "finisher of civilization". Quick to love, to hope, to fear, the spiritual intuitions of woman have translated themselves into the ideals that have become the humanizing forces of society.
Looking into the Far Away there are three great races contributing to the general heritage of mankind. The Hebrew gave us our religion; the Greek gave us our standards of thought and beauty; and the Roman gave us our law and order. But it was Christianity that brought to woman a kingdom of usefulness and duty. Her influence has emanated in the past through religion, education, service, and art and through equality, altruism and love.
Now, as at all times, the greatest responsibility of woman is to become an interpreter of life to her generation. What then shall we say of this sacred role of woman? An interpreter is a discoverer, a translator, and an interpreter of the faith is one whose word or act or thought reveals the love of God and the meaning of life in such a way that others may understand. To comprehend the deep significance of her task she should be able to read in the heart of womankind the questions and challenges of the day. To gain courage for her task she can look at the noble lives of those who have preceded her as interpreters of the faith. For guidance she must ever follow Jesus of Nazareth who gave to the womanhood of his day knowledge and vision and hope.
Women today in the quest of the
288 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
meaning of life are asking the age-old questions: How did man and nature come to be? What are God's purposes for mankind? What is the relation between God and man? Is this life all? What is the source of evil in the world? How can the individual gain a knowledge of God's plan for man's eternal growth and happiness?
In the desire to live completely, women are seeking to understand the laws of their own being, the appetites, passions, motives, desires, and emotions that stir them to action and yield satisfactions by asking: Why am I an individual? How shall I live? What pleasures and satisfactions will yield most to living? What is the place of knowledge and self-control in the scheme of things? Can I by individual effort live in harmony with the highest ideals of living?
In the desire to understand the environment in which they live with its institutions and organizations, its customs and its laws, its progress and its conflicts, women are asking: What are my loyalties? What are my responsibilities? Have I an obligation for the continuance and refinement of society? Can injustice, inequality, greed, selfishness, corruption and crime be corrected? Can opportunity, liberty, and happiness be assured to all? What are the pitfalls of present living for myself and my offspring?
As life with all its complexity crowds upon her, from her innermost being issues the call for guidance, and from the great heart of her comes the desire to serve her generation.
The procession of women we have come to look upon as interpreters of the faith is a long one. It reaches from Sarah in her tent home on the Plains of Mamre, busy with her weaving and her breadmaking, to Madame Curie in her laboratory seeking a cure for human suffering. Many of the noble women who lead the procession are found in the Bible: Deborah, the valiant woman who stirred the youth of Israel to continue their fight for their national integrity; Ruth and her loving friendship for Naomi; Hannah, the lowly mother, preparing her only son for the service of the Lord; Esther, the patriotic queen, risking life itself for her people. Among the women of the New Testament record towers the life of Mary of Nazareth, following the life of her Divine Son. What suffering she knew! What glory she must have known! Mary and Martha of Bethany knew Jesus as few knew Him. He taught them, and they in turn served Him in their own home. Mary of Magdala knew in very deed the mission of Jesus to erring humanity. Lydia, the seller of fine purple, is a glorious figure of the missionary experiences of the apostles, giving her home, her resources, and herself in service. Paula, the Roman patrician, belongs to the women of the Bible, giving of her wealth to aid Saint Jerome while he made the translations of the sacred records to become the Bible was not all, but saving time from the menial duties of maintaining the little shelter at Bethlehem she rendered valuable assistance in translation, as she was an excellent Latin scholar. As the centuries passed, hosts of noble mothers, teachers, patriots, and leaders joined the ranks of the interpreters. We recall the hosts of mothers who, like Hannah of old, have stood beside little children and the young people of their homes with one hand in blessing upon their head while the other pointed the way to a worthy life. Our hearts salute those interpreters in church and school who have endeavored to interpret life to the youth of the age. 'Through the vision of such women as Alice Freeman Palmer and Mary Lyon, women have partaken of the blessings of education.