General Session (Afternoon Meeting) COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT While I am before you this afternoon, I pray that my heavenly Father will give me a portion of his holy spirit to guide what I may be directed to say. Many things have come into my mind that might be well to discuss with you at this time and it has been hard to choose just which to talk about. J would decide upon one theme and then upon another and finally I have left it to the inspiration of this afternoon to be directed upon the theme that will be best suited. You have been listening during the last two days now to instructions on how to prepare for the work that is before you in your communities, and you have heard marvelous things, and your expressions have been full of gratitude for the privilege of working in this organization. We have called 
; into service as you know, men and women of ability, experts in their lines, in order to give you help in your work. I think that perhaps this afternoon I shall talk to you about your own personal lives, about some of the things that you are all searching for. When I was a young girl, just a few years after I was married, I was very despondent and disappointed in some things, and so I went to the Book of Mormon; (one of our apostles "had said, "If you will read the Book of Mormon when you are discouraged, you will be encouraged," and so I took his advice.) I read this book carefully and I think the one outstanding sentence to me was, ''Man is that he might have joy." It was the Prophet Nephi who was writing. So I have been looking for the things that have brought joy into the lives of people that I have been privileged to associate with, and I have found that there is no greater joy than that which comes to the woman who is blessed with a family of little children, who has the honor and privilege of rearing these children. Only last Sunday it came more forcibly to me than at any one particular time, when a little mother came to my home with her two children, and as she laid her sleeping baby on the couch, and I was saying how beautiful and wonderful 'it was, she said, "Yes, I was saying to Gene this morning, 'If heaven is more wonderful than this baby, I don't believe I shall be able to stand it." Her emotions were so deeply stirred and she was so full of happiness and gratitude! I would like you workers to impress it upon' the women that you labor with—those that have large families and who sometimes feel that their burdens are more than they can bear——that no matter how heavy the burden is, no happiness can come like, that of being a mother and having the privilege of rearing -children. I have recently read the life of the great singer, SchumanHeink, whom with Sisters Lyman and Cannon I had the privilege of hearing sing at the grave of the Unknown Soldier on a Mothers' Day in Washington, D. C., and I have been impressed by the wonderful mother that she is. When I read of the devotion that she has given to her children, tears came to my eyes, and I thought that in spite of all that she has accomplished, nothing has been quite so great as the rearing of her children and the expressions she gives of the mother love she has. She tells when at one time she was filling an engagement in London, a telegram came stating that her baby was dying. She felt that she must leave the stage at once without giving any word to her manager, but she could not do that, because the atidience was there, but the moment the curtain went down, she flew from the stage with the paint on her face and hurried back to Germany and saved her baby's life. It cost the opportunity of ever singing in London again, but that could not compare with the thought that she might RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 lose her baby. When she came home from one of her engagements, one of her babies came to her and said, "Is your name 'Mama'?" That pierced her heart, and although she had left them in good care, it was a great blow to her, which she did not forget. The point I wish to impress you with is that the gift of motherhood was implanted in her heart and she did not let anything stand in the way of rearing her children correctly. We have mothers just as loyal and just as devoted here in our Church, and I want to say to you that there is no career that will justify any of our women in neglecting their little children. When my husband was on a mission, he and his companions were walking along the street and they saw a group of little children with dirty faces and ragged clothes, and the boys asked them where their mothers were, and one little 'boy answered, "They are off sewing for the poor heathens." I hope none of our women in their great anxiety to accomplish work for the benefit of the community will neglect their little children; they are not justified in doing so. In all this great work that we have to perform, there is something that is very important for us and that is the caring for our health. None of us can be happy if we are ill. While visiting you in your conventions, when the roll is called, it is found that some are absent on account of sickness and when this is the case, I always feel very sorry for the sisters who are detained on account of sickness, and I sometimes wonder if that sickness hasn't been caused from trying to carry too big a load. As I travel from Provo to Salt Lake many times during the year, I go over those wonderful well-built roads, and at the base there is a firm foundation, and if I see a chuck in the road, I say, "Why should there be a chuck in the road and why these places that are so rough to go over?" My husband answers that heavy trucks have gone over the road and broken the foundation and it makes a bad place in the road. If we are carrying too heavy a load our health is bound to break. The health foundation that we have is — broken and we are not able to carry on. I would advise the sisters that if they find they are carrying too heavy a load, to be relieved of a little of it—put it on to the shoulders of some other person who is not carrying quite stich a heavy load, and do not break down your health, because you cannot find happiness if your health is gone. I want to say a word of encouragement and love to the dear sisters who are carrying on this work, who in many instances have had their worldly possessions slip through their fingers, and who have met with reverses and disappointments and yet have gone on with this work. They will get happiness from the performance of their duties. T bow my head in gratitude to my heavenly Father for the noble women laboring in this Relief Society work, whose hearts have been bowed with trouble and 
 sorrow, whose loved ones have been taken from them, and yet they acknowledge their heavenly Father's hand in these things, and go on in their Relief Society work and use it as an opportunity to gain happiness. To them Iam very grateful. They are wonderful examples of the woman who finds joy and happiness in acquiescing in her lot. Let us get joy and happiness out of the things that God has given to'us to enjoy. Let us try and take happiness into the Gara we go as teachers—let us not talk of our troubles, but remember that we must preach happiness and joy and satisfaction; that is our mission. Let us leave our own troubles behind. The great Persian writer said: "What boots you to repeat Our time is slipping underneath our feet, Unborn tomorrows and dead yesterdays. What of this? What of this, if today be sweet?" May your days be sweet; may you have faith in our heavenly ather, and satisfaction in your mission of service.: MRS. LALENE H. HART Member of General Board I cannot help but make one observation in connection with the organization of the Relief Society that Sister Lyman has just given us that has impressed me so much, perhaps because in the last few weeks I have had occasion to look up some of the rights of women, and I find that at the time Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, that it was a great question in the minds of thinkers and writers as to just what rights women should have, and as J was looking over some of the rights that women have under the law in our own state and in this Church, I can but feel that we are a blessed body of women. In this state women have all of the rights that belong to men and some more, and that is the way that the prophet interpreted the revelations that were given to him, that the women should stand side by side and shoulder to shoulder with man. When we think of the development of women since that time, we can realize that he was inspired and becatise of his teachings, light has come out of darkness and order out of chaos, and peace and satisfaction have come where there was trouble. I am glad that I have the privilege of being here and living in this wonderful age—an age when there has been so much development in science and art and all of the things that have been given to us for our education and benefit. There have heen so many things provided for our comfort. At anytime we can, through magazines, newspapers or radio, know what is going on — an nn RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 in the world and we can keep abreast of the times if we will. I am wondering while we are appreciating all of these opportunities and comforts if we are not prone to forget the Giver of all these beautiful gifts to us. I believe that all of these wonderful things that we have been successful in doing—the wonderful things that the women of our Church are doing are accomplishedthrough faith and spirituality, and that we are stimulated by the faith and works of those who have preceded us. I believe that in all of the things that we yet have to do, the problems that we yet have to solve, and the things that are yet to be done, it will take abiding faith and spirituality for us to accomplish them. I believe that the Spirit of the Lord will be given unto us just as we live for it. I believe that we will have to make these bodies of ours fit dwelling. Places for the holy Spirit and I believe that we will have to educate our feelings in such a way that we will appreciate the true manhood and womanhood that we come in contact with. I believe that we will have to educate our feelings in that way that will tend to lift us to higher ideals and lift our lives to the ideal of the Church, and keep us in that spiritual line that we may develop as we should. If we look into the lives of great men and women, we tind the cause that made them great has not been the superior knowledge that they have gained, or their selfishness for material things, but it has been the spiritual influence that has given them the desire to do the great things that they have done. This morning you heard of the constitution and the things that we should do to uphold it, and of the great men that helped make it, and we heard things concerning Abraham Lincoln. It was not the superior influence that Abraham Lincoln gained, or the way he carried on his administration, but the influence that his mother had on him in a spiritual way, that made mankind eulogize him in song and in history, cast him in bronze and in marble, and made him one of the immortals. As Sister Williams told you, I shall go with my husband in the near future to the Canadian mission, where he has been appointed to preside, and I assure you that it is with mingled feelings of joy, and I was going to say sadness, that I undertake this new responsibility. I am happy because of the education and the service the work will bring, sorry because of my inability to take on the new responsibility, because J realize my own limitations. I heard one of the elders. Of our Church say not long ago that if any call came from the authorities at any time, that it should be considered as a call from the Lord, and that if we expect the Lord to help us and to give to us those things that we desire, we should stand ready to give to him of our time, talents, or means to help save the souls of mankind. I have been brought to appreciate during this conference, more fully the blessings of the Lord that are mine because the Lord has been good to me. It was through 
 his kindness and mercy that I was permitted to continue my association with the members of this board, and I want to assure you that I love them—every member, and I love you, dear sisters who are sacrificing so much in giving service to others, and I appreciate so much the generosity and the sympathy that has been extended to me in the stakes and wards that I have visited. While I shall not for a time be permitted to meet with you in board meeting or in conference, perhaps I may feel your spirit by mothering the boys and the girls that will have the privilege of going into the Canadian mission. I believe there is no greater joy that can come to a mother or a father than to have a son or a daughter perform well a mission in the world. I do not know of any greater sorrow that can come to a father or a mother than to have a boy sent into the mission field, who does not perform that mission as he should. I assure you with all my heart that I shall try to guide and protect as far as it is my duty to do, the boys and girls that come under my direction. I would like to leave this one thought with the sisters, with all the other problems that they are to solve. I wonder if we might make our boys feel a little more the great responsibility and the sacredness of the Priesthood which they bear. I believe that is our duty, mothers, to make them feel the sacredness of the Priesthood, because it is something that they cannot regard lightly if they want the blessings of the Lord to be with them. I humbly pray that we may have the Spirit of the Lord in all the things that we undertake to do, and I trust you may go home from this conference in peace and safety and with satisfaction in your hearts that you have gained something that will help you to carry on the work you have to carry on. Ew! And Fast ELECTRIC WASHER Here is the latest and highest development in washing machines—a speedy, efficient electric washer with every feature a modern washer should have. 'The marvelous new Apex handles a standard 8 pound load at_a single washing and does an average week's laundry in one hour. Terms to suit your convenience. Come in today for a demonstration. INTERMOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO. 43-69 East 4th South Was, 354 \ bd __y » Vg ) Temple and MAGAZINE Burial Clothes n WILL PAY 20¢ per copy for 2 Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. 1 complete vol., 1917, or single May, July, October, 1917 GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY Mail to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE N y X When Buying Mention Relief Society Magassne COMPLETE SUITS pk 2 MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Open Daily, 9 a. M—5 p. M.