EDITORIAL NOTES.

	TO-DAY the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake are
holding their conference in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall. The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake
are holding conference in the Tabernacle in
Ogden City to-day.
	AT the Relief Society conference held in this
City yesterday, the house was filled to overflowing.
Interesting speeches were made by Prest. M.
Isabella Horne, Prest. Zina D. H. Young, Sisters
B. W. Smith, Susan S. Young, Prest, Mary A.
Freeze; and Sister Mary A. Clark of Farmington,
and other ladies. The subjects treated upon
were home manufacture, seri culture, the storing
of wheat, memberships for the Deseret Hospital,
and other matters of importance to the Society.
Prest. Horne read a letter from a missionary now
in England, asking her to use her influence to-
wards raising means to help a family of the
Latter-day Saints there,who are in very distressed
circumstances. The ladies generously contri-
buted the sum of fifty dollars at the afternoon
meeting of the same day.
	THE conference of the Relief Society held in
Ogden yesterday was well attended notwithstand-
ing the rain storm. On the platform were seated
a number of prominent ladies of the Junction
City, as also several Bishops. Prest. Jane S.
Richards presided with her usual quiet dignity:
the principal subjects treated upon were charity,
the importance of woman's position in the home
and in society, her influence for good and her just
rights as a citizen in reference to laws and gov-
ernment. Bishop Wallace of North Ogden made
an elegant and earnest appeal in behalf of woman's
privileges, and the audience listened with rapt
attention. Mrs Richards made some timely re-
marks at the close of the meeting; her words
were well chosen, and her voice and manner
calculated to make a deep and lasting impression.
Mrs. Richards has been for many years now, en-
gaged in benevolent work among the sisters in
Weber Stake and her labors have resulted bene-
fiically for all the Associations in that locality.
	On Saturday, afternoon, March 9th, the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association held a meeting in
the Social Hall in this City commencing at 2 p.m.
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, first vice-President presided.
Prayer was offered by the Hon. H. J. Grant,
then followed the reading of the minutes, and a

[Column 2]

short but comprehensive speech by Mr. Grant,
on the subject of Woman Suffrage, rights, etc.
Mrs Emily S. Richards, the Utah delegate to the
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. at Wash-
ington, gave a synopsis of her work in the in-
terest of the women of Utah. Mrs. Richards
spoke in a clear and forcible manner, plainly
indicating that her heart was in her subject.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
were the other speakers; and both gave evidence
of their ability to present the subject of Suffrage
for Women in a very able and impressive style.
The women of Utah are perfectly capable of
managing political associations, and it is earnestly
hoped that the efforts being made will result in
good and hasten the day, when the rights so un-
justly wrested from them may be restored. It is
expected a sort of convention will be held in
April, at which delegates from other parts of the
Territory will be in attendance.
	Miss Mary L. Booth editor of Harper's Bazar
who died March 5th, in New York City, was a
most remarkable woman, and filled a very impor-
tant position as editor of one of the most popular
journals of the day. Miss Booth has been a
translater of many valuable books from the French
and German. One of them has been highly
complimented  by some of the greatest writers of
our time. "Uprising of a Great People" trans-
lated during the civil war from Count de Gasparin's
was said by Charles Sumner to be worth a whole
phalanx in the cause of human freedom. "The
History of New York," written by Miss Booth,
has had a very large sale. Several copies of it
have been illustrated and one given her by an
eminent bibliopolist containing 2000 pictures, and
another in Chicago, having been enlarged to
twenty-two volumes. She was also, notwith.
standing her acknowledged literary merit and
proclivities, a charming woman, in her own home
in New York City, of which it has been said "it
is one of the most delightful places in the world."
this is a tribute every woman would be proud to
have bestowed upon her. Such women are
missed when they take their departure hence;
but fortunately for the age in which we are living
there are many women prepared to take up the
work where others leave off, and they will be the
better for such examples as those of Miss
Booth both in her public duties and her home life.


