UTAH'S ADMISSION.

	Synopsis of the report by the Committee on
Territories, in relation to Utah being admitted
as a State into the Union.
	"It commences by setting forth the doctrine
that when Congress organizes a Territory and
provides a territorial government for the peo-
ple therein, it is with the implication that they
shall have a State Government, and it is
with this promise held out to them that
they occupy and develop the public domain,
and their right to a State government, cannot be
denied, when the proper conditions are fulfilled,
without bad faith on the part of Congress, unless
there are circumstances that relieve Congress
from a duty that would otherwise be imperative.
	"The conditions in Utah are then set forth and
the statements made by the gentlemen who ap-
peared before the committee in behalf of Utah's
admission are virtually adopted by the committee
as incontrovertible facts. The area, population,
products, manufactures, mining interests, schools,
churches, moral status of the people, finance of
the Territory, etc., are given with details and
statistics that are of great value in a public docu-
ment of this character, with the deduction that
the conditions exist which entitle Utah to admis-
sion as a State, and that it is of national import-
ance that Utah should have a State government."
	Then follows the objections whieh are, First,

[Column 2]

"The existence of polygamy," Second, "The
power and teachings of the "Mormon" Church
on that subject." Discussing these and sum-
ming the matter up it resolves itself in this form,
"whether a Territory will be excluded from the
Union for opinions entertained by a majority of
the people;" and also "the question whether
polygamy is by the Mormon Church made manda-
tory or permissive." The statements on both
sides are fairly presented in brief, and it is made
clear that the Utah Legislature never established
polygamy, and that the large majority of the people
have never practiced it."
	"The committee leave the dispute to the con-
sideration of the House, with the plain reference
that on a simple question of belief, Congress will
not attempt to decide, and that the members of a
society or sect ought to know better than their
opponents what their true belief is on any article
of their creed, also that this cannot well be made
a basis of legislation. That Congress would
hardly undertake to legislate in regard to a belief
that was avowed; certainly would not venture so
far as to act against or because of a belief that is
disputed."
	The provisions of the new Constitution for
Utah on this question are thus considered, and also
"the powers of Congress after admission." After
this and much more, than we have space to use at
the present, the document concludes with the
following:
	"Notwithstanding, and in view of the fact that
the present Congress is soon to expire and pro-
bably without opportunity on the part of the
House to consider this subject, your committee
deem it just to all parties concerned to present to
the House the condition of Utah as to population,
resources, development, schools, etc., and the
extent to which polygamy exists as above set
forth, together with the respective contentions as
to the doctrines of the 'Mormon' Church, and the
good faith of the 'Mormon' element in respect of
the offer to make polygamy a crime by a constitu-
tional provision, not repealable except with the
consent of Congress.
	"The indications are certainly very strong that
in the distant future, polygamy, in fact, will have
ceased to exist, and when that time arrives, if not
sooner admitted, the question will have to be met,
whether Congress will exclude Utah as a State
because a majority of the people are members of
the 'Mormon' Church.
	"Having thus presented the situation as dis-
closed at the hearing, the bill is reported back;
with the recommendation that it be placed on the
calendar for consideration and action thereon by
the House."
	From the report of this committee one would
naturally be led to the conclusion that Utah would
be admitted into the Union of States in the near
future. Great credit is due to the committee from
Utah who have labored so energetically to present
the claims of the Territory to the President and
to the Congress of the United States, and to the
Honorable Delegate whose views and opinions on
this subject have been so ably set forth.
	The people should not slacken their efforts
because the situation of affairs seems more propi-
tious, but still persist in the endeavor to obtain that
to which Utah is justly entitled. Perhaps after a
long series of importunities it may be, like the
story of the woman in Scripture, importuning the
unjust judge, who granted her prayer at last
because he was wearied by her persistency.


