THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	Benjamin Harrison, the new President who
has just been inaugurated, is a native of Indiana,
and grandson of the former president of the
same name and his great-grandfather was con-
spicuous during the Revolutionary war. This illus-
trious progenitor of the President was Speaker of
the House of Burgesses, of Virginia, in the early
period of the history of the United States, and
afterwards Delegate to the Continental Congress,
and elected Governor of Virginia three times. He
voted for the Declaration of Independence, and
it also bears his signature.
	His grandfather William Henry Harrison was
a distinguished military man, his successes in
that time were quite notable in history, he was
engaged in several historical conflicts. In the
war of 1812 "he had command of one of the three
divisions of the American army, the Army of the
North West." Harrison run for president against
Van Buren in 1836, and his popularity as a suit-
able leader of the people during that campaign
became so apparent that he was renominated in
1840.
	The writer well remembers the great enthus-
iasn that spread through the country at that time.
The novelty of the paraphernalia exhibited during
the electioneering has probably much to do with the
impressions made upon the populace and natur-
ally enough too; log houses in miniature and
barrels marked "hard cider," and pictures of the
same were displayed at every available time and
place. The songs were all of the same sort of
style and characteristic of the backwoods and
Indian battles. The ringing chorus of "Tippe-
canoe and Tyler too," has never quite died out
although nearly half a century has since elapsed.
	Notwithstanding the uncommon eclat that
ushered in the Harrison administration and the 
hopes entertained of the success of the Republi-
can party with him as its acknowledged leader—
the people were doomed to disappointment, for in
one month from the day of his innuguration, he
lay prostrate and lifeless, in the White House
whither he had gone only such a short time before
buoyant with hope, and amid the rejoicings of the
multitudes that throng the Capitol on these great

[Column 2]

occasions. It was thought with Daniel Webster
as Secretary of State, and an able Cabinet of
some of the wisest men of the age, the people had
a right to expect a brilliant term; but in this as in
many other instances, "man proposes and God
disposes."
	The father of the new President was the third
son of the one in whose honor so many camp fires
were built and stump speeches made in 1840,
strange to say, however, John Scott Harrison was
a Democrat in politics, and not at all ambitious for
office, although he was twice elected to Congress
from his district, and in 1861 nominated by the
Democratic State Convention for Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor of Ohio, but he declined the honor, a fact
which might seem questionable to the office-
seekers of to-day, were it not too well authenti-
cated. His second son was the newly-elected
President, Benjamin Harrison, who was born in
North Bend, Ohio, August 20, 1833.
	Mrs. Harrison, the present mistress of the
White House is a minister's daughter, the Rev.
John W. Scott, D. D., of Oxford, Ohio. Mr.
and Mrs. Harrison were married October 20,
1853, when the young man was only twenty
years of age, and his bride seventeen. They
had already been engaged two years. Soon
after their marriage they moved to Indiana-
polis, where they have ever since resided. Mrs.
Harrison is said to be "bright, well-read, accom-
plished, an artist, and in character dignified,
hearty and sympatheric." She has not allowed
herself to be outgrown by her husband intellec-
tually, but has kept up with him in those pursuits
that entitle her to rank by his side even at the
nation's capitol. She has had some practical ex-
perience in Washington society, having lived
there while her husband was in the Senate.
There can be no doubt in the minds of those who
have seen her portrait, of her strength of charac-
ter, and she will in all probability act her part
with grace and genuine attractiveness, doing
the honors of the Presidential Mansion as well at
least as any of her predecessors. It is "devoutly
to be hoped" that her life there with that of her
distinguished husband may be as happy as in their
own quiet home, and that the womanly sentiment
so strong in her home life, may not be without
its correspondingly beneficial effects upon the
affairs of the nation.


[Column 1]﻿

