TO THE BLUE ANEMONE.
		Flower of starry clearness bright,
		Quivering urn of color’d light,
		Hast thou drawn thy cup’s rich dye
		From the intenseness of the sky?
		From a long, long fervent gaze
		Through the year’s first golden days;
		Up that blue and silent deep,
		Where, like things of sculptured sleep,
		Alabaster clouds repose
		Witb the sunshine on their snows?
		Thither was thy heart’s love turning,
		Like a censer ever burning,
		Till the purple Heavens in thee,
		Set their smile, Anemone?

		Or can those warm tints be caught
		Each from some quick glow of thought?
		So much of bright soul there seems
		In thy bendings and thy gleams,
		So much thy sweet life resembles
		That which feels and weeps and trembles,
		I could deem thee spirit fill’d,
		As a reed by music thrilled,
		When thy being I behold
		To each loving breath unfold,
		Or like woman’s willowy form,
		Shrink before the gathering storm, 	
		I could ask a voice from thee,
		Delicate Anemone !

		Flower ! the laurel still may shed
		Brightness 'round the victor’s head,
		And the rose in beauty’s hair
		Still its festal glory wear,
		And the willow leaves droop o’er
		Brows which love sustains no more:
		But by living rays refined,	
		Thou, the trembler of the wind,
		Thou, the spiritual flower,
		Sentient of each breeze and shower,
		Thou, rejoicing in the skies,
		And transpierced with all their dyes:
		Breathing rare,with light o’er-flowing,
		Gemlike to thy centre glowing,
		Thou the poet’s type shall be,
		Flower of soul, Anemone !
	We were about to quote another of Mrs.
Heman’s beautiful poems, but were caught in
a labyrinth of lovely things, so exquisite, that
to make a choice were a difficult matter. “Our
Daily Paths,” “Kindred Hearts,” “The Dial
of Flowers,” “Despondency and Aspiration,”
“The Invocation,” “The Hour of Prayer,” and
many others are more than favorites. Every
true lover of poetry should have a copy of Mrs.
Hemans, which can be obtained of John B.
Alden,393 Pearl St. N. Y., beautifully bound in
half Russia,marbled edges,post paid,sixty cents.
	We will close this article with another quota-
tion from this favorite author:
	Forgive, O Father ! if presumptuous thought
		Too daringly in aspiration rise !
	Let not thy child all vainly have been taught
		By weakness, and by wonderings, and by sighs
	Of sad confession! lowly be my heart,
		And on its penitential altar spread
	The offerings worthless, till thy grace impart 
		The fire from Heaven, whose touch alone can shed
	Life, radiance, virtue ! let that vitat spark
	Pierce my whole being, wildered else and dark !
	Thine are all holy things—O, make me Thine,
	So shall I too be pure—a living shrine
	Unto that spirit, which goes forth from Thee,
	Strong and divinely free.
	Bearing thy gifts of wisdom on its flight,
	And brooding o’er them with a dove-like wing,
	Till thought, word, song, to thee in worship spring,
	Immortally endowed for liberty and light.”—
				Despondency and Aspiration.
