SISTER.

	"They who are tithed shall not be burned,"
so saith the good book. Who are tithed that
they may escape? We read again, "The earth
shall be burned, and few men be left." A cer-
tain marshal has been appointed receiver of
the property of the Church of Jesus Christ of,
Latter-day Saints. This reminds me of an in-
scription placed oyer the body of our Savior.
What does this language imply? It is evident
to any reflecting mind that they who meddle
with such things will have to give an account
to Christ for taking that which was given ac-
cording to His word. He did by command-
ment require the Latter-day Saints to pay
tithing. And with willing hearts and hands
they comply and pay a tenth of their in-
crease.
	Now, dear Saints, do not falter, but pay the
best you have and the first. By doing this
you will receive a greater blessing. Malachi,
iii, 10: "Bring ye all the tithes into the store-
house, that there may be meat in mine house,
and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of
hosts, if I will not open you the windows of
heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that
there shall not be room enough to receive it."
The people constitute the Church of Christ,
and they own the property. God will sustain
them in their rights. They gave it willingly
for the building up of God's kingdom, and did
not retain it to aggrandize themselves. The peo-
ple appointed honorable men by their voice, in
whom they put their trust and confidence, with
power to appropriate it for that purpose. This
is the kingdom that Daniel saw set up on the
earth in the last days, in the interpretation of
Nebuchednezzar's dream. Daniel ii, 44:
"And in the days of these kings shall the
God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall
never be destroyed, and the kingdom shall not
be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it
shall stand forever." "There was a stone cut
out without hands, which smote the image and
became a great mountain, and filled the whole
earth." What was in the dream was to be in
the latter days, when there would be ten kings
to represent the ten toes of the great image.
We read that all things will be restored as at
the beginning. The word to the Latter-day
Saints is, "Keep my law of tithing, which
shall be a standing law to my people forever."
Doctrine and Covenants. St. John i: "In the
beginning was the Word, and the Word was
with God, and the Word was God." This the
Latter-day Saints believe, that they must live
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God. They believe the Bible to be
the word of God, that they should put works
with their faith. No one that is not a member

[Column 2]

of the Church of Christ has any right to use
or handle its effects, and they who do will be
in the same predicament as the enemies of the
Jews, when they took the ark of the covenant,
they were visited with God's judgments and
were glad to return it, as God would not suffer
it to be polluted, and the sacred things to be
destroyed which it contained.
	The ten commandments were preserved there-
in and handed down to us, one of them reads
thus: "Thou shalt not covet anything thy
neighbor hath." Yet what the Latter-day
Saints possess is coveted, their lands and
chattels, and are taken by a process of law
to suit their own partial conceptions. Why
are the learned lawyers and Congressmen so
tenacious about a few, that were expelled
from civilization and sacrificed all they had of
earthly possessions. What was their great
offense? They connected themselves with the
true Church of Christ, wherein is unity, from
the beginning in the Church of Christ we are
instructed and led by the spirit of prophecy,
which is the word of God and coming from
Him is in full force through His servants hold-
ing the eternal Priesthood, and their word will
have its fulfilment spoken by the power of the
Holy Ghost, knowledge comes through this
source to the people and they become one, and
except they are, Christ said, "They are not
His." What then are our opposers trying to
do? Disunite us, that we shall not be Christ's.
But we will with our voice and mind pay our
tithes and obey Him. Malachi: "Then they
that feared the Lord spoke often one to another;
and a book of remembrance was written before
him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon his name."
	"And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of
hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels;
and I will spare them, as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him."
	"Then shall ye return, and discern between
the righteous and the wicked, between him
that serveth God and him that serveth him
not." Some think, that this was spoken only to
the house of Israel, but it was plainly to the
righteous, that thought upon the name of the
Lord. We read that all shall be rewarded
according to the deeds done in the body
whether good or evil, and all will be judged
out of the books written. No weapon formed
against Zion shall prosper. The pen that is
weilded to bear false witness, or make partial
laws for this people will fail and come to
naught. They are far reaching, does not the
Catholic church and other churches own enough
property to buy out the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints? They pay their minis-
ters big salaries, and rent their pews for a sum
of money which we cannot afford. The scrip-
tures say the Gospel is free to all mankind.
	St. John: "Saw an angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting Gos-
pel to preach to every nation." Are the people
any more prepared to received it now, at this
time, than in the days of our Lord and Savior.
He will have his Gospel preached just the
same now as then. Who will receive it, in its
purity and fulness? The Latter-day Saints
who are pure in heart, and persecuted for the
truth's sake. A tithed people.
