DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel it my duty to write a few lines for our
valuable little paper.  Our position at the
present time, I fear, is not appreciated as it
should be; I never saw the time in my life that
I felt so thankful as I do at the present; I feel
to thank my Heavenly Father every day of my
life, for I know he has healed me through the
administrations of his Elders.
	About a year ago I had an ovarian tumor
start in my right side, and I began to bloat up
and feel miserable; at first I did not know
what was the matter with me, but as the
tumor grew I could feel it throb and beat, and
then I knew by what I had read that it was a
tumor. I kept getting larger all the time un-
til I could scarcely get around, and sometimes
I would be in such dreadful pain, that I could
scarcely endure it; I would send for the Elders
continually, but still I grew worse. I did not
know what to do; I had so many times in my
life been healed by the Elders, I began to feel
nearly discouraged. I well remember one day
about the middle of last August, I was suffering
terribly; I could not get in any position to get
one bit of ease, and it seemed as though I
could not live the pain was so great; my hus-
band was in the field cutting lucern at the
time. I sent one of the children after him and
one after the elders; they administered to me;
the moment they took their hands off my head
the tumor burst and the water ran freely; the
pain gradually went away, but I could not lie
down; the moment I attempted it the water
would rush to my heart and nearly smother
me. This was on Thursday, and the next
Sunday night I was so bad that I sat in the
rocking chair all night except what time I was
walking the floor. That night I told my hus-
band we would have to put a little more work
with our faith or I could not live; the next
day he went to Ogden and brought Dr. Allen.
When the doctor looked at me he said he
would tap me if I was not so weak; I told him
if he could relieve me to do so, and I would
run the risk of standing it. He put a band
around me and I went through the operation.
I sat in a chair, held a cup in one hand the
tube in the other, until three gallons of liquid
were taken from the tumor, and that night I
had a good rest; the doctor advised me to go
to Salt Lake City and get Dr. Richards to take
the tumor from me and the next Wednesday
morning my husband and I went. We went
to the Deseret Hospital and sent for Dr.
Richards; he came and talked very kind and
encouraging to me. He said he could not take
the tumor juat then, the weather was too warm;
he told me to go back home and wait until the
weather was cooler and then he would do all he
could for me. I came back home and the
tumor began to fill up again and grew very
fast; I began to wonder if I could never get
well, so I thought I had better prepare for the
worst. So the first thing I began to wish our
children could be sealed to us, for we had five
children before we were sealed at the altar.
We had four children married and three were
living in Snake River Valley. I wrote to
them and told them my condition, and that if
they could possibly come I would like to have
them do so, and they were soon all ready to go
 to the temple; we went, had our work done and
returned home. By this time it was getting
cool weather, and I was getting larger every
day, and I had to sit up and sleep, and some
days I had to be propped up in bed. I knew
there was only one chance for me to live, and I
thought I would take that chance; we got ready
to go to Salt Lake, though I did not know
how I could go; I had been in bed several days,
my husband was wondering how I could stand
the trip the way I was, so the night before we


were to start he said to me "we will have the
Elders come, and have them pray for you,"
so he went and brought three elders and they
administered to, and prayed for me; and they
all promised me I should go, have the tumor
taken, and return home safe again, and I be-
lieved every word they promised me. I had a
good rest that night, and got up next morning
and I felt as if I was healed; we went to Salt
Lake, went back to the Hospital, and found
Dr. Richards just as good as his word. He
had the best room in the Hospital all cleaned
and prepared for the operation. On the morn-
ing of October the 14th, the good and wise
doctor had everything arranged in the best of
order for the operation  I got up that morn-
ing and felt thankful that the day had come
that I would get rid of the worst trouble I had
ever had about me. At half-past twelve I
mounted the operation table without a doubt in
my mind, took the ether, and did not know any
more until four o'clock; then I woke np and
found myself in a nice warm bed. I got along
splendid; I never felt so thankful in all my
life. The tumor and all the water were fifty
pounds; only think of carrying fifty pounds;
the tumor when empty was twelve pounds; I
was in bed twenty days, and then I was up
five days before I came home. I had the best
of care, my husband sat right by my bed, and
I had a good kind nurse, and my doctor never
neglected me not in the least.
	If any of my sisters ever get in the same
condition that I have been in. I hope they will
take my advice and go to Dr. Richards, for
we have proved him and Dr. Allen to be
gentlemen in every respect. I never can forget
their kindness towards me, and every one in the
Hospital was very kind to me; and the good
Elder that never forgot me, he came and I
was healed. If I had not been under the care
of the doctor I would have got up, for I was 
healed, there is no mistake about it. The
same day Sister Zina Young came to see me,
she told me I would get well and return home
all right. God bless all my good sisters, I re-
main as ever,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace.
