YOUNG WRITERS.

“He that writes,
Or makes a feast, more certainly invites
His judges than his friends; there’s not a guest
But will find something wanting, or ill-drest.”
	
	There is perhaps not a class of people in the
world who are more severely criticized than
writers; and I was about to say, they are the
most sensitive, and suffer most under it; that
may be wrong, however I do not assert it as 
positive.  We hear remarks occasionally some-
thing like these: “There are too many books;”
“There are too many scriblers who fancy they
can write, who push their works upon the pub-
lic;” “The world is full of them, we don’t
want so much rhyming and scribbling, we
want real poetry and prose, worth careful
reading;” “We want depth of thought and
sentiment, and eloquent and brilliant expres-
sion; not so many common place writers.” All
this is very discouraging to the young, to the
beginner, who must first try his skill and
strength in the path of literature; I know some
will say that one should keep the first efforts to 
themselves, but the writer is not a good critic,
he cannot possibly judge, without prejudice in
favor of his own work; of course he should
revise, correct and re-write, but some one else
must be the judge.  The world is not made up 
of geniuses, in fact they are very few, and
those few are often in need of a balance.  If
only literary geniuses produced books and 
writings, the world would be scantily provided
with literature; great writers are about as
scarce as great singers, and what should we do
in all our little villages, in all our homes, our
schools, and our churches, if people refused to
sing because some one had succeeded in achiev-
ing a great musical triumph, and possessed a 
voice like a nightingale, and had set the world
in a furore; if such were the case the world
would not be so full of music as it is, and
many a sad heart would lack the sweet consola-
tion and healing balm that comes through the
soothing influence of song; it is a blessed thing,
to be able to sing, or play on a musical instru-
ment.  It gives relief to the feelings, and
voice and expression to the holiest emotions
of the soul; then let us encourage all that
which elevates and purifies; and whatever
opens up avenues for the exalted emotions of
the human soul, tends to fuller development of
the inner life and promotes that higher culture,
which is a step in advancement towards the ex-
altation we all desire to attain.
	Instead of discouraging those who have a 
desire to write, even though their efforts are
poor, rather stimulate them to greater dili-
gence, and more presistent effort, in cultivating
the talent with which they have been endowed,
or in pouring forth the song which is welling 
up in the soul.  We have not too many writers,
nor too many books in my humble opinion.
We had far better pay out more money for
books and reading matter, and less for many
other things not so useful or pleasant in a 
home.  I hope to see the day when in every
home in the land, there will be a library of 
choice books and papers, suited to different
tastes, and also musical instruments, and other
attractions for a home that will elevate the
minds of the inmates and produce a higher
mental and spiritual atmosphere, and make 
mankind more godlike in intelligence, which is
said to be the glory of God, Himself. 
	How foolish it would be when one has a song
upon his lips not to pour it forth, because some
who are learned and able will criticise him
severely and unjustly; such a one is unjust to
himself, and is not making use of the talent
committed to his keeping, and will one day be
held accountable for hiding it.  He indeed
lacks fortitude, and needs encouragement from
those who are stronger or braver.  St. Paul
says, let those who are strong bear the burdens
[Column 2]
of those who are weak, and if we truly loved
one another we would be more willing to do
this;  but instead of such being the case,
many are ready to pull down and discourage
those who are using their best endeavors to
benefit the world of mankind, and often crush
the one who is struggling against difficulties,
when they might reach out and help him; a
little influence to support one in making an
earnest effort to develope his gifts is most
welcome, and the gratitude of the receiver is
ample recompense, for it is always more blessed
to give than to receive.
	I know it is said true genius will surmount
every difficulty and rise triumphantly in the 
greatest emergency, but unless the genius has
an indomitable will, or destiny has given him
a particular mission to fill, such will not of
necessity be the case; most geniuses have had
patrons, men or women of influence, who have
brought them forward, for true merit is modest
and retiring, besides, geniuses are rare—they
are like precious diamonds—but there are a 
quantity of other gems, and people with one
talent or two are much more common in this
world than those gifted with ten.
	Every human soul wants some development
mentally, and one day we shall become more
fully alive to this truth.  In the Gospel there 
is full scope for this development if it were un-
derstood.  There are many superior advantages
for the Latter-day Saints that will, when com-
prehended, more fully satisfy the yearnings of
the human soul. But I am anticipating, to come back to the
question under consideration in regard to writ-
ing and writers, we would say, never shrink
from a duty because there is another who can 
perform it better, let not your heart fail you
from writing a few lines because you are not
equal to Thackeray, or Carlyle, or George
Eliot, or George Sand, or Harriet Beecher
Stowe, but write in your own simple, unaffected,
unpretentious style, and who knows but many
people may be better pleased and more edified
than with some heavy article from the pen of a 
great writer.  We want variety, and origin-
ality is always more acceptable than affecta-
tion.
	Should a star refuse to shine because some 
other more brilliant casts a shadow over it—
it may be even the more lovely?  What if the
sparrow were to decline to sing because the 
robin's song was more admired.  Each one
may shine in his own way, it is not noble to
refuse to do what one has the ability and talent
to perform; but it is very ignoble to discourage
another in any pursuit or profession; we may
advise, if we think one has mistaken his call-
ing, and so be helpful to a friend.
	“Mormonism” is rich in themes for the pro-
duction of literature, and one may find subject
for rhyme, for poetry, for a variety of prose
works, for the drama, and for the most pro-
found writings; and though our home writers
may not be very highly esteemed at present,
and their works not so meritorious, yet those 
who desire to see Utah take an honorable place 
in the nation should encourage the author, and
help sustain literary labor. “Despise not the
day of small things,” when we see the blossom
it is significant of fruit; but the garden of 
literature wants great attention, careful culling,
weeding and pruning.  Our young people
should try to do their literary work well, and
not be offended if they are not successful in 
being recognized at first.
	One grave fault of inexperienced writers is
that they are fearful of revising and correcting
lest they lose the inspiration; they have an 
idea that poets are inspired, and themes
actually given them word for word, and that
any correction would detract from the genuine-
ness of its inspirationality.  The Lord has
given us our intellect—are we to make no use
of it?  Has he to put words in our mouths
[Column 3]
without our ever exerting ourselves. Cer-
tainly not.  He expects us to apply our
minds to gain knowledge and understand-
ing, and seek diligently after wisdom. Such
“a poem was given me,” you will hear one say.
It was certainly expected you would polish it 
then.  As well say the marble cut from the
quarry is the Lord’s work, and we shall mar
it if we attempt to shape or polish it.  I
would advise the young author to do his work
well, to review and revise, and let his friends
judge, and even then not be disappointed if
the publishers should return it to him.  Do
not feel that you can never write again because
your first manuscript was rejected; many of 
those who are now the best writers of the day
have had this experience.  Sing your song, it
will cheer and elevate yourself if no other,
and some poor lone one may listen and be
comforted thereby.  If you are not capable of
reaching the highest notes, make as much
melody as possible on the lower ones, and
leave the higher for more cultivated or daring
songsters; but be sure and sing; your heart
will be expanded by the notes you strike, and 
others may hear and be gladdened.
	The humble daisy blossoming by the way-
side cheers the weary traveler, and has as
many admirers as the gayest flower that
blooms in the garden; so it often is with the
homely writer, he blesses the lowly and the
humble; they comprehend and appreciate him;
his simple language is music to them and they
laugh at the critics, who deem his efforts a 
failure.  I rejoice to see progress in this direction
and I feel sure there might be much more were
some encouragement held out to stimulate young
writers.  If those who have means and influ-
ence would become patrons of literature, and 
draw out some of the talent that at present is
buried in obscurity, the community might be 
enriched, for there must from natural conse-
quences be a mine of wealth in the hearts and
minds of the young people born and reared
amidst these mountain vales. 
