BY-LAW IV.
	The executive committee of the National-


[Column 1]

American Woman Suffrage Association shall
hold one session preceding the opening of each
annual convention in Washington and another
session after the conclusion of such convention;
and the committee having in charge the arrange-
ments for the annual convention shall always
take cognizance of such meetings of the exe-
cutive committee and make provision for them.
BY-LAW V.
	The decisions reached by the executive com-
mittee shall be presented in the form of recom-
mendations at the business sessions of the con-
vention.
BY-LAW VI.
	Every delegate shall be entitled to one vote
on all questions, but only on the election of
officers shall the delegates be entitled to cast
the full vote to which the organizations repre-
sented by them are entitled.
BY-LAW VII.
	The committee on resolutions shall consist
of one person from each State and Territory,
elected by the delegation from the organization
represented.
BY-LAW VIII.
	At the concluding business session of each
annual convention, the president of this Asso-
ciation shall appoint the following committees,
each committee to consist of three persons,viz.:
a committee on credentials, to have in charge
the credentials of delegates to the next annual
convention; a committee on programme, to
arrange the programme for the next annual
meeting; and a congressional committee, to
have in charge the direct congressional work
during the year which shall intervene between
the time of its appointment and the next
annual convention in Washington.
BY-LAW IX.
	The report of the treasurer up to the first of
January preceding the annual Washington
convention shall be read at the first business
session of that body.

	As some persons do not fully understand
about the "chronology" agreed upon for the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, a breif explanation may be desirable.
	At the conference in Washington between
the National committee on union and Miss
Shaw and Miss Blackwell from the American
committee on union, the question came up as
to how the meetings of the united society
should be dated. Each association had a long
record of work behind it. Many members of
both thought that it would be a pity, after
their annual meetings had got up into the
twenties, to sacrifice the prestige of a long
series of meetings behind them, and to call the
next convention the first of a new series. On
the other hand, neither association was quite
willing to date the meetings of the united
society from the birthday of the other associa-
tion. The present writer had thought that a way
out of the difficulty might be found by dating
them from the birthday of the old American
Equal Rights Society, in which the most active
of the suffragists on both sides had worked
together for several years before the split took
place and the National and American W. S.
A.'s were formed. She thought that this
would be true in the spirit if not in the letter,
A majority of the National committee, how-
ever, were not satisfied with this plan. Miss
Anthony then stated that the two associations
had been formed in the same year and had
held the same number of conventions; the
only difference was in their method of count-
ing, the National having called its second con-
vention its second annual meeting, while the
Americans called its second convention its
first annual meeting, i. e., its first anniversary.
As both associations had been formed in the

[Column 2]

same year, she thought it would not be an in-
justice to either to reckon the date of the
united society from that year, and to call the
next meeting the twenty-second. The present
writer had been under the impression that the
American was one convention behind the
National. She said that if the number of
meetings held had been the same, and the only
difference was in the way of counting them,
she thought it would do to call the next con-
vention the twenty-second, provided it were
clearly understood that was not done merely
because the National was twenty-two years old,
but because they both were. It was readily
agreed that this should be distinctly under-
stood; and on this basis the matter rested.
	Some members of each association object to
calling the next convention anything but the first,
on the ground that it is not true. Of course, in
strict technical accuracy, the meeting to be held
in Washington next January will be neither
the twenty second convention of the National,
nor the twenty-first anniversary of the Ameri-
can, but the first meeting of a new society
composed of the two. But, in the present
writer’s opinion, to call it the twenty-second is
sufficiently true in the spirit, if not in the
letter; and the point in any case is one of
minor importance.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
		Sec'y Am. Committee on Union.
The Woman's Journal, Boston, March 2, 1889.


