MARICOPA STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of this Stake, was
held in the M. I. Hall, December 20th, 1888.
E. G. MacDonald, presiding.
	After singing, and prayer by Counselor
Sarah E. Russell, the roll was called, and
minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President MacDonald was pleased with again
having the privilege of meeting with the sisters
of this Stake, in conference. Thought this was
the last time she should have the opportunity
for some time at least. Wished their faith
and prayers, that we might have a joyful time
together, and all be benefitted.
	Reports were then called for from the
different branches, which were responded to
by President M. A. Hakes, of Zenos; Presi-
dent Lizzie MacDonald, Lehi; President Ann
Klimman, Almy; and President Susan Savage,
Papago branch. Their reports showed decided
improvement in the faithfulness of the mem-
bers, which was very gratifying and encourage-
ing to all those who have the welfare of Zion
at heart. The speakers being earnest and
spirited in the testimonies borne.
	President MacDonald was well pleased with
the reports, bore testimony to their truthful-
ness. As she had visited the various branches
since our last conference and found a good
spirit prevailing wherever she went. Spoke of
the important position which teachers held
in the society. They should have the spirit of
prayer in their hearts continually, that they
might know and understand the hearts of
those they visited, that they might be enabled
to impart such instruction as would be need-
ful and beneficial. The president and coun-
selors should meet with them and instruct
them, and encourage them in their duties.
	Sister MacDonald then said she would re-
sign her position as president, as she expected
to leave in a few days and join her husband in
Mexico. Spoke feelingly of the pleasant asso-
ciations she had formed with the sisters of this
Stake, should always remember it with plea-
sure; prayed that the spirit of inspiration
might rest upon all who desired to do right.
	President C. I. Robson, then followed with
a very interesting and instructive discourse,
showing the necessity for these organizations,
and clearly defining the duties of the mem-
bers; spoke concerning the teaching of our
children, said impressions are easily made
upon the minds of the young. We should
teach them to pray, prayer is the safeguard
against evil thoughts and desires; the officers
were set as watchmen upon the towers of Zion.
We should do away with hard feelings to-
wards each other, and learn to forgive, as we
would be forgiven. Expressed regret at
President MacDonald having to leave us, and 
appreciatively of her labors among us here,
and the difficulty of selecting a suitable per-
son to fill her place, and the wisdom needed to
direct and lead for the best good of all; and
mentioned that a vote of thanks be extended
to Sister MacDonald for the faithful discharge
of her duties and labors in our midst, the
motion was seconded, and carried unanimously.
	Counselors Russell and Morris each made
appropriate remarks.
	Counselors Henry Rogers, Charles Allen,
A. I. Stewart, made encouraging remarks,
which were listened to with great interest
	Sisters Everett, Allen and Biggs, also bore

[Column 2]

tesimony to the truth of this latter day work,
and expressed their desire to live up to their
privileges.
	Sister MacDonald made a few closing re-
marks, exhorting the sisters to faithfulness in
all their duties.
	Closed by singing, "The Spirit of God, like
fire is burning." Dismissed by Chas. I. Robson.
