A VALUABLE BOOK.

	"The Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet," by
George Q. Cannon, is one of the books that
should be in the home of every Latter-day Saint.
Those who were acquainted with Joseph Smith
cannot fail but be impressed with a feeling of ad-
miration for the writer, who has more than forty


[Column 1]

years after his death, the power to call forth so
life like a pen picture of the prophet and his
work, performed many times under the most
difficult and embarrassing circumstances, and
very often of such a nature as would have wholly
discouraged one not under the direct inspiration
of the Almighty. To those who never had the
pleasure of a personal acquaintance with this re-
markably great man, it will be something of a
surprise, as well as a study, to read of his wonder-
ful endowments of character and the loftiness of
purpose, that carried him triumphantly through
such trying ordeals, requiring as it were, super-
human courage and wisdom. Who is there that
has embraced the Gospel revealed in this dispen-
sation, who is not deeply interested in knowing of
the personal and home life of the man chosen
and appointed to bring forth and establish the
Latter-day work?
	This the Author has given in a purity of style
and simplicity of language that cannot fail to be
appreciated by all lovers of good books. A
touching story eloquently told, yet with the con-
sciousness of truth apparent in every paragraph.
	The name of Joseph Smith is so dear to this
people, that, plain as it may seem to be to others,
it stands out as a headlight on the pages of
Church history, and whenever it is uttered it is
always in a voice that bespeaks reverence and
love. The writer well remembers the sweetness
of a voice now long hushed and silent, of one
intimately associated with Joseph Smith in his
life time, and with what a peculiar softness in her
mellifluous tones she always alluded to Presi-
dent Smith as "Joseph the Prophet," and so in-
deed he was, spiritual and prophetic in his nature
yet with those tender loving and emotional
characteristics that some men term womanly.
His love for his mother was mingled with a sub-
lime reverence that made it almost heavenly, and
his passionate love for children was one of the
positive proofs of his divine mission.
	Bro. Cannon has not failed in his delineation
of the life and works of this great prophet, seer
and revelator; and he deserves full credit for his
work as a biographer, but he himself, will no
doubt, acknowledge the grandeur of his theme as
an inspiration to this valuable historical produc-
tion. It is to the youth of Zion that this bi-
ography should appeal with a marvelous force,
inspiring them to take hold of the work com-
menced by the prophet of the last days and
assist in carrying it forward to its final completion
or the signal triumph of truth over error.
	The description the writer gives of the scenes
in Carthage jail are strikingly vivid; and pathetic
in the extreme. And when one remembers the
circumstances attending this period in Nauvoo,
the agony of the Saints when their leaders were
incarcerated in prison, and the horrors of the
day, when the direful tidings were brought home
and spread like wild-fire from house to house, all
the tragedy is renewed in the mind, and only sobs
and a torrent of tears can give relief to the emo-
tions, so susceptible in the hearts of the Latter-
day Saints who were the living witnesses to many
of the startling facts therein set forth. Those
were indeed days of darkness and severe trial.
How the people mourned for Joseph and Hyrum
so cruelly slain, can scarcely be realized by the
present generation. Their experience is altogether
a different one, and they know little of the sorrows
and drivings, the mobbings, or the privations
of the earlier Pilgrim Saints. But sufficient unto
the day is the evil thereof, and the present is
quite another phase of the history of this people.
Yet it is best that the rising generation should
know the difficulties that were encountered by
Joseph and his associates in laying the founda-
tion upon which they are expected to build.
	The book is handsomely bound, the paper is of
a very fine quality, leaves gilt-edged, and the
cover gilt lettered; type clear and large, and the

[Column 2]

outside appearance of the book altogother suitable
to adorn any drawing room table; it contains over
five hundred pages, divided into sixty-six chapters,
besides, the Preface—notes and appendix. The
table of contents is arranged in such a way that
it is easy to find quickly any particular item
wanted, and the author must necessarily feel a
good degree of satisfaction in his literary work.
It will recommend itself when examined and needs
no encomium of praise, beyond such notice as one
must give when perusing its pages carefully. The
price of the book is not high, and in all probability
the first edition will soon be disposed of. Tourists
who express so much curiosity concerning the
rise and progress of the Church would do well to
pnrchase this book, which will furnish them much
important data in regard to a movement which has
created such a furore in the world, and enlighten
their minds on subjects of which many of them
seem to be totally and woefully ignorant. It is a
book that will live in history and surpasses any
work of its kind in the richness, variety and origi-
ality of the subjects treated upon. The life of
the Prophet was crowded with startling episodes
marvelous events and tragic vicissitudes fol-
lowing each other in such rapid succession, that,
in reviewing it one can scarcely take in the whole
situation without re-reading and pondering it in
his mind over and over so much stranger it is than
fiction.


