THE NEW CONSTITUTION.

	The following is the Constitution proposed
for the new National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association. This constitution has been
approved by a majority of the committee on
union, appointed by the American W. S. A.,
and is now submitted to a vote of the members
of the Association, the vote to be taken by
mail, in accordance with the resolution passed
at the last annual meeting of the Association,
held at Cincinnati, O.
	HENRY B. BLACKWELL,
		Cor Sec, A. W. S. A. 
	ARTICLE I. The name of this Association
shall be the National-American Woman Suf-
frage Association.
	ARTICLE II. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure protection in their right
to vote to the women citizens of the United
States by appropriate National and State legis-
lation.
	ARTICLE III. Section 1.—All citizens of
the United States subscribing to this Constitu-
tion and paying not less than one dollar
annually into the treasury of the Association,
shall become members thereof and shall be en-
titled to attend all its meetings, to participate
in all discussions that may arise, and to receive
reports and other documents published by it;
but such membership shall not carry with it
the right to vote.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars
($50) into the treasury of this Association
shall constitute any citizen of the United
States a life member of the Association with
all the privileges belonging to the regular
annual members.
	ARTICLE IV. 	Section 1.—The officers of
this Association shall be a president, a vice-
president at large, a recording secretary, a cor-
responding secretary, a treasurer, a chairman
of the executive committee and two auditors.
The officers named in this section shall be
nominated by an informal ballot at a busi-
ness session of the annual convention of the
Association. The three persons receiving the
highest number of votes for any office, shall
be considered the nominees of the convention
for that office, and the will of the Association
shall be taken for a formal ballot.
	Section 2.—Wherever State and Territorial
associations, auxiliary to the National Ameri-
can Association exist, the presidents of such
associations shall be considered vice-presidents
of the National-American Association, repre-
senting therein their respective States and Ter-
ritories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxil-
iary association shall elect from its members-
ship one person to serve on the executive com-
mittee of their National-American Association.
	Section 4.—The president of the National-
American Woman Suffrage Association shall
appoint a vice president to represent on its
executive board, any State or Territory where
no State or Territorial Association exists auxil-
iary to the National-American Association.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the
preceeding sections of this article shall con-
stitute the committee of this Association: of
these officers, fifteen shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The executive committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause
ten or more honorary vice presidents.
	ARTICLE V. This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote at any annual
meeting, notice of the amendment having
been given at any preceeding annual meeting.

