Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Shoes went higher in October, not in dimensions but in price, the increase being 15% and 20% above previous figures. Beets raised for sugar factores go up 50 cents per ton to the grower next season and the sugar goes up to the consumer. ; The baseball season in the United States closed with the Boston team as world champions, winning over Brooklyn. Mexican matters do not improve, either in the disturbances in Mexico or in the antagonism felt there toward the United States. Wheat and vegetables are up in price, and still goin,g up. The staff of life will be a great necessity ere long, even in these United States. The State Fair this year had rainy weather five days out of seven, so that there is serious thought of holding the fair a week earlier in the season hereafter. Air raids to the number of 500 a day in the European war show the remarkable extent to which "fighting in the clouds" has been developed in the past two years. Deep Creek region, in western Utah, is to have a railroad, construction work already having been commenced southward from Wendover, on the Western Pacific railway. France has annexed a square mile of territory in China, adjoining the French possession there. The new acquisition was French-owned and occupied, so there is no worry over it. Verdun's great battle was suddenly resumed in October, the French regaining considerable ground previously lost. Thus the pendulum of war swings to and fro there, with no decisive result. Workers is a term aptly applied to the girl students at the University of Utah, where, out of 720 young ladies in attendance, 360 are earning their living in whole or in part, while attending school. 
 The Danish West Indies was visited by a fierce hurricane in October, with a damage of $2,000,000 in property, and twothirds of the people in need of food and half of these deprived of shelter. A CORDIAL GREETING was givcn the Utah troops who returned from the Mexican border at the end of October and the troopers; seemed as pleased to be back home as the people were glad to have them here. A German squadron of torpedo-boat destroyers made a daringraid into the English Channel, during the last week in October, and engaged in battle with the British war vessels, losses being about even. The interurban railways centering at Salt Lake City announce an open passenger rate of 2 cents per mile, and a mileagebook rate of 1 cent per mile, on and after December 1. This is the cheapest railway traffic yet known in Utah. The Agricultural department at Washington advocated a more liberal use of potatoes mixed with wheat flour in making bread, and immediately the price of potatoes went up to a figure unheard of before in the history of the country. At Bayonne, New Jersey, a crowd of strikers attacked the firedepartment and demolished a fire engine, during the progress of a fire. To protect the firemen, the police had to shoot into the crowd, several persons being hurt, and one woman killed. At Detroit, Michigan, in October, a street car full of passengers was run into by a switching train, at a crossing, with the result that fourteen passengers were killed and twenty-five hurt. Lack of care by the crews on both sides caused the disaster. An exchange of persons over 45 years of age who have been interned in Germany and Great Britain has been arranged between those two powers. When the transfer is made, these people may not be better fed, but they will feel more at home The Chiropractors want the Lcigislature to recognize them as such by state law. Whether right or wrong, heretofore the regular medical fraternity has opposed any new cult in the healingart, so a contest may be looked for at the next legislative session. Women as speakers in political campaigns have demonstrated in Utah that they are quite as vigorous and intellectual as the CURRENT TOPICS. 707 men, in discussing political questions, and they indulge in much less personal abuse than some of the masculine gender who make public speeches. The Saltair line from Salt Lake City is to be electrified and extended five miles to the Tooele county boundary. Electricity is proving to be cheaper than steam power in actual use, as well as enabling a more conveni-ent service to be given on railways. Submarine activity by which one German submarine sank six vessels ofif the American coast in October has convinced the thinking men of America that the United States is not so isolated after all, in case of a war between this "nation and great European powers. The Austrian premier, Count Karl Streugkh, has been assassinated by a newspaper editor, Friedrich Alder, who disagrees with Austria's war policy. It will not be strange if further assassinations, or attempts thereat, occur in Europe's warring nations. The British and French gains against Germany on the western war front continue slowly, the expenditure in life and munitions being stupendous. From present indications, the war may not be more than half through, with no certainty as to the ultimate result. The Japanese question, so far as the right of the "little brown men" to own land in the United States is concerned, is to be settled bv the United States Supreme Court, on a suit brought in California to confiscate land heretofore purchased and now held by a Japanese resident there. Greece has accepted the terms of the entente allies to let the latter have free reign there against the Teutonic allies. This action by the Greek government has prevented, at least for the present, the establishment of a republic in Greece, under the protecting patronage of Great Britain and France. The strike of milk-producers in New. York finallv was brou,ght to an end by official action compelling the producers and dealers to get together on a basis arranged for them. Tt seems necessary in a case of this kind for an outside controlling factor to enforce settlement for the safetv of the public, because the Parties at issue each develop a selfishness that precludes settlepient by either compromise or arbitration. Christmas Menus By Gertrude McCheyne. RECIPES. Croutons. Butter lightly on each side slices of bread cut one-third Inch thick. Cut into dice and brown in oven. Cheese Canapes. Cut slices of bread into rings; butter lightly,on each side; brown in oven; remove and sprinkle with grated cheese; allow to melt in warming oven. Beet Salad. Cut beets finely; mix with hard boiled eggs and put through the chopper; sprinkle with grated cheese. Fruit Cocktails. (1) Cut pineapple, orange and grapes into small pieces; pour over the fruit a syrup made from the juice of pineapple and orange, to which add enough lemon juice to give an acid flavor. Sprinkle lightly with paprika. (2) Canned pears cut in dice, black grapes or cherries and small pieces of crystallized ginger. DRESSINGS Turkey. (1) 4 c. bread crumbs; % c. suet, chopped finely; 1 tsp. salt; 1 tabsp. parsley, cut finely; 1 tbsp. grated lemon peel; 1 egg. (2) 2 c. soft bread crumbs; % c. melted butter; ^4 tsp. salt; % tsp. pepper; 1 tsp. sage; 1 egg. Duck and Goose. Boil two medium-sized onions until tender; mash and add twothirds cup bread crumb. Season with sage, pepper and salt. Lemon Pie (Southern Recipe). 1sugar; 1 c. water; 1 tsp. butter; boil together and allow to c. cool. 2 egg yolks, beat well. Add 2 tbsp. flour and grated rind of,one lemon. Stir liquid into egg mixture. Make meringue of egg whites. Carrot Pudding. 1 c. bread crumbs; 1 c. carrots; 1 c. raisins or dates; 1 c. suet; 54 c. molasses; 14 c. brown sugar, 2 c. flour; 1 c. milk; 1 tsp. cinnamon; % tsp. allspice; ^^ tsp. salt; 2 tsp. baking powder; 1 c. lemon-citron; 2 eggs. Steam 2 hours. English Plum Pudding. i/a lb. bread crumbs, stale; 1 c. scalded milk;. Soak. ^ lb. sugar; 4 eggs; Yz lb. raisins; % lb. currants, 2 oz. candied peels. Add to milk. 2 oz. creamed suet; 14 grated nutmeg; 1 tsp. allspice; 1^ tsp. salt; 4 egg whites, beat stiff. Add to mixture. Steam 8 hours. SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS. Drawn Butter Sauce. ^ c. butter; 1 tbsp. flour. Melt together. Add J^ c. water; let simmer; 1 tbsp. sugar; flavor as desired just before removing from heat. Orange Sauce. 1 tsbp, butter; 1 tbsp. flour. Cook together. Add 1 c. water and z. tbsp. sugar; 1 tsp. grated rind of orange; 1 tbsp. orange juice. Genealogical Lesson Books. The book of reference which was consulted in the preparation of these lessons is S. Barring-Gould's Story of Family Names, : which can be purchased, after Christmas, at the Deseret Sunday School Union Book Store, or the Deseret News Book Store, for $3.50. We aim to make our lessons sufficiently complete to give necessary information where wards are unable to purchase the book. A new edition is printing in England. Our lessons have not been taken altogether from this book, for we have consulted English history, Charlotte Young's Christian Names, and Bardsley's English Surnames; but Barring-Gould's book is sufficient to furnish all material needed in preparing the lessons, if more information is wished than the lessons themselves supply.