EDITORIAL .   Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 PEACE ON EARTH. Without, the storm blows noisily around my Storm Without home, the windows rattle, fierce cries the Peace Within, wind, and snow piles up over the doorstep. The streets echo with wild storm-whistling, and even the street-car bell bangs more noisily as the car pushes its difficult way through the muffling snow. Cold gusts pierce the casement, and under the sill, flakes of snow are blown to pile up in silent Lilliputian mounds inside the loose door fittings. Before the fire I sit, my feet warmed by the red blaze, my arms encircled with the fire's glow. Sometimes I lift my gaze from the Scriptures lying on my knee, and then both eyes and ears attest that there is storm and blustering cold without. Wrapping mv happy thoughts about me, I rest within my shelter, for I have lived my day of stress and cold, have breasted wind and snow, hnve earned the sheltering peace which now, through mine own choice, and by God's will, I here enjoy. Below, storms whistle, ; winds, for I have built a sheltering wall of peace in which to rest and sleep. This is peace, the peace of solitude and night. Outside, men are rushing, women pushing. Confusion children running to and from, while noise and Reigns confusion crowd the highways and byways Supreme. of life. Bells jingle out of tune, machines ? shriek as they fly buzzing through the air, EDITORIAL. 711 shrill steam-exhaust calls to shriller auto-siren. Down the still country lane honks whizzing motor-cycles clashing and clamor; ing interurban cars rip the country silences, and all the dells are fdled with filming crowds. Boats fly, cars flash, and air-planes loop heaven's blue. Into my canyon I go, so far away and above men's haunts that still nature is there to wrap my soul in peace. I walk alone amid the columbines, while only clouds and butterflies have motion in the silence. Ah, this is peace. The peace of isolation. I know that men are hurrying and women struggling down there ? I, too, have toiled and rushed. Now I close the canyon door on all the world's confusion, and sit down on the mountain side with peace for my companion. Armies are marching, women are crying, God Will Give little orphaned children are hungry just for Us Peace. bread. The world is circled with a bleeding corslet, and men are killed as engines of destruction multiply. Miles and miles of living hillocks kill and maim the human insects crawling there. Hospitals vomit out great daily crowds of useless living wrecks, while yawning graves ? hold multitudes of nameless men. Worse ten thousand times ? worse babies are hourly born into spiritual blindness women; diseased by untaught, unchaste husbands and fathers; youths and maidens growing up into the dim, shadowy recesses of outworn creeds, spirits cramped, bodies warped and hearts passion-stifled for lack of the pure teachings of Christ. Yet, into the solitude of quiet Christmas thoughts I steal away and isolate my soul on the mountain-top of peace, while the year goes jangling down the cloisters of the yesterdays. I long, I yearn, I pray for peace? peace when there is so little peace. Yet know I that God is in His world, and if my pulsing hands have urged their daily dole, if my toil has clasped the yesterdays with unselfish, loving service ? ? He will grant me peace at times that I may rest and praiseHis name. ? ? Peace because I love my fellow men because it is ? God's world, and He will order all things well His children are ? ? His own and very dear to Him He knows He sees the con? flicts of great nations and the tears of little babies are alike His ? care? and I well, I gladly serve. And thus comes peace to me while storm and noise and war prevail o'er all the earth yet I ? have peace at times. Just now the Christmas midnight strikes the hour and I hear the" church bells ringing while the angels sing the old, old song first heard on Jewry's hills ? "Peace on earth!" to men of good will Preview of Guide Work for 1916-17. THE BIBLE. The Prophet Nephi tells us that he found it difficult to make the younger generation, who had grown up in the Land of Promise, understand the language of the Plates of Brass, which we now call the Old Testament, because they had not seen and lived am,ong the people for whom these writings were intended, and were not therefore familiar with the habits of thought and customs of life of those people. If, then, Nephi found difficulty, after a single generation, in making the Scriptures clear to those who had not been reared in Palestine, what shall we say of ourselves, who are many (generations removed from that land and those habits and customs described in the Bible? Now, the Society last year studied the principal Relief women of the Hebrew Scriptures. Doubtless, although an effort was made to interpret these characters in terms of modern life, the study proved more or less hard to grasp, principally because the ways of eastern peoples in those days were so different from ours. And so it has been decided this coming year to study the peoples among whom these women lived and worked. This study ought to be both interesting and enlightening. It will cover the geography of the places where the women lived who were discussed last year, the kind of people who lived there at the time, the things they did, their habits of thought, their dress, their customs in society and government, and whatever else will throw light upon the characters themselves whom we know something about already. But all this will be done in a way that will be interesting and readable, not in the manner of the dry-as-dust historian. And in connection with this study, there will be given readings from the Bible, covering the particular periods in which the women lived. These, of course, will not be published in the Magazine, but will be given as references. They will constitute the passages in the Hebrew Scriptures which will illustrate the writings of the various ages in the history of this marvelous race. Thus those who follow this series of lessons will get, first, some pages of great literature secondly, the principal women whose influence was most felt at various times which the passages tell us about, and thirdly, such side-lights as to geography, character, and customs, as will make these pages and these characters stand out clearly before the mind. PREVIEW OF GUIDE WORK. 
 HOW AND WHERE THE WOMEN OF THE BIBLE LIVED. 1. The Garden of Eden. 2. The Abrahamic Age. 3. The days of Isaac and Rebecca. 4. When they sought wives in other ways than ours. 5. The days of woman's power. 6. Gleaning in alien fields. 7. When Israel lived in exile. 8. The period of the Maccabees. 9. The New Testament days. 10. The New Testament days (continued).