How Betty Helped. (Concluded.) Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. "Well, the only thing to do," she confided to herself, "is to keep my eyes open and do what I can," and so the days went by with little perceptible change. And then one morning when Betty entered the kitchen with her customary, "Good morning, Aunt Laura; may I help you with breakfast?" Mrs. Benton had answered: "Well, yes. I guess I will let you fry the eggs and set the table while I go up and see if your uncle is going to work. He has a dreadful cold. Seems as if we didn't sleep a wink all night, he was coughing and tossing about all the time. I feel about sick myself. I do wish Blanche and Nellie were not so hard to get up in the mornings." By the time breakfast was ready, Mr. Benton came down but he looked flushed and tired and kept on coughing. He scarcely touched his breakfast. "You had better not go to work," Mrs. Benton remonstrated, when he arose from the table. "I can't afford to lay off for a little cold. I'll be all right when I get to work." "Well, be careful and don't take any more cold," his wife warned as he left the house. "Dear me. I feel half sick myself," she complained again as she arose from the table. "And I ought to go to the store and get the cloth and start on Nellie's graduating dress." "Aunt Laura," Betty spoke up quickly, "I've been thinking of Nellie's graduating dress for a week and I've thought out a beautiful design. Won't you let Blanche and me make it? We'll hurry and do up the work and go to the store for what we need and start on it this very morning while you go to your room and have a nap." Mrs. Benton was finding it hard to continually repulse her good-natured, persistent niece, and (she admitted the fact less grudgingly than she would have done a month ago), there was no denying that Betty was very capable. "Well, you can try," she said reluctantly after a moment's study. "I'm sure I don't feel like doing anything at it today. But it's got to be inexpensive. We simply can't afford anything at all dear. I'm afraid with your city tastes, Betty, you won't know how to decide on material. Ike Newman is worrying your: 
 uncle about a note and we've simply got to cut down expenses some way. We can't afford more than two or three dollars for the dress, trimming and all." Betty was delighted with this unexpected revelation of her aunt's consciousness, and answered with a bright smile "I've already decided on the material. Aunt Laura, and the dress won't cost more than a couple of dollars at the very most." Her aunt regarded her skeptically. "Well, of course we don't want it to look too cheap," she conditioned. "Of course we don't. Only let us try and I'm sure you'll be satisfied," Betty urged, as she began clearing away the table things. Mrs. Benton gave a reluctant consent as she started to her room. "Blanche, do you wear that white swiss dress that hangs away back in your closet?" Betty asked eagerly. Her cousin laughed. "Can you see me in puffed sleeves and flounced skirts? That's been worn out an age. It has a hole as big as your head in the middle of the back gore." "I know, but it is beautiful material and will make Nellie the loveliest graduating dress! You and I are going to make it and surprise her and your mother. All we'll need to buy is some ribbon for a girdle and some embroidery floss. I've thought out the — dearest style a little loose eton jacket effect and a double skirt. Mother made me one two summers ago out of an old dress Aunt Hilda sent." Blanche stared for a moment, then she gave her cousin an impulsive squeeze. "You're a dear, Betty. I wonder if you can't help me make over a lot of my old duds. I'm sick for a new dress for June conference, but really I'm ashamed to ask Dad for it. He seems so worried over things just now. Aren't debts horrid things?" Betty grasped this opportunity. "Of course they're horrid. The thing for you and Nellie and Bobby and all of you to do is to help your father get rid of those debts." "But how can we help? Nellie and Bob are in school and mother needs me. I don't know where I could get work anyway. There isn't much a girl can do in M to help pay off a debt," "There's a whole lot a girl can do in M or in any other place, for she doesn't need to step out of her own home to begin. Haven't you ever thought how true the old saying is that 'A dollar saved is a dollar earned?' " And so the conversation continued as the two girls washed dishes and swept and dusted. By the time they were ready to go up to inspect the old swiss dress, Betty knew she had won a strong ally for her cause and HOW BETTY HELPED. 697 she depended on Blanche to do for her mother what she herself could not accomplish. She did not know that fate was going to take a hand in the game. At noon Mr. Benton telephoned that he was not coming home for dinner. Betty knew her aunt was worried as well as she herself was. When he came home at night, there was no denying that he was a very sick man. They got him to bed and applied simple remedies, but by nine o'clock his fever was so high and his breathing so difficult that they sent for the elders and the village doctor. Doctor Stanton looked very grave as he examined the patient. "I'm afraid," he told them later down in the hall, "that he has typhoid pneumonia." Mrs. Benton almost collapsed and the girls became hysterical. Never had Dad been sick before. They could think of nothing but the worst. The doctor continued, "I think we'll be able to pull him through all right. He has a strong constitution, but he evidently has been under a strain for some time and his vitality is low just now." "We'll have to have a trained nurse," wailed Mrs. Benton. "I never could take proper care of him with the house and all to think about." "Aunt Laura, there is no need of that. You can follow the doctor's directions just as well as a trained nurse, can't she. Doctor Stanton? And as for the house, please leave that to me. I'd so love to do something in return for yours and Uncle Rob's kindness to me." "You're a good girl, Betty," was her unexpected reward. "And if the doctor thinks I— could do the nursing— right— I'd like to do all I can." "I always did believe a man's best nurse is his wife," the doctor replied. For two long weeks Robert Benton lay struggling between life and death. They were terrible weeks to the woman watching over his bedside. During the torturing hours when she sat listening to his delirium she saw herself and her husband as she had never seen either before. Rob had always been so kind, so uncomplaining and quiet she had never dreamed how he had chafed under his inability to rise more rapidly in the world how; he had grieved over not being able to provide better for his family. She thought of the many times she must have hurt him to the quick. She saw her own inefficiency now, and realized how much better he had done his part than she had done hers. As the terrible days dragged on her whole being centered in a prayer that he might be spared so she could make amends. She could see so many ways where she could save; so many ways where she could make life easier for Rob. —: 
 And down stairs the routine of the house went on smoothly in Betty's trained grasp. She had long-, serious talks with her cousins in which she gave them of the knowledge she and her mother had sacrificed for her to gain. She enthused B.ob over a kitchen garden and a small poultry industry. She sent to the college for bulletins and helped him make his plans. She taught Blanche how to make their last summer hats over, and helped Nellie make a lot of fancy candy to sell at a bazaar the Bee-Hive Girls were getting up. But more than anything else she made them realize (perhaps all the more forcibly because of her own loss) the great worth of the father whom they had grown to consider as primarily the provi 'er of their needs. She led them to feel that the home was an institution in which the members of the family were partners and that it was the duty of each to share in the responsibilities. And then one day, when the danger was past and the sick man was slowly convalescing, Mrs. Benton came down stairs with a paper and pencil in her hands. "Go up and sit with father awhile," she said to Blanche. "I want to talk with Betty." When they were alone there was a moment of embarrassed silence, then Mrs. Benton looked straight into the eyes of her niece. "Betty, I see now what a blind, selfish, extravagant woman I've been, just as plainly as you must have seen it two months ago, and as plain as your uncle, bless his generous heart, must have been seeing it for years. Our Heavenly Father has been good enough to spare him to us and now I want to make amends." Her voice choked and she wiped her eyes. "I've been going over the accounts you have kept while your uncle has been sick and I'm really astonished at the way I must have been wasting and didn't know it. I want you to help me, dear. Here is a budget system I've been figuring out. See what you think of it." Betty took the figure-covered sheet, and her aunt went on earnestly "If WiC can live within that budget for three years (and I don't see why we can't) we'll be able to pay Ike Newman every cent we owe him and our home will be our own." CONSISTENCY. "Look, mother," said little Bobby, proudly exhibiting a hatful of marbles, "I won all these from Willie Smith." "Why Bobby," exclaimed his mother, "don't you know it's wicked to play marbles for keeps? Go right over to Willie's house and give him back every one of his marbles." "Yes, mother," said the boy, obediently. "And shall I take that vase you won at Mrs. Smith's whist party and give it back to her?" Boston Post, The Spirit of the Gift. By Gertrude McCheyne. Since the days when the Wise men brought gifts and laid, them at the feet of the newly born babe in Bethlehem, in whatever part of the world his name is known, this birthday that was to make possible the joy of the Easter resurrection day is celebrated. The giving of the Christmas gift, whether in the form of an act of service, or material substance, or only in the form of a spoken greeting, when given in the spirit of peace and good will, is one of the most beautiful customs, and one that we would never wish to see cease. Given in the name of the Prince of Peace such gifts are the means of healing the wounds of bereavement, afford the opportunity for uniting friends severed by misunderstanding, while communities in a state of civil war over some issues have been unable to withstand the peal of the Christmas bells, and have exchanged greetings with their neighbors. But there are certain characteristics that should belong to the Christmas gift. It must be a free will oft'ering, given because) the giver wants to give. Any suggestion of the commercial exchange destroys its meaning. Imagine anyone thinking over the names of former donors and the probable worth of their gifts so as to be sure to return one of similar value this season!A plan followed by a friend of mine is a good one. Except in the case of near relatives or an inner circle of friends, she sends her gifts to different people each year and even in the; cases of those nearest to her, she varies her gifts, knowing that so great is our love for her that a Christmas letter is valued most of all. Then, too, the gift, to carry out the thought of the day, must be unselfish. You have doubtless read the story of the wife who each year made her husband a present of something that she herself especially desired, and he would accept it with a. joking remark, until once she gave him a lady's riding saddle and whip when he retaliated by giving her a shaving set. The gift must show that the giver had an intuitive sense of the tastes and surroundings of the person who will receive it. You remember in "Rebecca of Sunny Brook Farm" how out of the love of her heart she bought out of the first money she ever earned a banquet lamp for a little comrade's family, who rarely had a real meal, let alone a banquet. We see gifts of shoddy china, cheap ornaments, nick-nacks that are only dust harborers. when a card, a handkerchief, or 
 evicn a line of remembrance would have shown the spirit of the day better. Our Christmas gifts need not be costly, and when they show the stamp of individual work they are all the more desirable. But they should not be burdensome in the making-. The woman who sito up the greater part of each night some weeks prior to Christmas is making a toil of what should be joy. The gift drawer or box is not only a preventive of this, but is also a constant reminder to all the family of the Christmas spirit throughout the year. It gives a better chance too for us to notice what gifts would give most pleasure. A summer call on a friend reveals the lack of holders for her flowers, her desire for a certain book is learned during a conversation, or perhaps a meal at another friend's house reveals the value to her of a set of table mats. They are listed in the gift book and are sometimes picked up during a vacation trip, or the mats are one of the many pieces of needlework raised to the dignity of "a reason for being made" instead of just to pass the time. Who knows but that the gift box may go even farther in its influence. If a dozen women meet together for an afternoon of fancy work, would it be quite as easy to start a bit of gossip about an absent friend if one or more of the crowd were working on a Christmas gift for her? I think not. Gifts should have a touch of originality. There are few housekeepers but would like to receive some of the inexpensive "nifties" for the kitchen. Spatulas, measuring cups, wire &gg boilers, dish drainers and others, none of which cost over fifty cents, but which are worth many times more to the user. We may give seeds from much admired home grown plants, an assortment of colored twines and wrapping paper, outfits of buttons, tape and needles to the busy mother of many, some canned fruit, preserve or confection for which a housewife is famous, and above all the trip in kodak pictures mounted and written up, for the "shut ins" gift. These and many others cost the giver little else than time and thought. But no matter whether the gifts be purchased or home made, it is the manner of its "putting up" that gives the charming touch to the simplest article. This is something that cannot be hurried. Woe betide the one who leaves the packing of her Christmas gifts to the night on which the tree has to be decorated, for they will lack both daintiness and finish. In its wrapping of snowy paper, tied with the Christmas color or perchance some shade that is especially suggestive of the recipient's taste, with perhaps a spray of holly or the California Christmas berry, or maybe a bit of heather, speaking to the hearts of those from across the sea of — fragrant moors and other days before ever we open it the gift tells of the giver's love and good will. THE SPIRIT OF THE GIFT. 701 But when all the joy of giving and receiving is over, there remains something of which some grow careless in these days of — rush ^the line or word of thanks and aconwledgment. The receiving and sending of these are a part of the gifts. The omission is rarely due to deliberate neglect, but sometimes we let the days slip by till memory is rudely jogged by a courteous note from our friend asking whether the gift ever reached its destination. Sometimes in the confusion of unpacking, cards become misplaced or lost. It is wise to lightly retie each gift in its wrapper or to make a list at once and then at the earliest possible moment, provided with small note paper and cards, send the gracious acceptance of each gift. This article would be incomplete without a word as to children's gifts. There is probably no place where so many mistakes are made. The grace of giving should be a part of every child's education. It is demoralizing for an elder to buy something manifestly beyond the child's pocket book, for him to give. The weekly allowance or payment for some work with the understanding that the gifts are to be purchased with his own money, is a liberal training in economics. A child should never be forced to give where his heart does not prompt him to do so. As to what we shall give children, one might say that we cannot go far wrong if we make not only Christmas but every occasion an excuse for the giving of books. To these might be added book shelves, book markers, paper cutters. Too many cheap toys are a waste of money. A few well chosen and especially if they have educational value, will be found to hold the interest of even a young child. It is a good plan after the Christmas toys have all been tested, to put away some of them and bring them out some rainy day when they will have a fresh interest. Toys that stimulate endeavor are valuable. Lessons in purchasing would result from a toy grocery store with scales. Dolls with their ready-made wardrobes do not hold the same interest as the same doll with pieces of material, patterns and sewing outfit would. The latter afifords a never-failing source of pleasure and a tax on the ingenuity of the little mother. And so as the gift season is again with us may the spirit of the gift be in us that each gift we give may hold the significance of the Herald angels' song "Glory to God in the Highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." : : Perfect Guidance of Children. TRUTH-TELLING AND THE PROBLEM OF CHILDREN'S LIES. By Lucy Wright Snow. There is no parental virtue so completely reflected in a child as truth-telling. Therefore, the problem of