Reception at the McCune Home. By Susa Young Gates. recepThe General Board of the Relief Society tendered a their visiting delegates and tion on the evening of October 4, to the home of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune, 200 North friends at Main street. The guests of honor were the members of the first Patriarchy, Presidency the Quorum of the Twelve, the Presiding committee on and the Presiding Bishopric, with their wives. The STATUES IN DRAWING ROOM. reception were:Elizabeth C. McCune, Emma A. Empey, Susa Hyde. Young Gates, Amy B. Lyman, Janette A. The committe who were in charge of the home to receive the various rooms were: Mrs. ?nd explain the works of art in Young Gates, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Amy Brown Su<:a Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Lyman and Miss Sarah Eddington. the receiving the guests and tickLyman had charge of hall, with name and place of residence. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was assisted by Professor Howard K Driggs Elder and Miss Beth BradTacob F. Gates, Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, The reception-room was in charge of Mrs Elizabeth C Crismon; the drawing-room, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde and 
 VESTIBULE. Mrs. Emily S. Richards the sitting-room, Mrs. Elizabeth C: Wilcox; and daughter, Mrs. Mona Wilcox Cannon; the dining-room, Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie and Mrs. Josephine Beatie Burton; the relic-room, Professor Levi Edgar Young, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Mrs. Lottie P. Baxter the guest chambers, Mrs. Elise; B. Alder; Mrs. McCune's room by Mrs. Amanda C. Bagley, Mr. McCune's room, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth. The hostess had charge of the booths which had entered the vestibule they passed into the reception room, then into the drawing room to shake hands with the Presidency, the Presiding Patriarch, and President Emmeline B. Wells with her Counselors Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams and Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. Rebecca C. Nibley, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, and other members of the General Board who were in the receiving line to shake hands with the guests. The hostess herself had charge of the booths which had been prepared in the ball-room on the upper floor, she herself dressed as an old Spanish "chola" woman, looking her part to perfection, and speaking the Spanish language fluently. She was indeed the center of attraction the whole evening and created a gale of merriment for the crowds that surrounded her booth. Many of her loving friends decided that she had missed her vocation. She should have been an actress, as indeed she was, in the RECEPTION AT THE M'CUNE HOME. 679 pioneer days. Her ready wit and good-natured sallies created no end of fun during the whole evening. Miss Sarah McLelland was in charge of the refreshments which were served in the various booths in the ball-room. There was the Hawaiian booth in charge of the Misses Emily and Edith Smith, assisted by Mr. Wesley E. Smith, and Mr. Gordon Hyde. The United States booth was in charge of Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, her beautiful daughter Mary dressed as the goddess of Liberty, and Mr. B. S. Young who was a circus as Uncle Sam, while his daughter Dorothy was a dream of beauty as Pocoh.ontas, an Indian maiden. In the Spanish booth Mrs. McCune as a "chola-woman" was assisted by her daughters, Mrs. Fay McCune Naylor, as a Spanish maiden, with Misses Betty and Beth McCune as Spanish girls they were pictures of beauty. ; The Japanese booth in the tower window was in charge of Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas with her son Mr. Elbert Thomas, and his wife and two children who were screams in genuine Japanese costumes. Great crowds stood for hours in front of this booth, enjoying these little Japanese babies in their quaint dress and their quainter ways. The crowds moved about freely from room to room and from floor to floor, enjoying one of the rarest and most delightful evenings ever spent by our great Relief Society. It was an education in itself to visit the marvelously beautiful MAIN HALL. : 
 home of Mrs. A. W. McCune. Added to that treat in itself, was the shaking hands with the leaders of the Church and of the Relief Society, the mingling together in social converse and the hilarious visit to the various booths, in the ball-room, which supplied all with amusement, charm and substantial refreshments. One more perfect entertainment was added to the list of excellent offerings, participated in by our Society. Agreat many people have asked for some descriptive picture of this wonderful home opened occasionally yet unostentatiously to friends. We solicited the help of the architect, Mr. C. S. Dallas ONE OF THE GUEST CHAMBERS. and he has furnished us with a number of items and details descriptive of this place. He says "The home of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune is not a bungalow in the sense of the term used today. It derived its name from a desire to compliment Mr. McCune, as a bungalow was his birthplace, he being a native of India, and the bungalow being the typical home of that country. In order to intelligently describe the house it will be necessary to say a few words about it owners. Both Mr. and Mrs. McCune are persons of innate refinement, highly developed artistic tastes, definite ideas and strong personal preferences. In discussing the plans for the RECEPTION AT THE McCUNE HOME. 
 was told that simplicity must be the keynote of the whole lioiise, I design comfort and convenience must not be sacrificed, while; vast display, extravagant pretentions, stately or gorgeous effects were not to be tolerated. They wanted a home that they could live in and enjoy. The fire places must be deep and cozy as the center of life in the winter season the verandas broad and capa; cious so that the family could enjoy out door life in the summer season. 'We want our home,' said they, 'to be in harmony with ourselves and our method of living.' "With these considerations the place was considered as a whole: the approaches, the driveway, terraces, lawn, flower garden and shrubbery, are closely related parts of the whole scheme. "The house is entered through a heavy pair of bronze gates. On the left of the entrance vestibule is the reception room pass; ing through the vestibule, the main stair hall is entered from which opens the sitting room, dining room, library and drawing rooms. Back of the main hall is the rear hall stairway leading from basement to attic and back of this is the family breakfast room, kitchen, butler's pantry, servants' sitting room and back porch. "The exterior finish is dark red brick with brown stone trimmings and a dark brown tile roof of Holland tiles. The house is located on a corner of the hillside, (two houses being torn down 
 to secure space and depth), which overlooks the whole city and gives a view from the windows which impresses one with panoramic grandeur. Entering from the side door one is ushered into the sitting room which has large casement windows extending to the floor, comfortably furnished for the family daily life. "The main hall is finished in English oak. The wainscotting here is probably the finest piece of work of the kind in the United States. The great fireplace is built of Nubian marble, of a rich, reddish brown, with beautiful markings it extends from ceiling; to floor and a person can stand under the shelf. It is a very interesting piece of work, there being few more beautiful fireplaces in existence. The carvings here, and indeed all over the house, are hand finished. The beautiful hall table with its exquisite covering; the heavy tiled Persian rug and furnishings of this hall, and the one above it, are beautiful and artistic in the extreme. There is an old English clock with the calendar months upon its face which peals out the hours and half hours with a cathedral chime and tune. "The vestibule itself is finished in old English oak with beamed ceilings. The decoration, finishings and furniture are works of art. Half way up the stairway is a balcony overhanging the stairs which recalls the picture of Romeo and Juliet. This balcony is a part of a small music alcove the ceiling over the; MRS. AI CUNES CHAMBER. RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 683 main stairs is composed of deep oak panelling filled with beautiful art glass which is artifically lighted for night use. Under this balcony is another alcove with seats and rug. "The dining-room is English Renaissance in design, the woodwork being of old mahogany and the ceiling hand painted. It is interesting to know that this particular piece of exquisite still life painting took the artist three months to complete. Indeed, an DINING ROOM. artist spent two years painting the ceilings and panels of this house. The walls above the wainscotting in the dining-room are hung with hand embroidered wool tapestry so fine in texture, so lovely in design that one fancies it is painting. The floor of the dining-room is covered with a large rug in shades of red and brown, with color and design to harmonize with the rest of the room. The prototype of this room is the famous old English banqueting room of Haddon Hall. It is by far the richest room in art treasures in the house, (if we except the statuary in the drawing-room), and together with its furnishings would make a complete subject for a magazine article. The breakfast-room which opens into the dining-room connects each to the other with broad sliding doors. It is a small room, octagonal in shape, located between the dining-room and the butler's pantry with a small conservatory on the east. The fireplace in this room is of Irish marble in one corner with cab
 inets for silver, china and glass in the other corners. It is finished in mahogany, the same as the dining-room. The furniture and finish in Chippendale. It is such a room as Wm. Morris might well have designed. On a winter's morning the glow of the fire and the sun's checkered light across the floor reminds one that spring is not forever gone. The little unconventional conservatory is filled with flowers, gold-fish and birds. "The drawing-room belongs to no school of design, yet with its style and furnishings suggests the French palaces of Louis XIV. Although avoiding stately and gorgeous effects the room is a marvel of beauty. The long windows, draped with priceless hangings; the exquisite furniture of hand embroidered tapestry, made in France; the little tables, the cabinets filled with rare and curious costly objects; the rose satin brocaded walls with exquisite panels of Watteau paintings set over the doorways; the white satin-grained mahogany, the rarest wood on earth and found only in South America, and which composes the wood work the broad; mirror which covers half the wall space on one side and which was imported from Germany in cars specially built for it; the chandeliers of harmonious design and cut glass fittings —these form the background for the fitting works of art which claim the eye of the beholder. The lifesize statue of Cleopatra is said to be one of the finest portrayals of the ancient Queen in existence. The little statue of the baby with its upstretched arms and impatient fingers and wiggling toes is a darling crystallized in STATUE OF BABY marble, while the other lifeIN DRAWING ROOM. size statue of Nydia, the blind girl, has also a story. Back of the drawing-room is the Library. "The small reception-room which opens from the drawingroom is octagonal in plan and finished in San Domingo mahogany. The walls are hung with green moire silk. The ceiling is composed of eight panels each having four figures in relief representing the seasons, done by a great artist, in the center of which is a beautiful electric fixture set in a hemispherical dome. RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 
 Above the large window seat is one of the most beautiful and costly art glass windows in the west. In one corner is the fireplace and on the mantel and in the cabinets are rare treasures from South American palaces and churches. The design of wreath and bow-knot carved in the finishings and furnishings of this room extends from floor to ceiling and from window to cushion on the couch. This room is a modified empire in design and is the gem of the whole house. "On the second floor is the central hall sitting-room with a wondrously carved Flemish screen dividing it from the main stairway. Leading from this hall is the curio room which is a prototype of an old English hall with open timbered roof and large open fireplace, forming an ingle nook. The finishing and furniture is old oak the walls are covered with painting of a; smoky tan color. More favorable comments from artists have been made on this room than any other. Here is found the wondrous and curious collection made by this remarkable host and hostess who have traveled the world over. The boa constrictor's skin and mammoth grizzly bear skin rug, the largest one known anywhere, ancient Madonna pictures, huacas from South American ruins, shells from the oceans, jewels from the Orient — all these and many more crowd this treasure trove. The most unique thing in the collection is a pair of heavy ebony-wood stirrups, 
 embellished with tarnished-hammered silver which belonged to Pizarro or one of his band, and came from ancient Peruvian collections. "The chambers are dreams of beauty. The principal one belonging to Mrs. McCune is furnished in a white enamel and is pink brocade and white lace in its finishings and furnishings. "Mr. McCune's room is oval in plan and was designed as much for a den as for a chamber of rest. It has a large fireplace of Utah onyx while the finish of the room is of specially selected CURIO ROOM. red mahogany. The three concave doors of this room are cut from one log and there is a story to them also. Each door is one solid piece with hand carved panels. The walls are hung in golden green Russian leather, set with old brass nails. The ceiling is beamed with a large mahogany cornice running around the entire room. "There are six other private and guest rooms on this floor and it would be difficult to decide which is of the greater merit. The two guest rooms with their private bath are exquisite in design and finish. "The bath room which connects the two chambers on one side have the floor, walls and ceiling of pure white Carrara marble from which marble, of course, the Italian sculptors moulded their RECEPTION AT THE MCCUNE HOME. 687 statuary. The texture between this and ordinary marble is as the difference between calico and velvet. The large mirror fills one side of the bath room and reflects the fireplace opposite. It contains a recess needle bath, arranged for a spray, vapor and shower bath. The broad band around the mirror is of glass mosaics. "Going up to the ball-room one enters at once into the vision of fairyland. There are four great alcoves, while the mirrored walls on every side reflect vistas innumerable. The artificial marble called scagliola, which forms most of the furnishings of this ball-room required the importation of a German from his fatherland, and he was eight months in making this, at that time, practically unknown composition. "Leading from the ball-room is the banquet-room. This is a modified copy of a famous hall in an old English manor house. Finished in mahogany with beamed ceiling, the frieze extending from the top of the wainscotting is the most remarkable work. It portrays the hunting scenes, woodlands and haunts of Robin Hood and Rob Roy. "In conclusion I might suggest that nearly all the art journals of Europe and America have contained able and complimentary criticisms of this house. Particularly I might mention the article written by one of the foremost authors of this country in the Architectural Record of July, 1907. I would like to BATH ROOM OF CARRARA MARBLE. ! 
 BANQUET ROOM. say that in all my work in this house I owe the inspiration and success thereof to the quiet tact, masterly handling of detail, and artistic suggestion of Mrs. A. W. McCune. "S. C. Dallas." Our readers may catch a glimpse through these pictures of this beautiful home, but no sketch and no pictures can convey the impression of beauty and harmony, of wide culture and sincere modesty, which animate this dwelling and which is the simple characteristic of the owners thereof. All in all, the world is richer for this assembling of beauty, and for those who possess and for those who enjoy. We congratulate ourselves and our readers on this excellent closing number of the present volume and express our sense of gratitude to readers, contributors, members of the Relief Society and officers, and above all to a gracious Providence who has blessed and guided our destinies through the year now closing. May the year 1917 be crowded with useful labor, opportunities for doing good, and the time, health and determination to be worthy of our blessings, is the holiday wish of this Magazine for all Nearest and Dearest. (A Christmas Story.) By Ruth Moench Bell. "Look over my Christmas list, Richard, and see if you can suggest any changes." With the expression of one on whom a long expected doom had fallen, Richard reached for the list. Then with masculine directness his eye took in the one important item: "Total $100." Christine had hoped he would approach the sum by degrees — and at the finish of a fascinating list of gifts be won over gifts calculated to win enthusiasm even from a male creature. Reached in this way, Christine felt that the $100 would appear a paltry sum for so many entrancing items. "What do you think of them," Christine asked, to divert him from the appalling total. "Could you imagine anything more delightful for your sister Clara than a glass baking dish?" Christine smiled seductively as she pointed to the article for which her heart yearned. "I don't know anything about those things," Richard sighed wearily. Then with simulated interest, "What was it you gave her last year?" he asked. "One of those casserole baking dishes. And the year before I gave her an aluminum baking dish." "Well, wouldn't they be enough of that sort of thing?" "Oh, you see these glass baking dishes are the latest thing." "I see. And the casserole was the latest thing last year. And aluminum was the latest the year before. Of course, it is all very well to have these latest things if one can afford them. But Tom's income is no larger than mine. Why not select something simple? Why not make her something?" "Oh, I have so many things to make, loads and loads of aprons and handkerchiefs and guest towels. And they all have to be trimmed with hand crochet. It will take every minute till Christmas. And it makes me so nervous." "Why do you keep up this silly custom?" "They all give me something. I couldn't refrain from giving in exchange." "I wish I could get hold of the bell-sheep," Richard smiled enigmatically, glancing up at the ceiling. "I don't know what you mean." "The gang leader." 
 "Women don't go in gangs," Christine, prettily indignant, flashed at him. "Well then, the prototype of your particular clique." "I do wish you would talk English, Richard, instead of slang and big words." "My dear, somebody sets the pace. Some woman stronger minded and more original than the rest of you." Up in the air went Christine's nose and chin. But her husband in amused unconcern, appeared not to notice her indignation. In fact he was delighted that his arrow had gone true, straight into the heart of his wife's pride. "Women and men are like sheep. They all trail unconsciously in the wake of the bell-sheep. My word, I wish I could find her and persuade her to lead her band through another gap." "You are delightfully complimentary," Christine snipped off, "I always flattered myself that I was the leader of our crowd." "So did I, my dear, so did I," her husband agreed. "Then why don't you lead them where there is better picking. The husbands of this band are barren waste, picked over stubble, shad scale, grease wood, buck brush." Richard's voice trailed off into a fit of laughter. "I think you are just as disgusting as you can be," Christine tried hard not to laugh at her husband's absurd simile. "Besides your figure is an exceedingly faulty one. You surely are not suggesting that the band pick Jacob Morse's pockets in search of clover and wild peas or whatever fodder millionaire sheep seem to prefer." Richard rocked with mirth over his wife's clever pursuit of his ridiculous comparison. And Christine, to conceal her merriment, flounced out of the house to visit with Richard's grandma. "Richard has accused me of not being the bell-sheep. And he has appraised himself as very poor picking," Christine laughed as she sank into grandma's easy chair. "And all that after contemplating, unmoved, this list of adorable trifles for Christmas gifts. Do you see anything extravagant there, grandma?" "Not a thing. Not a blessed thing," grandma smiled shrewdly. "Jacob Morse would scarcely notice an insignificant sum like that." Jacob Morse was the one millionaire of the town. And as his wealth was the result of extortionate prices on an indispensable commodity, his name was an unsavory morsel in the mouth of every one. "By the way, did I ever show you my rubbish heap in the attic?" grandma mused. "Never," Christine cried, "and I have been pining to see all those fascinating, old-fashioned things." Up into the attic with a brace of candle-sticks the twain hied. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 691 "Why, what is this?" Christine asked, holding up a dusty. battered object. Grandma surveyed it with amusement. "That, my dear, she said with a twinkle, "is a joke." "A joke?" Grandma gazed at the object quizzically, and the ripple of amusement that had wreathed her features, gave place to sympathetic concern. "On second thought," she said seriously, "it is a wrinkle producer." "A wrinkle producer?" Christine knew that grandma was addicted to cryptic remarks; but this one was decidedly puzzling. "They used to call them casters," grandma continued. "Every woman had to have one. I gave that one to Janet Wilson. She received two others for that Christmas. One was all that any woman could use; so mine went onto the what-not. And every other day Janet had the dismal task of dusting the vinegar bottle, the oil bottle, the pepper bottle, the salt bottle, the red-pepper bottle, and replacing them in the caster for which I yearned." "If you gave it to Janet, I don't see how it came to be here," Christine asked. "I got it by replevying it. You see Janet had given me something she wanted very much for herself. A print of Rembrandt's portrait of his mother, it was. It did not mean as much to me as it had meant to Janet. And one day after she had endured the sight of it strung up on the wall so close to the ceiling that no one could possibly see the sweet, tender face, she burst out laughing. 'I don't believe you care very much for that print, do you, Mary?' she asked. " 'Not especially,' I confessed. " 'I have always longed to possess it,' she sighed. 'I wanted to enjoy it every day. " 'I guess you feel toward it as I felt toward the caster I gave you.' I "laughed. 'And now you dust the caster, and I never look at the picture." " 'I'll tell you what,' she proposed, 'let's us trade presents.' "And we did," grandma continued. "And what is more, we quit making each other expensive presents. A glass of jam or a piece of extra good fruit cake or some little occasional trifle expressed our good will toward each other quite as well, and lessened the sense of obligation an expensive gift imposes." "That is what happened between Clara and me," Christine laughed. "I gave her a beautiful casserole, last year. She had let it be known that she wanted one. Then Tom gave her one. and Edna gave her one. And she never uses all three. Sometimes I have felt like snatching it off her buffet and running home with it and serving Richard a delicious scallop in it." 
 "Why don't you?" "Oh, I can't. And besides I'd rather have one of those glass baking dishes, now. The one I am getting for Clara. They are so much daintier." "Then the casserole Richard worked so hard to pay for, is already doomed to pass upward to the attic, a lonely, isolated companion for this caster which cost my husband so dearly." "Is that what you meant by calling it a wrinkle-producer?" Christine asked. "That is what I meant," grandma smiled. "Attics are full of wrinkle-producers. If women would visit their attics oftener, many of the things for which they long and for which their husbands strain to pay, would remain unbought, especially when they are to go to some one who knows what she wants better than any one else can guess." "It does look silly," Christine admitted. "But what can a person do? My relatives feel that they must give me something expensive." "Which their husbands cannot afford," grandma supplemented. "What do you suggest?" Christine begged. "Why not take Richard's suggestions and be the bell-sheep Lead the band into pastures of quiet and content." "But how can I go about it?" Christine enquired. "Just tell your friends that you are going to give no presents, hereafter, outside your immediate family. Tell them that you are going to consider the "