GENEALOGY. REPORT FROM THE GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. This year our lessons will take up surnames. The subjects will be subdivided as follows: ? GENEALOGY. September Introduction October Tribal surnames. Sire-names November Scotch and Irish names December Anglo-Saxon names January Scandinavian names in England February Surnames for town and castle March Place names April Trade names May Nick and descriptive names June Prefixes and suffixes We recommend the class teachers to give six primary genealogical lessons at least one week during the winter. These primary lessons should be insisted upon every year until all the people are thoroughly acquainted with the method of preparing genealogical information. Genealogical conventions should be held when stakes can secure the services of a teacher from this Board or from the Genealogical Society of Utah. We also recommend that excursions be arranged to the temples in your districts, if possible, once a month from each ward. Where this is impossible, have your committees take one day a month in some convenient room and invite the people to come with their records and show them how to make out records, and how to secure genealogical information. Instructions on how to arrange excursions were given in our genealogical classes during the late conference. 
 The most important practical work given this year to our Society to do in this line is the invitation extended to us from the Genealogical Society of Utah to assist them in getting out the surname index cards from each family and each individual in the Church. The information required is: The name of the family and where it originated; if work has been done for the family in any temple and where, or if no work has been done at all; where the work was commenced and the name of the heir in the family; the name and address of the person now having charge of the work and the date of getting this card out. You sisters can realize what a wonderful help this will be, in preventing duplication of temple work, in making each family acquainted with all work done by associated surname families, and in making our Genealogical Society a general clearing house for genealogical information. A secondary benefit will be realized in the increased interest which will be shown by every person who prepares this card. The Genealogical Society have printed for us 50,000 cards and will add another 150,000 as soon as we are ready for them. You can realize that if each individual has four lines upon which he may work, it will be necessary to have several hundred thousand of these to represent adult members of the Church. Where there are genealogical representatives they will be invited by the Utah Society to co-operate with us in this work. Always we want to work under the authority of the Priesthood, with their sanction and approval, and thus secure the best possible results. SAMPLE CARD. PREVIEW OF GUIDE WORK. 
 LITERATURE FOR THE HOME. The chief aims of the course are these 1. To help mothers select better books for their homes. 2. To give to them some simple fundamental principles to guide them in their choice of stories and other reading for their children. 3. To cultivate a love of literature that will lead to right reading habits in the home. The home library generally is but a motley collection of books, purchased at random, and suitable mostly for grown-ups. What more beneficial study can be taken up than one that will help us spend our book money more wisely? A home without a good library is like a town without a school. This does not mean that the home must have many books, but it should have a choice selection. Mothers should learn how to choose the book companions of their children. With what stories are your boys and girls feeding their minds? What are you doing to guide their reading habits? Book companions are next to human companions in their influence over the minds of children. Mothers should study what stories to place before their children. So also should they learn what poems and other choice literature to bring into their homes for inspiration and culture. The reading habits of the home, likewise, need attention. Home reading generally consists of a hasty glance through the papers, a running over the magazines to see the pictures, and taste of the jokes or stories they contain, or it is a haphazard browsing among books. There is more mental dissipation than education in the ordinary home-reading. We need to restore the fireside story, to bring the family into closer intellectual companionship through the medium of good books. There should be more voicing of good literature in our homes. In the course that has been planned for the coming year, all of these practical problems will be considered. A series of studies, one for each month, will be taken up. The following suggestive outline will give some idea of the content of the course: Lesson I. Literature as Creative Art. The purpose here is to help parents to know what literature really is, to give them some fundamental principles by which to judge a literary selection. Lesson II. The Author at Work. The aim here is to show how the writer creates literature in ? 
 ? form of verse and prose producing these three chief types the sermon, the song, and the story. Lesson III. The Lyric, or Song. In this study, the mothers will learn what are the characteristics of a choice song, what is a lyric line; how to read lyrics to bring out their beauty; what lyrics to read. Lesson IV. The Children's Poets. This lesson will deal with the development of children's poetry from the days of Mother Goose until now. Poets of earlier times and those of recent days will be compared and enjoyed. Lesson V. Stories True and False. The purpose of this study will be to give parents the main principles by which a story may be judged, to show what marks the artistic story, what stories are really true and worth while. Lesson VI. Old Time Tales. A study of folk lore, the tales that have tumbled down the stream of time and have come to us in form of nursery tales, fairy stories, fables, parables, etc. These different types will be explained and illustrated. Lesson VII. Modern Tales for Children. The aim here is to give parents at least a good introduction to the best story-writers of recent days for children. Lists of choice stories will be offered for consideration. Lesson VIII. Our Country in Song and Story. The choice lyrics and tales that reflect the spirit of our country will be taken up here. A study to inspire true patriotism, we feel, could hardly be planned. HOME ECONOMICS. OUTLINE FOR COURSE IN HOME ECONOMICS, NUTRITION, CARE, AND CLOTHING OF INFANTS AND CHILDREN. 1. Mother's Condition and Diet. 2. Correct Nursing Habits. Bottle Fed Babies. 3. Introduction of Solid Food and Diet During second 4. and third Years. 5. The Child at School Home Diet and School Lunches. 6. General Factors Related to Children's Diet. 7. Care and Clothing of Infants and School Children. 8. The Child's Recreation and Parent's Co-operation. 9. The formation of Correct Habits of Character. 10. The Child's Spiritual Life. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in January. THE GARDEN OF EDEN. (Read carefully, either before or after this article, chapters four, five, and six of the Book of Moses, in the Pearl of Great Price, last edition.) The Garden of Eden was the first home of Mother Eve and the cradle of the race. Of the place itself we do not know as much as we would like to know, but of what went on there and in the neighbourhood we know considerable, thanks to modern revelation. From the first century of our era until very recent times many attempts have been made to locate exactly the Garden of Eden, and doubtless these attempts would still be made but for the fact that few people nowadays, outside the "Mormon" Church, accept the biblical account as describing the real origin of the human family. "Two opinions deserving most attention," says Edersheim, "are those which place Eden either near the northern highlands of Armenia, or else far south in the neighborhood of the Persian Gulf." And the Century Dictionary says "it is generally agreed that the description in Genesis alludes to the Mesopotamian valley." These opinions, of course, are only conjectural, an attempt to find a place somewhere on our globe, usually in the eastern hemisphere, that corresponds with the description in the Book of Genesis. It is told there that "a river went out of Eden to water the garden and from thence it was parted and became four parts." Then the names of these are given. Two of these streams are generally believed to be the Euphrates and the Tigris, and one ingenious writer has identified the other two with two Babylonian canals! And so guesses pile up on one another, till the plain truth in the matter is as hard to find as a boy's hat just before school time. "Mormonism," however, in quarters where it is accepted, has upset the old theories by an explanation that is altogether unique and original. It is, that the Garden of Eden was on the American continent, not in Asia at all. And it bases this information on a revelation of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
 "Adam-ondi-Ahman," says the revelation, given in May, 1838, "at a place called Spring Hill," in Daviess county, Missouri, "because it is the place where Adam shall come to visit his people, or the Ancient of Days shall sit, as spoken of by Daniel the prophet." Another revelation to the Prophet (Doctrine and Covenants, section 107:53) declares that "three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all high priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman and there bestowed upon them his last blessing." This place "is located immediately on the north side of Grand river, in Daviess county, Missouri, about twenty-five miles north of Far West. It is situated on an elevated spot of ground, which renders the place as healthful as any part of the United States, and overlooking the river and the country round about, it is certainly a beautiful location." From the phrase, "the land of Adam-ondi-Ahman," one would infer that the entire country where the Saints had settled in Missouri was either Eden or territory very close to Eden. Aside from these revelations that establish definitely the location of the Garden of Eden, why may not the first home of our racial parents have been in America? It is true that we have always looked upon the cradle of the race as having been in the eastern hemisphere. But that is no reason for believing that it was there. It is equally true that when the race became conscious, so far as we know it from profane records, it found itself in the eastern hemisphere. But Noah's flood, if the biblical explanation be accepted at all, would account for this fact. A few years ago I ran upon an article by a non-"Mormon" in which it was argued that, assuming that the ocean currents were the same then as they are now and counting back from Mount Ararat where the ark alighted, that vessel must have begun its drifting somewhere in the state of Missouri. As for the alleged similarity between any particular part of the eastern hemisphere and the description of Eden in Genesis, that is a mere accident, because, again if the Bible narrative be held to, the surface of the earth has undergone many and great alterations since Adam and Eve dwelt near the Garden, not only in the days of the flood but afterward as well for it would seem from the scriptural account that at the creation the land was in one place and the waters all in one body. We are told in Genesis that "in the days of Peleg the earth was divided." At all events, the Latter-day Saints believe they have sufficient grounds for thinking of America as the cradle of the race, of Missouri as "the place where Adam dwelt." As to the conditions under which life went on for Adam and Eve and their immediate posterity, we are left in utter darkness. GUIDE LESSONS. 719 Almost every question we may ask of that remote past comes echoing back to us as empty as when it left our lips. We are told specifically that after the pair had been expelled from the Garden "Adam began to till the earth and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow," and that "Eve, his wife, did labor with him." And we are informed that later on these two had children, who, when they grew up, divided "two and two in the land," that they tilled the ground and tended their flocks, and that they in turn begat sons and daughters. "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground." But what kind of clothes did they wear? At first, we are told, while the original pair were in the Garden, "they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons." Doubtless after the expulsion they had other clothes ? but what? We are told nothing about the nature, the texture, and the form of them. What kind of vegetables and fruits did they cultivate and eat? With what implements did they turn over the earth's crust? Again, what manner of social enjoyments did they have? When did they form themselves first into societies and what kind were these, barring that secret society of which the Pearl of Great Price tells us? All these and a thousand other questions crowd upon us as we think of our first common parents. But we have few satisfying answers. QUESTIONS. 1. Where is the Garden of Eden generally supposed to have been located? 2. On what ground is that statement of the location based? 3. Where do the Latter-day Saints place the Garden of Eden? 4. On what grounds do they base the belief? 5. What arguments drawn from reason may be urged for the probability of this latter claim? 6. What kind of shelter do you suppose our first parents had? 7. What kinds of food do you imagine they ate? 8. What kind of clothing do you believe they wore after the expulsion? 9. What social enjoyments? 10. What did they know, as compared with us today, do you think? 
 LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in January. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in January. GENEALOGY. SCANDINAVIAN SURNAMES FOUND IN ENGLAND. Few English people are aware of the vast influence of the early Danish conquerors on the nomenclature, or surname history of the English speaking people. Just after the Angles and Saxons had come over to conquer the Britons, the Jutes from Denmark also crossed the North Sea, and for several centuries they were in constant warfare with the mixed tribes of Picts, Scots, Angles, Britons, and Saxons, living in that small but crowded country. The first Teutonic or Saxon kingdom was located in Kent. The Saxons, being hard pressed by the Picts and Scots, invited two Danish brothers, Hengest and Horsa, to come to their assistance. They did so and brought a numerous following, defeating the Picts and Scots and conquering at the same time, the Britons themselves. In A. D. 449 they founded the tiny kingdom of East and West Kent. The following centuries were filled with the wars of the Saxons, Angles, Jutes or Danish people, Picts and Scots and the Welsh tribes. Let us review early English history with particular reference to the doings of the various Danish and Norse victories won in England by these intrepid warriors. The east coast of England was frequently invaded and ravaged by Danes or Norsemen. In 866 Ingvar and Ubba landed their forces in East Anglia and partially conquered that stronghold of the Angles. In 878 King Guthrum overran Essex. He was a powerful warrior and was a worthy foe for the maturing powers of the young King Alfred the Great, who was the noblest and greatest Saxon known to history. He reigned nominally, but the greater part of the government of England was left in Danish hands and consequently the English race became largely infused with Scandinavian blood. Alfred continued on his own victorious way until in the year 925, when he died, all Britain having acknowledged his rule and paid tribute to him. Fifty years after Alfred's death, in 994, Sweyn, King of Denmark, and Olaf, King of Norway, invaded England again and conquered most of the provinces, England paying tribute to Denmark because of the GUIDE LESSONS. 721 weak policy of the English king Ethelred, "the Unready." By 1013 Sweyn was acknowledged King of Denmark and of England, while Ethelred fled to Normandy and thus laid the foundation for the invasion of the Normans into England. Sweyn's son Canute became king of all England at the death of his father, in 1016. He also conquered Sweden and Norway which he affixed to his kingdom. Canute was a great king, filled with wisdom and vigor; but his sons quarreled at his death, in 1035, and thus opened the way for the incoming of William the Conqueror. All of these Danish and Norse conquerors brought with them into England hosts of followers, and their impress upon the English language and English names is, of course, very great. Among the Norsemen, the royal family was that of the Ynglings, deriving from a mythical ancestor, Ingvi. The Saxon and Angle kings all traced back to heroic ancestors, and the Saxon Chronicle is careful to record the pedigrees. The Danish royal family was that of Skjoldungs, descended from an ancestor Skjold. But the royal Danish race of this stock expired in the male line with the extinction of the family of Canute the Great, and the crown passed to the son of an Earl Ulf whom Canute had murdered, and who had married his sister. Thenceforth the Danish royal race was entitled the Ulfungs, or children of Ulf. Ung meaning children or young ones. But among the Northmen there were as well the Bjornings, sons of the Bear; Hundings, sons of a dog; Arnungs, issue of an eagle; Nifflungs, children of the mist. But no member bore the name Bjorning, Skjoldung, Hunding, Arnung, etc., as a surname only the family generally was so designated. It was a tribal name, but it did not adhere as yet to the personal name. A termination expressive of sonship or descent, which was in use among the Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavians, was ing, which means "belonging to." In the pedigree of the West Saxon Kings it is used systematically. Edgar is Edmunding, Edmund is Edwarding, Edward is Alfreding. Alfred is Alfwolding, and so on. But ing was also broadly applied, much as O' in Irish and "the son of" in Scripture, to signify descent from an ancestor more remote than an immediate parent. Moreover, we cannot assure ourselves that all names that end in ing are patronymics, for the surname termination is employed in a variety of ways. In Northumbria and East Anglia the Danes had begun to settle from the seventh or beginning of the eighth century. They were of the same ancestry as the Teutons, and spoke pretty much the same tongue. The Angles came from the modern Schleswig, and the home of the Danes was the island of Zealand, with the hall of the King and the temple of the national god at Leidre. A continual stream of Danes passed into the North of England. 
 The Kings of Leidre demanded, and indeed exacted, scatt, or tribute, from the Northumbrians. At length, in 878, by the peace of Wedmore, the whole of the country north of the Watlingstreet ? the great Roman road that ran straight as an arrow from London to Chester ? was ceded to the Danes. In the Saga of Egill Skallagrimson we are told that the time when he was at Northumbria ? i. e., in the tenth century ? the inhabitants were nearly all Scandinavians on the father's or mother's side, and a very great many on both sides. The place-names in Yorkshire are largely Scandinavian. "By" in Danish was a farm or a town. "Thorp" or "torp" in Danish means a little farm, a field. "Kirk" was the church. Balderby, Thukleby, Grimsthorpe, Ormskirk, Greeta (Griot-a), the stony river, and a thousand others, point to the continuous occupation by the Danes and Northmen. A hundred and sixty-seven places with names ending in "by" have been reckoned in Yorkshire. In the same county are ninety-four ending in "thorpe;" twenty end in "with" i. e., wood; there are numerous "royds," i. e., clearing in the woods. Lincolnshire was also peopled with Danes. The conquest of the whole of England by Knud, or Canute the Great, tended still further to introduce Scandinavian names (personal) into the land, but the grip on it was not sufficiently extended to affect place-names seriously beyond Northumbria and East Anglia. The islands, however, about the coast ? haunts of the Vikings ? mostly received and retained the names given to them by these Scandinavian pirates, as Lundy (Puffin Isle), Ramsey, Mersea, Anglesey, Brithtlingsea (Brithelm's-ey), once all but an island. Iceland was colonized from Norway between the years 872 and 890 by "bonders," or peasants, of ancient pedigree and large possessions, who had hitherto held their land as allodial ground, and King Harald Haarfager (Fairhair) insisted on converting all freeholds into tenures from the crown or feof. Rather than endure this, these men took their movable goods with them, their wives, children, and serfs, and migrated to Iceland, which was then uncolonized, except by a small band of Irish culdees. Happily, we have preserved a Landnamabok, or record of the settlement of the Iceland, with the names and genealogies of all the emigrants, and, what concerns us now, the names they gave to every place where they planted themselves. As the same procedure took place in England when Jutes, Angles, Saxons, Danes, and Northmen came into England and settled there, this Landnamabok is to us very instructive, and helps us to elucidate the place-names over a large portion of England, and through the place-names the surnames derived from these places" (pp. 136-7). We have, in our Utah Genealogical Library, one of the Icelandic pedigrees going back in a direct line to this period. GUIDE LESSONS. 723 "Scandinavian surnames based upon personal designations are more numerous in England, but these come nearly all, if not all, from ancient Northumbria, which included Yorkshire. There the descendants of the old Danish and Norse settlers clung to their ancient nomenclature later than elsewhere ? indeed, till the fashion of adopting surnames prevailed. We have such names still in use in England and America. Bard has become Barth, unless it be a contraction, as is probable, of Bartholomew; Jokull yields Jekil, Halfdan is now Haldane, Sweyn is Swayne, Olafr yields Oliver ? but this comes to us also through Normandy. Ragnar is now Rayner, and this, again, comes in a roundabout fashion through the reign of the Conqueror. Havardo is Howard, Hjorvaro is Harvey, Steinarr we recognize in Stoner, Ketill is Kettle, Grimm is Grymes, Hamund is Hammond, Frioestan is Featherstone, Thorfin is Turpin, Hide is Hyde. But it is in Yorkshire, East Anglia, Durham, and Northumberland, that these are mainly found. Elsewhere, if we trace them, it will usually be found that the families bearing these names have at some time come into other parts of England from the ancient Northumbria or from Lincoln. We have, indeed, elsewhere names that came originally from Norway, but they have somewhat altered their form and transmission through Normandy. These latter names are numerous, for it was with the Conqueror that family nomenclature may be said to have had its beginning in England." (page 13-14.) This interesting sidelight is given by Baring-Gould "Among the primitive Teutonic peoples a man's personal name is regarded as of the highest importance; it not merely belongs to him, but it is to some extent inseparable from him. He who gets hold of a man's secret name acquires a powerful but undefined control over the man himself. So strongly is this felt that the name is kept concealed from enemies; it is never uttered. He is spoken of by a nickname; he is alluded to in an oblique manner. His true name is kept from all but his nearest kin. Just as a savage is afraid of having his portrait taken, lest by this means the artist should obtain control over him, so does he shrink from allowing any person to get hold of his real or secret name." (Page 48.) He who runs may read! Several hundred years before William the Conqueror's time there was written a book called "The Book of Life," or Liber Vitae which is Latin for book of life. It was a catalogue of the people who had donated to the church of Durham, England, and was brought on down to the Reformation in Cromwell's time. Its name was given because the hope was expressed on the title page that the names recorded there would find a place in the Book of Life in which are recorded "those who shall be entitled to eternal salvation." 
 To the Latter-day Saints this sentence is peculiarly significant. The manuscript itself possesses peculiar interest, most of the writing being done in alternate lines of gold and silver in handwriting of peculiar elegance. This probably was done in the 9th century. At first the names of benefactors were written up and down on the pages, but as the centuries rolled on, and space became more and more valuable, names were filled in to all the blank spaces and only by carefully distinguishing the various handwritings can one tell to what period the various names belong. Recently students have tried to discriminate between the Anglo-Saxon, Danish and Norwegian names as found in this Book of Life. QUESTIONS. 1. Who were the Teutons? 2. What can you say of the Danish conquerors of England? 3. What effect did their long residence in England have on English surnames? 4. What is the Danish meaning of "by"? Of "thorp" or "torp"? Of "ing"? Of "with"? Of "royd"? 5. When and how was Iceland settled? 6. What was the Teutonic tradition about secret names? 7. What can you say of the Book of Life? LITERATURE FOR THE HOME. LESSON I. LITERATURE AS CREATIVE ART. Among the ancient tales from the Northland, there is a fanciful story which will help us to understand, more clearly, what literature is. It is said, in this strange old tale, that the gods once had a victory over the frost giants, and to commemorate their triumph, they decided to create a man. Each of the gods was to express his gratitude by endowing this newly-created being with some wondrous gift. When the man was formed, one god gave him a clear mind, another gave him a kindly heart, full of love and sympathy for all of God's creatures; still another added skill in music to his nature; and yet another gave him power over language. When he walked forth among the mortals, it was observed that he spoke as never man had spoken before. Through his eloquent words, one could hear the babble of the brooks, the songs of the birds, the sighing of the winds, the roar of the wild ocean, the merry voices of children at play, the wooing words of the lover ? all of the music of man and nature came at the call of his wonderful voice; and he became the first poet. This old tale is not true, of course; but it does suggest a great truth. The work, or art of the poet, is to reflect beautiful pictures of life, in beautiful words. When the artist author speaks, one can hear and see the birds, the brooks, the children and other voices and scenes in nature. To make this point clearer, read the following lines aloud, and listen. With what musical cadences do these pictures fall upon the ear and mind? "I bubble, babble as I flow To join the brimming river." ? Tennyson. "The day is dark and cold and dreary It rains and the wind is never weary." ? Longfellow. "The little bird sits at his door in the sun Atilt like a blossom among the leaves." ? Lowell. "The husky, rusty rustle of the tassels of the corn, And the raspin' of their tangled leaves As golden as the morn." ? Riley. "From the first bare clod in the raw, cold spring, To the last bare clod when the fall winds sting, The farm-boy hears his brave song ring, And life for the time is a pleasant thing." ? "The Meadow Lark." Hamlin Garland. "We'll roam the verdant hills, And by the sparkling rills Pluck the wild flowers; The fragrance on the air, The landscape bright and fair, And sunshine everywhere, Make pleasant hours." ? Emmeline B. Wells "Our Mountain Home so Dear." "Oh, ye mountains high, where the clear, blue sky Arches over the vales of the free, Where the clear streamlets flow, and the pure breezes blow, How I long to your bosom to flee." ? Chas. W. Penrose. "And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that now it was full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow; and they awake him, and say unto him, 'Master carest thou not that we perish?' And he arose and rebuked the wind, and said unto the wind, 'Peace, 
 be still.' And the wind ceased, and there was great calm." ? St. Mark. Literature, as already suggested, is the art of reflecting life in words. Just as the painter uses color, the sculptor, stone or bronze, the musician, "a concord of sweet sounds," to portray life as they see and feel it, so the author uses language to create literary forms to reflect the thoughts, the emotions, the pictures that life brings to him. In common with all other artists, it is the writer's mission to open our "inward eyes" to the beauties of the world in which we live, to help us to love the good, the true, the beautiful. To that end the poet or novelist creates characters which represent ideals, and tactfully he guides our sympathies, as we watch these characters working out their life problems, till we, too, learn to love them. Thus, Longfellow leads us with Evangeline through all her faithful wanderings, in search of her lover; or George Eliot takes our minds with Silas Marner through his tragic disappointment which drives him away from life and makes of him a miser and then we see him led back by the hand of a little child into human sympathy and love. Or in "Little Women", Louisa Alcott pictures for us the homely joys and sorrows of a good family of the common folk; again in Enoch Arden, Tennyson portrays the noble self-sacrifice of a man who would die in loneliness rather than break in and destroy the peace of his loved ones; in Julius Caesar, Shakespeare gives us a mighty drama portraying political passion and intrigue. In the Bible story, or history of Joseph, we get a wonderful story, reflecting the life of the Patriarch Jacob on the plains of Palestine, the sumptuous courts of Pharaoh, and the hand-dealings of God with his favorite son. No more artistic story than this of Joseph and his brethren is to be found
in literature. It is both true and uplifting. The master writers try always to produce such stories. They would have their tales both true to truth and true to life. This does not mean that the literary story must be true to fact. Most frequently it is not. The historian, the scientist, and others, deal with facts; the author uses his creative imagination to produce his stories, songs and sentiments that reflect life truly, vividly, that uplift and inspire us. He may base his work on facts, as did Scott when he wrote Ivanhoe and other historical novels; but he may also weave his literature out of the materials of fancy, so long as he makes it consistent, true to the life he attempts to portray. He may even create supernatural beings, if he chooses; but we still demand of him that these beings be true to the life they represent. The fairy godmother in Cinderella is true to fairy life, as we imagine it to be.