General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brown Lyman, Secretary. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held Wednesday and Thursday, October 4 and 5, 1916. Two general sessions were held on Wednesday, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and two meetings for officers were held Thursday in the Auditorium, fourth floor Bishop's building. A special meeting was held for secretaries and treasurers, during the noon recess on October 5, and on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, at 4:30 p. m., each day, genealogical meetings were held. On Wednesday evening a reception was given by the General Board to the authorities of the Church, and all official representatives of the Relief Society, at the home of Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune. On Wednesday and Thursday, noon luncheon was served cafeteria style — to the out-of-town representatives by the General Board. On Wednesday 530 women were served, and on Thursday 790. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening session in the Assembly Hall, 850 were in attendance, and in the afternoon of the same day the number was increased to 1,200. At the officers' meeting, Thursday morning, there were 650 present, and in the afternoon 790. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation General: — Board members, 17; stakes represented, 62 39 by stake presidents, and 23 by other officers Missions represented 5; — 4 by Mission presidents and one by branch officer. The total number of stake and ward officers reported was 497. Nine stakes were not represented. The missions represented were California, by Mrs. : — ; 
 Minnie J. Robinson Central States, by Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion; Eastern States, by Mrs. Walter P. Monson Northern States, by; Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth; Western States, by Mrs. John L. Herrick. The singing at all of the sessions was congregational, and was led by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Relief Society chorister. The following special musical numbers were given violin solo: Prof. Willard Weihe, accompanied by Prof. J. J. McClellan on the organ baritone solo, by Prof. A. C. Lund organ solo, by Tracy; ; Y. Cannon. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference. At the opening session, she welcomed all in attendance, and expressed her great pleasure in meeting again the officers and members of the Society in conference. She felt thankful that peace has been preserved in our beloved country which she characterized as the land of promise. She admonished the Relief Society members to live up to the ideals for which the organization stands, and to reverence the Church, and the authority of the priesthood. She spoke of the great responsibility resting on parents in the rearing of children, and of the importance of educating them in the faith of their fathers. Mrs. Mary M. Halls, President of Young Stake Relief Society responded to the address of welcome. She stated that the work of the Relief Society organization is next in importance to that of the Priesthood, and that the organization was the foundation of all the auxiliary work in the Church. The Society was organized for the salvation of mankind, and the relief of distress — the two highest purposes possible. Mrs. Halls emphasized the importance of the education and development of women along all lines, and she declared that upon the enlightenment of women depends the character of men. Two of the most interesting features of the session were reports given by Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, and Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion, presidents of the Relief Societies of the Northern and Central States Missions. Mrs. Ellsworth reported a membership of 350, and an average attendance of 20, in the 20 branches of her mission, which are located in the following states: Iowa, Minnesota. Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana and Manitoba. Prior to the organization of a new Relief Society, Mrs. Ellsworth forms a mothers' class for the instruction of the new members of the Church. Here they are taught, among other things, how to conduct meetings, and each one is given an opportunity to act as presiding officer. All the Relief Society members in this mission act as missionaries, and during the past year, they have distributed 3,611 books, magazines and tracts, and have reported 3,073 gospel conversations. ; CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 665 Mrs. Ellsworth spoke of the great interest in genealogy and temple work, stating that during the past year $172.50 had been sent to the St. George Temple for work, and that $56 had been donated to the temple; 1,954 names were sent for baptism and 392 endowments had been performed. Mrs. Lottie T. Bennion reported the organizations of twelve Relief Societies in the Central States, located in Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, and Oklahoma. The membership in these branches is 280 with an average attendance of 83%. Some of the societies are located one thousand miles from mission headquarters, but all of them are visited and are under the direct supervision of the president. In this mission the outline work has been followed in the main, but other features have been introduced, that seemed to be especially needed; for example, in a Texas branch, she made a specialty of teaching breadmaking, and in a very short time light, wholesome bread replaced the hot breads that had been served exclusively before. The women in this mission are very devoted to Relief Society work, many of them walking five, six, and seven miles to attend meetings. Many of them work in factories or in the cotton fields. An effort is being made, in this mission, to raise funds for temple work. In one branch a loom has been bought, and the members are weaving carpets and rugs for sale; in the south, many of the members are picking cotton to raise money for this purpose, and one poor woman sends $10 a month for her temple work. The sick have been well taken care of in this Mission. During the last year 1,500 visits have been made to the sick, 150 of these being made by the President herself. In closing, Mrs. Bennion spoke of the excellent work done by the lady missionaries, but she made a plea that the mothers of the organization would use their influence to see that the young women who go on missions, are better trained in Church ordinances before entering the mission field, and that they have instructions on how to preserve the sacredness of the garment and to dress neatly and modestly. Stake reports were given as follows Wayne stake, by Mrs. : Bathsheba Grundy San Juan stake, by Mrs. Mary N. Jones; Rigby stake, Mrs. Emmeline Shurtliff. These stakes were reported to be in good condition with energetic officers, and active members, all devoted to the Relief Society cause. Several typical examples of relief work were cited. Mrs. Jones spoke of the aid given by her workers to refugees from Mexico, and Mrs. Grundy told of how a home was obtained and furnished for an emigrant family, and how another was prepared for a family who lost their home by fire. Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth praised the work of the Relief Society —eulogizing all workers from the President E. B. — 
 Wells — to the least members of the Society. She commented on the splendid reports given, and expressed appreciation for women who are able to set self aside and work for a great cause. At the Wednesday afternoon session, addresses were made by Mrs. Reed Smoot, Mrs. Ida B. Smith, Mrs. Alice M. Home, Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith, and by President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Smoot spoke on home life, emphasizing the far-reaching effects of healthy, happy homes. Homes and not houses are the centers of the universe. Mrs. Smoot commented on the efficacy of prayer, and its influence in home life, relating in this connection some of her personal experiences. Mrs. Ida B. Smith was the next speaker. Mrs. Smith has just recently returned from Europe where her husband — Elder — Hyrum M. Smith presided over the European, Mission, and where she acted as President of the Relief Societies. Mrs. Smith gave a report of the regular work of the 'Relief Society in these far away countries, and also an interesting account of the special work done by the societies in Great Britain, and other European countries, in connection with other organizations, for the alleviation of suffering and distress in this war-ridden country. In December of last year, each Society in the Mission was given $15.00 with which to purchase material and begin work, and during the months that followed, hundreds of comfortable articles were turned over for distribution to those in need 3,634; articles of clothing were made (consisting of night gowns, dresses bed linen, etc.), and 2,427 articles were knitted. Many thousands of books, pamphlets and tracts were also distributed in the hospitals, and among the wounded elsewhere. Mrs. Smith told of her visit to the largest military hospital in England, where she personally distributed hundreds of tracts. She also gave an account of a whole program given by one of the branches at an entertainment for the benefit of the wounded soldiers. The special relief work taken up by the British societies was undertaken with a two-fold purpose, to aid the needy and distressed, and to spread the principles of the gospel, and the results have been gratifying from every point of view. The following statistical report was given: number of societies in Europe, 101; membership, 2,146; officers and teachers, 652; families assisted during the year, 1.025; visits made to sick, 8,919; paid for charitable purposes, $3,210.80. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home gave a report of the work done by the General Board in connection with the City Board of Health at the various milk stations about the city during the months of July and August. Mrs. Home stated that five milk stations had been in operation during the summer, with a trained nurse furnished by the city, in charge of each station. At four CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 667 of the stations, Relief Society workers were furnished by the General Board to assist with the work-these helpers giving part of their services free— 55 days' work in all were donated. The funds for the work were contributed as follows: General Board, $150; Presiding Bishop's Office, $150; Elizabeth Cutler Jenkins, $50. — The milk was furnished by the City 1,036 quarts were sold; 1,486 quarts were given away, and 11.000 lbs. of ice donated by the Telegram were given away. The great object of the work is the saving of babies, and it is felt that many lives were saved, and much suffering alleviated during this time. Many sick babies were brought to the station where they received the attention of a competent physician, and were followed to their homes by the nurses and helpers who gave instructions to the mothers on the care of children. Parents' classes were held in connection with this work, and 1,700 pamphlets on health and sanitation were distributed. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams expressed her great joy in listening to the reports that had been given during the conference. She was especially pleased with reports from the mission fields, and felt to urge all mothers present to give full support to any measure that would better prepare our young people to be efficient, worthy, and exemplary workers, both at home and abroad. She felt that greater efforts might be put forth to educate them in the principles of the gospel. Mrs. Williams mentioned the great need of reform in dress and social life among the young people in the Church, and stated that a request had been made by the First Presidency that the women of the Relief Society, the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary Association should take up the matter of reform in dress and amusements, and that committees would be appointed from each organization, and the matter considered at once. Mrs. Williams scored the extremes in style of dress and the excessive use of cosmetics, and stated that while a great deal can be accomplished toward putting down these errors through the auxiliary organizations, the mothers themselves should take a firm stand in the matter, and use all their influence toward bringing about moderation and reform. The speaker closed with the prayer that the women would be loyal to the First Presidency of the Church in all things, and be ready and willing to take up all the work they suggested. Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke along the same lines. She felt that though the work of the Society is largely relief work, there are many other important things for us to do, and at the present time, one of our greatest duties is to look after the young people. Mrs. Smith spoke against card-playing, immodest dancing, and the dress in vogue at the present time, stating that all these things tend toward evil. Many mothers follow these extremes themselves, and should reform themselves before under: 
 taking to reform the young people. Mrs. Smith urged that we all set ourselves right in these matters, and then exert ourselves to help others to carry out the instructions of the First Presidency of the Church. President Emmeline B. Wells gave the closing remarks bearing her testimony, and urging the necessity of the storing of wheat, repeating the words of prophecy that the "Saints should go to the mountains and the world should come to them to be fed." She alluded to present war conditions, and asked the women to be especially diligent in performing this important duty of the organization. officers' meetings. — Two officers' meetings were held on Thursday the morning session was devoted to a teachers' convention, and the afternoon session was taken up with a preview of the lesson work for 1917, which will be found in our Guide Department, and with reports on the various activities of the Society. teachers' convention. The program for the teachers' convention was as follows — History of Relief Society teachers' work Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. — Duties of Teachers Counselor Julina L. Smith. Activities: (a) — Emergency cabinets Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, (b) Special missionary visits, Miss Sarah McLelland, (c) Employment Bureau, Miss Sarah Eddington. (d) The future of the work, Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams gave a brief history of the teachers' work, beginning with the foundation of the organization, in 1842. She stated that the first mission of the Society was to care for the poor and needy, the sick, and the afflicted, and to comfort those who mourn. The Prophet stated in the first meeting of the Society that "if any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution, let them be appointed and set apart, as deacons, teachers, etc., are among us." In the beginning of the organization, the early workers were all enthusiastic over the opportunity the Society gave them to carry out their desires to do good, and it was a common occurrence for the women to make personal sacrifices in order to do this. It was not uncommon for a woman to arise in meeting, and say, 'I give all my jewels for the sick;" and for another to say, "I give all my jewels for clothing for those who are in need." The desire to be of service and to help others seemed to be the strongest thought connected with the early work, and the society was only one month old when the officers realized that to accomplish the best results the work must be organized and systematized. The people were willing to work: CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 669 and to give of their means, but just how to carry on the work was the question that must be solved. At a meeting held, April 14, 1842, reports were given on promiscuous individual work that had been done, and the President, Emma Smith, said, "We must provide a way to do our work systematically and intelligently." There were four wards in Nauvoo at this time, and as there was only one corps of officers, meetings were held consecutively in the wards, one meeting each week, in order that all the officers — might attend them this made four meetings each month one — for each ward. On July 24. 1843. Elizabeth Ann Whitney suggested that a necessity committee be "appointed to seek out the suffering, and to procure means for the rich to alleviate them. There is no doubt but that this question had been discussed a great deal informally among the women, and Mrs. Whitney had thought out this plan. Acting on her suggestions a committee of women was appointed, four from each ward. These sixteen women were instructed to discover the needs of the poor, and to get aid from the rich. They were told to go about this work in a spirit of love and humility, and that the Spirit of God would help them and would stimulate the hearts of the rich. The appointment of these sixteen women was the beginning of the teachers' work in the Relief Society, and in the seventy-three years that have followed, the number of teachers has grown from sixteen to 12.386. To show that the women realized the delicacy of the mission of the teacher, Mrs. Williams related that Mrs. Orson Spencer, of the Nauvoo Fourth Ward, asked to be relieved from this appointment, as she feared the bishops would resent this work as interference. President Joseph Smith in hearing of this, sent word to the society that the bishops would appreciate the aid given by the sisters, and would not be offended. He also stated that the Lord would provide ways and means for the Relief Society to accomplish its noble work. Mrs. Spencer thereupon withdrew her objection to serving on the committee. Mrs. Williams traced the importance of the teachers' work from these early days up to the present time, stating that it had been continued along the pattern suggested by Mrs. Whitney. In reviewing the history of the work, she had been unable to learn when the name of "teacher" was first given to this corps of workers. , Duties of Relief Society teachers was the subject discussed by Julina L. Smith. Mrs. Smith outlined; the duties of ward teachers as follows To visit the homes of members monthly. To ascertain cases of want. To alleviate distress. To collect money and material for charitable purposes. 
 To distribute funds and supplies, under the direction of the ward presidency. There need be no ward teachers' committee as the ward presidency presides over the teachers' quorum, and has direct charge of all work done. Cases of great want or sickness should be reported at once by the block teachers to the ward presidency, who will attend to such calls, and arrange to supply needed help. Teachers should get and keep the spirit of the gospel. The living testimony is a force, a power, an active impulse towards good, within the human soul. Action is life, inaction is death. Living water is in motion, stagnant water breeds disease and' death. Teachers need this active force to enable them to accomplish their arduous tasks, and to prevent them from becoming weary in well-doing. They should not perform their labors in a formal, listless way. As they feel in entering a home, so will the hostess feel after their visit. Teachers should not feel that they are beggars when they enter the homes in search of aid for others, but that they are helpers, and they should be respected in their positions. Mrs. Smith emphasized the point that teachers receive no financial benefit whatever from their work, and they do many things for those in sorrow and need which are known only to heaven. The following list of topics arranged by the General Board for teachers was read by Mrs. Smith as suggestive for discussion in the homes of the people: TOPICS FOR TEACHERS. 1. Women of the Bible. 2. Reading the Scriptures. 3. The Book of Mormon. 4. A Testimony of the Truth. 5. Temple Work. 6. Bridal Clothing in the Temple. 7. Preparation in Cleanliness Before Entering the Temple. 8. How to Simplify Housework. 9. Less Work on Sunday. More Rest for Mother. 10. Evils of Birth Control or Race Suicide. 11. Modesty in Dress. 12. The Word of Wisdom. 13. Card-playing. 14. Church Schools. 15. Prayer. 16. Teaching Children the Principles of the Gospel. 17. Fulfilment of Prophecy. 18. The Relief Society. 19. Auxiliary Organizations. CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 671 20. Love at Home. 21. Reverence for the Priesthood. 22. Summer Pleasures. 23. Wastefulness. 24. Family Insurance. These topics should be handled tactfully. Teachers should not argue on political or religious matters and should not seek to regulate the families. Mrs. Smith referred to the evils of card-playing and closed by urging the teachers to maintain a high standard in regard to Church teachings, and to be exemplars in all things. Mrs. Amelia W. Cutler, first Counselor in Pioneer stake spoke on Emergency Cabinets. Mrs. Cutler stated that the Pioneer stake maintains an emergency cabinet, which contains medical supplies, including olive oil, simple remedies, soap, towels, sterilized clothes, and basins, besides clothing and bedding and; that the committee is always able to give immediate relief. The cabinet itself is arranged with drawers and shelves and receptacles to conveniently hold all these articles, and is closed in with two large doors which are kept closed and locked. This insures safety and cleanliness for the articles. The clothing is made to fit people of all ages, and a great deal of pains is taken by the committee to keep it neat this is particularly true with regard to the articles; for babies. Whenever it is necessary to replenish the cabinet, the wards are called upon to assist. Regular sewing days are planned, and the sisters meet in large numbers to do the sewing. Sometimes showers are given for the cabinet, and many articles are secured in this way. Miss Sarah McLelland told of special missionary visits carried on in many of the stakes, work being done in the interest of the aged, foreigners just arriving in stakes, and preventative work for wayward girls. In some stakes, mothers' and daughters' meetings are held, when such subjects as "the sacredness of marriage, parenthood, and obedience" are discussed. The speaker declared that on womankind is placed the responsibility of the moral life of the community, and that one of the Society's main objects should be the saving of souls. Miss Sarah Eddington gave an interesting report of the employment bureau maintained in the Presiding Bishop's Office under the direction of the Bishopric. It is the object of this bureau to locate reliable people in reliable positions, and the work is all done free of charge. The speaker recommended the establishing of such bureaus in the various stakes, and also made the plea that work be found in home towns for the young people, rather than sending them to the city for employment. Comparisons were made between the wages of the ordinary girl 
 working in department stores, and the cost of living, and it was seen that very little can be saved by girls in such employment. The speaker emphasized the fact that house-keeping is a better class of work, and pays better wages, and would, she believed, be more sought for by working girls, if the hours were better regulated by house-keepers. Following we give a letter sent by the P. B. O. to ward bishops, and also a report of the employment furnished in one month: Dear Brother: The success that has attended our efforts in securing work for worthy people has been so encouraging that we have concluded to extend our efforts to our brethren and sisters returning from the Mission field and to those immigrating to Zion. We desire that our brethren and sisters from abroad should begin their new homes under conditions that will be favorable to their temporal and spiritual development. Their are many Latter-day Saints residing in our large cities who would be better off if they were located in our country districts. We have thought of your locality as a suitable place for such people to settle. Will you therefore advise us of the situation in your ward? Can you assist one or more families to get started in life who might come to you with nothing but a willingness to work and a determination to succeed if given the opportunity? If so, please give us specific information on the printed form enclosed. If there is no such opening, what are the local opportunities for a family with limited means? The spirit prompting the ideas outlined above is the same that has been the means of developing this intermountain country. It is the duty of every member to help his brethren. In the earliest days when a new comer arrived in the settlements, it was customary to help him in a substantial manner. Some would give chickens, others a pig, more prosperous brethren would render more substantial aid, and frequently the members of the ward would assist the new comer to plow his first few acres of land and take a general interest in his welfare until he got started in life. He, in turn, would assist others who followed after him. Many of our people owe their present success and prosperity to the assistance rendered in this manner when they arrived here. We hope that you will take this matter up with the Priesthood of your ward, so that we can have the hearty co-operation of all the members of the ward. We feel confident that you will approve of this movement and will give us all the aid you can. Awaiting your reply, we are, Your brethren in the gospel, The Presiding Bishopric. : : CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 673 PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT REPORT FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL, 1916. Employment was furnished as follows Out of 178 applications 167 received employment: Blacksmiths 2 Dressmakers 2 Bookbinders 1 Farm Hands 8 Bookkeepers 4 Gardeners 5 Carpenters 4 Janitors 2 Clerks • 5 Laborers 30 Cement Workers 3 Messengers 2 Civil Engineers 1 Nurse Girls 4 Chambermaids 5 Orderlies 6 Chauffeurs 6 Painters 5 Cleaners 11 Pressfeeders. , 3 Cooks 5 Stenographers 6 Dairying 6 Stone Cutters 1 Domestics 28 Telephone Operators.... 3 " Demonstrators 7 Doormen 2 Total 167 Mrs. Susa Young Gates spoke on the future of the teachers' work. She said that the first extension work done in the world was done by the Relief Society teachers of the "Mormon" Church. Mrs. Gates then gave the following instructions regulating teachers' activities A Teachers' Committee should be appointed in every stake board, but no ward teachers' committee is needed, the Presidency being in direct charge of the teachers' activities. The stake committee may assist the stake presidency to arrange the work of the ward Relief Society block teachers. Alternate teachers may be appointed in the wards to substitute for regular teachers, when necessary, also to assist in visiting districts widely separated. The President may arrange for the teachers to prepare themselves with the regular theology topic, or with any one of the subjects in this circular, so that a little profitable conversation may be entered into in the homes where they visit. But doctrinal discussions should be avoided. A teacher may comfort, encourage, and bless the sisters, but should never seek to regulate the family. Surplus funds or supplies in one ward may be used by the stake presidency to supply the deficiencies in another ward, provided such exchange is agreeable to all concerned. Stake presidents in large cities may arrange for emergency cabinets, which contain medical and hygienic equipment for cases; 
 of sudden need. These cabinets should be under the charge of the Relief Society Presidency, assisted by the stake teachers' committee; or, if established in the wards, by the President and block teachers. An employment bureau has been opened in the Presiding Bishop's Office, under the charge of Elder Frank Penrose. Women who want domestic, stenographic, or other positions, and those who desire to secure help, may apply to Elder Penrose who serves all courteously and without charge. He is in constant communication with the ward bishopric, and if Relief Society presidents know of girls or women coming to Salt Lake City for employment, they could bring a letter from the Society President to the Bishop's Office, which keeps a registered account of all persons who are recommended, until they have secured positions. Stake teachers' committees may co-operate with the bishops in forming local employment bureaus. Special missionary work is sometimes undertaken, and should rightly belong to the teachers' department. Visits to new converts, to fresh arrivals in the ward and to those not of our faith, or to those who have become lukewarm in their feelings, might be undertaken by teachers especially chosen by the ward, presidency, as the duties of the regular teachers are sufficiently taxing without adding to their labors. There must be no duplication of office and work in our organizations. All work done for charity, whether in collections or distribution, must be under the charge of the regular ward officers assisted by the block teachers. Teachers" conventions may be held annually. Mrs. Gates urged that the teachers, above all people, should use discretion and tact, that they should never seek to regulate or dictate to the families they visit and should never repeat or indulge in gossip. AFTERNOON SESSION. The outline work for 1917 was the first consideration at the afternoon session. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams announced the subject for next year as follows: Theology and Genealogy, Home Economics, Literature the only change from last year being the; substitution of literature for art. Current Events will be continued during the coming year, ten minutes of each session being given, to these subjects. The outlines for the whole year were read and discussed as follows Theology, Edna May Davis: Genealogy, Susa Young Gates Home Economics, Amy B. Ly; CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 675 man; Literature, Elizabeth S. Wilcox (see Guide Department in this number for full outlines). Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings reported the opening of the Nurse Class, September 18, with an enrollment of 22 students. Half of these students will take the course in obstetrics in connection with the nurse class, and all will take the course in invalid cooking. Mrs. Jennings predicted a very successful year for the school. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune spoke on the Temple Penny Subscription Fund, explaining that the fund was started to assist with the erection of the Canadian and Hawaiian temples. She stated that donation to this fund is entirely voluntary, but is a choice privilege. Emma A. Empey made a brief report of her recent visit to the East, where she was accompanied by Mrs. Lyman and Mrs. Hyde, and the Misses Emily and Edith Smith. Mrs. Empey referred to the great pleasure she experienced in visiting the missions, and the places connected with the early history of the Church. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams made a brief report of the Magazine, stating that the rise in the cost of paper would greatly increase the expense of the publication. She reported that the printing of the Magazine alone would be $106.40 per month over what it was last year; that for extra numbers the increase in price per thousand would be $37.25 over last year also that the; dealers would sign a contract for four months only for fear of another raise in price. Mrs. Williams said it had been suggested that in order to reduce expense, agents be discontinued, and that the officers take care of the subscriptions. A discussion followed from the body of the house. It was finally moved by Susa Young Gates, seconded by Julina L. Smith, and carried, that the agents receive their regular per cent until further notice. President Emmeline B. Wells made the closing remarks. She expressed her thanks in being permitted to live to attend the officers' meetings of the Relief Society, and to hear the reports, all of which showed the Society to be growing and progressing. She felt especially thankful for the great work being done for. the salvation of the dead — a work she had been vitally interested in since the days of Nauvoo. Mrs. Wells bore her testimony, and asked God's blessings on the Relief Societies throughout the world. Thus ended one of the best and most profitable conferences ever held by our great and still growing Society.