GUIDE LESSONS. 727 In his Rip Van Winkle, Irving lets his hero, Rip, sleep for twenty years; but though we permit this, we still demand that Rip awake as if he had slept a score of years away, and we follow the poor, bewildered man back to his home to find the changes wrought there in his family, and his friends. It all seems so natural that we do not stop to question the consistency of the fancy flight Irving has given us. The story is artistically true. Shakespeare brings ghosts into his plays very frequently. What do they represent? Simply the workings of the passion-tossed or troubled mind. When Brutus, after his quarrel with Cassius, sits at night in his tent, buried in thought, what is more natural than that his worried mind should bring up the ghost of Caesar, whom he and others have slain? It is said of Dickens that when he was creating his "Old Curiosity Shop" and running it as a serial story in a magazine, some of the readers, before they had seen the end of the story, guessed that Little Nell, the heroine, was going to die. And these people actually wrote to Dickens begging him to let Little Nell live. The great writer replied that he could not do it, and be true to life, so he refused to yield to the sympathies of his audience. The master artist will not violate truth to gain money or popularity. He prefers, as Kipling puts it "To paint the thing as he sees it For the God of things as they are." It is the cheap, the irresponsible author that bends his story to serve commercial ends, distorting truth, painting highly-colored pictures full of sensationalism to please the perverted taste of the populace. Too many such writers are filling our magazines and scattering their books by the thousands through the country today, or giving them in more vivid form through the movies, and from the stage. As Josh Billings humorously puts it: "About half the lies they tell ain't true." The chief concern for our mothers is to guard their children's minds from unwholesome mental food, studying how to judge the true and wholesome story. Happily there are many good stories which can be substituted for false and unwholesome ones. We commend this as a first guiding principle: Choose literature that is artistically true to life and wholesome. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Let each member give a line or two from some choice selection in verse or prose to show how the author reflects the music of nature or pictures of life through his words. 
 Note: These quotations may be found in our best hymns or the Bible, or in any reader or book of choice poems. 2. How is the poet like the painter? In what do these artists differ in their work? 3. What is meant by this: The author need not be true to fact, but he should be true to life? 4. What created character in some story have you learned to admire? Why? 5. What created scene or description has impressed you? 6. Show how the story of Joseph measures up to the best in literature. 7. Name some other story, not in the Bible that you feel is artistically true and wholesome. 8. What practical steps can mothers take to cultivate a love for the best literature in their homes? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in January. MOTHER'S CONDITION AND DIET. Naturally, the diet of the mother, together with her bodily condition, makes for health, or lack of it, in the food which she supplies to her nursing babe. If it is important that the various food elements supplied to the mother shall be correctly proportioned, in order to keep her in health, it is of equal importance for the well-being of the little one who is to be nourished by her. Tradition has given a series of false notions, all of them, however, having some foundation in fact. For instance, mothers are, sometimes, told that they must eat enough for two, and that they must not eat fruit while nursing a child, nor any kind of meat. As a matter of fact, the old tradition that drinking quantities of milk, and swilling quarts of tea, would supply the mother with milk, tends to create a bilious condition in the mother, and if she is of that tendency, will fatten her at the expense of her child. A good, plain, wholesome diet for the mother, with plenty of beefsteak or a mutton chop, fruit, vegetables, plentiful and frequent water drinking, and, perhaps, a good bowl of thin gruel, in the evening before going to bed, are all that the mother needs to keep up her own health, and to give good milk for her child. The effect of tea, coffee, and beer upon the mother's milk may not be so injurious as to quantity, but the stimulating properties of these drinks creates an inflamed condition in the mother which is too often communicated to the child, thus producing an overwrought, nervous condition. Malted milk, and milk, are as GUIDE LESSONS. 729 a rule, too rich, unless somewhat diluted, especially if drunk with the meals. Soup, which is highly flavored with onions or cabbage, produces gas, and may give the child colic. The effect on the mother's appetite of spices and stimulants, on the health and development of the child, is highly injurious. Rich food, highly seasoned, is also deleterious in every way to both mother and child. Drugs should be avoided, and yet the mother should be careful to keep her bowels regular, and to see that all of the processes of life go on regularly without interruption. The intestinal decomposition which occurs where constipation is allowed, reacts upon the child and often produces colic. Nursing Diet for Mother. Taking it for granted that a child is being nursed, under whatever condition of life for the mother, the following points are to be remembered: The mother's diet should not include too much meat and solid food; an abundant light diet should be given at first, such as milk gruels, soups, vegetables, bread and butter, and, after the first week, a small amount of meat once a day; increase diet as the exercise increases, using plain but nutritious foods, taking regular meals, and sometimes using, between mealtimes, hot milk. Use no stimulants. Malt extracts are useful, and milk or gruel taken at night is to be advocated. Idiosyncrasies are to be looked for, and if certain articles disagree with certain women, and, consequently, with their children, they should be omitted; but they need not be forbidden to all women on that account. Physicians say that an average woman should use a plain mixed diet, with a moderate excess of fluids and proteids over what she is normally accustomed to. The habits of the nursing mother should be founded on regularity and system. Not only in the management of her household duties is this required, but if the child is nursed at regular intervals, and this rule is persisted in, the results are of the utmost benefit to both mother and child. Hard work is not bad for a nursing mother; provided, it does not appeal to her as drudgery. If she is in love with her work, or can persuade herself to fall in love with it, and if her bodily habits are regular and natural, she is safe to go about her home without any restrictions, as to time or strength, because of nursing her child. There are some suggestions, however, that should claim the attention of the nursing mother: Her vitality, if deflected along other channels than her natural domestic duties, that is, if she has mental labors to perform which would direct the vitality into other channels than those which lead to the breast secretions, the mother will find her milk speedily failing, as well as deteriorating in quality. The mother should avoid over-heating her blood. You will 
 notice that cows are carefully guarded, and no one would permit a valuable cow to be hurried or worried, lest the over-heating process should entirely dry up the milk, or otherwise injure the cow and calf. How much more careful we should be of our human mothers. Anger, fear, worry, jealousy, hatred, and malice, will produce far more evil effects upon the breast secretions than merely over-heating the blood through hurrying or running, or working in over-heated rooms. The effect of evil emotions is to generate acid poisons which are so startling in their results that physicians stand aghast at the records of medical practitioners. The nursing child has been known to be smitten instantly with both nervous and other illnesses, on nursing an angry mother, or one filled with jealousy and hatred. A specific illustration of this was found in the "beef-critter" which was killed on the Sandwich Islands while in bellowing anger; and the whole "Mormon" colony was smitten with sickness upon eating the meat cut therefrom, while two small boys died from the effects. Pleasant environment, with a restful state of mind, interest in the work and play of the day, gives the best foundation for healthy milk and a happy baby. Plenty of fresh air and sunshine should be furnished the nursing mother. It would be just as great a piece of folly to keep a cow shut up in a dark stable, month in and month out, and expect the cow to furnish nourishing, healthy milk, as to keep a mother chained to her kitchen and expect her to supply her babe with proper nourishment. A peace of mind, harmony with one's surroundings, and a faith in Providence, give the best foundation of all for healthy mothers and happy babies. QUESTIONS. 1. What can you say about the diet of the nursing mother? 2. What effect has stimulants upon her? 3. What would you call a "plain, wholesome diet"? 4. What foods are injurious to the mother? 5. What foods eaten by the mother may produce colic in the babe? 6. What can you say of tea, coffee and beer, as drinks for the mother? 7. How best can a mother keep her bowels regular? 8. Why is system and order necessary for the mother? 9. What can you say about hard work for the nursing mother? 10. Name some injurious habits. 11. What about the injurious effects of grief, worry, anger and hate? 12. Describe the ideal conditions for mother and child. Charity Never Faileth The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME III "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious." Joseph F. Smith. Published by the General Board of the Relief Society Room 29 "Bishop's" Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 
 Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director INDEX. GUIDE DEPARTMENT. Page Page Literature Theology?Women of the Literature as Creative Art. . . 724 Bible Home Economics Elizabeth and Anna 586 Co-operations 533 Esther 468 Home Economics Movement Judith 526 and Its Meaning 658 Leah and Rachel 169 Home Making as a Profession 116 Mary 650 Mother's Condition and Diet 728 Miriam and Deborah 227 Household Wastes 476 Rebecca 111 The Organization of Housework 292 Ruth 286 The Servant Problem 592 Sarah and Hagar 49 The Latter-day Saint Home. 55 The Garden of Eden 717 The Business Side of Housekeeping 175 Genealogy The Home Budget 233 Anglo-Saxon Surnames..... 652 Summer Health Lessons Conclusion 288 Sanitation 356 Family Association 113 Prevention of Disease 412 Introduction 52 Linking the Past to the Present 
 Scandinavian Surnames Found in England 720 A New Year Resolve 47 Scotch and Irish Surnames.. 588 Climbing 354 Surnames 471 Efficiency 109 Temple Excursions 171 Out of Death Life is Born 584 Tribal Surnames. Sire Names 528 Paying the Price 283 Peace on Earth 710 Art and Architecture Self-pity 524 Indian Summer Landscape, Testimony of the Truth of the Sunset and Twilight 473 Gospel 166 November Landscape 590 The Childless Ones 225 October Days 531 The Church Militant 684 "On Earth Peace, Good Will Will Conquering 465 to Men" 655 Who Can Help Me? 409 Out-of-door Study 114 Spring Landscape Study 231 POETRY Summer Landscape 290 Absence 481 The Interdependence of Ancestors 239 Landscape 173 At Evening 539 Winter Landscape and SunA Prayer 81 shine 54 A Prayer for Perfectness of American Architecture 291 Life 338 Classic Period, Classic ReA Heroine 343 vivals, the Victorian Gothic 233 A Sonnet 196 Early Republican Period, and A Sure Defense 546 the Revivals 475 A Voice Calling 300 Period of the Renaissance, 55 A War Time Reminder 647 Panama-Pacific International Byron's Unpublished Prayer.. 1 Exposition 657 Chance and Change 355 The Interdependence of IV RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Architecture 173 Page Page War Period and Modern Charity 512 Movement 532 Cobwebs 18 Constant Mary 424 Ethics 348 Does It Pay? 351 Fear in a Little Child 619 Female Relief Society of NauFilet Crochet Yoke 505 voo 121 Gates, Emma Lucy's Wedding For Right 601 Cake 441 General Conference of the ReHappy as a King 215 lief Society 663 Introspection 61 Give Glory to God 12 My Epitaph 181 Good-by, California Congress, My Friend 148 Good-by 274 Not Even Fate 141 Graduation Exercises of the Old Folks Greetings 301 Class of Obstetrics and NursRevelry 407 ing 379 Similitude 660 Granite Stake Relief Society Spring 209 Cantata 320 Temple Hymn 79 Health Note ?The Common The Flowers' Resurrection.... 277 Wash Rag 301 The Quest 165 Home Science Department. . . . The Peasant Mother 262 44, 85, 157, The Cross 324 213, 263, 344, 396, 454, 521, 559, 632 The Seeing Heart 337 How Betty Helped 602, 695 The Truest Calendar 377 Literature for the Home... 705, 714 To My Mother 361 Ma's New Year's Resolution.. 7 The Toilers 467 Mental Hygiene for the WomThe Mother's Prayer 506 an Past Fifty 30 The Future Life 541 Mother's Day 374 Thou Shalt Be a Blessing 121 Mothers in Israel The Two-faced Clock 421 Lund, Sarah A. Peterson. . . . 243 To Emma 509 Nibley, Jean Wilson 303 When First We Met 378 Pratt, Mary Ann Stearns 423 Written for a Bereft Sister 308 Smith, Lucy Mack 5 Within the Locket 6 Smith, Mary Fielding 133 Zion Prospers, All Is Well 190 Snow, Eliza R 181 Wells, Emmeline B 63 MISCELLANEOUS PROSE Winters, Mary Ann Stearns (Autobiography of) 423 Aberdeen, Lord and Lady.... 13 Winters, Mary Ann Stearns 574 A Call to Arms 603 Winters, Mary Ann Stearns 641 A Child's Record 610 Mother Takes Advice 436 An Expression of Approval... 181 My Testimony Concerning A Priceless Golden Wedding.. 369 Temple Work 82 A Testimony 80 Nearest and Dearest 689 A War Time Reminder. 645 Notes from Remarks of Dr. A Wondrous Woman's Book. 210 Margaret C. Roberts, Relief Being "Gran" 494 Society Conference, May, 1916 417 Betty Morgan's Dilemma 260 Our Delegates in Washington 168 Beyond the Portals 325 Perfect Guidance of Children 702 Birth Control 363, 433 Plain Gossip 258, 335, 402