Conference Address
By Mrs. May Booth Talmage Former President European Mission Relief Societies
My dear co-workers: I cannot express to you this afternoon the gratitude that is in my soul for this opportunity to speak to you about the work of the Relief Societies in the European Mission. I also desire to express my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for the opportunity that came into my life to go into the mission field as a representative of His Church. There may be some here who are not quite clear in their minds as to just what is meant by the European Mission. This is not just one among the many missions of the world, but comprises the ten missions established on the Eastern Hemisphere. They are the Armenian, the British, the Danish, the French, the German-Austrian, the Netherlands, the Norwegian, the Swedish, the Swiss-German, and the South African. Our northernmost branch is within the Arctic Circle, and we have several branches in South Africa. On the East, the Mission extends to Syria and Palestine, and on the West it includes the British Isles. The President of the European Mission has the responsibility of supervising the missions on the Continent, and he is also in direct charge of the British Mission, which comprises England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, and within which area there are seventy branches of the Church, grouped into fifteen Districts; a grouping similar to that of the Stakes and Wards in Zion. The wife of the President of the European Mission presides over the Relief Societies of the European Mission and of the British Mission under the direction of her husband. We had the pleasure of visiting the Netherlands Relief Societies twice?once in 1925 when Sister Hyde was in charge of this work, and again in 1926, when the work was under the direction of Sister Lillywhite, as it is today. Excellent progress is being made, especially in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. In the latter place there were more than fifty women gathered at a branch meeting we attended, and it was marvelous to see how the women in this as in other distant countries were imbued with the true spirit of the work. Under the supervision of Sisters Cannon and Valentine, who plan their work together, the Relief Society activities in the Swiss-German and German-Austrian Missions are making tremendous strides. Meetings are held in commodious school buildings. The excellent magazine published by the two missions provides a medium of communication with members, and also space
CONFERENCE ADDRESS 367
for lessons. Many of the women are well educated, and give lessons or take part in the discussions with as great freedom as we do here. On the occasion of our first visit in 1925, when Sister Tadje was in charge, a splendid Relief Society conference was held in Berlin with four hundred people in attendance. We also held a meeting at Chemnitz at which more than five hundred were present. We were delightfully surprised to find at Breslau, on the Polish border of Germany, three fine Relief Societies. The amount and variety of clothing made and of fancy work done by these sisters and brought together for our inspection, was amazing. The work in Basel, Hamburg and other parts of the Swiss-German Mission is of the same high order. The Saints in the Scandinavian countries are handicapped by not having much of our Church literature translated. Their Relief Society meetings are conjoint and the brethren seem as anxious as the sisters to come to Relief Society on lesson nights, and donate to this worthy cause. They have a small magazine in which lessons translated from The Millennial Star are published. In Denmark there are three earnest organizations directed by Sister Ida Peterson. We found there a good attendance, a splendid spirit, and a most encouraging outlook. In Sweden, we attended a meeting in Gottenburg and a conference in Stockholm. In the latter place elaborate preparations had been made for the occasion. The Meeting-house was made beautiful with palms, ferns, smilax, and abundant flowers, and the local sisters in this, as in many other places, came for several days and prepared hot meals for all the missionaries in attendance. Sister Hulterstrom is now in charge of our work there. We went from Sweden to Norway and found four active societies in Oslo, Trondhjem, Narvik and Bergen. In the absence of President Christopherson's wife, the Relief work was being splendidly supervised by the Mission Secretary, Sister Borgheild Nielson, who was succeeded by the wife of President Anderson. In September, 1927, there was held in Dresden a four-day convention of Mission Presidents and their wives. The sisters met in separate sessions to discuss the Relief work, in an effort to standardize and unify it in the various missions as far as possible. The results should prove beneficial to future endeavor. Preceding and following this convention it was my great privilege to visit nine Relief Societies of the French Mission, some of which are in Belgium, some in France, and some in Switzerland. There, the growth and development of our work under the direction of Sister Venus R. Rossiter has been phenomenal, as was recently reported in detail in the Relief Society Magazine.


It was not my privilege to visit the Armenian and South African Missions, but I kept in touch with them. Sister Booth has been in the Armenian Mission five years. President Talmage visited Armenia and was amazed at the work they were doing. Down in South Africa, where Sister Sessions was in charge for seven years preceding the coming of Sister Martin, the work is in excellent condition. In the British Mission, over which I presided directly, we had fifty-nine branches. If you could see the struggles that some of these sisters make in order to do relief work, your hearts would go out to them in sympathy and blessing. I think I could safely say that 75% of them have to work outside their own homes to help support the families, and the meetings all have to be held in the evening. I think from one-third to one-half of our members are young girls, who, as young as fourteen, join and help. I have tried in every place to convey this message to the sisters, that they were not little isolated groups working alone, but part of this great sisterhood of women. I want to speak to you a few moments about the relationship of the Relief Society work to the missionary work?a problem of the greatest importance. When the missionaries go out they may know a great deal about the Mutual and are very willing to help in the Mutual work in the missions, but as a rule they know little more than the name of Relief Society, and they do not know anything about the wonderful work this organization is doing, unless they happen to come from homes where their mothers are presidents and officers. Let me tell you what happens to these young men when they go out in the field. Some of them have to take part in the activities of the branch; as branch president or district presidents, they have to look after all the affairs of the branch. They can make or mar a Relief Society. If they go there with the right attitude toward Relief Society work, they can give advice and counsel. All of our Relief Society officers are told they must work under the direction of the Priesthood. Some of these boys are only eighteen to twenty-one years of age. When there is a death, they have to work with the Relief Society sisters; they have to speak at the funerals. They have to work with the Relief Society people in trying to alleviate suffering and distress among the poor. They also give Relief Society lessons. I desire to thank my Heavenly Father again for the opportunity that was mine of knowing these excellent people in the world. I found some of the finest people I have ever met, living the gospel and helping to spread it, and I humbly pray for the continued success of the missionary work and the great Relief Society cause.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto?Charity Never Faileth
 Magazine  Vol XV JULY, 1928 No.