Is a College Education Necessary Today?
To men and women of foresight and wisdom there can be only one correct answer, an unqualified YES
Brigham Young University offers the student unsurpassed opportunities:
A Broad Curriculum covering the academic needs of most young people! A superior Faculty! Outstanding Library and Laboratory facilities! Special attention to Character Building! A rich Lyceum Series! A well planned Social Program! A Friendly atmosphere! A Beautiful college setting!
Academic work will in no way be restricted by the war. Enrollment, as usual, is open to all who are qualified.
Address your request for the 1943-44 catalogue to
The President Brigham Young University Provo, Utah
Autumn Quarter Begins October 1

"L. D. S. Training PAYS"
Day and EveningAll the Year......
Helping young people increase their chances for success  by multiplying their power to serve.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City

The BIBLE as LITERATURE
Beautiful, artistic recordings of the classics of Bible Literature, which can be played on any phonograph are available in the following albums:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone A) 3 Records...........$3.75 Five Psalms, including the Twenty-third, The Sermon on the Mount, The Lord's Prayer:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone B) 3 Records.........$3.75 David and Goliath, The Ten Commandments, Divine Promises
"Bible Readings Album" 5 Records..........$15.00 "Sweet Singer of Israel," "Comfort Ye My People," "Remember Now Thy Creator," "Job's Wisdom," "The Prodigal Son," "Charity," "The Resurrection"
All of these are recorded in models of beautiful English, beautifully read.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Intermountain Distributors for Linguaphone English and Foreign language recordings
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

WE NEED NOT REMIND YOU....
Of the necessity for conservationlooking to home needs of the future. For a hundred years, under the direction of inspired leadership, 'Mormon' women have led the world in preparingin times of plentyfor the lean months and years to come.
Nowmore than everthe need is urgent to preserve, for winter's use, the bounties of summer's harvest.