RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
THE table of accomplishment with respect to Relief Society Magazine campaigns during 1942 shows, in the middle of page 484, the eight stakes and two missions which procured subscriptions equal to or exceeding 75 per cent of their Relief Society members. These stakes and the Western States Mission were asked to send brief reports of methods used in achieving their high rates. The reports received are published herewith in the same order in which these stakes and mission are listed in the table, followed by one report from an additional stakeOakland.
Because of distance and time limitations, no report could be procured from the Australian Mission which stands at the head of all stakes and missions in the Church with a subscription rate of 122 per cent. This mission has had a consistently high rate during the past few years. June Cannon Orme is the mission Relief Society president and Violet Cook is the mission Magazine representative.
South Los Angeles Stake (California)
UNDER the direction of Stake Relief Society President Hazel Till NeVille, and her first counselor, Ruth Ryan, in charge of Magazine work, and Rosine Bauer, stake Magazine representative, the South Los Angeles Stake achieved a Magazine subscription rate of 102.5 per cent in 1942, exceeding its own excellent rate of 86 per cent of the year before. Following are excerpts from statements from these three leaders:
From Hazel T. NeVilleWe are indeed happy our stake was so willing and able to achieve our goal of 100 per cent of our enrollmentto procure 872 subscriptions as compared with a membership of 851. This was accomplished through the fine leadership of Sisters Ryan and Bauer, and our faithful ward representatives. No high pressure methods were used. It seemed every one concerned felt it was a work of love. We, as a stake, feel the Magazine is greatly needed at this time. We need to be buoyed up in spirit, and to be reassured that all things work together for good in the lives of those who serve the Lord. The strongest appeal in our Magazine work was the self-help concept. The point of attack was what the Magazine had to offer in opportunities for spiritual uplift and intellectual growth. We felt it was our opportunity to plant and make grow a testimony of the Master's work, to stimulate women to think, to read, to act. We want our Relief Society women to really live, to discover for themselves the great sustaining power of a strong religious faith. We are proud of our workers' accomplishment and feel sure the Magazine will inspire and direct the women of our stake for good.
From Counselor Ruth Ryan:
Goal Set First a goal was set"a Magazine for every member." Ward representatives and
Page 497
498
presidents met with us and agreed upon this goal.
Methods Used Special group assignments were carried out by means of names given to a group of women, each of whom was to call upon a number of homes and introduce Magazine. By this method one ward secured fifty new subscriptions.
Encouraging letters were sent out to the wards each month enclosing a self-addressed postcard to return as a report on ward activity.
Excerpt from Magazine given in Relief Society meeting once a month by a well-prepared person.
Two-and-one-half-minute talks on Sunday based on material in the Magazine, with no sales talk interjected.
Checked with ward clerk monthly on new people in the ward so that they could be approached.
Magazine left in the home for a brief time with articles marked that would attract reader's individual interest.
Attention to Magazine as a lovely gift.
Luncheons where Magazine representatives and ward presidencies met together to discuss ward problems and get complete outline of how to accomplish our goal.
Poster displayed.
Prize for most successful ward.
From Rosine Bauer, Magazine RepresentativeIn 1942, the month of June was selected as the month for a campaign. All new families were to be contacted in all the wards to obtain as many new subscriptions as possible. All officers and visiting teachers were asked to cooperate and give their support. There was a two-fold purpose in having this campaign in June: First, the new subscriber receives the July issue which contains the first lessons for the coming year; Second, a June campaign does not conflict with campaigns for other Church magazines.
Thorough instructions and helpful suggestions were given to ward Magazine representatives at special meetings and by means of mailed material. Great emphasis is given to the importance of following up promptly on renewals as they occur from month to month. It is realized that the united effort of stake and ward officers, as well as of the Magazine representatives,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
is essential to accomplishment of the established goal and that it is important for the Magazine representative to realize that the Magazine is a valuable spiritual, and temporal guide to its readers.
Gift subscriptions were received at The Relief Society Magazine office at Christmas time in 1942 from each of the thirteen officers and class leaders of the Walnut Park Ward of the South Los Angeles Stake. These were for Relief Society women in faraway places or missionaries.
San Diego Stake (California)
MARY McKAY CHRISTIANSEN, president of San Diego Stake Relief Society, whose first counselor, Carolyn Westover, also serves as stake Magazine representative, submitted the following report:
The degree of success attained by San Diego Stake in the Magazine campaign was due to the close cooperation of stake and ward representatives, checking on expirations as listed on the pink slips, monthly reports of progress, and frequent suggestions on methods of obtaining new subscriptions. Giving encouragement to representatives, and having them feel the importance of their position, gave stimulus to their efforts. When the stake preparation meeting was held at the beginning of the season's work, they were part of the group receiving instructions. A luncheon held between sessions, where they were especially honored for their achievements, was a fitting climax to a program given on the merits of the Magazine. The visiting teachers on their monthly calls have opened a way for subscriptions by drawing attention to articles printed in the Magazine and explaining the benefits and pleasure of having it in the home. With the added support of bishops and the cooperation of all Relief Society women, the Magazine campaign was brought to a successful close, which after all is only a challenge for bigger and better accomplishments. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) BIC HORN. STAKE of which Hulda M. Lynn is stake Relief Society president, is another stake which has maintained a high Magazine subscription rate for several years. Ann E. Gwynn, the stake Magazine representative, writes: Early in 1940, we divided our stake into two geographical sections, and called meetings at both places to which we invited the ward presidents and counselors, the ward Magazine representatives, and any others who would care to come. These meetings were in charge of our stake Magazine representative. 'The purpose was to instill into the minds of the sisters the need for the Magazine, and the benefit to them if they would study its contents. Our stake Relief Society president and all board members pledged themselves to help in every way they could, by taking more than one subscription and in other ways. This enthusiasm seemed to carry over to the ward presidents, their officers, and ward Magazine representatives, who in turn worked out ways and means to make it possible for the sisters to get the Magazine. We found that when we were all enlisted for the single purpose of selling our Magazine to the sisters, and with it our Relief Society work, that in unity there is strength, that our Heavenly Father did bless our efforts, as He will continue to do if we are humble and prayerful. Four wards of Big Horn Stake, Worland, Burlington, Kane, and Basin Branch sent gift subscriptions during 1942 to be distributed at the discretion of the Magazine office to missionaries or others in need of the Magazine. San Francisco Stake (California) LOUISE E. ARNSTEN, who serves both as secretary and Magazine representative of the San Francisco Stake, under direction of 499 Stake Relief Society President Esther D. Stephens, reports: Any success that we have had along this line was due particularly to the efforts put forth by our ward representatives. Our stake is a large one in distances covered. Some of our wards cover an area of 30 miles. Due to the restrictions placed upon travel in these days, I, as stake representative, have not been able to contact them personally, as we did formerly. During our intensive drive, which we hold from June fifteenth to July fifteenth each year, we meet together at one of the homes for a luncheon meeting. Here each of the ward representatives outlines her past methods as well as those she intends to employ during the current drive. Ideas are exchanged in this manner. I have always found that the ward representatives keep an accurate personal record of the subscriptions in their respective wards. Each of them has been very faithful in keeping in contact with her subscribers and sceing to it that subscriptions are renewed and kept up to date, as well as obtaining new ones. As has been mentioned before, they are lirnited as to travel facilities. Many of them are actively engaged in numerous activities outside their homes and Church now, such as Red Cross, and defense work, or at least some members of their immediate families are, all of which causes them to have less time than ever before. In spite of these handicaps, however, they are doing their work faithfully and well. We are very proud of the fact that Sister Josephine Danford of Sunset Ward was able to obtain 104 per cent. She, as well as all the representatives, made use of the telephone as well as personal visits to obtain subscriptions. What is of most value is that each of the representatives, herself, is enthusiastic. About the Magazine. 'They have all had the advantage of having it in their own homes for many years, and therefore realize its value, and are able to sell it to others. Union Stake (Oregon) HE following comment on the Magazine campaign in Union 500 Stake is from Mildred S. Snider, stake secretary-treasurer: We first attribute our success with the Magazine to the very high quality of the Magazine itself, which makes it very desirable to our members; next, to the diligence and untiring efforts of our ward representatives. From reports from our wards we find which are up on their quota, keep a record of the Magazines, and contact each subscriber a month preceding the expiration date. One of our outstanding representatives gave a few minutes' talk each month at work-andbusiness meeting on the most interesting articles in the current Magazine. All these methods helped to reach the goal. Ellen S. Bean is stake Relief Society president and Della Rees is stake Magazine representative. Cassia Stake (Idaho) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 SOCIETY MAGATINE ANE R. HALE, Cassia Stake jue Magazine representative, writes: The success of the Relief Society Magazine drive was attained through the interest and efforts of the ward Magazine representatives, also the support and cooperation of Relief Society officers and members. A thorough house-to-house canvass was made in each ward, and with a determination to teach a high percentage, the representatives worked constantly at the drive. The Magazine was also featured in ward Relief Society conferences by a special number on the program. Annie M. Mercer is Relief Society president of this stake. Western States Mission LUCEAL R. CURTIS, mission Relief Society president, writes as follows of methods for promoting Magazine subscriptions, both those which proved successful in 1942 and those planned for the 1943 campaign: When it was so apparent that transportation would be limited, that all forms of activity would be greatly curtailed, that more and more families would, of necessity become stay-at-homes, we took definite THERMOMETER CHART USED IN 1942 MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN STATES MISSION Branching from the central thermometer for the entire mission are thermometers of two paired mission districts, each with horizontal bars representative of its branch Relief Societies. Steps to follow the counsel given by the General Authorities, to place good reading material in the homes of the Latter-day Saints. We took as our slogan, "Every Relief Society member a Magazine subscriber and reader." To help us accomplish our project we employed the spirit of friendly competition and visual aids, as follows: NOTES FROM THE FIELD A large chart was prepared based on the thermometer idea, with a picture of a thermometer for each district and each Relief Society within each district in the Western States Mission. Each district was paired off to compete with a district of comparable size, and each Relief Society had a thermometer chart for the district to which it belonged as well as for the competing district. (The accompanying illustration shows the chart for one of these pairs of mission districts, with bars showing rates for each of the branches in these districts. The large chart for the entire mission was an extension of this diagram.) 'The progress made was marked up in red on the thermometer at the end of each two-week period, both on the master chart at the mission headquarters and on the individual charts. Frequent encouraging bulletins kept the mercury soaring. These charts were introduced at our annual Relief Society conferences in the various districts, and nearly all Magazine representatives were ready for the start on September 1. These charts were displayed prominently in the branch meeting places, with a list of the names of the women whose subscriptions had been entered. Husbands and children asked questions about the list and, as a result, many gift subscriptions were given to mothers, grandmothers, daughters, shut-ins, etc., in our mission. While we did not quite reach our goal of having 100 per cent of the Relief Society members subscribe for the Magazine, many branches went way over the 100 per cent mark and, as a result, 76 per cent of the Relief Society members in this mission are blessed with the Relief Society Magazine in their homes. We were working for a record because of the increased spirituality in the homes of our Latter-day Saints as this excellent material is made available. For the 1943 campaign, we have an alarm clock chart of which a mimeographed copy, with movable hands, will be on display in every branch Relief Society. (See accompanying illustration.) The large hand will point to the mission percentage and the short hand to the branch percentage. The alarm will ring the first day of September for all Western States Magazine representatives to start for another year to place 501 ITS ALARMING BUT ITS TRUE ITS TIME TO RENEW OR BUY A NEW RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ALARM CLOCK CHART FOR 1943 MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN IN WESTERN STATES MISSION Movable hands point to percentage of Magazine subscriptions in relation to membersthe short hand to the rate in the branch displaying the chart and the long hand to the rate for the entire mission. Choice literature in the homes of Relief Society members. We will try to gain the 100 per cent mark by midnight, November 30, 1943. We have set the date at November 30 so that we might get a complete report to the General Board by the last day of December. Weare sure that the fine groups of women in the Western States Mission, having tasted the benefits of last year's Magazine in their homes, will again respond to our Magazine goal. "Twice Blessed," a short skit used by the Western States Mission, in, connection with its 1942 Magazine campaign, is on file in the office of the General Board. Copies of this skit will be issued without charge to 502 Relief Societies requesting them. This skit demonstrates good methods of salesmanship and can be easily produced. Phoenix Stake (Arizona) MILDRED SMITHSON, Phoenix stake Magazine representative, reports: Our Relief Society Magazine campaign was held during the months of October and November. Plans and preparations for this drive were discussed at a luncheon and meeting held in my home. Those present were the presidents and Magazine representatives of each ward, Stake Relief Society President Mable Mortensen, and her counselors. As our theme we used Leah D. Widtsoe's statement, "The Relief Society Magazine is always a good companion for me and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring." We asked that each one carry this message to the members of the wards as they were visited. Sister Mortensen gave us a very inspiring and encouraging message. Each one present expressed her plans and intentions regarding her job. Many good ideas and suggestions were given to each other. At this meeting I became acquainted with the Magazine representatives for the first time. Since then, I have tried to keep in close touch with each one by telephone and visits. We took advantage of every opportunity to tell others about the Magazine and to encourage them to have it in their homes. I believe our success can be attributed to those sincere, steady, and energetic representatives who never overlooked an opportunity to renew a subscription or sell a new one. Bear Lake Stake (Idaho) AMY M. ATHAY, stake Relief Society president, and Gertrude R. Price, stake Magazine representative, jointly accounted for the success of the Magazine campaign in the Bear Lake Stake as follows: The good record of the Bear Lake Stake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943 in putting over the Magazine drive for 1942 was largely the result of the achievements of the two previous years. For, when a ward has once gone "over the top," pride in so doing helps much in the next year's campaign. Since union meetings were discontinued, where the Magazine department was held, other ways have been worked out for communicating with the ward Magazine representatives, although we all miss the union meetings. Some of the factors which have helped much are: correspondence, call by telephone, and personal visits by the stake. Magazine representative; in some wards, a complete canvass of the ward by the ward Magazine representative with regular followup work, especially checking of the slips sent out at the time of expiration of the Magazine subscriptions; the helpful, encouraging support of Relief Society ward presidents, who often get several subscriptions themselves; the dependable, untiring, enthusiastic ward Magazine representatives, the alert checking, kindly assistance and support of the Relief Society stake president, Magazine representative, and other stake officers, have all been effective; the appreciation for fine reading in the Magazine, the enjoyment of the lessons, the true spirit of Relief Society work manifest by the majority of our sisters helped us reach our goal. Oakland Stake (California) "VWVE Buy OUR Magazine to READ." Ruth S. Hilton, president of Oakland Stake Relief Society writes that this is the new slogan for this stake's Magazine publicity work. She continues: Various members of our stake board have prepared splendid short talks on various articles, editorials, or bits of verse appearing in the current issues and then we've found occasions where these talks would be given before groups of women. We hope that by stimulating the actual study of our Magazine and treasuring many of its finest messages, we will have no need to say very much about the subscription list. This list should take care of itself if we all read and read intelligently each issue, COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES NTERESTING comments from stake and ward Magazine representatives were published in the May issue of the Magazine, pages 353 and 354, preceding the honor roll. Here are two additional statements: From Los Angeles Stake Jen Sasine, Magazine representative of Arlington Ward, the only ward in the stake which appears on the honor roll, wrote after receipt of the May issue of the Magazine: I'd like to express my appreciation for having won a place on the honor roll in the May Magazine. For the past three years I have worked in the Relief Society, and this year was my first as Magazine representative. I have enjoyed my work very much because it gave me the opportunity of knowing the sisters in the ward much better. From Cache Stake Lettie B. Rich, Magazine representative of Cache Stake, sent the following comment which _highlights the enthusiasm and determined effort of the several hundred local Magazine representatives in the stakes and English-speaking missions of the Church: One of my Magazine representatives called today for material. I asked her how she was getting along. She replied, "Fine, I have a good pair of legs and a bike so I'm going to put my time to good advantage." That surely is the spirit that will carry us through. GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS THE largest gift subscriptions received during 1942 for distribution at the discretion of the Magazine office to those in need of the Magazine came from wards of the South Los Angeles and Big Hom Stakes, as already mentioned along with the preceding reports from those stakes. We acknowledge here other generous gift subscriptions received from the Littlefield Ward of the Moapa Stake, Farmington Ward of the South Davis Stake, and North 20th Ward of the Ensign Stake. These gift subscriptions have been received with great appreciation by those to whom they were sent, principally missionaries and officers of new mission branch Relief Societies who may not have been able to subscribe immediately themselves.  Magazine Promotion Work (Continued from page 496) "Selling," Edith Wilson, May 1939, page 332. Factors Contributing to Success In the Magazine Drive," Camille W. Halliday, August 1940, page 545. "Directing Magazine Activities Through the Union Meeting," Leone G. Layton, May 1941, pages 306-308. "Information for Relief Society Magazine Representatives," Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942, pages 555-556. Notes From the Field, Vera W. Pohlman, August 1942: "Relief Society Magazine Campaigns," pages 563-565. "Magazine Gift Subscriptions," pages 565-567. "Comments From Magazine Readers," pages 567-569.
COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES 503
Common Things
Elsie Sim Hansen
GRANDMA BAKER reached for the hot pad and slowly opened the oven door. The delicious aroma of newly baked bread flooded the room. Simultaneously the front door opened and closed with a bang. Things always happened with a bang, when Jimmie arrived.
"Gee! Grandmom, I just knew you would be baking bread."
"Now Jimmie, don't tell me you could smell this bread baking down at school."
"Not quite, but almost," laughed Jimmie.
Somehow, although Grandma Baker would not admit it, even to herself, this brown-eyed, tousle-headed grandson was a special favorite of hers. Jimmie realized this and there was a deep affection between them.
"Don't suppose you have a slice or two of that bread to spare?"
Despite the wishful tone of Jimmie's voice, Grandma was sure that the sparkle in his eyes was still there. They both knew it would not be many minutes before the desired bread would be in Jimmie's hands.
"Grandmom, why don't more people bake bread? I think it has the best smell in the whole world."
"Yes, Jimmie, I think you are right. There is just something about the smell of home-baked bread that makes a body hungry."
Grandma's thoughts began to wander. Yes, perhaps that was what was the matter with the world. It was hungry; not enough of the old
Page 504
things left, the common things, the friendly things that brought folks closer together.
Grandma's thoughts were quickly swept back to the present, as Jimmie started spreading the second slice of bread.
"Land sake, child, you won't want any dinner, eating all that bread."
"Oh yes I will, Grandmom. By the time I play ball over in the vacant lot for a couple of hours I'll be starved."
Then after a thoughtful pause, Jimmie continued. "Just think, Grandmom, all this nice bread and not a slice of it rationed. Bet there are a lot of kids who wish they had some."
Grandma smiled, and put her arm around the boyish shoulders. "I guess there are, Jimmie, we are fortunate. Have you ever stopped to think how many wonderful things there are in this world that are not rationed? The blue sky, the flowers, the birds, the trees, and the sparkling brooks? Our kind Father in Heaven created all these fine things and they are ours, free to enjoy, but few people take time to appreciate them."
"Miss Jeffry, our geography teacher, told us that the whole map of the world may be changed after the war, and that if we win, the whole world will be free like we are. We will win, won't we Grandmom?"
"Sure we will, Jimmie. This war is going to do a lot of harm, but it might do a lot of good also. It will make people realize that the best things in life are the common things."

Theology
Articles of Faith
Lesson 18The Gathering of Israel
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
(This is the second of five chapters that deal with Article 10)
Article 10: "We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes;..."
Lesson Aim: To show that through the mercy of the Lord, Israel is being gathered.
CONDENSATION OF CHAPTER 18, TALMAGE'S, ARTICLES OF FAITH
The Gathering Predicted
Dire as was the chastisement decreed on Israel for their waywardness, amounting as it did to their dissolution as a nation, wandering as outcasts among alien nations, who have never ceased to treat them with contumely and insult, they have been sustained by the sure word of promise that a day of glorious deliverance and blessed restoration awaits them.
The sufferings of Israel have been but necessary chastenings by a grieved yet loving Father, who planned by these effective means to purify His sin-stained children. Israel are not lost unto their God. In spite of their sin the Lord said: "And yet for all that, when they be in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them: for I am the Lord their God." (Lev. 26:44; see also Deut. 4:27-31)
As complete as was the scattering, so shall be the gathering of Israel.
Biblical Prophecies Concerning the Gathering
Among the early prophecies concerning the gathering of Israel we hear the Lord declaring that it shall come to pass that when thou, Israel, "shalt return unto the Lord thy God, and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day... Thou and thy children, with all thine heart, and with all thy soul; That then the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon thee, and will return and
Page 505
506
gather thee from all the nations, whither the Lord thy God hath scattered thee. If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and from thence will he fetch thee: And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers." (Deut. 30:2-5)
Isaiah spoke with no uncertain words of the assured return and reunion of scattered Israel. (Isaiah 11:11-13; 54:7-8)
Jeremiah also voiced the will and purpose of God concerning Israel's subsequent deliverance. (Jer. 16:12-16)
"Backsliding Israel," "treacherous Judah," are the terms of reproof with which the Lord addressed His recreant people. "Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord; for I am married unto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion." (See Jer. 3:12-18; also 23: 8; 25:34; 30:3; 32:37)
Ezekiel also declared the Lord's plan of Israel's restoration. (Ezek. 37:21-22; also 11:17; 20:34-42; 28:25; 34:11-13)
Amos clearly evidences that the reestablishment is to be permanent. (Amos 9:14:15)
Jesus of Nazareth also spoke of this important event: "And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Matt. 24:31)
Book of Mormon Prophecies
The gathering of Israel claimed the attention of many prophets whose teachings are recorded in the Book of Mormon. We have noted
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Lehi's discourse in the valley of Lemuel, in which that patriarch-prophet compared the house of Israel to an olive tree, the branches of which were to be broken off and scattered; now we may add his prediction regarding the subsequent grafting-in of the branches. (I Nephi 10:14; see also Jacob, Chap. 5.)
Nephi's predictions constitute some of the most comprehensive utterances concerning the restoration of the Jews. (1 Nephi 15:19-20; II Nephi 9:2; 25: 16-17, 20; also III Nephi 5:21-26; Chapter 29; Mormon 5:14)
It is evident from these and many other scriptures that the time of the full recovery or redemption of the Jews is to be determined by their acceptance of Christ as their Lord. When that time comes they are to be gathered to the land of their fathers; and in the work of gathering, the Gentiles are destined to take a great and honorable part. (II Nephi 10:7-9; 30:7; III Nephi 5:26; 20: 29-33; 21:21-27; Ether 13:8-10)
Latter-day Revelation Concerning the Gathering
Latter-day revelation concerning the gathering not only predicts the gathering of the saints to Zion, but announces that the hour for the gathering has come: "Wherefore, prepare ye, prepare ye, O my people; sanctify yourselves; gather ye together, O ye people of my Church.... Yea, verily I say unto you again, the time has come when the voice of the Lord is unto you: go ye out of Babylon; gather ye out from among the nations, from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." (Doctrine and Covenants 133:4, 7;
LESSON DEPARTMENT
29:7-8; 31:8; 33:6; 38:31; 45:25; 77: 14; 84:2)
Extent and Purpose of the Gathering
It is evident that the plan of gathering comprises:
1. Assembling in the land of Zion of the people of Israel from the nations of the earth.
2. Return of the Jews to Jerusalem.
3. Restoration of the Lost Tribes.
Moses, who was the representative of Israel's God when the Lord set His hand the first time to lead His people to the land of their appointed inheritance, came in person and committed to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the Ten Tribes from the land of the north." (Doctrine and Covenants 110:11)
Israel the Covenant People
The Lord has designated the people of Israel as especially His own. He covenanted with Abraham (Gen. 12:2, 3; 17:6-8; Gal. 3:14, 16), and confirmed the blessings upon Isaac
507
(Gen. 26:3-4) and in turn upon Jacob who was called Israel (Gen. 35: 11-12). And now in the day of gathering, the Lord is again bringing His people together to honor and bless them. The Redeemer was born in the flesh through the lineage of Abraham; and the blessings of that divine birth are extended to nations and every individual in mortality.
Restoration of the Lost Tribes
It is thought that while many of those belonging to the Ten Tribes were diffused among the nations, a sufficient number to justify the retention of the original name were led away as a body. Their exodus from the north to Zion is an important part of the gathering. (Doctrine and Covenants 133:26-34)
Note: Since the present location of the Lost Tribes has not been revealed, and there is a wealth of knowledge that has been revealed, it is deemed advisable that no discussions nor speculations be entered into concerning the present location of the Ten Tribes.
SUGGESTIONS FOR CLASS PROCEDURE
Suggested Songs
"Guide Us O Thou Great Jehovah," by Robert Robinson-Annie F. Harrison, Relief Society Songs, p. 23; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 184.
"O Ye Mountains High," by C. W. Penrose, Relief Society Songs, p. 12; Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 198; Latter-Day Saint Hymns, No. 19.
"Pilgrim Chorus," Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 270.
"Beautiful Mountain Home," by George Manwaring-A. C. Smyth, Deseret Sunday School Songs, p. 162.
The class leader should plan her lesson well in advance. Since passages of scripture from the Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine and Covenants are essential to a discussion of this lesson, the class leader might appoint, well in advance of the presentation of the lesson, three committees, each committee to be responsible for the reading of passages from one of these three books.
508
Each committee should not exceed three in number including the chairman. At the time the lesson is presented, committees should sit in front of the class, grouped according to the book assigned to them. As the lesson proceeds, the class leader should call on committee members for desired passages bearing on the phase of the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
lesson under discussion. This will impress upon class members that the standard works of the Church all deal with the important subject of the gathering of Israel.
Class members should be encouraged to bring their own books to class and as passages are read they should find them in their own books and follow the readings carefully.
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL
We have been gathered to the valleys of these mountains for the express purpose of purifying ourselves, that we may become polished stones in the temple of God. We are here for the purpose of establishing the Kingdom of God on the earth. To be prepared for this work it has been necessary to gather us out from the nations and countries of the world, for if we had remained in those lands we could not have received the ordinances of the holy Priesthood of the Son of God, which are necessary for the perfection of the Saints preparatory to his coming. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, page 186)
The Jews and JerusalemJerusalem is not to be redeemed by our going there and preaching to the inhabitants. It will be redeemed by the high hand of the Almighty. It will be given into the possession of the ancient Israelites by the power of God, and by the pouring out of his judgments. Jerusalem is not to be redeemed by the soft, still voice of the preacher of the Gospel of peace. Why? Because they were once the blessed of the Lord, the chosen of the Lord, the promised seed. They were the people from among whom should spring the Messiah; and salvation could be found only through that people. The Messiah came through them, and they killed him; and they will be the last of all the seed of Abraham to have the privilege of receiving the New and Everlasting Covenant. You may hand out to them gold, you may feed and clothe them, but it is impossible to convert the Jews, until the Lord God Almighty does it. By and by the Jews will be gathered to the land of their fathers, and the ten tribes, who wandered into the north, will be gathered home and the blood of Ephraim, the second son of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, which is to be found in every kingdom and nation under heaven, will be gathered from among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles who will receive and adhere to the principles of the Gospel will be adopted and initiated into the family of Father Abraham, and Jesus will reign over his own and Satan will reign over his own. (Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, pages 186-187)
In speaking of the gathering, we mean to be understood as speaking of it according to scripture, the gathering of the elect of the Lord out of every nation on earth, and bringing them to the place of the Lord of Hosts, when the city of righteousness shall be built, and where the people shall be of one heart and one mind, when the Savior comes; yea, where the people shall walk with God like Enoch, and be free from sin. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 93.)
The greatest temporal and spiritual blessings which always come from faithfulness and concerted effort, never attend individual exertion or enterprise. The history of all past ages abundantly attests this fact. In addition to all temporal blessings, there is no other way for the Saints to be saved in these last days, (than by the gathering) as the concurrent testimony of all the holy prophets clearly proves, for it is written"They shall come from the east, and be gathered from the west; the north shall give up, and the south shall
LESSON DEPARTMENT
keep not back." "The sons of God shall be gathered from afar, and his daughters from the ends of the earth." It is also the concurrent testimony of all the prophets, that this gathering together of all the Saints, must take place before the Lord comes to "take vengeance upon the ungodly," and "to be glorified and ad-
509
mired by all those who obey the Gospel." The fiftieth Psalm, from the first to the fifth verse inclusive describes the glory and majesty of that event. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, 1938, page 183)

Visiting Teachers
Messages to the Home
Sources of Strength
Lesson 2Ordered Living
Tuesday, November 2, 1943
TO live affirmatively, purposefully, abundantly, is possible for each of us, and to do it is a major achievement. To fill one's days with useful work, to do well the task immediately in front of one is to be happy now and to make secure the future. A well-ordered life is free from lost time, lost motion, desultory effort, and needless worry. Plan your work and work your plan, is a good motto. Well-organized, effective work is the panacea for most of the ills of life.
Benjamin Franklin, one of the wisest and greatest Americans, followed consistently and successfully what he called "the scheme of employment for the twenty-four hours of a natural day." His day was well-balanced and perfectly organized. He had rest, recreation, and work. In the morning he asked this question: "What good shall I do this day?"; and in the evening, this question: "What good have I done this day?" He lived a long and useful life and made a better contribution to the time in which he lived and to his country than almost any other man. He is one of the best examples in history of a self-made man.
One of the secrets of really great living is having ideals and standards and then living up to them. When we cherish lofty ideals and strive heroically to attain them, we are made both strong and happy. What we become depends in no small measure upon our ideals. We unconsciously approach the ideals which we love and cherish.
Latter-day Saint women should exemplify the noblest womanhood, because they are the products of the ideals and standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They should be models of the finest motherhood, subscribing to the highest standards of Christian living. They should evidence a willingness to devote their lives to the service of others, and should be a constant source of encouragement and inspiration to those about them.
510
The doctrine of eternal progression, as taught by the Latter-day Saints, should make us a great people. The knowledge that we lived before we were born and that we will live after we die, that we came here to be trained for a higher and better world, carries with it an impelling motive to noble endeavor that should register in the life and conduct of each of us.
Discussion
1. What is your concept of a well-ordered life?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
2. What are the essentials of good living that should be included in one's plan of life?
3. Why are standards and ideals important?
References
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, edition 1938, pp. 53, 255-256
Relief Society Magazine, July 1941, p. 467
Discourses of Brigham Young, edition 1925, p. 329, paragraph 2

Home Topics
For optional use on Work-and-Business Day
Modern Housekeeping Methods
Lesson 2Tools for Housecleaning Tasks
(Care and Storage)
Tuesday, November 9, 1943
HOUSEKEEPING is highly interesting and important work. Housecleaning can be brisk, efficient, and stimulating or it can be grim and time-consuming. Much depends on the tools at hand. The more efficient the tools, the faster the work. And, naturally, the results will be better, too.
Important items of cleaning equipment and materials include:*
Vacuum cleaner and attachments Carpet sweeper Applicator for floor wax Corn or fibre broom dust mop wet mop (string or cellulose sponge) scrubbing brush (long handle preferred) dust pan (long handle preferred) toilet-bowl brush Whisk broom or upholstery brush 2-4 treated dust cloths (combine 1 pint hot water and  cup lemon oil. Dip cheesecloth squares into solution. Press solution through cloth thoroughly; squeeze out excess moisture and then dry thoroughly) 6 cheesecloth squares (24" by 24") 2 flannel polishing cloths
*For a more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, pp. 140-142. We must remember that this list represents the ideal, and many items are not obtainable at present due to the war.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
3 cellulose sponges (for kitchen, washroom, and cleaning basket) 2 floor cloths (for kitchen and bathroom) Silver polish Wax (paste, liquid or self-polishing) Lemon oil Mild scouring powder or whiting Toilet-bowl cleaner Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Household disinfectant Mild soap (chips, flakes, beads, grains) Paint cleaner
Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care. A vacuum cleaner lags on the job when the dust bag is clogged with dirt; a soiled duster or mop is little better than none at all; and a carpet sweeper can't pick up surface dirt if its brush is snarled with lint and hair, if the dust pans are filled to overflowing, or if the bristles are worn too short to touch the carpet. A few minutes a day spent in cleaning and caring for equipment will pay good dividends in service.
Cleaning Basket
A small inexpensive open market basket with a handle makes an excellent cleaning basket which can be carried from room to room quite easily. A fitted oilcloth lining with pockets to hold small objects is easy to make, and helps to keep the basket in order. With a cleaning basket there will be no need for hurried trips back to the source of supply for forgotten items.
Check the contents with the following list before you start your cleaning program:*
Whisk broom or upholstery brush (for brushing draperies and upholstery) 1 treated dust cloth (for daily dusting) 2 cheesecloth squares (for washing and drying woodwork)
511
Cotton waste (for applying polishes and cleaners) 1 flannel polishing cloth (for rubbing or polishing) 1 cellulose sponge (for washing woodwork, walls, etc.) Art gum eraser (for removing soiled spots from walls or from lamp shades) Furniture polish or lemon oil or wax Mild scouring powder or whiting Carbon tetrachloride (dry cleaner) Scissors
One item that is generally overlooked in both house plans and apartment layouts is space to store cleaning equipment. Mops and brooms behind doors, the vacuum cleaner in the hall closet, dusters and polishing cloths tucked away in odd cornerssuch haphazard storage is the general rule, even though it means hundreds of extra steps and a great deal of petty annoyance. Perhaps you have always accepted this state of affairs, with definite irritation to be sure, but have never actually given much thought to a satisfactory solution.
A careful study of floor and wall space will lead to ideas no matter how hopeless the situation may seem at first glance. On page 138 in our textbook, America's Housekeeping Book, you will find a good illustration of what can be done if you can find wall space 29 inches wide and 78 inches high, plus one shelf and one drawer in another location. This is not ideal, but it is a great improvement over half a dozen storage places. If you can find a corner space, so much the better. On page 139 of the textbook is shown an ideal storage closet for cleaning equipment which you may be able to build in some unused space.
*For more complete list, see America's Housekeeping Book, p. 142.
512
Often there is an extra clothes closet on the first floor which is used for haphazard storage and which might well be transformed into an adequate cleaning closet. Closets can be made convenient through the addition of shelves, racks, drawers, and partitions at very little expense. Shallow shelves down one side, a shelf running the width of the closet within easy reach, clips for holding brooms, mops, etc. on the remaining wall space, on the door a shoe bag with pockets for holding dusters, floor space for the vacuum cleaner, carpet sweeper and pailand you have an orderly, efficient cleaning closet.
Of course problems vary. Each homemaker must face her problem and work it out according to her circumstances. However, if you can find any space at all, you can with a little patience work out a satisfactory storage place. Be sure to place the tools that are used most often in the most accessible positions.
An hour or so spent in planning and working
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
out storage space will be worth your while. "A place for everything and everything in its place," is a first principle of law and order. Storage space that is both adequate and convenient, contributes a great deal to the efficiency of the homemaker.
Questions for Discussion
1. Discuss: "Cleaning tools are good servants only when they receive proper care." (Example: vacuum cleaner, dusters, carpet sweepers, etc.)
2. What method have you used to successfully store household tools? In the light of the class discussion can you see room for improvement?
3. To save time and energy, what method do you use for assembling tools and cleaning supplies in the room to be cleaned?
4. A practical demonstration on the use and care of one or two specific cleaning tools might be interesting and helpful.
Reference
America's Housekeeping Book, Chap. 21, p. 131

Literature
The Bible as Literature
Lesson 2The Bible Epic
Tuesday, November 16, 1943
EPIC and story in earlier times carried essentially the same meaning. Like lyric and song, the two words were practically synonymous. Through the long years, however, the term epic has acquired a more expansive meaning. As commonly used today, epic implies a composite story, with each part helping to develop the larger tale. Often the story group centers in some hero: as in the Odyssey, which depicts the adventures of Odysseus; or in Hiawatha, which portrays the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
life story of a great Indian leader. Sometimes the epic deals with a distinctive phase of tribal or national life. Whatever its nature, however, it is made up of various stories, set together as spokes in a hub, or links in a chain, to effect the central purpose.
A number of such "story cycles" or story groups are to be found in the Bible. At the beginning of Genesis, for example, is the epic-like Story of Creation. Following this, comes another story group dealing with the Deluge and its sequences. In another closely linked series of stories, the Patriarchal period is portrayed. Exodus opens the great epic of Moses. Around this leader, story after story is given to portray not only his life, but also the people whom he led out of bondage; and the development, during their wanderings, of a theocratic nation intent on the repossession of a "Promised Land." After this comes another story series dealing with the conquest of Canaan under Joshua, and the varied fortunes of that realm under the leadership of different warrior chieftains, called Judges.
Yet another story group, epic in its spirit and sweep, portrays the rise of the kingdom of Israel. David, the shepherd boy, plays the leading role in this story cycle. Other interesting characters also have important parts; and many intriguing dramatic situations arise as the composite story develops.
This epic begins with a pastorala simple tale of devotion and romance set amid scenes of country lifethe story of Ruth. Most folk know this girl of old Moab as a faithful daughter-in-law, who, bereft of her
513
young Hebrew husband, clings to his mother and his religion. An oft-quoted passage from the Bible, Ruth's lyric plea to her mother-in-law, who has advised the girl to remain in Moab, begins:
Entreat me not to leave thee, Or to return from following after thee: For whither thou goest, I will go; And where thou lodgest, I will lodge; Thy people shall be my people, And thy God my God. (Ruth 1:16)
It was not the literary charm of this classic story, however, that won for it the place of importance it holds in the Bible. It is there primarily because its heroine, Ruth, through her marriage with Boaz, became the ancestress of kings. The story opens an epic that still vibrates through all the world, a story that reaches from Ruth, through David, down to Mary and her divine Son, the Savior of Mankind. Read in this light, the story takes on new meaning.
Another charming mother-tale that weaves into this epic of Israel's kings is the story of Hannah and her little son, Samuel. This pure child, given to the temple, not only helps to keep God's house a holy place; but he rises to be a maker of kings. When the people, harassed by their enemies, clamor for a king, the Prophet Samuel at first denies their plea. But as they persist, he prays to the Lord for guidance, and the Lord tells Samuel, "Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me that I should not rule over them." And Samuel, warning that the king will take away their sons and daughters for soldiers and handmaidens,
514
deprive them of lands and substance, and burden them with taxes, finally gives them a king.
Troubles, as the foolish folk were forewarned, begin to multiply. Saul, chosen largely because of princely bearing to be the first king of Israel, fails. He is more of a soldier than a saint. He assumes authority that belongs to the priesthood, and receives sharp warning from Samuel in the unforgettable words: "To obey is better than sacrifice." (I Samuel 15:22)
Meantime, David, the shepherd boy, through slaying Goliath, has won high favor with Saul. A deep friendship ripens between the youth and the king's son, Jonathan. Saul's daughter is given in marriage to David, then comes cankering jealousy in the heart of Saul. He forgets the source of real power, and seeks strange spirits. Samuel, meantime, instructed by the Lord, secretly anoints David king; but David, out of respect for God's anointed other king, will not assume the throne. Finally, Saul and Jonathan fall in battle, and the young warrior becomes king and builder of a greater kingdom of Israel, laying the foundation for his son Solomon to reign in all his glory.
Dramatic situations, crises and tragedies come to David. He sins and is severely rebuked by Nathan, the courageous prophet, for God is no respecter of persons. Yet David, unlike Saul, repents, and is permitted to carry forward, though not without punishment, to the close of his constructive reign.
These are but a few hints of this great Biblical epic. It rises to high literary qualities, moving with clar-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
ity and force from beginning to close. Lyrical expressions add to its beauty in places; and lessons of life are concretely, impressively, portrayed. To feel its power and its artistry, however, one must read and reread the masterful story.
Discussion and Activities
Select as many as can be treated profitably in the allotted time.
1. Name three or more individual stories that are woven together to make the epic-like story of the Patriarchs of Israel. (See Genesis, Chapters 12 to 50.)
2. What are the values to come from studying each individual story in its relation to the whole epic?
3. Read aloud the first chapter of Ruth. What do you observe as to the story movement, the life-giving expressions, the music of the lines?
4. (a) Why is this story properly placed between Judges and Kings? (b) What is the vital relationship that links Ruth with Mary, the mother of our Savior?
5. Select from the epic of Saul and David some story of dramatic appeal. Read aloud passages which carry the loftiness and the sweep characteristic of epic literature. See I Samuel 21: 6-11.
6. What vital lesson did Thomas Paine find in the story of Samuel, and use in his essay "Common Sense" to help stir our forefathers in their fight for freedom?
7. Give a quotation from this epic of the Kings of Israel that has impressed on you a fundamental life lesson or religious truth.
8. What individual story in the epic is a favorite with children? Test your answer by reading the story to some of your children, grandchildren or little friends.
Text
Bible, King James Translation
References
See References, Relief Society Magazine, June-July 1943, pp. 442-443.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 515

Social Science
What "America" Means
Lesson 9American Statesmen (Continued)
Tuesday, November 23, 1943
"As are the leading men of the State, such is the State."Cicero.
(With this short sentence, Cicero, a Roman orator who lived at the time of Christ, began one of his orations. He declared as citizens are good, so will government be good. Government grows out of the lives of people who inaugurate laws.)
IN two short lessons on "American Statesmen," this and the preceding lesson, we can only suggest a few of the outstanding men who have made contributions to our ideals of freedom and democracy. The men we have chosen for brief study took an active part in solving political problems that arose in our country. The men whom we will consider in this lesson are John Marshall, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln, Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson, all of whom made important contributions to American political thought. Four of these men, Abraham Lincoln, Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson, became presidents of the United States. John Marshall was the greatest legal light that ever sat in the Supreme Court, and the other three, Webster, Calhoun, and Clay, composed the triumvirate who led the debates on important questions in the Congress of the United States previous to the Civil War.
ONE of the most outstanding characters of the American bar was John Marshall, the first Chief Justice of the United States. He was also an historian, soldier of the American Revolution, and an envoy at one time to England. Born in Virginia in 1755, he became of age two months after the Declaration of Independence was adopted, and took part in two of the principal campaigns of the American Revolution. He experienced the sufferings at Valley Forge during the winter of 1777-78. After the war, he began the practice of law, having taken lectures on law at William and Mary College in his native state. He gained distinction and was a member of the State Legislature of Virginia for many terms. In January 1801, he was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States where he did his noblest service to the nation. You will recall that it is the Supreme Court of the land that interprets the meaning of the Constitution when great cases of law are involved. In the first major case presented to him, he pro-
516
claimed the final right of the judiciary to pass on the constitutionality of every act of Congress. This is why we call the judiciary of our Government the law-interpreting power. Marshall was noted for his simple ways of living, his honesty, and steadfastness to right. A lady said at his funeral: "His great humility was the most impressive thing about his character." One of the most dramatic decisions handed down by Marshall was that of the Dartmouth College case in which Daniel Webster took part in defending his own Alma Mater. The Dartmouth College case grew out of the question as to whether or not the State Legislature of New Hampshire had the right to rescind the original charter granted in England in 1754.
MANY a boy and girl has learned parts of the orations of Daniel Webster. Daniel Webster was among the greatest orators of his day, and served as United States senator from the state of Massachusetts for thirty years. His most noted opponents in the United States were John C. Calhoun of South Carolina and Robert Treat Hayne from the same state. Both Calhoun and Hayne opposed the policies of Webster in some of the most noted speeches ever made in the Senate. The questions at issue were that of States Rights, the protective tariff, and Negro slavery. The South had from the first stood for States Rights or the doctrine that a state has certain sovereign powers over that of the National Government. The South opposed a high protective tariff on the ground that a tariff did not protect the agricultural
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
interests in that section. Slavery had grown up in the South as an institution which was needed for the raising of cotton and tobacco. Webster was in favor of a high protective tariff, and was opposed to the doctrine of States Rights, and Negro slavery.
The great compromiser of those days was Henry Clay, one of the ablest lawyers and statesmen of that day. He was the chief supporter of the Missouri Compromise. This was in 1819, when a long and bitter struggle took place between the proslavery and anti-slavery parties over the admission of Missouri into the Union. Clay was the author of the Compromise which admitted Missouri on a slavery basis. His greatest compromise measure was that of 1850, which no doubt postponed the Civil War for ten years. This compromise grew out of the question as to whether or not California, and other western areas including Utah, should be admitted to the Union as states. Calhoun proposed that they become slave states, while Clay advocated the doctrine of allowing the people to decide for themselves. California was admitted as a free state, and while the Latter-day Saints in Utah asked for statehood under the name of the State of Deseret, it was denied and Congress organized Utah Territory. Brigham Young was made its first governor.
WEBSTER, Calhoun, and Clay died in the early part of the decade beginning in 1850, and they left the country in unusual ferment. How to describe the social, political, and economic conditions in a few words up to the time of the Civil War would be a difficult thing to do.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
James Truslow Adams, the eminent American historian has written:
During the decade between 1850 and 1860, the American people had been forced by circumstances to meet great political differences. The South had suddenly, due to the inventions of the North and of England, found itself one of the richest and most important economic sections of the earth. Its prosperity depended on its slave-grown cotton. Yet the world had increasingly demanded that the South should rid itself of slavery, though it could offer no suggestion as to how to do so. The South was forced into a position of defence, which meant expansion, and this forced the South more and more out of the main currents of the modern world. Men knew that a crisis would come some day that would threaten the very life of the Nation.
With the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860, that crisis came. With the secession of the Southern States in 1860-61, the great Civil War was precipitated, the results of which left the South in a ruined condition. On January 1, 1863, Lincoln issued his formal proclamation. That the slaves in the states that were in rebellion should be free. This was a terrific blow to the economic, social, and political life of the South.
To understand Lincoln's feelings during the Civil War it is best to read his First Inaugural Address, given March 4, 1861, and his Second Inaugural which was even more striking in its sustained emotion: "... Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray..." "With malice toward none...." The soul of Lincoln was in what he said. One thing which made Lincoln a great statesman was the fact that he learned how to speak the truth. He loved truth more than he loved position or anything else in
517
the world. His power over men lay in his profound sincerity. When the war was over, his reconstruction policy was foreshadowed in his own words: "If we are wise and discreet, we shall reanimate the states and get their governments in successful operation.... I hope there will be no persecution, no bloody work after the war is over." His larger ideals of Americanism are seen in his Gettysburg address, delivered November 19, 1863. (See American Citizens Handbook, p. 245.)
From the death of Lincoln to World War I, America grew in wealth and influence among the nations of the world. A new age was born. Millions of foreigners came to our shores, becoming good American citizens. America has been developing the lofty ideals of its founders, for the people are naturally religious and have, as Frederick Harrison says, "kept alive the zeal for learning, justice, and humanity." No nation of all history has developed the institutions of civilization as has America; no other nation has held more sacred the democratic institutions and the faith and belief in the Christian religion.
Since Lincoln's day, America has had great and wise statesmen, all of whom have played their parts in preserving our Government with its high ideals. They have added to its renown; they have been men who have stood for the sacredness of the Constitution and the highest principles of government. In closing, we name three of the statesmen of these years: Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson.
518
Questions and Suggestions for Study or Reports
In discussing this lesson on the statesmen, you may not agree with the author in his selection of the great statesmen of our country. Every American has his own favorites, and his opinion is respected, as he in turn respects the opinions of others. This right of preference is part of our American rights.
1. Find out from some good American history something additional about the lives of the following men: John
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Marshall, Daniel Webster, John C. Calhoun, Henry Clay, and Abraham Lincoln. Find out something about Grover Cleveland, Wm. McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson.
2. Can you explain the causes of the Civil War?
3. What two great generals came to the front in that war?
4. Brigham Young was a great statesman. Why? Daniel H. Wells was also a great statesman. Find out something about his life.

Stories from the Book of Mormon
For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science.
Lesson 2Lehi's Travels to the New World
Tuesday, November 23, 1943
Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and the members of the class have at hand the Book of Mormon.
Lesson Objective: To show that belief in God is best evidenced by a willingness to serve and obey Him.
In carrying forward the lessons under the title Stories from the Book of Mormon much can be gained by a study of the leading characters of this sacred record. One such character was Lehi. The history of a great nation was dependent upon his willingness to obey the will of God.
He first appears upon the Book of Mormon scene as a righteous man who lived 600 years before the birth of the Savior, in the city of Jerusalem. This great city, this royal city, was ruled then by King Zedekiah whose kingdom was that of Judah. In name, Jerusalem was holy, for there had been built the Temple of the Lord. "Its busy streets were crowded with a mixed multitude. Priests and Levites who officiated in the ordinances of the law of Moses, worshipers from the other tribes of Jacob, warriors of the armies of Judah, courtiers and attendants on the king, the merchants from Egypt, from Tyre and Sidon and from many other parts, artificers in various trades, all these combined to make it wealthy and renowned, a busy mart of trade, a center of civilization...." (Story of the Book of Mormon, pp. 20-22, by George Reynolds.)
Lehi, his heart not being set upon the riches of the world, looked with
LESSON DEPARTMENT
unconcern upon the great treasures and fine adornments which had been brought to beautify the homes and great public buildings of this chief city in all Israel. People, he could see, because of their riches had forgotten the Lord. The prophets who came to warn were persecuted and sent away. Riotous living was sought after, and care or concern for the commandments of God brushed aside.
Knowing the wrath of God, Lehi yearned to know His will as to the fate of this people. He was told that Jerusalem would be destroyed because of the iniquity of her inhabitants, and that many of her people would be carried off into captivity. Further did the Lord instruct him, that he too should go and warn the city of the disasters that would shortly come unless the people would repent. This Lehi did, only to meet with the same persecution as did other prophets before him. But because of Lehi's faithfulness the Lord spoke unto him in a dream saying: "Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee, behold, they seek to take away thy life." "And it came to pass," continues Lehi's son Nephi, "that the Lord commanded my father, even in a dream, that he should take his famiy and depart into the wilderness. And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him. And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, 519 and took nothing with him save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the wilderness." (I Nephi 2:2-4) Lehi's belief in the word of God was not a passive one. He put into practice the counsels of the Lord by showing a willingness to forsake all earthly things for the greater values of the spirit. With but enough provisions to sustain 'life, he took his family and traveled to the borders of the Red Sea. (Reynolds) In company with him was his wife Sariah, and also his sons Laman, Lemuel, Sam, and Nephi. Other children are mentioned later, some of whom were born in the wilderness. Nephi, by nature a sweet and willing boy in following his father's wishes, soon found favor in the sight of God. Not long after finding a home in the wilderness for his family, Lehi again had a dream which he revealed to his son Nephi, saying: "Behold I have dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem. For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a genealogy of thy forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass. Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records, and bring them down hither into the wilderness. And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing which I have required of them; but behold I] have not required it of them, but it is a commandment of the Lord. Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord, because thou hast not murmured." (I Nephi 3: 2-6)
520
It is mainly through the faithfulness and obedience of Nephi that the record of the Jews was obtained from Laban, which made it possible for Lehi and his family to have the word of God, for which, writes Nephi, did his father thank the God of Israel. Lehi knew that with God's word the nation to follow him should not dwindle and perish in unbelief. (I Nephi 4:13)
For purposes of this lesson which deals with the character of Lehi, it is necessary to omit many interesting details that happened to this man, his family, and Ishmael's family, as they traveled through the wilderness and over the ocean to the land of promise, a land choice above all other landsthe Americas. The highlights of this journey include the struggles that Lehi and his younger son Nephi had in keeping the spirit of humility present in the hearts of Laman and Lemuel. These sons found it difficult not to harden their hearts against God. It was mainly because of the rebellious acts of these brothers that the traveling, the building of a ship, the voyage across the great waters, and the need for cooperative living in the land of promise were made more difficult for Lehi. Much time and energy was lost in the corrections and rebukes which he frequently was called upon to administer to these two wayward sons.
Yet it was in these strivings toward the right that Lehi's character and steadfast faith took root and developed. His was a faith that resulted in worksa willingness of spirit that showed his belief in God through service. It was in this service that many of the plain and precious truths of the Gospel were explained in the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
words of counsel which he gave his family. Because of the sweetness of his spirit, and because of the deep parental love he had for his own, he poured out his soul in words of earnest hope, relating again and again the dreams he had known through the grace of the Lord. No finer sermon has ever been preached than that to be found in I Nephi, chapter 8, entitled, "The dream of the tree, the river, and the rod of iron."
Answers to questions such as these which follow are made plain by Lehi's words describing his dream: Why are many people quick to see that faith, repentance, and baptism are the steps one takes to become a member of Christ's church, and yet why do so many fail to act upon their beliefs? Why are the great multitudes of men and women unable to understand the will of God?
After a brief class discussion of these questions have I Nephi, chapter 8, read. For further interpretation of Lehi's dream read also I Nephi 15:25-36.
Questions for Active Reading and Discussion
With the help of other suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the passage given to discover plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light in the Book of Mormon. If time permits, have each member of the class add a passage of his own selection from within that part of the Book of Mormon (I Nephi, and II Nephi, chapters 1 to 4) that tells of the life and words of Lehia passage that has brought new meaning to a Gospel truth.
1. Lehi and his seed were promised the land of America for their inheritance. He and his family worked hard to
LESSON DEPARTMENT
realize this promise. America has ever demanded sacrifice from those who would seek its shores. Why? Read II Nephi 1:1-11.
The next question may be used if needed
521
for class activity, or it may be assigned for home study.
2. Why has God permitted joy and misery, and good and sin to be in this world? Read Lehi's explanation of "opposition in all things" to his son Jacob. (II Nephi, chapter 2.)

The Princess (Continued from page 480)
lately. Right after the baby came John broke his leg so we've had doctor bills to pay. When the children are asleep, we let the fire go out. The clothes don't dry much till John makes the fire in the morning."
Still Lois could think of nothing to say.
"And then, you see, I have to iron them before Robin can get up." She closed the ashpit door with her foot and sat down. "I guess I'm fussybut I'm afraid of damp clothes. Robin has never been very strong."
Suddenly Lois felt dazed and weak. She wondered if she would be able to stand. Her one desire was to get up and rush out. At last she said in a meek, low tone, "I see. Don't worry about it." She got to her feet. "It doesn't matter if he is late. I'm sorry I made him feel bad today." She stopped because she could not keep her voice steady.
Mrs. Marshall got up too. She said, "Robin is so happy in school. He loves you. He tells me all about your pretty clothes, even the color of your handkerchiefs. John and I sometimes tease him by calling you 'The Princess.'" Then she looked a little embarrassed. "Only in fun, you know. We think the public school is the greatest thing in the world. It gives our child everything."
"No," Lois said, shaking her head. "No," more firmly, "It couldn't give him his sweet smile. You are the one who gave him that. And the schools couldn't do much either without homes like yours to back them up. It's people like you that have made America great."
She took hold of the doorknob, then turned back to Mrs. Marshall. Touching the baby's cheek lightly with her finger, she looked up suddenly into the mother's eyes, her own swimming. "And I think you have everything too," she said. "Everything a woman wants most."
Hastily she went out, closing the door softly. "Oh, God!" she prayed. "Make me worthy to be their Princess."

Short-story Article to Appear in September Issue
The concluding article on short-story writing by Pearl Spencer which was scheduled to appear in the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine (see announcement June-July Magazine, page 394) will appear in the September issue of the Magazine.
522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAUGUST 1943
Train Up A Child in the Way He Should Go (Continued from page 473)
thorities, the absence of card playing, and the paying of an honest tithing, picturing the blessings which may be inherited through marriage in a temple for time and all eternity, and demonstrating the joy of having a family. Attending Church meetings together, singing songs together, playing wholesome games together, and reading the scriptures together, will also help to mold an entire family into a righteous pattern.
Perhaps one of the greatest causes for concern on the part of the mother in this day is the proper guarding of her daughter at nighttime. Teenage girls should always be properly supervised when outside the home in the late evening and night, whether they are returning from Mutual or a party. How few of our present delinquency problems would exist if young girls were kept close to the family circle and more attractive recreation were offered them within the home. This is a parental responsibility which mothers, more than fathers, should undertake to provide.
As mothers of Zion, let us awaken to the responsibilities resting upon us today. Remember the admonition of Solomon, the wisest man of his time, "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." No joy in the world is comparable to that experienced by parents whose children love the Lord and manifest it by living in accordance with the law of the Lord. No care, no solicitude, no attention, and no sacrifice that a mother makes in order to train up her child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord will ever be wasted. The riches of eternity are for such as these.M. C. S.

SPECIAL NOTICE TO MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES AND SUBSCRIBERS
ALL large cities are now adopting zone numbers as part of the regular mailing address, and The Relief Society Magazine must hereafter be so addressed to all subscribers affected by this ruling. Therefore, when sending in new or renewal subscriptions, subscribers and Magazine representatives are urged to include the correct zone numeral along with the name of the city with respect to every subscription. Subscriptions not so designated cannot be handled in the Magazine office until the required information is obtained.
MAGAZINE APPRECIATION
"I AM a man 25 years oldto be married next month. Of all the monthly publications, we will plan to have The Relief Society Magazine in our home always. Not alone because of the fine material presented pertinent to the L. D. S. Women, homemaking, etc., but also because I thoroughly enjoy reading the splendid articles which are published by your organization."

Is a College Education Necessary Today?
To men and women of foresight and wisdom there can be only one correct answer, an unqualified YES
Brigham Young University offers the student unsurpassed opportunities:
A Broad Curriculum covering the academic needs of most young people! A superior Faculty! Outstanding Library and Laboratory facilities! Special attention to Character Building! A rich Lyceum Series! A well planned Social Program! A Friendly atmosphere! A Beautiful college setting!
Academic work will in no way be restricted by the war. Enrollment, as usual, is open to all who are qualified.
Address your request for the 1943-44 catalogue to
The President Brigham Young University Provo, Utah
Autumn Quarter Begins October 1

"L. D. S. Training PAYS"
Day and EveningAll the Year......
Helping young people increase their chances for success  by multiplying their power to serve.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City

The BIBLE as LITERATURE
Beautiful, artistic recordings of the classics of Bible Literature, which can be played on any phonograph are available in the following albums:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone A) 3 Records...........$3.75 Five Psalms, including the Twenty-third, The Sermon on the Mount, The Lord's Prayer:
"The Voice of the Bible" (Bibletone B) 3 Records.........$3.75 David and Goliath, The Ten Commandments, Divine Promises
"Bible Readings Album" 5 Records..........$15.00 "Sweet Singer of Israel," "Comfort Ye My People," "Remember Now Thy Creator," "Job's Wisdom," "The Prodigal Son," "Charity," "The Resurrection"
All of these are recorded in models of beautiful English, beautifully read.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Intermountain Distributors for Linguaphone English and Foreign language recordings
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

WE NEED NOT REMIND YOU....
Of the necessity for conservationlooking to home needs of the future. For a hundred years, under the direction of inspired leadership, 'Mormon' women have led the world in preparingin times of plentyfor the lean months and years to come.
Nowmore than everthe need is urgent to preserve, for winter's use, the bounties of summer's harvest.