A Child's Record By Maud Baggarley. Often when compiling genealogy for my family record I have paused in my occupation to muse about the bearers of the quaint, old-fashioned names — bearers long since dead and turned to dust. I have wondered if they were dark or fair, had good teeth or bad. were patient and sweet, or lazy and "cranky," and a hundred and one other things of a like nature. As a rule not even the cause of death is given. This desire of mine to visualize the persons, who are only names to the living, has led me to insert brief descriptions in my record for the benefit of posterity. I read somewhere recently that genealogists elsewhere are beginning to awaken to the fact that there is a mass of material, awaiting their examination in Utah. It is true that mere names are necessary to us in our work for the dead, but a fuller record would answer our purpose equally well, and also afford a vast fund of information to those who study eugenics, heredity, and the influence of environment upon character. Science is hampered in its research work in the field of child culture because of a lack of authentic data. This data, the memory of various mothers cannot fully and perfectly supply. The condition can only be remedied by an intelligent observation of the physical and mental development of many children, with an account of their surroundings and the people with whom they associate, carefully and promptly recorded. This duty must of necessity devolve upon the mothers. Although you, yourself, may not believe in pre-natal culture it will interest your child to know what you did and thought and read before his birth. Then why not keep a record especially for him? I believe that one who keeps a record of a new life, would be ashamed and afraid to bear an unwelcome child. If you feel that you must have an expensive book in which to keep a journal the result will be: good intentions but no record. A good, strong book with an imitation leather cover may be procured from the nearest grocery store for ten cents, and an excellent kodak may be purchased for about two and a half dollars. These with pen and ink and a trifle of "stick-to-it-iveness" are a sufficient equipment. You can even dispense with the kodak if you get good pictures two or three times during a child's life. Write your baby's name on the first page and leave space for its picture. When the babe is born, record its birth, weight and: — A CHILD'S RECORD. 611 any other details that you wish to remember or which might be good to know in after years. Measure and weigh it once a week, note any little ailments, its first conscious smile, appearance of teeth, when it first sits erect, its disposition, when it begins to creep, to stand and to walk, and record everything immediately. When the little one begins to talk and develop mentality, jot down its cute sayings. The humor and wisdom of the little things will astonish you later. Take kodak pictures of them as often as you can, and have them as artistic as possible, and paste them in the book or books. Have formal pictures taken by a good photographer, frequently if you can afford it. You should have at least one each year, according to Sir Francis Galton, the scientist. Paste in pictures of the house wherein the child was born, the schoolhouse and meetinghouse where he first attended, Sunday school, and pictures of his teachers and playmates. You can also put in pictures of his pets. I give my little kodak pictures titles and date each one. For instance, one picture I have is that of a little girl standing on a sort of pedestal and this I call "A Modern Venus de Milo." Above the picture of her birthplace I have written these lines from Wordsworth "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting. — -The soul that rises with us our life's star Hath had elsewhere its setting And Cometh from afar. Not in entire forgetfulness Nor yet in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home." I have also in each child's book the names of its progenitors for several generations back. You may think that such a small — book could not hold so much, but just try it! When a book is full call it Vol. I, and lay it away in a safe place. Do not forget that the more pictures you have, the more interesting your book. And another thing, the color of the child's hair is, as a rule, constantly changing, and in order that he may have some idea of how he looked at different periods of life, cut a lock of hair at least once a year and put it in a tiny envelope, label it with name and date, and paste in your book. I occasionally let each child lay his hand on a page of his journal and outline it with a pencil then go over it with ink. Let me say once more that if each young mother would devote a few minutes, now and again, to making a record such as I have described for each of her children, during the first few years of its life, she would live to see the day when she considered its price far above that of rubies.