Fear in a Little Child. By Lucy Wright Snow. One of the greatest problems that confronts the mother, in the proper guidance of children, is that of fear in a little child. It is important for mothers to possess some knowledge of the psychology of the child mind, in treating fear, for the reason that this instinct must be anticipated, and the parents be able to guide the child aright. — For really the old advice "an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure" holds good here. For in the improper guidance of this childish instinct, the whole life of the individual may be dwarfed. A youth is not a coward because his mother was, but because she has been unable to guide him properly, by not being master of her own mind. The earliest age in which the instinct of fear has been noted is in the infant of two months old, when it exhibits THE FEAR OF NOISES, and a little later on, the fear of falling, etc. The nervous system of an infant at this age is extremely sensitive, the brain as yet being very plastic and undeveloped he should, therefore, be in; troduced to the world very gradually, thereby giving the delicate, sensitive, nervous system time to adapt itself, little by little, to the big world. The gentleness and mother love, which God will give to every conscientious mother, prompts harmonious and musical sounds, such as mothers' lullabies, and this tends to control fear at this age. Of course, many of our latest writers tell us that the baby must not be sung to, but it is ridiculous to deprive the mother of the divine pleasure of crooning her song of love to her babe, and the babe from that solace. At the time that the little brain is developing so rapidly that it is crowded with imaginations (about three years, or we may say,The Imaginative Age), it is very necessary for the mother to know enough of the psychology of the child mind to be able to properly anticipate these conditions and build a wall of protection around her child at this danger point. We know that a child possesses a natural instinct of fear, which is but abnormal caution, also that other children, possibly ignorant adults, may frighten one of this tender age by such things as dark, death, storm, policeman, etc. Many parents do this, and to those who do, let me say: such a custom is born of ignorance, and the practice is the greatest injustice one can inflict upon a child. Teach him courage in every way possible, and the: 
 fear that he develops naturally will do him no harm. Read to him stories of heroes and brave deeds above all things, inspire; his confidence in God. We fear the results of breaking God's laws, but we should repose such love and confidence in Him, that this fear shall not result in detriment. Then how important it is that a mother inspire a lasting confidence in her child. She must assume the "listening attitude," listening to prevent the telling of scare stories by associates even scare attitudes. If the; child is properly anticipated and prepared, before these scares come to him, they will have little effect upon him. THE FEAR OF DARK. The wise mother lets her little ones know that she visits their beds often during the night she tells them how sweetly they look; while they sleep and of the heavenly influence she feels around them she might say; "Mother will open the window wide to let: the lovely star light shine through, and so you can hear the little frogs croak, and the first call of the birds in the morning." One mother, knowing the value of confidence at this age (three to eight), always made it a point, as she tucked them in at night, to make some reassuring remark, as "The sweet angels love: to be near children and be company for them." A child will ask, "Why can't I see the angels?" The reply is easy "You cannot: see heavenly beings with these eyes, but heavenly beings can see you." This answer serves a double purpose besides satisfying — the inquiry, it suggests the glory of heaven, and this leads us to another important cause of fear. THE FEAR OF DEATH. Care should be exercised by adults in their conversation in the presence of children, concerning death. Let it not be spoken of as a horror, but as the passing to a beautiful Paradise of Rest. Teach by simple stories, how happily we lived with our heavenly Father in heaven before we came here, and how we shall live with Him again when we leave this earth. THE FEAR OF STORM in little children can usually be traced to indiscretion and unwisdom on the part of parents by showing their own nervousness at such times. When a mother has learned self-control, and an abiding trust in the Lord, it is easy for her to cast the same mantle of protection over her child. At the first indication of a storm, let the mother say in an even tone, free from agitation "Oh! mother must hurry to finish what she is doing so that we: FEAR IN A LITTLE CHILD. 621 can go together out on the porch to watch the storm." She may then point out the size, shape, color and speed of some moving cloud, and the child will immediately become absorbed in observation, forgetful of fear. Children love true stories, and there is no time so fitting in telling the story of the Creator, as during a storm. Sometimes a child will ask if lightning will not strike people. The reply must be truthful, but can be reassuring, as "Occasionally, but it won't strike you." A little roughness is sometimes good in treating unreasoning terror and some cases of hysteria, but in an ordinary case of fear, the child should be reassured by a self-controlled, low-pitched voice, free from agitation, and quiet will be restored. Perhaps the child who is most easily reassured in fear is he who has learned self-control. Teach the child the necessity of frequent repetition of acts that frighten him so that use and custom may dispel the fear. FEAR OF THE LAW. A good—illustration under this heading, is the expression too often heard "I'll call the policeman." This expression is equivalent to saying: "I am not able to guide you, my child, I shall have to turn you over to some one who does not understand you as well as I do." Teach the child that an officer of the law is a person who will protect him, will find him when he is lost, and in case of his going astray, will bring him back to his parents for proper guidance. Teach him to love to obey the law, not fear it. In teaching a child not to fear, it is necessary also, to teach him CAUTION. For example, teach him not to fear water but to learn to swim, also the probable results of remaining in the water too long, caution concerning undertow, holes, swimming too far, etc. CONCLUSION. Too many mothers have no time to satisfy the thirsty call of the little six-year-old, for a "true story," and to realize their golden opportunity to teach courage, and the abolishment of fear, by telling such stories of heroes, as: The two thousand young — Lamanites Alma 53:20, 21. BOOKS FOR MOTHERS. Book of Mormon, Bible, Increasing Human Efficiency, by Seashore (Psychological). BOOKS FOR CHILDREN. Kingsley's Water Tell Me a True Story, by Mary Stewart; Babies.