Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 but for her. She and John were standing together. When Jesus saw them, He said to her, "Woman, behold thy son," referring doubtless to His disciple for immediately afterward He said to; John, "Behold thy mother." And the "disciple whom Jesus loved" took her to his own home "from that hour." QUESTIONS. 1. Give all the facts that you know of Mary in their order. 2. In what sense is the fatherhood of Jesus generally understood by Christians? 3. In what sense do the Latter-day Saints understand this matter? 4. Which satisfies your intelligence the better? Why? 5. Why should Mary be so highly regarded by Christian nations? 6. Why did Jewish women desire motherhood? 7.What are the reasons for desiring maternity today among the Latter-day Saints? 8. What do you think were the traits of character of Mary? (In answering this last question do not say what you do not have any authority for.) LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in December. GENEALOGY. ANGLO-SAXON SURNAMES. It will be interesting and profitable for the class to take up a brief study of the early history of Great Britain. This can be done from any school or library history. There should be a little inquiry made into the invasion of Britain in the third century by the Saxons. A little should be learned about Hengist and Horsa ? ? a century later A. D. 449 with an inquiry into the invasion of the Angles and Saxons and Jutes of the southern coftnties of England. It will be impossible to get a comprehensive knowledge of English surnames without this preliminary study into early English history. GUIDE LESSONS. 653 The Saxons, as all of these barbarian Teutons were called by the conquered Britons, were fierce, warlike and savage in their conduct and traditions. The Roman civilization which had been planted there by the efforts of Emperor Claudius was swept violently away by the Saxon invaders. The courts, forms of office, laws of marriage, and inheritance were suppressed. Even the language of science, of business, and of daily conversation which had been introduced by the Romans, was lost in the general revolution. By the end of the fifth century, England had lost all practical trace of both the Celtic and the Roman customs and nomenclature. The Saxons, like all primitive peoples, had but one name, and like all such peoples, the name was given because of some bodily blemish, or perfection, some condition of the parents' mind when the child was born, or because of some whim or impulse which actuated the parent or guardian in giving the name. In every intelligent community the giving of the name has always been regarded as a solemnity, often accompanied with a religious rite. ? Personal names, later called Christian names those simple individual names which were given by the Saxons to their children, were but for the life of him to whom they were attached they ? died with him and were not passed on to his descendants. The Saxons knew nothing of surnames as such. Many Saxon names became moulded into surnames after William the Conqueror hitroduced the foundation habit of making surnames. Such names as Harold, Ethelreda, Edith and Ermentrude are all Saxon names. Osbern, which came over from Juteland, Jalf, Juin or Juing which was the Norman scribe's spelling of Young, were common in those days. Gamel, meaning senior, was the father. Aylward, Aluric, Leofwin, Finn, meaning Dane; Syward, Thorlog, Tovie, Ulward, corrupted later into Willard, and Dolfin. These are some of the names which were given by the AngloSaxons. Childe was often given to the youngest member of the family, but the Anglo-Saxons had no known surnames whatever except in the way of added nick names or sobriquets. There was Harold the Unready, Osbern the Red, signifying the color of his hair, and Eric the Black, or Black Eric, meaning the eyes and hair color of the possessor. "Among the Angles, Saxons, Teutons of Germany, and Scandinavians, an almost unlimited variety of personal names existed. These could be formed with facility by combinations, in v;hich the designations of gods, beasts, and birds, even of inanimate objects, could be made use of, with expletives added. "The deities from whom they drew their origin, who reigned in Valhalla, and ruled the course of events, were the Aesir, the singular of which is As. Hence came such names Asbjorn, Osborn (the divine bear) Asmund, Osmund (the hand of the god) ; ; : 
 Aswald, Oswald (the power of the As) ; Oswin (the friend of the ancestral deity). "Or, again, a special deity was honored, as Thor, the Thunderer; Thorfrid is the Peace of Thor; Thorbjorn, the Bear of Thor. An archbishop of York who died in 1140 was Thursten? the Sacrificial Stone on Thor, across which the spine of the victim was snapped. "In the temples and at religious feasts a caldron was employed, filled with blood, that was splashed over the image, and v>'hich was used as well for boiling the horseflesh for the sacrificial feast. This was the kettil, and hence we have Thorketill and Osketill. "Frey was another god. Freymund was the Hand of God, ? and Freystan still among us as a surname. Freestone the Stone ? of Frey. "Gud was a name employed before Christianity was finally accepted, as a name of God, without any very fixed idea being attached to it; but when the English were converted it entered into numerous combinations, as Guthfrid (the Peace of God), Guthrie (the Power of God), Godwin (the Friend of God). "Arn, the Ea,gle into which, according to myth, Wuotan had transformed himself, gave names, as Arnor (the Eagle Arrow), Arnvid (the Eagle Wood), Arnkill (the sacrificial kettle of Odin the Eagle). The Finns, from whom tribute was taken by. the Norwegian kings, were regarded with not a little awe as necromancers, but marriages were entered into with them, and the name of Finn penetrated into the nomenclature of the offspring, as Finnlong, Thorfin or the name Halfdan was employed, indicative of mixed blood. "Qualities also entered into the) composition of names, as Ethelburg (the noble stronghold), Ethelred (the noble counselor), Eadward (the defender of his property). The list might be greatly extended, but this must suffice." We give here the list of Anglo-Saxon and Danish names found in Domesday Book Aben, Achi, Acum, Aedric Grim, Aelfag, Elfag, Aergrim, Ailm, Ailmar melc, Aki, Aldene tope, Algrim, Alii, Alnod Grutt, Alric, Alsi Bolla, Alured biga, Aluric, Alward, Alwin, Amod, Andrac, Anunt dacus (properly "Omund the Dane"), Ape, Appe, Archilbar, Ardegrip, Aregrim, Arngrim, Aschilbar, Aseloc, Auto, Azor, Baco, Bar, Basin, Biga, Bil, Boda, Bode, Bodus, Bou, Bu, Boui, Bricstoward, Brictuar Bubba, Brihtuold, Bunda, Bonde, Bondi, Buni, Bondo, Caflo, Cava, Cavo, Cavus, Celcott, Cheteber, Chetelber, Chetelbern (properly Ketelbjorn), Clac, Col, Cola, Cole, Colle, Colo, Coole, Couta, Crin, Dedol, Doda, Dode, Dodo, Don, Done, Donne, Donnus, Edlouedief, Elmer, Edric, Edwin, Edward, Eldille, Elsi, Epy, Ergrim, Esber (properly Osbern), : GUIDE LESSONS. 655 Eurewacre, Felaga, Fot, Fnglo, Gam, Game, Gamel, Gamelcarl, Gamilbar, Gumelbar, Gamiltorf, Gathne, Gilepatric, Glunier, Godtovi, Goleathegn, Gold, Golnil, Gos, Gribol, Grimulf, Haltor, Heltor, Huna, Hunus, Hunc, Htmi, Hunic, Hunni, Hunnett, Jalf, Jaul, Juin, Juing, Kee, Kettelbern, Kettelbert, Lambecarl, Leswin, Lewric, Lewin, Lure, Maban, Munnius, Magno, Suert, Moithar, Offa, Osbert, Oslac, Phin, Pin, Ram, Ramechil, Roc, Rozo, Saleman, Salpus, Sbern, Scheit, Scett, Scotcol, Seiar, Seiard, Siward Bar, Siward barn for Bjorn, Sessi, Sindi, Snellinc, Snode, Snot, Sol, Spriites and Spirtes, Spert, Stam, Stanker, Ster, Sterr, Sterre, Stur, Strui, Suartcol, Swenus Suart, Thol, Thole, Tholi, Tol, Toli, Thor, Tor, Tou, Toul, Tovi, Towi, Tiirlogi (properly Thorlaug), Uuward, Unfac, Wadel, Wadhel, Welp, Wilegrip, Wit, Elward Levet, Wardrou. QUESTIONS. Who were Hengist and Horsa? How did the coming of the Angles, Saxons and Jutes (or Danes) affect the languag^e of Great Britain? What was the character of the Saxons? What other people had but one name? What can you say of Christian names? Give instances of Saxon names. Reference Books "Story of Family Names," by S. Baring-Gould. "Christian Names," by Charlotte Yonge. "English Surnames," by Beardsley. These books can be purchased through the Genealogical Society of Utah. They can be consulted in most public libraries. If libraries are without them, ask to have them put in stock. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. December. "on earth peace, good will to men." This is the Christmas month, and let our art work consist of bringing something beautiful into the home, not from the shops, but from Nature which is never tired of giving to those who seek. Put on thick boots and let us go in search of the wild Christmas holly. On the mountains we will find mountain ash, wild rose berries, joint-grass by the creeks, and the Oregon grape, or mountain holly, and in the highest spots mistletoe may be found. If the snow blanket is not heavy, rose berries will still be intact and the Oregon grape will still be found under the light! 
 MAGAZINE. snow. The beautiful "box" will be seen in patches on the creek banks. These will make a festive Christmas decoration, and will be more admired than the commonplace Christmas holly, so you may carry home gunny sacks of beautiful sprays from your own mountains. DECORATION. Don't forget the Christmas table. If there is nothing green in your vicinity, make mats for your table. I have seen my mother fold and cut ornate, lacy mats of green from green paper to put under the meat platter and the vegetable dishes. She made bells of red to hang over the mantel. I often use English ivy which is effective on the lace curtains in little sprays and in long festoons hung over chandeliers, shelves, sideboard, pictures, clock and favorite family portraits. And in keeping with all this, the ivy should complete the table decorations. Unique place cards for Christmas may be made with bunches of green slipped through a slit in the card. Be sure and add a Christmas wish with the name of the guest. An old English custom is to bring in "The Christmas Rose," which might revive. QUESTIONS. a. Describe Christmas Day with the snow blanket. What are the colors of the shadows? Describe the appearance of the snow-covered foliage. Describe the sky of Christmas night, the stars in the sky, and the landscape with the lights in the houses. Tell a unique way of dressing the Christmas tree without the cheap tinsel decoration so commonly used. The first Christmas tree we had for our children was decorated with Japanese trimmings which we hunted out from a Japanese store. There were tiny colored jugs, small teapots, fans, tiny baloons and lanterns. Every kind of animal we could find made by those cunning Japanese workers, as chickens, monkeys, etc., we hung on the trees. An artist friend in whose family were no children, gave us some icicles of glass, little jars brought from Europe, and many other interesting trinkets. The candlesticks were tiny flowers with a device to cling to the tree. A few paper baskets made by my mother, and always a stork hanging in the top of the tree, made a charming work of art for the children to enjoy. No commercial or vulgar toys were used, and many were the children that came to view it. Each thing was treasured from year to year with always an addition of something rare or unique. Kow different from the many foolish, gaudy trees I have seen, and which other people seem to take some pleasure with b. Suggest a unique plan for hanging up Christmas stocking