McNOTES FROM THE FIELD. . 627 Clelland secretary, Agnes Lloyd chorister, May Barrett organist, Emily Sorenson. — Box Elder Stake. In the Box Elder stake, during the past year, some very successful teachers' conventions have been held in the various wards. The programs have consisted of talks and papers on the work and duties of teachers, interspersed with musical numbers. After the programs, refreshments have been served, and a social hour indulged in. These conventions have been helpful to the general work and an incentive for better service. A paper on "The Mission of the Relief Society Teacher," prepared and read at a recent convention, was exceptionally interesting and inspiring. — Utah Stake. The Utah Stake Relief Society Teachers' department is making a special effort to gather a greater amount of wheat this year than has every been gathered before in any one year. The teachers have been organized and instructd to make a special visit to every houes with a hope of securing at least one bushel of wheat, or the value of one bushel, in cash, from each family in the stake. Relief Society meetings have been held in all the wards on an appointed Sunday evening when one or more members of the stake board spoke on the history and importance of wheat storing. In connection with the subject of wheat, the teachers are also discussing and promoting the Penny Subscription Fund. From a report of the Home Economics section of the Relief Society of this stake we learn that all the wards in the stake have followed the outline as given in the Magazine, and in addition the stake held a Home Economics convention, in Provo, at the Brigham Young University, in February. This convention consisted of three sessions, with eight hundred members in attendance. In March, workers from the extension department of the Agricultural College visited Provo with their special train, and in connection with the inspection at the station, lectures were given at the Central School by Mrs. Gertrude McCheyne and Mrs. Margaret Hull Eastman, under the auspices of the Stake Relief Society. Three hundred women attended these lectures. New Zealand. Mrs. Horace C. Holbrook has just reached New Zealand where she expects to do missionary work in connection with her husband. She has written for copies of the Magazine in order to put the Society there in close touch with the work at home.