MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 645 fittings for the wagons that would be needed on the long journey. As he was going in the carriage he told mother she could go too, and see her parents and sister once more before they returned to their home in Maine, where their only son had urged them to come, instead of taking the long journey into the wilderness, and which they had been counseled to do on account of their great age, and the hardships they would have to meet. Accordingly, mother took Moroni with her, expecting to return the same day, but as the blacksmiths were busy Pa could not get his irons for a day or two, and told mother she had better stay till he would come back in a day or two for them. — The weather had been growing cold for some days the next day was colder and the third day when Pa arrived at the river it was so full of mush-ice that the ferry boats could not run and he returned to camp, bringing this word. The cold still increasing the river froze over, but the ice was not strong enough to bear up a man on a horse, and for two weeks all communication between Nauvoo and Iowa was cut off. Mother was in Nauvoo Ollie and I were in camp. We slept in our wagon and it was so cold that Sister Phebe Pratt who slept with us, frosted her feet. A War Time Reminder We present to our readers the photograph of Mrs. Laura Anna Myers, now Mrs. A. W. McConahay, of Van Wert, Ohio. She is the mother of our well-known and popular jeweler, W. M. McConahay, of this city. When a very young girl Mrs. McConahay saw her friends and associates embark on that awful struggle between the North and the South. As the troops were leaving her own home town of Greenup, Kentucky, a state and town that were about evenly divided between the North and the South, she presented the Stars and Stripes to the company with the following speech. Just now it is especially interesting, as war topics fill the air. Flag presentation speech to a company of the tenth Ky. Cavalry, recruited at Greenup by Captain Jacob Nelson, August 21, 1862. By Mrs. A. P. McConahay. Soldiers: In behalf of the citizens of Greenup, I stand here today to tell you how sad we feel at parting with husbands, brothers, and sons. How lonely we will be without you! How 
 much we will miss your kind faces, and manly forms by the fireside, in the church and everywhere Hearts of mothers, wives, ! and sisters will grow sad and faint for your return, and yet, soldiers, we send you forth with prayers and blessings, even with heartfelt pride. Ye are our noble kin. We need not exhort you to a love of country, which even now beams in every eye before me, and shows itself by your noble resolve to die in its defense. We need not tell you to be brave, for we feel that no true son of Kentucky can be a coward. I know your hearts burn with generous and patriotic emotions. May the thoughts of the honored dead, whose bones now lie mingled with the soil of every state, fallen in the great struggle for American Liberty and MRS. W. MCCONAHAY. their immortal leader, teach you to emulate them in all that is pure, noble, and brave. God in his wisdom has transmitted to us this great and good Government with all its estimable blessings which our fathers. through many years of hardship and destitution, fought to establish. In an hour of folly and madness and blind ambition its destruction has been sought, and an attempt made to sever it from that Union by which alone its existence is made sure. Soldiers, we look to you to guard and defend it. Go forth to your country's call, full of faith and reliance in that — ; ; ; — — ; A WAR TIME REMINDER. 647 God who watched over and protected your fathers in the hour of battle and great trial, and it shall again stand forth in the strength of its manhood, full of its original spirit, stretching forth its protecting arm to all friends who gather around it, growing brighter and brighter, stronger and stronger, until beneath its genial influence all nations shall love the emblem and symbol of Freedom. In behalf of the citizens of Greenup, I have the honor to present this banner, and to you as the representative of this noble band of patriots and soldiers, I will say. — Take this banner, may it wave "Proudly o'er the good and brave When the battle's distant wail, Breaks the silence of our vale When the clarion's music thrills To the heart of these lone hills "When the spear in conflict shakes And the strong lance shivering breaks. "Take thy banner, and beneath The war clouds encircling wreath Guard it 'till your homes are free — Guard it God will prosper thee In the dark and trying hour In the breaking forth of power, In the midst of steed and men, His right hand will shield you then "Take thy banner, but when night Closes round the ghostly fight Of the vanquished warrior, bow. Spare him by our holy vow. By our prayers and many tears By the mercy that endears Spare him, as you would be spared. "Take thy banner, and if e'er. Thou shouldst press the soldier's bier And the muffled drum should beat To the sound of mournful feet, Then this spangled flag may be Martial cloak and shroud for thee."