A VICTORY FOR WOMEN.
	The women of Washington Territory are rejoic-
ing in full suffrage, given them by law, and the bill
granting it signed by Governor Semple on the
19th of January 1888.  This makes three times
that the Legislature of that Territory have voted
for Woman Suffrage.  First passed a law in 1883,
and the women voted under it.  Governor Squire
of that Territory, in 1884 said of the law in his
report to the Secretary of the Interior.
	"It meets with the approval of a large majority
of the people and the women of the territory are
for the most part, strongly desirous that the
enactmeut be retained upon our Statute books."
	Republicans and Democrats inserted in their
platforms the declaration, that "the elective fran-
chise should not be denied to any citizen on ac-
count of sex."  The Democratic platform "re-
commended that women should be released
from compulsory jury duty."
	In 1885 the Legislature reaffirmed the law, and
"the women voted in increasing numbers."
	In February 1886, after the women had voted
three years and a half, the Supreme Court of that
Territory pronounced the law invalid, on the
ground that the nature of the bill must be des-
cribed in the title, and that the women suffrage
bill had been headed only,—"An Act to Amend
Section—Art—,"instead of "An Act to Enfran-
chise Women."  The Legislature has now given
to this law an explicit title.
	The new law states that, "women are exempted
from jury duty."  This may or may not mean that
they are ineligible, according to the interpretation
given to the law.  While permitted to serve as
jurors it is said they gave complete satisfaction
being "both competent and conscientious."  In
Wyoming the same testimony has been given over
and over.
	Governor Ames of Massachusetts, and Gover-
nor Larrabee of Iowa, have both recommended
municipal suffrage for women in their inaugural
addresses this year.  This is a fact worthy of re-
cord.  A municipal woman suffrage bill has been
introduced into both Houses of the New York
Legislature.
	In Mexico women are making great progress
though it is such a conservative country, and
where women are coming to the front in medicine
and surgery and in the literary field, it proves that
the spirit of woman's advancement is abroad in
the world, and the good seed sown among many na-
tions is beginning to spring up, and we doubt not
will bear both blossom and fruit in "the good time
coming."
	Meanwhile patience is a virtue that must be
cultivated by some, at least, for here in Utah where
women had voted for seventeen years with the
best possible results, forsooth all at once "by
one fell blow" the axe descends; the law which
had been passed, the bill with a complete heading
that had been signed and sealed according to
Territorial Statutes, was annulled, and without re-
dress or process of law of any kind, the ballot in the


hands of the women of Utah is rendered null and
void. And why? Echo answers,” “Why!” There
is no good or valid reason. There may have been
a political reason known to those who were in-
strumental in making the demand or request, but
by what right, except that “might is right,” we
fail to comprehend. But the object sought by
those who anticipated place and power by these
small means,has not been attained and never will be
It was most illiberal and unjust to lake from the
women of Utah this right to self-protection, and
it will never further the ends which it was de-
signed to compass. When Utah becomes a
State, with all the freedom that Statehood implies,
the Legislature will, no doubt,confer upon women
equal political rights and privileges of citizenship.


