ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Once more I have taken up my pen to give
your readers a few items from this far off place.
The pleasant weather of autumn is past, and
winter, grim and cold, is with us, and it has
been bitter cold for this usually mild climate.
The merry holidays are gone again, and little
folks started to school. We are so far from
friends and relatives, and yet dear old Santa
Claus has remembered us, and if his gifts were
small, they filled many a little heart with joy
and gratitude. The precious letters he brought,
all full of comfort and cheer, did so much to-
ward lifting us above "life's dreary cares;" such
letters are like the visitations of angels to me.
	Our numbers are so few here at the present
time, that our usual sisters' meetings have not
been held. Our Primary has lately been
organized, and we hope the others will soon be
in order again; but as there is seldom more than
three or four sisters here at a time, little can
be accomplished. I believe all are interested
deeply in such organizations, and will most
gladly hail the day when our numbers will
give promise of success in this direction.
	Our Indian neighbors are still quite friendly;
I had hoped, ere this, to have gleaned some-
thing which I could feel would be of interest
to your many readers about this people called
Navajoes, though it may not be out of place to
mention some of their strange customs.
	From a missionary I learned that a son-in-
law and mother never look at each other after
his marriage to her daughter, lest he or she
should immediately be struck with blindness.
It is said the mother may still cling to the
daughter with the same devotion as previous
to her marriage, and live for years almost with
her, and yet with this strange idea, she will not
even dare to let her eyes turn for a moment on
the husband of her child, nor will he presume
to glance at her. They are a very superstitious
people in every way, and when any are sick it
is often thought that an enemy has caused it
by casting some evil spell on the afflicted one.
Then they have their great "medicine men," to
whom they give all their houses and sheep fre-
quently, with the hope of having this dreaded
spell broken. Those who have learned some
of the beautiful truths which the Gospel teaches
are full of faith and have perfect confidence
that their sick will be healed through the ad-
ministration by the Elders of the Church, and
where this implicit faith is continued, the bless-
ing, and often the entire healing, is realized.
Our brethren have endeavored to convince
them that it is not the power of man that
brings about this cure, but it is to God, their
Heavenly Father, whom their praise and
thanks are due. They will often come with a
sick babe and ask for a little oil to rub on some
afflicted part, saying they know it will make it
well at once. There have been some very re-
markable cases of healing, and this has a ten-
dency to increase their faith.
	(Not many months ago an old chief's daughter


was taken ill so suddenly that her friends feared
she would die before relief could be found.
Her father was then living about two or three
miles from a little settlement of the Saints in
Arizona; she requested her father to go at once
and bring some of the brethren, that they
might make her well.  He came at once, beg-
ging for them to make haste, saying his child
must die if they did not come.  They found
her quite as ill as represented, and administered
with the desired effect.  This was early Sunday
morning, and at two o'clock the same day the
whole party, including the girl who had been
sick, rode down horseback to attend the meet-
ing, all rejoicing in the blessings they had re-
ceived.
	When we first came to this country, some
ten years ago, we became acquainted with an
Indian who had been several years before
shot, and the ball was still remaining in his leg.
He was a great sufferer, and had become re-
duced to a perfect skeleton.  His family had
had large flocks of sheep and many horses all
of which had been spent during the years of
his sickness, and still no relief came.  He had
heard the Gospel and been baptized about a
year previous to our arrival but through the 
influence of his many friends and their old
traditions, still clung to their foolish notions
doctoring their sick, but when everything was
exhausted and he was still a hopeless cripple
suffering at times intensely, he became willing
to trust himself entirely in the hands of the
brethren and do as they advised.  They found
a kind sister, who was a good nurse and full
of faith, and with the free use of oil and some
mild poultice, and keeping the wound
thoroughly cleansed, the ball was soon removed
and he was gradually restored to almost perfect
health, and when I met him a few years after
I was astonished and could not recognize him
as the poor wretched being I had first known.
	It is quite a curiosity to see the women at
work weaving some of the pretty blankets they
make.  White women would scorn to use such
a rude loom and the many little bits of wood
with the fancy colored yarn wound on them.
The designs are very pretty and so evenly ar-
ranged it seems almost incredible that such
work can be done with so little to work with.
As among all uncivilized races, the women do
most of the hard work.
	The husband and wife keep their property
separate, and in all their buying and selling
each attends to his or her business independent
of the other, and at the death of either party,
the brothers and sisters claim the property, not
the husband, children or wife, as the case may
be.  When the young man is desiring to marry,
he must show that he has something to give
for his bride, for a mother never allows her
daughter to be taken without a certain amount
of horses given in return, and if the young
woman is not pleased with her newly found
husband she can desert him at once, but he
cannot recover any of the means given in ex-
change; but, if she ever marries again,  her
mother will exact a smaller amount than at
first demanded.
	Well, I have written more than I at first in-
tended, but trust it will not be out of place.
Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
			Your sister,
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
San Juan, N. M., Jan. 10, 1888.


