WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:—In reading down the
columns of the EXPONENT, I often wonder
why there is nothing said about Plain City?
We have been noticed throughout the country
for our fine fruits and vegetables, and our 
pleasant location.


We have been organized in a Relief Society
twenty years; myself, with many others, have
plodded along, meeting with many scenes of
pleasure, and some not so pleasant.  We have
had the counsels of our late President, L. W.
Shurtliff, and not only his counsels, but his
presence at our meetings; also that of his Coun
selors.  His fatherly care and teachings are
not forgotten, and while we appreciate his
counsels, we do not forget those of our present
Bishop, Geo. W. Bramwell; although his time
seems more taken up with other duties, yet we
feel we have his support.  Our President,Sister
Almira Raymond, received her appointment as
President of the Relief Society in its first or-
ganization, and is still firm in her trust, backed
by her Counselors, and the sisters and teachers; 
yet with all, she has a variety of feelings and 
minds to please.  I am, however, thankful to
say she is endeavoring to do her duty in a mild
and gentle manner.
	Sister Raymond is a noble-minded woman,
and her desires are to teach others nobility of
character, and to emulate the examples of the 
noble and virtuous.  We are not alone in the
enterprise of human intelligence in this place,
for we have the Young Ladies' Association,
guided by a very noble woman, Sister Jane
Thomas, with her Counselors.  They hold their
meetings every week, and are in a healthy con-
dition.  We have also the Primary, and their 
President, Sister Susannah Robinson, with her
germs of man and womanhood, endeavoring to
train them in the paths of loveliness and virtue.
She merits great praise for her labors
	We are now through with the holidays, and
are taking up our knitting and domestic labors
as usual, and sitting down to a quiet life again.
We number over one hundred in our Society,
and have an average attendance at our meeting
of about thirty.  Oh, by the bye, I had almost
forgotten to mention, we are talking of having a
party to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of
our organization, and if we have the party, we
shall have to unite with our boys—whom we
have lived with for the last half century or
more—to help us out with the programme, as
we cannot well do without them.
	Dear Editor, I am something like Blenda
Bluegrass, it is getting so near dinner time I
must stop writing for the present, remaining,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE NEAL.
Plain City, Jan. 27, 1888.


