A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	About thirty ladies assembled in the parlors of
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie, on Tuesday, Jan. 31st, to
celebrate the anniversary of the birthday of Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, familiarly known as Aunt Zina
throughout these valleys of the mountains. Sister
Young was born in 1821, and has reached the age 
of 67 years. Many loving tributes were paid to
her by those present, almost every one speaking
in glowing terms of her genuine worth and good-
ness of heart. It was also the anniversary of the
birth of another of the pioneer women of Zion--
Mrs. Jane S. Richards—and one, who among the
sick, the desolate, the afflicted and the sorrowful,
has also been a helper and comforter in both
words and deeds.
	After some hours spent in genial conversation,
delicious refreshments were handsomely served to
the invited guests of the day, and the hostess,
Mrs. Beattie, in a very pleasing manner, alluded
to the happy occasion that had brought together
so many dear friends, and nominated "Aunt
Presendia" the elder sister of the honored one as
Chairman of an informal meeting, which was
agreed to by all present. Sister P. L. Kimball
graciously accepted the honor conferred, and gave
out the hymn, "O, my Father," etc, Prayer was
offered by Sister M. I. Horne.
	Aunt Presendia spoke in terms of admiration of
her sister Zina; thought it would be impossible to
say too much for her; also alluded to the women
of this Church who had borne the heat and bur-
den of the day and proved faithful—Mother
Whitney, Sister Eliza, Sister Marinda Hyde and
others. Referred to her labors with them; felt to
bless the wives of Joseph Smith the Prophet, who 
were now living; loved and honored them.
	Aunt Zina appreciated all the loving tributes, etc.
Desired to live worthily, and to do good in her
day, and be a blessing to her associates.
	Sister R. R. Grant spoke eloquently of Aunt
Zina, Mother Whitney and Sister Eliza, and al-
luded to refreshing seasons in the past; enjoyed
the society of the sisters and the spirit and influ-
ence that prevailed when all were united as on the
present occasion.
	Sister Emily D. P. Young expressed herself
strong in the faith of the Gospel, and not dis-
couraged with trials; had seen many changes;
knew the principles taught by Joseph Smith were
eternal, and exhorted all to prove faithful.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. J. Stevenson, S. M.
Kimball, M. Burnham, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells,
E.R. Shipp, M. D., M. A. Freeze, F. Y. Thatcher,
P. Y. Beattie, M. C. Shipp, M. D., Julia C. Howe,
C. Horrocks, L. D. Alder, Ann Groesbeck, M. 
Y. Dougal, Etta Ellerbeck, Annie Watson and M.
I. Horne each made brief congratulatory ad-
dresses, and mentioned every good thing possible.
The absent ones were not forgotten, those who
had proved their integrity unto the end and
passed away from our sight, and the fervent wish
was expressed that all present might prove worthy
and attain to the same exaltation, and be associa-

[Column 2]
ted in the eternal worlds. The gift of tongues
was manifest in blessing, and interpretations were
given, and it was a time of refreshing from on
high. Singing, "The Spirit of God," etc., and a 
benediction was pronounced, and the sisters dis-
persed, feeling comforted and strengthened by the
loving words and the outpourings of the Holy
Spirit.
	Sisters Jane S. Richards and Minerva W. Snow
left the company before the meeting commenced,
as duty called them in another direction.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT extends heartfelt
congratulations to Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Jane S. Richards on having attained to the
three score and more years, and wishes for each
of them length of days, prosperity, honors, and
that experience that will fit and prepare them for
celestial glory and happiness in the great here-
after.


