WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The oldest arm- chair in the world is the
throne of Queen Hatafu, who flourished in
Egypt 1,600 years B. C. It is made of ebony,
and is beautifully carved. It is now in the
British Museum.

	Gov. Eugene Semple, of Washington Terri-
tory, who has earned the blessings of thousands
of women all over the country by signing the
woman suffrage bill, is described by the Golden-
dale Sentinel as “a very genial gentleman, who
might be mistaken for a well-to- do farmer. He
bears the honors of his office easily.”


[Column 1]
	PHEBE PRATT.
	I have never seen a notice of the death of Sister Phebe
Pratt in our little paper; I have been waiting for some one
who was better acquainted with her life to write something
in her behalf.
	She was refict of the late Parley P. Pratt, so well known
in Church History. I only knew her in the latter part of
her life, and am not well enough posted to write about the
many interesting things that transpired in the early settle-
ment of the valleys, of which she bore her part, and of her
travels with her husband in Chili. I always found her
humble and patient, and earnest in the cause of truth, will-
ing to devote her life to the Gospel. She lived with her
only daughter, Mrs Holdaway, from whom she was never
long parted, until by the hand of death.
	She was very anxious to go to the temple and do a
work for her dead. She had made her calculations and
got her recommends and papers ready twice, when in
April she was taken down with pneumonia; she had a long,
hard fit of sickness and a slow convalescence. She was
very frail all summer, but clung tenaciously to the idea of
going to the Temple.
	About the 1st of September she had her arrangements
again made, her clothes ready and her trunks packed for
the journey. She would have started in a day or two,
when one morning as she tried to get up she found her-
self unable to do so, and she never left her bed any more; a
low fever set in, and in a few days she passed away, in the
arms of her daughter.
	She still had faith that she would recover, and her sudden
demise must have been as unexpected to her as to her
friends. Soon after her funeral, which was largely attended
by her friends, her daughter moved to Tintic with her hus-
band, and I had no opportunity of gathering dates as to her
age, or anything else of interest.
	She was about sixty-four years of age, and had spent
much of her life, after Parley’s death, at Spanish Fork,
where she taught school. She moved to Provo about ten
yean ago, when I first became acquainted with her. She

[Column 2]
became associated with the Relief Society of the Third
Ward, and acted for several years in the capacity of Coun-
selor to the President. She resigned her position to go
with her daughter to Juab, from where she moved to Salt
Lake City. She returned to Provo, and was holding the
position of Counselor to the President of the teachers
quorum at the time of her death.
	We feel to offer the following Resolutions of Respect to
her memory:
	
	Whereas, In the providence of an alwise God, He has
seen fit to remove from our presence our beloved sister,
Phebe E. Pratt, and,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate was worthy
our highest regard and affection, we  feel that some proper
recognition of her virtues be had among us; therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society,
deeply mourn the loss of such a sister, and will ever hold
her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her family
and friends, and that we try to so order our lives that we
may hope to meet her when our journey of life is over.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread on the re-
cords of the ward, that a copy be given to her bereaved
family and friends, and that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
Exponent. 
							M. J. Tanner, Prest.
							Lavira COLLINS, Sec. 
	P. S. Phebe Soper Pratt was born at Hempstead, Har-
mon, Queens County, New York, July 8, 1823. Was sealed
to Parley P. Pratt in the Nauvoo Temple by John Taylor,
Feb. 8, 1846.
	She went on a mission with her husband, leaving Salt
Lake City March 16, 1851. They sailed from San Fran-
cisco Sept. 5, for Valparaiso, Chili, South America, and
arrived Nov. 8th. Returned to San Francisco on the 21st
of May, 1852, after a tedious passage of seventy-nine days,
having suffered for proper food for forty days on board
ship.
	She died at Provo, Sept. 17, 1887, aged 64 years and
2 months.
	B.P.

	Resolutions of Respect, to the memory of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, by the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver City,
Beaver Co., Utah, Jan. 20, 1888.
	Whereas, God in His infinite mercy, has seen fit to take
from our midst our dear friend, sister and fellow-laborer in
the Y. L. M. I. A., and,
	Whereas, Our friend and associate was worthy our high-
est affection and regard, her labors in our Association being
faithfully performed, both as officer and member, we feel
it proper that we make expression of our feelings at the
loss we are called, upon to sustain; therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Beaver City, realize, that in the death of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, this Association has sustained a severe loss.
	Resolved, That we shall sadly miss her presence, her
wise counsels and her cheerful spirit in our meetings.
	Resolved, That we, as members of this Association, will
try and profit by the wise counsel she has given us, and
emulate her example in chastity, in cheerfulness, and in the
performance of every duty.
	Resolved, That we extend our sincere sympathy to her
stricken family, especially to her husband and babes, hop-
ing that the comforting Spirit of our Heavenly Father may
be with then to console them in their sad and sudden
affliction.
	Resolved, That a copyof these Resolutions be presented
to her parents and her husband, and that they be sent to
the Utonian and to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	She was one among our number,
		As child, maiden, wife;
	Was pure, kind and loving
		Through every walk in life.
	From early days of babyhood,
		She, light of home hath proven;
	To her father and her mother
		No care or doubt hath given.

	As sister and companion,
		As wife and mother, too,
	She’s shown qualities of character
		That are seldom brought to view.
	She was lively in her nature, 
		Yet strong in traits of heart,
	Which endeared her to acquaintances,
		Unalloyed by craft or art.

	As a member of our Sabbath School,
		Also the “Mutual Guide,"
	She always filled her mission well,
		Ne’er shrank from duty’s side.
	And as sales-woman or teacher,
		Likewise mother, friend, or wife,
	She was always at her station,
		Has been thus through her life.

	She’s sanctified her mission,
		And nobly borne her cross.
	Has gone to that heavenly region.
		Where’s no sorrow, sin or loss.
	There friends do never separate,
		And hearts are stronger bound,
	True worth is rightly recognized, 
		And falseness never found.

	For her husband and her babies 
		We ask God’s choicest care;
	Also for parents and kindred,
		We extend an earnest prayer.
	The time is short before us
		To work out all that’s good,
	Before we give our record up,		
		Where each one’s understood.

	Be comforted, we say to you,
		For God’s will must be done,
	And Nettie’s with the glorified,
		Also with the Chosen One;
	And you’ll meet her over yonder,
		If worthy to join her there,
	In the kingdom of God’s glory,
		Unsullied by wrong or care.

	E. J. Bennett, President.


