	DAVIS STAKE
	
The quarterly conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the Centre-
villa Meeting House, Jan. 20, 1888. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Bro. John
Wooley. Continued with singing. Prest. S.
Grant presided, and Sister Zina D. H. Young
met with us. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted; the reports of the 
different branches of the R. S. of the Stake 
were also read.
	Prest. Grant said she did not think it too
late in the season to wish all a happy new year;
was pleased to see so many present; was also
glad to see so many of our brethren with us;
always felt glad to be supported by the priest-
hood; felt a determination to do her duty.
	She then called upon the presidents of the 
branches that were present to speak. Sister
Hatch represented South Bountiful; Sister
Fackrell, West Bountiful; Sister Lucina Ses-
sions, East Bountiful; Sister Margaret Randall,
Centerville; Sister Ellen Barkdall, Farming-
ton.
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed us.
Said we should always be united, and learn to 
control ourselves; be subject to those placed
over us; cultivate a love for our religion, for it
would bring us joy and satisfaction. “Let us 
teach our children correct principles and to
have faith in God.” Urged the necessity of
mothers watching over their children, and try
to keep them from falling into the snares that are
devised by our enemies to lead them astray.
Advised the sisters to read the Book of Mor-
mon, and especially the first and second books
of Nephi; said we were living in the very day
that was spoken of by the prophets. Spoke of
the great testimony that Bro. Joseph and Bro.
Brigham had borne to the world and they had
rejected it; and also of the judgments that were
beginning to be poured out upon the nations of
the earth; thought the Latter-day Saints should
be humble, and not forget their prayers.
	Bishop Cheney said he had been much edified
in listening to the good counsel and advice of 
the sisters; felt to endorse what had been said;
knew that our Heavenly Father was blessing
us, notwithstanding our carelessness. Spoke of
the responsibility of parents. “Let us honor
this trust, and be watchful over our children,
that they may grow up firm believers in the 
principles of the Gospel. I pray that God
may give us liberal hearts, that we may com-
fort the hearts of the poor and those who have
been deprived of their fathers and husbands.”
	Prest. Grant felt she had been truly blest in
hearing the good instructions that had been 
given.
	Conference then adjourned until 2 o’clock,
with singing and benediction.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened by singing. Prayer
by Bro. Waddoups, Sen. Singing again.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, “We are a blessed
people, gathered here in the valleys of the 
mountains, and if we listen to the counsels of
those placed over us, we will receive great 
blessings. Encourage love for one another; be 
careful to keep the light within us; our enemies
are desirous of destroying the priesthood, that
is what they are working for.” Felt a desire to 
be faithful in the performance of every duty;
spoke of the importance of taking care of our 
bodies. 
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good instruction; spoke of the evils of tobacco;
said it was destroying the health and laying a 
foundation for disease. Exhorted the mothers
to look after their children; try and gain their 
confidence; have them attend the Primary, as 
it is preparing them to be useful members in
the kingdom of God; teach them to have faith
in the Lord, and they will grow up in it Said
none would be saved in the celestial kingdom 
except those who turn from evil and choose the
good, “Read good books; search for knowledge,
and resist all evil influences; cease to find fault
with one another.” Spoke of the necessity of


prayer, and cultivating the spirit of kind-
ness, and also of the perfect organization that
existed in the Church, even the children were
organized, so that all may know God from the
least to the greatest.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers bore a faithful testi-
mony; spoke of the carelessness of the people.
“We should seek for the Spirit of God and live
in a manner that it will abide with us.”
Thought persecution was necessary to bring us
in the line of our duty; spoke of the Primary;
exhorted all those holding offices in the Asso-
ciation to be faithful and diligent, and  let us
seek for the spirit of our offices and callings.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman had a testimony to
bear of the truth of the work we are engaged
in. “We should live our religion day by day,
and strive to overcome the evil of our natures.
We are living in a day full of events; there is
nothing outside of our religion, but there is
everything in it, for it embraces every truth;
one of the worst things to regret is for a person
to lose the light after they have received it, for
oh, how great is the darkness! My desire is to
perform every known duty, and receive the in-
structions that are given us from time to time
and profit by them.”
	Sister Grant was thankful for the good in-
structions that had been given here to-day;
hoped all would treasure it up; advised the sis-
ters to read the Book of Mormon and all good
books. “Let us search after true knowledge,
for we cannot be saved in ignorance.” Was
much pleased with the advice Sister Zina had
given to mothers; hoped all would profit by it.
“Let us watch over our children, and teach
them the principles of life and salvation, which
will lead them back into the presence of their
Father in Heaven.” Felt determined to try
and do her duty and perform the labors that
were placed upon her.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Christenson.
		RHODA HINMAN, Stake Secretary.


