MY DARLING LULA:
	Your holiday letter, with kind tokens of re-
membrance, was thankfully received. It is
sweet to be tenderly and thoughtfully remem-
bered by those we love. Especially do I regard
the affection of my dear children as precious
beyond measure. And that they love and fear
the Lord is a most comforting thought to
me. 
	Yesterday, I believe, was about as cold a day
as I ever experienced. I could not keep warm
close to the fire with all the wraps I could get
on. To day is not quite so cold. So far, this
winter, my health has been very good for me.
	The news of the death of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister E. R. S. Smith, was quite a shock
to me, notwithstanding her advanced age and
the fact that her health had been delicate so
much of the time during the past year. It
seems lonely to think that she has really passed
beyond this vail of mortality, and that we shall
see her no more this side. How many of our
loved ones have departed, and how little we
know who, or how many, may be called hence
in the year just opening. It surely stands us
all in hand to be ready at any time. 	
	Reading in the Deseret News of the awful
depravity of some of the young boys in your
city, makes me fairly shudder. Oh! my
daughter, let nothing hinder your at-
tention to your little boys. Do not forget that
now, while they are so young and close around
you, is the time to impress them with all good
and noble sentiments and desires; the value of
truth, honesty and virtue, the importance of
being industrious, prayerful and generous, and
all these beautiful qualities which combine to
make up a pure and excellent character.
	If parents would only put these matters in
their proper place, far ahead of gaining
worldly wealth and all things that perish with
the using, would so many reckless young peo-
ple be found in Zion? It seems to me there
would not.True, even then some might go astray,
but I think not so many.
	I came across one of your old poems among
my letters the other day, which I will send you,
as I do not think you kept a copy of it. It has
no title. Here it is:
		"Truth will triumph I never fear,
			Ye who battle for the right;
		Be in earnest, be sincere,
			Pray and work with all your might.

		Should you once mistake your part,
			Humbly bear all just reproof;
		Cleanse and purify your heart,
			From all baseness stand aloof.

		Help your brother on the road,
			Think not of yourself alone;
		Aid him with his heavy load,
			Guard his honor as your own.

		Be prepared for deadly strife.
			Virtue to the death defend!
		Thy reward eternal life—
			Truth will triumph in the end!"

	When you see Sisters Presendia and Zina re-
member me to them with much love; also all the
other dear sisters who are laboring for the wel-

[Column 2]
fare of the work of God. Tell Sister Wells
that I very much appreciate the EXPONENT,
and ask her to please change my address to
Marion.
	With fervent prayers for you all, I remain,
			Your loving mother,
