A BOUQUET.

	My subject matter is a Bouquet, or collection of
words, which should become a part of the study
and the attributes of a child, as they develop into
manhood or womanhood. They are, viz.: Stamina,
Habit, Order, Obedience and Harmony.
				STAMINA.
	To write an article for the paper requires some
stamina, and to read an article to an audience re-
quires more stamina. To deny ourselves o
pleasure, to fulfill a promise, requires stamina. To
do just right, when very much tempted to do wrong,
requires stamina. To get up early on a very cold
frosty morning to perform duties, requires stamina,
and when a youth is desirous of qualifying himself
or herself, for any noble purpose or position, to
accomplish it will require a great deal of stamina.
Sometimes, when temptations beset us, to say the
little word no! with emphasis, when we would very
much like to say yes, requires stamina. Well,
what do I meam by stamina?
	A fixed, determined purpose (not stubbornness),
unmoved, unshaken, possessing a support, a
strength, a solidity. Some people are like a piece
of cloth, that is deficient both in warp and woof,
they have no stamina. George Washington, when
asked by his father, "Who cut down the cherry
tree?" possessed sufficient stamina to say, "I cut
down the tree, father; I cannot tell a lie!"
	Now, let us stick to our text all through life, and
let our works show that we have the stamina that
characterized a Napoleon Bonaparte, when he
wanted his troops to ascend the Alps, and they
had halted at difficulties; he says, "On! on! my
brave boys."
	If your head pains you and your lessons are
tedious, sleep, and try again, and you will be
astonished to see how the brain has awakened by
rest and sleep. You should seldom stop at obsta-
cles, but strive to surmount them, and prove
thereby that you possess some stamina. If you
have not succeeded your effort will have given you
a degree of experience, and by it a strength that
will aid you in another encounter, perhaps more
difficult, which you could not have accomplished
had it not been for the previous learned lesson.
Like the tree, with every additional blast and
bluster the roots reach out and cling closer to their
mother earth, and the tree still grows lofty and
majestically and over-looks the earth beneath.
Now, by your stamina  and magnanimous course
you have attained to the stature of manhood and
womanhood; you now are able to bless the rod by
which you were chided, and kiss the chastening
hand.
				HABIT.
	What can we say of it? Like unto stamina, if
possessed, it also is as important a trait of charac-
ter. If a person becomes accustomed to eat just
such a time of day, or just such an hour each day,


the system calls for it and craves it; just so in re-
gard to sleep; if accustomed to retire at 7, 8, or 9
o'clock in the evening, at that time the eyelids be
come heavy, and the head begins to nod.  Habit
will weave a chain around us for good or evil, that
will enslave or enrich us.  The man that has be-
come a slave to tobacco through habit, also auto-
matically, moves his hand into his pocket through 
habit.  The twig that is bent, and allowed to grow
thus, becomes fixed, and it is impossible to 
straighten it it; because it has been allowed its
habit. 
	A child that has been accustomed to allow their 
feet and hands upon other people's chairs, and 
their tongues to ejaculate oaths at the beginning 
and end of each sentence they speak, and to allow 
their face and hands and feet to be unwashed, 
have become accustomed to it, and their habit is
so fixed that awkwardness is no name for it, and a 
suitable name for them would be a "booby."  This 
is what habit has effected.  
				ORDER.
	This is another very important trait of character, 
when it is cultivated; and, having a place for 
everything, and putting things into it as they move
along; things also will apparently move into place, 
without any effort, because it has been their habit
or custom to do so, and finally disorder around 
them will be a source of annoyance, and good
order is not effected without more or less obedi-
ence.
				OBEDIENCE.
	If children are accustomed to obey their parents,
they finally move automatically, without an oppo-
site will in the mother, and it is not painful to them;
but if accustomed to question the motive each 
time, and stop to oppose, they will always be at
unrest, or, in other words, in hot water; yes, even
boiling.
	Now, what does the cultivation of these traits or 
attributes do for us?
	They qualify and help us to harmonize with
others and our surroundings.  
				HARMONY
	Is the last of our group, but none the less im-
portant, and should have a place in our collection.
In music it is an important element, and quite as
essential in the family group or circle.  Each
member of the family should harmonize with the
other, then there is no family discord.
	In arranging a bouquet, colors should harmonize.
We have what we call complementary colors; that 
is, that contrast with each other, yet they are
those that harmonize.  It is so with individuals;
they may be unlike each other, having their own
individuality, but still harmonize.  This cultivation
makes good citizens and Saints.  
	I have now collected and treated upon a group
of words, and I have so arranged them in my
bouquet that they harmonize, and if they are a 
part of the attributes of an individual, we find in 
them germs that will adorn them and fit them for
any society.  As we add to the bouquet additional
flowers, if in harmony, we beautify it, and if an
attribute is added to the individual, it is as season-
ing, spice, perfumery and luster to their existence, 
as so many additional stars to the constellation, 
which we admire because of their brilliancy and 
scintillations.  The result of the cultivation of 
these beautiful attributes will be length of days,
peace and heaven.
					DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	Written for the M. I. A. Paper of the 13th Ward,
S. L. City.


