LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
			BY M. J. TANNER.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, May 10, 1885.
	Weather pleasant. Went to church with my
cousin, who is a Methodist. The minister is a
young man and seems earnest in his profession.
Mr. Kimball came this evening, and we had a
nice visit.
	Monday, May 11. Had my photograph
taken this morning. After dinner we visited
Brooklyn, stopping to look through a large new
store. I think I never saw anything so elegant,
and so many novelties in glass and china ware;
in silks and dresses and laces, and in furniture
of all kinds. Each story had a specialty, and
we could go up by elevator or stairs. There is
a beautiful parlor, where ladies can sit down to
rest and look out over the main floor; a dress-
ing room leads from it, fitted up with every
necessary convenience. I have been through
several fine stores, but never saw any like this
one; it is like a museum to go through it. At
each landing we are met by a gentlemanly
clerk, who inquires what he can do for us. We
say we do not wish to buy, but came in to
look at the store. He shows us through as if
visitors were an everyday occurrence. It is a
very pleasant pastime, walking through the
stores, but, like all pastimes, it has some draw-
backs. We ask very few questions about prices,
that being a matter in which we are not par-
ticularly interested; prices are marked in many
instances. When we were tired of walking
and looking around, we took a horse car and
went home.
	Tuesday, May 12. Weather pleasant. Had

[Column Two]

the headache this morning, but felt better after
breakfast. We get tired and warm with walk-
ing, and the draught of the cars gives us a
cold. We are planning a trip to New York
but cousin Charlie comes in and proposes a
trip to Ocean Beach, on the New Jersey coast,
where his aunt lives. She is my cousin, and I
decide to make her a visit, so I hasten to get
ready and go with Charlie. It is a pleasant
ride, and we see some nice towns und large
cities and a very pretty country. We pass
Long Branch, Ocean Grove, Asberry Park, and
a long line of beautiful seaside resorts. We
come to Springtown, where we stop, and take
a back to Sea Plain, where my cousin, Rebecca
Newman, resides. The weather is now cloudy
and chilly, and we are glad to sit by the fire.
It is a country place, and has a bleak, unculti-
vated look with some straggling woods near by;
they tell me the soil is sandy and poor, and the
salt air from the sea is not favorable to the
crops. The prospect is that in a few years it
will be built up as a seaside resort, as so many
miles of the coast has already been; but I am
surprised to see such an old country wear such
a forlorn, uncultivated aspect. The coast here
is a fine bathing and pleasure resort, and peo-
ple come from a long distance to enjoy it
through the summer.
	My cousin, Mrs. Newman, is much surprised
to see us. She is a tall, thin woman with very
keen black eyes, not at all like her sister, Mrs.
Kimball. She hastens to get us some dinner,
after which Charlie and I walk down to the
beach to see the ocean; it is called half a mile
to the beach. We cross a little patch of
woods, where a kind of brier-vine runs through
the sand, intersecting the path at intervals; I
catch my foot under one and nearly fall; I look
at my shoe, and find it badly scraped; I am
glad they are my old shoes. We gain the road
at last, which is just as sandy and hard walk-
ing. We sit down on a log and rest awhile, at
least I do, while Charlie stands around trying
to find something to say, thinking all the time,
no doubt, what a nuisance a woman is. We
walk on and reach the coast at last. It is a
grand thing to stand on the coast of the
Atlantic Ocean. Before us stretches a vast ex-
panse of water. I have seen so many pictures
of the ocean, that it does not seem new to me.
The waves come bounding in from the dark
blue, or, perhaps, green sheet of water, which
reaches out to meet the horizon, and at the
farther edge is a ship with sails stretched,
which looks as if it might fall off. I cannot
blame people of olden times for thinking the
world was flat; it certainly looks flat as far as I
can see, and the sky comes down like an over-
turned bowl. Behind us stretches the shore,
low, sandy, and with here and there an inlet or
pond of salt water, left by the rise of the tides.
One such little lakelet is being enlarged, and
the banks graded, with a nice carriage road
sweeping around it, and on a sign post we read,
“Lake Como.” I do not suppose it presents
any likeness to its illustrious namesake, but,
no doubt, in a few years it will be a very pretty
place.
	The beach, as far as I can see, is low and
sandy; about a quarter of a mile to the left is a
very pretty cottage, and a little way to the
right is the Life Station. The sand is white
and clean; it is damp from the constant washing
of the waves, which are now at high tide, and
come dashing over the sand in a way to make
us jump to keep from getting our feet wet; they
spread out over the sand and are gone so quickly
that I cannot dip my hand in them, though I
try several times; I pat my hand on the wet
sand and taste to see how salt the water is.
They roll themselves back, leaving everything
clean and dry, until they come bounding in
again as before. I try to think of the things
I have read as I stand looking for the first

[Column Three]

time on the grand old ocean, and I remember
these lines of Tennyson’s:
	
	"Break, break, break! on thy cold grey crags, O sea!
		But the tender grace, of a day that is dead,   
	Will never comeback to me."

	I could sit for hours watching the waves
dash and break, but, unfortunately, there, is
no place to sit, and standing is tiresome after so
long a walk. The breeze is so cold that it
rather destroys the sentiment. We walk along
the sand for awhile, gathering pebbles and
broken shells, washed smooth by the action of
the water; I pick up a piece of white bees’ wax,
and I try to weave a romance, wondering how
it came to be thrown up by the waves, and
whose fingers have pressed it, and how many
miles of sea it has traveled? While we stand
there the proverbial barefooted boy approaches,
suspenders broken and pants rolled up; he is
hailed by my companion as Charley, and is in-
troduced to me as a sort of cousin; he is a
grandson of my cousin Rebecka’s. We get
very sociable, and he has considerable informa-
tion to give about the surrounding country; he
is well posted, for his short life has been spent
there, and he is quite able to “talk.” We
realize that the farther we go, the farther we
have to return, so we decide to go to the house,
and reluctantly turn our steps. My cousin’s
husband is at home; his name is Joseph New-
man; he is also her cousin; her maiden name
was Newman, and her mother was my father’s
sister; he is very pleasant and sociable. We
have fried clams for supper. I am very tired
and retire early.
	Sea Plain, Wednesday, 13. Weather cloudy.
Had fish for breakfast. Never ate fresh salt
water fish before; they are small fish called
porgies. The regular fishing season has not
set in yet, but cousin Joe is fixing his boat and
getting ready, for he is a fisherman. He is one
of the unlucky kind, who never get forehanded; 
if he sells a piece of land he soon sees it re-
sold at enormous profits, and other people
getting rich from his hard earnings. He seems
a sort of happy-go-lucky, and takes the world
easy. His wife is all nerve and ambition; if
things were only reversed—but “so goes the
world.”
	Cousin Joe and Rebecka and Charley go
with me for a walk to the beach; Rebecka says
she has not been there before for two years.
We go to the Life Station and the keeper
shows us through the house. We see the life
boat, the life car and breeches buoy, the lisle
gun and projectile, with the shot line, the
whip line and the hawser, the sand anchor
and the crutch. The sand anchor is a heavy
plank, which is buried three or four feet deep
in the sand; a double rope, called the strap, is
attached to the anchor, and coming up through
the sand has a pulley attached to it. The shot
line is attached to the projectile, which is shot
from the gun; the whip line to the shot line,
and then comes the hawser; the projectile
reaches the ship and is hauled in by the crew;
a tally board is fast to the line; the board is 14
inches long and 4 inches wide, with large
letters printed in English on one side and
French on the other, giving directions what to
do. When all is ready a signal is given, the
life car is swung on the hawser, and the crutch
put under the strap to raise it from the ground;
this is drawn back and forth from the land to 
the ship by means of the whip line. The life
car is very light, shaped like a melon, and so
covered that the sea water cannot dash in.
	It takes eight men to man the station, and
they stay there eight months in the year. They
are disciplined and drilled regularly. The
captain or keeper has $700 a year; the rest are
hired by the month. Everything is kept very
clean and is placed on wheels ready for imme-
diate use. The keeper very kindly shows us
these things and explains their use. He takes


us through the house and up on the lookout,
where we have a fine view of both ocean and
beach. We walk along the sands and pick up
pebbles and shells; it is low tide now, and there
is considerable bank between the water now
and where it washed at our feet yesterday, but
the same restless waves came dashing in with
the same low, murmuring sound, and I feel a
peculiar fascination as I reluctantly turn my
steps to leave it, and think that probably I
shall never come here again.
	Coming back through the woods, we sit down
on the steps of an empty house. It is a sum-
mer residence for some one who brings his
family from a large city to spend the summer
months by the sea-side. There are two of them
just alike. I am told they belong to brothers,
but the season is so backward that people are
not yet seeking their sea-side resorts. We get
back to the house very tired. After dinner
Mr. Newman takes me to call on their married
daughter, Mrs. Gifford, after which we call on
Mrs. Slocum. Cousin Netta Kimball said I
must be sure and visit Aunt Fanny Rogers,
and here I am told that I must be sure to see
Aunt Fanny Rogers before I leave. I hear so
much about her, that I feel quite a curiosity to
see her.


