NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher has given the
Soldiers’ Home at Leavenworth 2,000 books
from her husband's library.
	Mme. Janauschek, the actress, has been
awarded $12,000 damages for injuries received
by falling down stairs last year at an hotel in 
Newport, R I., which compelled her to cancel
all her engagements and disband her company.
The corridor of the hotel, it seems, was not
lighted, and Mme. Janauschek fell to the bot-
tom of the stairway and broke her right
wrist.
	Mrs. Eliza Garfield, the late President's
mother, who has just died at Mentor, O., aged
eighty-six, was born in New Hampshire, and
moved to Ohio with her husband in 1830. A
log cabin was built and a farm partly cleared;
but her husband soon died, and Mrs. Garfield
was left to struggle with many difficulties. She
faced them heroically, refused to send her elder
children out to work among the neighboring 
settlers, toiled with her own hands to keep them
together under her own eye, and from her they
received the first rudiments of an education.—
Ex.
	The Jubilee Memorial to the Queen in favor
of stopping the sale of liquor on Sunday has
only just been handed in.  It was signed by
1,132,608 women, and is said to be the largest
ever presented. Among the ladies who 
waited on the Home Secretary with it were
John Bright's sister, Mrs. Bright Lucas, Presi-
dent of the British Women's Temperance
Association, aud Mrs. Temple; the Bishop of 
London. They mentioned the significant fact
that in one small town, where there were forty-
two liquor-sellers, the wives of all but four had
signed the memorial.
	In the spring of 1860 Mr. Trollope became
acquainted with George Eliot and G. H. Lewes.
His impressions of the former are given in the
following passage of his "Reminiscences:" "She 
has been compared to the portraits of Savon-
arola (who was frightful), and of Dante (who
though stern and bitter looking, was handsome).
Something there was of both faces in George
Eliot's physiognomy.  Lewes told us, in her
presence, of the exclamation uttered suddenly
by some one to whom she was suddenly pointed
out at a place of public entertainment—I be-
lieve it was at a Monday popular concert in St.
James’ hall. 'That,' said a bystander, 'is George
Eliot.' The gentleman to whom she was thus
indicated gave one swift, searching look, and
exclaimed, sotto voce, 'Dante's aunt!' Lewes
thought this happy, and he recognized the kind
of likeness that was meant to the great singer of
the ‘Divine Comedy.’ She, herself, playfully
disclaimed any resemblance to Savonarola.
But, although such resemblance was very dis-
tant—Savonarola’s peculiarly unbalanced coun-
tenance being a strong caricature of hers—some
likeness there was.  Her speaking voice was, I 
think, one of the most beautiful I ever heard,
and she used it conscientiously, if I may say
so."


