	AUNT JERUSHA ATTENDS A
		COOKING SCHOOL.
	In their great anxiety to start Aunt Jerusha
home, her nieces forgot to enclose in her travel-
ing bag the cook book they had promised her.
Such an omission, though very trivial to them,
was of more importance to their aunt, for she
had promised herself the rare treat on the way
home of "inspectin the thing and enjoy in it."
And so, when fairly seated in the cars and
awaiting the start, she began searching for
the book, and found it missing, what should she
do but gather up her traps and return to town,
reasoning to herself as she walked along in the
following manner:
	"It don’t make much difference, no how, fur
my ticket’s good fur two weeks, and this is only
the ninth day sence I left, and no one’s ex-
pectin me, and James is as good in the house ter
look after things as an ole woman; and I guess
sister and them girls will be mighty glad ter
see me comin back if it is only fur a day more.
I declar, at first I didn’t like them girls much,
I thought them so proud; but the way they
worked fur me the last two days wuz just as-
tonishin, and no wonder, with so much agoin
on, they furgot that thar book; I pretty nigh
furgot my specs and several things in the hurry
of gettin off.”		
	The consternation of the girls, when Aunt
Jerusha entered the house and carefully laid
down her traps, and proceeded to take off her
bonnet and shawl, can scarcely be described.
	“Why, Aunty,” they cried out, “what’s the
matter? You surely were in plenty of time?
Has anything happened?”
	"Nothin;” Aunt Jerusha cooly replied, seat-
ing herself and smoothing out her dress,
“nothin has happened, only you furgot ter put

[Column Two]

that cook book of yourn in the bag, and as I
aint in no particular hurry to git home, I jest
thot I’d come back and git it, and spend another
day with you, as thar’s no knowin when I’ll
git to cum agin. Whar’s your mother?”
	“Oh, she’s gone to the Club, and we are
going to the Cooking School, so you will have
the house all to yourself, and can read the book
all you please.” This pert little speech might
have offended Aunt Jerusha had she been any
other than the dear old common sense woman
that she was, but she very properly refused to
notice any insolence in her young nieces, “con-
siderin,” as she herself honestly states it, “their
age and breedin,” and answered them in a still
more astonishing manner, by announcing her
willingness to accompany them to the school:
	“I allus have thot, ever sence you fust spoke
of that school, that I’d like ter go along once
and see what it wuz like, and now’s a right
splendid chance, so hustle along, girls, and git
your things on and let’s be off.” 	
	There was no alternative; Mina tried to get
out of going, but her sister could not have the
whole burden of taking Aunt Jerusha among
their fashionable friends placed on her, so they
resolved to endure it together, consoling them-
selves with the thought that they were a little
late, and as order would be called, and all in-
tent on the cooking lesson, there would be no
chance for talking; but the place has not yet
been found where Aunt Jerusha did not find a
chance to talk and make the best of it, too.
On entering the room among the ladies of ton,
with their stylish and extravagant costumes
partially concealed behind a large new kitchen
apron, with book and pencil in hand and eyes
watching the master, with his large white cap
and long apron, his sleeves partly rolled up,
and his hands holding out a pound of butter,
Aunt Jerusha made a low curtsy, and having
said “how dye” in a voice loud enough to be
heard by all, turned to the white robed man
and said:	
	"I hope, mister, I aint intrudin, but my
nieces here has talked so much about this here
school, that as I wuz stayin in town another
day, havin furgot the Cook Book they gin me,
and cum back fur it, I jest thot I’d cum along
with em ter-day and see whut kind of a cook
you wuz; you know I kinder pride myself on
my housekeepin and cookin, and if a man kin
beat a woman like me a cookin I’d jest like ter
make that man’s acquaintance.”
	After this neat little introduction, Aunt
Jerusha sat down, quite pleased with herself;
but her nieces, perceiving the suppressed smiles
on the assembled faces, and noticing the whis-
pers passing around, were anything but pleased,
and would have given the world if they had
remained away, but they whispered to their
Aunt not to say anything more, as all talk on
anything but the lesson subject was out of order.
"Sakes alive, children,” she replied, in a loud
and audible whisper, “you don’t think I cum
here ter talk and show off my knowledge, do
yer? Course not; I want ter see how much the
man does know.”
	Silence being now obtained from Aunt
Jerusha’s corner, the master proceeded thus
with the lesson: “Ladies, we will to day take
puff paste. First write down the recipe in your
note books. One pound of flour; one pound of
butter, wash the butter free from salt and work
it to a roll as soft as your dough will be, mix
with your flour an ounce of the butter, then
pour on enough water to mix up to the proper
thickness.” As the teacher dictated the recipe
he proceeded with the mixing of the dough
and Aunt Jerusha rose from her seat when the
water was poured among the flour on the
board, fully expecting it to run on the floor.
"I say, mister, don't you mix your dough in a
pan?” “No, madam, I never use a pan for pie
crust.” “Wal, I declar, ef thet don’t beat me
how yer keep your floor clean, but mebbe yer

[Column Three]

don’t hev ter scrub it yourself, so don’t care
how much mus yer make; I guess the women
does the scrubbin and cleanin up while you
cook and do sech things.” A frown from
the teacher, a smile from the pupils and a
sigh from the nieces followed this tart remark,
when the master proceeded; “work the dough,
or cloth, as we term it, up smoothly, then roll
out on the board to the thinness of an inch,
spread the butter over three fourths of the 
cloth, leaving one fourth clean; when smoothly
spread lay the clean part over the butter, then
bring the lower part up over, and proceed to
roll. Roll out two or three times lightly, then
fold in a small roll, lay a tea towel over and
place in the larder or some cool place for fifteen
or twenty minutes.” The master then pro-
ceeded to prepare some oysters, giving the fol-
lowing recipe: “Beard the oysters and if large
halve them; put them into a saucepan with a
piece of butter rolled in flour, some finely
shred lemon rind, a little white pepper and
milk, and a portion of the liquor from the fish;
stir all well together, let it simmer for a few
minutes, it is then ready for your patty tins,
which shall be shortly prepared with the puff 
paste.”	
	Aunt Jerusha sat quite speechless during
this part of the lesson, much to the gratifica-
tion of her nieces, who dreaded any pause
in the lesson for fear she would again say some-
thing to annoy the teacher. He again took
out the paste and rolled it as before, calling
this the second roll, and again placed it away, 
in the wait preparing fruit for the pies; this
was done twice more, making four rolls in all,
and then the tins were covered with the paste,
the oysters and fruit put in, and the covers
placed over, and all put in the oven; in a few 
minutes they came out, a light brown, and five
times the size they were when placed in—the
oyster patties.	
	Well, Aunt Jerusha never saw such flakey, 
light pie crust; she rose from her seat in delight;
and said, “I ax yer pardon, mister, and declar
ter goodness I never before see the like of that;
ef rollin and waitin four times'll make dough
cum up that way, I think I’ll try myself. We
only take, to home, a pound of flour and mix
about a quarter of a pound of lard in it, and 
mix it with nice cold water, and roll it out and
spread about as much butter as lard, and fold
it over and roll it in, and fold, and then that’s
about all, and it’s pretty good pie crust, too,
but nothin like yourn.”	
	“Yes, madam, that is a very good recipe for
short paste, and is much used for ordinary
cooking,” replied the master. “Now, ladies,
you have three recipes: Puff Paste, Short Paste
and Oyster Patties, and that is quite sufficient
for one lesson.”
	The girls didn’t mind this last speech of their
Aunt’s much, as it showed her knowledge some,
and hurried the lesson along instead of retard-
ing it, but they hurried her home for all that,
and she was more than willing to go, for she 
wanted to try immediately, before forgetting
the recipe, the making of Puff Paste, and she
did make it, and succeeded beautifully, so that
the girls and their parents had some fine pies
for supper, and did not regret that evening
that Aunt Jerusha returned and accompanied
them to the Cooking School.		A. W. C


Prof. Maria Mitchell ranks with Caroline
Herschell, these two being the most distin-
guished of women astronomers.  Miss Herschell
announced the last of the eight comets dis-
covered by her in 1795, and the next comet
discovered by a woman was seen by Maria
Mitchell in 1847.  Prof. Mitchell's original in-
vestigations and observations have included
valuable examinations of the nebulae, and much
work connected with the coast survey and the
compilation of the Nautical Almanac.—Ex.


