EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I wish to place before your readers a few inter-
esting remarks by Elder R. H. Ford, now on a
mission to England.
	He visited some distinguished gentleman and
ladies, who gladly heard the words of life and
salvation; amongst the number was Earl Russel,
to whom he paid a visit, and on leaving him he
thanked him much for his visit, and said he had
enjoyed it. He has had much persecution on ac-
count of the apostates, but is doing much good
in baptizing precious souls and administering to
the sick. I will give you a copy of a letter:
MY DEAR CHRISTY:
	In and as pertaining to mortality, and I am
sorry to say not in the Gospel, I thought at first I
would treat your cruel letter to me, which I re-
ceived a few days ago, with contempt, but you are

[column 2]
my own sister, and my duty to God and you de-
mands otherwise, hence this epistle.
	First; I married my wife honorably, after she
had been a widow twelve years. The Scrip-
tures say, “Let no man put away his wife save for
fornication,” and Mr. Jarman’s wife, who is now
my lawful wife, by the laws of God, and just laws
by an enlightened nation put him away, and freed
her from a wicked man, full of every vice and
wickedness, and now she knows the contrast be-
tween a good and bad husband, and that by a
God-given right to protect His daughters. You
have insulted a servant of God, and also the same
God that sent me to proclaim the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel in all its primitive
glory, majesty, effulgence and grandeur and
spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghost, that the sheep
that know the Master’s voice may no longer be
driven away and about by every wind of false
doctrine of man and creeds, based on traditional
errors of an apostate church.
	You say that you do not believe in miracles, and
that your God is not a God of miracles; you have
told the truth in this, for your God is not a God of
miracles and power, but is as much a nonentity as
your senseless creed describes Him in the first
article of your faith, which says you “believe in a
God that has neither body, parts, nor passions."
What kind of a throne can hesit upon? Answer;
a topless throne. No right hand for Christ to sit
by, no finger to write on the tables of stone, no
body, in whose image Christ was the‘express
image, no mouth to speak, no attributes.
	Lucifer, the founder of all false creeds, who was
cast out of heaven with the one third that consti-
tute the spirits, Paul speaks of thus: “In the lat-
ter times or days many shall depart from the faith,
giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of
devils.” Lucifer represents that, being named in
the first article of your faith, being as cast out of
heaven and could not take a body, and he has
founded the great heap of teachers. Paul speaks
of having the form of godliness, and denying the
power thereof, as you do; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth; preach-
ing for hire and divining for money, while I and
my brethren, the Elders of Israel,like the glorious
apostles of old, come forth without purse or scrip-
trusting in God, dropping our net like Peter of
old, suffering many privations for the love of souls.
If I was proclaiming to my nation a fabrication and a
lie,God would not answer my prayers as He does,
nor would He answer as He has done sacred
ordinances of His house, administered by my
hand as a legally and duly authorized Seventy and
Elder in Israel. I will cite you two instances out
of many, in all humility, and not boastfully. A
Sister Sims has a son of fourteen summers, he
had a violent attack of cholera-infantum, and was
suffering excruciating pains; I was led by the
Holy Ghost to call on her; she had sent for a doc-
tor, who had sent word that he could not come,
but would call in the morning. She, on my
arrival that evening, asked me, as an Elder in the
Church of Jesus Christ, to anoint him and pray
over him, and lay my hands on him, as recorded
in James, last chapter—it will do well for you to
read this. I anointed the boy and prayed over
him, and laid my hands on him, and in the name
of Jesus Christ, and by virtue and authority of the
holy priesthood in me vested, rebuked the disease
from his body, and blessed him with life and
health, and God stretched forth His holy arm and
healed him up, yea, raised him up. as recorded in
James, and word was sent to the doctor next morn-
ing not to come. You can write to Mrs. Thomas
Sims, and she will testify to you and give God the
glory for a restoration of the Gospel after a silence
of 1806 years, with all its gifts.
	A sister, a poor woman that I baptized on the
30th of September, 1887, who is truly born of the
water and Spirit—she had the same complaint that
the woman had who touched the hem of the


Savior's garment, whose legally authorized ser-
vant I am—and the doctor said he could not cure
her, but he could only in a measure help, by check-
ing the flow of blood she threw up so copiously 
every time she coughed, as well as other channels.
At her request I administered the holy ordinance
to her, and she has not taken any more doctor's
medicine, and has neither discharge, nor has she 
coughed up since, and is getting well fast, being
restored to health by the power of God, the God
of miracles, the Father of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ, and my Father in Heaven and the
Father of you His rebellious daughter. He
or she that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.
but he or she that believeth not shall be damned. 
Read, Mark last chapter, 16th verse. You will
never see these things until you are born of the 
water and of the Spirit; God does not call licen-
tious men to the ministry, nor acknowledge their
administration.
	I am doing much good in the strength of the
Lord, building up the broken-hearted and setting
the captive free, sacrificing home and a loving
wife and comfort and friends. Send me back the
book I gave you, as you say when you die you do
not want to be contaminated with anything
belonging to a Latter-day Saint or Mormon. Well,
if you die with those sentiments you will have
your wish granted you, for there is only one place
you can go to and not be contaminated with the
presence of a Latter-day Saint, Mormon or
mighty Prophet; for when you knock at the gates
of heaven in vain for admittance, Brigham Young
will be there, and his wives and children. Isaiah
says, 4th chapter, 1st, 2nd and 3rd verses, "Seven
women shall take hold of one man, saying, we
will eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away our
reproach And in that day shall the branch of
the Lord be beautiful and glorious." Is not Isaiah 
a holy prophet? Acts, 3rd chapter, 19th, 26th and 
21st verses, "And He shall send Jesus Christ,
whom the heavens must receive until the restora-
tion of all things which God has spoken by the
mouths of all His holy prophets since the world 
began." And Christ Jesus will not come to reign
until all these laws are restored again, and the
ordinances that an apostate church, a false
Christianity has done away with by their senseless
form; breaking the ordinances, changing the
everlasting covenant, denying the power of God
and teaching the people that God is not a God of
miracles.
	Now, the time is close at hand when the Jews
will all be gathered back to Jerusalem to witness
the second reckoning or advent of Christ and the
Ten Tribes from the north, and when He comes,
which will be soon, yea, as a thief in the night,
you will, if you do not speedily repent, be 
amongst the foolish virgins, with no oil in their
lamps, too late to borrow of the woman you desig-
nate as vile, and the man you are pleased to call 
such vile names, because he is not a salaried
minister preaching for hire.
	Say, do you expect to go where Jacob is, with
his four wives, Abraham, with his wives, who was 
a friend of God? Do you expect to enter the
gates of the New Jerusatem, when it comes down 
from God, on which are the names of twelve 
sons of Jacob by his four plural wives? God
will say to men that make kept-mistresses of
women instead of wives, and those that rebel
against the patriarchal order of marriage, "Get 
out, ye hypocrites, ye workers of iniquity, ye deny
the great order of procreation, that gave the noble
sires their bodies that surround my throne, and
whose names are written on the golden gates of
my holy city."
	I must now say good bye. Repent before it is
too late.
			Your sorrowful brother,
								R. W. F.


