ANNIVERSARY. 

	Minutes of the annual meeting of the Y. L. M.
I. Association of the 17th Ward, held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Ettie Ellerbeck, Jan. 25,1888, Prest.
J. C. Howe presiding.


Meeting opened by singing, “The Lord will
provide.” Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A.
Freeze. Continued by singing, “We’ll sing all
hail to Jesus’ name.” The roll call was omitted,
to save time. Minutes of the annual meeting of
1887 were read and accepted. The programme
consisted of sketches of the nations, as typified
by parts of the great image which Nebuchadnezzar
saw in a dream. The sketches were interspersed
with songs and music. Programme carried out as
follows: Reading, 2nd chapter of Daniel, Mamie
Leaver; Piano Music, Margie Dwyer; Sketch of
Bybylon, as typified by the head of gold, Emma
Ellerbeck; Song, Viola Pratt; Media and Persia,
typified by the breast and arms of silver, Allie
Merrill; Song, May Preston; Sketch of Mace-
donia, as typified by the belly and thighs of brass,
Lizzie Smith; Song, Maud Pratt; Sketch of Rome,
as typified by the legs of iron, Ella Dallas; Music,
Emma Ellerbeck; Essay on the ten toes of the
image, and the little stone cut from the mountain
without hands, Emma Finch; Song, Mrs. Louie
Felt and Lizzie Smith. This concluded the pro-
gramme. 
	The resignation of Mrs. Sadie Howe, as Third
Counselor in the Association, was offered and ac-
cepted. She was honorably released from this
position, being unable to attend to the duties of
the office on account of home duties.
	A motion was made and seconded that Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beattie act as Third Counselor to the
President of the Association; the motion was
carried by unanimous vote.
	The Association was then addressed by Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, M. I. Horne, Presendia Kim-
ball, Sarah M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, Mary A.
Freeze, B.W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Y. Dougal,
Dr. Maggie Shipp, Mary P. Young and Mattie H.
Tingey. Each expressed herself grateful for hav-
ing had the opportunity of being present. All
had enjoyed the exercises, and offered many en-
couraging and instructive remarks. Loving words
were spoken to the memory of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, who was present at the last annual
meeting. Each visitor asked God’s blessing upon
the President, her Counselors and the members of
the Association.
	Sister Presendia Kimball spoke in tongues; the
interpretation was given by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Closing remarks were made by President
Howe. The programme for the regular meeting
of February 1st was read.
	The meeting adjourned for one year. Closed
by singing, “The Millennial Dawn.” Benedic-
tion by Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	At the close of the meeting all partook of sup-
per, prepared by the young ladies. A pleasant
time was enjoyed by all, for all felt that they had
enjoyed a feast temporally and spiritually.
