[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: Colonial Dames of America | Author: Unknown]

COLONIAL DAMES OF AMERICA.
	The National Society of Colonial Dames
of America, at their recent annual meeting
in Washington, voted to send Mrs William
Reed, of Baltimore, to the Paris Exposition,
to represent the society at the unveiling of
the statue of Washington. A resolution
also was adopted suggesting that the
societies of the several states extend their
researches as far back of the Revolutionary
period as possible, and secure letters and
papers preserved in families relating to the
earlier Colonial times. Miss Wharton, of
Washington, read a paper showing that the
society had purchased a large number of
historical houses, principally in New Eng-
land, and had encouraged patriotism among
the school children throughout the country.
	Officers for the coming year were elected
as follows:
	Mrs. Howard Townsend, of New York,
president; Mrs. Gillespie, of Pennsylvania,
first vice-president; Mrs. Herbert Claybourn,
second vice-president; Mrs. Samuel Cole, of
Connecticut, third vice-president; Mrs.
William Reed, of Baltimore, secretary; Miss
Jackson, of Baltimore, assistant secretary;
Miss Elizabeth Nicholas, of Washington,
treasurer; Miss Emil Richter, of New
Hampshire, registrar; Miss Wharton, of
Philadelphia, historian.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.

	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton. South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1900.


