What is Being Done for our Children By Annie D. Palmer Come to me, oh ye children, For I hear you at your play, And the questions that perplexed me Have vanished quite away. Ye are better than all the ballads That ever were sung or said; For ye are the living poems And all the rest are dead. ?Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. This is the children's hour. Today is the children's day. Recently, the entire time of a ward sacrament meeting was given over to a Primary conference. The chapel was packed to capacity. A child of six offered prayer. Little folks who lisped Dutch, and others whose broken dialect was Danish, took part on the program along with those who spoke our English plainly. There was halting and forgetting on the part of some, and original pronouncing on the part of others. But the officers were pleased and the audience praised the conference. It was not an unusual event. There are wards many, throughout the Church, in which a sacrament meeting each year is given over to the Primary.? The first grade class room in a Church training school was crowded with visitors. The teacher was to demonstrate the presentation of new material on a religious subject. According to custom, she asked if some one would volunteer to offer prayer. The visitors looked at the frightened children, the children looked at the throng of strange grown-ups. No one volunteered. The teacher offered prayer and proceeded with her lesson. When the visitors were gone, she told the class in her quiet way that she was very much disappointed in them on account of the prayer. She isn't very sure about how much her audience got out of the demonstration, but she was thrilled when at recess six-year-old Jane clasped her hand and confided: ?I'm very sorry, Mrs. ?????; and I won't ever disappoint you again. You can ask me to pray whenever you want me to, an' I'll do it." Thus organizations of the Church are most effectually supplementing the religious teachings of the home; but usually they are least known where most needed. 
 What is true in religious activity is equally true from the standpoint of other needs. In order to be his best, to develop to the fullest measure of his possibilities, every child should have a normal home life. That means he should be physically sound, and that he should have opportunity for education, for recreation, for vocational preparation for life, and for moral and spiritual development. Time was when the boy who could not keep up with his class in school just lagged along until he was altogether too big for his grade and quit. Now a. Social agency becomes interested in this particular retarded boy and consults a dozen experts in order to find the cause of his backwardness, to remove his handicaps, to find the place where he may best fit in, and so get the good there is for him in life. A few years ago, a child could attend school ragged and dirty, dull-eyed, pale, hungry?could attend two days per week or five, could be prompt or tardy. Little was said about it to the child and nothing to those from whose home he came. Today the attendance officer, the relief worker, the school nurse, may all happen in during the course of an afternoon to learn why a little child should be the victim of parental neglect. In days long past, an urchin might be partially deaf, might be near-sighted or cross-eyed, might have a crooked arm, or a twisted knee, these were his misfortunes. If his parents could afford it and had enough sense, they had a doctor. If not, it was nobody's business. So thorough is the health work of the present generation that even a severe case of freckles might be prescribed for. There must be no_physical handicaps. No half-seeing eyes, no adenoids to dull the sense, no ugly teeth to poison or fret, no crooked limbs that can be made perfect. If the parent is able to pay for corrective measures, the pressure from many angles becomes so great he can not resist it. If he can not pay there may be other relatives. Otherwise, there is the Clinic or the ever faithful family physician who gives his service for humanity's sake. In the field of recreation, too, there has come a great change since the time when lads spent whole afternoons on the sand banks by the 'old swimmin' hole." Their play is planned now and supervised. There are picnics with the Sunday school, and hikes with the scouts or bee-hive girls, and excursions with the teachers; and dancing is taught, and music and singing. For childhood must be happy, if life is to be useful?happy without being wrong. But, as in religion, there are those along the byways who have not heard, or having heard are not able to understand, so in the other good services of social work, there are those to whose WHAT IS BEING DONE FOR CHILDREN 197 hearts the message has not come. Notwithstanding all the varied interests of public agencies, the trained social worker sees in these homes of the children, her most perplexing problem. A home can not be a normal home with an income that is inadequate nor with a homekeeper who is inefficient. And yet there are family groups everywhere that subsist almost upon bread alone, and houses in which the chief occupation of the mother is to "nearly bust your head if you don't hush up this very minute." And in these abodes are disease and dirt and ignorance. The child's opportunity for education is hampered by malnourishment, by unfit clothing, by lack of cleanliness, by irregular school attendance, by physical ailments that can be cured. By these same handicaps, his way to legitimate recreation is barred, and he is turned loose to forage among garbage heaps, or "swipe" an apple or a doughnut at the corner grocery. As to vocational preparation for life, the child from this kind of home is branded as "no good" tong before he reaches the stage for any vocational training. And so when he is old enough for work?perhaps long before?he enters the ranks of the unskilled and repeats the history of his father with odds against him of a sharper competition. We have mentioned briefly the boy. With the girl, it is even worse. For how is one to learn motherhood and homekeeping in a shack, with a teacher who has never seen a home? And how is she to get experience in planning for family comfort when the mother does not know an hour ahead whether there will be a meal to cook or a few left-overs handed in by some kind neighbors? Such a family was visited recently by the writer. When the door was opened to admit the visitor, the mother stood, with her family of seven close around her, all open-mouthed and staring. They were unwashed, unkept, ragged. The room contained nothing in the way of furniture?a few rags strewn about, some old boxes, and dirt. And these waifs in ten or fifteen years from now will be at the head of seven other family groups. Is it any wonder that the social workers' effort is mostly spent in the interest of children? We can listen with much less concern to the story of an aged woman who "bootlegs," or an old couple whose home is much neglected, and whose conduct does not conform strictly to the moral code. If such are in want, we may give relief; but it were energy wasted to even try to change their way of life. The condition must be tolerated until the kind angel of death smoothes out the dismal way for them. It is children who are at once our greatest hope and our deepest despair. Have we painted our picture dark? It is not too dark to be real. It would Iork hopeless, but for the light that glimmers 
 through the dull vista?the light borne aloft by men and women whose hearts have been turned to the need of these, the least among Christ's little ones. All over the land has been heard the call for organized effort in caring for the unfortunate child. All over the land is felt the need for skilled service in the solving of his problems. It is a very gratifying fact, that Relief Society women of the "Mormon" Church are in the front ranks of welfare workers in our state and nation. No people in the world are more vitally interested than they in this field of service. And so we may look hopefully into the future, while we unite our energies for better methods and bigger accomplishments. For what are your children to be, father? What are your children to be? Men noble and true? It depends upon you, They are following you, you'll agree. And what are your children to be, mother? What are your children to be? By your curse or your song, You can guide them along To be demons or saints?can you see? So what are your children to be, parents? What are your children to be? They will walk in the light If your conduct is right? By its fruit men shall know the tree. "Necessary" List of Books Furnished for Children Under Sixteen Education Centers Help to Compile List for U. S. Kiddies Washington, Nov. 26?(U. S.)?A list of 40 books that all children should read before they are 16 has just been compiled by the Bureau of Education. Some of the lists used in making the final choice were prepared by The National Education Association; The Children's Librarian's Section of the American Library Association; The Dean School of Education, Chicago University; and Teachers College, Columbia University; The Massachusetts Department of Education; Three lists which were compiled by direct canvass of the children in three large city schools. Little Women by Louisa M. Alcott ranked first on 11 lists. Others in the list are, Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe; Tanglewood Tales by Nathaniel Hawthorne; Uncle Remus by Joel Chandler Harris; Anderson's Fairy Tales, by Hans Anderson; Jungle Book, by Rudyard Kipling; Alice in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll. Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson; Just So Stories, by Rudyard Kipling; Heidt, by Johana Spyril; Arabian Nights; Adventures of Odysseus, by Fabriac P. Colum; Oregon Trail, by Francis Parkman; Hans Brinker, by Mrs. Mapes Dodge; Tom Sawyer, by Mark Twain; Swiss Family Robinson, by Johann David Wyss; Merry 'Adventures of Robin Hood, by Howard Pyle; Captains Courageous, by Rudyard Kipling; Boys King Arthur, by Sir T. Mallroy; Ivanhoe, by Sir Walter Scott; Aesop's Fables; Water Babies, by Charles Kingsley; Child Garden of Verse, by Robert Louis Stevenson; Waster Skylark, by John Bennett; Little Men, by Louisa M. Alcott. Little Lame Prince, by Dinah Craig Mulock; Gulliver's Travels, by Jonathan Swift; Boy's Life of Abraham Lincoln, by Helen Nicolay; Story of a Bad Boy, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich; Huckleberry Finn, by Mark Twain; Prince and Pauper, by Mark Twain; Grimm's 'Fairy Tales; Story of Mr. Dolittle, by Hugh Lofting; Wonderful Adventures of Nils, by Selma Lagerlof; Joan of 'Are, by L. M. Boutet De Monvel; Rebecca of 'Sunnybrook Farm, by Kate Douglas Wiggin; Man Without A Country, by Edward Everett Hale; Men Of Iron, by Howard Pyle; Understood Betsy, by Dorothy Sanfield; Bog of 'Flanders, by Ouida.