Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman CIVIC IMPROVEMENT Big Horn Stake. For many years the people in the Big Horn stake thought their soil not adapted to flower culture, consequently there was little or no incentive to plant flowers and shrubs. A few women, courageous enough to challenge these untoward conditions, tried some hardy varieties and were delighted with their success. With this evidence of achievement at hand, the Relief Society stake board used flower culture as a teacher's topic, in order to encourage the women to beautify their homes, suggesting that a feature of the summer conference be a flower exhibition. At the convention which was held last August, in the Lovell West ward chapel, a beautiful commodious building, flowers were placed on display from practically every ward in the stake. Tubs, huge pails and boxes, the receptacles of the flowers, were made resplendent with gorgeous zinnias, dahlias and cosmos. Large fragrant sweet peas, of vivid colors, and phlox in pastel shades with marigolds as large as breakfast plates made bright the scene. Roses and pansies and flowers of other varieties completed an exhibition of a truly surprizing nature. But what was even more Pee ane than the exhibition, 
 was the improved condition of the town. Almost every yard was a blaze of color, making attractive and beautiful the simplest homes. Logan and Cache Stakes. Early last spring the Beautification committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Logan asked the Relief Societies. Of the Logan and Cache stakes to sponsor an organization for civic improvement. As a result an organization was effected with the following officers; chairman, secretary, and a publicity committee, consisting of four sub-committees to act on survey, information, flower shows and devices. A committee of three was appointed in each ward Relief Society with a Relief Society board member as chairman. The duty of the committee on information was to furnish information on plants in their season, care of bulbs, lawns, eradication of weeds, etc. This information, and general articles on beautification were furnished the local paper by the committee on publicity. The committee on devices suggested ways and means of sustaining public interest. The committee on survey kept informed on conditions of homes and public grounds. Monthly meetings of the committees were held, presided over by the general chairman. Monthly flower shows were held to stimulate an interest in the work. Every Relief Society member pledged herself to keep her front lawn and walks clean to the middle of the street, also to raise a flower garden. This pledge was quite generally lived up to. In September the Second ward, at their work and business meeting, had a flower show as a climax to their Summer's work and the beginning of the Fall work. Seventy-five vases of flowers were brought by Relief Society women of that ward, who had raised them in their own gardens. The display was arranged beautifully, and surpassed any show that had been held. A short program was given and refreshments served. Every Relief Society woman feels that another year will be more successful in the campaign for cleaner grounds and more flowers. The last two summers many of the Logan women have had the opportunity of taking courses at the U. A. C. Summer school on nutrition and diet, under Dr. McCollum of the Johns Hopkin's University, also under Miss Alma Binzel, on child training. This has been a great help to the mothers, together with the health center, in developing sturdy and healthful children. The health center is open the first Wednesday every other month, and then the month between a round table discussion NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 is held with the mothers on matter taken from Hygeia, a journal of individual and community health, published by the American Medical Association. The reaction from this work is very encouraging and gives promise of being decidedly helpful in the promotion of community health. Malad Stake. When Mrs. Ella J. Richards, formerly of Salt Lake City, and now president of the Relief Society of the Malad stake, went to live in Malad, six years ago last June, she suggested to the women of the community that they all join forces and - clean up and beautify the town. Accordingly the work began the following autumn with Mrs. Richards in charge. The chairman canvassed the business district and obtained eighty dollars. She then went to the public school and asked the principal to organize some "Clean-up Squads," which was done immediately. The one gathering the largest pile of tin cans received ten dollars, and the one gathering the largest pile of weeds received ten dollars. The prizes were then graded according to the amount of refuse gathered. This encouraged the children and they worked like beavers. The Mayor of the town came to the assistance of the women by sending teams to remove the rubbish from the streets. The following season the committee advertised a Flower Fair and offered prizes for the best house plants as well as cut flowers. They arranged four tables the length of the amusement hall and the wonderful display was a great surprise to the people of Malad. The committee offered a prize for the residence having the most attractive surrroundings, and for the street having the fewest weeds. The Mayor of the village was asked to donate a silver cup for the first prize. He did this very willingly. The committee secured the services of Mr. Emile Hanson, of the Utah Agricultural College, to go to Malad and judge the flowers and inspect the town, and he did some very helpful work for the community. Many changes have occurred in the community since the Civic Committee commenced its work. Four flower fairs have been held inall, the town has its first garbage cans, fly campaigns have been conducted, and the first children's playground has been started. It is the intention of the committee to try to get a large window on Main street in which to display the tulips and different flowers when they are at their best. It is interesting to note that Mrs. Richard's own home won the cup last year for the residence having the most attractive surroundings. 
 HOME HYGIENE AND CARE OF SICK Through the courtesy of the Salt Lake county chapter of the Red Cross, and under the supervision of the Civic Center in Salt Lake City, a series of courses are being given at the Center in Hygiene and Home Care of the Sick. The course consists of sixteen lessons given semi-weekly, and the tuition is $3 which includes the text book. A Red Cross certificate is given for the work. Many Relief Society women in the city and county are availing themselves of this excellent training which prepares them to care for the sick in their homes. Mrs. Wm. C. Howe, a graduate nurse with long years of experience and special training, is the instructor. Jordan Stake. Due to the long distance from Jordan stake to Salt Lake City, special arrangements were made for the course to be given at Sandy. Forty-one registered for the work and the class represented eight of the Jordan stake wards. So successful was the class and so interested are the women in this locality, that a second course is being arranged for with twenty already registered. Several who took the work would like to go on and study nursing professionally. At the close of the class a social was held, during which a number of the members expressed appreciation for the excellent instructions given by the teacher. Light refreshments were served. Oquirrh Stake. Oquirrh stake was also favored with a course, which was given locally at Magna. The class was held in the new ward chapel. There were twenty members enrolled for the work, all of whom were Relief Society women. Three of these women were forced to drop out on account of sickness. The other seventeen will receive certificates. All were well pleased with the course, and feel that they gained a great deal through having attended. Juarez Stake. A very successful conference and teachers' convention was held in Juarez stake in February, the teachers' department following the outline presented at the last group convention. The Dublan and Chihuahua wards have recently held successful bazaars for social as well as financial purposes. 'The ward presidents are cooperating closely with the bishops in their welfare work. The wards are all carrying out a program in maternity and child welfare work. NOTES FROMTHE FIELD 205 Shelley Stake. The Shelley First ward has made an excellent record in obtaining subscriptions to the Magazine, for 1926, securing 103%. Congratulations to Shelley First ward. Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake Relief Society held an annual social and teachers' convention, December 4, 1925, in the recreation hall, Eureka, at which time three one-act plays, and three select readings and musical selections were given. All wards in the stake participated. At the close of the program, luncheon was served to about two hundred people. Me Beaver Stake. Health conferences are being held under the direction of the stake Relief Society officers. Early in September a large number of Relief Society workers participated in a stake temple excursion to St. George. One of the larger Societies donated $700 toward the erection of a new ward chapel recently completed, and also purchased a new piano for the Relief Society hall. In this Society a contest is now going on among the district teachers. The scoring points are: regular attendance at Relief Society meetings, at stake union meetings, and sacramental meetings; visiting districts monthly; and the use of the teachers' topics. The winning division will be' entertained by the divisions losing out. As a result the attendance at all meetings has greatly increased and visits of teachers is 100%, and a much better preparation is made on the teachers' topics. One of the other large Societies recently presented a pageant: Grandmother's Dream, from Infancy to Old Age; also a play representing the sons and daughters, the fathers and mothers, the grandfathers and grandmothers, the great grandfathers and great grandmothers, in which the members represented all the characters. The presentation was so highly appreciated that it had to be repeated, and in the two entertainments the Society netted about $160. In one of the small wards the women of the Relief Society had three swimming parties with the Bee-Hive girls during the summer. Most of the Societies have held bazaars which have been very successful in raising funds. At Christmas time each missionary in the field is remembered with $5 or more from the ward Relief Society. Much good was accomplished in 1925 through the various courses that were taken by two delegates during leadership week in Provo, early in the year. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIME (Continued. ) JESUS?THE DISPENSATOR A. His name. Theologically, there is but one Jesus, the one of scriptural promise, the one whose name in heaven and on earth means, "God with us." (See Matthew 1:21-23.) This name indicates what Mes was before he came to earth and what he is and ever will be, God. In the light of this scripture we may understand Abinadi, the Nephite prophet, who declared: "And now Abinadi said unto them: I would ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people." Mosiah 15:1 The name of Jesus is a holy one, and any approach toward its desecration is pitiably degrading to the one who does it. Reverential use of this name is evidence of re'igious sincerity and Christian culture. B. Evidence concerning his parentage. 1. His Father was God. We are all the spiritual children of God but Jesus was the only child begotten of God by a mortal mother. "And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth." John 1:14. 2. The mother of Jesus. The mother of Jesus was a virgin betrothed to a man of ideal character, a man of sincere spirituality and refined humanity. His justice would not permit him to take Mary to his home and live with her as a wife with evidence against her faithfulness, and his mercy would not consent to her being publicly humiliated. He could not accept her, but he would not denounce her. He would jo as much as he could to help, and little as he could to hurt He planned seclusion but God's messenger removed from Joseph's mind the cloud of error, and he with Mary became the guardian of something more than mortal. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 207 How faithfully he kept his trust is shown by his solicitude for Mary and implicit obedience to the instructions of that guardian angel who read the murderous mind of Herod and directed the flight of the holy family into Egypt. This Joseph was a character whose conduct proclaimed him a nobleman on a par with his glorious opportunities. The mother of Jesus was the woman of all women, the highest elect of God. Jesus declared himself to be the Son of God but he spoke frequently of himself as the "Son of Man," in acknowledgement of the mother's part of his being. He was the Son of God by his Father and the Son of Man through his mother. C. His birth. Little wonder that Herod was greatly infernal in the answer to the inquiries of the students of the stars. Their question, "Where is he that is born king of the Jews?" startled him. This tyrant king was, no doubt, aware of the predictions made by Jacob in blessing Judah: "The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be." Gen. 49:10. The Babe of Bethlehem, born of Mary, was the Shiloh, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the Prince of Peace, the only King of Israel to remain in office forever. D. Some evidences of the Divinity of Jesus. 1. Testimony of mortals. A. Men. 1. Simon in the temple. "And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for himvafter the custom of the law, "Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 'Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word: for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." Luke 2:27-30. 2. John the Baptist. "The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. "This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. "And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. "And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending 
 from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. "And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. "And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God." John 1:29-34, 3. Peter on the way to Philippi. "And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Matthew 16:16, 17. B. Women. 1. Elizabeth at her home in the hills. "And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" See Luke 1:39-43, 2. Anna in the Temple. "And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser; she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity; "And she was a widow of about four score and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day. 2 "And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem." Luke 2:36-38. 3. Martha at the home in Bethany: "She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the: Christ, the Son Of God, which shou'd come into the world." John 11:27. (Jesus accepted Martha's belief as true.). Testimony of Angels. A. Gabriel to the virgin Mary: "And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS. _ "He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: "And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end." Luke 1:31-33. "One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 209 the Messias which is, being interpreted, the Christ." John 1-40. "Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! "Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. "Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel." John 1:47-51. B. The Angel with Heavenly Choir. "For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. "And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." Luke 2.11-14. 3. The Voice of God the Father. "And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: "And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Matthew 3:16, 17. 4. The testimony of the Holy Ghost. A. By its presence at the baptism of Jesus. B. Through Peter, in personal testimony. 5. Testimony of Jesus Himself. A. To his mother?"I must be about my Father's business." "And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. "And he, said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" Luke 2:48, 49. B. To Martha?"I am the resurrection and the life." "Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall. Never die. Believest thou this?" John 11:25, 26. C. To the High Priest?"'So I am." "But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 
 "And Jesus said, 'J am': and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven." Mark 14:61, 62. D. To the Man who was Born Blind. "The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. "Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. "Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. "Tf this man were not of God, he could do nothing. "They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. "Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 'He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? "And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee." John 9:30-37. E. To the public assembly?"I have power to lay down my life and power to take it up?" "Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father." John 10:17, 18. When he said, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends," Jesus, recognized the power of man to lay down his life, as many men and women have done for great causes and for their friends. But to no mortal had ever been given the power to take up his or. Her life again?Hence, his resurrection was the culminating testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ. Problems and Questions 1. Discuss the proposition:?Jesus resisted temptation as a man, but he overcame death as a God. 2. Prove that devils testified to the divinity of Jesus. 3. On what occasion did the Holy Ghost testify as to the divinity of Jesus Christ? See Mark 5. 4. In what way was the acceptance of Martha's belief and GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 211 Peters' declaration as true, an indirect testimony of Jesus himself concerning his divinity? 5. Discuss the testimonies of the Latter-day Saints as a multiplicity of the testimony of Peter concerning the divinity of Jesus Christ. 6. Relate the circumstances of Jesus being condemned to death for declaring himself to be the Christ the Son of God. See Mark 14. 7. What ground is there for a belief that angels of both sexes took part in the announcement of the birth of Jesus? ) LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE (Second Week in June) HOME TALKS Brigham Young I. Main facts of his life: Birth and parentage. Early education and training. - First connection with "Mormonism." Connection with exodus from Missouri. Connection with exodus from Nauvoo. Apostle and President. AT. Main facts of his work and mission: 1. Deliverer and leader of his people. 2. Community builder. 3. Statesman. 4. Prophet. III. Principle traits of his character: 1. Vision.?Ability to look ahead. 2. Executive ability. 3. Devotion to his religion. 4. Strong sense of justice. 5. His approachableness. SR Se Sayings of Brigham Young: If you are faithful to your calling let me tell you there are no blessings contained in the-celestial law of the kingdom of God, but what you will have a privilege to enjoy. 
 We are nothing, only what the Lord makes us. Without the light of the Spirit of Christ, no person can truly enjoy life. My religion must be with me from one Monday morning to the next, the year around, or it will not answer me. The object of this existence is to learn, which we can only do a little at a time. _Never serve God because you are afraid of hell: but live your religion, because it is calculated to give you eternal life. It points to that existence that never ends, while the other course leads to destruction. I want to say to my friends that we believe in all good. If you can find a truth in heaven, earth, or hell, it belongs to our doctrine. We believe it, it is ours: we claim it. References: "Biographical Encyclopedia"?Jensen. "Historical Record''?Jensen. "History of Utah"'?Whitney. "Life of Joseph Smith'?Cannon. "One Hundred Years of Mormonism"?Evans. A Lady By Amy Lowell You are beautiful and faded, Like an opera tune Played upon a harpisichord; Or like the sun-flooded silks Of an eighteenth-century boudoir. In your eyes Smoulder the fallen roses of outlived minutes, And the perfume of your soul Is vague and suffusing, With the pungence of sealed spice-jars. Your half-tones delight me, And I grow mad with gazing At your blent colors. My vigor is a new-minted penny, Which I cast at your feet. Gather it up from the dust That its sparkle may amuse you. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 213 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) AMY LOWELL Amy Lowell, the poet, whose death occurred about a year ago, belongs to the famous Lowell family of Massachusetts. She was the sister of A. Lawrence Lowell. President of Harvard University, which family produced James Russell Lowell, the poet, a few decades ago. The name Lowell suggests other Massachusetts names such as Cabot and Adams, so that if we admit of aristocracy in America, it surely rests with those old families. The people who knew Miss Lowell say that she was what one would call a large woman, yet she had the dainty hands and feet usually attributed to an aristocrat. It is probably well known to a good many people in Utah that Ada Dwyer Russell, the daughter of James Dwyer, well known pioneer book dealer of Utah, has been for many years the sympathetic and beloved companion of Miss Lowell, and that she is now on her estate looking after Miss Lowell's literary and property interests. Amy Lowell was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, February 9, 1874. Her father was Augustus Lowell and her mother Katherine Bigelow Lowell. Her life has been given over largely to lecturing and writing poetry. She is an exponent of the new poetry and has waged war continuously against the group who think that the new poetry should not be given a place in literature. Inasmuch as Amy Lowell is the first one of the new poets that we have introduced to our readers, perhaps it is only fair that we discuss new poetry for a moment. Louis Untermeyer, who is prominent among the new poets, feels that there is no given matter of mechanics in poetry that need be insisted on. To illustrate his point he calls attention to the Psalms suggesting that in the King James' translation of the Bible they might be regarded as prose because of. The form, while in Moulton's Literary Bible they look like poetry. Nevertheless, they are the same in either case and the Psalms are exalted enough in theme and expression to be poetry, whether their appearance is that of prose or poetry as the eye sees them on the printed page. In any event, it has long been proved that rhyme is not essential in poetry. Amy Lowell is what critics call an imagist, which is another way of saying that she appeals to the senses, the. 
 eye, the ear, taste and feeling, through the medium of images for the most part very beautiful, but not always so. Mr. Untermeyer says that Miss Lowell should have been a painter, for she is a poet of the external world, which means, she makes word pictures, or to repeat the idea in other language, she is a colorist in words. This issue of the magazine is devoted to children, Miss Lowell has written a number of childrens' poems two of which we shall include: THE CRESCENT MOON Slipping softly through the sky Little horned, happy moon, Can you hear me up so high? Will you come down soon? On my nursery window-sill Will you stay your steady flight? And then float away with me Through the summer night? Brushing over tops of trees, Playing hide and seek with stars, Peeping up through shiny clouds At Jupiter or Mars. [ shall fill my lap with roses Gathered in the milky way, All to carry home to mother. Oh! What will she say? Little rocking, sailing moon, Do you hear me shout?Ahoy! Just a little nearer, moon, To please a little boy. THE TROUT Naughty little speckled trout, Can't I coax you to come out? Is it such great fun to play In the water every day? Do you pull the Naiads' hair Hiding in the lilies there? Do you hunt for fishes' eggs, Or watch tadpoles grow their legs? Do the little trouts have school In some deep sun-glinted pool, And in recess play at tag Round that bed of purple flag?
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215
I have tried so hard to catch you, Hours and hours I've sat to watch you: But you never will come out, Naughty little speckled trout!
"Miss Lowell obtained her early education through private tuition and travel abroad. These European journeys were the background upon which much of Miss Lowell's later work is unconsciously woven; her visits to France, Egypt, Turkey and Greece bore fruit many years later in the exotic colors of her verse."
Patterns is a good illustration of the idea expressed in the above quotation from Louis Untermeyer. We shall include part of the poem:
PATTERNS
I walk down the garden paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills. I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. With my powdered hair and jewelled fan, I too am a rare Pattern. As I wander down The garden paths.
My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver strain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders. Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes. Not a softness anywhere about me, Only whalebone and brocade. And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion Wars against the stiff brocade.
The daffodils and squills Flutter in the breeze As they please. And I weep; For the lime-tree is in blossom And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom. And the splashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain Comes down the garden paths. The dripping never stops.
Underneath my stiffened gown


Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin, A basin in the midst of hedges grown So thick she cannot see her lover hiding, But she guesses he is near. And the sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear Hand upon her.
What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown! I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground. All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground. I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths, And he would stumble after, Bewildered by my laughter. I should see the sun flashing from his sword-hilt and the buckles on his shoes. I would choose To lead him in a maze along the patterned paths, A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover. Till he caught me in the shade, And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me, Aching, melting, unafraid. With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops, And the plopping of the waterdrops, All about us in the open afternoon? I am very like to swoon With the weight of this brocade, For the sun sifts through the shade.
In a month he would have been my husband. In a month, here, underneath this lime, We would have broke the pattern; He for me, and I for him, He as Colonel, I as Lady, On this shady seat. He had a whim That sunlight carried blessing. And I answered, "It shall be as you have said." Now he is dead.
In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. The squills and daffodils Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow, I shall go. Up and down In my gown.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217
Gorgeously arrayed, Boned and stayed. And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace By each button, hook, and lace. For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders, In a pattern called a war. Christ! What are patterns for?
Word painter that Miss Lowell is, like the nature painters of today who uses canvas and pigment, it is nature above all else that she delights to portray, consequently you will find all through her writings that she is constantly with nature. The poem characterized as a "Fragment" begins by asking What is poetry? We include it, as it is a very good example of the type of poetry Miss Lowell writes:
FRAGMENT
What is poetry? Is it a mosaic Of colored stones. Which curiously are wrought Into a pattern? Rather glass that's taught By patient labor any hue to take, And, glowing with sumptuous splendor, make Beauty a thing of awe; where sunbeams, caught, Transmuted fall in sheafs of rainbows fraught With storied meaning for religion's sake.
Fragment is possibly the best description in literature of the stained glass windows of the great cathedrals of Europe. In line with the verse just quoted is a poem called "Song."
SONG
Oh! To be a flower Nodding in the sun, Bending, then upspringing As the breezes run; Holding up A scent-brimmed cup, Full of Summer fragrance to the Summer sun.
Oh! To be a butterfly Still, upon a flower, Winking with its painted wings. Happy in the hour. Blossoms hold Mines of Gold Deep within the farthest heart of each chaliced flower.


Oh! To be a cloud Blowing through the blue, Shadowing the mountains, Rushing loudly through Valleys deep Where torrents keep Always their plunging thunder and their misty arch of blue.
Oh! To be a wave Splintering on the sand, Drawing back, but leaving Lingeringly the land. Rainbow light Flashes bright Telling tales of coral caves half hid in yellow sand.
Soon they die, the flowers; Insects live a day; Clouds dissolve in showers; Only waves at play Last forever. Shall endeavor Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today?
"The Green Bowl" is another example of Miss Lowell's unique style and is equally characteristic.
THE GREEN BOWL
This little bowl is like a mossy pool In a Spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow, Nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees; A quiet place, still, with the sound of birds, Where, though unseen, is heard the endless song And murmur of the never-resting sea.
'Twas winter, Roger, when you made this cup, But coming Spring guided your eager hand, And round the edge you fashioned young green leaves. A proper chalice made to hold the shy And little flowers of the woods. And here They will forget their sad uprooting, lost In pleasure that the circle of bright leaves Should be their setting; once more they will dream They hear winds wandering through lofty trees And see the sun smiling between the leaves.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219
Miss Lowell passed away at her home at Sevenels Brookline, Massachusetts, May 12, 1925. Her body was cremated and buried in Mt. Auburn cemetery where James Russell Lowell and Henry W. Longfellow are buried. Many poets have paid tribute to Miss Lowell since her death. We include one tribute of recent date written by Countee Cullen:
She leans across a golden table, Confronts God with an eye Still puzzled by the standard label All flesh bears: Made to die! And questions him?if he is able To reassure her why.
Questions and Problems
1. Name a prominent person from the Cabot family, and one from the Adams family of our time. (If the names of these people do not occur to you after a reasonable amount of thought, let the question go unanswered.)
2. Do you think Miss Lowell's poems written for children would appeal to children? If so, why? You may experiment by reading the poem "Trout" to a boy who likes to fish and see how he responds.
3. Select the words that suggest color in the poem entitled "Fragment."
4. Interpret the line "With storied meaning for religion's sake."
5. Explain how a butterfly can wink with painted wings, and how a blossom can hold mines of gold.
6. It has been said frequently of Alfred Tennyson, that he is very fond of the sea and the moon. Do you find evidence in Amy Lowell's poems that she, too, is fond of the sea and moon?
7. Explain the line "Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today."
8. Read to the class Annie Pike's poem to Amy Lowell's Keats, published in the magazine.
Two of the best books we can recommend to our literary class leaders are "Modern American Poetry," by Louis Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York; and "New Voices," by Marguerite Wilkinson, published by the MacMillan Co., New York.


LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
This and three following lessons will deal with intellectual or mental problems of childhood. It is the purpose of this introduction to outline the developments made by psychologists in the analysis and measurement of intellectual powers. This second division of our text, which has the title "Intellectual Problems" limits the discussion to the nature of intelligence. It does not attempt to discuss mental upsets or emotional strains that lead to mental diseases. The problems presented will be ones dealing with native capacity, inherent powers, special abilities or disabilities?and not with problems of the pathological or "sick" mind.
Individuals are not all born with the same abilities. Some persons have a natural brilliance or genius. Others have ability to do ordinary things and manage to live fairly comfortably. Still others are dull and backward, and find the burden of earning a living or caring for a family overwhelming, others are so handicapped that they never learn such simple performances as walking, talking and eating. Intelligence varies from genius to actual mental deficiency.
During the last twenty years there has been considerable study of the nature of intelligence. Psychologists have devised certain tests by which intelligence is measured. The standard test is known as Terman's revision of the BinetSimon test. This test is a series of problems arranged according to their difficulty, a six-year child should be able to perform the problems at the six-year level. A sixteen-year individual should be able to do all the tests on the sixteen-year scale. The tests are designed to measure native ability?not knowledge gained by education. If an individual at sixteen years of age can do only the tests at the eight-year level, he is measured fifty per cent. The psychologists express this relation between the real age and the mental age as Intelligence Quotient. (I. Q.) The person who measures the same mental age as his real or chronological age has an (I. Q.) of 100. The psychologists classify individuals according to their I. Q. The table generally accepted is as follows:
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221
Values Ascribed to the I. Q.
Below 25?idiot. 25-50?imbecile. 50-70?moron. 70-80?borderline of mental deficiency. 80-90?dullness. 90-110?normal (average mentality). 110-120?superior. 120-140?very superior. 140 and above, "near" genius or genius.
Individuals whose I. Q. is found to be below seventy are considered below normal intelligence. The two lowest classifications, the "idiot" and "imbecile" usually require custodial care. While there is no institution for this group in our state, a limited number are cared for in a colony at the State Mental Hospital. At present there are facilities for about ninety, which is entirely inadequate for the needs of the state. Only the most helpless are admitted at present.
The groups classified as "morons" present a different type of problem. They often can do routine or mechanical performances very efficiently. Under supervision, they can make a fair social adjustment. They frequently get into difficulties, just as a child of eight or nine would, if he had to assume the responsibilities of a grown man or woman.
Perhaps the most depressing aspect of the problem of mental deficiency is the fact that heredity plays an important part in a person's native ability. Some studies have been made of delinquent and dependent families through several generations. From the material gathered, it was shown that the lack of intelligence recurred generation after generation. Likewise, normal and brilliant persons were found to have normal and brilliant offsprings. Because there are a number of strains in any one individual, it cannot be predicted whether his offspring will be inferior or superior to himself. But as a general rule, bright, normal or backward persons each reproduce its own kind.
One of the more encouraging contributions of psychologists, in their studies of intelligence, is the recognition of individual differences. Two children of the same age who measure exactly the same mental age, may have entirely different endowments. One may be especially quick at arithmetical reasoning, for instance, and fail in the association or memory tests. The other child may have no arithmetical ability but may excel in other tests. The mental age, or I. Q., alone is not a complete index to the individual's intelligence.


An analysis of the range of the levels by years that he accomplishes as well as the types of tests at which he succeeds, must be noted in order to understand his mental make-up. In the instance of the two ten-year-old boys whose scores are listed on page 78, the difference in their types of intelligence is shown. Both have a mental age of ten years, so they both have an I. Q. of 100. The first boy X, performs all the tests at the eight-year level, and part of tests at the nine, ten, twelve and fourteen-year level. Adding the extra score (or months) that he gained above the eight-year tests, which he scored perfectly (therefore called his basal age), he made a final score of ten years. The second boy Y, could not score a perfect test above the six-year level, (his basal age) but he succeeded in some of the tests on the fourteen and even eighteen year standard. His total score, too, was ten years, but his abilities are different from those of the other boy. The Boy X, is better balanced and has good general capacity. The other boy Y, has not the general capacity of X but he has some special gift or abilities.
The discovery of an individual's special abilities is an important factor in education and training. There are children who have no ability and no interest in academic training. To them the formal work of the school-room is tedious and meaningless. These same children may be excellent mechanics, draftsmen, musicians, or artists; and, given an opportunity to develop their potentials, they become interested and happy. It is considered wise by psychologists to emphasize the individual's special aptitudes. If arithmetic is the most difficult of all the subjects to a child, it should not be the subject that is given all the attention. Perhaps it should be given the least. The time spent at profitless drill, might better be employed in developing some talent with which the child is endowed.
Formal education, as a mental discipline or training to think, is no longer accepted as sound pedagogy. Ability to reason, or remember, or to exercise good judgment cannot be acquired by training. Individuals are born either with or without certain powers. Training and education can open avenues of expression and can help the individual realize his highest possibilities; but no amount of training can make him rise above his inherent capacity. The emphasis in present day pedagogy is to offer to the individual child an opportunity for expression and development. School systems, however, do not yet have the equipment and facilities to recognize each child as an individual.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223
Children in many schools are looked upon as more or less uniform, all equally able to profit by the standardized curriculum. The bright boy who performs his tasks in ten minutes must mark time to keep at the same pace as the dull boy, who never can comprehend what he is asked to do. The bright boy's progress should not be unduly hampered. The dull boy should not be made miserable by a constant sense of failure. The success of a child in finding expression of his powers, determines largely his success and attitude throughout his life. If he meets only failure at tasks he cannot accomplish, and if he never is given the opportunity to feel the satisfaction of successful endeavor, his whole life's outlook and attitude will be colored by his unpleasant school experiences. The degree of understanding and care and guidance given the child in developing his possibilities decides how useful and successful his adult life will be.
Reference: Intellectual Problems, page 69 to 83?Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile.
Questions and Problems
1. What is meant by intelligence?
2. What is a mental test? What is meant by I. Q.?
3. Why should the lowest grades of mentally deficient be given permanent custodial care?
4. What is meant by individual differences?
5. Explain the difference in the two boys' mental makeup.
6. What provision should schools make for the exceptionally bright pupil? What provision for the child who is backward at formal school work?
7. Why should each individual be helped to discover his special abilities? Why is it important to discover these abilities in a child? 
When you Come to | Salt Lake COME. IN and let us TELL YOU all about it.