[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 704 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Emily Olsen and Nellie Green Howard | Lesson Department]
[Hobby Features— Emily Olsen and Nellie Green Howard Lesson Department]

Abraham Lincoln. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS—1835 When the Church sought to print a compilation of the revelations received by Joseph Smith by 1833, a mob destroyed the ' printing press and_ practically all of the printed material. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Vol. 1, p. 390 [called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as. DHC].) Consequently, the Book of Commandments was never available to the members of the Church, mere for a very few copies. Lesson Department On August 17, 1835, a general assembly of the Church met to agree on publishing a _ second compilation to be known as the Doctrine and Covenants. The priesthood members _present testified to the truth of the revelations. Oliver Cowdery read an article entitled "Governments and. Laws in General." The article was. Approved and ordered printed in the volume. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 243-47.) In order to present the truth concerning the Church's belief about law, because of accusations that it did not uphold the law, it was felt necessary to prepare this article. "OUR OPINION" It was printed in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants and appears' as Section 134 in the current edition. The following preamble to the article is not a part of Section 134: That our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood, we have thought proper to present at the close of this volume our. Opinion concerning the same. (D&C 134 introduction.) This article is an "opinion" and not a revelation, and therefore "does not hold the same place in the doctrines of the Church as do the revelations." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, p. 852.) On the other hand, Section 134 was presented to the Church assembled in 1835 and several times since that year as binding upon the members of the Church. 

705 September 1969

 The laws that now govern the nations of the earth will be supplanted by laws instituted by the Savior when he takes his place to reign as King of kings. (Ibid., pp. 204-05; D&C 38:21-22.) GOD-ORDAINED GOVERNMENTS The Lord raised up men to formulate the Constitution of the United States that principles of freedom might be exercised in this promised land. Only in this kind of political climate could The Church of Jesus Christ be established in the last days. The land of America was kept hid from the nations that this land might indeed be a place where divine prophecies might be fulfilled. (Ezra Taft Benson, Conference Report, October 1961, p. 69.) The perfect form of government was instituted in the days of Adam, but later the sons of men rebelled against these principles of righteousness. (Moses 5:12-13.) Although Section 134 suggests that governments were instituted for the benefit of men, it is evident that all governments are not in this category. (D&C 134:1.) The Lord does not originate laws contrary to eternal principles such as free agency. As Elder Erastus Snow said, all forms of government are bettern than none at all in that order is maintained by governments though some of them may not be the best forms. (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 22, p. 151.) Nonetheless, God controls the nations though he is not the originator of those governments. (Brigham Young, 706 Journal Vol. 6, p. 342.) of Discourses, STANDARD OF JUDGMENT The governments set up by men serve a purpose in the eternal plan by requiring men to govern their lives according to law. (D&C 76:111; 134:1.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: He [God] will award judgment or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family.... (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 596.) This statement is recognized to be true when one realizes that God is the author of righteousness and that, woven in the various laws of the _ nations, there are laws which are also found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1923, p. 47.) Also, there are many laws which are contrary to righteous principles. The framers of laws and governments are held accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making and in administering them. (Smith and Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, pp. 852-53; D&C 134:1, 6.) SECTION 134 By 1835, when Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants was prepared, the saints had suffered persecution, loss of property and lives, and their freedom of religious belief had been challenged. It is understandable why they would want their own beliefs concerning law and governments made known. This section might be divided into the following parts: (1) basic rights, (2) governments and officials, (3) religious societies and beliefs, and (4) noninterference in the rights of others. BASIC RIGHTS After the statement that men are accountable to the governments under which they live, man's fundamental rights are stated in these words: We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property and the protection of life. (D&C 134:2.) President David O. McKay has called attention to the fact that "there is innate in man a feeling that will rebel against tyranny." (Deseret News, Church Section, January 2, 1952, p. 3.) Men have come up from oppression to overthrow coercive governments. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States are examples of the declared rights of men and the protection afforded. Where there is an infringement of these basic rights, the following belief is expressed: We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and Lesson Department property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded. (D&C 134: li) Class Discussion Under today's conditions, what can we do to help preserve the three basic nghts mentioned in D&C 134:2? GOVERNMENTS AND OFFICIALS Latter-day Saints during this dispensation, and especially during the time of Joseph Smith, have had many unfortunate experiences with government officials who had not upheld the constitutional rights of the saints. The following verse points out the obligation of civil magistrates upholding the law of the land in their decisions: We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the _ respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. (D&C 134:3, 5.) In an earlier revelation the saints were counseled to uphold wise and honest men in public office; otherwise, evil would result. (D&C 928:8-10.) It may not 

707 September 1969

 always be possible to determine between the wise and the unwise, but the Lord has given some standards by which to make decisions about principles or political issues. Laws which deny men their agency (D&C 98:4-8) and those which permit them to do evil should be changed. (Moro. 7:14-19.) Class Discussion What measures should a people take to insure that their liberties are held inviolate? The history of the Church provides the answer. Despite the plunderings, mobbings, acts of rapine, and loss of property and lives, the saints followed the counsel expressed in D&C 134:11. By divine commandment the Prophet Joseph Smith appealed to the President of the United States and the Congress for redress of crimes committed against them in Missouri. (D&C 101: 81-95; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 287-94.) One is reminded that the Lord counseled his saints who had been driven from Jackson County, Missouri, in 1833 and 1834 that they were not to fight for the redemption of Zion, but that he would, in his time, fight their battles. (D&C 105:14-15.) BREAKERS OF THE LAW Those who break the law should be punished according to the seriousness of the offense. Governments have the right to regulate their societies for the preservation of peace and order. Latter-day Saints are enjoined to bring offenders against the law to justice. (D&C 134:8.) They should also sustain the 708 law enforcement arms of government that all might have justice. Class Discussion Do we as Latter-day Saint women by example encourage our children to uphold the duly appointed officers of the law? RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES AND BELIEFS Eleven years after Section 134 was written, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote the Articles of Faith. The eleventh article is as follows: "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." This same statement of belief lies at the basis of what is contained in verse 4 of Section 134. The privilege of religious worship is the right of every man, provided it does not infringe upon the rights and liberties of others. Equally so, Latter-day Saints believe that government does not have the right to prescribe rules of worship, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion. (D&C 134:4, 7.) There should not be favoritism shown for one religion over another. (D&C 134:9.) The following principles were given by the First Presidency of the Church: We declare that from principle and policy, we favor: The absolute separation of church and state; No domination of the state by the church; No church interference with the functions of the state; No state interference with the functions of the church, or with the free exercise of religion; The absolute freedom of the individual from the domination of ecclesiastical authority in political affairs; The equality of all churches before the law. ("An address, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the World," Conference Report, April 1907, p. 14.) EXCOMMUNICATION AND DISFELLOWSHIP The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that religious societies have the right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, but the punishment should not extend to taking their property or jeopardizing their lives. The penalties for misconduct in the Church are excommunication and disfellowship. (D&C 134:10.) To be disfellowshiped means that the person remains a member of the Church, but he is limited in what he may do. He may attend meetings, but he may not participate in the activities of the Church. Excommunication removes one from the records of the Church and thus he loses all of the privileges of Church membership. There are three offenses for which one may be punished: (1) the breaking of the moral law, (2) deliberate disobedience to the regulations of the Church, and (3) incorrect interpretation of doctrine when the correct teachings have been explained and the person is unwilling to accept them. (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, 1954, p. 209.) I IMPLEMENTATION Not long after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Lesson Department was organized, a conference of the Church adopted a set of principles regarding governments and Laws in general. (D&C 134.) Since then the members of the Church have accepted these beliefs as binding upon themselves. To indicate the consistency and application of that early document to the present, the following statement from President David O. McKay is given:. I repeat that no greater immediate responsibility rests upon members of the Church, upon all citizens of the Republic and of neighboring Republics than to protect the freedom vouchsafed by the Constitution of the United States. Let us, by exercising our privileges under the Constitution— (1) Preserve our right to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience, (2) Preserve the right to work when and where we choose. No free man should be compelled to pay tribute in order to realize this God-given privilege. Read in the Doctrine and Covenants this statement: "... It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another."' (D&C 101:79.) (3) Feel free to plan and to reap without the handicap of bureaucratic interference. (4) Devote our time, means, and life if necessary, to hold inviolate those laws which will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. To sum up this whole question: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and... The necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ—only thus will mankind find peace and happiness. (Conference Report, April 1950, p. 37.) 709 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all. Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not....(Mark 10:14.)... O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. (Matt. 15:28.) Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn thou not away. (3 Ne. 12:42.). Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you. (3 Ne. 12:44.) do alms unto the poor. (3 Ne. 13:1.)... [Jesus] healed all their sick, and their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among them, and raised a man from the dead....(8 Ne. 26:15.) We are deeply moved by Jesus' compassion shown to all those in need. The joy of the parents of the healed child vibrates in every heart. We marvel at the healing and ministering to those in need when Christ visited the Nephites after his resurrection. We sense their spiritual awakening and commitment as he taught them. Compassion, love, mercy, forgiveness—the scriptures bloom 710 with the flowers of Christ's teachings and love. As he looked upon the multitudes he had compassion on them for they had no shepherd. He healed the sick and raised the dead and dying but, perhaps more important than this, he fed the soul in need. To the sinner who would drink he gave the healing waters of the Spirit. The poor, the persecuted, the injured, the sinner, the prisoner, the despised, and outcast—all victims of evil felt his lasting concern. Compassion with Jesus was not a sometime thing but a way of life, a constant, instant response to need.