Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.