[Vol56 | September 1969 | Page 6 | General Feature | "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat— for Lesson | ]
["Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat— for Lesson]

Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 The: Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 September 1969