EDITOR EXPONENT;

	We deeply regret to announce the death of our be-
loved and respected friend, Sister Lizzie Eldredge, wife
of Joshua Eldredge, who departed this life November
11th, 1884.

	She was born in Salt Lake City, July 2nd, 1856, where
she was reared by her tender parents, John R. and E

llen
Winder, who taught her the principles of life and salva-
tion from her earliest childhood, the impressions o
which have never for one moment been darkened by
doubt. Her life, which to us seems but brief, has been
spent in usefulness; she has labored in the Sunday
School as Secretary since its first organization in 1877.
also in the Relief Society as Secretary since 1875, and
has been engaged in the training of the young in the
Primary Association for the past five years, where she
will, at the present, be greatly missed. Many hours of
her life were spent in visiting the aged and sick cheer-
ing them with her lively voice and helping them with
her willing hands.

	Her earnest desire was to understand the principles of
her religion and to live them, and at no time was she
heard to raise her voice in objection to one. Her teach-
ings and wise counsels will be long remembered by the
little ones of this place, and many will remember the
acts of kindness she has bestowed upon them at differ-
ent times.
	During the hours of her sickness she was tenderly
cared for by a large circle of friends, who rendered her
every possible assistance; but, God, in His inscrutable
purposes, has a greater work for her behind the veil,
where she has gone to prepare the way for those she
leaves here.

	The funeral services were held at the meeting house
on Tuesday at 11:30, being the largest assembly of this
kind in this place; The remains of the departed were
carried by six of the brethren, followed by her family,
mother, brother, sister, relatives and friends. Remarks
of consolation were offered by Bishops Nebckar, Calder,
Kimball and Moroni Pratt, after which the procession
moved to the burying grounds, where, with dedicatory
prayer, the remains of our sister were consigned to their
last resting place, there to await the resurrection of the
just.

Deceased had been married ten years the 5th of last
Oct., and is the mother of six children, three of whom
are dead; she now leaves a husband, three little ones,
her fond parents, brothers and Bisters, besides a large
circle of relatives and friends to mourn her loss. And
while we condole with our friends In this their hour of
bereavement, we would say, Be comforted, for through
the glorious principles of the Gospel we hope to meet,
our sister in the morning of the first resurrection with,
her three little ones who are with her in heaven. An ex-
ample she has left on earth for us to follow, and may


we ever strive to live as useful a life as our departed
sister, and inherit the same glory in the kingdom of our
God. 
Rest in peace, dear Sister Eldredge,
	For thy work on earth is done;
You have finished here your mission,
	And a crown of glory won.
	
You have gone your work to finish
	In the realms of heaven above,
And we hope some day to meet you
	There where all is joy and love,

Your kind teachings we'll remember,
	Strive to walk the narrow way,
Then we'll be prepared to meet you
	In the resurrection day.
	LIZZIE LAKER.
Meadowville, Nov. 19, 1884.


