	OF EMILY D.P. YOUNG.

	The following sketch of the life of one of our
faithful sisters, told in her own plain unvar-
nished style, will be doubly interesting to our
readers because of the graphic manner in which
she describes the most thrilling and pathetic
incidents that have ever transpired in the his-
tory of the Latter-day Saints. "We commend
and recommend it to our readers as one of the
most interesting pen pictures we have ever
read:
	I was born in the town of Painsville, Geauga
Co., Ohio, on the 28th of February, 1824; am
the third daughter of Lydia Clisbee and Ed-
ward Partridge. My parents were born in the
State of Massachusetts, and immigrated, while
young, to the State of Ohio, and there became
acquainted and married. My father was a
hatter, and by industry and perseverance had
accumulated considerable property and pro-
vided a comfortable home for his family, which
were seven in number when we moved from
that place. Although I was quite young when
we left Ohio (being about seven years old), I
remember a very pleasant home, such as I
have not had since.
	In the fall of 1830 four men came to my fa-
ther’s house having the Book of Mormon; they
claimed to have the Gospel which had bpen re-
stored again in the last days. Father told
them he thought they were imposters; when El-
der Cowdery, who was one of the four men(the
others were P. P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer and
Ziba Peterson), said he was thankful that there
was a God in heaven who knew the hearts of
all men.
	What they said must have made considerable
impression upon father’s mind, for as soon as
they were gone he sent right away after them
and bought a Book of Mormon. My mother
believed more readily and was baptized by Par-
ley P. Pratt. Father concluded to take a trip
to New York and see the Prophet for himsself
The following is what Brother Joseph says of
him in his history:
	“It was in Dec., 1830, that Elder Sidney
Rigdon, a sketch of whose history I have before
mentioned, came to enquire of the Lord, and
with him came that man (of whom I will here-
after speak more fully), named Edward Part-
ridge; he was a pattern of piety, and one of the
Lord’s great men, known by his steadfastness
and patient endurance to the end.”
	The Prophet baptized him in the Seneca
Lake on the 11th of Dec., 1830. He then
went to visit his relatives who resided in Pitts-
field, Mass., anxious that they should hear the
joyful tidings that so filled his heart with glad-
ness. He thought they had only to hear to be-
lieve, but oh, how disappointed he was when
they not only rejected his message, but him
also. They said he was crazy, and one of his
sisters, Mrs. Emily Dow, ordered him outof
her house and said she never wanted to see him
again. The shameful treatment of his friends
was so unexpected and uncalled for that it
weighed heavily upon his mind, but served to
strengthen him in the faith of the religion he
had espoused.
	What a bitter spirit lays hold of the unbe-
liever as soon as the truth is presented to them;
and those who profess the most religion are the
most uncharitable. When father returned to
New York, his parents sent his youngest broth-
er, James Harvey Partridge, to accompany
him, they thinking him deranged and not capa-
ble of taking care of himself. But this broth-
er, after he arrived in Painsville, received the
Gospel and was baptized. From New York to
his home father traveled in company with the
Prophet, who was moving his family to Kirt-
land, which place had been appointed for the
gathering of the Saints. Father arrived home
in the early part of Feb., 1831.		
	After his return, his old and most intimate
friends who had been anxious for him to go and
find out the truth of the reports about the
Book of Mormon because of their confidence
in his honesty and superior judgment, pro-
nounced him crazy, as his relatives had done
before when he declared to them that Mormon-
ism was true.
	The Saints began to gather to Kirtland from
all parts of the country where the Gospel had
been preached; and as we lived about three
miles from the boat landing, our house made a
good stopping place for the Saints, and we had
more or less of them stopping there from that
time on while we remained in Ohio. After my
parents had joined the Church they were
seized with the spirit of gathering, as every
body is as soon as they are baptized. They
bought a place in Kirtland, but they never
had the privilege of living there. Father was
called by revelation and ordained a Bishop on
the 4th of Feb., 1831. In July following he
was chosen, with several other brethren, to ac-
company Brother Joseph on his journey to the
land of Missouri. They reached Indepen-
dence, Jackson Co., about the middle of July.
Mother felt that her trials had commenced
when father was called to leave her at that
time. Her children were just recovering from
the measles, which disease had been brought
there by some of the Saints who were journey-
ing to Kirtland, and her eldest child was very
sick with the lung fever. It was a new thing
for her to be left alone in the hour of trouble,
or to have any responsibility outside of her
family or household affairs. But she was one
of the “staunch and true,” and knew it would
not do to put the “hand to the plow” and then
turn back. She could acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in her afflictions as well as her
blessings.
	After the brethren had located Zion and
transacted other necessary business, the most of
them returned to Kirtland, leaving my father
in the land of Zion, as he had been appointed
by revelation to labor in that place, take up
his residence there and send for his family. I
think it was something of a trial for him to be
left there, he wrote to motherexpressing great
anxiety about her and the children. It seemed
to him a very great undertaking tor mother to
breakup her home and prepare for such a jour-
ney without her husband to advise and make
the necessary arrangements for her. In those
days the Saints were inexperienced in such
things; and I think if father could have looked
forward into the future and beheld what his
family would have to pass through for the Gos-
pel’s sake, he would have been still more anx-
ious about them. But the Lord in mercy with-
holds the future from our gaze, or that portion
that would cause us unhappiness, and gives us
strength to bear the reality when it comes, even
that which we could pot bear in anticipation.
Father felt that he had a very great responsi-
bility resting upon him,and his own words that
he.wrote from Independence on the 5th of Au-
gust, 1831, to mother, who was still living in
Painsville, will better express his feelings than
any language of mine could possibly do. He
says:
	“I have a great desire to return to Painsville
this fall, but must not; you know I stand in an
important station; and as I am occasionally
chastened, I sometimes feel ss though I must
fall, not to give up the cause, but fear my sta-
tion is above what I can perform to the accept-
ance of my Heavenly Father.”-------
	Father’s business was left in the hands of his
agent, and his property, what was sold at all,
was sold at a very great sacrifice. His course
in joining the Mormon Church and sacrificing
his property, caused his friends in that place to
marvel, arid their verdict was as that of his
other friends had been before, that he was in-
sane.
	They could not see what there was in relig-
ion to make a man give up all worldly consid-
erations for it, and that is still a mystery to the
world.  And we cannot wonder at it when we-
consider how little they have in their belief to
create hope orexchange their bodily comfort
for. But ours is different; it is everything.
There is nothing too dear to sacrifice for the
hope that our religion gives us. One of my
uncles wrote, to father as follows: “You say the
world with all its pomp and show looks very
small in youreyes; I have every reason to be-
lieve it, from the manner of disposing of your
property, particularly your farm, which I learn
you have received a fifteen year-old horse for.”
It was in the fall if 1831, or the spring of
'32, that mother started with her family for
Jackson Co., Missouri, in a company of Saints
undor the direction of W  W. Phelps and A-
S. Gilbert. Mother must have had a great deal
to try her on this journey that we, as children,


[Column 1]
﻿knew nothing about. We went in a keel boat
as far as Cincinnati, then we took a steamboat
up the Missouri river.
	Once when the boat stopped at a landing, a
young woman belonging to our company fell
from the plank into the river, but was soon
rescued by the sailors. I think her name was
Electa Chamberlain. When we were within
about one hundred miles of our destination we
met the ice coming down the river so fast that
we could not proceed and we were obliged to
land at a place called Arrow Rock; a family 
of negroes let mother and Sister Morley have
one room in their log cabin; Brother Morley
was with father in Missouri, and his family
was traveling in the same company that we 
were. There was no window in the room, a
common thing in that country; the people gen-
erally receiviug their light through the open
door. But we had a large fireplace, and with
a good fire we could be quite comfortable. Both
families together numbered about fourteen per-
sons. We remained here several days,it being
cold weather most of the time. I do not know
what had become of the rest of the company,
but as far as I can remember, we were alone.
	As soon as circumstances would permit, Sis-
ter Morley and mother procured a Kentucky
wagon and the two families, with their effects,
were stowed into it, and we again started for
Independence. The weather was very cold—
so cold that we had to stop and lay by again
one day, and that day father and Brother
Morley met us and we were more than glad to
see them, for our journey thus far had not
been very pleasant. But what suffering and
privations my mother had to endure she never
complained or murmured, but rejoiced that she
was counted worthy to endure tribulations for
the Gospel sake. She felt that she had enlist-
ed in a good cause, and looked forward to the
happy time that had been promised to the
faithful Saints; and her religion compensated
her for all the hardships she had to endure.
And Aunt Lucy Morley,as we used to call her,
was one of the most patient women I ever
knew. She was truly a choice woman. Well,
after one day’s rest we boarded our Kentucky
wagon and continued our journey towards In-
dependence.
	When we arrived at our destination we were
so jammed and packed in the wagon by the
load slipping that we could hardly pull our-
selves out. I remember that when I made an
effort to get out I could not until some of the
load was removed.
	Father had rented a log room of a Mr.
Boggs, I think it was the same that was after-
wards Governor of Missouri; so we had a place
to go to and were glad to get to the end of our
journey and be again at home. Although we
did not have much of, a house to live in, we
knew this was Zion and would be our future
home. I can well imagine the feelings of our
parents when they first set their feet upon that
land; the rejoicing of their hearts as they
bowed in thankfulness before the Lord for His
mercies in bringing them to that holy place,
where the Zion of our God was to be built in
the last days.
	Father being Bishop he had the poor to
look after and provide for their wants. Houses
to rent being scarce and money and means
more so, it seemed necessary that father should
take a widow and four children into the one
room where we were living to pass the winter.
Now don’t think that we were crowded or that
the children quarreled, perhaps they did,
though I don’t remember. As soon as father
could build, he moved his family into his own
house.
	About the first thing the Saints did after
providing shelter for their families, was to start
a school for their children. The first school I
remember attending was in a log cabin  Jack-
son Co. The school was taught by Miss Nancy

[Column 2]
Carl, a young woman belonging to our Church.
Our house was near the Temple lot, about half
a mile from the public square in Independence.
Indians and negroes were plentiful in this west-
ern country, and everything was so diffferent
from what we were used to seeing. The people
were different in their customs and manner of
speaking. It was, “I reckon,” and “a right
smart chance,” and instead of carrying things
in their hands they would “toat” them on their
heads. Large bundles and baskets, churns,
tubs and piggins of water or milk, all “toated”
on their heads. Little children were "toated”
straddle of one hip. In warm weather wom-
en went barefoot, and little boys from two to
ten years old were running the streets with no-
thing on but a tow shirt. Everything seemed
to be after the backwoods style. The brethren
began to build houses and gather around them
the comforts of life. In building houses they
would have “raisings,” after the logs were pre-
pared the brethren would all turn out and lay
them up.
	We read in the Prophet Joseph’s history of
one in Kaw township, where he helped the
Coleville Branch raise their first house; the logs
being carried by twelve men in honor of the
twelve tribes of Israel. Some of the houses
were very neat, the logs being hewn on both
sides and the corners sawed smooth, and for a
log house they looked quite respectable. I had
now got to be eight years old and was bap-
tized in a large creek not far from Indepen-
dence by Elder John Corrill.
	To be Continued.


