BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
     The evening after the departure of Bishop
Whitney, Brothers Woolley and Van Cott, a
council was held at Bro. Russel's tent, where a
committee was chosen to select locations for the
winter, between the village and the Old Fort,
as sanctioned by the Indians. Committee’s
names: Fathers Eldredge and Cutler, Bro's
A. P. Rockwood, Winslow Farr and J. M.
Grant.  They started next day, though the
weather was stormy, and continued so two or
three days.	*	*	*
     "Sunday, the 30th.  Meeting was held at
the stand, commencing at 10 a.m.  Elder O.
Pratt opened the meeting by prayer and said
he would endeavor to occupy the time, by the
President's request, till he and Bro. Kimball
should arrive.  He then spoke on general mat-
ters for a while, when, the President arriving,
he said he would stop, but by his request he
proceeded.  His subject was the necessity of
education to the Elders of Israel, and to the
children in the camp.  He was followed by
Bro. Kimball, who spoke in corroboration of
his remarks, and spoke at some length on the
government of the Kingdom of God.
     Horace Eldredge, the Marshall, then arose
and told the congregation of the late resolu-
tions adopted by the council.
     President Young succeeded him, and spoke
at some length, sanctioning what Bro. Kimball
had said, and then went on treating on miscel-
laneous matters, and gave a great deal of good
instruction.  "After singing by the choir, the
meeting was closed with prayer by Jedediah
M. Grant."
     On the 14th my husband's journal mentions
B. Young, H. C. Kimball and others still be-
ing engaged in laying out city lots.
     Bro. Joseph Harvey's wife died on the morn-
ing of the 6th.  She had been very ill for some
time--"He had recently come from Nauvoo,
and had spent a great deal of his time and
substance in fitting others out for the journey
before he started himself; the consequence is
that he is very sick himself.  His wife left

[column 2]
three small children.  Bro. Kimball had him
put into Daniel Davis's tent that he might be
nearer to us, and thus have better care and
more attention paid to him."
     The next day being warm and pleasant some
of the boys were engaged in cutting and draw-
ing house logs.  Horace speaks of attending
council that evening with my father, President
Young and others of the brethren.  He says:
     "It had already commenced when we arri-
ved; they were reading a report brought by one
of the brethren who came from the Punkaw
nation; the substance of which was, that Bishop
Miller's company were located on a stream
called Running Water, or Punkaw river, and
two hundred miles from this place; that they
were uniformly used well by the Indians, had
good forage for the cattle, etc.  Bro. Grant, by
vote of the council, gave an oral report of his
visit to the village at the point.  He had seen
Mr. Sarpee and he was willing that we should
remove the ferry boat to the new place that we
had selected, as he had a Mackinaw boat of his
own that would answer his purpose.  Mr. Sar-
pee also informed him that he had lately seen
a Dr. Mann, who, he said, was at the massacre
at Haun's Mill in Missouri, and a regular
mobocrat, who told him that the State Marshal
of Missouri, with a posse, was on his way here
to arrest the Twelve.  Bro. Grant also stated
that the Secretary of War had written to the
Indian agent to have the Mormons leave the
Pottawotomie lands on the other side of the
river as soon as may be."
     He mentions seeing a letter written by Sister
Diantha Billings to "Brother Kimball's folks,
in which is recorded a speciment of Indian jus-
tice.  It appears that one of the young Pun-
kaw Indians had shot an arrow into one of
Bro. Brigham's cattle, for which misdemeanor
he was taken by the Indians of his own tribe
and whipped, his pony shot and one of his own
eyes dug out."


