SEVIER STAKE PRIMARY FAIR.
	On the 25th and 26th of September the Pri-
mary Association of this Stake held their an-
nual fair at Glenwood, and many beautiful and
useful articles were exhibited. The following
are among the most notable:
	The most ingenious article exhibited was a
complete saw mill, made by Lewis Baker, aged
13, of the first ward of Richfield, which did
good work, making lumber out of corn cobs.
Great credit is certainly due this young boy
when we consider he had never seen a sawmill,
this one being entirely his own invention. John
Jackson of Glenwood, aged 12 years, showed a
very nice cradle and chair, the workmanship
of his own hands, sawing the lumber from a
rough log. There was a fine display of minia-,
ture furniture: bedsteads cupboards, whatnots,
clothes-horses, etc., too numerous to mention.
There were wagons, wheel-barrows, rakes, and
other implements made by boys from six to
ten years. A very fine display of dressmaking
from the first and second wards of Richfield.
The millinery department was sparsely repre-
sented, one lady’s hat made and trimmed by
Ellen Oberg of Richfield, first ward. Crochet
work was well represented by Monroe and Red-
mond wards particularly. A fine display of
quilts, noticeably two from Richfield, and a
bedspread made by the Annabella Association;
a great variety of knitting and crochet in wool,
also of fancy needlework, and any amount of
plain sewing, which was done very creditably;
a good showing of very pretty rugs, some
handsome ornaments made of shells and straw,
a cross of moss and pebbles, the latter article
being the only one from Vermillion. The
cakes, pies, tarts, jellies, preserves and pickles
looked very inviting, also a good display of
fruits and vegetables.
	The afternoons of each day were taken up
with songs, recitations, and dancing by the lit-
tle ones. The partaking of cakes and lemonade
was enjoyed extremely by the children.
	Prest.A. K. Thurber honored the occasion
with a short address on the afternoon of the
first day, The Stake Prest., Sister Luey Hep
plar, did her utmost to make the fair a success.


and used every endeavor to have the little ones
enjoy themselves. Her labors are indefatigable
in stimulating the Primary of this Stake to ex-
cel in all good works.
					Celia E. Bean
Richfield.


