				BY HANNAH T. KING.

	I have just laid down the life of Margaret
Fuller.  No one who has a sympathetic soul
can rise from that life without realizing that
they are Fuller in the head, [asterisks]
and most assuredly Fuller in the whole soul!
It has absorbed me so much that it took time
to grade me down to every day life and com-
mon feeling. 
	Among her devoted friends three grand
men, James Freeman Clarke, Ralph Waldo
Emerson and William Henry Channing, have
appeared as her biographers.  These names
alone assure us she was a woman of no mean
order, and every reader of her life will certain-
ly desire to place a chaplet on her brow, or a
bouquet at her feet.  Her life, with all its glory,
throws a sadness over my spirit.  It seemed
ever one of hard struggle, yet no doubt such
a mind as hers---so rich, so full of mighty in-
telligence, was capable of making in every
portion of that life, its own Elysium; still a
film of melancholy stole over me as I read her
[--]thly pilgrimage, with her most heart rend-
ing and early death.  That alone seemed to
engulf every pleasing, delightful, proud
thought I had entertained of a woman all
must love, and more than that---admire with
devotion!  I could not feel satisfied with her
marriage, that is, the man she married, yet [--]
gained one great redeeming point in my [-]sti-
mation, that he was capable of loving and ap-
pr[-]ciating such a woman, who paid him the
great honor of bestowing upon him her heart
and hand!  It speaks well in favor of all who,
possessing great blessings and honors, have the
faculty to weigh and measure and appreciate
them.  Still I felt this marriage sealed her
destiny; here th[-] electric chain was dropped,
and her "occupation gone!" but out of the
fearful cloud that over-hung her death this
idea brought out a "silver lining."  The ways
of the Great Director of the universe are past
finding out even to the most humble and pre-
sistent inquirer; yet in some of those mysteri-
ous dispensations of Providence, that prostrate
the soul in dust and ashes, and for a time close
the doors of light and inspiration, and cause it
to sit in darkness and the shadow of death,
who has not felt that there was still a drop of
honey in the draft of gall? The soul that
leans on its God and Savior realizes this
always.
  Surely the mother of Margaret Fuller felt
this at the recital of the awful calamity that
had befallen her gifted child---aye! and that
child's child.  It seems too awful, when we at-
tempt to realize it, and make the case our own;
yet my consolation came when I pictured that
noble, that hightly and intensely educated soul
passing "beyond the gates"into that Empyreum,
the grandeur of which "eye hath not seen, ear

[Column 2]

hath not heard, nor hath it entered into the
heart of humanity to conceive," and finding by
her side the little image on which she had be-
stowed her soul's love, and probably him, also,
whom she had honored and elevated by her
alliance with him in her sublunary existence.
  Great and noble woman!  Here was they
brief nursery, the primary of thy earthly so-
journ, in which thou didst help to awaken the
world to the restoration of woman to the pedes-
tal from which she had fallen and didst
stretch out a hand to raise the mighty lever
that will yet propel women from her intertia,
her apathy, her subordination and frivolity,
her abjectness and her ignorance (all of which
will have fulfilled their mission of the curse)
and restored her to her pristine position. when
she walked forth into the garden of Eden,
		"Grace in all her steps,
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, wearing
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!"
	For this grand finale, Margaret Fuller
stretched out her hand, laid out her heart and
brain---seeing in the vision of her mind, woman
standing once again on the very pinnacle on
which her Maker placed her on the morning of
His great creation, bearing at this remote per-
iod the high and mighty title of motherhood
of the whole human race---the "bearer of th[-]
souls of men," and other titles equally glori-
ous yet to be revealed.
			THE HEART'S EFFUSIONS.
	Engulfed beneath the wave---
		The angels surely came
	And caught thee from its [---]
		In clouds of lam[---] flame.

	Yes, yes, I s[---] to know
		Tho[-] ne'er we[-]t in the sea[-]
	Thou wert prepared to  go
		Where the just and blessed be.

	Thou bright, evangel soul;
		Thy home is with the blest;
	Thy work, while ages roll,
		Shall bring thee sweetest rest.

	And we, thy sisters here,
		Will gather thy planted seed,
	And gladly help to rear
		For comers' future green.


