PLURAL MARRIAGE.

     "Yet setteth He the poor on high, from af-
fliction and maketh Him families like a flock."
--Psalms, xi, 41.

[column 2]
     "The righteous shall see it and rejoice, and
all iniquity shall stop her mouth."--42.
     This is the last time, when God will restore
all things as at the beginning.  In the days of
the ancient covenant people of the Lord, He
approved of His servants having more wives
the ceremony was the same with one as an-
other, his children were legitimate and God
blessed them.  As in the case of Abraham,
Jacob, David, Solomon and others, God blessed
the seed of plural marriage.
     Gen. XXXV, 11.  "And God said unto him:
Jacob, I am God Almighty: be faithful and
multiply, a nation, and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  Now God had this talk with Jacob
after he had lived in the marriage relation with
four wives.  Do our persecutors think that
God has changed?  He is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever.  He has again restored
this order of marriage, which is for time and
all eternity, and is in line with that holy order
established by righteous men whose posterity
is traced to the Savior's birth, through Solo-
mon, born in the marriage relation; his wives
were given to him by Nathan the Prophet.
John the Baptist was of this lineage, being a
literal descendant of Aaron.  God must have
looked upon plural marriage as being right and
lawful in His sight, or He would not have sent
His only begotten Son through their posterity.
"And the Lord God shall give unto Him the
throne of His father David; and He shall
reign over the house of Jacob forever."  Luke,
i, 32, 33.
     What, over the house of a man that lived
with four wives in the marriage relation?  O
dear! those men in the East must be horrified
when they read "the Gospel according to St.
Luke."  "And of His kingdom there shall be
no end."  Now if Christ has a kingdom He
must have subjects, and they are polygamists
and their offspring, and He calls David father
who established His throne, that great polyga-
mist; then David's son Solomon must be His
brother, and if He reigns over the house of
Jacob, his posterity must be the subjects of His
kingdom.
     We read in the New Testament that we 
must do the words of Abraham to become his
children, and God said He would be called
their God, and He was a friend of Abraham.
And the twelve sons of Jacob made twelve
tribes that God called Israel, and He has their
names written on the twelve gates of pearl, the
New Jerusalem, in which Latter-day Saints
can enter because they practice this Bible doc-
trine as God has revealed it to them before
any law was made against it.  "In that day
seven women shall take hold of one man and
shall say, let us be called by thy name to take
away our reproach, and we will eat our own
bread and wear our own apparel."  Should
not wonder if some of the wives of those who
fight against this doctrine did not plead to
be saved by one holding authority to seal on
earth and in heaven.
     Women do understand religious principle as
a general thing better than men, and they will
yet come and ask favors at the hands of those
who have power to seal on earth and in heaven
for their minister has only married them "until
death doth them part;"  and that, too, without
authority from God, they have not power even
to bind on earth.
     Let us, dear sisters, be thankful that we are
married in the Lord.  "What God has joined
together let no man put asunder."  They have
no power to put us asunder; we are married by
God's law.  Do they think that prison bolts
can sever the marriage tie?  It is ratified in
the heavens.  They ask us a true question, are
you this man's wife?  When were you married?
They have to acknowledge the true coin to get
hold of the handle.  It reminds me "And the

[column 3]
writing was, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of
the Jews."  The Jews wanted it changed but
had not the power.
MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, Oct. 20, 1884.


