RUDGER CLAWSON'S SPEECH. 

	The court was duly opened at 10 o'clock. 
	Mr. Dickson (addressing the court) said:  This
was the hour appointed, if your honor please
for judgment in the case of the United States, 
versus Clawson. 
	Mr. Harkness—We know of no reason why
your honor should not proceed to pass judg-
ment. 
	Mr. Bennett—I wish to state to your honor
that in the matter of moving for a new trial we
have, after mature consideration and delibera-
tion, decided not to make such a motion, but to
rely upon our bill of exceptions.  
	The Judge altered his minutes accordingly.  
	Judge Zane then said—Mr. Clawson:  Will you
stand up, if you please?
	Mr. Clawson thereupon stood up and stepped
to the clerk's desk.  
	Judge Zane then said—You were indicted in
this court upon an indictment charging that you
have been guilty of polygamy on the days
named in the indictment by marrying Lydia
Spencer while your former wife, Florence Ann
Clawson, was still living.  In the second count
of that indictment you were charged with un-
lawfully cohabiting with two, Florence Ann
Clawson and Lydia Spencer.  To that indict-
ment you entered a plea of not guilty, and the
jury was sworn to try the issue, and after hear-
ing the evidence, and argument of counsel, 
found you guilty on both counts of the indict-
ment.  Have you any legal cause to show why
judgement should not be pronounced upon you?
	Mr. Clawson.—Your honor, since the jury that
recently sat on my case have seen proper to find 
a verdict of guilty, I have only this to say why


judgment should not be pronounced. I very
much regret that the laws of my country should
come in contact with the laws of God; but when
ever they do I shall invariably choose the latter.
If I did not so express myself I should feel un
worthy of the cause I represent. The Constitu-
tion of the United States expressly states that
Congress ahall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof. It cannot be denied, I think,
that maraiage,when attended and sanctioned by
religious rites and ceremonies is an establish-
ment of religion. The law of 1862 and the Ed-
munds law were expressly designed to operate
against marriage as practiced and believed in by
the Latter-day Saints. They are therefore un-
constitutional, and of course cannot command
the respect that a constitutional law would.
That is all I have to say, your honor.
	Judge Zane, it is said by those present, seemed
much surprised at Mr. Clawson’s speech and
it was some little time before he spoke; after
making quite a lengthy speech upon the evils of
polygamy and strongly asserting that the law
against it must be executed, Judge Zane pro-
nounced the following sentence upon Eider
Clawson.
	“I shall,therefore,fix your punishment, on the
first count for polygamy, by a fine of $500, and
imprisonment for the term of three years and six
months, and on the second count, for unlawful
cohabitation, I will fix your fine at $300, and
your imprisonment at six months, the imprison-
ment in the last count of the indictment to be-
gin at the termination of the imprisonment on
the first count. The judgment will be entered
by the clerk accordingly.”
	The judge refased to admit Rudger Clawson
to bail,although he has since admitted others to
bail accused of a most heinous crime. Such is
the consistency of those who execute the laws
against the Mormons. Elder Clawson, inno-
cent of sin, was committed to prison the same
evening and put with criminals guilty of the
blackest crimes. But God judgeth all and He
will take care of His servants who are willing
to keep his laws and abide by His command-
ments.
	On Friday, Nov. 14, Bro, Clawson came to the
city to attend the Supreme Court, having been
brought there on a writ of habeas corpus ob-
tained for that purpose. The case was argued
during the day, but not finished. Mr. Kirk.
patrick, it is said, made one of the most mas- 
terly and learned speeches that has ever been
made in the Third District Court Boom. Bishop
Clawson requested that his son be permitted to
remain at home over night, stating that a dep-
uty could accompany him and remain with him
over night, but the request, simple as it was,
was not complied with, and he was obliged to go
back for the night. This morning he was
brought up again, but is not likely to ba admit-
ted to bail, as the oflicers seem inexorable when
any favors are asked in this class of cases.


