	LETTER TO AN OUTSIDER.

	Oct.	21st., 1884.
MY DEAR COUSIN:		
	Without further preliminary than just to say 
that your letter found myself and family well,

[Column 2]
and also that this leaves us in the enjoyment of
good health, I will plunge immediately into the
subject we are discussing.
	You say that viewing it only from our spiritu-
al standpoint you can see nothing wrong in our
practice of polygamy, but viewing it in a tem-
poral way it changes its aspect; that the deg-
radation, misery and unhappiness it subject
those to who practice it must quite overbalance
all the blessings they can hope to attain in the
future by an adherence to its laws in this life.
	Now, no principle can be spiritually right and
temporally wrong; and if polygamy does not add
to a man's temporal welfare it will not yield
him spiritual blessings. If it tends to aid him
in his spiritual existence, it will also add comfort
to his temporal life; if, as you say, it brings to
thoso who practice it only discontent, degrada-
tion and misery, then it is spiritually, morally,
and legally wrong. But, I ask, does it produce
these evils we have mentioned? The world says
that it does, because the world knows nothing
about it;but we who live in it and have practiced
it for years know better. We assert that polyga-
my does not have these evils attending it,and we
ought to know. You may travel from one end
of Utah to the other and you will not find one
family who is living in this order and is subser-
vient to the laws of God prescribed to them by
Him through His servants, who have unhappi-
ness in their midst. On the contrary, they are
freer from the evils of discontent and other trou-
bles than any I know who are living in monog-
omy, and if any are unhappy in this order it is
because they have failed to render obedience to
these laws I have mentioned.
	You say that where the man who marries
more wives than one is rich or well-to-do it may
soften the rugged appearance of this principle
a little, and were the practice of it confined to
those only who are able to maintain their wives
above the reach of want it would be more in
keeping with righteousness.
	I answer, that if polygamy savors of unright-
eousness and is a producer of evils, no amount
of wealth can help the matter any or eradicate
its evils. If it has advantages and blessings
that may be bestowed upon the rich man and
denied to the poor, then I must own it is not a
principle of heaven, for our Father is not so par-
tial as to bestow a portion of His Gospel upon
the rich to the exclusion of the poor. But let
us see whether plural marriage [---] not bestow
its happiness and advantages upon the family of
the poor man and add much to their temporal
welfare.
	I will tell you of a few facts that have come
under my observation that you may understand
the idea I wish to convey—facts that I have
learned from the very poorest of polygamic
families in Utah. One of these, with whom I
became acquainted about sixteen years ago, con-
sisted of the man, two wives and seven child-
ren. They were the poorest family at the time I
speak of that I ever saw, I think; but despite
their poverty, I think they were the happiest,
too, and I wondered that this could be so. Two
or three years after my first acquaintance with
them the man took a third wife, a young girl
seventeen years of age, and I said to myself,
“How will he ever keep the wolf from the door
with these three wives and ten children claim-
ing his support, etc." The scanty means he
possessed when I first knew them had wonder-
fully increased, but then the family had in-
creased most rapidly as well, so at the time the
addition was made to his family that I speak of,
the means for their support was still very mea-
gre indeed, that is the way I considered it, but
neither the man nor his wives seemed to mani-
fest any fear of starvation.
	They all occupied the same dwelling, in fact I
do not think he could possibly have furnished a


separate home for each had they desired to live
separate from each other, which they did not
wish to do, as I learned when once, in visiting
them, I ventured to question them as to whether
they did not think it would be more congenial
to their feelings if they lived in separate homes.
The first wife answered me, saying, "Oh, no, we
could not think of living separate,  even if the
command of God to His people was not to unite
themselves and families together and be of one
heart and mind, our own speculative genius
would prompt us to unite our efforts to better se-
cure advantages in making means, saving time
and lightening our labors."
	I asked her to explain how this was done. She
said: "It takes very little more time to cook a
meal for ten than it does for five, and in like pro-
portion is all the general housework for a family
decreased when the efforts of those to be cared
for are united for the accomplishment of it. By
each of us caring for one certain part or division
of work at a time, we save a great deal of labor
and time; by eating at one table less food is re-
quired than if we eat at three tables; besides
there is a saving of fuel, as one dwelling is
warmed with less wood than it takes to warm
three. We combine three washdays in one with
less labor and soap than if we made three of it.
	We have kept an account of the proceeds
gained by this management, and from it we
have been enabled this year to buy that sewing
maching, besides providing oursleves and chil-
dren with many little luxuries that poor men
cannot think of furnishing their families. The
time gained by this unity of labor gives us an
opportunity of reading many good books which
the wives of poor, laboring men seldom think of
taking time to read."
	"Well," I ventured again to say, "since you
are already united to one man, I see you are tak-
ing the wisest plan you could to get along. Bus
do you not think you would have been just at
well off in the way of means and been more
happy if you had not entered into this system,
but had enjoyed your husband's society by your-
self?"
	"Well," she said, "we might have been just
as well off, perhaps better in the way of means,
though I doubt it; but I know I could not have
been so happy as I am had my husband not tak-
en other wives, for many reasons."
	This good woman gave me many reasons, and
plausible ones, too, why she had desired and
maintained polygamy in her husband's house,
two or three of which I will rehearse to you,as to
mention more of them would be superfluous at
this time and make my letter too lengthy. She
said:
	"I was always a timid creature, and during
the early years of my married life,, whenever my
husband's duty called him from home, which it
frequently did, for a few days, the nights during
his absence were nights of sleepless terror for
me. Being of a social nature, and having al-
ways enjoyed the society of sisters at home, I
pined for the companionship of another woman
in my own house. Further, my first children
were cross and fretful, and the care of them
wore upon my health a great deal. I rightly
attributed the irritableness of their dispositions
to the never ending cares which, owing to our pe-
cuniary circumstances, were necessarily heaped
upon me during pregnancy; since my husband
brought his other wives home, we in turn re-
lieve each other from the cares of the household
and hard labor during this period of womanhood
and we are left to seek only that light labor and
diversion that pleases us best at that time; the
result is, the children born to us now, the other
women as well as myself, are peaceful, healthy,
happy and good natured children, which is a
more glorious boon to me than all the world's
wealth would be."
	Ah, I thought, is this not one of the keys
to the mystery as to why the homes of the
polygamous Mormons are filled with such rosy
faced, intelligent children as are seen nowhere
else? And this is a fact that has been noticed
and commented upon by almost every person
who has taken a peep into the homes of the
Utah polygamists, and many have wondered
that this degrading system, as they called it,
would produce such offspring.
	"And now," this woman continued, "should
Congress pass, and the government enforce a
law upon us that would tear my husband's
wives and children from him and me, then will
the light and happiness be gone from this house
and from my life entire, for they are near to me
as my own"
	I was for a time a boarder in this family, and
I wish I could have taken you with me there in-
to that home and shown you the system that
ruled there; you would have learned that the
idea that you and many others have imbibed
that a glimpse merely into the heart of a polyg-
amous household would sicken you of wishing
to become further initiated into its practices, is
simply a very erroneous idea. At six o'clock I
wind my way to the kitchen, where I find one
of the wives who, with the assistance of the eld-
est daughter, is preparing the breakfast for
the twenty-two members- including hired men
and boarders. Another wife is arousing the mi-
nor members of the family and washing and
dressing and making neat those of her children
who are not large enough to attend to this duty
themselves. "Her children," you say. Yes,
they are all hers this morning. I can see no dif-
ference in the care that each receives from her
hands. Beds are being aired and made, rooms
swept and dusted, by another. All this work
is completed by 7:30, when the bell sounds,
which brings every member of this family into
the dining room-the best room in the house-
for prayers and breakfast. The father leads in
prayer, a soul-inspiring petition to God for His
protection and peace to be with his family. I
wish I could repeat it all to you here. As soon
as breakfast is over the busy girls carry out the
dishes, and they are soon washed and the kitch-
en put in order under the direction of the house-
keeper. The milk is carried to the cellar and
the butter looked after by another  of busy
hands, and at ten o'clock, which is their usual
hour for rest and reading, we find the work of
these families has been done and no one has
been obliged to work herself weary, and each
one  ready to take up her paper, book or pen as
she sees fit, for an hour's diversion.
	Now, I've given you no fancy picture, it is one
of real life in Utah, and from it you can see that
polygamy is a benefit to the poor, temporally.
	And now can you wonder, as you say you have
done, that the women of Utah cling so tena-
cously to this principle of their faith, when they
could so easily rid themselves of its sighs and
burdens?
	Realizing, as they do, its beneficial influence
upon their families, and the strong ties by which
it unites the members of a household, it is not
to be wondered at that they show themselves as
ready to step forward and, if it is necessary, give
up liberty, or even life, in defense of it, as the
men are. To deprive them of the free exercise
of the principles of their faith, including that of 
polygamy, is to deprive them of that which
makes life bright and enjoyable, and they know
it; hence they meet with a determined resist-
ance every attempt of malicious, designing men
to snatch from them these blessings, and there-
by overthrow their happiness. They realize
hat to abolish they system of plural marriage is
to tear down and throw away the shield that the
Almighty has prepared for the protection of
their race from the awful evils that exist in the
nations, and must still exist through a coming
age, unless the women of the nations are made
to see the awful brink of destruction they are
standing upon the verge of.
	Testimonies of numbers of the women of Utah
of their belief and experience in the polygamy have
been published in the EXPONENT, several num-
bers of which you have received and probably, 
read. I feel that it is not necessary to add more
as my letter is laready lengthy.
	Hoping that you may receive what I have
written in the spirit is intended and with un-
biased judgement,
	I am, as ever, your cousin,
							Mc.


