LA FEMME DE LAFAYETTE.

	The ancient French city of Puy has recent-
ly celebrated the inauguration of the statue of
General Lafayette. The orators who assisted in
the commemoration of this illustrious patriot
have not been able to give, in the history of
the General, but a part worthy of him, or
worthy of her, the noble consort and cheerful
participator of his diversified fortunes and
chequered career; and this for a two-fold rea-
son.
	Public speakers in celebrations of this kind
have not the time, neither again the question-
able taste to enter into the intimate relations
of the life of the heroes they eulogize; above
all when their public life offers a sufficient
subject as vast as it is’intricate; and then Mme.
de Lafayette was also as modest as she was
active in her devotedness; her virtue was too
sincere to admit the love of commendation; she
realized that she had but done her duty, even
when she pressed its accomplishment to the
acme of heroism. At all events, she believed
herself sufficiently recompensed by the love of
an adored husband—love of which he gave
such an eloquent proof in wishing to carry in-
to the tomb, placed upon his heart, as a title to
a re-union in the other life, the medallion con-
taining the portrait of her who had been an
admirable wife and an exemplary mother.
	This trait, so touching and but little known,
sufficed to attest in what estimation the Gen-
eral held this wife, the tender love of which
inspired so many manly resolutions. It has
conceived the thought to M. de Lescure of
making a research of the fact which entitled
Mme, de Lafayette to the admiration and un-
fading remembrance of her husband, and to
sketch thus as a margin to the history of La-
fayette, like a bas-relief at the foot of a statue
—the history and the image of the accom-
plished and discreet wife who honored his fire-
side and who was his consolation by the fidel-
ety of an heroic love through all the vicissi-
tudes of glory and the intermittances of popu-
larity.
	Mme. De Lafayette was a Noailles, one of
the five danghters of the third Due d’Ayen.
Le 4 Thermidor an II (22 June, 1694) in one
“single batch” she lost, by the merciless
guillotine, her mother, the Duchesse d’Ayen,
her grandmother, the Marechale De Noailles
and the Vicomtesse De Noailles, her eldest
sister, married to one of her cousins. The old
Marechale was eighty-six years of age,and had
fallen into a state of entire imbecility. Her
daughter and granddaughters were obliged to
sustain her under the arms to enable her to
mount the scaffold, for she scarcely walked any;
she sang and laughed, imd jocosely inquired if
they were not conducting her a la promenade.
The terror caused this poor old head to totter.
	Adrienne De Noailles was married to the
Marquis De Lafayette on the 11th of April,
1774. She was twelve and a half, he being 
seventeen. These mariages between juveniles
were frequent among the French nobility, but
following the sayings of the times, "on ne met-
tait pas toujours les epoux ensemble." A speci-
fied time was appointed when the marriage
should receive a legitimate consummation. Na-
turally this little married couple sought to, and
finally succeeded in rejoining each other. One
day the young husband penetrated to the apart-
ment of his petite wife and turned the key.
The principle relatives were angry and scolded,


but laughing in their sleeves muttered: "Look
at the little dog!" The city and the court
amused themselves with it, and the gazettes
contained the adventure. This was very
piquant. In our days they would have made
of it one of the operettas.
	Mme De Lafayette made her first communion
after having been married six years, and the
same year became a mother.
	But behold, at the end of three years of
married life, the young husband decamped one
fine night. He excused himself by des lettres
eloguentes directed to his wife, and also direct-
ed to the Duchesse d'Ayen, his mother-in-law. 
He had believed it to be his duty to depart fur-
tively, because they would have restrained him
if he had made known his design. This was not
for a little voyage, and he states plainly that he
intends crossing the ocean. He speeds, he flies
to America. He wishes to put his virgin sword
to the service of the insurgents against Eng-
land, and contribute himself, a gentleman by
birth, to found a first republic. His wife in 1777
voluntarily pardoned his escapade. This gen-
erous zeal for liberty beyond the sea took the
color of heroism and romance, which raised the
admiration of the young courtiers even in the
immediate surroundings of the king. It was
only the old Noblesse which shook their heads
--this was not bad going to give liberty to
America. But, see there! If the people de-
manded it as well in France!
	But the wife of the young hero could not be
unforgiving; indeed, to the contrary, had she
not loved him more for this noble weariness of
inoccupation, for this manly ambition for an
occasion to distinguish himself, for this grave
design so courageously disguised, for this secret
so well concealed, for this audacious departure,
for this modest bravery and ardent desire to
win those pure laurels, not of the couqueror,
but those of the liberator, the chaplet of which
he wished his wife to participate in the crown-
ing honors with himself, and engarland as
trophies the cradle of his children. And thus,
really, he was of the same opinion as Mme. De
Lafayette. The return of the liberator tri-
umphed over all pretentions; when he was seen,
when he was heard, he was not only pardoned,
but admired, adored. All Paris had for him
the same eyes as his wife. As a consecration,
as a living testimony of the great happiness of
the first return, that of Feb., 1779, scarcely re-
vealing the dawning of this glory, which had
not blazed forth until in 1782 with victory and
peace. Mme De Lafayette gave birth, on the
24th of Dec., 1779, to the son expected, the son
desired, the inheritor of the name George
Washington De Lafayette. And it is to
Washington that the mother confided her son
when the reign of terror had driven her hus-
band from France, when her mother, her sister
and her grandmother were sentenced to pay
with their life the crime of their birth, and
when she, under a decree of arrest, had been
conducted to Paris, where the revolutionary
tribune attended her.
    At the end of May, 1794 the citoyenne La-
fayette was transferred to Paris, committed to
the Petite Force, then to the Luxembourg Le
9 Thermidor. She was not discharged. She
did not gain her liberty until the 23rd of Jan.,
1795, when she obtained a passport for America,
but embarked at Dunkirk for destination to
Hamburg. In September she arrived at vienna
with her two daughters.
	Now comes the most interesting portion of
the life of this faithful spouse. By the media-
tion of the Prince De Rosemborg, Grand
Chamberlain, Mme De Lafayette obtained an
audience with the Emperor, unknown to his
ministers. After a detention of sixteen months
she had come simply and naturally to solicit
the favor of sharing the captivity of her hus-
band, who had been languishing in duress
these three years. This favor was accorded to 
her.
    Mme De Lafayette and her daughters par-
took during two long years, the captivity of
the General. The fair prisoners were treated
with a consideration which was free from rigor.
For consoling herself in the evening--while
the eldest daughter served as secretary to her
father, or as a substitute for workers outside,
threw down the pen for the scissors and the
needle, and cut out and put together the shoes
for the family--Mme De Lafayette wrote slow-
ly the life of her mother, with a tooth-pick
dipped in a little dissolved India ink, upon
the margin of the engravings of a volume of
Buffon.
	The liberation of Lafayette and his compan-
ions was due to one of the clauses of the treaty
of Campo-Formio. The portals of the citadel
d'Olmutz were thrown open for the French
prisoners the 19th of September, 1797, after
five years and one month of involuntary cap-
tivity for Lafayette and his companion prison-
ers, and twenty-three months of voluntary
captivity for his wife and daughters; but they
did not re-enter France until after the 18th
Brumaire.
	Mme De Lafayette died December 24th,
1807 of the malady, the germ of which she
contracted in the prison d'Olmutz.
	Translated from a French Journal by George
Hamlin.


