GENERAL MEETING R. S. & Y. L.
	The ladies' regular semi-monthly meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Nov. 15th, at two p.m., Coun. B. W.
Smith, presiding. After singing and prayer by
Coun. E. Howard and singing again, m nutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also
minutes of Y. L. of the 17th, 20th and 4th
Wards, and P. A. of the 14th and 21st Wards,
Coun. Smith said she wished the sisters to oc-
cupy the time in bearing their testimon es.
	Sisters E.S. Taylor was the first to speak of
the goodness of God and exhort the other sis-
ters to testify.
	Sisters Bird, Hicks, Kelly, Whitpin, Ander-
son, Hadden, Watmough, Smith, Hazen, Dyer,
M. E. Kimball, Dobson, Ann Richards and others
each bore a faithful testimony.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball occupied a few moments,
said she felt like listening more than speaking,
said she thought it a good thing to refrain from
speaking evil of any one,even those we consider
our enemies; it is better to be kind and polite to
all; we want to elevate and prepare ourselves for
a higher position; alluded to the many good
qualities of the late Sister Smoot.
	Coun. E. Howard said there had been much
good instruction given, and after some other re-
marks said we want to be just and peacable no
matter what comes; never wound another's
feelings.
	Coun. Smith made a few closing remarks and
the meeting adjourned for two weeks,with sing-
ing and benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
	Regular meeting held Nov. 29th, at 2. p.m.,
President M. I. Home presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
then singing, and minutes of previous meeting
were read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L. of
the 20th and 14th Wards, and P. A. of the 20th
and 21st Wards.
	Prest. Horne requested the secretaries in fu-
ture to take the front seats, and expressed the
pleasure she felt in meeting with the sisters
again,she had been prevented of late by sick-
ness in the family.
	Coun. Sarah Kimball spoke to the secretaries
for a few minutes in a very pleasing manner.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, in her most happy
manner, addressed the sisters; her remarks were
mostly upon the work in the Temple, the hea-
venly influence felt by all who officiated there,
and the great necessity of purity of character
to be prepared to act for the dead.
	Coun. P. Woodruff spoke of the necessity of
performing every duty and seeking the guidance
of the Holy Spirit to help us, and then our ene-
mies could not have power to harm us; but if we
are negligent in performing our duties and lose
the Spirit of God, we will find ourselves in a
very poor position.
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke encouragingly to the
secretaries, giving them good advice. Coun.
Howard regretted there were not more of the
young ladies attended the meetings and would
like to see enough of them come to sing for
the meetings.
	Prest. Horne made some very pertinent re-
marks upon the liability of all to make mistakes
and need correction; said she wished more to see
her own errors then those or others; warned the
sisters to beware of evil influences and not to
be deceived through being over zealous, but to
seek to have the Spirit of God at all times. Ad-
vised the young ladies to keep good company
and study good behavior at all times and in all
places.
	Sister Mary Freeze thought the young ladies
needed the spirit of discernment to enable them
to judge who were good and to shun those who
were evil.
	Prest. Horne gave notice that the conference
would be held on the 26th and 27th of December,
and the meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing. Benediction by Coun. Zina D. H.
Young.


