PARTED FRIEND, MARIA J. BOOTH.

The pale moon shines out from the western sky,
	The east is rosy with the coming dawn;
To woo sweet sleep no longer will I try,
	That soothing messenger has long since gone
And left me busy with the scenes of yore,
	Whose vivid memories throng my wakeful brain,
Where long I've sought amid its scanty lore
	Bright gems of thought in vain.

Sad tidings reach us in our far-off home,
	That swell the fountain of our hearts with grief,
With sympathy could consolation come,
	Our sorrowing friends would find a sure relief.
One more dear friend is numbered with the dead;
	Her husband absent at this trying hour,
His lonely threshold he will ere long tread--
	O God, support him by Thy power.

With him we know the parting pain yet lingers
	Of little more than three short years ago.
When ghastly death, with cruel, icy fingers,
	Laid one dear member of his household low;
And now again we read in mournful measures,
	Death claims another one so pure and fair,
Which leaves his tender household treasures
	Without a mother's loving care.

When on my home returning trip last May
	I spent a week with this dear friend of mine;
I knew her husband had been called away
	Upon God's errand to a distant clime.
With patient zeal I saw her once more drain
	That mingled cup of earthly bliss and woe,
For woman’s' supremest joy and pain
	Still hand in hand must go.

When in the mother's arms we laid her little son,
	With loving pride a welcome sweet she sailed,
Like some brave warrior o'er a battle won,
	Well paid for all, in this her precious child,
By which a golden link is added to the chain
	Of endless lives in fairer worlds than this,
O’er whom her husband and herself my reign
	Through coming ages of eternal bliss.

As o’er her snowy couch I bent with loving care
	To brush the lustrous waves of ruddy gold
That crowned her queenly head with beauty rare
	In nature's grand and perfect mould,
I little dreamed that it would be the last
	Sweet taste of fellowhip on earth that we
Would e'er enjoy until we both should pass
	The shining portals of Eternity.

The last sweet message from her hand received,
	A note of sadness breathed from ev'ry key;
Her loving heart, like many others, grieved
	O'er dreadful news from far-off Tennessee.
Fresh in my memory are the plaintive words she spoke
	The dream that he, her loved one, had returned;
That when her mind from restless slumber woke,
	Peculiar feelings in her bosom burned.

'Tis true events of coming time do often cast
	Their fitful shadows o'er our pathway here,
Misunderstood until fulfilled at last;
	We then look back and read their meaning clear;
And ere the missive was complete, she said,
	"The mourning bells ring out a requiem drear,
Ma Smoot's pure spirit from this earth has fled
	To realms of glory in a higher sphere."

And now, sweet friend, a brief farewell to thee;
	May we alike prove true to every trust,
And when our spirits like thine own are free,
	This frail mortality has sought its kindred dust,
Oh, may we meet the loved ones gone before
	In robes of pure celestial glory dressed,
Sweet anthems sing on that elysian shore
	Where weary souls find rest.
					MARY A. FARNSWORTH.
Moan Coppy, Arizona, Nove. 15th, 1884.


