HOME AFFAIRS.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms on Friday, December
26th, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p m. Ver-
bal reports from each branch will be expected,
and it is hoped there will be a good attendance.
The Primary Associations will hold their Con-


ference Saturday, 27th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and the Y. L. M. I. A. on the same day, com-
mencing at 2 p. m.
	The Presidents message has been delivered
and Utah has not been forgotten. He seems to
have accepted the advice of the Utah Commis-
sion, and would be glad to give Congress abso-
lute political control of the Territory. The fol-
lowing is an extract from the message:
THE UTAH QUESTION.
	The report of the Utah Commission will be
read with interest. It discloses the results of
recent legislation looking to the presentation and
punishment of polygamy in that Territory. I
still believe that if that abominab'e practice can
be suppressed by law, It can only be by the
most radical legislation consistent with the re-
straints of the Constitution. I again recom-
mend, therefore, that Congress assume absolute
political control of the Territory of Utah and
provide for the appointment of a commission
with such governmental power as in it's judg-
ment may justly and wisely be put into their
hands.
	On Thursday, November 20th, a little party
of ladies met by invitation at the residence of
her daughter and son in-law, Brother and Sister
Henry C. James, to celebrate the anniversary
of the birthday of Sister M. Isabella Horne, one
of the representative women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. The afternoon was spent in
interesting conversation, and many fervent con-
gratulations were offered to the honored lady
that she had lived so long and still retained
health and vigor, and that she had reared such a
numerous and noble family in the Church of
Jesua Christ of Latter-day Saints. The birth-
day passed off very pleasantly.
	At about six o’clock the ladies, with Brother
Horne, he being the only gentleman at the table,
sat down to a sumptuous repast, and all enjoyed
it, for there was “the feast of reason and the
flow of soul” as well as many good things pre-
pared by the lady’s charming daughters, who
are all excellent housewives.
	We missed, on that occasion, our dear Sisters
Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H. Young,
who were both absent on duty, and we realized
how much more complete the party would have
been if these two sisters had been present.
Long life to SisterHorne, and may she have
many more happy returns of the day, with her
companion by her side, and in the full enjoy-
ment of all the faculties with which God has so
abundantly endowed her.
	At a special meeting of the Board of Directors
of the Deseret Hospital Association, held on
Friday, Nov. 21st at 11 o’clock a.m., in the Hos-
pital building, Dr. W. F. Anderson was appoint-
ed to the position of medical Superintendent
and unanimously elected to that position in the
institution, it having been understood before-
hand, that the matter had been laid before him
and that he was willing to accept the position.
	A vote of thanks was also tendered to Dr.
Joseph S. Richards, for the valuable services he
had rendered the hospital while attending regu-
larly as visiting physician during the past few
months, and the wish was expressed by all
present that he should continue to visit when-
ever he had the time or inclination to do so, as it
is the desire of those connected with this home
for the afflicted, to secure for it the aid and in-
fluence of the best physicians in Utah, that it
may develop, in the near future, into an institu-
tion of which the people will be justly proud.
			H. B. Clawson, President,
			E. B. Wells,Secretary.


