EDITORIAL NOTES.

	On Saturday, Nov. 8, we had the pleasure of
attending the annual meeting of the Primary
Association of the Eleventh Ward of this city, 
Mrs. Louie B. Felt presiding; singing, "In the 
Chambers of the Mountains;" prayer by the Miss
Minnie Coult, one of the little girls; singing,
"Gather up the Sunbeams." Minutes of last
annual meeting read and approved. Exercises
then commenced: Essay on "Obedience," by


Miss Sarah —; recitation, Miss Jane
Coult; Duet, "Only an Armor-bearer,” Misses
Lizzie and Etta Parsons; Recitation by Climise
Lawson; Song by Master John Donelson; Reci-
tation, Counselor Nettie Leaker, a child’s piece;
Address, Master George Coulam; Song by Miss
Polly Newson; Historical address by Miss Min-
nie Coult; Duet. “Whippoorwill,” by Misses
Laura Denney and Louie Felt (two very little
girls). Bible questions were answered by the
children in chorus.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters E. C
Clawson, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor, E. B.
Wells, H.T. King, M. A. Freeze and Bishop
McRae. Benediction by one of the members.
The meeting was an excellent one in every
respect, there being about one hundred and fifty
children present. Refreshments were served
ofter the close of the meeting.

	On Tuesday, Nov. 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. Howard and E. C. Clawson went to Sandy
to meet with the Relief Society and reorganize
the Primary. Two meetings were held, one
with the Relief Society and the other with the
children. Sister Clawson organized the Prim- 
ary with the following officers: Sister Hannah
Shaw, President; Jane Clark and Maggie Hew- 
lett, Counselors; Elizabeth Shaw, Secretary;
Ruth Lewis, Assistant Secretary; and Mary
Jano Lewis, Treasurer.

	While Sister. E. R. S. Smith was making a
tour through some of the settlements of Weber
Stake she visited Eden by special request, and
organized while there a Y. L. M. I. A. with Mar-
tha A. Ferron, President; Mary Jane Fuller
and Rosetta Larsen, Counselors; Elizabeth J.
Eggleston, Secretary; and Lucy L. Ferron,
Assistant Secretary; and Mary L. Eggleston,
Treasurer. 38 members were admitted.

	Thursday, Nov. 13th, Sister B. W. Smith
went to South Cottonwood and met with the
Primary at 11 a.m. Had a pretty good time,
and though there was no particular programme 
had a number of songs and recitations; alto-
gether they acquitted themselves very credit- 
ably. A number of the sisters spoke to them
and gave good counsel. Bro. Jones and another
brother spoke also. Sister Smith did her best
to encourage them; all felt that they had had
a good time and appeared satisfied with their
meeting.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society met.
Had a pretty good attendance. Sister Eliza
and others were expected, but could not come.
They had a very satisfactory report of the so-
ciety, had few sick and no poor to speak of.
They have a splendid hall of their own and are
furnishing it nicely. Sister B.W. Smith,
Prest. J. Y. Cahoon, Sisters Jones, Rawlins,
Pixton and two brethren addressed the meet-
ing. Expressed themselves as feeling well in
the Latter-day work.
	Sister Smith enjoyed the visit very much and
returned home tired, but happy, hoping she
had done some little good to her sisters and
the children.

	It is now very generally admitted that
Cleveland has a plurality of votes, and in all
probability his claims are established so far as
his party are able to ensure them to him. It
has been a closer contest though than either
party seemed to anticipate. What will trans-
pire between now and the 4th of March, 1885,
it is impossible to tell. One thing we know,
and that is, that there is a spirit of partyism
gaining ground in the United States that is
accompanied with such dire hatred and desire
for revenge as is not healthy to any nation or
people, and it has reached so great a height that
it seems likely to culminate in the same form 
in this broad Republic as in an absolute
monarchy, of which Pope wrote: “Uneasy
lies the head that wears a crown."


