A TRIBUTE.
	On Saturday, Nov. 22nd, at about eleven
o’clock, Elder Horace K. Whitney passed quiet-
ly and peacefully to his final rest. He was the


eldest son of the late Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and was born in Kirt-
land, Ohio, July 25th, 1823.
	Horses, as he was familiarly called by his re-
latives and friends, was one of those men who
never seemed to grow old, and indeed, until his
recent illness, which terminated fatally, he
looked the picture of health, and more fresh in
his complexion and buoyant in spirits than
many young men. He was a man of fine social
qualities, and was greatly beloved as well as ad-
mired by his friends, for his many superior ac-
complishments,as well as his genial, and amiable
disposition. He was strictly moral, honest and
upright, and possessed those scholarly attain-
ments that always elevate the man who uses
them judiciously.
	The writer knew him first in 1841, and from
that time until his death. He was what might
consistently be termed a brilliant conversational-
ist, when he was associated with those with
whom he felt at ease, but shrank from public
notice or criticism with a degree of sensitive-
ness which rendered him incapable of taking
the place and position his talents and ability
would have entitled him to fill with honor and
dignity.
	Horace K. and his younger brother Orson K.,
who died July 31st ult. were both pioneers.
Horace was at that time twenty-four years old,
Orson only seventeen. In early life these two
brothers were the most devoted friends and
both of them young men who gave great prom-
ise of success and usefulness in life.
	Horace Whitney was one of those men who
accepted practically the principle of celestial
marriage, and honored it in his daily life, and
his example in this particular is worthy of imi-
tation; he proved his sincerity in this sacred
order of marriage by his works, and he was de-
votedly loved by his family, and will be sincere-
ly mourned; yet the Gospel teaches us to restrain
our grief for those who have died in the faith of
the Gospel as he has done.	E.	B.	W.


