SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1884.


[Column 1]
	EMILY FAITHFUL’S BOOK.
	“And that mine adversary had written a
book,” exclaimed Job in his affliction, but we
have no reason to apply this to ourselves in the
present day, for it sesms to be a very common
occurrence for the enemies of truth to write a
book. Each author seems to think that some-
thing will be done by Congress if they set forth
in forcible language and thrilling incident “the
horrors of Mormonism.”
	When it was understood here that Miss
Faithful would write a book, it was thought
by many who had mether and heard her speak,
and by those who were somewhat acquainted
with her work in the cause of reform, that she
would at least deal honestly and fairly with
Utah.  She came here and accepted the courie 
sles and attentions of the “Mormon” people; she
gave her “lecture on Modern Shams” in the Salt
Lake Theatre to an almost entire "Mormon” au-
dience.  She strongly denounced the hypocri-
sies, extravagances, subterfuges and frauds prac-
ticed in the great world,—therefore, how could
one suppose she would pander to the present
vitiated taste of modern society for sensational
matter, or join in the hue and cry against those
of whom sha knew so little, before she had thor-
oughly investigated the subject.
	Miss Faithful was here a few days, she was
suffering from asthma, so that she was unable
to see much that would have been interesting
to a casual traveler; yet she writes of Salt Lake
City and the citizens as though she had been a
dweller in their midst, and knew whereof she
wrote.
	Miss Faithful’s book is entitled “Three Visits
To America,” and contains four hundred pages
of reading matter, and judging of her by her
literary ability and prestige one would not ex-
pect she could so far forget her womanly honor,
as to publish falsehoods; and knowing that the
two chapters she has devoted to Utah contain
so much that is untrue,how can one who knows,
that, accept other matter as positive in facts
and descriptions.
	 The XI and XII chapters of the book are devo-
ted to “Mormon”themes; opening with Brigham
Young’s entrance to the valley, and Miss F.
writes: “No wonder that the keen eye of the
'Prophet’ at once discerned his opportunities and
that he resolved to build up his Zion in this fer-
tile spot.” If Miss Faithful had traveled across
the barren plains with tired and worn-out ox-
teams and arrived here weary and foot-sore only
to find a desert of sage brush and alkali—with
no one to greet her save the half-naked savages,
and the howling of ravenous wolves, she would
be able to make a more truthfal statement.  We
speak from knowledge and we know whereof wa
assert; desolate and uninteresting were these
now delightful vales at the advent of the Saints.
But let that misrepresentation pass, it scarce de-

[Column 2]
serves mention, it has been so oft repeated by
the villifiers of that inspired man, Brigham
Young.
	Miss Faithful speaks of having been invited
to the party given in honor of the anniversary
of Sister Eliza Snow’s eightieth birthday, and
goes on to relate what transpired there as though
she had really been present.  The fact is she
was not even invited at all, the invitations be-
ing strictly confined to Latter-day Saints.  She
knows what the local papers published concern-
ing the happy event, and no more. However,
she was, as she says, invited to a luncheon party
at the Gardo House, the residence of President
John Taylor, but the conversation she relates as
having taken place there, has been conjured up
by her own vivid imagination.  Sister Eliza,
she says, made an effort for her conversion
which is utterly erroneous; but that is a mere
trifle and not worthy a moment’s consideration,
but she goes on to say, “Opposite me sat
Joseph F. Smith, nephew of the “Mormon”
founder, and next to him a lady from Stockport
sealed to President Taylor for the life that now
is and that which is to come.  Both of them al-
luded openly to their relationship, and regretted
I did not see the value of forming associations
which would last throughout eternity.”
	To those who know President Taylor this is
the veriest nonsense, and would require no con-
tradiction.  But in defense of truth and to show
how utterly false her statements are, we em-
phatically declare the whole thing a myth con-
ceived in her own brain, for what effect or pur-
pose is best known to herself, no such conversa-
tion was heard by any one.  There were several
gentlemen and ladies present, who were aston-
ished and amazed when they saw her book’ that
she could make so unfounded an assertion and
publish it as truth, aud while openly depre-
cating shams and frauds of all kinds, should her-
self be guilty of palming off upon a sensational
public such a consummate sham and maliciuos
falsehood. What she expects by wilfully tra-
ducing and falsifying those who never did her
any harm, but sought to show her kindnes and
courtesy, is difficult to imagine, and when one
considers the pretended claims she makes to a
reformer and an agitator of the rights of all man-
kind, and recalls the statements made in her 
lecture, one is sorely puzzled to understand her
motives, for she says at the close of her book:
“She that lifts up the manhood of the poor,
She of the open heart and opon door,
With room about her knees for all mankind.”
What construction can one put upon Miss Faith-
ful’s statements except that she has joined
hands with the civilizers and regenerators of
Utah, those who denounce virtue in Mormons
and applaud vice in those who seek its over-
throw?
	Miss Faithful speaks of the petition signed by
nearly 500 women and sent to Congress—which
denounced Brigham Young in what she terms,
“these remarkable words:”
	“Never in this world will the history of these
dark deeds be written, for the victim and wit-
ness of many a tragedy are hidden together in
the grave”—and again she says—“The history
of his reign—for it is nothing else—is written in
characters of blood.” She has also stated that
numbers of those who signed the document had
a “personal and bitter experience of the practical
workings of polygamy.” These apostate ladies
know this thing to be utterly false and infa-
mously cruel, thus to desecrate the memory of
the dead, when they put their names to that pe-
tition, if they were aware of its contents, and it
is to their condemnation and they must answer
the consequences hereafter.  Women who were
intimately acquainted with Brigham Young (so
we have been informed) signed that petition,

[Column 3]
and they knew it to be untrue in their hearts
they had been partakers of his liberality, had
been numbered among his friends, had mingled
in his society at the very time when they de-
clare his hands imbued with blood.  How dare
they allow their lips to utter or sanction these
vile and infamous stories?  Are there not thou-
sands to testify against them?  Their treachery
and cruelty is equal to that of traitors, lost to all
sense of honor.  
	Alas, should they provoke the bloody conflict
they seem anxious to bring about, and bring
down the indignation of the Congress they so I
imploringly besech, would they be guiltless of
innocent blood?  Are they not satisfied when
they see innocent men and womancast into pris- 
on for the practice of the religion which they so
devoutly believe?  It seems incredible that wom-
an possossed of the motherly instinct inherent
in her mother nature, could ba incited to take
part in such a diabolical scheme.  That Miss
Faithful, whose name has been heralded the
world over as a reformer, should take up the
cudgel against an inoffensive, industrious, hard-
working but persecqted people, after a few days'
visit, and join hands with those who are
combined to destroy the peace, happiness and
prosperity of Utah and her people, is indeed
strange, the political clique, the self-styled liber-
al party, and that she,an Englishwoman, should
appeal to the Congress of the United States.
	To refer to all the malignant falsehoods about 
“Mormons” this book coutains would take too
much space, but as we were requested by the
publishers in' New York to criticize and send
marked copy of the paper, we have touched up-
on a few of the misrepresentations in the two
chapters named, and believing there are honest
people who may read the book and be deceived
by it, it becomes an imperative duty, in the in-
terest of truth and justice, to contradict some
of the false, wicked and slanderous assertions 
made therein.


