GENERAL MEETING Y. L. & P.A.

	Nov. 1st the semi-monthly meeting convened
in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher. Singing
again. Minutes of previous meeting read and
approved, and minutes of Y. L. were read from
the 10th, 20th, 3rd, 8th, 19th and 7th Wards;
also P. A. minutes from the 20th, 2nd, 19th,
17th, 21st and 15th Wards.
	Prest. Horne then spoke for some time; re-
ferred to the excellent minutes that had been
read and the good instruction they contained.
Thoug humility was one of the virtues we
should cultivate, and improve our abilities and
opportunities, never neglecting any duty how-
ever small, and live near to the Lord that we
may always have His Spirit. Spoke very ably
upon the election, and urged the sisters to go
to the polls, those who were entitled to the
privilege, and also to attend the political rati-
fication meeting in the theatre on Monday
evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke upon the political
position of Utah to-day, and urged the sisters
to remember Bro. Rudger Cawson in their
prayers and exercise faith that he might be set
at liberty.
	Mrs. E. B. Fletcher poke of her anxiety for
the yoath of Zion, her interest in the Primary
and Y. L. Mrs. Phebe Woodruff spoke in regard
to veting—that it was as much a duty as to
pray. Exhorted the sisters to be humble and
prap for those in authority for they are ex-
posed to great danger.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze said, it appeared that our
enemies were trying to crush us, but if all were
of her opinion it would be necessary to build
more prisons if they intend to send men and
women there for the practice of celestial mar-
riage. Spoke of having attended the Clawson
trial, and how her blood boiled with indigna-
tion, but she knew they would have to reap
what they had sewn.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball said she felt like the
last speaker, that our enemies wished to crush
us; but they had undertaken more than they
had imagined, for while we are willing to obey
the commandments of God and live up to
every principle He has revealed, we will find
Him our friend.
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and the
meeting was adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. E. S.
Taylor.


