	BY HANNAH T. KING.

 Again we are approaching one of those re-
volving periods in the: Book of Time in which
the thinking mind takes a long breathing
space, and thought runs back through the
scenes passed in the three hundred and sixty-
five days comprising the past year. We are
brought to a pose, the heart and brain natu-
rally run back and gaze once again upon the
joys and sorrows—sickness and bereavements,
experience during the past year; and we can
not fail to recall the blessings also that have
attended us through all; so palpable have been
these that the hand of the Lord was revealed
through all; how He had sustained and com-
forted us in all our trials and afflictions; how
He had opened the hearts of friends to be es-
pecially kind to us, and to tender to us the help
or comfort that we stood in need of; how He
had made us especially to realize His words,
penned by one of His most inspired Prophets:
"Fear not, I am with thee, thou art mine!"
And under the inspiration of these words, the
sun of our system burst forth, shedding light
and warmth upon us, and we rose up and went
on our way rejoicing—we cast our eyes over
the beautiful world He had made for the resi-
dence of His creatures, human and animal, yet
even they have been studied that their tastes,
and appetites might be fully gratified. The
tiniest insect has not been forgotten or over-
looked by any means; if we take, the micro-
scope we can behold how busy the MAKER
hath been in fashioning its tiny organization, in
beautifying its minute body with royal colors,
the purple and the gold, in not leaving out any
attribute that would add pleasure to its ephe-
meral existence—all has been. freely lavished
on them and they are as independent in their
sphere as the potentate of humanity.
	Every one ought to possess a microscope,
that they might enter into a new world of
beauty and of wonder that would then be pre-
sented to their view. The means of human
knowledge is immense in this enlightened age,
but it mournfully tells us how ignorant we
are—yet ’tis true that we are wiser than we
know, there is a fund of intelligence hidden in
the human strata that requires a proper time
and a master hand to bring it forth. Who
would think for a moment that fire is contained
in the cold, opaque flint; had it not been dem-
onstrated? This is an appropriate simile to
thousands of beautiful hidden flowers. The
human intelligence has been developed marvel-
ously within the present century, and it gives
us an assurance that in the next we shall see
greater things than these, sending the present
discoveries into comparative insignificance; the
power of steam has been applied and brought
to its present perfection within the past fifty
years; electricity also being its necessary con-
comitant, with its startling effects; the electric
telegraph, the telephone, with their thrilling
developments, giving us the power to speak
with friends and loved ones a hundred miles
off, and they can hear our identical voice; and
then the sub-marine telegraph, that astound-
ing grasp of scientific ability; also the railroad
under the bed of the Thames, and the under-
ground railroad beneath the Metropolis of
England; the electric light—I might go on to
enumerate the saving of human labor by ma-
chinery of every sort, and then the half is not
told. Surely the mind must be obtuse indeed
that does not see the hand of the Great Arch-
itect of the Universe working with His agent
—man; realizing “there is a spirit in him,
but God giveth it inspiration.” Yet it is His
revelation that is flooding the human mind.
These are only the beginning of wonders, the
spirit of revelation broods over this mundane
sphere in this 19th century, bringing out the
latent powers of the human mind the God in
embryo hid up in that complex machine, the
human body, propelled by the “divinity that
stirs within it ” Religion and science are twin-
sisters, and will yet be so acknowledged.
Pass on, old year, we hail with joy the advent
of the new.


