	THEATRE.

	A vast assembly filled the Salt Lake Theatre
Monday evening, Nov. 3rd, at the grand mass
meeting of the People's Party held in the inter-
est of the election. At the opening hour the as-
sembly was called to order by Hon. Angus M.
Cannon, who nominated Mayor James Sharp as
chairman. Mr. Sharp was unanimously elected.
Hon. A. M. Cannon was chosen vice-chairman
and H. M. Wells secretary. The chairman in-
troduced the first speaker of the evening,
	HON JOHN T. CAINE,
"Utah's present delegate, to Congress, and the
People's nominee for re-election to that office.

[Column 2]
He came forward amid applause, and proceeded
to deliver an elaborate, exhaustive and eloquent
address, setting forth the views and principles of
the People's Party, as opposed to those of the so-,
called “Liberal” organization.
	“Local self-government was the main pillar of
the platform upon which he,as the People's can-
didate, stood, and a Legislative Commission with
the utter abolishment of that sacred right, was
the only plank in the “Liberal” platform. He
proposed to analyze this infamous proposition,
and expose its unconstitutionality, its utter
foreignessto American institutions and the spir-
it of Anglo Saxon ideas. He traced the record
of American history in vain for a precedent to
justify the abolition of local self-government, a
right guaranteed by the Constitution and the
genius of our institutions, and after referring to
events in English history, without finding,how-
ever a parallel of the kind, turned to the dark
ages of tryanny and despotism in search of it;
ages of crime, ignorance and oppression, of
which civilization to-day was everywhere
ashamed. He asked, If Utah could be thus
stricken down, what safety would there be for
other Territories? The Edmunds law was re-
ferred to and its fallure attributed to its proper
source, viz: the unconstitutionality of the mea-
sure itself and its partial administration,whereby
12,000 polygamists had been disfranchised at a
blow, while sexual sinners outside the Mormon
community were left untouched. Now, more
oppressive legislation was called for, which
showed that polygamy was not the real object of
assaults of the Liberals and their sympathizers
but the punishment of the Mormons for a mere
belief.”
	He closed amid loud applause, by which also
the delivery of his speech was attended at fre-
quent intervals.
	Speeches were afterwards made by Hon. S. R.
Thurman and Hon. W. N. Dusenberry of
Provo, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Hon. F. S. Richards,
M. Isabella Horne and Prest. Geo. Q. Cannon.
The speeches were all good and to the point,and
we are very sorry we cannot publish them in
full. Sister Horne brought down the house
when shs said “how would the judges and law-
yers who are so eager to question the sisters like
it if their wives and daughters were brought in-
to court to testify against them, though she be-
lieved they could tell plenty if they would.”
Prest. Cannon, among many other good things,
said, “Before Constitutions were written there
were laws and principles written on the hearts
of human beings. Magna Charts and the Con-
stitution of the United States are only the ex-
pression of principles as old as eternity. We
know what the principle of liberty are, we
know when we are oppressed, if we had never
heard of the Magna Charta or the American
Constitution.” Bro. Cannon's speech was full of
grand and lofty sentiments, one to arouse the
spirit of patriotism in the hearts of all who love
liberty and hate oppression.
	At the close of the meeting the following res-
olution was adopted
	Resolved, That the representatives of the
People’s Party in mass meeting assembled re-af-
firm the principles of the People's platform
adopted two years ago,and ratify the nomination
of Hon. John T. Caine for delegate from this
Territory to the Forty-ninth Congress of the
United States.


[Column 1]
