TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
(Continued.)
	On the 3rd the committee sent to confer with
the above named tribes brought in their report
of the same. “They had seen the chiefs of
the Omahas, Big Elk and Standing Elk,
his son, who signed the article which they had
drawn up requesting their consent to remain
one or two or more years.  Both tribes are very
anxious to have all the improvements we shall
leave behind.  The Otoes were anxious that we
should not close with the offer of the Omahas
and go up the river, because there they would
have no clue to the improvements we shall
make, whereas if we stay where we are they
consider themselves entitled to every thing we
shall leave behind.  A committee was appoint-
ed by the council to look out a good place for
cattle and to see about the removal of the fer-
ry up the river near here.”
	On the 5th my father,accompanied by Bros.
O. Pratt, W. Woodruff, J. M. Grant, Horace
Eldredge and several others, set out in pursuit
of a new ferrying place.  A committee met
them from the other side of the river by agree
ment. “They took a leather boat,” says Hor-
ace, “belonging to Brother Horace Eldredge,
which they had brought with them, and two of
them, Bros. Kimball and O. Pratt, went over
to see the committee.  On getting over they
found five of the brethren, Isaac Morley,
George W. Harris, Phinehas Richards, Wm.
Snow and Bro. Miller, waiting for them—they
all got into the boat with them and went back,
making seven in all, there being a heavy wind
up stream; the waves were very high, they were
in momentary danger of upsetting, as Brother
Kimball said who steered the boat, but they
landed safely without any accident at the place
from whence they started.”
	Here, at the mouth of the creek, they built
a brush bridge—two of them, Brother Kimball
and Wm. Snow, rode up the river about two
miles to see if they could find any better place
for the ferry than here—they returned, not
having found any, consequently it was agreed
to establish it here.  One or two of the breth-
ren then took the others back over the river in
the leather boat, and they then returned.  He
says, “The brethren up to this date have cut
from 1500 to 2000 tons of hay, the most of
which is already stacked.” He also mentions
the arrival of Uncle Joseph Young and family
that evening.  There were then rising of 800
wagons in the three camps, which were situated
in the form of a triangle.
	On the morning of the 8th Bishop Whitney
and Bros. Woolley and Van Cott started for St.
Louis to purchase goods, also Wm. Kimball,
Colonel Kane,Darnel Davis and Orson K.Whit-
ney started for Nauvoo.
	On the 11th Wm. returned with O. P. Rock-
well, the latter having started for Mt. Pisgah.
“They came to bring back some bed clothes,
etc., belonging to Bro. Jedediah M. Grant, that
were taken away by Col. Kane.  They had
gone about fifteen miles on their route from
the village when he (the Colonel) told them he
did not feel able to go through by land, conse-
quently they came back and put him on board
the steamer “General Brooks,” letting Wm.
take his horse, and agreed to meet him at Nau-
voo, in which if he failed he was to keep the
horse.”
	Saturday, 12th, a council was held, at which
the following resolutions were made:
	1st—That all dogs should be tied up at sun-
set and not released till the next morning at
sunrise.
	2nd—That no firing of guns should be per-
mitted within hearing of the camp either by
night or day,and that such things should cease
wholly at sunset.
	3rd—That no timber should be cut down for
fuel which would answer the purpose for build-
ing, and that when anyone wanted wood they
were to apply to Stephen Winchester and
Father Eldredge, who would instruct them
when and where to fell trees.  It was particu-
larly enjoined on the brethren to spare the
walnut trees, which had been already cut
down in great numbers to procure walnuts.


UTAH:
PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE.
	A hasty announcement drew a small audi-
ence together at the theatre on Monday night
when Robert W. Sloan gave his lecture on
Utah, Past, Present and Future.  On the
platform were seated Prest. W. Woodruff and
Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Charles W.
Penrose. President Cannon introduced the
speaker with a few appropriate remarks, and
the young man plunged into his subject with
earnestness and enthusiasm.
	The subject is one, notwithstanding the as-
sertion of the author to the contrary, of
profound interest, to the young people, especial-


ly, of our Territory, and ever must be.  The
lecture begins with a brief, yet fairly compre-
hensive review of the physical appearance of
our Territory, showing its variety of climate,
water sources and other matters of interest as-
sociated with the geography of Utah.  This
done, a review of the Utah past is begun, par-
ticular stress being laid upon the cricket war,
grasshopper devastations, the result of the ap-
proach of Johnston's army, and the difficulties
encountered in battling Indians.
    The present of Utah deals with her agricul-
tural capacity, the varied character and abun-
dance of her mineral resources, her manufac-
tures, and her credit as an outgrowth of the
conditions peculiar to her people--conditions 
likely to win for the Territory permanent pros-
perity and future greatness.
    The lecture concludes with a view of the
future that awaits the Territory if her young
people only take advantage of the rare oppor-
tunities that await them in a land so richly
blessed as this, if they will only prove worthy
the blessings left them by the pioneers, and
which God has placed within their reach. It
is an exhortation to the young to prove them-
selves worthy their grand parentage and make
the country they inhabit great as they become
great themselves.
    The lecture was loudly and feelingly ap-
plauded whenever any touching or emotional
sentiment was portrayed in words.  He seemed
to feel all and more than he said, and his man-
ner indicated his intense interest in the theme
he had so graphically worked up, and upon
which he had bestowed much precious time and
thought. We regret that the lecture could
not be produced in the different wards of the
city, for it is one calculated to inspire an am-
bition in the youth of Zion to press on to nobler
aims and higher resolves, and to attain to that
excellence which is the result of purity of life
and nobility of purpose.


