VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.
	Sunday morning, Nov. 2nd, Mrs. M. I
Horne, H.M. Whitney, M. A. Freeze and E.
R. Shipp, M. D., took train for Sandy, where
they were met by carriages, which conveyed
them to South Jordan Ward, being most hos-
pitably greeted and entertained by the good
sisters. At 1:30 p.m. they met with the Relief
Society; the hall was well filled by both breth-
ren and sisters. After the usual preliminaries
remarks were made by each of the above
named sisters, also by the Bishop of the Ward
and Sister Holt of this organization. At the
close of this meeting Sister Horne returned
home, it being necessary on account of sick-
ness.
 In the evening Mrs. M. A. Freeze and E. R.
Shipp attended a meeting of the young people,
and after listening to a most excellent pro-
gramme by the young gentlemen, each ad-
dressed the meeting for a short time, when
young Bro. Gardner gave a most interesting
account of his mission to the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	On Monday, the 3rd., the ladies from Salt
Lake, together with a number from South Jor-
dan Ward, were conveyed to Fort Herriman,
a distance of eight miles, over rather a barren
region of country, though the ride was far from
uninteresting.
	On our arrival we found the Bishop await-
ing us at the meeting house door, and in the
space of a very few minutes the house was well
filled; the occasion being the organization of
the children, a large number being pressnt,
who were very conspicuous for their good order
throughout the entire proceedings. Sister Tem-
pest was chosen as President, with other offi-
cers well qualified to fill, their different posi-
tions.
	The meeting was addressed by Sister H. M.
Whitney, who spoke eloquently and at some
length on the doctrine of plural marriage.
Sister M. A. Freeze, who gave good instruction
to the children, and also to parents; Dr. E. R. 
Shipp also made some remarks, followed by
the Bishop and some of the local sisters.
	After dinner at the Bishop’s we were kindly
accompanied by Sisters Holt and BeckStead to
Sandy Station, where we took the train for
home, again, feeling that we had made the ac-
quaintance of some of God’s best people and
that we were blessed in our endeavors to bless
others.					E.R. SHIPP


