TO THE CHILDREN OF TEMPE.

I was asked by your president something to add
To your entertainment, to make your hearts glad,
To instruct, edify, please and amuse,
So I called for the aid of my pen and my muse.

But just what to talk of is hard to decide,
The world is so broad, so deep and so wide.
With so many subjects for thought and for speech,
And all so infinitely out of my reach;

For we don’t comprehend the smallest thing,
The tiniest shrub, the bird on the wing.
So beyond the wisdom of you or I—
Wo see them live, and we see them die!

But we cannot call from the earth’s dark breast
The lovely flowers our earth has blest,
Nor give to the birds the breath and song
That cheers our hearts the whole day long.

We walk abroad, In the sun’s bright ray.
That cheers and brightens our earthly way,
And we see it silently sink from sight.
Leaving a glow of golden light.

And then we watch for the twinkling star.
And the moon peeping up o’er the hills afar;
We gaze, and admire, and love them all,
But the mantle of mystery still will fall.

O’er our dim mortal eyes, that we may not know
Just how God governs His works below;
But we know ’tis with wisdom and mighty skill,
That His hand guides all to His own great will.

All move in harmony grand and true—
Just study the page nature holds to view;
There is no jarring or discord there,
Only man has marred the picture fair.

It is sad to think how he turned away
From God, and truth, and the light of day,
To wander in darkness, and sin, and strife,
Away, far away, from the paths of life.

But children dear, there is joy for you,
If you will be noble, good and true.
For a messenger came from the throne above,
Bringing glad tidings of mercy and love.

He brought the gospel and left the key
That opens the way for you and me;
Even the way that our Savior trod,
Holding fast to the iron rod,

That will lead you safe by the mansion high,
Whoso inmates scoff as you pass them by;
That will keep you still, though the wild seas roar,
And wreck and ruin lie on the shore.

That will whisper peace to the troubled soul, 
And guide life’s bark o’er every shoal,
Till it teach the haven of peace and rest
In the golden city, redeemed and blest.	S. E. R.
	October 30, 1884.


