PATTY SESSIONS. 
[Continued.]
 On the 1st day of August Sister Sessions at-
tended the funeral of Bishop Knight. On the
4th went to the Relief Society where they had
a very good meeting, and afterwards attended
a prayer meeting. On the 6th she went with
Sister Chase to the Prophet Joseph’s and had
a good visit; the same day the Free Masons
went over the river. The Sunday following
Lyman Wight preached, and called for a con-
tribution to help Bro. George Miller to go to
the pine country. 8th, Bro, Joseph and Porter
Rockwell were made prisoners by the Missou-
rians on suspicion; they leave them in the hands
of the city marshall and have gone back to
Quincy. The next day she feels very much
cast down, not knowing what the result of the
arrest will be, but she sees the Prophet Joseph
and he appear cheerful. At night a guard
was sent, and she speaks of her son Peregrine
being one. 10th, “Bro. Joseph and Porter
missing; the sheriffs return.” 12th, “Sheriffs
here yet.” Then she writes she was making
shirts for Bro. Joseph. 13th, she receives a
letter from her husband, dated July 12th, from
the State of Maine. 16th, the sheriffs have
gone home.
On the 17th she speaks of attending a sis-
ter with a still-born child, and says it was the
first case of the kind she had ever had in more
than thirty years practice. Day after day
Sister Sessions, according to her diary, goes
out among the sick, and helps to lay out the
dead as well as officiating in her calling as a 
midwife.
On the 29th she rode out with her son David
to see the pottery and steam mill; says, too,
that she saw the Prophet ride by, going to at-
tend a special conference; this was the first
time she had seen him since he was missing, 
and her heart rejoiced to see him. 31st, she
speaks of a visit from Sisters Hyde and John-
son. Sept. 1st she speaks of going to Mr.
Marks’ and finding Martha and her babe both
very sick. On the 4th she speaks of attending
meeting, and a letter was read from Bro.
Joseph, who had gone away again because the
sheriffs were after him. Again and again she
she speaks of Mother Smith visiting her and
often stopping over night. On the 8th she
went to the funeral of a child, where Sidney
Rigdon preached. On the 11th went to meet-
ing, heard two letters, read from Bro. Joseph
Smith. On the 14th she attended the Relief
Society and afterwards went to a meeting at
Sister Leonards’; Sister Dooty and other sis-
ters were there, and they had a blessed time.
The 24th she speaks of as training day, and 
says Sister Buel was at her house. On Sunday,
Oct. 3rd, went to meeting and Sidney Rigdon
preached. She often speaks of her visits to
the sick, and of taking them something to
nourish them. On the 5th she went to see


Sister Emma Smith and found her very sick.
On the 6th she mentions,Sister Mileken and
Perry had been visiting her; the same day she
received a letter from her husband, which gave
her great joy. On the 9th she writes, Windsor
Lyon, her daughter’s husband, went to St.
Louis to purchase goods. On the 23rd Sister
Sessions went to see a sick woman, Dr. Brisle
was there, and she writes, “In my opinion he
officiated contrary to nature, or right, or rea-
son.” 31st she speaks of going to the Temple
to meeting. Speaks of going to Bro. Miliken’s
and finding Lucy, his wife; very sick. On the
6th of November Bro. Sessions returned
from his mission, and she rejoiced that all their
lives had been spared to meet again. On the
27th Sister Sessions having been called to at-
tend a sick woman, went through the severe
cold and froze her hands and toes. On the 7th
of December Bro. Orson Hyde, who had been
away, came home. On the 13th she was very
sick, the Prophet came and laid hands on her
and she was healed. From that time she
speaks of Joseph having visited-at her house
almost daily. On the 24th she says Sister Syl-
via Lyons had a little son born, but it only
lived twelve hours. "January 15th,” she says,
“Brother Joseph preached in his own house.
On the 17th it was fast day, and appointed to
give thanks for Joseph’s being set at liberty.
Bro. Orson Hyde preached,and she says it was
a day long to be remembered.
	On the 20th the says Orson Pratt and his
wife were re-baptized, and on the 22nd, Sab-
bath day, Bro. Joseph preached in the Temple
about baptism for the remission of sins. On
the 28th she speaks of Bro. Sessions being ill,
and Bro Joseph Smith and Orson Hyde came
and laid hands upon him. 29th, she says she
went to meeting; Bro. Joseph preached in the
Temple a sermon upon the Prodigal Son. On
the 12th of February she says Bro. Joseph was
at her house, and Mr. Lyons, Sylvia’s husband,
lent him five hundred dollars. She went to
Bro. William Hyde’s—his wife had a daughter.
On the 25th she says she visited, with Sisters
Hyde, Nobles, and Miss Louisa Beamen,at her
daughter’s, Sylvia Lyons. On the 6th of
April she attended the General Conference,
which lasted three days. On the 10th she
writes again that Sisters Hyde, Price, Browett
and herself, visit at her daughter Sylvia’s. “On
the 12th,” she says, "the first steamboat came
up the river" (for the season she means, I pre-
sume). On the 13th she says Parley P Pratt’s
family arrived, and her son Peregrine started
again for the State of Maine. June 25th she
went to meeting and Lyman Wight preached,
and she heard that Bro. Joseph was taken
prisoner again.
	The day following she called on Mother
Smith, and at that time paid to Prest. Joseph
Smith’s clerk, Bro. William Clayton , $10.25
towards the Temple. This was a very small
sum compared to the amount Sister Sessions
has since given toward Temple building, for it
has been her  happy lot to give a very great
deal to the different Temples that have been
built.
	On the 30th she says Bro. Joseph is at home
again; she went to see him, and then heard
him address the people from the stand after-
wards; it was a time of great joy and rejoicing.
"July 1st, Joseph had his trial to-day. July
4th, Bro. Joseph is free again, and many peo-
ple have come from afar to -day. Three steam-
boats landed. 29, Sister P. P. Pratt and Olive
Frost were here. August 11th, Judge Adams
died at 10 o’clock in the evening. On the 
13th she says she went to hear Bro. Joseph
preach Bro. Higbee’s funeral sermon. There
were some complaints against individuals, and
the Church withdrew fellowship from
Sidney Rigdon. This was a very im-
portant event in the Church, although,
probably, very little was thought about


it at the time. 17th, Brothers P. P.
Pratt and Orson Hyde started east. 18th
went to the Relief Society. Sister Sessions
adds here, "Almost every day I have been to
visit the sick for a very long time.” Sept. 1st
she went to the trial of Bro. Adams. On the
2nd she says she went to the Relief Society and
gave $6.75 to the poor. Ten weeks before she
gave 50.cts.
	Thus we see how Sister Sessions bestowed of
her means. Oct. 3rd she took dinner at the
Prophet Joseph’s, and on the 6th Semi-Annual
Conference convened and she attended; it lasted
three days. On the 9th of November she
says Sidney Rigdon preached. Judging from
this he must have been re-instated again by
that time. On the 21st she speaks of Joseph
preaching again—she speaks of many people
whose names we are very familiar with. On
the 8th of February her daughter, Sylvia
Lyons, was confined with a daughter. On the
8th she says she sent money to St. Louis to
buy a stove, which was quite an event in those
says, for the people had a hard struggle in
Nauvoo, partly on account of sickness"and
other circumstances, which kept them from be-
coming as prosperous as their thrift and energy
would otherwise have rendered them.


