WILL THE PURITAN RACE PERISH?

	Some writer has said, "The Puritan race is
dying of pride."  The writer, within a year,
heard a noted speaker exclaim before a large
concourse of people, "The Puritan race is
doomed."  The same gloomy sentiment may
get utterance in various directions.
	I do not suppose that the idea of discrimina-
tion between Puritan and Pilgrim is often
thought of, but that the reference is in general
to those who came over in the Mayflower, to
those of like type arriving later, or landing
elsewhere, to that people and their descendents
whom we commonly recognize as the New
England race.  Should a long line of ancestry
reach back to Holland, France, Germany, or 
Russia, it would matter not, the New England
traits existing, then the individuals are freely
included in our serious inquiry.
	Here are people, not as graceful as the an-
cient Persians and Greeks, not as ponderous


as the old Romans, not as versatile as the
French, not as profound as the Germans, not
as fascinating as the Italians or Spaniards, but
in their sum total, as valuable, as much to be
respected as any that existed. Their preserva-
tion is to be coveted, their continuance be-
comes a matter of national concern, and even
of world-wide consideration.
	Here is a blood largely of English and
Scotch origin, receiving a peculiar, a New
England, a new world tinge. A specimen of
this stock is observing and analytical to the
keenest shrewdness; self-denying, loyal to
principle, inclined to order and worship; lov-
ing regulated liberty, a natural leader and em-
ployer of his fellows. There is many a happy
village, largely Irish, with two or three Yan-
kees at the head of its business. These lead-
ing men appreciate the services, the wit, the
religious and other rights of all the men in
their employ, it may be, to a most admirable
extent. In multitudes of cases the employees
would not like to be in any body else's service.
Often these men run factory, shop, or store at
a loss, for the time being at least, rather than
distress the help by shutting down the gates.
The man may be a farmer undertaking large
improvements which will not pay, as his wife
well knows; but he, in his heart, loves to im-
prove, to renovate, to direct, and above all, to
pay out money, honestly earned, where the re-
cipient will be grateful, or will be helped to
live and support those dependent upon the earn-
ings of his naked hands.
	Some may have an antipathy against this
species of men, exult in the least prospect of
their extinction; yet I freely inquire, how can
we spare them socially? What community
was better to live in than a typical New Eng-
land neighborhood? Answer, ye who have
had a wide experience, who were brought up
in such society, and have since been tossed here
and there upon the billows of a wandering life.
All that Henry Ward Beecher has asserted, or
his sister Stowe has illustrated, and so many,
many others have delineated in praise of the
kind of folks to which the Beechers, Edwardses
Dickensons, Winslows, Robinsons, Larneds,
Bates, Lincolns, Quincys, Adamses, Garfields,
and an innumberable host of others belong, has
had its foundation in everlasting verity.
	Well, is there danger that this kind of peo-
ple, this class of families, may disappear? Yes,
and the danger is personal, fundamental.
Their influence may be getting muffled, may
be waning; still there is much more than that
to fear. In some instances the old sharpness
is blunted, the quiet confidence is passing into
uneasiness, the perseverance becoming less
marked, the church tendency lessening along
with the partial loss of simplicity, and some
parting, alas! with purity. Nor is so much all.
There are fearful clouds rising upon different
parts of the horizon and upon one, large and
dark, we seem to read in raised black letters
the terrible word, Extinction.
	The time has come to sound an alarm, to run
with the truthful message, to put away every
embarrassment and "cry aloud." Just where
the writer happens now to be, in a country
town, in Worcester Co., Mass., there is much
to startle one. In Worcester itself, "the heart
of the commonwealth,' in all the New England
cities, in sections of the Middle States, and in
the far West, there are primary circumstances
which startle all who are very thoughtful. We
find families where children might have had a
heaven to grow up in, childless! Like house-
holds with only one or two children. These
may not be rugged. In not unfrequent in-
stances, where there have been many children,
all have gone to early graves! Districts that
used to embrace fifty or sixty pupils now as-
semble eight or ten. If a district now keeps
up to its older number of pupils it is because
foreign families have settled in the neighbor-
hood. Consolidation of districts is going on for
lack of children.
	There are changes which indeed are not im-
provements. The strain on life grows severe,
the fashion stylish, the habits expensive, the
struggle to keep up or surpass intense, piti-
less.
	Woman, as we see her by the eye of history
stepping upon the rock of Plymouth, woman
as represented by our grandmothers, woman as
a helpmeet, woman ever the central figure in
social life, the marked, the Puritan woman is
failing the Puritan man. Who then will help
him?
	I know of fathers who almost shudder at the
mention of their daughters' names. They
know, as no other man can, the riches of good-
ness, the sparkle of love and  genius in the
bosom of these girls; but how shall the father
be able to dress, school, and rear them as other
folks do, and they retain their health, freshness,
animation, and innocency? If he would limit
them to his income, instruct them in hygiene,
render them philosophical generally, who will
aid him? How many will thwart him and
render those dear daughters discontented,
treacherous to his wishes and wisdom. His
own friends may plot against him. Fortunate
is he if he have a son who is patient, who hon-
ors his father, who eschews popular vices and
all vice, who respects the family name, who
reveres the whole vast circuit of God's laws,
who stands like a mountain of firmness by
what is prudent and solid, by eternal common
sense and undying righteousness. There are
Puritans that have such sons. Is the number
comparatively large? Is the percentage on the
increase?
	Go, go in disguise, if you please, into the by-
ways of cities, the country stores, the post-
offices; note what you see and hear. Confine
yourself now to the land of the Pilgrims.
You cannot forget that these young men are
soon to stand in the place of the older, and
that the mortality, too, of elder and prominent
men at present is very great. Repair to the
church on Sunday, after all the swearing,
boasting, mocking, tobacco-mulching, and so
on, you have been obliged to witness the week
before, and find many of these fellows there, if
you can. Say over to yourself, "Puritan,"
"New England." Repeat the names of the
New England States; think of what were their
characteristics. Let their history, their lead,
their eminence pass before you. Interrogate
your very soul; question the lessons and warn-
ings of the world's history; inquire relentlessly,
whether without reformation the youth of
these States are going to bear up and lift still
higher, as they ought, the prestige of these
States.
	The writer is not trying to make out a case.
He is not saying or intimating that there is no
good to be seen. He does not aver that there
is no flickering hope in his sobered heart, that
there will be repentance and rescue; that a
remnant, at the worst, will be saved. Yet he
is thoughtful, awakened, whispering to himself,
"We must be resigned if this choice blood be-
comes weakened, corrupted, and is even final-
ly lost out of all human sight in the great,
surging, endless river of events."
	I have in my list of acquaintance a few
young men in whom I delight. Some of them
are married. Half of these I deeply pity.
They have very fashionable or invalid wives.
They may be both. A fashionable invalid
woman of the northeastern States is the most
expensive creature, if we except Barnum's
white elephant, "under the whole heaven."
The number of maladies, the number of reme-
dies, the mysterious ailments, the retinue of
doctors, the multiplied quotations from them,
the noted resorts to be visited, the tremulous
conditions to be observed, the breathless exi-
gencies extant and forecast, excite, confuse,
and alarm me. My friend may have a gener-
ous income. Really I see he nceds it all. In
my simplicity or stupidity I may recommend
to a husband or wife, or to a brother or sister
of the same, some practical health publication
or clear-headed hygienic physician, or a home-
like institution, where good treatment and
counsel may be obtained, but I have rarely
found welcome for my advice. When out of
my own rather slender purse I have ordered
some vital literature sent to their address, it
has, perhaps, been accepted as a faint or dis-
tant curiosity, or a kind of flat proof that some-
body has a funny hobby.
	We may well glory in our common schools.
That is a Puritan glory. But I do not see why
school committees, including physicians, should
be so confident the curriculum is perfect, and
that no young person is ever injured by study
or confinement. The savants declare that even
the normal schools are never too severe for the
physical integrity of girls. The evils alleged
all proceed from "late dancing and late sup-
pers." These are guilty things indeed. But
is it customary for schools, in a motherly way,
to spare at all the young ladies suffering from
these dissipations? Do they spare them for
anything? Do they not make telling, ceaseless,
ingenious appeals to the large cautiousness and
approbativeness of the girl pupils? Which is
usually uppermost, the welfare of human be-
ings or the feats of disciplinarians, the pride
of the school board, and the astonishing feats of
professed educators?
	Ride through the country towns of New
England, and on roads away from depots and
factories, you will find deserted houses, old
cellars, dying orchards, and the like, showing
that the rural population is declining. Many
a field once cultivated, is now growing to wood.
Many a freehold has passed from a Yankee to
an Irish name. Many, of Puritan descent,
have rented their farms and moved into some
fashionable centre. Poor health, on both sides
of the house, is the common reason given. It
may sometimes be added, my son does not like
farming, or, my daughter works in the shop,
and if we moved she could board at home. It
would not be usually expected that the daughter
would like housework, even at home.
	Now, our fathers sometimes plowed and har-
rowed rocky hills, which, now we know of so
much better land, should always be left simply
to growth of wood. It still remains that there
is much land in the northeastern States, poor-
ly tilled; or not tilled at all, that could be
worked with profit. There are multitudes of
farms that could be bought for two thousand
dollars--what the buildings cost, say--which
would nicely support an average family of fru-
gal habits. In some sections a little more than
half that sum would buy a farm, on which one
could easily keep a horse, ten head of cattle,
and so on. With good markets near by, and
postal arrangements whereby a daily paper
could be read on the day it was published, why
are not these homesteads rapidly taken up?
Because there is so little science and so much
extravagance. Because of restlessness and
vanity. Because of a later-born, hot, unrea-
soning tendency to rush to over-crowded cities
and other crowded centres. Because of a lack
of the love of Nature. Because of a fatal
disregard of the best sources of health, and an
undervaluing of every sort of purity and
natural excellency.
	"Greece was never more adorned with arts,
fuller of schools, more resonant of music, rich-
er in genius, more showy in religious sacrifices,
than when she was struck with hopeless death!
It was the decay of virtue, the triumph of
selfish over public tastes, the absence of self-
denying men, the enervation of luxury, the
pride of vain philosophy, the hypocrisy of re-
ligion that killed her!"--Phrenological Jour-
nal.


