MISS FAITHFUL AGAIN.

    Again we take up the pen to pick up a thread
or two omitted in the former notice of Miss
Faithfull's Chapters on Utah. It would be very
wrong not to contradict the statement made
concerning Sister Eliza Snow, whose life and
labors among this people have ever been so
faithfully and efficiently performed. Sister
Eliza is above slander. It cannot touch her in
her magnanimity of character, but for the sake
of the principle involved, and one which the
Latter-day Saints hold sacred and divine we
feel called upon to reply to the infamous asser-
tion which Miss F. has quoted in her book. She
states that she was told of this matter and then
comments. It does seem as though a woman of
Miss Faithfull's age and experience, after hav-
ing seen Sister Eliza Snow herself, and having
some conversation with her upon that very
principle, would have had better judgment than
to repeat such a wicked story without having
further authority than "I was told." We will
give her own version as she has published it.
"I was told of a wife who had sought Eliza
Snow's counsel in the supreme hour of her an-
guish--when her dearly loved husband was
about to take unto himself a second wife, a
prettier and more attractive girl than herself.
    " 'I cannot live,' she cried in despair, 'and see
her with him.'
    " 'Pray for resignation,' said the poetess.
    " 'I do, but I shall die if he brings her home!'
was still the despairing response.
    "The woman must indeed have been lost in
the priestess before Eliza Snow's lips could have
framed the cruel answer, 'Die, then! There are
hundreds of women up in that burying ground
who have gone there because they could not be
resigned to the will and order of God.' "
    This is the statement, and the only authority
she gives for it. Now, we know Eliza Snow;
have known her for forty years; a great part of
that time most intimately, in her works and
labors; have traveled with her through the dif-
ferent stakes of Zion; have seen her in all the
various circumstances and situations incident to
such journeyings, when we meet the people in
their homes and by the fireside, as well as in
public gatherings, and never have we heard
from her lips anything like unkindness to those
who came for sympathy or counsel, but on the
contrary when sisters, passing through any se-
vere trial or affliction, have sought her, she has
poured out sympathy and consolation in such a
spirit of humility and love that it has imparted 
comfort and blessing, especially as she is a
woman gifted with power in that direction, and
has a great influence over those with whom she
mingles. It would not be possible for Eliza
Snow, we speak advisedly, to make such a re-
mark; not only is it contrary to her own woman-
ly nature and character, but it is contrary to the
principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
she holds to be higher than anything else. There
is no place nor people who have a greater regard
for each other's individual feelings than in Utah
and among the "Mormons."
    Sister Eliza Snow has ever shown a kindly
feeling for the "stranger in our midst," and she
devotes a large portion of her very valuable
time to talk to and enlighten those seeking for
information upon the subject of the Latter-day
Saints. Often she has been kindly spoken of
afterwards by the press and so on, and others
have misrepresented her as in the case of Miss
Faithful, but never have we seen a more cruel
and unjust falsehood published about a woman
who devotes her life to doing good to others, than
the one we have alluded to here; however it is
the fate of all those who follow in the footsteps
of our Savior, to be evil spoken of by the world.
As for Sister Eliza Snow herself she lives so far
above any slander or misrepresentation that it
cannot reach her at all, and she can afford it,
but those who circulate such evil reports can
very ill afford it. They will have it to meet in
the great hereafter, when all must give an ac-
count of the deeds done in the body.
    It may perhaps be thought we are taking up
too much space in contradicting Miss F's asser-
tions, but there is one other point which is real-
ly an important one, and that is, her seeking to
enlist Queen Victoria and the English Govern-
ment in some way to hinder emigration from
that country. She says: "A very large propor-
tion of the victims," wrote the Chicago Inter
Ocean, "are importations from Great Britain.
Missionaries, supplied with ample letters of cred-
it, act as panders for polygamy in large towns
and hamlets, inducing poor people to accept
family tickets to Utah, generally with-holding
from them the knowledge of what awaits the
girls of the household. Mr. Evarts, when Sec-
retary of State, tried to check this evil through
consuls, but he could accomplish nothing.
Queen Victoria should protect her subjects from
such an imposition. Our government would
gladly co-operate in any feasible plan having
that object in view." After quoting this pas-
sage from the Inter Ocean, she adds, "How far
Her Majesty can protect her subjects in this di-
rection I cannot undertake to say; believing that
some service can be done by presenting to the
public true pictures of Mormon life, I have en-
deavored in these pages to give my readers the
benefit of all the information I obtained while
residing among this "peculiar people," which I
consider has an important bearing on the extra-
ordinary phase presented to the world by the so-
cial life and practices of the Latter-day Saints."
She then elaborates the matter more fully and
says that several letters addressed to her are
lying by her side, and quotes upon the subject
the following from one:
    "Agents of Mormonism are still inducing
numbers of our young people, in the east of
London, to go out of our country; they are de-
luded by the missionary's perversion of the
Scriptures, to suit his own inclinations, and al-
lured with the belief that in Salt Lake City
they will find Zion or Paradise at once."
    Then she tells a dreadful tale of misery and
horror to substantiate what she has said, and
adds, "It is one of the many sad histories I know
to be true." She does not tell us how she knows
so much, and speaks of her residence here as if
she had remained in Utah some considerable
time, whereas, the truth is, she was only here a
very few days.
    Now, we know how utterly false all her state-
ments are; we know well that our Elders go to
preach the Gospel, to carry the glad tidings of
salvation, such as the Latter-day Saints en-
joy, to those who sit in darkness; go without
purse or scrip, trusting in God to provide their
daily food; they have no letters of credit, nor
even money in their purse, except, sometimes,
sufficient to take them to their place of destina-
tion, and they carry no flattering tidings to in-
duce any to emigrate, but preach the word of
God, which, when received by the honest heart,
awakens in the recipient of the Holy Spirit, a
desire to gather to Zion, a desire which often
becomes so great that it is hard for those who
preside over the branches of the Church abroad to
induce converts to remain until it is wisdom for
them to come. Those who have been upon these
missions know that this is true; we have often
heard the Elders allude to these things. There
may occassionally be an instance where people
are dissatisfied after they come to Utah, but
such instances are the exception and not the
rule; they prosper here, and their circumstances
are usually much more independent than they
were in the old country. As for young women,
they have their own agency to do just as they
wish about marriage; as a general thing they de-
sire to be united to a good man, a man of honor,
a Latter-day Saint, and why should they not?
And as for the women helping to support the
family, it is our candid opinion there is less of it
done in Utah than in other places. Women
everywhere among the working classes expect
to do something to help with the living if there
is a large family, and if the histories of women's 
lives are ta be taken to prove the condition of
women in Great Britain, we have heard from
the lips of English women themselves, tales
more heart-rending and sickening, more horri-
fying and revolting than those Miss Faithfull
and other similar writers against Mormonism
can tell of the "horrors of polygamy." Besides,
why not take the testimony of women living in
that order, instead of those who are so anxious
to crush out the life saving and vital principle?
Have not the Latter-day Saints a right to work
as well as other laboring people, and is not all
honest work honorable, whether done by men
or women? And when women are happy can
they not do more work, and do it better, than
those who restless and dissatisfied with life, and
forever trying to make others as wretched as they
are themselves.
    If Miss Faithfull and a few others who have
come here to find out the mysteries of plural
marriage and publish it to the world would take
a little more time to investigate the horrors of
their own cities and towns, they would find
polygamy sink into insignificance when com-
pared with the terrible crimes that are becoming
prevalent in their own localities. We judge by
the statistics published and "he who runs may
read.' Mormon women who remain faithful
and true to the covenants they have made in
holy places, have nothing to fear either from
judges, juries, or publishers, for they know for
themselves and not for another, that God is with
this people, and though men revile, and slander,
and persecute, and say all manner of evil, and
women, too, yet they have an assurance that is
eternal, that reaches beyond the grave, and no
man or woman can take away the peace and
consolation this gives to the Latter-day Saint.
We bear no ill-will or malice to Miss Faithfull,
but what she has written will stand as a wit-
ness against her.


