[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | January | Issue: 6 | Title: ROMANIA B. PENROSE. | Author: him we are also told, that “He will]

			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
	During the long cycles of time, that are
buried in the past, this question has been
asked, by those, who as the prophet Malachi
states it, “Seek the Lord.”
	By him we are also told, that “He will
send his messenger before his face, even the
messenger of the covenant.” Also “that he
will suddenly come to his temple.” Then
the question is asked “But who shall abide
the day of his coming.”
	That this could not have referred to his
first coming is clear; for then he did not ap-
pear suddenly, but as all other infants, he
lay on his mother’s bosom, encircled by her
loving arms, while the wise men worshipped
him, bestowing precious gifts upon him.
	He grew to boyhood and manhood as
other children do. This prophecy therefore,
did not refer, to Christ’s coming in the me-
ridian of time.

[Column 2]
	In Matt. XXIV we read that the minds of
the Apostles were troubled about the future,
and when he sat upon the Mount of Olives,
they came to him privately, asking him to
explain the things he had been teaching
them, saying “Tell us when shall these
things be? What shall be the sign of thy
coming, and the end of the world?”
	4) And Jesus answered and said unto
them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
	5) For many shall come in my name,
saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many.
	6) And ye shall hear of wars and rumors
of wars; see that ye be not troubled, for all
these things must come to pass, but the end
is not yet.
	7) For nation shall rise against nation,
and kingdom against kingdom, and there
shall be famines and pestilence; earthquakes
in divers places.
	13) But he that shall endure unto the
end, the same shall be saved.
	14) And this gospel of the kingdom, shall
be preached in all the world as a witness
unto all nations, then shall the end come.
	That the world would not be looking for
his coming, he plainly foreshadows, in the
parable of the Ten Virgins, with which he
illustrates his previous teachings. He ever
tried to familiarize their minds with the
fact that he should go away, but that he
would come again.
	His ignominious death follows. Suspended
between heaven and earth, on the dreadful
cross, he cries “It is finished,” or his mortal
career ended, and gave up the ghost.
	This is followed, by the unmistakable
signs, of the anger of an offended God, that
his Only Begotten Son, had been cruelly put
to death. His anguish is shown by earth-
quakes and darkness.
	The veil of the Temple is rent in twain,
bearing record, that with all its glories, it is
rejected as the house of God; that from
henceforth he no longer will visit them in
the holy of holies, nor heed their petitions.
Of what avail their boast of being the chil-
dren of Abraham, or possessing the Book of
the Mosaic Law.”
	An overwhelming fear falls on all those,
who took part in the tragic scene, blanching
their faces and chilling their hearts.
	Behold! Death is victor, the grave hath
won; the powers of hell hath triumphed.
		Watchman, what of the night?
	Darkness on the earth, darkness on her
children. Comes there no light?
	Lo! the risen Lord, appears unto the af-
frighted Mary, who becomes the first am-
bassador, of the Resurrection.
	From the door of the sepulchre, angels
have rolled the stone away, and the Prince
of Life, again stands upon the earth.
	The clouds of inky darkness flee, before
the illuminating rays, of a resurrection
morn. The graves of the righteous are un-
sealed, and walking into the Holy City, they
are seen of many. The risen Lord and his
Saints are ransomed from the power of
death.
	Watchman, what of the night? Seeest
thou aught? A glorious ascension! In the
sight of his chosen Apostles, the Mediator
between God and man, is taken up to
heaven. Missionary blessings and instruc-
tions he has left with them, with strict in-
junction, that they shall tarry in Jerusalem,
until the Holy Ghost shall be come upon
them, and they shall be endued with power
from on high; then he becomes invisible to
their sight.
	Still looking steadfastly unto heaven, they
see two men standing clothed in white ap-


[Column 1]
parel, who said “Why stand ye gazing up
into heaven, this same Jesus, which is taken
up from you, into heaven, shall come in
like maimer, as ye have seen him go into
heaven.”
		Watchman, what of the night?
	The Lord of life ascended; the promised
Holy Ghost not come. Now shall the dis-
ciples of the Bridegroom fast and pray, for
he has departed from them, and the cold
dark clouds of absence, fall over them.
Now shall the Bride mourn, watching and
praying for the lost one’s return.
	But over the city of David, dawns fair, a
Pentecostal Day. The believers gather with
one accord in one place. When, lo! a sound
from heaven, as of rushing wind, fills the
house.
	And there sat on each one of them, as it
were, cloven tongues of fire, and they were
filled with the Holy Ghost.
	The Comforter is come! The Witness of
the Father and the Son, to be companion of
those, who are loved of the Lord, until,
clothed in the majesty of heaven, he shall
come to earth again.
	The work rolls on apace. The Apostles
teach and exhort. Traveling far and near,
they call upon all men to repent, ever de-
claring that Jesus is the Christ.
	They make a history of Christ’s earthly
mission, leaving the record to be a guide to
the footsteps of men, unto the latest genera-
tion.
	One by one, they seal their testimony
with their blood. Other faithful disciples
follow them to the death, rather than yield
up the testimony of the Lord Jesus. Save
only one Apostle, whose chosen mission it
is to win souls to Christ, till he shall eome.
	Again darkness falls upon the earth!
	The authority to act in the name of the
Lord Jesus, has returned to the heavens,
through those who held it having suffered
martyrdom and death, in every imaginable
form, by the hand of violence.
	The believers struggle on, but their hearts
often cry out,
		“Watchman, what of the night?”
	The scriptures give forth an uncertain
light, in this day of gloom, or we but dimly
understand. Still the Holy Ghost forsakes
not those, entirely, who grope in the dark-
ness for God. Yet the shadows of night
have fallen on all the world, causing the
earth to groan for long ages.
	The Council of Nice has met. The brigh-
test lights of the existing Church, have de-
clared, that God is a non-entity; is incom-
prehensible, yet indestructible. All knowl-
edge of God is lost! Many go to and fro in
the earth, seeking the true God, and the old
way of approaching him, but in despair they
cry, in vain they call, O, Watchman, what
of the night?
	After a time a Luther arises, a Wycliffe,
a Knox, and a few shades of light, pene-
trates, the all peryading gloom.
	These Reformers with others, accomplish
much for mankind. The scriptures are now
within the reach of God’s children.
	In other paths, believers seek for Christ
earnestly desiring to discern the footsteps of
the Lord, but die, confessing they have not
found the way the ancients took.
	Then John Wesley stands forth, declaring
“All the world is my parish.” Earnestly and
prayerfully, he sought the way marked ont
by Christ, and his Apostles, but alas! in vain.
	As a great Reformer, he stands before the
world, and much light is given unto him.
A church is established, much good accom-
plished, yet with sorrow in the evening of

[Column 2]
his life he laments the sad truth, that he
has acted without authority, in the name of
the Lord Jesus.
	So the world continues on; one after an-
other arises, eagerly scanning the pages of
Holy Writ, feeling the certainty of their in-
sufficient light, asking again and again the
question, “Watchman, what of the night?”
until the early dawn of the 19th century.
	Then one was born into the world, with a
a destiny it could not read. He for a few
years walked in the path, that his fathers
had trod. But when the great revival time
came, and He beheld the spectacle, of the
ministers dividing the spoil among their re-
spective churches; some of the members, of
even his own family, joining one sect and
some another, the natural question, of which
one was right, and which one he should
connect himself with, enters his mind.
	Sufficient of the light of the Holy Ghost
burns within him, that he reads the script-
ures with an understanding heart. So he
decides to ask his heavenly Father, who has
said, “If any man lacks wisdom, let him
ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally,
and upbraideth not, and it shall be given
him.”
	The answer came, in an overwhelming
burst of light! The heavens were opened,
and two glorious personages appeared to the
boy’s startled vision; and one pointing to
the other said, “This is my beloved Son,
hear ye him.”
	An angel was sent from the courts of
glory, who announced that his name was
Moroni. That he it was, who had sealed up
the records of the Everlasting Gospel, and
hid them in the hill Cumorah; there to
await God’s command to, come forth. That
the time was now fulfilled; the set time had
come, quoting the first part of the third
chapter of Malachi, and all of the fourth,
differing but slightly, from that given in
King James translation; also some othr
scripture. The youthful prophet was in-
formed that these things were about to take
place.
	Behold the glorious rays of light, that
now envelope the sleeping world! Behold,
another Dispensation has been ushered in;
God’s voice had again been heard, speaking
to man!
	In the few succeeding years, the Church
of Jesus Christ is established on the earth,
with a promise, that it shall never more be
thrown down, or given to another people.
Prophets and Apostles again among men;
the authority of heaven restored again!
	People, few at first rally around the stand-
ard of truth, set up in the new century.
Men again act by the authority delegated to
them, by Christ himself.
	The world all in wonder, may well ask
“Watchman, what of the night?”
		O, the shadows are fleeing away,
		To usher in the perfect day.
	But the powers of darkness, which ever
assail the work of God, are brought to bear
on the infant Church. God has said, “in
the mouth of two or three witnesses, every
word shall be established,” and it came to
pass.
	The Prophet, as all his brother prophets
have done before him, walks the thorny
road of persecution.
	Dark clouds again lower; of his closest
friends, some turn to foes. He is assailed
on the right hand, and on the left. But
when the great need came, thanks be to
God, friends fearless and true, are raised up,
and the Gospel ship, steadily sails over the
turbulent, stormy sea.

[Column 3]
	Persecution is rife, yet the work of God,
goes on apace, ever guided by his unerring
hand. At length every blessing and key
pertaining to the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant has been bestowed on man.
	The powers of darkness, now make a fear-
ful onslaught; to destroy Jehovah’s work;
seeking at one fell blow, to accomplish its
overthrow; aiming at nothing less than the
murder of his chosen leaders.
		“O, Watchman, what of the night?”
	The pall of death has fallen; the Prophet
and Patriarch no more! Over lands far be-
yond the sea, falls a cloud of dread fore-
bodings. O, surely a terrible thing has hap-
pened! With crushing force, the awful truth
falls on Zion. O, ye who would give your
lives for his, be comforted! He hath not
left you comfortless; he loved you unto the
end.
	Now are dark days come; dismal and dis-
tressing thoughts fill fearful hearts. Amid
prayers and tears, hear the cry, “Watch-
man, what of the night?”
	Steady, be not moved. God’s work rolls
on apace.
	The blow that deprives the Church, of be-
loved Prophet and Patriarch, places on their
heads a martyr’s crown. Gives them entrance
over the portal, where are those who gave
their lives for the testimony of Jesus, im-
ages past. Now, two of the noblest of the
sons of earth, are ushered into their pres-
ence; where under the Great White Throne,
they join with them, in the cry, of “How
long, O, Lord, how long.” A white robe is
given to them also, and to them God says
“Yet a little while longer, until all shall be
gathered here, whose blood the world will
shed, for the testimony like unto yours.”
	O, stricken Church! O, weeping Saints!
What of the night, whose shadows so thick-
ly fall?
	Lift your heads, dry your tears, for God,
your defender, will deliver you; will lead
you safely through the troubled waters, and
plant your feet forever, on the glorious prom-
sed land. As he lead his children of old,
extending deliverance unto them, so will he
lead you. They were trodden down by op-
pressors; forced to make bricks without
straw, yet by his arm, were they delivered.
	“One like unto Moses, will raise up, him
shall you follow. By my hand he is direct-
ed, him shall you follow. Obedience and
humility are required of you, safety and de-
liverance your sure reward. Get ye out over
raging rivers, over burning plains, to a land
that I will show thee.”
	The stopping place is unknown; enemies
behind, who threaten dire destruction, the
broad Mississippi before, frozen over as by
the finger of God, that Latter Day Israel
too, shall pass over dry shod.
	The broad rolling plains, where roams the
wild Indian, stretch for hundreds of miles
trackless as a wilderness they seem before
them. What wonder that in anguish of soul,
they often cry “Watchman, what of the
night?”
	The great leader makes answer, in tones
clear and unmistakable, “Onward, we go
onward.”
	Highways are cast up, rivers are forded.
Some stop to sow and reap, while others
press forward, to find the resting place.
	And as of old, God went before, and was
in their rearward. The tender and weak,
grew tired and weary, and lay them down
to rest on the prairies lone and still: and
like them of other days, their mortal eyes
never behold Canaan’s fertile land.
		(Concluded on page 46.)


[Column 1]
WATCHMAN, WHAT OF THE NIGHT?
		(Continued from page 42.)
	But bound to them even in death, their
graves mark the trail of the sturdy pioneers.
The rising mounds serve as sign posts, to
those who journey onward, ever onward.
Lead by prophets and apostles they seek the
place, where they can serve God, according
to the dictates of their own conscience, far
beyond the boundaries of their fellow-man
By the shores of the great Dead Sea of Ame-
rica, they halt their journey.
	The prophet speaks “This is the place.
Here where the mountains, eternal sentinels
of heaven, ever stand guard, and the voices
of other ages are still echoing through their
waving pines, this is the place.”
	“Here shall the Temple stand. Here
shall the busy bees of Deseret rear the sanc-
tuary of the Lord, and the children of the
Saints shout Hosannahs to his name.”
Watchman, what of the night, dawns the
perfect day not yet?
	“Across plains and seas send my faithful
servants forth; this gospel of the kingdom,
must be preached in all the world as a wit-
ness, to all nations, then shall the end
come.”
	Messengers, thousands upon thousands,
go according to his word.
	In the mountain fastnesses, they plough
and reap: the busy hum of industry and life
rings through the valleys.
	Behold! The Temple stands, on its pre-
dicted spot, and Moroni, emblazoned in
gold, trumpet in hand, stands up on his ex
alted station.
	Watchman, what of the night? Delayeth
the Lord his coming?
	Prophets and apostles are sleeping in the
valley, heeding not the teeming, busy
sounds. Wheat and corn flourish, where the
sage brush thickly grew, and the sun flower
raised its wanton, golden head.
	Streams innumerable, burst from Nat-
ure’s reservoirs, hidden in the frozen bul-
warks, that surround this City of the Saints
	The capstone of the Temple has been laid,
while thousands shout “Hosannah to God
in the highest!”
	Over land and sea the gospel still is borne,
to them who sit in darkness.
	To Zion, sons and daughters gather from
afar; they would learn the ways nf the Lord,
and walk in his paths. 
	O, Watchman, what of the night?
	See ye not the morning light?
	“Not yet, hath the end come, butdraweth
nigh.”
	Thousands still groan under the oppres-
sor’s yoke, their souls in fetters bound. To
them shall the gospel come, they shall be
free!
	“Send mine other servants forth!”
Prisons may await you their doors yawn open
	wide,
But take your journey forth, though ev’ry ill be
	tide.
Death too, may close vour mission, Nature’s
	earthly sleep,
But crowns await the faithful, who their cov’nants
	keep.
A glorious one is given to ev’ry martyred one,
Whose jewels far outshine the glitt’ring noonday
	sun.
Lo! the appointed time, so long foretold is come.
When scattered Israel too, shall all be gathered
	home.
Lo! I am with you always, even to the end,
Though by the world rejected, yet my power I’ill
	send.
The gospel of the kingdom must all people hear,
Ere the end shall be and, in judgment Christ ap-
	pear.

[Column 2]
In Zion’s Centre Stake, the glorious Temple
	stand.
And Holy, Holy, be the name of all the land.
	O, watchman, say. what of the night?
		Dawns not yet the morning light?
	World. hear the Watchman’s sounding cry,
		“The perfect day draweth nigh!”
