A Gift Shop at Christmas Time By Minnie J. Hardy Just when the owner of The Gift Shop, had decided to sell the lease and close out the stock, the manager was suddenly taken ill, I was very much in need of a little change for "mind, body and estate" and as the position was offered to me, I decided to go down and take charge of the sale. I opened the shop at 9 a. M. And just as I started to dust off the show cases, a little girl, with a small purse clasped in her tiny hand, entered. Her beautiful little face was radiant with the joy that only the heart of a trusting child can experience. The joy of giving, with no thought of reward except the gratitude, and appreciation of the loved one who is to receive the gift. "I want to buy a present for my mama," she lisped. CARLYON KHEENE MY FIRST CUSTOMER "Yes, dear," I answered. "What do you think your mama would like?" "Truly, I don't just know. I want something nice but it must 
 not cost too much for I must buy something for baby brother." "Oh! That will be darling for him," she spied a small unbreakable mush set, bowl, plate and pitcher, with a picture of a dog following a jolly old Santa Claus, stamped on either side. "Flow much does that cost?" she inquired cautiously. I told her the price was seventy-five cents. "ll buy that for brother. I know he wiil like it," she' remarked, "But, I must buy mama's present first. See, I have five dollars." My small customer, seeing so many pretty things, was getting a little bewildered so I came to her rescue and suggested: "Here is a beautiful Venetian glass bowl with a dark stand. Mother can use it either for fruit or flowers. It will make an attractive center piece for the table or buffet. It is only one dollar and seventy-five cents. This is a gift any lady would enjoy and appreciate." My interesting young shopper hesitated for a moment then answered: "T'll take one please. Mama will like a blue one best. Now let me see—I must find something for my girl friend." We looked about, she pricing many articles. Finally she decided on a small, unique bottle of perfume. Seventy-five cents more, a total of three dollars and twenty-five cents. "How much does that cost?" she asked, looking wistfully at a tiny, blue and gold Bohemian glass trinket in the show case. Before our sale, it had been priced at two dollars, but as it was slightly damaged, just a little nick in the rim, which no one would ever notice in the wide world, it gave me a chance to offer the dear child a real bargain. I examined it carefully, pondered in a thoughtful manner and finally said: "You may have this exquisite crystal heart for twenty-five cents." Her face was like the spring flowers when they lift their: heads to greet the sunshine after an April shower. "T'll buy it," she exclaimed and handed me her five dollar bill. I gave her the change, packed the gifts in a strong box and placed them in her tiny, outstretched arms. "Carry it carefully, won't you, my dear?" "Oh yes, I'll be very careful. Thank you for helping me. I did not think I could buy so much for the money, good-bye." The shop was flooded with sunshine. Truly, my work was going to be very pleasant, if it meant dispensing happiness and receiving it two-fold. MANLY YouTH AND LoveELyY MAIDEN A handsome, young man with a sweet girl clinging to his coat sleeve, were my next customers. "T see you have some jewelry in the window," he remarked, "we would like to look at some rings." A GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 587 The sweet girl blushed as she cast an admiring glance at her hero. I placed two trays of rings on the show case. Evidently, they were not what they were looking for.. Then, these two young people looked at each other with an expression' that only love can impart to human eyes and with a silent telepathy that _ only lovers can understand. Then the young man said courageously, "It isa wedding ring we want. We are going to be married in the Temple tomorrow morning." Ah! Did I not know? Had I not had the great experience? How well I remembered my simple little wedding ring, and oh! The inexplicable joy it brought to me. I found a tray of the very latest in wedding rings, from which the happy pair selected a narrow platinum band, and I saw tears of joy in the sweet girl's eyes as her handsome lover placed the shining circle upon her slender finger. Manly youth and lovely maiden. Of all God's marvelous creation, the most perfect and beautiful. As I reached under the counter to find a suitable box for the ring, | found myself recalling some lines written a long time ago by our beloved American poet Henry W. Longfellow: "Love is sunshine, hate is shadow. Life is checkered, shade and sunshine, Rule by love O Hiawatha! See the moon looks down upon us Fills our lodge with magic splendor, O my children, day is restless, night is quiet. Man imperious, woman feeble. Rule by patience, Laughing Water." And somewhere it has been said, "Whom God hath joined together, let no man put asunder." I wished: them a long life of happiness and prosperity. They thanked me and went their way rejoicing. BUSINESS PLus— Then came Miss C the wholesome, pictical business, bachelor girl, selecting Christmas presents for her employees. "Something pretty and useful, yet not too expensive. You see I have so many people to remember. " Pondering, smiling, she selected a variety of gifts, then the generous woman heart overcame the practical business head. Miss C. Was so completely captivated by the Christmas spirit, that she threw prudence and economy to the wind and bravely chose a beautiful French cut, steél-beaded bag. "Put this away for sister's Christmas present," she, whispered, "Gt is for a surprise. She must not know about it." 1 My next customer was the wife of a grandson of the famous 
 and much beloved pioneer Brigham Young. Her purchases selected, she instructed me to send them to a given address, with the explanation: "I am due at a meeting of the Relief Society right now, and hurried away. Other shoppers required my attention for quite a while, and when I found time to wrap up Mrs. Young's package, I found I o- - ~ OB avax FROM DALLIN S FAMOUS 'APPEAL TO THE GREAT SPIRIT' DALLIN'S "APPEAL TO THE GREAT SPIRIT" had unfortunately lost her address. I finally obtained her address from the telephone directory. In Far Away ITALY "Please madame, I would like to buy that leetle monument in the window. How much heem cost?". I raised my head from beneath the counter where I was unpacking some additional stock and was greeted thus, by a sturdy, bronze son of sunny Italy, clad in clean, new overalls, the uniform A GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 589 of the honest working man, the producer and builder. "I'd like to buy heem, the leetle monument, because he look up to hees God, so!" The Italian raised his hands with a quaint gesture so typical of the people of southern Europe and cast his dark eyes heavenward in a reverential manner that was quite picturesque. "That, I explained is called, 'The Appeal to the Great Spirit.' Designed by Mr. Cyrus Dallin, a native of Springville, Utah. I. Am told a Ute Indian posed for the artist. They are often used for book ends or ornaments for the desk or mantel." "T like heem," he repeated. "He look up. How much heem cost?" He reached for his purse. "You can buy a pair for twelve dollars or a single statue for six dollars. They are cast in bronze and will last forever." I informed him. With hands that were hard and rough from honest toil, this son of-Rome counted his money carefully and hesitated—. Then the soul of the artist, the descendant of a hundred ancestors who had understood and loved the fine arts for which Italy is so famous, decided: "Td like to have two, he is so beautiful. I like to send this leetle monument home for my madre in Tuceny. She always say: 'Merricutio, my son, look up. God, he not down, he is up. Look up to heem and pray and he will help you.' And he has helped me madame; in one more year, my madre, she will come to live with me. I worka for de Utah Power and Light Companee. Da maka de light fora de city. I buy a small house and garden. My madre she will have a cow and chickens, she will be veree happee here with me. Wrap heem up, yes! I taka two, one will go to Tuceny. I thank you madame, veree, veree much. These things da maka me veree happee inside my heart." The Italian laborer closed the door—. The store seemed very quiet and in that tranquil stillness, I kept thinking, "Look up to God, he will help you." Yes! Years ago when my eyes were blinded with tears of sorrow and trouble, I found a light amid the darkness and heard a voice which said: "Look to the hills, from whence cometh thy strength," and amid the glory and magnificent beauty of the mountains, I found help from God for every need, courage to weather every storm, peace and harmony sufficient to supply every day witha liberal measure of happiness. The day wore away. It was during the Latter-day Saints fall conference. The city was full to overflowing with people from all parts of the state, enjoying delightful meetings in the tabernacle and ward meeting houses and between these brotherly and sisterly gatherings, many of them spent pleasant moments purchasing presents to take back to the dear ones at home. A book for Uncle Joshua, a fancy tea pot for grandma. China dishes for Aunt 
 Catherine and Mary Jane. Rings and bracelets for the dear girls at home. This, that and something else. It was very late when the last of these interesting shoppers left the store. I gladly counted my. Cash and closed up for the night. Tue CHILD oF A PIONEER The early autumn morning heralding our hazy Indian summer, dawned bright and beautiful. The mountains and foothills were a blaze in their royal robes of red and gold. The Aspen leaves were shimmering, golden chandeliers reflecting the glory of the sun-flowers and rabbit bush that carpeted the valley and hillsides. Nature, like a middle-aged society hostess, smiled on all the world. How I did enjoy that delightful walk through the temple grounds that never-to-be-forgotten morning. [Tor a brief moment, I -had lived with the pioneers. It seemed I could see the plodding oxen, patiently hauling those huge blocks of granite from the distant mountains, one at a time, day after day, winter and summer. Cheerfully working, hoping, planning this great perfect, picturesque house of God. Their labor, which was indeed a labor of love has been finished for many years, and all of us that now enjoy the fruits of their hard toil, should daily raise our voices in thanks and praise for the lesson of courage, patient perseverance and unfaltering faith they taught and for the houses of worship they have erected for us to enjoy. But, alas! Work "ladies" have no time to loiter in the temple grounds on week-day mornings. The shop must be opened in good time and so farewell for a little while to the Sea Gull monument, the first pioneer home, the great historic Tabernacle and the lovely fragrant flowers around that magnificent temple with its great golden statue of Moroni, forever heralding his message of everlasting life to all the world. I placed my stock on display and found I was unusually happy. Life seemed to have a much more pleasant outlook, as bread cast upon the waters, I found by helping to make others happy, happiness was returning to me, yea, an hundred fold. "Good morning, sister," I greeted a little wrinkled old lady, who afterward told me she was the daughter of early pioneers, born in a covered wagon as her parents were crossing the plains. "My! My! But this is a lovely morning.' She placed her hand bag and several other packages on the counter. "But, my land's sakes, all of our mornings are lovely here in Utah. Why, I tell my grandson, we don't need to die Ao go to heaven these days, for heaven is right here on earth; yes ma'am, right here in Utah. Brigham Young surely knew what he was talking about when he said: 'This is the place.' " "Ves, I'll take one of them Indian baskets. It will be just the thing to keep my stockings and mending in." There seemed a vacant place in the store when my optimistic A GIFT SHOP AT. CHRISTMAS TIME 591 customer closed the door. A woman who had weathered the hardships of the new frontier; who had endured gaunt poverty that grinds the heart and gaping loneliness that starves the soul. This simple child of the grey desert and dismal foothills, with no opportunity for an education of any kind, had learned the greatest lesson life has to offer; how to find Paradise here on earth. EsTHER Hunt: "Good morning," I instantly recognized the musical voice of my Mrs. Young. "Oh! Mrs. Young—," I began. "That is perfectly all right. I'm in no hurry," interrupted the melodious voice. I just came to tell you I have decided to take one of those Esther Hunt heads. They are so sweet and natural, just like a little Chinese child. Every time I look at them I recall these lines of a song I learned in Sunday school years ago." She sang in a low, rich voice. "Red and yellow, black and white All are precious in His sight." "T love all children, they are a joy to me, and Esther Hunt is surely a great artist. Her faces are so beautiful and tender."' "Yes, Mrs. Young," I went on to explain, "Esther Hunt traveled in China and got the little children of the Orient to pose for her work, so they are copied with the vividness of life." "I want this head for a Christmas present for my daughter," the lady stated as she paid me and again graciously gave me her address. Lortunate daughter to have such a mother. All mothers love their children, but there are many who do not understand that we cannot live by bread alone; that there are times in our lives when we must have food to satisfy our famished intellect, and that is why God created Raphael, Esther Hunt, Cyrus Dallin, Rose O'Neil and other great artists, God bless them. I hope years after my Mrs. Young has gone to her reward, her daughter will look lovingly at the face of the little Chinese child and say: "My mother gave me this. Mother was always so thoughtful and so dear; the very best friend I ever had. I would not take all the money in the world for mother's precious gift, it means so much to me.' INCENSE Then there came the tall, stout, middle-aged woman whose hands told of hard work; a clean, tidy kitchen; well-cooked meals; neatly mended clothes and everything in its place. She was accompanied by a prosperous, old-fashioned man who had passed middle age and who was now enjoying the fruits of honest toil, combined with the good business management of his excellent.! 
 competent companion, who had proved herself a helpmate through all the years. "What can I do for you today?" I asked cheerily. "Oh, we are just looking around,' promptly replied Prosperous Husband. But to his astonishment, his wife boldly walked forward and inquired if I had any incense. Prosperous Husband looked at his companion as if he thought she had lost her senses. "Incense! What is that?" he questioned. "Oh, it smells like a camp fire at night, and I love the smell of burning boughs. Ever since we have had gas to cook with, I have missed the smell of the tamarac and pines I used to burn when the children were small. "Don't you remember when Ephraim was a baby, how he used to sit on the floor, near the old fashioned fire-place, and clap his little hands, when you came 'stomping' in with an armful of pine and cedar?" "Oh, well, Ma, if you want it, get it, but remember you was the one who wanted a gas stove." His voice sounded like the booming of funeral guns over the grave of some departed soldier. I could read his thoughts—, "Whatever will the women folks want next?" J "Yes, Pa, I did want gas, it is so much cleaner and easier to cook with. I am not as young as I used to be and since Amos is a bishop and Ephraim president of this stake, I want to have everything nice and up to date when they come home with their stylish wives; and why shouldn't I? We can afford it, and that is just why I want the incense.". "Now, I know why Maude's house smells like a Chinese Joss house." Prosperous Husband smiled grimly as if he had something on the women of the family and continued: "I thought she had burned the jelly she was making, so I didn't say anything. It just smells like burnt nutmeg to me. A waste of money, I call it. But, here you are." Reluctantly he handed her a five dollar bill, saying: 'We came to town to enjoy ourselves, so go ahead." Being in possession of real money, the starved soul of the woman asserted itself; she decided she wanted a bottle of perfume and one of fine French bath salts; a bag of sachet powder, and as the shadows deepened on Prosperous Husband's gloomy ccuntenance, she Selected a picture of a robin sitting in the snow and singing as if his tiny throat would burst. [ expected an explosion at any moment, but nothing happened. The faithful woman, who had been a successful wife and mother, with one son president of a Church stake organization; another son in a ward bishopric, paid her bill and departed. For further shopping. I knew full well why she wanted that picture. The Optimist—, her brave heart had sung as she worked through the dark days A GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 593 and the lean years; through the storms of adversity and trials; through bitter disappointments; sickness, and even when the Grim Reaper, had entered the little home and carried away her loved ones, she had been found "Standing By," the very backbone of the whole family. It was her willing, efficient hands that had helped to guide the family ship through the rough storms of hardship and trouble, and now that prosperity had come to make her home with them she could afford to soar to the blue sky of happiness, which to her meant: a home imparting the odor of pine boughs; bed linen fragrant with the perfume of lavender and wild violets, these for her successful children when they came home to visit. A Great GRANDSON OF BRIGHAM YOUNG A bright, sturdy little boy with an earnest expression on his handsome face stood near the counter. "Sonny, what would you like?" was my greeting. "How much is that statue of Brigham Young in the window?" he questioned. "That, my boy, was one dollar and fifty cents before our sale, but you may have it for seventy-five cents," I told him. He counted his money, two quarters, two dimes and five pennies. "Tl take it," he declared smiling. "I want to give it to mother. Brigham Young is mother's grandfather." He gazed proudly toward the great bronze statue of the famous pioneer in the middle of the street. 'Mother will love to have it. She says, if we are only half as kind and loving, strong and brave as he was, she will always be proud of us." Hugging the gift close to his happy, little heart he hurried away. F ADORABLE Who ever said work is a hardship? Why, my work was proving to be a fountain of pleasure; a regular storehouse of happiness, just waiting to be distributed and carried into homes. Here in the city. ~ Besides, every day the mails were taking by parcel post to a far away favored one some substantial remembrance from Utah. A beautiful little miss about sixteen and her indulgent father, who resembled the old-fashioned pictures of Andrew Jackson, were my next callers. He explained that his daughter was to give a party to some girl friends and she wished to buy six small presents. "No, Daddy dear, I don't want beads, nor a compact. They are 'blase'." Her dainty, well-poised head was held high. "No, Daddy dear, I really don't care for perfume. Oh no! I could not give combs or handkerchiefs, I really couldn't." Surely this young girl had a mind of her own which I admired very much. She would know' what she wanted when she 
 found it, but it must be novel and different. Here, thinks I, is where I must be an unbound edition of Moses and Solomon combined. It requires wisdom and tact to handle this parcel of real knowledge and loveliness. I thereby drew her attention to oy small French China powder boxes, that resembled young ladies. "Observe," said I, "these dainty little ladies, who are dressed in the fashion of the French Revolution. See! You just lift one up and there beneath the ruffles and puffs of her full skirt, is the powder box. _You will not find anything like them any place else in the city." "Oh, Daddy, dear, these are quite adorable. Don't you think so? So adorable, very, very new. I will take six of these. Please give me one of each color, blue, pink, green, lavender, yellow and violet. The girls will be delighted, don't you think so, Daddy, dear? I know Imogene and Alice Mary will just love them. I adore these unusual presents, don't you, Daddy?" Daddy readily agreed they were adorable and remarked: "Sweetheart, you will need some favors. Here are some very' pretty ones." He picked up a little Japanese lady made of silk and gold cloth. But "Sweetheart" would have none of them. "No, Daddy, dear, I cannot use these when I am to have ships." Ships, it is, thinks I. Ships were produced and decided upom Daddy paid the bill, raised his high hat, proudly helped his darling daughter into. The waiting Rolls-Royce and drove away.. I hope sometime in the distant years to come, "Sweetheart" will be a Congress woman, but whatever she decides upon, she will be a success. That's a settled fact. Gop ForBID As I was replacing my disordered stock, a well-dressed, selfsatisfied appearing woman approached me. "Have you anything in a 'lady's smoker?" she asked. 'Leapin' lizzards!" my jaws came together like a trap. "A lady's smoker?" Angels and minister of grace defend us. I excused myself and hastened to the back of the store, trying to regain my composure and get control of my old fashioned Welsh temper. I wanted to say, and very emphatically, too: "Ladies don't smoke. Leave this shop immediately." But, I knew my employer would not approve of such a procedure. He would not want me to be uncivil or rude to anyone, although I knew he would disapprove of a woman smoking just as much as I do. I thought of my darling little daughter, sleeping on the flowercovered slope of Owen's Valley, and I would much rather go to my grave with a lonely heart and empty arms than to have her grown to womanhood and become a victim of that vile, injurious, ' 1 GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 595 degrading habit. I dashed the tears of righteous indignation from my eyes and said mentally: "Hortense, you are slipping. Get a grip on yourself. Remember Lord Byron said: 'My faithful dog, I envy thee thy speechless tongue.' " Withal, I could not help thinking that grandma was the daughter of a Welsh nobleman. Mother was for two years, a lady in waiting for the Dowager Duchess of Cumberland and father always said his cousin Ann Johnson, was housekeeper for the Earl De Gray at Castle—, Howard Castle for many years; yet, in all the forty-nine years-plus that I have lived on this terrestrial sphere, thirty of them spent with the aforesaid experienced authority on the subject of noblemen and women, IJ had never heard of a "lady's smoker." No one to my knowledge ever smoked but poor, ignorant, peasant women, and women whom I would blush to name on these pages. However, when I returned, J mustered up a faint smile and said: "We do not keep anything of that kind. I thank you." How I wish there was a law to invest some good judicial, motherly, old lady with the authority to take that misguided, erring, spoiled child of God over her knee and give her a sound spanking; right where she deserved it most. In Men Wuom MEN ConpDEMN As ILL The weather was rapidly becoming colder. The October days were growing shorter. Lights were turned on at five o'clock. My employer, requested me to keep the shop open until nine, as it would only be ten days until the sale was over. My assistant, a young girl who had journeyed alone, all the way from South Africa that she might enjoy the privileges of the Latter-day Saints Church, went home at six p. M. So, I spent the remaining three hours alone. The first part of the evening passed most pleasantly. A gracious little lady from Kentucky, who had been obliged to come to Utah on business and finding our prices much cheaper than in the east or south, spent some time selecting a cashmere rug; a China breakfast set, designed and painted by the peasant women of Czechoslovakia; two Aztec water bottles; a Japanese lemonade set; several brass candle sticks and two French vases. These beautiful purchases were to be sent to adorn her horhe in Mount Sterling, Kentucky. "A fortune in a wife is worth a thousand times more than a fortune with a wife." Happy and fortunate indeed is the husband who is blessed with such a charming, frugal and lovely wife as Mrs. Kilpatrick. I looked at the clock—fifteen minutes to nine. I was tired and eager to close the place of business and go home. A gentleman sauntered in and asked to see some moccasins. "What size, please?" I placed the desired moccasins in two 
 different designs upon the counter saying: "These are made of elk hide. They will wear well and give comfort. We also have these beaded ones.' A shabbily dressed man entered and without speaking, walked down to the end of the store and stood looking into a show case very close to the cash register. Some way, I was filled with misgivings. I excused myself and went to the new customer and asked: "What can I do for you tonight?" He gazed at me with a strange, desperate expression on his unshaven face and replied that he wanted a souvenir of Salt Lake. I felt a little afraid. F{ didn't like the thought of being left alone in the store with this stranger. I hoped he would leave before the other customer. But the gentleman who wanted the moccasins, came down to my counter with a pair of beaded ones. "T'll take this pair," he said. Like lightning, the thought passed through © my mind: "Render therefore unto Caesar, the things which are Caesar's." I knew there was about one hundred and seventy-five' dollars in the cash register. For a moment I felt bewildered, but pretend. Ing to be a trifle annoyed, I remarked: "These moccasins are three twenty five. I hope you have the exact change, my employer—" "I understand," broke in the gentleman, "It isn't safe to keep any large sum on hand, so I am pleased to pay you the exact amount." He glanced. Carelessly at the shabby stranger. I rang it up on C drawer, the money was in D and E drawers, as we had been using these all day. "Please look around, you may find something else you-might like," I hinted pleasantly, hoping in this way to detain him until the other man would leave. But he hurried away. The door closed and I was alone with this suspicious ee character. "Here are a few inexpensive souvenirs," I commenced. The man was leaning against the counter in a slouched position facing me. Quick as a flash the hand which he held in the right outside pocket of his coat was jerked upward and pointed at me. A cold chill went down my spine. In a hoarse, hollow voice that trembled, he exclaimed: "Missus, I don't want souvenirs, I reckon what you and that gent said the boss has taken the cash home with him, but you took in some money for them shoes, get it quick and don't holler." To say I was frightened was putting it mild indeed. My hair stood on end, "like quills upon the fretful porcupine." [ realized how Hamlet must have felt when he saw his father's ghost. I gave the man the money and believe me I did not hesitate. Anything to get rid of him. It was the first time in my life I had been held up, but instead of leaving the shop, the man's A GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 597 legs, as well as his voice, trembled, both failed him; he managed to gasp. "Thank ye, lady," then slumped down on a stool and sobbed bitterly. I was so astonished I did not know what to do or say, but someway two thousand years of trouble, anguish, sin and sorrow rolled away and I heard a gentle voice saying: "Render unto God the things that are God's." "The foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head." Then I wondered how much of that money belonged to Caesar anyway. Quick as a flash I was on the other side of the counter. My brother, hungry, here in this great productive state of Utah? God forbid. I could not doubt him. I lost all sense of fear. The Bible says: 'Fear hath torment." Thank God, I was free, for "perfect love casteth out fear." The man looked up and saw the changed expression on my face. "Missus," he questioned, "why ain't you afraid of me?" "Why should I be afraid of my brother? I will help you." I answered calmly. "Lady, I ain't a criminal, honest. I have no gun, that was only my pipe I had in my pocket. I'm sick and hungry., Don't give me up to the cops. It is the first time in my life I ever tried to rob anyone, and you, you look like my mother." "Come, come, I said briskly. Of course, you are not a criminal. I would not let you be one. I will lend you that money. Let it be a business deal. When you feel better, I will help you. To find employment, then you can return the loan. Brace up! It's a good hot supper you need." "Lady, do ye mean that ye won't give me up?" he cried brokenly in a dazed, bewildered manner. "Of course, I mean every word I say. Why shouldn't I help you? You are ill but you will soon feel better. I have a friend who owns a garage and only today, he told me he needs a man to clean cars. You can do that work, I know. He pays union wages and if you make good, I am sure he will keep you." "Lady," he began—then his voice choked and he could say no more. "Come," I said, "I will go with you to a restaurant." As he rose to his feet, he brushed the teats of gratitude from his eyes and a faint smile appeared about the corners of his drooping mouth. "Missus, you are a true friend." I left him in a nearby restaurant, sitting before well filled plates and very busily employed. D "Good night, brother, come tomorrow at nine a. M. And I will accompany you to the garage," I said at parting. 
 I hurried back to the shop, to find the janitor there ready to begin sweeping. "Oh, Mr. Anderson," I explained, "I haven't put my cash in the safe." I counted the money with a thankful heart and as I put the cash away and covered the: stock that was on display on tables and counters, my mind wandered back to the last night I spent with my dear friend, that great, magnificent, picturesque Californian—, Joaquin Miller, the Poet of the Sierras. We sat on the steps of his small mountain cabin on the Heights and watched the glorious sun go drifting out across the blue Pacific, and later as the twinkling stars lit up the purple canopy above the great, busy city of San Francisco, my friend of the white soul and kind heart, put his arm lightly across my shoulders and said with deep feeling: "My dear, my work on earth is nearly finished. My soul will soon embark. My ashes will be strewn here among the trees ] have planted and love so well. As we sit here and gaze out beyond the Golden Gate, I keep thinking of that poem you wrote for me:" The air is chill and the night grows late, And the moon rides high o'er the Golden Gate. Her silver luster, she flashes down. On the silent fort and the sleeping town.: In the shimmering distance I see a sail, That leaves in its wake a glowing trail. On that phantom barque, I will go in state To my heavenly home, through the Golden Gate. I sat on the step just below him and rested my hedd against his knee. I could not speak. I was lost in a profound reverie. "Yes, my dear," he continued. "It will only be a little while. I am going to give you 'my book, I want you to keep it to remember me by when I am gone to Paradise. I have marked one of my favorite poems. It is one I wrote when I placed a wreath of California flowers on the grave of George Gordon Lord Byron, one of England's sweetest singers.' Remember Joaquin "Miller! ' The memory of that wonderful night and that, marvelous poem will remain with me while life lasts: In men whom men condemn as ill, I find so much of goodness still; In men whom men have called divine, I find so much of sin and blot I would not dare to draw a line Between the two, where God has not. My employer is a busy man, busy with the affairs of the fi A GIFT SHOP AT CHRISTMAS TIME 599 L. D. S. Church, so I did not tell him of my cash register experience. I knew him to be a kind, just man who seasoned his justice 'with a liberal measure of mercy, and would approve of whatever I thought best to do under the' circumstances, so I deemed it best to say nothing. Just as I was ready to go home the night before we closed. Out, my forlorn friend called upon me. What a change had taken place. He was no longer a forlorn, hungry outcast, but an honest working man, clean shaven, neatly dressed and wearing a smile that did my eyes good to look upon. "Good evenin', Missus," his voice sounded strong and vibrant. I greeted him pleasantly. 'Well, how are you getting along, my friend?" "QO, just splendid, Missus, thank you, and its all due to your great kindness. Believe me, Ill never forgit you either. Here, I want to pay you, that money, principal and interest, too." He handed me a five dollar bill. '""That money was the best investment you ever made. It saved me from becoming a criminal, and as God is my judge I did not want to steal, but I was simply driven desperate with hunger and sickness." "My friend!" I said, "I'll take the principal, but cannot accept the interest as you have not had the loan thirty days yet, and business is business.": Yes! I realized I had made a good investment. Sometimes I think we are living in a strange world, here in a land of abundance and luxury, yet some of us are so unfortunate we can hardly get the wherewith upon which to exist. For six weeks I had been selling little expensive trinkets to bring added joy to people who are so well supplied with worldly goods that they do not know what to do with what they have, let alone acquiring any more. Yet, when the opportunity came for me to lend a little timely aid, it enabled me to buy a good, useful citizen-for the community; freedom from prison for an unfortunate brother; 'to restore to him, confidence in himself and the world; honor, health and happiness. Yes, a good, a very good investment, and yet, John Ross, I would still ask a greater reward; I hope my prayers have bought your soul for God. 1 appreciate your gratitude, but do not want you to feel indebted to me. It was my privilege to help you. We must demonstrate by our daily walk that we believe in the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. When you see someone else in need, pass it on. "For in as much as ye have done it unto one of the least of God's children, ye have done it unto Me." And yet, my friend, let us always remember that: "Of myself I can do nothing. It is the Father which dwelleth within that doeth the work. And all things are possible with God." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   Magazine  Vor. XIV DECEMBER, 1927 No.