Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Planning to Provide a Year's Supply Elder Mark B. Garff and Gertrude R. Garff 507
Four New Members Appointed to Relief Society General Board: Josie Barnson Bay Evelyn Wilde Heath 513
Alta Jensen Vance Madeleine P. Stevens 514
Christine Hinckley Robinson Rae B. Barker 515
Alberta Huish Christensen Vesta P. Crawford 516
Relief Society Building News 518
Storing Food in a Basement Velma N. Simonsen 527
Storing Food in a Two-room Apartment Esther Clark Naylor 529
The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing Florence Jepperson Madsen 552
The Clock Without Hands Jennie Scovil Dusenberry 574

FICTION
The Russells Did Not Go to Church Chapter 1 Edith Russell 523
Questing Lights Chapter 5 Belle Watson Anderson 536
Aunt Millenium's Deone R. Sutherland 540

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 530
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 531
Editorial: "A Friend Loveth at All Times" Marianne C. Sharp 532
Notes to the Field: Annual Stake Conventions Set 533
Annual Relief Society General Conference 533
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 546
From Near and Far 576

FEATURE FOR THE HOME
Heat Waves and Salad Days Elizabeth Williamson 534

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: "As One Having Authority" Elder Don B. Colton 553
Visiting Teachers' Messages: "Where Are the Nine?" Elder H. Wayne Driggs 558
Work Meeting Sewing: Remodeling Dresses Jean Ridges Jennings 559
Literature: Highlights of the Book of Mormon Epic Elder Howard R. Driggs 560
Social Science: Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Elder G. Homer Durham 565
Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (Continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon 568

POETRY
Summer Day Frontispiece Beatrice K. Ekman 505
The Fiddlers Edna S. Dustin 512
Petition Eunice J. Miles 517
Mirror Caroline Eyring Miner 528
Summer Shines With Silken Showers Helen Martin Horne 575
Bishop Hyde Michael Burson 575
Cinderellas Katie Harris Lewis 575
Essentials Alice Whitson Norton 527

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUMMER DAY Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The summer day is languorous with heat, And through my window near the gable eaves There floats a fragrant incense, nectar-sweet, From honeysuckle bloom and brier leaves. The turquoise sky is mirrored in the pool And down the path beneath the elm-tree shade, The overhanging boughs make dim and cool The earth, where changing shadow prints are laid. The bees are noisy in the linden tree, A sparrow stalks a robin on the grass.
This peaceful quiet sets my spirit free And I could wish the day might never pass. The Cover: The Idaho Falls Temple, photograph by L. W. Bacon. VOL. 35, NO. 8 AUGUST 1948 WILD HOLLYHOCKS....Grace T. Kirton Planning to Provide a Year’s Supply Eider Mark B. Gaifi, Member, Genera] Welfare Committee, and Gertrude R. Garff, former Counselor, Relief Society General Presidency But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel (I Timothy, 5:8). THE ultimate temporal success and security of the members of the Church will be determined by the diligence of the people to make themselves self sustaining in all respects. We must understand that we are not only to sustain ourselves, but also to build up the Church financially in order that the Church as an organization may help those members who have met with misfortune and find it impossible to help themselves, Everyone is a potential recipient of help within the Welfare Plan of the Church. No one with few exceptions can justify himself in expecting the Church to take care of his need continually. The Welfare Plan was given to rehabilitate and  encourage members, to bring them back to a point of self-sufficiency, The plan is not a dole. It is not a Process of continually contributing to the individual, who can (when Properly directed) be self-sustaining.
Every man longs for security, no matter how humble his circumstances may be; but there is no justification in expecting t