Father Interferes By Elizabeth Cannon Porter
Angela's father and mother met on the stair landing. "How is Angela feeling?" he asked. "Rather bad, I'm afraid." "Hmph. It's a good thing that we stopped it when we did," he replied laconically and passed on.
Such is man's attitude toward the emotions of women. Every member of the household knew how Angela felt, for it was always reflected in her music. Tonight she had played pieces full of heartache,?the "Flower Song," "Marchita," "Alone." It had been a bad day for Angela.
The night before she had seen Doon Barker at the theatre with Mrs. Alys Berry and it had made her sick. Mrs. Berry was a divorcee and evidently Angela's successor in the young man's affections. Barker had come to see Angela until her father interfered.
In fact, he had been calling and taking her out about three nights a week. They saw each other on an average of every other day. Miss Stone played the piano at the kindergarten. Her father noted that she was late for breakfast; that she was listless for her work, through so much going around. So Mr. Stone, very courteously, asked Mr. Barker what his intentions were toward his daughter. Whereat young Mr. Barker lamely replied that he didn't have any. He was just "out for a good time." So Mr. Stone suggested that he discontinue his frequent calls at his actions might be misinterpreted.
The result was that Doon still called to see the girl but he didn't ask her to go out. He took others out. When questioned about it, he evaded. Then he did not tell the truth about his excursions. He had said that he wasn't at a certain place with a particular person, when he was. So, Mr. Stone sharply requested him to discontinue his visits.
Angela, who was in love with him, pined. It was in vain that she determined that she wouldn't care; she did. The mind does not control the heart. Her reason told her that her father was right, but it hurt her greatly. Her father suffered with her, for his daughter was his soft spot.
"We Americans are the best business men on earth, yet the biggest business of all,?that of getting married and perpetuating the race, we leave to chance and misadventure," he ruminated.
That her lover had so quickly consoled himself with a woman of the Berry type was a blow to Angela's pride, for she knew that she had beauty, charm, education, standing, and family ahead
FATHER INTERFERES 21
of the older woman. Yet Doon did not care enough about her to make the slightest effort for her. People are egotists. No matter what a man does, a woman who has been associated with him is inclined to believe that in his heart of hearts, she is "the one." But Angela had too much sense to believe this. Doon did not want her bad enough to meet the necessary requirements. He preferred the "easiest way."
The sight at the theatre had hurt her beyond words. She had watched the couple as the fascinated monkey surveys the python. With her heart pounding in her chest she had seen the other woman's animated face turned up to his. And his returning slow smile,?the smile that Angela knew so well. Somehow in the darkness she had arisen and stumbled out.
During the night her mind reviewed the details of her association with him,?his tenderness, his "darky dash," even his braggadocio when he told her of things that he was going to do. The next morning she doggedly thumped at the piano, though she had to inhale spirits of ammonia to keep from fainting. "No man is going to spoil my life," she thought fiercely that afternoon. Doon did not love her; he was obviously a man not to be trusted and, as such, was no good to her. She picked up a magazine, It had a story in it about an opera singer who did not cry over spilled milk; she hunted the nearest dairy. Marthe, the French Prima Donna, was giving advice on how to manage men, to another woman: "Nefer run after a shentleman when 'e ees running. Marthe, she 'as been lofed by many messieurs. When zey run, always she sit quiet. When zey come back, varee often Marthe no want zem." But as the night wore on loneliness engulfed Angela. Her mother stealing in on her found her head in her arms at the piano. "What's the matter, Angela?" asked Mirs. Stone smoothing the brown head. "Is it Doon?' "Yes," admitted the girl miserably. "I saw him at the show last night with that Berry woman." "That shows what he is. It only corroborates your father's judgment." Mrs. Stone bristled. "If he hurts you like this now, what would he have done later on? I-guess that you're not the only victim of his 'amusement of the hour.' He is essentially selfish. Young people think that parents should not interfere with their love affairs. Fathers and mothers who have brought children into the world, cared for them, sacrificed for them, fed and clothed and educated them, have a right to be consulted about their marriages, too. Parents have their children's interests. At heart. They can often see things which youth, blinded by emotion, cannot recognize. After the first infatuation wears off, a successful 22) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE marriage is built upon integrity, honor, work, and kindness." "I know." "Your father investigated and had his reasons for taking the course that he did. People seeing a couple together all the time naturally jump at the conclusion that they're engaged, and a girl looses perfectly good chances that she might have in other directions." Struck by the unhappiness in her daughter's face, Mrs. Stone hastened to add: "Perhaps I'm breaking a confidence to tell you, but Bob Leonard called to see your father at the office just before he left on his mission. He explained his sentiments toward you. He said that he did not think that it was right for a man to tie up a young girl during a prolonged absence, but that he would like permission to court you when he came back, Your father considers him a very fine type of manhood," she added significantly. "Did he really?" Angela's face shone April-like through her tears. Poor old Bob, whose letter had lain unanswered in her bureau drawer these past five weeks that she had been mourning the ne'erdo-well Barker. Every time that Bob had tried to get sentimental she had instinctively warded him off. The night of his farewell she had purposely timed their return from the party so he would have to run for the car, and he would have no Oe to exact a promise from her. That night when Angela went to her room she donned a corduroy robe, turned on the light at her bedside table, and penned a long, very kind, letter to Bob Leonard in New Orleans, The End. John Galsworthy describes Queen Victoria's funeral in the following language: "The Queen was dead, and the air of the greatest city upon earth gray with unshed tears. Soames crossed Park Lane on the morning of the funeral procession, to the rails in Hyde Park. In '37, when she came to the throne, coaches still ran; men wore stocks, shaved their upper J'ps, ate their oysters out of barrels; women said, 'la,' and owned no property; there were manners in the land and pigsties for the poor. Well-nigh two generations had slipped by?of steamboats, railways, telegraphs, bicycles, electric light, telephones and now these motor cars.'