Letter to Pres. Clarissa S. Williams and the General Board
From May Booth Talmage, President of the Relief Societies of the European Mission
October 9, 1925.
Dear Sister Williams and Members of the Board:
While reading in the Relief Society Magazine a report of your recent conference, it seemed as if the year since last I saw you had been swept away, and that I was back in the dear old Assembly Hall listening to your voices and drinking in the inspiration of the occasion. How our magazines and newspapers do bridge the distance between us! (If one only forgets to look at the dates.)
I am frequently asked: "What are your impressions of England?" Sir A. Conan Doyle said, when in Salt Lake City, that "a man should travel before he writes a book." He might well have added "and live among a people before attempting to give impressions."
Had this letter been written within a month after arriving, there might have been later an apology or explanation due. Even now I feel great need of caution in expressing myself, lest more time and a clearer understanding may change my point of view.
Take the weather as an illustration. During the first few months it rained almost every day and one was never safe to venture forth, without an umbrella, no matter how bright the morning's outlook. We were told that this condition had prevailed for a year or more so we concluded there could be no really fine weather in Liverpool. The months of May, June, and July, however, were simply glorious, with not more than half a dozen uncomfortably hot days and almost no stormy ones.
It was especially interesting to me to note the attitude of people during the gloomy periods. One seldom heard a complaint or even a remark about it. The people simply dress for the
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 7
occasion—stout shoes (or boots as they call them), rain coats and umbrellas; and thus equipped they sally forth to work, or to places of amusement, or to church, as a matter of course. We have had as large an attendance at meetings, when members came through a downpour, as when the weather was fair. But the sunny days were the subject of universal comment. On the street cars or in the shops or anywhere one listened to the refrain, "Isn't it lovely today?" I admire this philosophical attitude very much. It is apparent in many phases of life, especially along the line of one's employment. If such be of an unpleasant character, well, it must be done, so why complain?—rather be thankful that one has work in a land where unemployment is a vital problem. (Three millions of men were reported idle last winter.) But when a holiday comes! From the Premier down, the English people are out to enjoy it.
The expression is often quoted that "an Englishman's home is his castle," but one must have really seen the castles with their
[IMAGE: A TYPICAL DEVON LANE]
walls and fortifications before one can understand the significance of the high brick walls that surround so many English homes. At first they seem rather forbidding, especially to a person who is accustomed to seeing no partitions save lawns or flowers or hedges, but he later comes to feel that these enclosures are built thus, not because the owner desires to exclude his friends, but because he loves the privacy and retirement thus afforded.
One is apt at first to criticize also the crooked streets, the names of which change without warning and prove so baffling
[IMAGE: TORQUAY, GIVING A GLIMPSE OF THE BAY, SOUTHERN ENGLAND]
to the uninitiated. But when the spring comes and the hawthorn blooms, when the leafy boughs overhead form a delicate green tracery against the blue of heaven, these crooked ways become "The Green Lanes of England," luring one on and on with a keen curiosity to see what added charm will be unfolded just beyond the bend.
The quiet beauty of the landscape as one travels in the open country, the low velvety-green, rolling hills, the
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 9
magnificent old beech and elm and oak trees with their moss and lichen-covered trunks are a constant source of inspiration. The road between Liverpool and Stratford-on-Avon in the time of the Rhododendron defies description. These lovely flowers that we see in florists' windows at home, grow here as tall as lilac trees and transform the parks into masses of purple glory. We were very glad the trips to our conferences took us along such pleasant roads.
We admire intensely all this natural beauty, also the wonderful art treasures found in the galleries and museums and the costly monuments found everywhere, but we are led to wonder if these are in any sense a compensation for the contrasting pictures one is forced to look upon. We have read and heard much of the "slum districts" and "the children of the slums," but in my visits to the large cities of America it has never come to my experience to visit these districts; therefore, I have for comparison only the cities of the Latter-day Saints, and so I say in all truth that my imagination had failed to grasp the meaning of the terms. I have seen more evidences of real poverty and destitution—more crippled children (and grown up people, too), during the past year than in all my life before. It makes one long for the power to change or lift the burden from these lives.
Of course, among our members Relief Societies are a source of great encouragement and uplift. The courage shown and effort put forth by our sisters here under circumstances seldom found at home are indeed wonderful. Since arriving it has been my privilege to visit all the fifteen conferences of the British mission, which, of course, include those in England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales. But in addition to this it has been my opportunity to visit the Branch Relief Societies in Birkenhead, Halifax, Hucknall, Derby, Glasgow, Belfast, Liverpool, London and Lowestoft, and also a district conference in Manchester to which came the officers of all the branches in that conference save one. These latter visits have really given me a much clearer idea as to the manner in which our Societies do their work than I gained from the reports given at the conferences. The conditions—social, educational, and spiritual—vary so in the different branches and conferences that one is safe only in making one generalization—i. e., that in the main the sisters are all putting forth heroic efforts to meet the problems that face them, and whether the societies have a membership of three, as in our smallest branch, or thirty, as in some of the large branches, we find a spirit of earnest desire to carry the work on in the best manner possible and also a sincere appreciation for the gospel and the blessings that have come through its teachings.


Our Trip on the Continent
Again we are in Liverpool after a seven weeks visit to the conferences on the Continent, and what an illuminating experience it has been! One may read of a country, study its geography and topography, listen to lectures, both illustrated and otherwise, concerning it, and even see its scenery and people depicted at the "movies," yet find one's self confronted daily by delightful surprises when the actual experience of a personal visit is afforded.
From our missionaries and from friends who had traveled, as well as from the official reports that are sent in at stated intervals, we had learned of the great revival of interest in the gospel that is being shown on the Continent, but words and figures do not half tell the story. One must feel the spirit of it all before he understands.
But how can one hope to convey in a single article any idea of even all the really important events of a two months' trip when each day was crowded with things worth more than passing notice?
The outstanding occasion was, of course, the great conference at Chemnitz at which the Swiss-German mission was divided, but there were other conferences held in Breslau, Hamburg, Stuttgart, Zurich and Amsterdam, as well as a Relief Society convention in Berlin, and special meetings in Dresden, Hannover, Brounswig, Uelsen, Nurnberg, Munich, Basel, Interlaken, Frankfurt and Cologne. The attendance at the conferences ranged from four hundred to more than fourteen hundred while that in the branches was between seventy and three hundred. In each place visited we were overwhelmed by the warmth of welcome and the generous hospitality we received. How can we ever express our appreciation to the elders who were at the trains to bid us welcome, to carry our suit cases, to show us places of interest when we were not engaged in holding meetings, to take us to the trains and wave adieus until we were out of sight? Could we follow the dictates of our hearts, there would be personal letters written to hundreds of mothers to congratulate them on the possession of such manly sons—sons who are giving earnest, devoted service without measure and whose sincere testimony oftimes filled our eyes with tears of joy. May we hope that each mother will take this as a personal tribute to her son.
How can we ever repay the many dear sisters at whose tables we enjoyed such delicious meals, and who gave a warmth of welcome that permeated the very atmosphere? How can we convey our loving gratitude to the sweet little maidens who came to us in almost every conference with such
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 11
quaint and charming curtsies, and filled our arms with fragrant blossoms or other gifts, and welcomed us in language that at least our hearts found no difficulty in comprehending? How thankful we are that the language of flowers and music and loving welcome need no interpreters, since these were given to us without stint in so many tongues.
In response to an urgent wire from President Tadje, President Talmage, our young son John and I, left Liverpool on August 13 and went direct to Breslau instead of going by way of Basel as had been planned. The journey across Holland and Germany was full of interest. The far-famed wind-mills, the neat substantial homes, with their bright red roofs, the well kept gardens—always a mixture of vegetables and brilliant colored flowers—the lovely groves and prosperous fields, were seen in quick succession from the time we left Rotterdam in early morning until we reached Berlin, some ten hours later. There were no uncultivated stretches—no barren wastes—only scenes of quiet, pleasant beauty; with but one thing to mar. Women were out in great numbers doing the work of men; raking or pitching hay, driving teams, picking potatoes and even working on the stacks, and threshing grain. It seemed to us that women who must bear and rear families would find this added burden rather heavy. Even in the large cities on the Continent the sight of women carrying large baskets of produce, vegetables, laundry or wood upon their backs is all too common. But this is said in passing.
We rested over night in Berlin, then were taken by President Browning of Ogden for a few hours sight-seeing before proceeding to Breslau. Of course we walked "Unter den Linden," went through the Schloss, the Palace of the former kaiser, in which structure also are seen the rooms occupied by Frederick the Great, just as he used them. We had many thoughts as we pictured the pomp and ceremony and brilliancy of the State functions held within those walls and realized how great the change!
Breslau is well nigh on the borderland of Poland. Before the war it was part of the Dresden conference, and this happened to be the first time in its history that a President of the European missions had been present since the Breslau conference was organized. Also it was my first experience attending a conference in a foreign country. President Victor Taylor of Provo was in charge and excellent preparations had been made to make it the success it proved to be. We were here joined by President Tadje and at the opening session were amazed to find an audience of seven hundred people. Three sessions were held on Sunday, as was the case at all the conferences, and in each place the program for the Sunday School was planned with as much care and carried out as successfully as we find in our most up-to-date stakes at home. We were very thankful for even the meager knowledge of the language learned


in the classes of dear Brother Maeser at the Brigham Young Academy, which enabled one at least to follow the thread of the theme. On Monday evening we had our first opportunity of attending Relief Society meeting. There are three branches in Breslau and we found them to be taking the lessons as prescribed. Along the line of their material efforts, the amount and excellence also amazed us greatly.
We had the pleasure of visiting two of the Relief Societies in Breslau, one a work and business meeting, the other when a lesson was in progress, and found efficient hand work being done in the one, and in the other a very able presentation and intelligent discussion of the lesson, which was participated in by nearly every sister present. The same interest and evidence of efficiency were manifest in the societies in Dresden, Berlin, Basel, and in fact wherever we had the opportunity of visiting. On the last evening of our stay in Breslau the Relief Society sisters of all three branches tendered a reception to the visitors which was attended by fully two hundred and fifty people. Hundreds of articles were on display that had been made during the year to present to the members of the Branch at Christmas time. The sisters certainly are to be highly commended for their unselfish devotion both in the cause of Relief Society work and in their attitude toward the elders. They try to show their appreciation for the blessings that have come to them through the gospel by looking after the needs of these young men, inviting them to meals, mending their clothing, etc., and as far as possible taking the place of the mothers who are so far away. As a result of thus carrying out the admonition of the Master, much joy is experienced among our members.
From Breslau we went to Dresden and spent a few days at the comfortable Mission home with President Tadje and family who were just getting settled. They had moved up from Basel less than two weeks before. President and Sister Hugh J. Cannon were guests at the home, also Brother Jean Wunderlich, who acted as official interpreter for us throughout the trip and to whom our grateful thanks are due. While Presidents Talmage, Tadje and Cannon were working out the details for the division of the mission, we had an opportunity to visit a few places of historic interest. The Dresden Art Gallery is reputed to be one of the best three in the world. Scores of the original paintings by the old masters are found here but the one around which the greatest interest centers is Raphael's famous Sistine Madonna. It hung in a room all by itself and it veritably baffles description.
Another experience of unusual interest was the baptismal service held on the banks of the river Elbe, near the place where
[IMAGE: THE SISTINE MADONNA]
Brother Karl G. Maeser was baptized. About a hundred members gathered in the evening and eight others were added to our number through complying with the ordinance of baptism. The scene was deeply impressive. The lights from the opposite shore, from the bridge, and from a beautifully illuminated boat that glided silently along, were mirrored in the river. These with the music of our hymns and the spirit that prevailed the occasion combined to make an impression that is enshrined among my choicest heart memories.
We went to visit Meissen, the birthplace of Utah's Great Educator, and through the factory at that place where the famous Dresden China is wrought, but an account of this deserves a special article so we shall hasten on to Chemnitz.
[IMAGE: CHILDHOOD HOME OF KARL G. MAESER]
On Sunday, August 23, the great mission was divided. Brother DeMar Anderson was in charge of the arrangements for the conference. A vast audience of 1400 people assembled in the Hohenzollern Hall and more than fifty elders were in attendance, some having come from distant conferences. President and Sister Charles S. Hyde of the Netherlands mission had joined us there and thus were four mission presidents with their wives convened for the first time at any conference of our Church in Europe. The mission was divided with a line running north and south. The eastern section being designated as the German-Austrian mission while the western portion retained the former name, Swiss-German mission. President Fred Tadje, who has so ably presided over the combined field for more than two years was made President of the German-Austrian mission and Sister Eliza Tadje
LETTER TO GENERAL BOARD 15
sustained as the President of the Relief Societies. As head of the Swiss-German mission, President Hugh J. Cannon was sustained, and Sister Sarah Richards Cannon given charge of Relief Society work. President Cannon came to the field rich in experience also, he having served as President of the German mission when it was alone, also he presided for several years over the Swiss-German mission after the two were combined.
The occasion was full of interest from the beginning. In addition to the conference meetings proper, meetings were held which were devoted specifically to the special needs of Mutual Improvement work, to that of the Sunday School and of the Relief Society, and a wonderful manifestation of spiritual uplift was experienced. It was indeed an epoch-making event in the history of Germany.
An account of the special Relief Society meeting held in Dresden, where reports were given by the presidents of these Societies as to conditions in the different missions, and where plans were discussed for the year's work, will be sent to the department of "Notes from the Field" as will also a few other items that belong specifically to that department.
From Dresden we went to attend the Hamburg conference stopping enroute to hold meetings at Hannover, Brounswig and Uelsen. We were accompanied to the two last named places by President Llewellyn McKay of the Hannover conference and we were overwhelmed by the warmth of welcome extended and were delightfully surprised to see the wonderful progress the Church is making in these small districts. Uelsen, is unique in the fact that our fifty members there have been brought into the Church through the efforts of friends. No elder has ever labored in that branch. One young man became converted elsewhere, went back and gave his message to his friends and they to their friends. We were told by the president that the branch was like one united family and all working earnestly to spread the gospel message. They had induced thirty-nine non-members to come to the meeting, although the adult membership of the Church there numbers but thirty. Of these, sixteen formed a splendid choir.
The conference at Hamburg, on August 30, was quite on a par with any we attended. Brother Wells C. Bowen was the able conference president. A distinguishing feature was the rendition by the combined choirs of "The Vision" and "The Martyrs" in such a manner as would have brought joy to their composer—Brother Evan Stephens. A fine hot dinner was brought in and served by the sisters of the Relief Society to more than fifty elders and visitors, during a recess taken in the eight-hour missionary meeting held on Monday. It was prepared away from the hall and was no small undertaking. It was the only time on our trip that we had the pleasure of sitting at the table with all


the elders of the conference, and their presence as well as the dinner was indeed greatly appreciated.
We bade adieu to many of these large beautiful cities with just a tinge of regret because our limited time did not permit us to visit their places of interest, but while our missionary work was always of first importance we did appreciate the occasions of sight-seeing that sometimes came between appointments.
President and Sister Cannon and Brother Wunderlich went on from Hamburg to their home in Basel. We left Hamburg for Berlin and attended meetings of the Improvement Association in three of the six branches, on Tuesday, also Wednesday and Thursday nights. These were in a flourishing condition, the details will, however, be sent to our Mutual magazine.
On Sunday Sept. 6, the Relief Society convention was held. It was on this occasion that I felt the greatest handicap through the difference in our languages. I longed for an understanding of the reports that were made so that I might give constructive criticism and intelligent help, but President and Sister Tadje are in close touch with all phases of the work and were well prepared to convey all necessary instructions at the officers meetings. A fine spirit prevailed throughout all the gatherings, however, and the music was of an exceptionally high order. President Browning and all his elders had put forth very great efforts to bring the people together, this being a special occasion and not the regular Berlin conference which was scheduled for a date three weeks later. We were pleasantly surprised at the afternoon session to find Professor and Mrs. Beal present. They were enroute from Heidelberg to Scandinavia.
A visit to the magnificent Palace at Potsdam with its wealth of art-treasures and its wonderful gardens; a trip to Charlottenberg, with a never-to-be-forgotten impression of the last resting place of Germany's adored Queen Louise; a night at the Berlin Opera House, where a marvelous rendition of Wagner's "Tannhauser" stirred my soul to its depths, were among the most appreciated events in Berlin aside from those connected with our work.
From Berlin we accompanied President and Sister Tadje back to Dresden and spent the night. This concluded our visit to the German-Austrian mission and we left on August 8, to join President Cannon in Nurnberg and begin our work among the people over whom he presides, and concerning which another article must tell. We left the one with feelings of deep admiration for the splendid condition of the work as we found it, of sincere appreciation for all the favors shown and warm friendships found, and left our blessings with all our members there and especially those who had contributed so much to the pleasure of our visit.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Magazine 
Editor - - - - - CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, UtahVol. XIII JANUARY, 1926 No. 1
EDITORIAL