On the Watch Tower
======================================================================

WATCH TOWER James H. Anderson. The French chamber of deputies ratified the peace treaty with Germany on October 2. Smaller vegetable crops are reported in Utah for 1919 than for several preceding years. Two Mexicans were lynched at Pueblo, Colo., in September. They had murdered a policeman. Jugo-Slav regular troops fired on an Italian vessel on October 1st, and further trouble may result. Sugar shortage in the United States is predicted for 1920, with prices as high as 25 cents per pound. In Shelley, Idaho, on Sept. 25, forty business houses were destroyed by fire, with a loss of $100,000. Chihuahua, Mexico, was the scene of disastrous floods in September, one town being wholly swept away. Senator Johnson, of California, was billed to speak in Salt Lake City in October, on the league of nations. Influenza cases to the number of 300 were reported in the United States during the week ending Sept. 28. Race riots occurred in seven States of the Union in September, with loss of life and property in each instance. Three lynchings of negroes within 12 hours was the record of Montgomery, Ala., the last week in September. Rumania refused, in September, to sign the peace treaty with Austria — a portent of further trouble in the Balkans. 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In Ireland, in September, British troops suppressed Sinn Fein gatherings and made many arrests for sedition. A FOSSIL WHALE 40 feet long, bigger than Jonah's carrier-fish, was unearthed at Newport, Oregon, in September. Turkey is reported as aiming at a religious war, to preserve its national integrity against division by the entente allies. In Russia, the All-Russia government of Admiral Kolchak was overthrown by the Bolsheviki, the last week in September. In Great Britain, on Sept. 27, nearly 600,000 railway men went on strike, paralyzing the country's transportation system. Boston, Mass., was the scene of terrible outrages, particularly on women, during the policemen's strike there in September. Germany's national legislature adopted its budget by unanimous vote in September, this being one event indicating a united Germany. President Wilson had to cancel engagements on his return tour of the United States, owing to nervous breakdown on September 27. Palestine Christians became more pronounced than ever in September, in opposition to the Zionist movement for Jewish migration thither. Chas. C. Richards, of Utah, was appointed in September, to be an assistant to the attorney general of the United States in Washington. Telephoning by use of sun rays instead of a wire, is an invention announced from Great Britain in September; it developed during the war. Italy's elections are set for Nov. 16, with some prospect of arousing a national revolution for a change in the form of government there. Six hours a day, and five days a week, was the demand made by the United Mine Workers' convention at Cleveland, Ohio, on Sept. 11. Germany was again subjected to an economic blockade on ON THE WATCH TOWER. 667 September 30, to compel the withdrawal of German troops from the Baltic countries. Labor union strikes were reported from every State in the Union in September. In contemplation, Book of Mormon, Ether 8:18-26, is interesting. France faces another war in the near future, is the prediction of Gen. Foch. This time Italy is expected to be one of the nations on the other side. The Texas coast at Galveston and vicinity was visited by a hurricane and sea-flood on September 21, with a loss of 620 lives and great destruction of property. Mexican Indian Laborers to the number of many thousand moved northward into the United States during August and September, and the movement still goes on. The Utah Legislature was convened in special session on Sept. 29, primarily to ratify the equal suffrage amendment to the national Constitution, which was done. Mauna Loa, the great volcano on the island of Hilo, Hawaii, burst forth in the last week in September, and a vast stream of lava flowed 30 miles to the ocean in 12 hours. The Farmers' international congress at Kansas City, on Sept. 26, protested against the "voluntary laziness" exhibited in demands of labor unions for a six-hour-day. The Utah Federation of Labor, on Sept. 11, adopted a resolution endorsing the soviet government in Russia, and forced the legislature to kill the anti-picketing bill. In Arkansas, on October 2, sixteen persons were killed in race riots in the town of Elaine, the governor of the State being among those fired on by the mob, but not hurt. King Albert, Queen Elizabeth, and Crown Prince Leopold, of Belgium, arrived in New York on October 2, for a brief tour in the United States. They were in Salt Lake October 9. Several negro assaults on white women in September put fuel on the race-riot fires smoldering in the United States. The Bolshevists are working with the negroes according to the Boston Transcript. 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. President Wilson spoke on the league of nations treaty in the large tabernacle, Salt Lake City, on September 23, the vast auditorium being insufficient to accommodate all who assembled to hear him. The peace treaty with Germany was reported to the United States Senate on Sept. 10, with 45 proposed amendments and four reservations. The outlook at the end of September was that the treaty would be adopted without the amendments, but with the reservations. Steel-workers to the number of about 300,000 struck on Sept. 22, the chief issue being the "closed shop." Many people think the outcome of the strike will determine whether or not the labor unions will dominate all industrial plants in the United States, to the exclusion of all other classes of labor. Mobs at Omaha, Nebraska, in the latter part of September, lynched a negro, and hanged Mayor E. P. Smith, who was rescued in a critical condition as a result of his injuries. The mayor was urging the mob to abide by the law when he was set upon. The county courthouse and jail also were burned. Capt. Gabrielle D'Annunzio, Italy's aviator-poet, seized Fiume, on the Dalmatian coast of the Adriatic sea, in September, in the name of Italy, defying the allied council at Paris. His force of 2,000 men was rapidly augmented to 200,000. On October 1, the Italian chamber of deputies declared in favor of Italy holding Fiume. The October Conference of the Church was marked by an expression of unity on the part of the General Authorities of the Church in their support of President Heber J. Grant and the General Authorities and a deeply sympathetic attitude towards the League of Nations. A vital chord struck was President Grant's uncompromising attitude towards societies, clubs, or unions which curtail by force or intimidation the rights and liberties of others. At Seattle, Washington, when President Wilson was there, "what was vital and disturbing to the eastern observer was the atmosphere of unrest, of mob psychology and mob inclination, which made the whole presidential party nervous throughout the 36 hours of their stay in Seattle," is the way newspaper correspondents describe the scene. No doubt the President's life was in danger for a time, not due to peace treaty discussion, but to the radical socialism and I. W. W.-ism rampant there. EDITORIAL  Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor........ Susa Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. NOVEMBER, 1919. THE