Kitchen Money On Friday afternoon, Bob's family came from Denver, followed by the Tom Claytons and their children. Saturday morning brought Mark and Anne and their boys from Portland. How would you like to have us for always?" young Mark asked Ellie, as he reached for a third sugar-cookie. "She would take a green willow to you, as she used to to us," his father laughed. "Remember the time, Matt, when you and I." He turned to his brothers, and the four of them, with Leslie, who had been there since early morning, began reliving the bygone days when they were all home together. Ellie loved hearing them, and Jase glowed with pride. It was good having them all together again, and their wonderful children, filling the house with warmth and laughter. By noon, the tables were all.

Set up in the orchard, and they sat down to a home-cooked banquet, with platters of fried chicken, fresh garden vegetables, bread, hot from the oven, and freezers of homemade ice cream. "What a good time we all have together," Tom, who was oldest, looked over the long tables, and raised his glass of grape juice. "Let's drink a toast to Mother and Dad," he suggested, "the best parents in the world." "Speech, Grandpa, speech," Julie Anne cried, and the rest joined in. Jase rose slowly, looking over the group around him with misty eyes. "You don't know how good it is to have you all here," he said, 591 with a kind of catch in his voice. "It means more to Mama and me than you can know, and we think you're the best children and grandchildren in the whole world." "Hey, Grandpa, can we boys stay?" Sammy wanted to know. 592 "That's fine with us," Jase told him, "if you don't mind getting in on the remodeling, cause your Grandma and I are going to have the old kitchen modernized this very week." "We sure had lots of good times in that old kitchen," Bob announced, "remember the candy pulls on winter nights." Leslie laughed. "And I remember you getting taffy from your heels to your head." "Remember the time I opened Dad's prize root beer, and it fizzed up and went all over the ceiling?" Mark exclaimed. "Yah, Mom made us help wallpaper the ceiling!" "Remember those cheese sandwiches you used to make for picnics, Leslie?" "Mom's kitchen will always hold some of my dearest memories when I think of the happy times we've had around that old table together." "Remember the winter mornings coming down to corn-meal mush bubbling in the kettle, and homemade sausage." And so they remembered—and it was a good day—a perfect day. Then the Sabbath came and they all went to church, and Jase and Ellie were proud to have them there. But too soon, the weekend was over and they had to get back to their homes and work. Matt and his family were staying until Tuesday morning, and then they would go on to California. Mark's three boys would stay for a week. After a supper of sandwiches and milk, Jase and Matt and the boys went out to the porch while Carole took the little girls up to bed and Ellie and Mrs. Bryson cleared up the dishes. "It's been just wonderful here with you," Mrs. Bryson told Ellie. "I think I've been a little jealous of you having all of your family here together. And your husband is such a fine man. I visited with him for awhile the other night. He reminds me of my Cal, especially when he told me about the trip he wanted to take." There was a wistful note in her voice. "Cal was like that, too. I've missed him so much, and looking back I wish we had done more things together. 'He had always wanted to spend a summer in the Canadian Rockies—fishing and that sort of thing. I'm not much of an outdoor girl, so it didn't sound very exciting to me, but I agreed to go the next summer. He wasn't here then." For a moment she couldn't speak, then, composure regained, she went on. "Mrs. Clayton, why don't you take the Hawaiian trip? You can always have the kitchen remodeled, you know." Long after she went to bed, Ellie lay awake pondering over the things Mrs. Bryson had said. I guess we get our values mixed up sometimes, she thought, and Kitchen Money maybe we attach too much importance to some things. Maybe having the kitchen done over isn't the most important thing this year, either. Could it be that Mrs. Bryson is right? On Tuesday evening, when the supper dishes were done, and the boys had gone down to the creek to look for minnows, Ellie joined Jase on the porch to watch the night shadows that were stealing across the sky. On the table beside his chair were the travel folders and the well-thumbed maps. "Jase," she said quite suddenly, "shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" Jase looked up, startled, incredulous. "Ellie—what did you say?" "I said, shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" "But Ellie, you know we can't go. We're going to have that kitchen done at long last." "The kitchen," said Ellie, feeling light-hearted as a girl, "can wait another year." "Ellie!" His eyes glowed like stars in the darkness. "Ellie, look." He opened the maps. "Let me show you." Ellie smiled knowingly, and moved her chair over beside him.

La Very true; Need it too.