HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Ceestia J. Taylor
Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

Sane To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time of joyous participation, happy association, and spiritual renewal.

All of us like to do over and over again the things we enjoy, and when the practice persists long enough, and its results are rewarding enough it becomes a tradition which we look upon as an integral part of our lives. The celebration of Christmas itself is steeped in tradition, and people in every land have established their own customs and followed them through the years. Many of these customs have been interchangeable among people of different nationalities until now it is almost impossible to determine their origins. All of us claim them—and wisely so—for they bring us, as nations and peoples, closer together.

That is really what traditions do—bring us closer together in bonds of love and unity. For this reason, as well as for others, the establishing of traditional practices in our homes and families, as well as in our nations should be encouraged. This discussion, as our objective indicates, will encourage us to establish our own family traditions which will strengthen the bonds of love 626 and unity existing there and renew in our hearts the true spirit of Christmas.

Almost as soon as Christmas is over, children as well as grownups, begin to look forward to the next one, if a happy spirit has prevailed.

It was amusing to hear one youngster say on the day after Christmas, "It's only 365 days until next Christmas!" and the joy of anticipation could actually be seen shining in his eyes. What a pity if Christmas is a relief to be over and if our only desire is to forget it for another year. Christmas should be in our hearts the whole year 'round, and this should not be a mere platitude but a truth of real significance to each one of us. One small child said to his mother, "Christmas makes me love everybody and I don't want one single change from the way we do it, ever!" What can we do in anticipation of Christmas? 

I. We can maintain a positive attitude toward Christmas.
A. We can look forward to it as the happiest time of the year.
B. We can plan and prepare for it wisely.

(Homemaking Discussion, , .)

II. We can establish pre-Christmas traditions.
A. In some localities with special permission we can gather our own greens and Christmas tree.
(Pine cones, nuts, pods, and seeds can be gathered for wreaths and other decorations, summer or winter.)
B. Children as well as adults can make their own Christmas cards and tags.
C. Special baking projects can be shared by grown-ups and children.
1. A gingerbread house is a favorite project and a happy tradition.
2. Making Christmas cookies with children assisting is fun.
(Using animal and other varieties of cookie cutters)
3. A candy-making day is fun for young and old.
(Pulling candy, wrapping caramels, boxing, etc.)
4. Breads and goodies can be taken to sick and needy—a worthwhile tradition.
D. Group caroling of family alone or with neighbors and friends can be a favorite tradition:
1. In the home.
2. Around the neighborhood.
3. To the sick and homebound.
E. Pre-Christmas open house for family and friends can be simple and inviting.
F. Decorating the house and tree can be shared by the family.
(A traditional procedure is usually established within each family.)

What are some basic procedures upon which we can establish our Christmas traditions?

I. Making Christmas sacrament meeting attendance together a special family part of the celebration of the season.
II. Annual reading of the Nativity from the Bible.
(Some like to read Dickens' "Christmas Carol," or other literature from one's own country.)
III. Singing of traditional carols and Christmas songs.
IV. Serving of traditional Christmas meals.

A. Christmas family dinner:
1. On Christmas Eve. (This relieves Mother of cooking on Christmas Day and is traditional in many families.)
2. On Christmas Day. (It is traditional with some for visiting grown-up families to share in preparation and expense.)

B. Christmas Brunch.
(When dinner is on Christmas Eve, a brunch is a happy solution on Christmas morning. The afternoon is then free for visiting.)

V. Opening and presenting of gifts.
(Orderly rotation in opening gifts prolongs the pleasure and reduces the confusion.)
VI. Visiting with family, neighbors, and friends.
VII. Enjoying games and fireside conversation.

Christmas traditions can be beautiful and rewarding. Naturally, each family will be influenced by its own heritage, the customs of its own country, the traditional celebration of the season of its own people, and its own personalities in establishing its traditional procedures, and it is each family's opportunity and privilege to make the kind of Christmas which will be the happiest and most satisfying to its own members.