Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Lesson 2 — "The Power of Discipline"
Dr. Robert K. Thomas
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 
The World Around Us, Section Two
By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

"A stern discipline pervades all nature,
which is a little cruel that it may be very kind."
— Edmund Spenser

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction.
See note at end of this lesson for art reference.

A generation ago the connotations surrounding the word discipline were almost wholly positive. No one expected discipline to be achieved—or enforced—easily, but few questioned its necessity. Now the confused children of a much more permissive age are not so unanimous in their approval. To many, indulgence no longer needs to be defended or even explained. Readiness to sample experience, almost any experience, is supplanting willingness to discriminate between experiences which promise development and those which threaten degeneration. To be undisciplined is to throw off all external restraint. Yet external restraints are rarely discarded if internal guides remain strong and meaningful.

As any successful teacher can testify, rigidly enforced order in the classroom may teach a child to hate school more effectively than it teaches him arithmetic. And any soldier who has felt the esprit de corps that men united in a cause can generate knows that he can willingly subject himself to the most rigorous control. That which gives discipline significance is commitment, and commitment is always internal.

Until we can control our thoughts and actions because of a basic moral imperative, a deeply felt conviction that some values are more important than others, we will never experience the positive meaning of discipline.

Few ideas are stressed more often in the sermons and writings of President David O. McKay than the necessity for self-control, and it is this aspect of discipline that our lesson this month will emphasize.

In the selections which make up this section there are manifestations of control which are both external and internal, but the element of moral choice is common to them all.

"The Balloon of the Mind"

In "The Balloon of the Mind," by William Butler Yeats (not printed here because of copyright restrictions), the author obviously believes that he must discipline his thinking. Although we may describe our situation in less graphic terms, many of us share his problem. For example, if you have difficulty in giving a speaker an attentive hearing, if you find your mind wandering when you are trying to study, or if you find yourself restless at a concert, at least one of your problems is mental discipline.

It is easy to indulge in fantasies that erect castles in the air. The real difficulty for most of us, as Henry David Thoreau long ago pointed out, is to put foundations under such castles. This poem does not attempt to list specific problems or to give more than a general solution. It is simply a plea to marshal one's efforts.

Yeats' imagery is arresting without being too technical. Those who have seen a balloon being recaptured will have no difficulty in understanding the appropriateness of the symbols used here. The soaring, unfettered balloon is aptly descriptive of a human mind, and the wind is equally symbolic of external forces. One may let his mind be driven by forces from without, but a mind that cannot be controlled when it needs to be becomes, at best, a wayward instrument.

Lesson Department Discussion Question

What might this poem have to say to women who are especially conscious of fashion?

Ralph Waldo Emerson's famous discussion of discipline illustrates its various forms in the nature which surrounds us. In the consistency and rigor with which nature enforces its discipline, Emerson hopes to suggest provocative examples for man.

The following epigrammatic sentences from the discussion are worthy:

Of our attention: Nature is a discipline of the understanding in intellectual truths—to instruct us that "good thoughts are no better than good dreams, unless they be executed!"

Debt, grinding debt, whose iron face the widow, the orphan, the sons of genius fear and hate;—debt which consumes so much time, which so cripples and disheartens a great spirit with cares that seem so base, is a preceptor whose lessons cannot be foregone, and is needed most by those who suffer from it most.

Therefore is Space, and therefore Time, that man may know that things are not huddled and lumped, but sundered and individual. A bell and a plough have each their use, and neither can do the office of the other. Water is good to drink, coal to burn, wool to wear; but wool cannot be drunk, nor water spun, nor coal eaten...

She pardons no mistakes. Her yea: is yea, and her nay, nay....

Nature's dice are always loaded.....

Nature is thoroughly mediate. It is made to serve...

It offers all its kingdoms to man as the raw material which he may mould into what is useful...

Nature is ever the ally of Religion: lends all her pomp and riches to the religious sentiment.

Prophet and priest, David, Jesus, Isaiah, have drawn deeply from this source...

Nothing in nature is exhausted in its first use. When a thing has served an end to the uttermost, it is wholly new for an ulterior service.

In God every end is converted into a new means.

In his final paragraph, Emerson presents one of his most interesting ideas. He insists that "All things are moral." All choices, finally, are either right or wrong. We can't escape responsibility for our acts by insisting certain things don't really matter. The moral consequences of some choices may be hard to see, but no choice can be neutral.

If we are sensitive to our surroundings, says Emerson, we can see moral distinctions everywhere, and in recognizing such distinctions we are helped in bringing our own ethical life under control. Discussion Question Who will have the hardest time conceding that all decisions are moral ones? Why?

"ABRAHAM DAVENPORT" by John Greenleaf Whittier

"Twas on a May-day of the far old year
Seventeen hundred eighty, that there fell
Over the bloom and sweet life of the Spring,
Over the fresh earth and the heaven of noon,
A horror of great darkness, like the night
In day of which the Norland sagas tell,
The Twilight of the Gods.

The lowhung sky was black with ominous clouds,
Save where its rim was fringed with a dull glow,
Like that which climbs the crater's sides from the red hell below.
Birds ceased to sing, and all the barnyard fowls
Roosted; the cattle at the pasture bars
Lowered, and looked homeward; bats on leathern wings
Fitted abroad; the sounds of labor died;
Men prayed, and women wept; all ears grew sharp
To hear the doom-blast of the trumpet shatter
The black sky, that the dreadful face of Christ
Might look from the rent clouds, not as he looked
A loving guest at Bethany, but stern
As Justice and inexorable Law.

Meanwhile in the old State House, dim as ghosts
Sat the lawgivers of Connecticut,
Trembling beneath their legislative robes.
"It is the Lord's Great Day! Let us adjourn," 
Some said; and then, as if with one accord,
All eyes were turned to Abraham Davenport. 

He rose, slow cleaving with his steady voice
The intolerable hush. "This well may be
The Day of Judgment which the world awaits;
But be it so or not, I only know
My present. Duty, and my Lord's command
To occupy till He come.
So at the post where He hath sent me in His providence,
I choose, for one, to meet Him face to face,
No faithless servant frightened from my task,
But ready when the Lord of the harvest calls;
And therefore, with all reverence, I would say,
Let God do his work, we will see to ours.
Bring in the candles." And they brought them in.

Then by the flaring lights the Speaker read,
Albeit with husky voice and shaking hands,
An act to amend, an act to regulate
The shad and alewives fisheries. 

Whereupon wisely and well spake Abraham Davenport,
Straight to the questions, with no figures of speech
Save the ten Arab signs, yet not without
The shrewd dry humor natural to the man:
His awe-struck colleagues listening all the while,
Between the pauses of his argument,
To hear the thunder of the wrath of God
Break from the hollow trumpet of the cloud.

And there he stands in memory to this day,
Errect, self-poised, a rugged face, half seen
Against the background of unnatural dark,
A witness to the ages as they pass,
That simple duty hath no place for fear.

The entire poem simply introduces the last line:
"That simple duty hath no place for fear."
Such a poem is a particularly apt vehicle for an illustration of duty.
For duty is rarely glamorous or exciting, and this poem makes no pretense
to unusual poetic devices or spectacular imagery. The lines follow each other in precise,
even solemn, regularity. Yet the result is as satisfying as it is expected.
There is order and meaning to Abraham Davenport's world.
Apparently he didn't need to make any sudden decisions when faced with an emergency.
His daily preparation was adequate. He was used to doing what he thought was right,
and that made him calm whether danger was real or imagined.
Such serenity is not so much given as earned, and its cost is personal discipline.

Whittier's prose description of the circumstance to which he gives poetic extension in "Abraham Davenport" is worth recounting:
The famous Dark Day of New England, May 19, 1780, was a physical puzzle for many years to our ancestors but its occurrence brought something more than philosophical speculation into the minds of those who passed through it.
The incident of Colonel Abraham Davenport's sturdy protest is a matter of history.

Lesson Department

Sir Henry Wotton's "The Character of a Happy Life" (not printed here) is similarly concerned with man's ability to arrive at such control of himself that he is beyond most of the world's power. Discussion Question In the light of Whittier's and Wotton's poems would you feel justified in describing Abraham Davenport a happy man? Why or why not?

"The Death of Socrates" Phaedo by Plato

From few accounts in all literature present more graphically the results of a life spent in obedience to principle than the story of Socrates' death in the Phaedo. Apparently Plato was present at the trial of Socrates in 399 B.C. And heard his teacher condemned to death by poisoning on the charge of corrupting the youth of Athens.
In the account of Socrates' last hours, Plato, who was present at the execution, gives a description of the final scene.
Many of his friends were with Socrates on this day.
It is particularly noteworthy that most of Socrates' friends were able to remain in control of themselves before the actual drinking of the poison. But when they saw that Socrates had emptied the entire cup of hemlock, they all broke down.
The distinction between control which is merely temporary inhibition and control which stems from disciplined commitment could not have been made more effectively.

"COMMAND" by Albert Wetjen

The discipline of Captain Tap in Wetjen's short story "Command," which tells of the duties of a ship's captain on a voyage, apparently comes out of his deep and dearly bought awareness that to command others requires command of oneself first of all.
Note how rarely the Captain can make a self-indulgent decision. He is constantly and acutely sensitive to the responsibilities of his position.
If there is obvious self-respect in his actions, there is no hint of arrogance.
No truly disciplined man is arrogant or vain, for arrogance and vanity are insistence upon distinctions which have not been earned.
The Captain has earned and now maintains his rank by bringing all his talents and skills into harmony.

Discussion Question
Why don't we feel sorry for this overworked and apparently unappreciated Captain?
As with the Captain of our story, most good mothers spend more time answering demands than they do in giving orders.
The apparent chaos of school mornings, the constant care which a half-sick child expects, the affectionate sympathy a tired husband looks forward to, the routine of household tasks—such varied demands can only be met successfully by a woman whose personal discipline is so complete it hardly shows.
Perhaps only another mother can know the cost of such discipline—and only another mother can appreciate the rewards of such efforts.

"ORDEAL BY HANDCART" by Wallace Stegner The final selection in this issue is "Singing Mother's Arrangements": Abide with Me—Madsen $.25