[Vol7 | October 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions]

If GUIDE LESSONS 617 wastes from the kitchen are fed they should not be allowed to stand until sour or putrid, since such food can hardly be expected to produce a good quality of meat. The greatest cleanliness should be observed in slaughtering the animals. and preparing the meat for food. Housewives should write the State Dairy and Food Bureau for its regulations governing milk and other food production, and should insist that at least as high a standard be maintained in their homes. In the country home the kitchen range often proves useful in disposing of such kitchen wastes as cannot be fed to animals. Under no circumstances should the back yard be used as a dump for such wastes. If dish water and other slops are thrown out they should be thrown in a different place each time to prevent soaking and souring of the soil in any one place. As suggested in a former lesson, the samtary privy described in Farmers' Bulletin No. 463, or some form of chemical closet, should provide for human excreta. Dumps’ for all kinds of refuse should be at least one-quarter mile from the house. The problem of the woman in the small town may include doing her utmost to secure water supply and sewerage system for, as the population increases, wells become a less safe source of drinking water, and the increased wastes demand adequate disposal. To be an effective educator the housewife must inform herself as to sources of water supply, method of protecting such sources from contamination;  must know the most approved methods of purifying water. Dr. Winslow of the New York State Board of Health said, "We must keep our water shed fairly decent and then use a disinfecting system." She must inform herself on the best methods of disposing of garbage and sewage. She is then in a position to urge the installation of these improvements. The housewife in cities where such systems are already installed needs also the information outlined above in order to judge whether those systems of her city should be improved. The dweller in the city and in the small town each needs to get in touch with the state board of health and learn its sanitary regulations controlling farms, dairies, factories, etc., where food is produced for sale to the public, and those controlling transportation and storing of such foods: she needs also to learn the practices in other states and cities, as well as the best that science has to suggest. She is then in a position to demand that her public servants, the health and sanitary officers, enforce their regulations for the production, transportation and storing of such foods;  she needs also to learn the practices in other states and cities, as 
 well as the best that science has to suggest. She is then in a position to demand that her public servants, the health and sanitary officers, enforce their regulations for the production, transportation and storage of foods of uniformly high quality. She can use her privileges in the political primaries and at the polling places for securing legislation and appropriations which shall raise the standards of food control in her state, and secure able, efficient health and sanitary officers in sufficient numbers to educate producers up to the highest possible standards, and insist that these standards be maintained. It is possible for almost every housewife to visit the dairy which supplies her family with milk and satisfy herself as to the efficiency of the equipment for cleansing, filling, and capping bottles, the value of the pasteurization process employed, the health and cleanliness of the workers;  the sanitary conditions of buildings and equipment. She can inspect the markets which supply her city with other food materials, and can refuse to buy from markets which display berries, etc., on the sidewalks with no protection from dust, flies, and wandering dogs. Fruits and vegetables so displayed which are eaten without cooking are especially dangerous to health. The housewife has a right to demand that the floors, shelves, refrigerators, etc., of the market where she makes her purchases be kept clean, and that salespeople be in good health, and clean in person and habits. If the housewives of any community organize with the purpose of securing such conditions they can accomplish more than city ordinances, or boards of health can do. There are, in general, two types of waste which the city undertakes to dispose of;  (a) those from the house, collectively called garbage, and (b) sewage (refuse from water closets, bath tubs, etc.) If possible, garbage should be handled from back alleys, and in laying out new sections of the city, this should be provided for. Collection should be made every day, especially in hot weather, to help abate the fly nuisance. Individuals and community betterment leagues, should urge this necessity on the public health department. There are various methods of disposing of sewage, e.g., (a) discharging in streams and channels, lakes, bays, etc. ;  (b) discharging on land;  (c) reduction plants;  (d) septic tanks, etc. About all any citizen can do is to inform herself on the method employed by her city, and then assure herself that it is not contaminating any source of water supply, or growing crops, or endangering human life and health in any other way. GUIDE LESSONS 
 1. Attention some important problems in the broader housekeeping which the housewife is concerned. 2. Do you consider the country dweller as fortunate or otherwise in having these problems under control? Why? 3. Discuss proper protection of springs and wells used as sources of family water supply. 4. What can the country housewife do to secure the production of clean milk in her home? 5. Discuss pork production on the farm. 6. Outline methods for disposing of wastes in the country. 7. In what way are these problems complicated for the housewife of the small town? 8. How can she assist in securing necessary improvements? 9. What can any housewife do to assist in securing desirable legislation in sanitary matters? How secure able sanitary officers? 10. For what purposes would you visit the dairy which supplies your family with milk? 11. What requirements do you' make of the market where you buy fruits and vegetables? READINGS. Reports of the State Board of Health. Dairy and Food Laws. (Apply to State Board of Health.) Farmers' Bulletins Nos. 375, 413, 463, 480, 481, 602, 608. (Write Senators or Representatives, or Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C.) "Clean Water and How to Get It." — Hazen. "The Filtration of Public Water Supplies." — Hazen. "Sewage Disposal." — Kinnicutt, Winslow and Pratt. "Disposal of Municipal Refuse." — Parsons. "The Production and Handling of Clean Milk." — Winslow. "Municipal Sanitation in the United States." — Chapin. (Apply at public and school libraries.) 
 Mrs. Jane Rockwell, Dear Sister: You have asked some pointed questions about the prevailing sentiment concerning the raise in the price of sugar made by the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company last spring, and the subsequent charge of profiteering preferred against