[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: LEAH PYNE. | Author: PHEBE A. MERKLEY,]

LEAH PYNE.
	Whereas: God our Eternal Father, in His Di-
vine wisdom, has taken from our midst our belov-
ed sister and fellow-laborer. Sister Leah Pyne, an
earnest worker in the Relief Society of the Fourth
ward of Provo, of the Utah Stake of Zion;
	Whereas: In her separation from us, we have
lost from our number a wise counselor whose pre-
cept and example have, both in public and private
life been of a nature to elevate mankind and draw
them nearer to the fountain of all truth,
	Therefore, be it Resolved: that we the officers
and members of said Relief Society, extend our
condolence and sympathy to the bereaved family
of the deceased, and recognizing in her removal
our great loss, but realizing that the Hosts of
Heaven will rejoice on her arrival among them,
we humbly bow in submission to the Divine will
of our Father in Heaven.
	And be it Further Resolved. That a copy of
these resolutions be placed upon the records of
the Relief Society and a copy presented to the
family.
		Signed:	MRS. MARGARET WATSON,
				MRS. EMMA ASHWORTH,
				MRS. ELIZA A. SPERRY,
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Jensen, June 6, 1907. President
Sarah M. Colton presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and reading of min-
utes.
	Opening address by Sister Sarah M.
Colton, she also reported the stake as im-
proving. Reports were given from all the
wards except Mt. Dell, all are in good
condition.
	Song from Glines Relief Society by
Miss Effie Johnson and company. Essay
from Mt. Dell Relief Society written by
Mrs. Mary J. Searle and read by the
secretary Mrs. Phebe A. Merkley. Re-
citation from Jensen Relief Society by
Miss Leah Timothy.
	Bishop George Billings of Jensen spoke
of the organization of the Relief Society
and the work of the sisters, he felt to wel-
come all that had gathered together.
	Mrs. Harriett Goodrich gave a report
of the General Conference held in Salt
Lake City also of the General Relief So-
ciety Conference.
	Singing and benediction by C. F. B.
Sybert.
	Afternoon session: We continued our
services by the choir singing, and prayer
by Bro. Edward Longhurst. Singing and
other opening exercises. General and
local officers of the Relief Society were
sustained.
	A lecture on Faith from the Vernal Re-
lief Society by Mrs. Mary Gibson. An
Essay from Naples Relief Society entitled
"Influence of Woman" by Mrs. Rhoda
Goodrich. Sister Goodrich also spoke at
some length on a great many subjects.
	A song from Maeser Relief Society by
Clara C. Hacking and others.
	Mrs. Richardson related some of her
experience in the mission field in Scotland
which was very interesting.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett bore a strong
testimony, also gave some counsel in re-
gard to the plan gotten up for the Relief
Society work and of the duties of the
teachers, spoke of gathering grain for
storage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Colton spoke of the good
the Relief Society had done in regard
to making means for the Uintah Stake
Tabernacle, she thanked the people of
Jensen for their hospitality.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation."
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bro. Joel Bascom.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
						Secretary.
