[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: ELECTA WOOD BULLOCK. | Author: Unknown]

ELECTA WOOD BULLOCK.
	Electa Wood Bullock was born July 15th, 1834,
in Florence, Huron Co., Ohio. She is the daughter
of Gideon D. and Hannah Daily Wood. Her pa-
rents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Sain s in 1831. In 1839 Mrs. Bullock moved
with her parents to Far West, Mo., and went
through all the exciting scenes and vicissitudes of
the Saints in that country. From Far West they
removed to Adams County, Ill., in 1840, where
they resided until 1845, when they removed to
Nauvoo and in the spring of 1846 went with the
main body of the Saints to Council Bluffs. Here
the family remained until the spring of 1848 when
they undertook the long journey across the plains,
leaving the Missouri river May 16th, and arriving
in Salt Lake Sept. 24th. Mrs. Bullock resided in
Salt Lake City until 1854 and then moved to
Springville, Utah Co. During her residence in
Salt Lake City she was called by Pres. Brigham
Young to take an active part in the Drama. She
was in the cast of the first performance given in
the old Social Hall and for many years thereafter
was one who greatly assisted in promoting the in-
terest of the Drama in Utah. She possessed great
dramatic ability as many of her friends will testify.
In 1856 she was married to Isaac Bullock and has
since that time resided in Provo, where for many
years she conducted the “Bullock Hotel.” Among
those who have enjoyed the hospitality of the
“Bullock House” are numbered Congressmen,
Governors, Judges, English noblemen and states-
men and diplomats of several nations. She re-
tired from the cares and responsibilities of hotel
life in 1888, and since then has devoted her time
to the public service in numerous capacities.
	In 1890 she began to devote her energies and
ability to the promotion of the interests of Woman
Suffrage. From that time until today she has been
an earnest and consistent advocate of that great
and growing cause.
	In 1891 she was elected president of the “Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Co.” and she has
been continued in that position to the present
time; in the same year she was elected a delegate
from Utah to the National Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Washington D.C. After the adjourn-
ment of that congress she visited her relatives in
Ohio, and while at Oberlin, Ohio, received word
of the sudden death of her husband, whom she
had left but a few weeks before in the best of
health.
	Upon her return home she continued with in-
creased energy if possible, to labor in the interest
of equal political rights for woman, and her in-
fluence was brought to bear upon the minds of
many who otherwise were avowed enemies to the
cause.
	In 1893 she was called by the committee in
charge of the Utah exhibit at the ChicagoWorld’s
Fair, to act as one of the five Lady managers.


She went to Chicago in May and remained at the
Utah Building continually until the close of the
Fair the last of Oct. 1893. In the discharge of her
duties at the Utah Building, she made many
friends for Utah, and succeeded in removing a
great many prejudices against this people and
false ideas concerning her people and state.
	Prior to and during the campaign for the elec-
tion of delegates to the constitutional convention,
Mrs. Bullock made a thorough personal canvass
of Utah county, visiting every prec nct in the in-
terest of securing in the proposed State Constitu-
tion a provision for equal suffrage  There was no
one influence more potent than that wielded by
her and her ardent co-laborers that brought the
result of an able delegation from the second
county in the state, unanimously in favor of an
equal suffrage plank in the constitution. In this
work she stood above party politics and advocated
her cause solely upon the principle of human
liberty, and advanced civilization.
	For many years past, Mrs. Bullock has devoted
much of her time to the Relief Society. When the
organization of the 6th ecclesiastical ward of Provo
was effected she became the President of the So-
ciety in that ward, and holds the position at the
present time. Many a sad heart has been made
glad through her kind motherly advice and care,
her influence is felt for good wherever she goes.
And now at the age of 73 she is still hale, hearty,
and active and takes great pleasure in her public
work. She takes great delight in her children,
grandchildren and great-grandchildren with whom
she is surrounded, and every one of them is a credit
to her, and the community in which they live.
								O S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A FINE RECEPTION.
	On June 24th, 1907, a very pleasant re-
ception was tendered to Sister Elizabeth
W. Condie, our retiring secretary, who
has been connected with the 6th ward
Relief Society for many years, being sec-
retary for over twenty-five years in this
society. Her new home in the 4th ward
was crowded with guests all anxious to
honor Sister Condie. The Stake Coun-
selors of the Pioneer Stake Relief Socie-
ty were present; also Brothers James
Leatham and Thomas Winter, the sis-
ters and brethren numbering forty-five.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb, in her pleas-
ing manner, assisting to make everyone
happy. Each one had brought some
dainties to prepare for a sumptuous ban-
quet. Two large tables were spread with
dainties, including strawberries and cake of
various kinds, which all enjoyed heartily.
President Ellen R. Watson presided,
assisted by her Counselors, Alice Butter-
worth and Margaret Leatham. The sisters
sang—“We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Brother Winter, in a brief
manner, expressed his pleasure in being
an invited guest and spoke of the noble
work the sisters were doing. Singing—
“Now Let us Rejoice.”
	Stake Counselor Rebecca Pettit said she
expected President Cannon here today;
something has prevented her from com-
ing. “I have enjoyed myself much, I al-
ways do when engaged in this great and
noble work. You sisters show your res-
pect and love for Sister Condie by such a
gathering here today. Your President
must be proud of you sisters, you are all
active and energetic in this work. I am
proud to be here on this occasion to honor
Sister Condie, who has been a faithful
worker in your society; she has done ex-
cellent work in your midst; you will miss
her; she is truly worthy of the honor you
have shown her today.”
	Counselor Margaret Leatham said: “I do
honor and respect Sister Condie for her
faithful labors. She has been more than
a sister. I have known her over forty
years past. She has always been willing
and at her post on every occasion when

[Column 2]
duty called her; has been faithful and true
under every trial. Her life has not been
without severe trials; she has nobly stood
the test and clung to the iron rod; never
been ashamed of the gospel nor its prin-
ciples; has always nobly defended them.
We have one of the finest societies in the
Pioneer stake”.
	Singing—“The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary Ann Rushton bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the gospel.
Had undergone many trials; was now 84
years old. Had been in Nauvoo in all the
mobbing and persecution. Heard the
Prophet Joseph Smith speak in meeting
and prophesy many things which have
been literally fulfilled; had the pleasure of
shaking hands with the prophet. Said—
“O, how noble and grand he was; how I
rejoice when I reflect that I knew him;
yes, we loved him; his memory is dear to
us. I was in the meeting when the first
Relief Society was organized. During
the mobbing in Nauvoo my husband,
children and myself were hid in an old
wagon; nine masked men came up, de-
manding my husband, telling me they
would kill him. I replied—not, unless
you kill me first; if you come nearer we
will show you. Our faith never wavered.
God bless you all.”
	Counselor Butterworth felt that we all
came to show our respect to Sister Con-
die. The Lord has blessed her in a re-
markable manner, for she never failed us,
was humble and obedient: we feel we
lose one who was on hand when called
upon. We love and honor her and her
labors; pray she may live to enjoy her
beautiful home; that she may be blessed
in her posterity. We are proud of our
Society in the 6th ward. May the Lord
bless Sister Condie that she may be faith-
ful to the end.
	Song by Sister Bates, entitled: “Let
the Heavenly Gates ajar,” accompanied
by Sister Annie Poulton on the piano.
	Aunt Sarah Fullmer, as she is called
by those who know her, was one of the
oldest members of this society; crossed
the plains with the Pioneers; had been an
active teacher fifty-three years in this so-
ciety; was a presiding teacher twenty-five
years, and was never too feeble to act in
that capacity.
	Brother James Leatham said he felt
proud to be numbered with Relief Socie-
ty workers; he had known Sister Condie
forty-three years; had found her to be al-
ways the same true and faithful worker on
every occasion and in every capacity. She
had been a faithful worker in the Relief
society thirty-four years; taught school
and assisted to educate our young. “I was
connected somewhat with her in that ca-
pacity. Knew her to be faithful and true
in every calling, laboring for the advance-
ment of the Relief Society work. The
Lord has blessed you, sisters, in your
noble work and many aged who have
passed on to the other side have felt the
blessings of your labors. May the Lord
be with Sister Condie, that her last
days may be peace and joy and satisfac-
tion in the gospel. I pray that all may
fill the mission designed them.”
	President Ellen R. Watson presented
Sister Condie, in behalf of the sisters,
with a beautiful mahogany rocker.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb presented
Sister Condie with a beautiful batiste or
lap tablet with paper and envelopes, and
said that we wish you, in your leisure mo- 

[Column 3]
ments, to open this, and write us kind re-
membrances.
	Sister Condie, in replying to these
kind sentiments, said: “My dear sisters,
my heart is too full to express my feel-
ings and sentiments here today. May I al-
ways be worthy of your love and esteem.”
	The beautiful hymn, favorite with Sister
Condie, was sung: “O my Father.”
	After hand-shaking, many kind senti-
ments were expressed and all retired feel-
ing truly blest.
		Prest. ELLEN R. WATSON,
	Counselors ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM.


