[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: AND CHOIR. | Author: Unknown]

				AND CHOIR.

The organ’s voice came floating to my ear,
Soft, sweet, anon in sonorous roar,
Which rolled along the lofty arch; then died.
Again the melody rang out in sob and swell,
The choir in unison and many-voiced,
Burst into joyous half ecstatic tones and mood
Until the glorious refrain climax reached,
Like Choir supernal, “Life for Evermore!”

With head bowed low, and throbbing heart, to
	pain,
The strain sublime rang out once more;
To all surroundings lost, the spirit drank
That mystic, all-pervading draught again,
Till earth with all its cares and petty things
Were naught to that sweet rapture and its theme
The final swell in grand luxuriance rose,
The same refrain of “Life for Evermore!”

The prayer and benison arose to heaven
As if inspired, its words subdued to tears!
The throng passed out into the Sabbath street;
Some souls were hushed to peace and holy joy,
On others, Oh ’twas lost—that thought;
Its thrilling voice, its music and its power,
They nothing felt, or heard; saw not, cared not,
Had no dream there of “Life for Evermore!”

Moving in business marts, in social cheer;
At noon, in twilight, and on sleepless couch;
In midnight dreams; that mighty organ peal.
That heavenly choir hath echoed all around.
In worship, when alone, when crowds were by
The sacred burthen of that startling hour,
And strangely moving mood, the same heart
	throb,
The same words rang, Oh, “Life for Evermore!”

Praise God! Praise God for music and for moods,
For thoughts for Him, for inspiration’s touch!
For phrases rounded into burning words;
For all of life and flashing hope today;
For all suggestive and alluring thoughts;
’Mid mocking earth—life, shallow at its best!
For that assurance of a brighter day
Which, God-like, tells of “Life for Evermore!”

This may be mine, be yours, ’tis more than dream;
The way is marked by tread of patient feet,
But ’tis for “Life, and ’tis for evermore.”
The anthem here rings there in grander key,
The spirit-pulse throbs there as if ’twere here;
All God’s redeemed have equal parts,
And all the angels sing in grand acclaim,
In heightened bliss in “Life for Evermore!”
