[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Pocatello Stake | Author: Unknown]

		POCATELLO STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Pocatello Stake was held at McCammon,
June 12th, 1907, President Maria R. Hyde
presiding.
	There were present, besides members
of the Stake Board, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Sister P. Y. Beatie of
the general Board, also Henry S. Wood-
land of the Stake Presidency, and several
Bishops of the Stake.
	Unfortunately there was an almost con-
tinual down-pour of rain, commencing
early in the morning, and for that rea-
son there was not so large an attendance
as was desired.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Maria R. Hyde welcomed the breth-
ren and sisters, expressing her regret at
the condition of the weather which had
prevented many from attending the con-
ference. Eight ward organizations were
represented out of the twelve in the stake.
	President Hyde reported the general
condition of the Society; said that we are
solving problems that older stakes have
met and solved years ago. We are now
engaged in promoting the building of
granaries—we expect to have three ward
granaries and one district granary built
this year; the sisters are doing as well as
they can under existing circumstances.
	Sister Beatie rejoiced that we are pre-
paring to build granaries. Advised the
sisters to make their homes pleasant and
prepare their children for their life's
work, also spoke of the nurse class.
	President Woodland spoke of the noble
work performed by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society. Advised the sisters to hon-
or and sustain the Priesthood.
	Sister Larsen of the Grant ward gave a
lecture on repentance. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	On reassembling, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Dusenberry addressed the
congregation. Spoke of the feeling of
timidity that comes over us when called
upon to speak; its value lies in the fact
that it tends to make us more humble.
Advised the mothers to be patient with
their children, sympathize with them, be
companions to them, and make home
pleasant and a desirable place for them.
Related stories illustrating these truths.
	Sister Martha Scadden of the Pocatello
ward gave a lecture from the Book of
Mormon. Song by Master Clifford Wood-
land of the Marsh Center ward.
	Counselor Matilda Smith advised the
mothers to remember and relate the
beautiful stories told by Sister Dusenber-
ry, to their children; also spoke on the
storing of wheat. Bishop Boyce spoke
on this subject, exhorting the sisters not
to neglect this great duty. Bishop Mc-
Clellan had enjoyed the instructions giv-
en. Said we should read the instructions
with our children, and learn to govern
ourselves, that we may be better able to
govern them. After singing and prayer,
the conference adjourned for six months.
	ELIZABETH PRIEST, Secretary.
		BLACKFOOT STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Blackfoot Stake was held at Blackfoot,
July 15th, 1907, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Lucy A. Steers expressed the pleasure


[Column 1]
it gave her to see so many present
this stormy morning. Reported the
Blackfoot Stake in good working or-
der. Spoke of the annual fund and hoped
we would all be prompt in this. Verbal
reports were given by Matilda Rupp,
Blackfoot; Lost River by Stake President
Lucy A. Steers; Riverside by Maggie
Taylor; Groveland, by Alice Yancy; Ba-
salt by Mellie D. Dye; Woodville by Mary
Cunningham; Goshen by Sophia Soren-
sen.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert, missionary
from the Relief Society General Board,
was very pleased to be present, but was
sorry to hear of such a lack of attendance;
said the Relief work was a noble labor,
and she enjoyed it very much. Thought
we could visit the sick to cheer and com-
fort them, as this did much good; we as
mothers should teach our children the
law of tithing also teach them to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Also spoke of our aged
President and said she had the Relief So-
ciety work at heart. Although she is not
able to travel, her thoughts are with you
all. Advised the mothers to look after
their girls and boys and teach them to be
virtuous and truthful and live pure and
holy lives.
	Song by Louisa Herbert.
	Stake President James Duckworth was
glad to meet with the sisters and felt
paid already for coming; also glad to hear
the good reports.
	Counselor John F. Shelly was very
glad to be present and partake of the
good spirit; knew that if we all did our
duty, we would be blessed in our labors.
	Counselor Juliette Blackburn was
pleased to see so many present; glad that
we had our sisters from Salt Lake with
us; knew we were blessed with the spirit
of the Lord. Spoke on Temple work.
Thought we ought to have a band of
good lively teachers to work up an inter-
est in these associations; urged all to be
more prayerful and strive to do right.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society
Conference, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	Reports were given by Lucy Christen-
sen of Moreland ward; Thomas by Ber-
tha Noach; Shelly by Elizabeth Kelly;
Kimball by Alida Robertson. The re-
ports were very good in a financial way,
but a lack of attendence was reported by
all. President Lucy A. Steers thanked
all for coming out to report their asso-
ciations.
	Sister Woodbury of the St. George
Stake was glad to be present; also glad
to think she was counted worthy of being
one of God’s children; advised the moth-
ers to teach their little children to pray
and ask the blessing on the food; “do not
let your children roam the streets.”
Spoke of how she enjoyed working in the
Temple; thought we should all spend
more of our time for the Lord as our
time is short here on earth.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert spoke of
the many hardships she had endured for
the Gospel’s sake, but knew the Lord will
bless us all if we seek Him in prayer. She
also earnestly spoke of the Nurses’ class
to be taught in Salt Lake this year;
thought we Latter-day Saints should have
our own nurses and doctors; we are cer-
tainly the most blessed people on the
face of the earth.
	Stake President Sarah Carruth of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Asso-

[Column 2]
ciation, said she was delighted to be pres-
ent; we as mothers have a great work to
perform. Relief Society workers and Mu-
tual workers should go hand in hand.
Spoke of the evils of fault-finding.
	Bishop Frank C. Parkinson felt it an
honor to stand before the sisters in this
conference; referred to his labors as a
missionary and said he had received a
great deal of help from the Relief Socie-
ty of the Blackfoot ward. Said, “Moth-
ers, remember your daughters and teach
them to live pure and virtuous lives and
marry men of our own faith.”
	President Lucy A. Steers felt we had
had a good time together, and desired to
thank our visiting sisters, and also wished
them to carry our heartfelt thanks to
Salt Lake to the General Board, for
sending us such good sisters. We as a
Stake Board very much desire to have
the hearty support of the new Stake pres-
ident. Thanked all who had taken part.
	Singing and benediction and adjourn-
ment.
			ROSALIA NIELSEN,
						Secretary.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Snow-
flake stake was held at Snowflake, June
16th, 1907, Sister Alice Merrill Horne of
the General Board, present.
	As conference was held on Sunday,
Bishop Hunt took charge of the open-
ing exercises and then gave the meeting
into the hands of R. S. Stake President
Mary J. R. West, who gracefully welcomed
all to conference and expressed gratitude
for the visit of Sister Horne.
	Snowflake, Taylor, Shumway, Show-
low and St. Joseph branches were re-
ported by Sisters Nellie M. Smith, Mary
A. Standifird, Dicia Denham, Lucinda
Reidhead and Nina Porter respectively.
Written reports from Woodruff and Pine-
dale were read. All were represented as
doing fairly well and pleased with the
success of the Book of Mormon lessons.
	Ethel Porter Westover read an excel-
lent paper: “Restrain the Evil Tenden-
cies of the Child-”
	Brother Ninian Miller spoke very inter-
estingly on “The Condition of Women
before the Prophet organized the Relief
Society.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne addressed
the meeting. Said President Bathsheba
W. Smith sent her love and greetings to
all the sisters. Spoke lovingly of her and
gave a brief sketch of her early life. She
placed great confidence in the stake and
ward presidents and desires them, to a
great extent, to work out their own ideas.
The subject of social purity among our
young people has been suggested as a sub-
ject for the missionaries to speak on.
	In the afternoon session, the meeting
was again given to the sisters after the
administration of the sacrament. The
first speaker was Counselor Emma L.
Smith, who spoke on Joseph Smith’s ef-
forts to place woman in her true position.
Her remarks were interesting and could
not fail to make the congregation think
more than once of her subject.
	Sister Mary Morgan, of the St. Johns
Stake, also addressed the conference.
Spoke of the comfort she had received
from attending Relief Society meetings,
and encouraged the sisters, old and young,
to become members.

[Column 3]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a very
beautiful address on art.
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were sustained by vote. In addition to
the Stake Board, Marie West Riggs was
sustained as Book of Mormon instructor,
and Annie Rogers assistant secretary.
	Interspersed among the speaking was a
song by Miss Ellen Adair: “Count your
ManyBlessings” also a quartette by young
ladies under the direction of Miss Mabel
Stratton, and some sayings of Brigham
Young by Master Lyman Horne. There
was also an evening session in which Sis-
ter A. M. Horne gave a lecture on house-
keeping.
	Sister May H. Larson gave an excel-
lent address on “What the Relief Socie-
ty work has done for woman.”
	Elders James M. Flake and Alof Lar-
son of the Stake Presidency made en-
couraging remarks.
	There was an organ recital by Mrs.
Nellie Hunt, a recitation by Master La-
zelle Smith, and a quartette under the
direction of Miss Adlee Lindsay.
	There was a larger attendance than we
usually have at the Relief Society con-
ferences and a genuine good feeling
seemed to be enjoyed by all.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


