HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty
of sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel.
The saying that man is a bundle of habits
is true of babies as it is of grown children.
If an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o’clock at night till daylight,
the habit of early sleep will be formed, and
the mother may have all of her evenings to
herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a long
morning nap will naturally come about din-
ner time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake till
six o’clock. Perseverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both child and parent. Some mothers
have a long season every morning and every
night in getting their babies asleep. They
rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is
entirely unnecessary. An infant can be ac-
customed by a few days’ training to go to
sleep itself for a morning nap as well as for
the longer rest at night. A mother has du-
ties to herself as well as to her offspring.
While she should exercise a most constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort,
she should secure restand recreation for her-
self. In no other way can she keep fresh
in feeling and buoyant in spirit. Nothing
is so wearing as the unceasing tending of a
fretful baby. Every means should be em-
ployed to aid the child in taking care of it-
self and giving as little trouble as possible.
It may learn in babyhood to amuse itself
with toys or by watching movements going
on around it. Fashion as well as good sense
requires infants’ dresses to be made with
long sleeves and high in the neck. Fashion
requires children of all ages to be warmly
clad. Flannel should incase the whole body,
with the exception of the head and the
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in in-
fants is the nakedness of their necks and
arms. Regularity in feeding is as import-
ant as either of the other requisites. Ba-
bies cry as often from being over-fed or fed
too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense
in this matter, and not force food into a ba-
by’s stomach for every little complaint it
makes. Children of three and four years
old need much more sleep than they usu-
ally have. For irritable and nervous chil-
dren sleep is a specific, and it can be secured
to them only by force of habit. Many light
forms of disease may be cured by keeping
a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read
this column experiment on these few sug-
gestions, and we are sure they will have
many an hour in the nursery for reading
and thought.—Ex.


MISS SMYTHE, the comic singer and bal-
let dancer of London, who still follows that
calling, is Viscountess Hinton, having mar-
ried the noble “Cosman” in 1869, who per-
formed as a pantomimist in several theatres
in 1869-71; and who has lately been discov-
ered to be none other than Viscount Hinton,
heir to Earl Poulett. The couple have a
son and heir, born to them in 1870. It is
difficult to tell who persons are after they
conceive a mania for the stage. In becom-
ing so many and such varied characters, is
it a wonder they should fail sometimes to
keep track of themselves?


A MAN named William George, 103 years
of age, living at Rochester, Ill., committed
suicide by hanging himself a few days
ago.


LIVINGSTONE'S DISCOVERER is now called
Stanley- Africanus.


