HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	IT IS not so material what you say as how
you say it. And this rule works famously
in other respects, as well as in regard to
speaking. Particularly is it adapted to
cookery. As some people have the happy
art of saying almost anything and having
it sound well, while others, less gifted in
that direction, can hardly express any
thought in a pleasing manner; so some
cooks are extraordinarily fortunate in hav-
ing a way of fixing up good and tasty meals
out of a very little, while others cannot
make a palatable dish of any kind, though
they may have on hand every luxury that
could be desired for the purpose. The best
cooks are not those alone who can arrange
the greatest variety of dishes, but those
who can prepare their food, no matter what
it is, in the neatest, sweetest, and most
wholesome style. Good sweet bread and
butter alone make a far better repast than
many rich and dainty dishes improperly
prepared; and no woman, whatever her
other attainments may be, can be considered
really a good housewife, who cannot make
these two articles. Neatness and economy
should characterize all our domestic con-
cerns. Prudence does not show a lack of
generosity, but quite the reverse; but ex-
travagance and waste are next to dishonesty
and should, at all times, be carefully guarded
against. And for the sake of the children,
great pains should be taken by mothers, to
have such food on hand as is suited for their
age and physical development.
	A SENSIBLE mother makes the following
remarks upon the physical treatment of
children:
	“The physical treatment of children is
important, but simple, if one wishes to
make it so. The main points are, bathing,
regularity of eating and sleeping hours,
simplicity of food, and out-of-door exercise.
	The habit of daily bathing should not be
suspended when a child is a few months
old. It is very little trouble, and, done
handily, takes little time. My experience
has been that it is not best to bathe a child
in entirely cold water. When he is put for
the first time in a bath-tub, the water
should be of such a temperature that he
may not perceive the transition from the
air to the water. I have often heard mothers
say that their children could not be bathed;
that they screamed as soon as they touched
[new column]
the water. There are ordinarily, but two
causes for this: either that the child was
not introduced to the bath-tub early enough
in his existence, or that the temperature of
the water was such as to shock him. When
your baby is thoroughly accustomed to the
tub, you can gradually reduce the tempera-
ture of the water, until, after a few months,
you can wash him in almost cold water.
	A child should eat regularly and simply,
but should have some variety of food. I
have found that a child soon gets tired of
one article, if confined to it. Bread and
milk, bread and butter, different forms of
toasted bread, simple preparations of corn
flour, rice boiled in milk, and roasted pota-
toes make a sufficient variety. Give your
child plenty of exercise in the open air; if
you live in a city, all I can say is, do the
best you can; but if you live in the coun-
try, there is no excuse for the child not hav-
ing as much exercise as is needful. If you
have a garden, then, in summer, leave
him out all day, if he enjoys it; in winter,
wrap him up, and send him out in moder-
ate and pleasant weather.
	Never mind about his getting dirty at
play. His face will be kept pretty clean if
he spends enough time in the open air to
prevent his taking bad colds, and if you do
not allow him to eat between meals.
	It is somewhat trying to see your little
boy or girl reveling in the midst of a pile
of dirt, especially when you remember that
Mrs. Herbert or Mrs. Fortescue, whose chil-
dren always look as if they had just issued
from a bandbox retirement, may possibly
call, and gaze with virtuously reproving
eyes; but never mind that. You are living
for your child; you know what is best for
its health and happiness, and do not allow
yourself to be moved from the course which
you know to be right by any false fear or
pride.”


