NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Riots in Rhenish Prussia have followed
the expulsion of the Jesuits. More religion!
	The California State Fair commences
at Sacramento on the 19th and continues to
the 27th.
	The water supply of Albany is failing
and a milk famine threatens the city. A
steady flowing artesian well might avert
the danger.
	The Marquis of Lorne and other Eng-
lish noblemen take turns in preaching to
the London working classes; and they might
be much worse employed.
	With gold as the god of the world, aud
the “almighty dollar” so earnestly wor-
shipped, it is no wonder the question “Will
it pay?” is so often asked.
	A colored woman recently jerked her
arm out of joint in her religious fervor at a
camp meeting. Such exercises make
fashionable piety in some places.
	A new religious sect has sprung up in
Iowa, composed entirely of Germans, who
hold a community of property and live
under the prominent rules of the Paris Com-
munists.	
	Henry Wilson, Republican candidate
for Vice-President, admits he was a Know-
Nothing once, and, as a consequence, was
opposed to foreign born citizens holding
any office.
	The Geneva Board of Arbitration has
concluded-its labors, and the world may re-
pose in quietude for a season, the intermin-
able “Alabama” claims being at length
disposed of.
	Von Moltke sent to Thiers, with “his
compliments,” a copy of his history of the
Franco-German war. How the grim old
strategist must have chuckled at the sat-
urnine humor of such a present so for-
warded!
	Pere Hyacinth, the famous preacher
of Notre Dame, in Paris, has broken his
views of celibacy, as well as broken with
the Pope, and like Martin Luther has mar-
ried. Sensible Hyacinth! he may now
become a pere in reality.
	A Congress of the Internationalists sat
at the Hague early this month, and decided
that the general Council of the society
should be located in New York. The
struggle between capital and labor in this
country will ripen as a result.
	Maine election occurred on the 9th,
and the heaviest vote for years was polled.
The Republicans carried the State by a
largely reduced majority when compared
with the last vote given as heavy as the one
this year, and that was in 1868.
	The New York “Tribune” speaks of the
“Woman’s Journal” as being “conducted
by several very estimable ladies of both
sexes.” It has, therefore, the advantage
of a large number of other journals, that
are conducted by ancient grannies of the
masculine sex.
	Queen Victoria is a grandmother again.
The daughters of this august lady, like
their mother, have not learned the fashion-
able crime of murdering their unborn off-
spring. They pattern after a noble and
[next column]
virtuous mother, and make amiable and
matronly wives.
	Joseph Jefferson, so lately nearly blind
from the use of a powerful light which he
was accustomed to have play upon his face
in “Rip Van Winkle,” is again able to fol-
low his profession. A Iess brilliant light so
employed may save to the stage, for years,
one of its leading ornaments.
	An “Autobiography of Satan” has
been prepared for the press by Dr. Beard,
of England; but the learned doctor does
not claim that it is his own biography; he
only edits it. The inference may be drawn
that he was on good terms with the charac-
ter whose personal history is to be given to
the world.
	The re-election of Grant is advocated by
Wendell Phillips, who also admits that he
was in error when the mission of the Re-
publican party was said, by him, to he at
an end. The “national scold" may live to
acknowledge that he has committed other
blunders quite as serious as that one, or per-
haps more so.
	“Can Editors be manufactured?” is a
question now stirring certain journalistic
circles. Of course they can, if there is the
right material at hand to manufacture them
of. The difficulty now is that the average
material used is left in an unmanufactured
condition, and in working itself into shape
it often presents a strange mass of incon-
gruous development.
	In the potteries at Leeds, England, one
thousand women are employed, working
nine hours a day, at the rate of sixty cents
a week. Some of our charity-loving neigh-
bors, who wish to donate a portion of their
means for the relief of the “down-trodden
women of Utah,” might do good by making
up contributions for the aid and encourage-
ment of such female laborers, who are wear-
ing life away in semi-slavery, with, appar-
ently, no hope of brighter days.
	Berlin has been in a blaze of military
glory and frantic enthusiam over three Em-
perors meeting in cordial greeting and im-
perial pomp. How many of those whose
voices called forth echoes from the blue
vault above, in response to their thoughtless
and wild cheers, will find bloody graves as
a result of the crowned heads of Germany,
Russia and Austria thus meeting? Am-
bition continues its promptings, and what
diplomacy cannot reach in the way of con-
quest, the cannon and the bayonet will be
invoked to accomplish.
	“Agassiz thinks the jelly fish has an
Immortal soul” sneeringly says an exchange.
And why not? Will some sage tell where
immortality terminates in the animal crea-
tion? And why should man be supposed
to be the only being endowed with immor-
tality? What kind of a heaven would it
be where men and womon would be the
only living creatures that once inhabited
earth? And what about the horses and
other members of the brute creation seen
in vision by John the Divine as inhabiting
eternity? Modern theology is a strange
bundle of crudities.
	“The appointment by the Mormons of
missionaries to evangelize Europe and the
United States looks very much like as if
[next column]
the tail was trying to wag the dog,” says
“Hearth and Home.” Just so; and so it
was felt some eighteen hundred and odd
years ago, by the pharisaic Hebrews and
the philosophers of pagan Rome, concern-
ing a few ignorant fishermen of Galilee.
Yet now those same fishermen are canon-
ized by the most powerful nations of the
world. Time is a great revolutionizer, and
that which is most derided to-day may be-
come in a few years most popular and
sought after.
	A convention of extreme, or Bourbon,
Democrats has been held in Louisville, Ky.,
to nominate still other men as candidates to
“rule over us,” if the people would so will
it. They rejected Greeley and repudiated
the action of the Democracy at Baltimore;
and, after nominating Charles O’Conor, of
New York, and John Quincy Adams, of-
Massachusetts, for President and Vice
President, their candidates declined the
honor, while endorsing the movement; and
the convention dissolved determined to vote
for their chosen ones whether they accepted
or not. Politicians do many knavish things,
many dishonorable things, and from this
Louisville convention it is fair to infer they
are capable of many exceedingly silly
things.
	The “Golden Age” is authority for say-
ing that the Republican Executive Com-
mittee at Washington has issued a confiden-
tial circular to certain prominent members
of the Woman’s Rights party, to organize
Grant and Wilson clubs and thus work for
the re-election of General Grant. And
there are among them those who will snap
at the bait, although the party, with a large
working majority in Congress, could easily
have passed an Amendment to the Consti-
tution, any time in the last four years, to
make woman suffrage a part of the supreme
law of the land, and have sent it to the va-
rious States for ratification. Rut they did
not; and the quasi recognition of woman’s
worth, contained in the Philadelphia plat-
form, was no more than a shallow attempt
to secure the influence of the Woman’s
party in the Presidential campaign.
	The steamer “Metis” struck by a
schooner off Rhode Island,and sinking, with
a loss of life very great but its extent not
fully known; the burning of the “Bien-
ville” off Central America, between thirty
and forty more souls being hurried into
eternity; and the burning of the “Ameri-
ca” in Chinese waters, with a loss of over a
million dollars in property and eighteen
lives; are some of the marine disasters re-
corded within the past two weeks. We
boast of the advance made in science and
art, of how the elements can be controlled
or resisted, what wonderful appliances are
ready to prevent accidents, casualties and
disasters; yet the sum total of the loss of
life and property from such causes would
stagger belief if computed in the aggregate.
But mankind in their high-mindedness and
pride will not believe that the Eternal is
speaking to thorn in signs of the times, with
the elements as His agents, fulfilling the
prophecies and pointing to the near future
when He will make bare His arm in power
for the accomplishment of His fore-ordained
purposes.


