OUR FAITH.

	It is customary for many people to speak
slightingly and contemptuously of the faith held
by the Latter-day Saints. Some are pleased
to call it absurd, others declare it is monstrous.
Are they acquainted with it? We think not.
But they seem to think it sufficient that it is a
different faith from that which they believe.
How modest mankind are, generally speaking!
They are willing to concede that every person
who thinks or believes in the same theories,
and holds the same opinions that they do, is a
sensible, intelligent individual. And, as  a
matter of course, they must be very sensible,
intelligent people; right, indeed, in all matters
of belief or opinion, and everybody that differs
with them must be wrong. This is humanity
as we generally find it. Believers in Christi-
anity, as it has been modernized, are willing
to concede intelligence and the possession of
sensible religious views to other believed in
Christianity, so long as opinions are expressed
in general terms and may, by liberal construc-
tion, harmonize broadly with their own; but
let them narrow down to details, and the be-
liever in saving election will manifest positive
hate against one that has faith in the free will
doctrine; the unitarian and trinitarian will de-
nounce each other's pet opinions in the strong-
est terms; and the Protestant and Roman
Catholic will show a detestation each of the
faith held by the other, that has in the past
made myriads of victims for the rack, the
fagot, and the fiendish instruments of torture
with which one set of “Christians” endeavored
to send other “Christians” to a hell of endless
torments, because they would not travel
heavenward in a road marked out by mortals
as ignorant as themselves.
	This is religious intolerance. Every person's
religious opinions appear sensible, rational and
intelligent to that person; but to others they
may appear absurd. We have no hesitation
in saying that the beliefs of many of those who
sneer contemptuously at our faith, appear to
us absurd, contrary to the revelations of God,
and exhibiting a woeful lack of that knowledge
which gives its possessor power with the
Heavens and over the imperfections that flesh
is heir to. Yet we do not sneer at them; why
should we? It would be better to teach such
persons correct principles if they would hearken;
though too many are lifted up in their own


imaginations, and, full of the vanity which
springs from ignorance, will not be taught.
	Our faith is dear to us. It is no blind belief,
no ignorant fanaticism. It has been intelligently
embraced as satisfactory, to our reasoning pow-
ers. It has brought with it conviction of its
truth that no barren theory could bring; and
testimonies of its divine origin that no causu-
istry nor sophistry can overturn. It has buoyed
up the Latter-day Saints to the accomplish-
ments of works that have made their name
famous in every civilized country; and the
Lord of Hosts has stamped it with the impress
of His divine seal, that those who examine it
with clear gaze, In the light of eternal intelli-
gence, can see the sign manual under which it
has been sent forth for the salvation of a world.


