MISCELLANEOUS.

	SEVENTY thousand dollars worth of silks,
supposed to have been smuggled, have been
seized in New York.
	A YOUNG lady who had many admirers
among the limbs of the law, on being
asked how she escaped heart-whole, sup-
posed it was owing to the fact that “in a
multitude of ‘counselors’ there is safety.”
	GOD looks not at the oratory of our pray-
ers, how eloquent they are; nor at their
geometry, how long they are; nor at their
arithmetic, how many they are; nor at their
logic, how methodical they are; but he looks
at their sincerity, how spiritual they are.
	A WOMAN lately looking at a printing-
press at work, looked up in the face of her
companion, and in a most earnest manner
inquired:
	“Well, Tim, an’ them’s the things as
writes the papers. Be’s them what they
call editors?”
	A NAUGHTY little boy blubbering because
his mother wouldn’t let him go down to
the river on the Sabbath, upon being ad-
monished, said: “I didn’t want to go a
swimmin’ with ’em ma. I only wanted to
go down and see the bad little boys drown
for going a swimmin’ on Sunday.”
	WISDOM is the associate of Justice. It
assists her to form equal laws, to pursue
right measures, to correct power, to protect
weakness, and to unite individuals in a
common interest and general welfare. He-
roes may kill tyrants, but it is wisdom and
laws that prevent tyranny and oppression.
	IT IS a sign of Christian manhood, where
one, though all the selfish instincts of his
nature impel him to do otherwise, thinks
mercifully, and waits to be gracious, and,
if he cannot form an opinion without sever-
ity, withholds his judgment till he can form
one that shall have more mercy in it. Take
care of the secret thoughts, of the inward
judgments which you form of men.
	THE character of the young men of any
community depends much on that of the
young women. If the latter are cultivated,
intelligent, accomplished, the young men
will feel the requirement that they them-
selves should be upright, and gentlemanly
and refined; but if their female friends are
frivolous and silly, the young men will be
found to be dissipated and worthless.
	DR. HOLMES says; “A woman, notwith-
standing she is the best of listeners, knows
her business, and it is a woman’s business
to please. I don’t say it is not her business
to vote, but I do say that the woman who
does not please, is a false note in the harmo-
nies of nature. She may not have youth
nor beauty, nor even manners; but she must
have something in her voice or expression,
or both, which makes you feel better dis-
posed toward your race to look at or listen
to.”
	A YOUNG mother was in the habit of air-
ing the baby’s clothes at the window. Her
husband did not like it, and believed if she
saw her practice as others saw it she would
desist. He so directed their afternoon
walk as to bring the nursery window into
full view from the central part of the town.
Stopping abruptly, he pointed to the offend-
ing linen flopping unconsciously in the
breeze, and asked sarcastically, “My dear,
what is that display in our window?”
“Why,” she replied, “that is the flag of our
union.” Conquered by this pungent retort,
he saluted the flag by a swing of his hat,
and pressing his wife’s arm closer within
his own, said, as they walked homeward,
“And long may it wave!”


