EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Had I been more literarily inclined, when
my parents and teachers used to urge upon
me the necessity of studying my books, I
should now be able to write a more interest-
ing letter to your paper than, I fear, I shall
do this time. But, however, as so few of
our efficient writers seem disposed to enun-
ciate the principles of truth in their more
elaborate and refined manner, now that
there is a chance for it, I trust that I may
not be thought out of place in offering a few
simple statements in my humble way. Es-
pecially as you have extended a general in-
vitation to all the broken-hearted, (!) down-
trodden (!!) to speak for themselves and tell
their own grievances. I have a story to
tell, I have a testimony to bear, and may
the Spirit of the Lord direct me that it
may be done in meekness and sincerity, and
be productive of good.
	It is a very extraordinary thing for an
English factory girl to mingle much in
young and gay society, and preserve her
dignity, chastity and reputation; as, doubt-
less, many of my readers can testify. Yet
such was my experience for some years,
and, thank Heaven, I escaped without a
blemish; owing perhaps to my falling des-
perately in love, at an early age, with a
young man who was the soul of honor, but
who was engaged to another lady and, con-
sequently, although he was very fond of
me, could not marry me. When he left
our place, all the young people began to
wonder on whom I would next fasten my
affections; for they did not know, and
neither did I then, that I never should care
for any one else. Two years afterwards,
the Mormon Elders came and preached the
gospel to us. My widowed mother joined


the church, and it was to please her, five
years after, that I consented to emigrate to
America, and come to the valleys of the
Saints. My associates of the factory tried
by dissuading me, to prevent my coming.
They talked of the “poor, miserable Mor-
mons,” and their horrid practices. But
when they found I was determined to fulfil
my agreements with my mother, they made
me promise to write them the truth
when I got to Utah.
	I have done so. I have told them how I
attended meetings for a long time before I
became convinced that it was the truth of
Heaven which the elders taught. How six
months after I had been baptized, I hap-
pened to meet, at a general conference,
with my old love, of whom I had not heard
a word for more than seven years, and his
wife whom I had never met before. And
that they both still declare they are happier
for having found me, and can realize and
acknowledge that the hand of God has been
over us all for good. The factory girls still
ridicule and laugh at me, but I do not mind
that, since I know that but for their pride
and ignorance they would any of them own
that they envy me my dear, honored hus-
band and my baby.
							K.G.


