FLOWERS BY THE WAYSIDE.

	ONE bad example may spoil many good
precepts.
	THE love of praise should ever be pre-
served under proper subordination to the
principle of duty.
	GLORY is well enough for a rich man, but
it is of very little consequence to a poor man
with a large family.
	TOO much asseveration gives a ground of
suspicion. Truth and honesty have no need
of loud protestations.
	THOUGH often blighted, true affection
never dies, but will glow brightly over the
graves of envy and rivalry.
	HE who treats men ingenuously, and con-
verses kindly with them, gains a good
esteem with very little expense.
	SOCRATES, though primarily attentive to
the culture of his great mind, was not neg-
ligent of his external appearance.
	OF ALL the unhappy deserters from the
path of science, none seem less able to re-
turn than the followers of indolence.
	TRUTH has force, reason authority, and
justice power; but they are without lustre if
the most graceful way and manner be want-
ing.
	WHEN we reflect upon the many dis-
tresses which abound in human life, where
so much is suffered in common, little room
is left for envy.
	EVERY day hath its pains and sorrows,
but if we look impartially around us, we
shall find that every day hath also its
pleasures and joys.
	THE greatest benefits we ever do our-
selves is in securing the greatest amount of
real happiness, which is only done by doing
good to our fellow creatures.
	IN judging of others we should always
think the best, employing the spirit of char-
ity and candor; but in judging of ourselves,
we ought to be exact and severe.
	THE hope of future happiness is a per-
petual source of consolation to the good;
under trouble it sooths their minds, amidst
temptations it supports their virtue.
	ART thou poor? Show thyself active and
industrious, peaceable and contented. Art
thou wealthy? Show thyself beneficent
and charitable, condescending and humane.
	WITH all the troubles and cares which
mortals have to encounter here, if we look
for good instead of ill, we shall find, in
nearly all conditions in life, there is more
cause for gratitude than for regret.
	THE pursuits of sensual pleasures are not
those which afford in remembrance the
most rational satisfaction; we recollect with
most pleasure the innocent, virtuous, and
honorable parts of our past lives.
	WHERE good is to be administered, it is
better to give than to receive; but where
wrong comes in, it is better to receive than
to inflict an injury; and if the perpetrator
has a conscience he is sure to suffer most.
	THE palace of virtue has, in all ages, been
represented as placed on the summit of a
hill, the ascent of which can only be per-
formed by labor, where difficulties are to be
surmounted, and a conductor is needed to
direct and aid our steps.
	THE cost of a change from heavy to light
clothing, made by a brilliant young lady,
when attending a ball, on a damp, cloudy
evening, was first a sore throat and head-
ache, followed by torturing rheumatism,and
in less than a week, amounting to a burial
outfit.


