FACTS AND FIGURES. 
				
	OXFORD Univerity celebrates its 1000th
anniversary this year.
	THE new Freshman class of Harvard
already number 191.
	THE Free Traders of England propose an
international conference.
	THE Boston Gas Co. has a well 1,100 feet
deep without striking water.
	MARYLAND cotton factories consume
30,000 bales of cotton per week.
	THE population of Paris is said to have
decreased 500,000 in the past six years.
	THE colored voters of the country are
said to number 900,000, and the politicians
are after them.	
	MORE people have been killed by light-
ning in England this summer than has ever
been known before.
	FALL RIVER, Mass., has now in opera-
tion thirty mills, containing 1,100,000
spindles, representing $25,000,000 capital,
and employing 15,000 operatives.
	THE year 1816 was the coldest ever
known in New England. There was no
summer, and ice formed in June, July and
August.	
	THE New Haven undertaker had recently
twenty-seven dead children to care for in
one day, the deaths being caused mainly
by cholera infantum.
	THE new Catholic cathedral at Boston is
approaching completion, and, when finished,
its tower will rival the State, House as a
prominent landmark for people approach-
ing Boston.
	THE new armory, or city prison of Chi-
cago, will cost about $40,000, and will be
80x100 feet in size, two stories high. The
lockup department will contain twenty-four
cells, each 7x12.
	A MAN in Jamaica, Vt., within the last
six years has had born to him by his first
wife a pair of twin daughters, she dying,
and by a second wife one pair of twin boys
and another pair of twin daughters—being
three pair of twins by two mothers.
	THE cost of living in the larger cities in
this country is yearly increasing, but this
is also true of the cities of the Old World.
One thousand dollars in London at the pres-
ent time will purchase no more than seven
hundred dollars ten years ago.
	IT HAS been proved by repeated experi-
ments that it is possible to rule lines with a
diamond point on glass so close together
that upwards of 60,000 of them are com-
prised in the space of one inch. The appar-
ent limit of vision in the best microscope
does not, however, reach beyond lines sep-
arated one eighty-thousandth of an inch.
	CAPT. Hervey’s experiment with Chinese
workmen in his laundry at Belleville, N. J.,
is so far successful that another troop has
been sent for, and a new building for their
accommodation is in process of construction.
All animosity between the Irish girls in the
laundry and the “haythens” appears to have
subsided, and they get along very amicably
together.
	NARROW-GAUGE railroads, according to a
paper recently read before the New York
society of engineers, have an advantage
over broad-gauge roads of 25.48 per cent, in
road bed and road construction. It was also
asserted that there is a saving of 5 per cent.
in the cost of stations, of 28 per cent. in
the cost of car shops, and 21.07 per cent. on
the cost of rolling stock. The average sav-
ing on all items, it was stated, would be
24.03 per cent.


