THE TERRITORIAL FAIR.

	The Board of Directors of the Deseret Agri-
cultural and Manufacturing Society are busily
engaged preparing for the approaching Fair.
Hon. A.P. Rockwood has been placed in charge
of the Fair grounds; Messrs. Henry Dinwoodey
and George Naylor are superintending the erec-
tion of stalls; and the work of preparation is
being actively pushed forward. The place in
which the exhibition will be held is the 13th
Ward Assembly Rooms, a large and commodi-
ous building, and the same in which the last
Fair, that of 1869, was held. In the rear,
ground has been secured for the display of
stock, which is expected to be very large; and
altogether the prospects are that the exhibition
will be, in every sense, a credit to the Terri-
tory.
	People see here and there a specimen of su-
perior work in some branch of industry; ele-
gant Utah-made furniture, an excellent fabric
of cloth, a piece of embroidery that would
compare with the best specimens from Scot-
land or Ireland, straw-work outvieing any im-
ported; or some other article showing the
artistic skill and cultivated taste which many
Utah workmen and workwomen possess; yet
the fact is soon forgotten; add even if it were
remembered it would give but a faint idea of


what is done or can be done in the Territory.
But when we have an exhibition of the work
of skilled hands from many parts of the Terri-
tory, the eye can take in at a glance an amount,
of knowledge that a volume of descriptive
writing would scarcely convey, in regard to
the growth and development of the country,
that in less than a quarter of a century has
been wrested from a barren wilderness.
	We need not urge upon the ladies of the Ter-
ritory to exert themselves that the Fair may
be a great success so far as their special depart-
ments are concerned, satisfied that the circular
of the Board of Directors, addressed to the Fe
male Relief Societies, which was published in
the last number of the EXPONENT, will meet a
gratifying response. Yet it would have been
better if the circular could have been given to
the public a month earlier, so that ladies could
have had more time and opportunities for the
selection of materials and arrangement of dif-
ferent specimens of home manufacture. The
length of time allowed is hardly sufficient for
the production of many articles of taste and
skill, especially for women with families to
look to, which must occupy a large portion of
their time.


