THE SEX.

	NO WOMEN have applied for admission to
Amherst College this year.
	THE WIFE of the late General Robert An-
derson will reside in Florence hereafter.
	SIX ladies will be admitted to the
Wesleyan University, at Middletown, at
the next term.
	MISS Rye is on her way from Liverpool
with another lot of model servant girls for
the Canadians.
	IT IS an error to imagine that women talk
more than men. They’re listened to more
—that’s all.
	MRS. Barnard, a lady of some journal-
istic experience, has become managing edi-
tor of the Washington “Chronicle.”
	THREE ladies act as notaries public in
Iowa. They are Miss Zoe Taylor, Miss E.
C. Stebbins and Miss Laura A. Berry.
	“THE charming Lotta” is abroad, dili-
gently pursuing the study of French and
music in the boading school of a French
convent.
	YOUNG ladies will hereafter be admitted
to the collegiate department of Griswold
College, Iowa, on the same terms as the
young men.
	THE Academy of Sciences at Philadel-
phia has elected a woman to full fellowship,
and there is also a lady on one of its active
committees.
	AFTER a competitive examination, Miss
Carrie S. Sheads has been promoted from a
second to a first class clerkship in the Bu-
reau of Statistics.
	“THE only remarkable thing,” says Han-
nah More, “which belonged to me as an
authoress was, that I had written eleven
books after the age of 60.”
	THE Massachusetts Woman Suffrage As-
sociation has again appointed a committee
to bring the quesion of woman suffrage be-
fore the respective political parties at their
approaching State conventions.
	SIGNORA Aurelia Cinimo Falliero De
Luna, a well-known Italian authoress, has
established in Florence a semi-monthly
newspaper, entitled the "Cornelia," devoted
to the advocacy of Woman's Rights and the
promotion of the education of Italian
women.
   TENNIE Claflin and Victoria Woodhull
announce that they will sue the Springfield
(Mass.) "Republican" for libel for allowing
a correspondent to say that they had at-
tempted to blackmail Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Elizabeth S. Phelps, and others.
They also propose to sue these ladies for
making the charge originally.
	THE expectation that Miss Nellie Grant
is to "come out" this season, fills the hearts
of the fashionable young ladies of Washing-
ton with unwonted hope. It was under-
stood before she left on the European trip
that this winter her appearance "in society"
would be the key-note of many others bud-
ding in their latest teens to enter the arena
of social fashion.
	MADEMOISELLE Celeste, the tight-rope
artist, had her leg broken by the rope giv-
ing way during one of her performances at
Shawneetown, Ky. The physician who set
the limb evidently did not know his busi-
ness, and instead of joining the bones to-
gether he lapped one over the other,
consequently the broken limb is about three
inches shorter than the other. She is now
on her way home, in Rome, N. Y., to have
the family physician break that limb again,
and reset it.


