USE AND ABUSE OF DRESS.
			    _____
	It was Lavater who said that women
habitually attentive to dress display the
same regularity in their domestic affairs, 
while another writer, alluding to the care-
lessness of some wives concerning their at-
tire, emphatically affirms, "It is one of the
moral duties of every married woman to
appear well-dressed in the presence of her
husband." But to effect this, expensive or
elaborate attire is by no means essential. 
The simplest robe may evince the wearer's
taste as truly as the most costly gown of
"moire antique"—in fact, the simplest
dresses are often the most graceful. Gar-
ments should follow, as far as possible, the
shape of the body as devised and found
good by the great Artificer. All that follows
those beautiful lines must be itself beauti-
ful. All that changes, deforms, or exagger-
ates those lines must be senseless, ugly, 
ludicrous and untrue. Whether a gown
swell out into the hoops of the great tun of
Heidelberg, or project backward like the re-
verse side of the Hottentot Venus, it is
alike hideous. A gown may be of many
folds, of many thicknesses, but it should
[new column]
not turn a woman into a caricature of the
form God made, and made last of all. All
women will admit the truth of this, even
while they persist in disfiguring themselves
in the very manner condemned, for, in jus-
tice to the mass of elaborately-dressed ladies
who daily walk our streets, we must admit
that were they to follow inclination alone,
their costumes would be much simpler.
There breathes not the woman who does
not secretly detest her narrow-soled boots,
with their pointed heels; the heating, brain-
depressing “chignon;” the uncomfortable
corset and unwieldy “panier.” Yet she
lacks courage to discard these instruments
of torture because fashion sanctions their
use. O fashion, fashion! Dare you number
your victims? This mania for costly “dress”
is devastating our American society, and
demoralizing American women to an alarm-
ing extent. The wives and daughters of
the rich men who lead society in this fear-
ful race of extravagance are responsible for
a great share of the prostitution which
curses the nation as-well as for thousands of
business failures, scattered families, and the
long train of miseries among us under the
cover of “keeping up appearances.” An
English tourist recently traveling through
America, complained that owing to the
prevalent custom of elaborate dressing fol-
lowed by American women, it was impos-
sible to distinguish the “shop-girl” from
the “lady of means.” And that brings us
to another part of this subject. Poor girls
dress as expensively as possible, because
they well know that if they do not, society
will punish them bitterly. To be unable to
“dress” is to be treated by men and women
both with almost disrespect in the car, the
boat, at the public gathering, the street and
the shop; to be ignored; to feel the shrug
of contempt, the sneer of levity and the
smile of scorn; to be thrust aside; to be
laughed at; to be unceremoniously dis-
placed; to be cruelly driven out of good so-
ciety; to have heart, intelligence, thought,
virtue, character, held as nothing against
silk; to be stung; to be outraged; to
be proscribed; to be insulted: all this
and much more. It matters not
whether this state of things is right or
wrong; it exists, as every woman who can-
uot follow fashion’s whims knows to her 
cost. It is time for a reform to commence
somewhere; but what woman will head it?
And “what man” will approve and help
her?—“Waverly Magazine.”


