SPLINTERS.

	Engine makers at Berlin are on a strike...
Ex-empress Carlotta is fast sinking at Vi-
enna, with no hopes entertained of her re-
covery......Women blacksmiths abound in
Staffordshire......A young woman in New
Orleans is hopelessly blind, from drinking
water that passed through leaden pipes......
The Spanish war schooner “Condor,” was
burned at sea on her way to Hanover; crew
and passengers were saved......A daughter
of Senator Brownlow, of Tennessee, has
been placed in a convent for attempting to
elope with a stone cutter......Horace Gree-
ley’s brother, Barnes Greeley, is said, not to
be a Greeley man......Miss Emily Faithful,
editor of the “Victoria Magazine,” Eng-
land, is coming over to America, by invita-
tion, to see and lecture us.....The Sultan has
sent to the ex-Empress Eugenie a magnifi-
cent sapphire surrounded by large brilliants,
valued at $15,000......The French Prince
Imperial has obtained permission of Queen
Victoria to become a student of the Royal
Military Academy at Woolwich......Chicago
has a Scandinavian population of 43,000......
An eccentric South Bend beauty carries her
husband’s hod when sickness disables him...
The Arch Duke Charles, brother of the Em-
peror of Austria, is soon to be married to
the Princess Maria, youngest daughter of
King Ferdinand II, who is seventeen years
old......Spurgeon is coming to America......
Hugh Stowell Brown, England’s most cele-
brated Baptist pulpit orator, is lecturing in
the east.....Two thousand one hundred and
fifty-three California subscribers to the At-
lantic and Pacific railroad stock have made
the subscription aggregate $1,528,300......
Secretary Fish is delighted at the progress
of the Geneva arbitration......Greeley ac-
cuses the administration of playing strategy
to defeat his election......Yellow fever pre-
vails as an epidemic in Carthagenia, South
America......At Albany one bushel of pota-
toes is worth as much as two of wheat......
Two Fort Stevens girls paddled a small boat
from the Fort to Astoria, a few days ago......
Cholera is raging in Laeore and other places
in British India......General bankruptcy
threatens the planters of Alabama, owing
to the ruin of their cotton crops by the boll
worm......The Illinois “Straights,” in their
Springfield convention, adopted resolutions
and uttered bitter speeches against the sale
of the party at Baltimore to Greeley......
One thousand revolutionists are reported
still in arms in Sinaloa, Mexico......At Lin-
coln, the capital of Nebraska, the Democrats
coalesced in convention and nominated a
mixed State ticket, with Lett (Dem.) for
Governor......Proofs have been laid before
the United States Commission at Browns-
ville, Texas, of the complicity of officers of
the Mexican government in murders and
robberies on the Texan border......One of
the most opulent as well as agreeable ladies
at Saratoga, this season, is the widow of
General John H. Morgan, the famous
raider......The President of the California
State University receives a salary of $10,000
in gold, a year, a house and other things
for comfort......Roasted coffee is said to be
one of the most powerful of deodorizers,
actually destroying noxious animal and
vegetable effluvia......The lumbermen of
Maine predict that the forests in that State
will not last more than five years longer.
This year, the lumber is estimated at 700,-
000,000 feet......Iron springs have been dis-
covered at Long Branch and promise to add
to the popularity of that, already, popular
summer resort......The Emperor of Abys-
sinia has presented the Jardin d’ Acclimata-
tion, Paris, with six magnificent zebras,
[new column]
valued at L120 each......Baltimore has a
water famine and is about to spend $3,000,-
000 to remedy it......The electric current
passes through the Atlantic cable at a velo-
city of from seven thousand to eight thou-
sand nine hundred miles per second......Cal-
ifornia is making her first export of leather.
......Mark Twain will travel through Eng-
land, Ireland and Scotland......U. S. Grant,
junior, has gone to study in Hanover......
Tne mayor of Yeddo is in this country......
A Jewish temple, costing $60,000, is nearly
completed in Milwaukie, Wisconsin.......
Erie, Pa., was nearly destroyed by fire re-
cently......A part of the cathedral of Canter-
bury has been burned......Arthur Helps, the
author, is to be knighted......Baron Roths-
child, of Frankfort, is going to the Holy
Land......French soldiers are to be instruct-
ed in singing......The Countess de Blau-
cherry fought as a common soldier at a
battle near Orleans, during the late French
war, and has received the cross of the Le-
gion of Honor......Americans are crowding
to Baden-Baden this season. Gambling will
be prohibited there after the close of this
year......Powers, the sculptor, has been
made a Knight of the Brazilian Order of
the Rose......The Grand Duke of Hesse
Darmstadt is to marry an opera dancer......
The Crown-Princess Victoria, of Prussia,
daughter of Queen Victoria, offers a prize
of $8,000 for the best essay on advancing
the material prosperity of workingwomen....
Carlist troubles have again broken out in
Spain......Cluseret is preparing a history of
the Paris Commune......A new process of
preserving meat and vegetables has been
communicated to the French Academy of
Sciences.


