HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE HOME  Missionaries continue their labors
throughout the Territory with excellent re-
sults.
	ONE THOUSAND tickets of admission to the
Territorial Fair have been printed by order of
the Board of Directors of the D. A. & M. Society.
	WILL OUR friends exert themselves to bring
in increased subscription lists for the EXPO-
NENT during the approaching Fair and Semi-
Annual Conference?
	THE EXPONENT is a woman’s paper, and we
would be pleased to have still more contribu-
tions from ladies who sympathize with its ob-
jects and desire its success. We hope this
general invitation will be accepted in the place
of private and personal ones.
	ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNG, junior, of the
Twelve Apostles, has been presented to the
people, of Cache county, in conference assem-
bled, as president of Cache and Rich counties,
and the appointment has been sustained by
their unanimous vote and united prayers.
	HONS. GEORGE A. SMITH, Wilford Woodruff
and George Q. Cannon and A. M. Musser, Esq.,
have gone to California to attend the State
Fair, as a delegation from the Deseret Agricul-
tural and Manufacturing Society. Their visit
will be of value to the industries of Utah.
	THE VOTE of this Territory at the last gen-
eral election, held August 5th of the present
year, was 22,913; and yet Utah is refused a
State government! Probably the fact that Mr.
Cannon, the People’s candidate, received 20,969
against 1,942 for his opponent, may account in
part for its continued condition of tutelage.
	THE PRIMARY and intermediate department
of the University of Deseret opened on Septem-
ber 2nd, with Miss Mary E. Cook as principal.
It gives us much pleasure to speak in the
warmest commendation of this lady’s abilities
as a practical instructor and teacher of large
experience. The department has about two
hundred pupils, with room for more, in the
Social Hall in this city, where the classes
meet.
	A FEW days ago the ground was dedicated
and broken for the water-works of this city,
Alderman Groo, of the City Council, offering
the dedicatory prayer, and Mayor Wells turn-
ing the first shovelful of earth, followed by
President Young also moving part of the soil.
We chronicle the fact for several reasons.
First, these are the first city water-works com-
menced in the Territory; second, they mark the
growth, of the city and the large increase of
population; and, third, that at the inception
of all public improvements, those for what are
termed secular uses as well as those for ecclesi-
astical purposes, the Latter-day Saints always
invoke the Divine blessing upon their labors,
[new column]
and dedicate their work, and the ground that
is to be devoted to such purposes, to the Al-
mighty under whose providential care they en-
joy all the blessings which they possess.
	A TERRIBLE tragedy occurred in this city on
September 3rd. One young man named Wil-
ford Tibbits, sought and met two others named
B. Whiting and W. Wilson, accused the for-
mer of traducing him, struck them both with
a heavy club, and was shot and killed by Wil-
son, who was subsequently arrested, examined
and discharged, on the ground that the homi-
cide was justifiable, being committed in self-
defense. The deed of blood was the result of
evil passions, revenge, and, it is said, intemper-
ance. How carefully mothers should guard
and guide their children in early years, to the
repression of outbursts of vindictive passions;
how wisely should the steps of the young be
directed, that their older years may be marked
by a course honorable in itself and winning
the esteem of the good, instead of one that
might bring shame and disgrace, for evil deeds!


