MINUTES OF A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE F. R. SOCI-
				ETIES OF PROVO.
			Meeting House, Sep. 5, 1872.
	Present, President A. O. Smoot, Bishops
Tanner, Scott, Follett and Johnson. Presi-
dent Smoot was chosen to preside.
	After the usual ceremonies of singing
and prayer, President Smoot said he met
Sister E. R. Snow in Salt Lake city, can-
vassing for students in view of opening a
school of medicine and surgery for the in-
struction of females; that those possessed
of nerve, energy and ambition for such a
laudable life, might have opportunities of
qualifying themselves. He had promised
his support by laying the matter before the
ladies of Provo, which he proposed to do
to-day. He suggested that suitable persons
be selected to attend that school. This
idea was already in practical operation in
the east, and why should not the women
of Utah take measures for gaining a knowl-
edge of the physical organization of the
human system, especially that of the fe-
males, that the ladies of our community
might receive, when necessary, medical or
surgical treatment from those of their own
sex? He said, furthermore, that the right
of franchise would prove a great blessing
in aiding the ladies to assert their right to
hold public office, and was anxious to see
them take an interest in all branches of co-
operation, that principle being one of the
stepping-stones to the Order of Enoch. It
was also their privilege to assist in emigrat-
ing the poor by enriching the P. E. Fund.
He alluded to the duties of the F. R. Socie-
ties in their administrations to the poor,
[next column]
and said theirs was a noble calling of love
and mercy, and in their appointments they
receive a portion of the priesthood of God.
He also touched on the responsibilities of
maternity in connection with the knowledge
of the gospel and its covenants. The
mother has the molding of the character of
her offspring; and mothers should realize
this in its keenest sense. The immorality
and waywardness of youth to a great ex-
tent are owing to a false sympathy or a
lack of the performance of their duty, by
parents. The Sunday school was one of the
great helps which should be encouraged as
a safe-guard by parents. The influence of
woman should be exerted for promoting the
happiness and good of the community in
which she lives. He continued his exor-
tation by urging the necessity of subscrib-
ing, “one and all,” for the EXPONENT, it
being a powerful advocate for the principles
of our religion. The “Juvenile Instructor”
was another medium through which our
youth would receive the principles of life
and salvation, and should be in every family.
He also solicited all to take an interest in
the coming Territorial Fair.
	Bishops Tanner, Johnson and Scott fol-
lowed in brief but pointed remarks on the
welfare of woman, her duties and responsi-
bities, and exhorted each of them to study
principles which would save and prepare
them for their true position, as help-mates
to man in the redemption of the human
race.
	It was moved by Mrs. R. A. Holden and
seconded by Mrs. M. J. Tanner, that Mrs.
L. W. Kimball forward a report of this
meeting to the Exponent for publication.
	Adjourned sine die.
					L. W. KIMBALL,
							Secretary.
	A meeting of the First Ward F. R. Soci-
ety was held on Thursday, September 5th;
sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and
others being present by invitation. After
singing and prayer, some excellent minutes
of a previous meeting were read. Mrs.
Z. D. Young first occupied a portion of time,
in encouraging the sisters of that ward, and
exhorting them to faithfulness and dili-
gence in learning and keeping the com-
mandments of God. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting, advancing and
dwelling upon many beautiful and useful
subjects in a highly instructive and im-
pressive manner. Appropriate and inter-
esting remarks were also made by Brother
Mitchell, Bishop Joseph Warburton, Mrs.
Wheeler and Miss L.  L. Greene. The
meeting was then adjourned by singing,
“For the strength of the hills we bless thee,
Our God, our fathers’ God;” and benedic-
tion by Elder Mitchell. 
	Mrs. Mary Chase is President, and Eliza-
beth Thayne, Secretary, of the First Ward
Society. There are quite a number of poor
families belonging to the ward, who are
blessed and solaced by the energies and
good feelings and acts of the Society.
	At the meeting of the F. R. Society of
the Second Ward, in this city, held Septem-
ber 6th, Mrs. Ann McGregor presided in
the absence of the President Mrs. Necolena
Olsen. Meeting opened with singing, and
prayer by Mrs. Sarah Wheeler.  Testimo-
nies were borne to the truth of the gospel,
and business was transacted in a spirited
manner. Donations were handed in for the
purpose of assisting in finishing off the
ward school house, which, added to the col-
lection made at the previous meeting,
amounted to $34, according to the report of
the Secretary, Mrs. Jane Rickard. The So-
[next column]
ciety is united, without exception, in the
work of the advancement of the cause of
truth, and they rejoice in administering to
the wants of the needy and in comforting
the bereaved.
				OGDEN, Sept. 4, 1872.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Since my last, of July 20th, the Relief
Society of Ogden has held two very inter-
esting meetings. For some months past
our former President, Sister Harriet C.
Brown, has desired and requested to resign
her office, which was much regretted by
all, yet it was not that she desired to cease
her labors or her interest for the Society.
By invitation President Richards, Bishop
Herrick and Counsellor Thompson attended
and assisted to complete our reorganization,
as well as to teach us. Sister Jane S.
Richards was unanimously elected Presi-
dent, and she selected Sisters H. C. Brown
and Sarah Herrick for her counsellors, who
were accepted and sustained with the great-
est unanimity of feeling. We are not
troubled with division of sentiments, al-
though there are some who do not seem to
appreciate the value of our institution, as
the Prophet Joseph and other leading
Elders in the church must have done. Still,
we hope to see the growing interest increase
and extend until all the truly worthy are
engaged with us. On the occasion of the
setting apart of our sisters to their new
callings, we were favored with much very
interesting and profitable instruction from
the presiding brethren who met with us.
President Richards after telling us much
we ought to do, exhorted the Society to be
lively and energetic,and not to be so afraid of
doing wrong as to not dare to do right.
Bishop Herrick expressed himself much
pleased with the instructions given, and
said he was only sorry all the members of
the Societies in the county were not present
to hear them, and profit by them. He felt
to bless the Society and all God’s people.
	Sister Beckington and counsellors, from
Marriott settlement, contributed to the in-
terest of the meeting by cheering remarks.
	Sister Richards expressed herself anxious
to do good in her new position, and asked
the forbearance of the sisters towards any
apparent shortcomings on her part. Sister
Brown felt better than ever in the condition
of the Society, and the work that is before
us. Our meeting, adjourned for two weeks.
			AMELIA M. FRODSHAM,
						Secretary.


YATE, the present primate of the Church
of England, and Manning, the famous Ro-
man Catholic archbishop of Westminster,
were both pupils, forty years ago, to a cler-
gyman named Cheese, who still lives in
England. It must be gratifying to the
aged tutor to now see the fruits of his by-
gone labors. A young and gifted mission-
ary belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, last winter met, for
the first time in several years, the aged
elder who, he said, “taught him his letters.”
Tears came into the eyes of the gray-haired
man when he spoke of his former pupil,
that evening, in the family circle; partly
perhaps with the memory of what a little
“try patience” he once had to put up with.


THE telegraph which daily announces
enormous failures, seems to admonish com-
mercial men of an approaching crisis, which
gives apprehenshions of no very pleasing
results; for under the present maladmini-
stration of Government officials, a rather
calamitous financial storm is pending,
which threatens destruction to many.


