Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in February)
Select Readings: Enos, Chapter 1; Mosiah, Chapters 1 to 5 inclusive.
Note the teachings on whatever subject.
THE HUMAN PERSONALITY
There is a singular thing in human nature: the far-away is usually more fascinating than the nearby. Astronomy was a science ages before the world ever heard of bacteriology. Distance nearly always, as the old saying has it, lends enchantment to the view. Theology is no exception to the rule here. People became curious to know of God centuries before they wanted to learn anything about themselves. And so, all down the ages, theologians, whether pagan or Christian, debated about the existence of God, his character, and his relations, if any, with mankind. Man came in but incidentally.
Jesus, however, talked about man. His religion was what the lover of big words calls "anthropocentric." In a simple phrase, man is the center of the religion of Jesus. Not what is God's relationship to man, but rather what is man's relationship to God?that was Christ's way of putting the matter. And the difference is striking. So, as a matter of fact, there is little in the four Gospels about God, but a great deal about man. Christ took God for granted. To talk overmuch about God and undermuch about man is to begin at the wrong end. The near-end is where we ought to begin the study of theology. That is where Jesus begins. And, singularly enough, that is where Joseph Smith begins, although, as we shall see presently, it was not where the emphasis was placed by his religious contemporaries.
Christian theologians generally, in the time of the Prophet Joseph, talked about God. They sought to know what he was like, what his qualities were, whether he was a Person or an omnipresent Something. Also they talked about hell, as we have seen. They tried to imagine just what kinds of punishment God would mete out to unrepentant sinners there. Moreover, they talked about angels. In the Middle Ages the greatest Christian philosophers debated most earnestly the question, how many angels could stand at one time on the point of a needle?as if that had anything whatever to do with religion.
But Joseph Smith, in his first utterances on the subject of religion?which were in the Book of Mormon?wrote about man rather than about God. The Nephite Record begins at the near-end of religion, and is therefore, like ancient Christianity, anthropocentric. Nephite writers take God for granted. They do not attempt to draw fine-spun distinctions between theological tweedle-dee and tweedle-dum. Their concern is about man. They want to settle the question, how is he to be saved in the Kingdom of God?
Herein is one of the most striking things about the Book of Mormon?that, in an age of theological hair-splitting about abstractions not connected directly with salvation, it should place the main emphasis on the study of man and how he was to be set on his feet spiritually. In this respect, the Record is almost a century ahead of its time, for only in recent years have leading Christians come to see that "the proper study of mankind (religiously) is man."
First of all, the Book of Mormon gives us a new definition of immortality. In the New Testament there are statements which go to show that man's life did not begin with this earth. Jesus said he was before Abraham (John 8:58), and the Beloved apostle states that the Master was "in the beginning with God" (John 1:1, 2). And, since Jesus is our Elder Brother, there is the inference that we all "were in the beginning with the Father." There are other passages to the same effect. But the doctrine of a pre-earth life for man is not clear enough to lead, in the average Christian mind, to its being announced as a doctrine, or article of faith. Besides, Christian thinkers pretty generally, believing that man is a poor worm of the earth and lower than the angels, did not dare draw out the inference, because they felt it would be more or less blasphemous to do so. Therefore they recoiled from the idea.
An incident from the life of the poet Wordsworth will show that this is actually the case. In 1803 he published his "Intimations of Immortality," in which the following stanza occurs:
"Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul that rises with us, our life's Star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home: Heaven lies about us in our infancy! Shades of the prison-house begin to close Upon the growing boy, But he beholds the light, and whence it flows, He sees it in his joy; The youth, who daily farther from the east Must travel, still is Nature's priest, And by the vision splendid Is on his way attended; At length the man perceives it die away, And fade into the light of common day."
Afterwards, when people had read the poem and wondered at this particular passage, Wordsworth deemed it advisable to deny the plain meaning of the words. He said: "Having in the poem regarded it as presumptive evidence of a prior state of existence, I think it right to protest against a conclusion, which has given pain to some good and pious persons, that I meant to inculcate such a belief. It is far too shadowy a notion to be recommended to faith, as more than an element in our instincts of immortality. But let us bear in mind that though the idea is not advanced in revelation there is nothing there to contradict it, and the fall of man presents an analogy in its favor."
This whole incident shows how utterly remote from the minds of Joseph Smith's contemporaries was any form of a pre-earth life for man. But the Book of Mormon boldly advances such an idea. True, it is done almost incidentally, if we may say so. But it is done, just the same. As a matter of fact, that is the way in which we get many religious truths in the Gospels. The passage is to be found in Ether, chapter 3. Moriancumr, the brother of Jared, has retired to a high mountain, for the purpose of inquiring of the Lord how the Jaredites are to have light in the ships in which they are to cross the sea. With him he has taken eight stones, which he proposes to ask the Lord to touch. And this the Lord does. In the act of doing so, however, Moriancumr sees God's finger. Thereupon he requests that the Lord "show himself" to him in his whole Person. Then this conversation occurs:
"And the Lord said unto him: Believest thou the words which I shall speak?
"And he answered, Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie.
"And when he had said these words, behold, the Lord showed himself unto him, and said: Because thou knowest these things, ye are redeemed from the fall; therefore I show myself unto you. Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. I am Jesus Christ. In me shall all mankind have light, and that eternally, even they who believe on my name; and they shall become my sons and my daughters.
"Never at any time have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image.
"This body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit, will I appear unto my people in the flesh."
The historian, Moroni, makes this comment on what he had just written: "Jesus showed himself unto this man in the spirit, even after the manner and in the likeness of the same body even as he showed himself unto the Nephites."
Two ideas stand out boldly in this remarkable passage. One is the form of our spiritual tabernacles; the other, the fact of our existence before this earth-life. Nowhere else in sacred literature, so far as we are aware, is the form of the human spirit spoken of. It has often been supposed, by advanced Christian thinkers, that it is in the same form as the fleshy body. The late Sir Conan Doyle believed so. But this, it appears, was the first time the doctrine was announced. In truth, however, revelation is the only source of any definite knowledge on the subject. For no man, "by searching," can find out the form of the human spirit, any more than he can learn anything about God. And this is an important thing to keep in mind.
As to the existence of the human spirit before its earthly life, only the fact is given here. If we wish to learn anything further on the point, we must go to other revelations to the Prophet Joseph. One of these revelations (Pearl of Great Price) tells us something in addition to the fact of the spirit's existence. (1) The spirits of men are the children of God and the brothers and sisters of Jesus Christ, as spirits. This explains the phrase in the Lord's Prayer, "Our Father, which art in Heaven." (2) The "plan of life and salvation" was laid in the pre-earth life?proposed by our Savior. The plan involved (a) the making of an earth for the spirits to dwell upon, (b) the assumption of tabernacles of flesh and blood, and (c) the fall of man and the atonement of Christ. (3) Man in his mortal state was to be allowed his "free agency," for otherwise he could not be held accountable for his acts or be capable of any real moral growth.
These ideas, it must be borne in mind, are not to be found in the Book of Mormon in this form, but are additions made by the modern prophet, through revelation. It is interesting to note that the idea of a pre-earth life has been grasped by some of the world's great thinkers since Joseph Smith's time. Whether or not there is a connection between their ideas and "Mormonism" does not, of course, appear. One of these is the Belgian philosopher Maeterlinck. Here is a passage from his book, Our Eternity.
"How shall we explain that, in that consciousness which ought to survive us, the infinity that precedes our birth has left no trace? Had we no consciousness in that infinity, or did we perchance lose it on coming into the world and did the catastrophe that produces the whole terror of death take place at the moment of our birth?
"None can deny that this infinity has the same rights over us as that which follows our decease. We are as much the children of the first as of the second; and we must of necessity have a part in both.
"If you maintain that you will always exist you are bound to admit that you have always existed; we cannot imagine the one without having to imagine the other. If nothing ends, nothing begins, for any such beginning will be the end of something."
This passage is not quoted in confirmation of what the Prophet Joseph has said, whether in the Book of Mormon or elsewhere, for that would be presumptuous in view of the fact that the Prophet had these matters revealed to him; but it is quoted for the reason that the idea of a previous state of existence finds an appeal to the class of thinkers. For the idea, as we have already said, is growing on the modern mind that reflects at all. Besides, this fact throws into bolder relief the forehandedness of Joseph Smith in the doctrines he advanced in religion.
This doctrine of a pre-earth life, together with the idea of a "plan" laid down in that state on the principle of human free agency, is one of the profoundest and most far-reaching religious conceptions ever revealed to man.
The Nephite Record, however, does more than reveal the fact of our pre-earth life and in what form. It traces the life of the spirit through its various stages of progress. First, there is, then, the spirit in its life before coming here to the fleshy body. Of the nature of that life in that "estate" we have said something already, and the reader who wishes to go into further details should consult the Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham, in the Pearl of Great Price.
Secondly, the spirit then enters upon its "second estate" on the earth. Just when the spirit enters into the fleshy body has never been revealed to us, so far as we know. There is an incident, however, in Third Nephi, chapter 1 (verses 11, 12, 13), where Jesus tells the prophet, "On the morrow come I into the world," in allusion to his birth in Palestine. And there, on the earth, the spirit lives in its body of flesh and blood for a season. Then he "dies," as we say. His body is buried in the ground. But what becomes of the spirit? Alma the Younger answers this question.
Thirdly, the "spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them life." Let us quote the entire passage, which is very illuminating:
"Now, concerning the state of the soul between death and the resurrection?behold, it has been made known unto me by an angel, that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from this mortal body, yea, the spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them life.
"And then it shall come to pass that the spirits of those who are righteous are received into a state of happiness, which is called Paradise?a state of rest, a state of peace, where they shall rest from all their troubles and from all care and sorrow. The spirits of the wicked, who are of the devil?for they have no part nor portion of the Spirit of the Lord; for they chose evil works rather than good; therefore the spirit of the devil did enter into them, and take possession of their house?these shall be cast into outer darkness; there shall be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and this because of their own iniquity.
"Now this is the state of the souls of the wicked, in darkness, and a state of awful, fearful looking, for the fiery indignation of the wrath of God upon them; thus they remain in this state, as well as the righteous in Paradise, until the time of their resurrection." (Alma 40:11-14.)
Fourthly, is the re-embodied state of the spirit. Alma, in some verses following the above quotation, is equally clear on this phase of life also. He says:
"There is a first resurrection, a resurrection of all those who have been, or who are, or who shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the dead. We do not suppose that this first resurrection can be the resurrection of the souls and their consignation to happiness or misery. Nay; but it meaneth the reuniting of the soul with the body, of those from the days of Adam down to the resurrection of Christ.
"Whether the souls and the bodies of those of whom has been spoken shall all be reunited at once, the wicked as well as the righteous, I do not say; let it suffice, that I say that they all come forth; or in other words, their resurrection cometh to pass before the resurrection of those who die after the resurrection of Christ.
"There is a space between death and the resurrection of the body, and a state of the soul in happiness or in misery until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth, and be reunited, both soul and body, and be brought to stand before God and be judged according to their works. The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul. Every limb and joint shall be restored to its body. Even a hair of the head shall not be lost, but all things shall be restored to their proper and perfect frame.
"Then shall the righteous shine forth in the kingdom of God. But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked; for they die as to things pertaining to righteousness; for they are unclean, and no unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God."
Questions
1. Why have men always been interested most in the things that are farthest away? Name some things remote to our daily lives that have given way to things that are of closer concern. What are some things that receive the greater emphasis nowadays?
2. What significance has the "recantation" of the poet Wordsworth as to the idea of a pre-earth life in his time? Just what idea is taught in the passage quoted from his "Ode"? How clear is this idea? Why are poets often compared with prophets?
3. State clearly the two ideas that stand out in the passage quoted from Ether. Compare them with that in the poet Wordsworth for clearness. Just what bearing have these two ideas on human conduct today?if any? That is, what difference does it make whether they are true or not?
4. Give the substance of what Alma says about the state between death and the resurrection, about the resurrection and after. Find some additional thoughts on the subject.
To the Youth of America
There is no agency in the world today that is so seriously affecting the health, efficiency, education, and character of boys and girls as the cigarette habit?Herbert Hoover.
Boys, through cigarettes, train with bad company. The cigarette drags them down.?Henry Ford, famous manufacturer.
Tobacco used in any form destroys a boy's ability to apply himself to study and prevents his comprehending or remembering his lessons.?Homer H. Seerley, beloved educator.
TEACHERS' TOPIC
Watchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be unto this house."
Text: Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. "This is the first and great commandment. "And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets."?Matthew 22:37-40.
What made Jesus utter these words? A lawyer asked the question that brought forth our text. And we find in St. Luke's version of the same, the lawyer, to justify himself, said unto Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?" In answer to this we have the beautiful story of "The Good Samaritan" found in Luke 10:30-37. After telling the way the man who fell among thieves was treated by the priest, the Levite and the Samaritan, the question is asked, "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves?" and the answer is, "He that showed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise."
This commandment is to us today the same as it was during the life of Christ. Annie Marion Maclean, in her book, "Our Neighbors," written in 1922, speaking of people of the United States, puts it thus: "We understand now, that from the many one strong nation has been molded; and we bow our heads in humility in recognition of the truth that we are members one of another, and if one member suffers, all the others suffer with it. Not even in order to justify ourselves, can we ever ask again, 'And who is my neighbor?'"
There is no organization of the Church does more for neighbors than the Relief Society. According to the minutes of the first meeting, March 17, 1842, Emma Smith said that the chief object of the Society was for charitable purposes. This is so today, and there is a proper way to do all things, and when any of us finds a person in need of any kind of assistance, financial or otherwise, she should report the same to no one except our Relief Society president, and she will take care of it for us. By doing this we can truly say we are being charitable. Are we not then loving the Lord with all our hearts, and loving our neighbors as ourselves? Relief Society work teaches us to do this every day.
Literature (Third Week in February)
GEORGE WASHINGTON
THE Washingtons sprang from a fine old English family, dating back to the Norman Conquest. Two brothers, Andrew and John, nephews of the First Lord of Sulgrave, came to Virginia in the year 1657. John was the grandfather of Augustine, so that makes of George Washington the third generation born on American soil. The story of George's birth at Bridge's Creek, Virginia, on February 22, 1732, of his mother's widowhood, of the simple life and training of this colonial youth, tall, athletic, bright-eyed and clear-headed, is a story mothers love to tell their children. It is the story of a boy's boy, a scout of scouts!
There are two people who influenced George's boyhood very powerfully. These were his mother, a high-souled, refined woman, and his elder half-brother, Lawrence, educated in England. Though there was a difference of fourteen years in the ages of the two brothers, a very strong bond of love and companionship existed. Lawrence was perhaps George's best teacher. The story of their life together is beautiful.
Land surveying was a very important art, and George became most proficient. This definite training was in evidence throughout his whole life, and his surveys still stand. During the years of Washington's early manhood, the French and English were engaged in the struggle for supremacy in the New World. Undoubtedly the most dangerous and important episode in Washington's life at this period was the task of carrying a message from Governor Dinwiddie of Virginia to the French Commander stationed near Lake Erie. This undertaking required great physical strength, moral energy, courage to cope with savages, and wisdom to negotiate with white men.
His experience in the French and Indian War was of immense value in service to his State, and later to the Nation. One story in connection with the Braddock Expedition is worthy of note. Years after, when Washington was President, an Indian called on him, and said that he was one of the chiefs who led the Indians against the white men. He and some other young "braves" had singled out Washington, as he made himself very conspicuous riding about the field with General Braddock's orders. They had killed horses under him, shot his hat off, bullets passed through his coat, but they could not strike his person, so they concluded that the "Great Spirit" was protecting him, and he could not be killed.
The letters which Washington wrote to his mother at this time indicate his great love for her, and the concern he felt for her anxiety over him. During the latter part of the campaign against the Indians and the French in the Ohio Valley, an important errand took him near to the home of an old friend, Mr. Chamberlayne, who claimed Washington for a guest. The young officer was so impatient to be on his way, that it was with difficulty that he was prevailed upon to stay for dinner. Among the guests was a young widow, Mrs. Martha Curtis. Her husband had been dead about three years, leaving her with a large fortune and two young children. She is described as having an agreeable countenance, and engaging manners so captivating in Southern women. Washington's heart was taken by storm?the afternoon passed like a dream. For once he loitered in the path of duty, and was not in the saddle until the next morning. His courtship was romantic, but brief, and the wedding took place at the close of the campaign.
Chapters could be written upon this happy union, and the comfort and sympathetic understanding Washington always found in his own home. A most noble nature himself, his attitude toward women could not be anything but the highest, due to the influence of his wonderful mother and his charming wife.
Washington's legislative experience began in the Virginia House of Burgesses, to which he was elected a member. Here he showed himself as a real man of affairs, and formulated many measures tending to improve conditions in his own state, notably the drainage of the Dismal Swamp District. His writings show this to be one of the happiest periods of his whole life.
When the war clouds of the Revolution began to gather, Washington, without hesitation, cast his lot with the colonies. He was chosen as a member of the Virginia delegation to the First Continental Congress. Patrick Henry, asked whom he considered the greatest man in congress. He replied, "If you speak of eloquence, Mr. Rutledge of South Carolina is by far the best orator, but if you speak of solid information and sound judgment, Colonel Washington is unquestionably the greatest man on the floor."
Washington was again a member from Virginia in the Second Continental Congress, which met in Philadelphia, May 10, 1775. One of the most important duties of this body, was the appointment of a Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army then assembled at Cambridge, Mass. The naming of George Washington to this post, his speech of acceptance, his journey to New England, without even a farewell visit to his beloved Mt. Vernon, are household stories.
On the morning of the 3rd of July, Washington appeared with his suite under a large elm tree at the northern end of the Cambridge Common, and while the forces were drawn up in line, he stepped forward, drew his sword, and assumed formal command of the army. When speaking of this in the House of Commons, Charles James Fox called Washington "That illustrious man before whom all borrowed greatness sinks into insignificance." Washington, the chief of a nation at arms presents one of the ablest military leaders in history. Napoleon called him a supreme master of military strategy. Upon the walls of Mt. Vernon hangs a sword, the gift of Frederick the Great to Washington, and the inscription above the sword reads "From the oldest General to the greatest General in the world." From Boston Washington's army moved, in a general way, toward Yorktown, and through all the tragic events of those eight long years, it was the magnificent soul, Washington, that always stood firm, devoted to his soldiers, true to his cause. The darkest days of the Revolution were the two winters from '76 to '78, the first in the Jersies, the second at Valley Forge. At this very time the infamous 'Conway Cabal" was formed, and Congress, with colossal stupidity ignored their 718 own commander, and all but betrayed him. Washington's character rises to its most sublime height in this hour of trial. He knew of all the ingratitude and treachery working against him, but he ignored it. At Yorktown there was an example of the finest pieces of chivalry on record. Turn back to that winter in the Jersies, when Cornwallis, and his well fed, well equipped forces were so boastingly triumphant, and referred to the suffering, starving American soldiers as the "ragged regimentals" and their leader as "the old fox." What a splendid triumph Washington could have taken at Yorktown, but with characteristic delicacy he ordered all mere spectators away from the scene of the capitulation, and carefully suppressed all signs of exultation, telling his soldiers that "posterity would huzzah for them." He did not insist, as he might have done, that Cornwallis appear in person. He arranged for the terms of surrender to be made from Cornwallis to Lafayette, feeling that it would be less humiliating for the titled Englishman to surrender to the titled Frenchman. When one appreciates the exquisite refinement of feeling manifest in this, it is no wonder that Lafayette should say of Washington, "Never did I behold so superb a man!" The final treaty closing the war, and acknowledging the Independence of America, was signed on the 3rd of September, 1783. The story of the departure of the English troops, the disbanding of the American army, are bits of history that touched Washington very closely. He was extremely careful in all things to safeguard the interest of the citizens and of the soldiers. His leave-taking of the Army, and the surrender of his commission to Congress RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, are among the most dramatic and inspiring events in history. Congress offered him a large sum of money, which he refused to accept, for Washington had served entirely without pay during the eight long years of the War, and he now desired nothing more than to return to his own home, where he arrived Christmas Eve, 1783. Following the disbanding of the army, and the signing of the treaty, is what is called "The Critical Period of American History." The form of Government that had held the States together when there was the pressure of external danger, was daily proving more and more incompetent to the purposes of a national government. Disorders arose in every quarter, and Congress was helpless. Washington observed this with great concern, and in reply to a letter from Colonel Henry Lee, in Congress, he wrote, "You speak, my good sir, of employing influence to appease the present tumults. I know not where that influence is to be found, or if attainable, that it would be a proper remedy for the disorders. Influence is not Government. Let us have a government by which our lives, liberties and properties will be secured or let us know the worst at once." Even in retirement Washington exercised a powerful influence on national affairs, and rendered most valuable service to his own state. He helped to develop the company which made the James and Potomac rivers navigable. In return for this Virginia gave him 150 shares of stock. He did not wish to accept the gift, but to avoid offending his friends he took the stock, but with the understanding that he would apply it to some public use. He later endowed two institutions of learning, one a college at Lexington LESSON DEPARTMENT Virginia, now known as the Washington Lee University. The other was later the George Washington University, at the capital. Troubles continued in and_ between the states, until finally Congress issued the call for the States to send delegates to the Constitutional Convention, which met in Philadelphia, May 25, 1787. Washington was averse to again appear in public life, but went with the Virginia delegation; at the meeting of the Convention he was unanimously chosen President. The first general election under the Constitution was held in January, 1789. A month later the electors met, and Washington was chosen to be the first President of the United States without one dissenting vote. In his "Life of Washington," Irving gives a most delightful description of Washington's first inauguration. His mother lived to see her son become the President. The soldier had now become the Statesman, and no other man ever lived who combined the two in so eminent a degree. The same master mind which had brought the Revolution to its successful and triumphant end, was now at the helm to guide the Ship of State past the rocks that threatened its destruction before it was fairly on its voyage. How well he did this was expressed by Fisher Ames, when he said that Washington had changed man's idea of political greatness. He believed firmly in the federal idea of government, which Bryce says, "is the greatest contribution of the Anglo Saxon race to the science of government." He believed in the rights and power of the States, but he declared we must have a central government, strong enough to ensure "respect abroad and security at home." When it came time for a second 719 election, Washington was again the unanimous choice. Under his faithful care an era of great prosperity began. The honor of the government had been sustained by a provision for the payment of its debts, confidence and order were established, commerce flourished. He saw and knew but one thing, the good of his fellow countrymen. His eight years as Chief Magistrate were, if possible, a greater service than his eight years command of her armies. No other man could have held together so many discordant interests until they had time to become harmonious. As his second term of office drew to a close, he was urged to accept a third term, but this he firmly declined. He issued his farewell address to the people of the United States September 17, 1796. This historic paper is so full of wisdom and sound statesmanship that it should be studied and remembered by every American in the land. Early in the Spring of 1797, he retired once more to Mt. Vernon, from which point he continued to be a source of inspiration and wisdom to his countrymen. Jefferson wrote to him, "The confidence of the whole nation centers in you." Nothing could have been simpler than Washington's home life, and tastes, but in his official positions, he upheld high standards. At all times his courtesy was genuine, and his hospitality unbounded. Washington did not believe in slavery, and at his death every negro whom he held in his own right received freedom, and he made a provision in his will for all those who from age, bodily infirmities or infancy could not support themselves. December, 1799, witnessed the passing of this greatest of Americans 720 , and the ' whole' world mourned! There is no other civic holiday that can have a broader and greater significance than the natal day of George Washington. At this, the Bicentennial of his birth, all men join in doing honor to one whose glorious deeds are above all others recorded in our Nation's history. His whole life was bound up in our National life. The battles he fought for our liberty, the victories he won for our independence, and the influence he wielded in the drafting and adopting of the Constitution, are but a part of the service he rendered. His sympathy with those | in every walk in life, his extensive knowledge of conditions as they existed in his own day, and his foresight of those yet to be, his unselfish devotion and his lofty patriotism are a part of our National heritage. The people today need the example and the teachings of Washington quite as much as the founders of our Republic needed his labors and his guidance. His exalted faith in God, and the strength that came to him from this faith, is an undying testimony that "the surest strength of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nations comes from the support of God's almighty arm." The planting of trees is a most beautiful and fitting expression of appreciation for Washington. He loved them. Trees are living memorials, like Washington's life, a blessing to all the land and people. Questions 1. Justify the statement?'Washington?first in war?first in peace ?first in the hearts of his countrymen. 2. Name three headings Washington's public service. 3. What specific evidence have we that he was a friend of higher education. 4. 'What was the most _ pronounced characteristic of Washington. 5. Give an example of his consideration for the feelings of others. 6. Why is the life of George Washington an inspiration to the whole world? 7. What was his attitude toward women? 8. Give your reasons for planting the Washington Memorial trees. LESSON DEPARTMENT 721 Social Service (Fourth Week in February) PERSONALITY STUDY: IMPROVING Our Habits. (Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pp. 159-168) Again let us grapple with an important problem in relation to making fundamental and lasting changes in persons?in ourselves and others. Even though some of these personality problems are difficult to work out in our lives they are tremendously interesting and worthwhile to those who have caught the vision opened up in part by our previous lessons. Of all tasks that confront us as people who profess to believe in eternal progress, none is more important than that of the enhancement of personality in the fundamental sense in which we are using this term. The task implies that we have been made to feel dissatisfied with ourselves and that we really want to improve our lives. It further implies a willingness to take ourselves in hand in whatever condition we may be and a determination to patiently and earnestly work to improve our habits. Much has been written to suggest just how to break old habits and to form new ones. We are, perhaps, already acquainted with the splendid articles on habit formation from the pen of Dean Milton Bennion which have been recently published in the Relief Society Magazine. The classic discussion by William James should also become familiar to us all. (See his volumes on psychology or liberal extracts from his famous chapter often quoted in books of reading in psychology.) Two of the best rather easy discussions of this subject are to be found in Swift's Psychology and the Day's Work, pages 84 to 122 and Robinson's Practical Psychology, pages 68 to 129, In character development we need to appreciate the importance of actual conduct that is properly motivated from within. Sometimes we seem to content ourselves with having children, for example, merely go through the outward motions of right conduct. Again we may think that the verbal concert repetition of slogans?"We stand for this or that" and other forms of "lip service" will take the place of more difficult habit-matters such as driving within the legal speed limit or actually observing the laws of health. Can it be that these things indicate not so much the unwillingness to put our good intentions into practice as a lack of knowing where and how to begin? The Great Teacher recognized these tendencies as well as the importance of habits consistent with our professed good desires for He said: "If any man will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine."' (John 7:17). "And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?" (Luke 6:46). "By their fruits ye shall know them." (Matt. 7 215-27.) Now let us come to closer quarters with our problem, considering briefly the nature of habits and then somewhat more fully how they are formed. Habits are acquired, automatic, and definite ways of responding to more or less specific situations. They resemble the so-called instincts except that they are not inherited but are developed as a result of 722 experience and training. They may represent on the one hand acquired appetites or desires such as the appetite for a certain drink or the taste for a certain kind of literature, and on the other hand they may be mainly skills such as skating, sewing, etc. Often we have combinations of these two classes or habits as in the case of a person with the desire for gambling and the skill to play cards. From another point of view we may classify habits as to whether or not they are predominantly physical, intellectual, moral, or religious in character. One's posture habits in standing, sitting, and walking might be considered as physical. Answering automatically "fifty-four" to the question, "What is six times nine?" is an intellectual habit. Being punctual in meeting appointments might properly be called a moral habit. Seeking divine guidance regularly through individual and family prayer is a religious habit. The reader can profitably supply other examples of each of these kinds of habits. It has been said that the foundation of good character lies in good habits. No other animal has anything like the wonderfully great possibilities of habit formation that man has. It is this plasticity in man's nature which makes it possible for him to adjust to new and changing environments and for him to make progress. At the same time habits when once formed may offer resistance to desirable new modes of thought and action. Thus we see that habits may either tend to enslave us or set us free. The great psychologist, James, said: "We must make automatic and habitual, as early as possible, as many useful actions as we can, and guard against the growing into ways RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that are likely to be disadvantageous to us, as we would guard against the plague. The more of the details of our daily life we can hand over to the effortless custody of automatism, the more our higher powers of mind will be set free for their own proper work. There is no: more miserable human being than one in whom nothing is habitual but indecision. Full half the time of such a man goes to the deciding, or regretting, of matters which ought to be so ingrained in him as practically not to exist for his consciousness at all." "The hell to be endured hereafter, of which theology tells, is no worse than the hell we make for ourselves in this world by habitually fashioning our characters in the wrong way. Could the young but realize how soon they will become mere walking bundles of habits, they would give more heed to their conduct while in the plastic state. We are spinning our own fates, good or evil, and never to be undone. Every smallest stroke of virtue or of vice leaves its ever-so little scar. The drunken Rip Van Winkle, in Jefferson's play, excuses himself for every fresh dereliction by saying, 'I won't count this time!' Well, he may not count it, and a kind Heaven may not count it, but it is being counted none the less. Down among his nerve cells and fibres, the molecules are_ counting it, registering and storing" it up to be used against him when. The next temptation comes. Nothing we ever do is, in strict scientific literalness, wiped out." We hear much these days about the importance of training the "will." | Psychologists, 'however, would prefer not to regard the "will" as "some mysterious power that comes suddenly into existence, making the action possible." LESSON DEPARTMENT Cameron, for example, says, "One cannot perform an entirely new act by sheer force of 'will'"' Try voluntarily to make use of the muscles for moving the scalp or ears and you will be unsuccessful to the extent that the capacity is not already present for doing these things. Cameron says, 'Training the will means, fundamentally, developing habits of action that conform to the best ideals of society." As we have seen, the "will" is powerless unless it has at its disposal modes of action with which it may work. It is true that in the interests of moral efficiency and integrity of character many of the situations in life call for automatic responses in action, judgment, and feeling. Since the cultivation of these is one of our present concerns we may well ask how best to form such habits. Three of the four classic rules given by James are often quoted in this connection. They are as follows: (1) "We must take care to launch ourselves with as strong and decided an initiative as possible. (2) Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. And (3) Seize the very first possible opportunity to act on every resolution you make, and on every emotional prompting you may experience in the direction of the habits you aspire to gain." Sample Problems For Discussion 1, Discuss why the personality problems we are now considering are more difficult than those we were concerned with in the first three lessons of this season's work. What makes these problems more especially interesting and worthwhile? 2. If possible get access to at least two of the discussions of habit formation mentioned in the third paragraph of this lesson and report 723 briefly, in say not over five minutes, what you regard as the best things you got out of these articles or chapters. 3. To be really good, habits must not only bring about desirable results or consequences for society, but they must also be expressive of proper individual intentions, attitudes, and dispositions. (See Matt. 5:8, 28; 15:8; 23:28; Mark 7:2123; Luke 15:17-19; 17:20-21; II Cor. 3:6.) Discuss these passages of scripture in relation to the above statement. How do you account for the fact that many so-called teachers of religion seem to content themselves with "running ecclesiastical or theological formulae through the child's language machinery?" 4. Explain as clearly as you can what habits are like. What different kinds of habits are there? 5. A well known lecturer recently gave the following rule for successfully establishing new habits: "Practice the desired new activity every time you think of it and stop before you get tired." Compare this with the rules given by James. 6. In what ways may habits be our servants and set us free so to speak? How may they enslave us or hinder our progress? Discuss fully. 7. (a) What is the value of retaining the ability to break habits? (b) Suppose that you had decided to break the habit of using slang. Describe just what steps you might take to make your resolution effective. 8. In the Doctrine and Covenants in a number of places it says in substance, "Say nothing but repentance to this generation." (See for example 11:9.) What do you make of this in relation to the present lesson? 9. Summarize the brief discussion 724 on how to break bad habits quoted in Poulson?Human Nature, pp. 80 to 83. 10. If the chapter on "Our Unconscious Fabrication Habits" in Overstreet was not adequately discussed last year some member might be assigned especially to read it in connection with the magazine discussion of it provided in the January 1931 issue, and give a five minute report of outstanding points brought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out. This chapter will not receive further consideration in the present series of lessons. 11. Find these phrases in Chapter IX of our text and comment briefly on each: "condition reflex," '"'most pleasurable association," "fine personality qualities," "permanent association-factors," "a place of interest and beauty," "ineffective mere admonition,"' "pleasurable responsibilities."
