The World Disarmament Conference By Blanche Kendall McKey
HOW bewilderingly contradictory is the world in which we live today! Discontent, unrest, social revolution with its accompaniment, hatred, nations actually at each other's throats, and yet the world is planning its first Disarmament conference. "Sardonic peace plans!" one is led to think. Yet the conference itself is evidence of a crystallized desire, on the part of many people at least, to turn from war, and the mass support accorded it from the different countries of the world adds to the swelling proof that people are beginning to think in terms of peace.
A Polyglot Disarmament Petition issued by the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom had obtained, nearly six months ago, a quarter of a million signatures from thirty-three British organizations. Twenty-four German and sixteen Swedish societies were not far behind. A World Disarmament caravan made up of members of the Woman's International League, headed by Mabel Vernon, former worker for the suffrage cause, made a tour of the United States from coast to coast soliciting signatures. At the close of the pilgrimage in early October thousands of petitions were presented to President Hoover.
The most optimistic cannot look upon current happenings and decide that the world is ready for peace. On the other hand, the most pessimistic cannot close his eyes to the significance of thousands of thoughtful citizens appealing to their respective Governments for reduced world armaments.
How slowly evolve great movements! 1914 saw the adoption of resolutions for world peace by the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. Woodrow Wilson's Eighteen Points were promoted in 1918. In 1920 came the League of Nations Covenant. The Multilateral Treaty for the Renunciation of War was signed in 1929. February 2, 1932, will see at Geneva the first World Disarmament conference. What the next international step along this line will be no one can definitely foresee.
May the conference in Geneva result in more friendly relations between nations and in the betterment of mankind by making possible the expenditure for constructive purposes of the millions upon millions of dollars now being lavished upon "defense."

