[Vol6 | August 1919 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson III Genealogy - Welsh Surnames]
GUIDE  LESSONS  491 
whole  house  of  Israel,  even  as  many  as  have  loved  me  and  kept 
my  commandments  and  none  else;  "For  a  trumpet  shall  sound, 
both  long  and  loud,  even  as  upon  Mt.  Sinai,  and  all  the  earth 
shall  quake,  and  they  shall  come  forth ;  yea,  even  the  dead  which 
died  in  me,  to  receive  a  crown  of  righteousness,  and  to  be  clothed 
upon,  even  as  I  am,  to  be  with  me,  that  we  may  be  one. 
"But  behold  I  say  unto  you,  that  before  this  great  day  .shall 
come,  the  sun  shall  be  darkened  and  the  moon  shall  be  turned 
into  blood,  and  the  stars  shall  fall  from  heaven,  and  there  shall 
be  greater  signs  in  heaven  above,  and  in  the  earth  beneath ; 
"And  there  shall  be  a  great  hail  storm  sent  forth  to  des- 
troy the  crops  of  the  earth ; 
"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  because  of  the  wickedness 
of  the  world,  that  I  will  take  vengeance  upon  the  wicked,  for 
they  will  not  repent,  for  the  cup  of  mine  indignation  is  full ;  for 
behold  my  blood  shall  not  cleanse  them,  if  they  hear  me  not." 
No  doubt  every  word  that  is  found  within  the  holy  script- 
ures, concerning  the  second  coming  of  Christ,  will  be  as  literally 
fulfilled  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  as  the  words  that  were  writ- 
ten concerning  his  first  coming. 
One  interesting  sidelight  on  the  vision  of  Nephi  concerning 
the  Virgin  Mary  was  given  by  the  lecturer  Mme.  Lydia  Von 
Finklestein  Mountford,  who  was  a  student  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
m.on.  "No  one,"  she  exclaimed,  "but  an  oriental  scholar  would 
know  that  the  Virgin  could  be  designated  by  her  costume.  It 
is  only  the  orientals  who  know  virgins,  wives,  widows  and  name- 
less women  by  their  dress." 
"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  saw  the  heavens  open ;  and  an 
angel  came  down  and  stood  before  me;  and  he  said  unto  me, 
Nephi,  what  beholdest  thou? 
"And  I  said  unto  him,  a  virgin,  most  beautiful  and  fair  above 
all  other  virgins."  — I  Nephi  11 :14-15. 
QUESTIONS  AND  PROBLEMS. 
1.  Shov/  how  prophecy  that  is  full  of  details  as  to  names 
and  places  would  be  impossible,  save  through  one  inspired  of 
the  Lord. 
2.  Show  how  prophecy-  in  detail  completely  upsets  the  argu- 
ments of  people  who  assert  that  prophecy  is  vague,  and  that  its 
meaning  may  be  met  in  several  ways. 
3.  Why  may  the  prophecies  concerning  Christ  as  recorded 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  be  regarded  as  a  veritable  biography? 
4.  Relate  some  prophecies  found  in  scripture  that  pertain 
to  the  Second  coming  of  Christ. 
5.  Have  some  member  of  the  class  read  section  45  of  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  beginning  with  paragraph  26 
and  including  paragraph  53.

492  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
6.  Are  any  of  these  prophecies,  concerning  Christ's  second 
coming,  already  fulfilled? 
LESSON  II. 
Work  and  Business. 
Second  Week  in  September. 
LESSON  III. 
Genealogy. 
Third  Week  in  September. 
WELSH  SURNAMES. 
Outlines  For  Class  Leader. 
Origin. 
Tribal  relations. 
Proper  names  followed  usual  customs.  Surnames  very  re- 
cent and  most  are  sirnames. 
Lesson  Statement. 
The  origin  of  the  Welsh  people  rests  in  the  mists  of  an- 
tiquity. They  are  a  branch  of  the  Keltic  race  and  in  some  char- 
acteristics they  resemble  the  Scotch  and  the  Irish,  but  while  they 
have  much  of  the  wit  which  is  common  to  the  Irish  race  it  is 
tempered  with  something  of  the  taciturnity  of  their  cousins,  the 
Highland  Scotch.  They  are  rather  a  silent  people,  not  boisterous 
like  the  Irish,  but  they  do  resemble  them  in  the  haughty  pride 
which  is  natural  to  a  Welshman,  while  no  one  is  so  clannish  as  are 
the  Welsh  people.. 
There  are  numerous  witty  stories  about  the  Welshman's 
ideas  concerning  the  antiquity  of  his  race  and  their  pride  of  birth. 
They  would  interpret  the  nursery  rhyme  to  read  "Paddy  was  a 
Welshman,  and  Paddy  was  a  Chief."  While  on  a  visit  to  England 
sometime  since  we  were  shown  a  very  long  Welsh  pedigree.  One- 
third  of  the  way  down  the  line  from  the  earliest  ancestors  was 
written:  "About  this  time  Father  Adam  was  born."  The  history 
of  the  Welsh  people  is  found  in  every  general  history  and  many  of 
our  Welsh  people  are  familiar  with  their  own  beginnings. 
The  custom  of  giving  children  proper  names  followed  closely 
that  of  surrounding  tribes  and  peoples.  When  Caesar  invaded 
Britain  he  found  a  people  governed  by  their  Druids  and  bards. 
The  Druids  were  the  priests  while  the  bards  were  poets  and 
genealogists.    The  bards  would  sit  for  hours  and  recite  over  the
