[Vol22 | October 1935 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Annie Wells]

By Annie Wells Cannon INDIAN Summer — nature bedecked, like an Oriental queen in jewels and richest fabrics, enchants her artist and poet lovers to pour out the adoration of their souls. MARIE JOSE LAVAL, charming daughter of the French premier, in becoming the bride of Count de Chambrun became a citizen of the United States as well as of France.
This is the only case of a woman being a citizen of two nations. All descendants of General Lafayette have honorary citizenship in the United States and according to French law the wife takes the nationality of her husband. MEXICAN women have been given the franchise and for the first time in Mexican history recently voted in municipal elections. EDNA MILLER RICH, new president of Hull House, was co-winner with Jane Addams of the Nobel peace prize in 1931. PARIS stylists are showing models of skirts for street wear shorter than since 1929, though the length is determined largely by the wearer. NANCY McKNIGHT, 103, of Michigan, gives as a recipe for longevity, "Never to eat cake or pie or go to the movies." Who wants to be 103 anyway? ESTHER W. STEPHENS, formerly of Utah, has been appointed state chairman of music of the California Federation of Women's Clubs, in appreciation of her fine work in local and district music circles. GALLI-CURCI while resting after her goitre operation believes she will soon thrill the world again with her golden voice, while Grace Moore and Gladys Swarthout recently returned from Europe are busily preparing for their appearance at Hollywood and the Metropolitan, respectively. LILY PONS, Metropolitan star, after her summer work on the film "Love Song" says she considers her opera, concert and radio days as vacations. JERITZA VIENESE, prima donna, was married last summer to R. Sheehan, film producer, at Santa Barbara mission. EVANGELINE LEHMAN, student at Fontainbleau, France, has composed a symphony based on the Mormon trek called "Journey's End." DOROTHY DICKSON broke the American record in swimming at Manhattan Beach this summer and Elizabeth Cowles of Cal. Set the record of mountain climbing by women when she reached the top of Teton Mountain, while two Russian girls made a new record in parachute jumping.
Each of them was given 15,000 rubles by the Russian government. CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN, at one time rated by Carrie Chapman Catt as the foremost woman in America for her advanced thought, died last summer at the home of her daughter in Pasadena, California. Teaching