[Vol22 | October 1935 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Leola Seely]

By Leola Seely NOT all girls are happy on entering college, but—they could be, said Nettie Neff Smart, Dean of Women of Brigham Young University, in a recent interview. And from her years of observation and personal acquaintance with the problems of hundreds of girls Dean Smart suggested a workable plan through which all girls might enter college in confident anticipation of a joyous new life.
What our girls need when they come to college is a broader and more secure foundation upon which to build the framework of the new lives they construct in college, Dean Smart believes.
They need more conviction and assurance in their judgments as they make adjustments to their new environment. As a project for the New Year, in anticipation of the entrance into colleges of hundreds of girls next fall, Dean Smart offered this brief outline of her practical plan: A Family Personnel Department, corresponding to the Personnel Department of the University, could be established in each home. Its purpose would be to become acquainted with all the little quirks and twists in the individual natures of its members that make each a different and interesting being, and to adjust everyone's quirks to fit everyone's twists congenially.
Father might be the head of the department with Mother as chief advisor.
Each of the children would hold a responsible office, for this is one small unit of investigation and group instruction.
Suppose we assign to Father the duty of studying the individual personalities in our family group.
Perhaps this week he can point out a few good points in each personality that we would do well to strengthen, and suggest a few really practical ways for improving the one or two qualities which are not so admirable that he finds among us.
Supplemented by a few simple rules formulated by Mother, telling us just what characteristics of personality will make us charming, well-bred, well loved girls, we have a summary of the individual personality of each of us to compare with the standard Mother puts up for attainment. For this week one of the girls, an older one, could consult a reliable source of information and find out in just what points college girls are negligent, and suggest a few items that all girls need to know when they enter a University. She will no doubt include such common rules as courtesy, consideration, honesty, reliability, responsibility. For this week it will be enough to discuss these first principles, courtesy and consideration. WHEN a girl comes to Brigham Young University, she finds a great many people willing and eager to help her to have a good time.
They demand, however, that she be a refined girl, that she not make herself unpleasantly conspicuous by loud talking and laughing on the campus or streets that she respect the rights of other girls with whom she lives.
Mothers who take girls into their homes as boarders or roomers expect those girls to be a happy addition to their homes.
Consideration of the wishes of these housemothers, adherence to the standards they set up for their own families, appreciation of the efforts of housemothers to make things comfortable and pleasant for the girls, stamp a girl as being refined.