[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Relief Society in Its Attitude to Dress and So]
86  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
"Dipping  water  out  of  the  ocean  in  the  hollow  of  his  hana 
he  sprinkled  some  water  on  America  with  his  right  hand,  while  he 
cast  some  upon  England  with  his  left.  Immediately  a  dark  cloud 
arose  from  each  of  these  countries,  and  joined  in  mid-ocean.  For 
a  while  it  remained  stationary,  and  then  moved  to  the  westward, 
until  it  enveloped  America  in  its  murky  folds.  Sharp  flashes  of 
lightning  now  gleamed  through  it  at  intervals,  and  I  heard  the 
smothered  groan  of  the  American  people. 
"A  second  time  the  angel  dipped  from  the  ocean,  and  sprin- 
kled it  out  as  before.  The  dark  cloud  was  then  drawn  to  the 
ocean,  into  whose  heaving  waves  it  sunk  from  view.  A  third 
time  I  heard  the  mysterious  voice  saying,  'Son  of  the  Republic, 
look  and  learn.' 
"I  cast  my  eyes  upon  America,  and  beheld  villages,  towns 
and  cities  springing  up  one  after  another,  until  the  whole  land 
from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific  was  dotted  with  them. 
"At  this  the  shadowy  angel  turned  his  face  southward,  and 
from  Africa  I  saw  an  ill-omened  spectre  approaching  our  land. 
It  flitted  slowly  and  heavily  over  every  village,  town  and  city  of 
the  latter,  the  inhabitants  of  which  set  themselves  in  battle  array, 
one  against  the  other.  As  I  continued  looking  I  saw  a  bright 
angel  on  whose  brow  rested  a  crown  of  light,  on  which  was  traced 
the  word  Union  bearing  the  American  flag,  which  he  placed  be- 
tween the  divided  nations,  and  said,  'Remember !  ye  are  brethren !' 
"Instantly  the  inhabitants,  casting  forth  their  weapons,  be- 
came friends  once  more  and  united  around  the  national  standard. 
And  again  I  heard  the  mysterious  voice,  'Son  of  the  Republic,  the 
second  part  is  passed — look  and  learn !' 
"And  I  beheld  the  villages  and  cities  of  America  increase  in 
size  and  number,  till  at  last  they  covered  all  the  land  from  the 
Atlantic  to  the  Pacific,  and  their  inhabitants  became  as  countless 
as  the  stars  in  heaven,  or  the  sand  upon  the  sea  shore. 
"And  again  I  heard  the  mysterious  voice  saying,  'Son  of  the 
Republic — the  end  of  a  century  cometh — look  and  learn.' 
"At  this  the  dark  and  shadowy  angel  placed  a  trumpet  to  his 
mouth  and  blew  three  distinct  blasts,  and  taking  water  from  the 
ocean,  sprinkled  it  out  upon  Europe,  Asia  and  Africa. 
"Then  my  eyes  looked  upon  a  fearful  scene !  From  each  of 
these  countries  arose  thick  black  clouds,  which  soon  joined  into 
one;  and  through  this  mass  gleamed  a  dark,  red  light,  by  which 
1  saw  hordes  of  armed  men  who,  moving  with  the  cloud,  marched 
by  land  and  sailed  by  the  sea  to  America,  which  country  was  pres- 
ently enveloped  in  the  volume  of  the  cloud.  And  I  dimly  saw 
these  vast  armies  devastate  the  whole  country,  and  pillage  and 
burn  the  villages,  cities  and  towns  which  I  had  beheld  springing 
up.    As  my  ear  listened  to  the  thundering  of  cannon,  clashing  of

GEORGE  WASHINGTON'S  VISION.  87 
swords,  and  shouts  and  cries  of  the  millions  in  mortal  combat,  I 
again  heard  the  mysterious  voice  saying — 'Son  of  the  Republic, 
look  and  learn.'  When  the  voice  ceased,  the  dark,  shadowy  angel 
placed  his  trumpet  once  more  to  his  mouth,  and  blew  a  long  and 
fearful  blast. 
"Instantly,  light,  as  from  a  thousand  suns,  shone  down  from 
above  me,  and  pierced  and  broke  into  fragments  the  dark  cloud 
which  enveloped  America.  At  the  same  moment  I  saw  the  angel 
upon  whose  forehead  still  shone  the  word  Union,  and  who  bore 
our  national  flag  in  one  hand,  and  a  sword  in  the  other,  descend 
from  heaven,  attended  by  legions  of  bright  spirits.  These  imme- 
diately joined  the  inhabitants  of  America,  who  seemed  to  take 
courage,  again  closed  up  their  ranks  and  renewed  the  battle. 
Again,  amid  the  fearful  noise  of  the  conflict,  I  heard  a  mysterious 
voice  saying, — 'Son  of  the  Republic,  look  and  learn.' 
"As  the  voice  ceased,  the  shadowy  angel,  for  the  last  time, 
(iipped  water  from  the  ocean  and  sprinkled  it  upon  America.  In- 
stantly the  dark  cloud  rolled  back,  together  with  the  armies  it  had 
brought,  leaving  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  victorious. 
"Then  once  more  I  beheld  the  villages,  towns  and  cities 
springing  up  where  they  had  been  before,  while  the  bright  angel, 
planting  the  azure  standard  he  had  brought  in  the  midst  of  them, 
cried  in  a  loud  voice  to_the  inhabitants — 'While  the  stars  remain 
and  the  heavens  send  down  dew  upon  the  earth,  so  long  shall  the 
Republic  last.' 
"And  taking  from  his  brow  the  crown,  on  which  blazed  the 
word  Union,  he  placed  it  upon  the  standard,  while  all  the  people, 
kneeling  down,  said  'Amen!' 
"The  scene  instantly  began  to  fade  and  dissolve ;  and  I  saw 
nothing  but  the  rising,  curling  white  vapor  I  had  first  beheld. 
This  also  disappearing,  I  found  myself  once  more  gazing  upon 
my  mysterious  visitor,  who  in  the  same  mysterious  voice  I  had 
heard  before,  said : 
"  'Son  of  the  Republic,  what  you  have  seen  is  thus  in- 
terpreted :  Three  perils  will  come  upon  the  Republic.  The  most 
fearful  is  the  second,  passing  which  the  whole  world  united  shall 
never  be  able  to  prevail  against  her.  Let  every  child  of  the  Re- 
public learn  to  live  for  his  God,  his  land  and  Union.' 
"With  these  words  the  figure  vanished.  I  started  from  my 
seat,  and  felt  that  I  had  been  shown  the  birth,  progress  and  destiny 
of  the  Republic  of  the  United  States.  Disunion  would  be  her 
destruction." 
Such,  my  friends,  were  the  words  I  heard  from  Washington's 
own  lips,  and  America  will  do  well  to  profit  by  them.  Let  her 
remember  that  in  Union  she  has  strength,  in  disunion  is  her  de- 
struction.

February  Entertainment. 
By  Morag. 
"We  gladly  indite  you  this  note,  and  invite  you 
On  Washington's  birthday  to  come 
And  join  in  a  hearty,  patriotic  party, 
With  friends  who  will  make  you  at  home." 
Signed,  Lottie  and  Ella  Arbor. 
The  boys  found  this  note  in  their  mail,  on  their  return  from 
school. 
"A  jolly  invitation,"  said  Ernest  Plackett  to  his  chum  and 
room-mate  Fred  Parker.    "Shall  we  go?"  he  continued. 
"Sure  we  will,"  returned  Fred.  "Mrs.  Arbor  is  the  lovliest 
mother  I  know,  and  makes  a  fellow  feel  right  at  home  at  once. 
My  mother  died  years  ago,  and  I  always  think  of  her  whenever 
1  see  Ella's  mother — while  Ella — she  is  such  a  jolly  girl  friend. 
Lottie  suits  me  O.  K.,"  said  Ernest,  "so  it's  settled,  we'll  go." 
The  Arbor  home  was  ablaze  with  light  and  flags,  as  the  boys 
left  the  suburban  car  and  took  the  short-cut  across  the  fiel  Is.  Ar- 
riving, they  were  welcomed  by  the  girls  and  introduced  to  the  as- 
sembled company.  Each  member  of  the  family  had  invited  one 
friend  and  they  were  all  busy.  Old  Major  Pursell,  a  civil  war 
veteran,  was  relating  some  of  his  experiences,  while  in  a  corner  his 
wife,  and  mother  Arbor,  were  reminding  each  other  of  the  happy 
days  when  they  were  girls. 
Mara  and  her  lover  John  Strange  were  sitting  on  the  broad 
\\  indow  seat.  Harold  was  busy  showing  his  collection  of  flags  to 
his  boy  chum,  while  Jim  and  baby  Lilian  romped  in  the  dining 
room  with  two  of  their  cousins.  Only  Charlie  seemed  alone — 
his  thoughts  were  far  away  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  where  a  fair- 
haired  maiden  was  engaged  in  missionary  work  along  with  her 
parents. 
"Cheer  up,  Chad.,"  said  the  lively  Jim.  "Nora  will  soon  come 
home.  You  know  her  father  expects  his  release  as  soon  as  school 
term  is  over,  and  then — " 
"Ah  then—"  sighed  Charlie. 
"Yes,  then,"  returned  Jim,  "it  will  be  welcome  parties,  an- 
nouncement affairs,  showers  and  a  wedding.  I'm  to  be  her 
bridesmaid,  too,"  Jim  continued,  throwing  back  her  curls,  "am  I 
not?" 
"Now.  children,"  said  father,  "our  entertainment  will  cor* 
mence."    And  in  a  short  fervent  prayer  Henry  Arbor  returned

FEBRUARY  ENTERTAINMENT.  «n 
thanks  to  the  gracious  Heavenly  Father  for  the  glorious  priv- 
ileges they  enjoyed  in  the  land  of  the  free,  and  for  the  inspired 
constitution  of  the  country,  and  for  the  great  men  who  labored 
and  died  to  bring  freedom  and  liberty  to  the  people. 
The  twins  then  played  some  patriotic  airs,  and  all  present  sang 
the  national  anthem. 
Major  Purcell  then  gave  reminiscences  of  the  war,  and  this 
was  followed  by  a  reading  by  Mara,  of  Lincoln's  favorite  poem, 
"Oh  why  should  the  Spirit  of  Mortal  be  Proud?"  written  by 
Knox. 
"It's  Ernest's  turn  now,"  said  Lottie,  with  a  coaxing  glance 
at  the  broad-shouldered  boy.  "Give  us  a  story,  Era.,  tell  us  that 
one  you  related  at  devotional  last  week  at  school,  'A  Perfect 
Tribute.'  " 
Thus  encouraged  the  boy  told  the  pathetic  story  of  the  great 
Lincoln  and  the  dying  soldier. 
"I  know  that  Gettysburg  speech,  too,"  remarked  Harold 
when  Ernest  concluded. 
"Tell  me  a  'tory,  muvver,"  lisped  baby  Lilian.  "There 
was  a  little  boy,  an'  his  fa'ver  had  a  cherry  tree,  and  he  cut  it  all 
down  wif  his  little  hatchet,"  she  said. 
"Bring  in  the  cherry  tree,"  cried  Jim.  and  a  large,  paper 
cherry  tree  was  brought  in  and  pinned  on  the  wall.  Each  one 
was  given  a  paper  hatchet,  and,  blindfolded,  tried  in  turn  to  chop 
it  down. 
A  number  of  other  games  followed,  interspread  with  patri- 
otic songs,  and  then  at  10:30  refreshments  were  served  consisting 
of  cherry  pie,  cake  and  sherbet. 
Raising  their  water  glasses  high  Mr.  Arbor  proposed  the 
following  toast : 
"Here's  to  the  tree  and  the  cherries  it  bore. 
Here's  to  the  hatchet  that  smote  it  full  sore. 
Here's  to  the  lad  that  was  honest  and  true, 
Here's  to  his  colors,  the  red,  white  and  blue. 
Here's  to  his  sword  with  the  laurel  entwined. 
Here's  to  the  hero  in  all  hearts  enshrined." 
— Washington, 
Arthur  Guiterman. 
Patriotic  Salad,  No.  I. 
Scoop  out  Jonathan  apples,  make  salad  of  chopped  celery, 
nuts  and  apples.  Serve  on  blue  plates  with  small,  white  paper 
doilies  in  the  red  apple  oups.