EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. JUNE, 1915. No. 6. THE BATTLE OF WILLS. The awful and destructive war now waging in Europe does not lessen with the passing of time. How inscrutable are the problems which politics, religion and the love of conquest, force upon the human mind! How bitter are the contests which arise over these vital forces in the universe about us! Men are tossed upon a raging sea of controversy, their minds having been anchored to some personal or interested rock of division, and woe to all who venture near the perilous storm center. War's Preliminaries. Battles can and do rage as the result of such contentions, the ties of friendship are broken, confidence is shattered, homes are destroyed, and the ravages of war and pestilence sweep over the contesting nations. War ? with ancient or modern implements? death, bleeding wounds, the scream of pain and the howl of revenge ? all these are awful to contemplate and still more terrible to endure. Actual War. Yet actual war is not so agonizing to bear, so cruel to contemplate, nor so destructive to all organized life, as is the battle of wills which precede sanguinary EDITORIAL. 291 conflicts, and which often take the place of more brutal engagements. Conflict of Wills. It is the conflict of opposing wills which sometimes exhausts mothers ? especially when the child is a strong male spirit ? and which renders some homes scenes of constant confusion and contention. The determination to prevail, at any cost, is both the strength and the weakness, the possible salvation, or the possible damnation of each human soul. The War in Heaven. There can be little doubt that the titanic conflict in heaven in which Lucifer led the warring third of heaven's sons, was fought, not with sticks and staves, nor with swords or guns, but with the superhuman will marshaled against divine will. Every trick and artifice, every subtle advantage or subtle device was used by the rebellious general who led the third part of heaven's hosts. And what was arrayed against this mighty army? Truth, calm, vigorous truth; reason and pure independence, which lost none of its virility because it was willingly obedient to God's will and plan. Rule or ruin, was the watchword of Lucifer ? these opposed sides strove, suffered, and the final triumph of justice and right was the bulwark of the divine soldiers and followers of Christ. How Long, O Lord, How Long? We who watch this European warfare, wonder how long it will wage, and just how it will terminate. If the issue be continued, the settlement deferred, those who love truth, order and justice, can well afford to wait till the right shall prevail. The spirit of war is surely poured out upon all nations ? our own country has partaken of the spirit of war and the battle of wills has been waging in national politics ? but who can foresee the outcome, nationally, and internationally? Only He who presides over the destinies of nations, and whose hosts are armed with justice and the preparation for peace. HISTORY NOTE. The stakes are to prepare a Stake History, which is, naturally, to be made up of ward histories ? the activities of each particular stake and the wards within that stake. The points noted in the circular letter sent out by the General Historian was only suggestive to stakes regarding points to be noted in their own work. Ward histories should be sent to stake historians; and a good ? not too lengthy ? resume of the stake history should be forwarded to the General Historian. Do not crowd this matter too much, friends and sisters, but be prompt about getting to work. 
 NEW BOOKS. Few men have done a greater service to this Church, than has the Church Assistant Historian, Andrew Jenson. Golden facts, silver threads of incidents, pearls of testimony and truth have been gathered from the dusty corners of forgotten things, and have been engraven on the tablets of imperishable history by this indefatigable worker. Two books have lately reached this office by this author; the new edition of the Church Chronology, and the second volume of Latter-day Saints Biographical Encyclopedia. The latter books contain the portraits and sketches of President Emmeline B. Wells, and most of the members of the General Board, together with hundreds of other sketches and pictures of good, faithful men and women, heroes and heroines of this Church. These books should be purchased by all Ward Relief Societies as a necessary part of their ward libraries. There seems to be some misapprehension in regard to the editorial in the May Magazine. It is not the purpose of the General Board to interfere in any way with the observance of Mother's Day. ALABASTER BOXES OF HUMAN SYMPATHY. Do not keep the alabaster boxes of your love and tenderness sealed up until your friends are dead. Fill their lives with sweetness. Speak approving, cheering words, while their ears can hear them, and while their hearts can be thrilled and made happier by them; the kind things you mean to say when they are gone, say before they go. The flowers you mean to send for their coffins, send to brighten and sweeten their homes before they leave them. If my friends have alabaster boxes laid away, full of fragrant perfumes of sympathy and affection, which they intend to break over my dead body, I would rather they would bring them out in my weary and troubled hours, and open them, that I may be refreshed and cheered by them while I need them. I would rather have a plain coffin without a flower, a funeral without a eulogy, than a life without the sweetness of love and sympathy. Let us learn to anoint our friends beforehand for their burial. Post-mortem kindness does not cheer the burdened spirit. Flowers on the coffin cast no fragrance backward over the weary way. ? Published in London by Partridge & Co. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II ? The Laying on of Hands. (a) The fourth principle of the gospel. (b) The Holy Ghost. (c) Baptism of the Spirit. (d) Baptism, a symbol of creation. (e) Fire and the Holy Ghost. QUESTIONS. 1. Who are eligible to the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost? Doc. and Cov. 35:5, 6; Doc. and Cov. 14:8. 2. What is the nature of the Holy Ghost? Doc. and Cov. 130:22. 3. What does Jesus say of the Holy Ghost? John 14:16, 26; John 16:7; John 15:26; John 7:39; Luke 12:12. The Laying On of Hands. ? The laying on of hands is the divinely-authorized method of administering spirit baptism, in other words, imparting the Holy Ghost. It is plainly taught in the scriptures. For instance: "Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost." "And when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money. "Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost." ? (Acts 8:17-19.) The laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost was an ordinance in the Christian church for centuries. The ordinance remained with the church much longer than did the Holy Ghost. Cyprian mentions it in the third century; Augustine in the fourth. Gradually, however, it began to be neglected, until finally some of the sects repudiated it, while others, retaining the "form of godliness," denied "the power thereof." 
 So much stress having been laid upon immersion, as the proper mode of baptism, one might be led to inquire, why are we not immersed in the Spirit, as well as in the water? I answer: How know you that we are not? To which the reply may be: We see the water, and are put under it by the priest; but when we are confirmed or baptized with the Spirit, the elders lay their hands upon our heads and say, "Receive ye the Holy Ghost." There is no immersion about that; we are not dipped or plunged: The Spirit is poured upon us. Be not too sure that there is no immersion about it. The fact that you do not see it is no conclusive argument against the proposition. We see the water because it is a temporal element; but spiritual things are discerned by the Spirit. As to the pouring process ? may not enough of an element be poured upon a person to bury him therein? Or must that in which a person is buried necessarily come from beneath? It was not so in the days of Noah, when it rained forty days and forty nights that the earth might be buried in water. As much water came from above as from beneath at that time. John the Baptist, when proclaiming the Christ, said: "There cometh One mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water; but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost" (Mark 1:7, 8). More than one baptism is here mentioned, but it is baptism in each case; and baptism signifies immersion. The candidate for baptism cannot well be dipped or plunged in the Spirit, since the Spirit is above, while the water is beneath; but he may be covered by or "clothed upon" with the Holy Ghost, nevertheless. The essential point in baptism is not the dipping or plunging, but the burying and bringing forth. Baptism, a Symbol of Creation. ? Baptism symbolizes creation. Earth, created for Adam and his seed, was baptized? "born again" ? for Noah and his posterity. Baptized with water in that day, it will yet be baptized with the Holy Ghost and with fire. The laying on of hands and the descent of the Spirit from above, may possibly typify the glorious baptism that earth will yet undergo, when the Spirit is poured out upon her from on high, and she is covered therewith as completely as with water in the days of Noah. "I will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh," said the Lord by the Prophet Joel (2:28). When that prophecy is fulfilled, earth will receive her spirit baptism, and in due time be ready for her baptism of fire. Fire and the Holy Ghost. ? God "dwells in eternal fire" (Joseph Smith's Teachings, p. 82), where no mortal could approach him unconsumed. But mortals may receive the Holy Ghost with safety. Again: the inhabitants of the telestial world receive the Holy Spirit through the ministrations of the terrestrial;