[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON PREVIEW]

LESSON PREVIEW?1941-42
stress the Latter-day Saint point of view. A regular textbook has not been chosen for this course of study, but reference to the books listed in the following general bibliography will be helpful:
GENERAL BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bigelow, W. F. (editor), Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, 1938. Brooks and Groves, Readings in the Family, J. B. Lippincott Co., Chicago, 1934. Burkhart, Roy A., From Friendship to Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1937. Folsom, J. K., Plan For Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt, New York, 1933. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C. Heath and Co., New York, 1935. Levy, John, and Monroe, Ruth, The Happy Family, A. A. Knopf, New York, 1938. Mowrer, E. A., Family Disorganization, The University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1932. Nimkoff, Meyer F., The Family, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1934. Phelps, William Lyon, Marriage, E. P. Dutton and Co., New York, 1940.
Popenoe, Paul, The Conservation of the Family, Williams, Baltimore, 1926. Rich, Margaret E., Family Life Today, Houghton, Mifflin Co., New York, 1928. Sait, U. B., New Horizons for the Family, The Macmillan Co., New York, 1938. Wieman, Regina (Hanson) Westcott, Modern Family and the Church, Harpers, New York, 1937.
We do not recommend the purchase of these books, but hope that class leaders may find access to some of them through libraries. As these books are not written by Latter-day Saint writers, the General Board of Relief Society does not necessarily endorse all statements or opinions in the books listed. Class leaders are advised to be alert to the many excellent articles appearing in current magazines and periodicals on this subject. Because of its popularity and success, we again recommend that the discussion method of lesson presentation be used in this department.
Mission Lessons
Latter-day Saint Hymns
(For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature)
THE lessons in literature for the missions during 1941-42 will consist of a study of the poetic qualities and great truths of the Gospel as found in eight of our Mormon hymns. Singing has ever been an integral part of the services of our Church. Just three months after the establishment of the Church, in June, 1830, a commandment was given to Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph, asking her to make a selection of sacred hymns for the Church. In that same section of the Doctrine and Covenants (Section 25), the Lord says, "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." The following eight hymns will be studied:
1. "The Morning Breaks, the Shadows Flee," words written by Parley P. Pratt (music by George Careless), is a poetic song telling of the bringing forth of the Gospel. It will always live in the hearts of Latter-day Saints.
2. "Oh, My Father," words written by Eliza R. Snow (music by Evan Stephens), pictures the sublime truth in Mormonism of an eternal home with a Heavenly Father and mother. It is the favorite hymn of many.
3. "The Spirit of God Like A Fire," words by William W. Phelps (writer of music unknown), may be called our "temple" hymn. It was sung at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, and has been featured at the dedicatory services of every temple built since that time.
4. "While of These Emblems We Partake," words by John Nicholson (music by S. McBurney), is a song we associate closely with the sacred rite of partaking of the sacrament.
5. "We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet," words by William Fowler (music by Caroline E. S. Norton), is sung in honor of the Presidents of our Church who are the Lord's prophets on earth.
6. "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother," words by Charles W. Penrose (music by Ebenezer Beesley), is a song which
 
carries a lesson for each of us and may, to our advantage, be read and sung often. 7. "True to the Faith," words and music by Evan Stephens, is a stirring song written for the youth of the Church. 8. "Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning," words by John Jaques (music by George Careless), foretells the dawning of the great Millennial Morn.
In a day of trouble and trial there comes great consolation through singing unto the Lord. In this connection we recall the comfort the Prophet Joseph received when, bowed down with grief in Carthage Jail, he requested John Taylor to sing him a hymn just a short time before the Martyrdom. We earnestly hope that any of our sisters who find themselves in distress will receive renewed faith and a determination to go ahead in the Lord's work through a heartfelt singing of the songs of Zion.
Note: For a further study of Latter-day Saint hymns not included in this course, we recommend Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper.
PRAYER FOR STRENGTH Grace Williams Porter
Lone on the rocky crag, a tree flings high Its gnarled limbs, stark against the livid sky; Stripped of its leaves by gales that wrench and maim, Scourged by hail's swift attack and lightning's flame; Scorched by fierce summer suns, low pressed with snow, It wrests from nature's force the strength to grow. With roots deep-sunk through stone to fertile sod, It lifts triumphant arms in praise to God.
Lord, I am lonely as that mountain tree, Weighted and bound by stern necessity. Life's storms in fury lash about my head? Oh, may my roots, by life's dark stresses fed, Sink deep through stones of doubt to faith's rich sod And make me strong?of Thine own image?God.
Relief Society General Conference, April 2, 1941
(Addresses of Elder