[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Social Welfare Department (Relief Society General Conference, April, 1941)]
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  28 
JUNE,  1941 
No.  6 
Today's  Need — Spiritual 
Awakening 
President  David  O.  McKay 
(Relief  Society  General  Conference,  April   3,   1941) 
THIS  large  audience  is  an  inspi- 
ration, and  to  address  it,  a 
great  responsibility.  I  was  just 
thinking  that  scarcely  a  century  has 
passed  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  or- 
ganized the  Relief  Society  in  Nau- 
voo.  Just  a  little  group  of  women 
assembled  on  that  occasion.  Only 
through  a  prophetic  eye  could  the 
Prophet  possibly  visualize  what  the 
Relief  Society  is  today  in  strength 
and  influence,  and  I  am  sure  very 
few  individuals  could  have  even 
imagined  it. 
I  am  happy  to  have  the  privilege 
of  meeting  with  you  this  afternoon 
if  for  no  other  reason  than  just  to 
partake  of  the  inspiration  of  this 
gathering  and  to  hear  the  inspired 
singing  from  the  Weber  County 
Singing  Mothers.  It  is  a  privilege 
just  to  be  here. 
I  am  in  hearty  sympathy  with  the 
ijim  of  the  General  Board  to  increase 
the  membership  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety, and  I  sincerely  trust  that  you 
will  all  unite  with  them  in  making 
the  membership  by  the  end  of  this 
year  100,000.  There  is  a  potential 
membership  of  over  170,000.    I  ex- 
press that  wish  and  give  that  ad- 
monition not  merely  that  you  might 
have  a  larger  membership,  but  be- 
cause I  know  that  the  Relief  Society 
is  one  of  the  most  potential  factors 
in  the  Church  for  spiritual  influence. 
I  will  not  say  that  I  have  not  in- 
herited that  thought,  for  as  a  boy  I 
have  heard  my  revered  father  say 
that  if  it  were  a  question  of  educat- 
ing either  the  boys  or  the  girls,  he 
would  educate  the  girls,  because 
they  would  influence  their  families 
in  the  home.  I  am  a  firm  believer 
in  the  statement  that  ''the  mother 
makes  us  most."  Now  with  these 
few  thoughts  in  mind,  I  submit  to 
you  the  importance  of  increasing 
the  membership  of  this  very  potent 
organization  in  the  Church.  I  com- 
mend Sister  Lyman,  her  counselors, 
and  the  members  of  the  Board  upon 
their  efforts  to  extend  the  influence 
of  the  Relief  Society  into  more 
homes. 
When  Sister  Lyman  invited  me 
to  be  present  on  this  occasion,  I 
asked  if  she  would  not  submit  some 
topic.  In  reply  she  submitted  sev- 
eral, one  of  which  she  has  already 
Page   363

364 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE,  1941 
announced.  Introductory  to  that, 
I  would  like  to  read  two  quotations. 
One  is  from  John  Pierpont  who  pays 
his  mother  this  tribute: 
"She  led  me  first  to  God; 
Her   words   and   prayers  were  my   young 
spirit's  dew — 
For  when  she  us'd  to  leave 
The  fireside  every  eve, 
I  knew  it  was  for  prayer  that  she  withdrew. 
How  often  has  the  thought 
Of  my  mourn'd  mother  brought 
Peace  to  my  troubled  spirit,  and  new  power 
The  tempter  to  repel! 
Mother,  thou  knowest  well 
That  thou  hast  bless'd  me  since  my  natal 
hour." 
In  anticipation  of  what  I  would 
say  to  you,  I  have  had  in  mind  the 
thought  that  any  spiritual  awaken- 
ing throughout  this  Church  will 
have  its  source  largely  in  the  home, 
where  the  mother's  influence  is  most 
potent. 
The  other  quotation  deals  with 
two  courses  of  life.  Again  I  think 
they  are  fundamental,  and  I  won- 
der why  the  world  does  not  see  that 
the  success,  the  happiness,  and  the 
peace  of  mankind  depend  upon  the 
statement  made  in  these  two  verses. 
I  quote  from  Paul:  'Tor  to  be  car- 
nally minded  is  death;  but  to  be 
spiritually  minded  is  life  and  peace." 
To  awaken  spirituality  in  the 
hearts  of  men  and  women  has  been 
the  Lord's  purpose  since  He  de- 
clared: ''By  the  sweat  of  thy  brow, 
thou  shalt  earn  thy  bread."  Through- 
out the  ages  man  has  had  his  choice 
of  making  the  aim  of  his  life  either 
spirituality  or  sensuality;  spirituality 
or  temporality;  spirituality  or  intel- 
lectuality. Now  I  do  not  wish  to  im- 
ply that  spirituality  and  intellectual- 
ity may  not  exist  in  the  same  person, 
they  may— also  temporality  and  spir- 
ituality, but  not  sensuality  and  spir- 
ituality.    But  man   usually  centers 
his  thought  and  action  upon  one  or 
the  other.  The  subject  suggested, 
that  the  greatest  need  today  in  this 
world  is  spiritual  awakening,  implies 
that  spirituality  should  be  the  up- 
permost thought  in  our  minds. 
Only  through  spiritual  awakening 
has  man  made  progress  in  his  slow, 
continuous,  upward  climb  since  the 
divine  edict  "multiply  and  replenish 
the  earth."  The  only  thing  which 
places  man  above  the  beasts  of  the 
field  is  his  possession  of  spiritual 
gifts.  Superior  intellectuality  with- 
out spiritual  virtues  may  tend  only 
to  make  men  more  beastlike. 
Man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a 
test  as  to  whether  he  will  concen- 
trate his  efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul 
upon  things  which  contribute  to  the 
comfort  and  gratification  of  his  phys- 
ical instincts  and  passions,  or  wheth- 
er he  will  make  as  his  life's  end  and 
purpose  the  acquisition  of  spiritual 
qualities. 
''The  thing  a  man  does  practically 
lay  to  heart,"  says  Carlyle,  "and 
know  for  certain  concerning  his  vital 
relations  to  this  mysterious  Uni- 
verse, and  his  duty  and  destiny 
there,  that  is  in  all  cases  the  primary 
thing  for  him,  and  creatively  deter- 
mines all  the  rest.  .  .  .  And,  I  say, 
if  you  tell  me  what  that  is,  you  tell 
me  to  a  very  great  extent  what  the 
man  is,  what  the  kind  of  things  he 
will  do  is."  That  philosopher  never 
spoke  anything  nearer  the  truth. 
Now,  sisters,  I  ask  you  to  imagine 
what  condition  man  would  have 
been  in  if  God  had  never  revealed 
Himself  to  man.  Just  imagine  man 
placed  here  with  his  knowledge 
taken  away  from  him;  that  is,  his 
memory  of  his  pre-existent  state.  If 
the  Lord  had  not  revealed  Him- 
self, I  have  no  idea  of  what  would

TODAY'S  NEED— SPIRITUAL  AWAKENING  365 
have  happened.  The  saving  of  his  paid  his  devotion  to  Deity  in  ac- 
Hfe,  and  the  perpetuation  of  his  spe-  cordance  with  the  command  of  the 
cies  would  be  his  sole  aim;  indeed,  Lord.  The  other  failed  to  do  it  be- 
there  would  be  nothing  else  to  live  cause  his  heart  was  centered  upon 
for.  When  he  got  thirsty,  the  water  the  things  of  the  earth.  As  a  con- 
would  quench  his  thirst;  when  he  sequence  he  became  grasping  and 
became  hungry,  the  fruits  of  the  field  selfish  and  murderous.  He  choked 
would  satisfy  his  hunger.  He  would  his  soul  with  greed.  He  stifled  his 
feel  the  warmth  of  the  sun  by  day;  spirituality.  He  became  jealous  and 
leaves  and  reeds  would  make  him  envious,  and  finally  murdered  his 
a  comfortable  bed  at  night.    Skins  brother. 
of  animals  would  keep  him  warm.  In  that  simple  account  of  Cain 
When  another  man  would  come  to  and  Abel  we  find  the  story  of  the 
rob  him,  or  try  to  seize  from  him  race.  The  man  who  sets  his  heart 
a  luscious  piece  of  venison,  or  some  upon  the  things  of  the  world,  who 
fruit  which  he  had  collected  from  does  not  hesitate  to  cheat  a  brother, 
the  tree,  a  fight  would  ensue.    The  who  will  lie  for  gain,  who  will  steal 
gratification  of  appetite  and  passion  from  his  neighbor,  or  who,  by  slan- 
would  be  man's  sole  aim,  and  thus,  der,  will  rob  another  of  his  reputa- 
as   the   Book   oi  Mormon   plainly  tion,  lives  on  a  low,  animal  plane  of 
states,  man  became  ''carnal,  sensual,  existence,  and  either  stifles  his  spir- 
and  devilish  by  nature.''    In  a  word,  ituality  or  permits  it  to  lie  dormant, 
he  would  be  just  an  animal.  To  be  thus  carnally  minded  is  death. 
The  Lord    anticipating    this,  re-  No  truer  word  was  ever  spoken  or 
vealed  Himself  to  man  and  gave  the  written. 
Gospel  Plan.  In  order  to  assist  man  On  the  other  hand,  the  man  who 
to  rise  above  the  earth  and  earthly  tills  the  soil,  garners  his  fruit,  in- 
things,  and  to  keep  his  heart  from  creases  his  flocks  and  his  herds,  hav- 
being  centered  upon  them,  the  Lord  ing  in  mind  making  better  the  world 
suggested  or,  indeed,  commanded  in  which  he  lives,  desiring  to  con- 
man  to  take  of  the  ''firstlings  of  the  tribute  to  the  happiness  of  his  fel- 
flock"  and  offer  them  as  a  sacrifice  lows,  and  who  does  all  things  for 
to  God.  Have  you  ever  thought  of  the  glory  of  God,  will,  to  the  extent 
it?  The  best,  which  ordinarily  would  that  he  denies  himself  for  these 
be  for  self,  must  be  given  to  a  higher  ideals,  develop  his  spirituality.  In- 
power— the  first  step  in  spiritual  up-  deed,  only  to  the  extent  that  he  does 
lift.  When  man  thus  denied  him-  this  will  he  rise  above  the  plane  of 
self,  and  conquered  his  physical  ap-  the  animal  world.  Commenting  up- 
petite,  and  paid  reverence  to  some-  on  this,  Rudolph  Eucken  gives  the 
one  higher  than  himself,  he  ap-  following:  "I  cannot  conceive  of  the 
proached  nearer  his  Maker— there  development  of  a  powerful  person- 
was  a  spiritual  awakening.  ality,  a  deep-rooted  and  profound 
mind,  of  a  character    rising    above 
Two  Ways  of  Life  this  world,  without  his  having  ex- 
There  is  a  most  significant  story  perienced  a  divinity  in  life  above, 
of  two  boys— one  who  heeded  God's  beyond  the  world  of  sensible  reality, 
commandment,  and  off^ered  sacrifice,  and  as  surely  as  we  can  create  in