[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: ANNUAL REPORT]
ANNUAL REPORT?1940
Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Members, December 31, 1940
Location Stakes Missions Total
United States
was assigned a definite day on which to bring a certain number of patients to the hospital for operations. We had thirty-seven operations performed in the Lovell Hos. Pital. In one of our branches, fifty miles distant, there were three other people who needed care very badly, and the physician in that vicinity, although not a member of our Church, was very cooperative. He performed these operations at a reduced price after hearing of our stake project.
This made a total of forty tonsillectomies. As a result of the clinic, which was also held as planned, there were over one hundred inoculations for diphtheria and over one hundred vaccinations for smallpox.
This service was paid for by the individuals, but it was given at a ? reduced rate. The stake Relief Society president and the physicians were the only ones who had any idea of the amounts charged for the operations. We felt it best to keep it just as quiet as possible. The board members did not even know?just the president. 'The doctors appreciated the confidence in which this infor- SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT mation was held. In all of our work we have found it best that very few know just who receives aid. In regard to these tonsillectomies, nobody knew just who was being helped, and we feel that has been a good condition, and it encourages others who really need aid. In one of our large wards there were so many needing care that we decided to ask the bishop for assist- 423 ance. Ec suggested that we go to the stake president and ask him for support in such an extensive project.
This was done, and as a result, $100 was added to the Relief Society funds. We surely appreciated this as it made it possible for all who had been solicited to be cared for. We feel that a very worthy project was completed, and many are now enjoying better health as a result. > )?> Cooperation with Community Agencies in Flealth Work Eva G. Gillespie President, Sharon Stake Relicf Society HEY say necessity is the mother of invention. We had very few funds with which to carry on, and we saw so much need among the children of our stake that we naturally turned to the first lesson in social welfare?contact community agencies.
Through the cooperation of our public-health nurse, we started wellbaby conferences nearly three years ago. We planned to hold them monthly, but the response was so great that we have held them twice monthly, and sometimes three times. 'These well-baby conferences are for children under six years of age. In our stake we have 789 children under six years of age, of whom 437 are registered at the conference, 391 have been protected against smallpox, and 431 against diphtheria.
Protecting the infant against these diseases before he reaches one year of age assures a higher degree of immunity for the child, and less severe reaction from the immunization.
Although the maternal and child-health program conducted by the State Board of Health is' primarily for rural communities only, a government survey indicates that the entire State of Utah is considered rural with the exception of Salt Lake City, Ogden, and Provo.
Federal funds are available to the state on a matching basis to carry out this work. A reliable doctor is employed and paid for by the state, and the nurse gives her time from her regular work. The other women, those who act as hostesses, those who take temperatures, weigh and measure the children and otherwise assist at these conferences, are volunteer Relief Society women. <A thorough examination is given each child by the doctor, and advice given to the mother on the child's care. We find that these conferences are helping the mothers just as much as the children. 424
Corrective work is not done at these conferences, and so where the doctor finds corrective work necessary, with the assistance of the public-health nurse we follow up cases and use our funds for this purpose. Our public-health nurse spends over one-fourth of her time in visiting families, so who is in a better position to know the conditions in the home? We receive fine cooperation from our county commissioners.
They matched the amount we paid out for nearly all tonsil and eye cases.
Once each year, and sometimes twice, my counselor and I meet with our county commissioners, and they are certainly a fine group of men. We explain to them some of our problems in connection with corrective work, and point out that through theumatism the children's hearts and other organs are being affected, and they have always tresponded very well. We never draw the line on whether the children are from Latter-day Saint families or not, as we are working for the good of the community.
When the doctor sends the bill, I approve it and attach a little written history of the case, then send it to our commissioner, and he has always paid half of the charge of the corrective work. In some communities typhoid vaccine is also furnished by the state for everyone free of charge, and where necessity arises it can be secured by any section. "This also applies to pneumonia serum and drugs for venereal disease. If we cannot get a physician to administer these things free of charge to indigent or borderline cases, we can contact the county physician and have it done. The Red Cross has been another  source of help to us, and at present we have a class of forty-eight women in our stake taking the home nursing course, with our public-health nurse as instructor. She takes the time from her regular work to give these instructions. Our __ public-health nurse helps in teaching a class for expectant mothers at our Utah Valley Hospital, and we are urging every young mother to take advantage of this fine course.
Then we have our Lions Club, the American Legion, and different' business-men's clubs. If we acquaint them with some of our health problems they are very willing to assist. We also have a Chamber of Commerce in our little town of Orem, which assists us in our health work. In the past year we have had thirty tonsil cases taken care of, eight severe dental cases, two maternity cases, and five eye corrections, and as we have only a small wheat interest fund to draw from, you can see it would not go very far in paying these bills.
Although our schools have a preventive health program and in our district two grades in each school receive complete dental care each year, and all children receive a medical examination, they have no funds for other corrective work.
Last year they did a little experimental work in our case, and advanced a small amount which the community matched through sponsoring a picture show, and through dime donations from the children in our four schools. We are not anticipating this help for the coming year, as they can continue only the preventive program from their budget. Our records do not show very many cases taken care of, but we are instrumental in having numerous SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT cases taken care of through.
Other agencies. 'lhe Crippled Children's Service?another government agency ?the Tuberculosis Association, and the outpatient department of our Utah Valley Hospital have taken care of many cases without any cost to us, when referred to them after our investigation has found it is necessary. We also work in close cooperation with our county welfare workers, and have succeeded in having several operations and maternity cases hospitalized by them, with the Church, through the bishoprics, paying but 425 a small part.
When we take care of maternity cases, our funds have stretched further by having the women cared for in the homes of the several fine women in our stake with sufficient training to care for these patients. 'The patients have appreciated it so much that we recommend this in our stake. It also helps the women who care for them, because in most cases they are widows and need the extra income. Our aim is to promote health and prevent disease, and if we work through our children, we are making a better generation to carry on. La he he A MID-SUMMER PEACE By Celia Van Cott Such beauty, Lord, holds fast my heart this hour When long grey shadows cling to earth's green breast,.
When summer's sun through heaven's unseen power Sinks slowly down behind the mountain crest; When leaf plumes brush the sky and evening's breeze Stirs mint-twined grass along the cooling stream; When twilight sifts a purple haze through trees To shuttle out the last of day's bright beam. There's fragile loveliness upon earth's face When day is stilled and night creeps down the sky?
Soon quietude shall settle on this place And all things rest or sleep in peace, while I With heart attuned shall wait through moon-mist night To see dawn break in crystal splints of light. Annual Report?1940
Presented at Relief Society General Conference, Officers' Meeting, April 2, 1941
Vera White PohIman, General Secretary-Treasurer IRST, I shall make reference to those figures showing changes from 1939 which reflect to some extent the effect of procedural changes recommended by the General Board last year. 'The number of meetings held in the wards decreased slightly (220) to 71,117, as a result of the change in the educational year from nine to eight months, announced in April, 1940. The full effect of the change will not be apparent until the 1941 report is compiled, for the reason that it was previously optional with stakes as to whether their educational work began in September and ended in May, or began in October and ended in June.
Only those which formerly began in September account for the decrease in this year's report. The number of stake board meetings also declined in 1940, being reduced by 151 or 6 percent, to 2,315,.
Probably as a result of the recommendation made last October that stake board meetings be limited to two meetings a month. The effect of this recommendation will also be more evident in the 1941 report, since it could be applied last year only to the fourth quarter of the year. 'hese steps toward simplification, in accordance with the advice of the General Authorities, while resulting in only a few hundred less meetings during the fourth quarter of the year 1940, nevertheless relieved thousands of women for several afternoons, and will have an Page 426 even greater aggregate effect during the remaining five months of the 1940-41 season which were not included in the 1940 report.
