[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Fiction]
fiction, we did not care, because we were going to see Hamlet played in the courtyard of the actual castle where the scene was laid.
When we had found our seats, we sat there with an unusually appreciative audience—waiting quietly, almost reverently, for the play to begin. As the curtains drew apart, only the sound of the actors' voices was heard, accompanied by the gentle flapping of the banners as the breeze blew in from the Sound. Spellbound?
There isn't a word to describe how we were carried back centuries by the real tears in the eyes of Hamlet as he mourned his father's death, the perplexity of the gentle Ophelia, "To be or not to be," "Alas, poor you," "Sweets to the sweet."
Those familiar phrases spoken in beautiful accents will remain forever in my memory connected with one of the highlights of my life.
After the last curtain call when John Gielgud and Fay Compton smiled graciously and disappeared, we took the path back to the city along the battlements upon which "The majesty of buried Denmark Did sometimes march." And it was not difficult to imagine that we might meet the ghost of Hamlet's father if we were there at the right time. CYCLING IN DENMARK. Hillerod Early the next morning we soon found ourselves in the small town of Hillerod from whose main street one of the loveliest sights in the world can be seen. There "'like a water lily floating," to quote Humbert Wolfe, in the middle of a lake is Frederiksborg Castle, its rose-colored brick towers and walls silhouetted against the trees of the formal garden. On the opposite shore is a picture never to be forgotten. It is hard to believe that anyone could live in such a gorgeous setting and be unhappy. But as we walked through the beautiful rooms and corridors furnished during the Renaissance in Gobelin tapestries and carving, we could not help remembering the pathetic story of Caroline Matilde, Queen of Denmark and Norway, Princess of Great Britain and Ireland. The story ot this Queen (sister to King George IV of England) as the young bride of an imbecile King has been used by novelists and motion picture writers, but these portrayals are no more poignant than the real story. Faarevejle T'wo days later we were nearing the little town of Faarevejle. We had seen the white and red country church with the typical Corbie stepped gable from a distance and knew that past history awaited us there. The caretaker led us inside the church which had been standing since the twelfth century and had been built by Valdemar the Great.
Just before the altar our guide rolled back the rug and lifted a trap door. We went backwards down the. Ladder-like steps into a small room. At one side stood a coffin.
There under 391 a piece of glass lay the Duke of Bothwell, husband and lover of Mary Queen of Scots! A long man he was, and there on his head are the scars of the wounds inflicted by a sword. It was difficult to comprehend that we were actually looking at the remains of one who had played a significant role in the history of England and Scotland. We were glad to find our way out to the sunlight again. 'There the caretaker pointed the way to Dragsholm Castle, where the impetuous Duke spent the last five years of his life in solitary confinement. Homeward Bound After our visit to the castle, we turned our wheels again toward Copenhagen, past waving fields of grain, turning windmills, white thatched cottages with the neatest yards and prettiest flower gardens in the world. As the tower of Copenhagen appeared on the horizon, perhaps we pedaled a bit faster, for as the Danes say, "Ude er godt, men Hjem er bedst," meaning that it is nice to go away, but "there is no place like home." As we placed our cycles in their customary places in the backyard, we felt as if we were © rolling up the magic rug which had carried us over a land of beauty back into a past rich in story. As I write this (April, 1941) from my home safe in the "land of the free and the home of the brave," I am.
Wondering if I will ever see the lovely land of Denmark again. One of my fondest wishes is that I may again explore more of the intriguing paths marked "Cycle Sti." Note: Courtesy, The Anchora of Delta Gamma. Let's Make It A Reading Summer Marba C. Josephson Associate Editor, Improvement Era WOMEN should plan to give themselves a mental prod every once in a while. The summer is the ideal time to do this, for it provides the necessary amount of desire with the minimum of effort.
Fires don't need to be stoked constantly; the children don't need to be hurried off to school; and cooking with fresh fruits and vegetables becomes a relatively simple matter. The matter of selecting the books, however, becomes quite a large order, for there are in the United States alone over thirty-one books published daily.
When one stops to think of the 11,328 titles which are being issued yearly, one begins to realize the difficulty of selecting the best books. It stands to reason that some exceptionally good books will be slighted merely because of the physical inability to become acquainted with all of them.
Here are a few that will compensate for the time spent with them —and will be pleasurable reading at the same time. CARAVAN FOR CHINA by Frank S.
Stuart is an entirely different kind of book.
Within its covers are bound mystery, romance, travel, intrigue, adventure, commerce, and religion.
Woven from two truly magnificent civilizations, it includes the Roman Empire of Tiberius Caesar when Jesus was just teaching through the dusty hills of Syria, and it introduces the China of ancient legend and great repute. All these divergent interests and countries are synchronized through Page 392 the love of Simon of Cyrene for Helen, who had been sold into slavery, and eventually carried to China where the empress had purchased her. The long trek of Black Simon across almost uncharted deserts, his final rescue of Helen only to be treacherously betrayed are told fascinatingly by the author, who has rare ability to use the English language effectively and beautifully. THE GOOD SHEPHERD.
