[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Annual Financial and Statistical Report Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer]
ANNUAL  REPORT— 1940  427 
99  years  ago.     I  was  also  impressed  In  1843,  a  necessity  committee  of 
by  the  fact  that  there  is  still  need  in  16  was  appointed  ''to  search  out  the 
all  our  communities,  irrespective  of  poor  and  suffering,  to  call  upon  the 
their  extensive  and  varied  geograph-  rich  for  aid,  and  thus,  as  far  as  pos- 
ical  distribution,  for  the  same  help-  sible,  relieve  the  wants  of  all."    Last 
ful,friendly,  sympathetic  services  as  year,    the    visiting    teachers    made 
those  performed  by  the  women  of  1,188,462  visits  to  the  homes  of  Lat- 
Nauvoo  at  the  inception  of  the  So-  ter-day  Saint  families,  nearly  60,000 
ciety.    Although  begun  so  long  ago,  more  calls  than  were   recorded  in 
at  a  time  when  there  were  no  pat-  1939. 
terns  and  precedents  in  organizations  During  the  first  year  of  operation, 
for  women,  no  experiences  upon  the  Relief  Society  expended  for  the 
which  to  draw  in  establishing  and  relief  of  the  poor,  $306.48;  in  1940, 
conducting  a  workable  society  for  a  total  of  $95,187.12  was  disbursed 
women,  it  is  indicative  of  its  inspired  for  charitable  purposes, 
inception  that  the  purposes  of  the  in  the  fall  of  1843,  the  Relief  So- 
original  organization  are  still  the  ciety  women  of  Nauvoo  initiated 
principal  concern  of  all  Relief  So-  sewing  service  for  those  in  need,  as- 
cieties  today,  wherever  located.  In  sembling  materials  and  making  bed- 
adhering  to  its  initial  assignment,  the  ding  and  clothing  to  be  "given  to 
Society  has  not  clung  to  customs  and  such  as  are  suffering  cold  and  naked- 
functions  for  which  there  is  no  need  ness."  Last  year,  the  regular  monthly 
today,  but  it  has  adapted  its  human  sewing  meetings  held  throughout  the 
services  to  a  changing  era,  risen  to  organization  carried  forward  a  larger 
meet  new  needs,  expanded  its  pro-  sewing  program  than  usual  in  order 
gram,  and  endeavored  always  to  im-  to  make  bedding  and  clothing  for 
prove  the  methods  by  which  it  car-  distribution  through  the  Church  wel- 
ries  forward  its  timeless  objectives.  fare  program,  as  well  as  for  issuance 
by  the  Society.    Compare  the  simi- 
^  FEW  excerpts  from  stake,  ward,  ja^i^y  of  the  proposal  in  1843  that  the 
and  mission  reports,  compared  Society  "get  together  materials  for 
with  others  from  the  Nauvoo  records,  the    Saints   for   bedding  that   they 
will  serve  to  bear  out  these  statements  ^^ight   not   suffer"   with   the    1940 
and  also  to  give  a  panorama  of  Relief  project  for  better  beds  and  bedding 
Society  at  work.  conducted  on  a  "help  one  another" 
Weekly  meetings  were  inaugu-  plan  in  an  Arizona  stake,  with  the 
rated  in  the  first  days  of  the  Society  hundreds  of  quilts  made  by  ward 
at  Nauvoo;  last  year  more  than  71 ,000  Relief  Societies  throughout  the 
weekly  meetings  were  held  in  the  Church,  and  with  the  recent  request 
various  wards,  except  during  the  of  the  Relief  Societies  in  the  Bra- 
summer  months,  zilian   Mission   for  information   on 
A  charity  fund,  derived  from  con-  mattress-making  so  that  the  bedding 
tributions  of  members  and  others,  facilities  of  their  members  might  be 
was  started  at  the  organization  meet-  improved.    Sewing  for  the  needy  is 
ing  in  1842;  contributions  and  other  indeed  a  major  activity  of  the  Relief 
receipts  for  charity  in  1940  amounted  Society  of  today,  as  it  was  in  Nauvoo. 
to  $76,844.91.  The  eariy  minutes  tell  us  that  in

428 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE,  1941 
addition  to  caring  for  the  needy  and 
destitute,  the  women  of  the  first  Re- 
Hef  Society  turned  their  efforts  to- 
ward the  raising  of  funds  for  the 
temple  which  was  then  being  built 
in  Nauvoo.  In  the  reports  submitted 
for  1940  are  numerous  examples  of 
funds  raised  by  Relief  Societies  in 
various  ingenius  ways  in  the  interest 
of  the  erection  of  ward  chapels  and 
stake  houses,  and  even  in  the  pur- 
chase of  lots  on  which  ward  build- 
ings are  to  be  placed.  They  have 
raised  funds  to  help  buy  chairs  and 
benches  for  their  chapels,  and,  as  an 
example  of  the  geographical  spread 
of  similar  activities,  I  mention  that 
a  ward  Relief  Society  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  one  in  the  far-away  Ar- 
gentine Mission  each  assisted  its 
ward  to  buy  an  organ.  The  Nauvoo 
Relief  Society  as  an  organization  of- 
fered to  weave  and  sew  clothing  for 
the  temple  workmen,  most  of  whom 
were  giving  volunteer  service,  and 
they  also  donated  groceries  for  their 
families.  The  1940  reports  include 
many  instances  of  the  Relief  Society 
preparing  and  serving  food  to  men 
donating  labor  in  the  erection  of 
chapels,  in  the  beautification  of 
Church  grounds,  and  in  some  types 
of  welfare  projects. 
TN  fulfilling  its  chief  purpose— ''to 
seek  out  and  relieve  the  dis- 
tressed,'' the  women  of  Nauvoo  en- 
countered problems  which  are  fa- 
miliar to  every  Relief  Society  presi- 
dent today.  Some  of  the  narrative 
reports  sent  in  by  wards  for  1940 
tell  of  services  similar  to  those  re- 
corded in  the  Nauvoo  minutes  of  the 
Society.  The  following  excerpts 
from  the  1940  report  of  one  small- 
town ward  Relief  Society  in  Utah  in- 
dicate the  services  of  a  typical  ward 
Relief  Society— a  transient  family  in 
desperate  need  and  with  many  prob- 
lems settled  in  the  community,  care 
was  provided  for  a  maternity  case, 
hospital  care  for  a  case  of  appendi- 
citis, an  aged,  sick  man  was  visited, 
the  bishop  requested  a  visit  to  learn 
what  assistance  might  be  given  the 
family  of  a  man  who  had  been  shot, 
care  was  given  by  the  members  of 
the  Society  during  the  illness  of  a 
woman,  a  tonsillectomy  for  a  little 
boy  was  arranged,  comfort  and  as- 
sistance was  given  in  connection  with 
at  least  ten  funerals  in  the  com- 
munity, and  the  Society  assisted  the 
bishop  in  providing  and  distributing 
cheer  baskets  at  Christmas  time.  In 
addition  to  these  welfare  activities, 
the  conduct  of  the  regular  weekly 
meetings,  the  study  of  the  outlined 
educational  courses,  and  the  work 
of  the  visiting  teachers,  this  Society 
also  held  a  meeting  at  the  home  of 
each  of  its  aged,  homebound  mem- 
bers in  recognition  of  their  birthdays, 
bought  material  and  made  draperies 
for  the  ward  Relief  Society  room, 
prepared  and  sold  refreshments  at  a 
ward  party  to  raise  money  for  the 
stake  tabernacle,  made  a  survey  in 
the  interest  of  the  Church  campaign 
against  the  use  of  alcohol  and  to- 
bacco, assisted  in  the  Church  beau- 
tification program,  held  a  ward  Re- 
lief Society  conference,  attended  spe- 
cial meetings  called  by  the  bishop 
to  discuss  ward  problems,  attended 
the  annual  stake  Relief  Society  con- 
ference, gave  a  party  for  retiring  of- 
ficers when  the  ward  Relief  Society 
was  reorganized,  sent  representa- 
tives to  a  stake  music  course,  bought 
eighteen  of  the  new  Reliei  Society 
Song  BookSy  held  monthly  officers' 
meetings,  provided  a  trio  to  sing  in 
the  temple  on  stake  Relief  Society

ANNUAL  REPORT— 1940 
429 
temple  day,  made  neariy  loo  spe- 
cial visits  to  the  sick  and  homebound, 
annual  visits  to  all  members  in  the 
ward  vv^ere  made  by  the  presidency, 
and  the  women  contributed,  during 
the  year,  neariy  600  hours  in  making 
15  quilts.  This  statement  of  activ- 
ities in  one  ward,  multiplied  by  the 
2,132  local  Relief  Societies,  would 
give  a  fair  indication  of  the  extent 
of  services  rendered  by  the  Society 
during  1940.  Several  instances  were 
reported  where  ward  Relief  Societies 
held  special  sewing  days  for  mother- 
less families  and  for  families  who 
had  lost  all  their  belongings  by  fire. 
TN  addition  to  activities  such  as 
these,  many  special  programs  and 
projects  are  being  conducted  for  the 
furtherance  of  individual  and  com- 
munity welfare.  In  many  instances, 
these  special  services  are  carried  for- 
ward on  a  stake  basis,  with  pooled 
funds  from  the  various  wards  of  the 
stake.  Nineteen  years  ago,  the  Gen- 
eral Board  recommended,  at  its  April 
general  conference  in  1922,  that  the 
interest  on  the  recently  centralized 
wheat  trust  fund  be  used  for  health 
work,  with  emphasis  on  maternity 
care  and  child  welfare.  Your  narra- 
tive reports  for  1940  give  indication
