[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 38 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes to the Field]
SOCIAL  WELFARE  DEPARTMENT 
419 
Church  can  be  of  further  assistance 
lo  our  bishops  in  clearing  cases,  not 
only  through  Church  sources,  but 
by  gathering,  confidentially  and 
quietly,  information  from  other 
agencies  which  would  afford  the 
bishops  a  complete  report  of  the 
families  involved,  and  with  your 
help,  aid  them  to  determine  what 
is  to  be  done. 
It  is  rather  interesting  to  note 
that  in  the  counties  of  the  State  of 
Utah  there  are  different  rulings  as 
to  what  constitutes  the  family 
budget.  In  a  recent  conference  with 
certain  representatives,  it  has  been 
found  that  the  budget  of  Salt  Lake 
County  is  not  adequate,  and  for  that 
reason  the  Church  is  called  upon 
frequently  to  render  supplemental 
assistance.  The  presidents  of  our 
Relief  Societies  can  render  a  real 
service  in  becoming  fully  acquainted 
with  the  family  budgets  set  up  in 
the  various  counties  where  they  live. 
If  the  budget  is  not  adequate,  then 
your  suggestions  to  the  bishops  to 
supplement  will  be  most  helpful. 
May  I  further  suggest  that  where 
supplemental  assistance  is  anticipat- 
ed, it  is  always  wise  to  contact  the 
county  agency,  notifying  it  of  your 
intention;  and  by  this  procedure  you 
will  avoid  misunderstandings  with 
county  agencies  and  will  not  jeopard- 
ize assistance  being  rendered  by  the 
county  to  families  in  distress.  Cases 
have  come  to  our  attention  where 
supplemental  assistance  has  been 
rendered  without  the  knowledge  of 
the  county  welfare  department;  and 
upon  learning  of  the  assistance,  the 
county  has  immediately  deducted 
the  amount  of  the  supplemental  as- 
sistance from  the  family  budget, 
working  a  hardship  upon  the  family. 
As  presidents  of  Relief  Societies, 
you  must  always  keep  in  mind 
that  the  great  objective  of  the 
Church  is  the  individual;  conse- 
quently it  is  the  duty  of  all  of  us  to 
see  that  there  is  no  breaking  down 
in  the  attitude  of  the  people  toward 
work,  toward  the  Church,  and  to- 
ward government.  We  should  im- 
press upon  everyone  receiving  assist- 
ance that  he  is  worth  something  in 
the  sight  of  God  and  is  worth  saving. 
We  should  have  a  wholesome  re- 
spect for  the  individual,  for  his  per- 
sonality, character;  and,  finally,  in 
rendering  relief  be  sure,  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, that  no  individual,  unless  he  is 
physically  incapacitated,  is  going  to 
become  wholly  dependent  upon  the 
state  or  the  Church.  Every  individ- 
ual should  be  encouraged  to  work 
and  assist  himself  and  never  be  al- 
lowed to  feel  he  is  entirely  depend- 
ent upon  society  for  his  mainten- 
ance. 
If  opportunities  for  employment 
are  not  available  in  private  industry, 
then  through  the  agency  of  the  wel- 
fare program  those  projects  should 
be  set  in  motion  which  will  afford 
every  man  or  woman  who  is  in  need 
of  assistance  the  opportunity  to  con- 
tribute of  his  time  and  talents  to  the 
program  and,  in  turn,  receive  the 
necessities  of  life,  which  will  belong 
to  him  because  they  have  been 
earned  by  the  sweat  of  his  own  brow. 
The  Relief  Societies  render  assist- 
ance in  other  ways  than  relief.  The 
opportunities  afforded  our  sisters  in 
cultural  pursuits,  in  recreation,  in 
learning  how  to  do  things  with  their 
hands,  is  really  an  outstanding 
achievement. 
With  your  assistance  we  cannot 
fail.  A  united  Priesthood  and  a  co- 
operative organization  of  the  moth- 
ers of  Israel  can  achie\c  all  that  the

420 
Lord  requires  of  us.  The  eyes  of  the 
world  are  upon  us,  and  our  destiny 
is  leadership  and  success.  Let  the 
world  see  our  achievements,  and  they 
will  be  happy  to  follow  after  us. 
May  the  Lord  bless  you,  inspire 
you,  that  every  aim  of  your  great