[Vol28 | June 1941 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Bishop Joseph L. Gillespie]
LESSON  PREVIEW— 1941-42 
stress  the  Latter-day  Saint  point  of 
view. 
A  regular  textbook  has  not  been 
chosen  for  this  course  of  study,  but 
reference  to  the  books  Hsted  in  the 
following  general  bibliography  will 
be  helpful: 
GENERAL  BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Bigelow,  W.  F.  (editor),  Good  House- 
keeping Marriage  Book,  Prentice-Hall, 
Inc.,  New  York,  1938. 
Brooks  and  Groves,  Readings  in  the  Fam- 
ily, J.  B.  Lippincott  Co.,  Ghicago,  1934. 
Burkhart,  Roy  A.,  From  Friendship  to 
Marriage,  Harpers,  New  York,  1937. 
FoJsom,  J.  K.,  Plan  For  Marriage,  Harpers, 
New  York,  1938. 
Groves,  Ernest  R,,  Marriage,  Henry  Holt, 
New  York,   1933. 
Hart,  Hornell,  Personality  and  the  Family, 
D.  C.  Heath  and  Co.,  New  York,  1935. 
Levy,  John,  and  Monroe,  Ruth,  The  Happy 
Family,  A.  A.  Knapf,  New  York,  1938. 
Mowrer,  E.  A.,  Family  Disorganization, 
The  University  of  Chicago  Press,  Chi- 
cago,  1932. 
Nimkoff,  Meyer  F.,  The  Family,  Hough- 
ton, Mifflin  Co.,  New  York,  1934. 
Phelps,   William   Lyon,   Marriage,   E.    P. 
Dutton  and  Co.,  New  York,  1940. 
409 
Popenoe,  Paul,  The  Conservation  of  the 
Family,  Wilhams,  Baltimore,  1926. 
Rich,   Margaret  E.,   Family   Life   Today, 
Houghton,    MiffHn    Co.,    New    York, 
1928. 
Sait,  U.  B.,  New  Horizons  for  the  Family, 
The  Macmillan  Co.,  New  York,  1938. 
Wieman,  Regina  (Hanson)  Westcott, 
Modern  Family  and  the  Church,  Harpers, 
New  York,   1937. 
We  do  not  recommend  the  pur- 
chase of  these  books,  but  hope  that 
class  leaders  may  find  access  to  some 
of  them  through  libraries.  As  these 
books  are  not  written  by  Latter-day 
Saint  writers,  the  General  Board  of 
Relief  Society  does  not  necessarily 
endorse  all  statements  or  opinions 
in  the  books  listed.  Class  leaders 
are  advised  to  be  alert  to  the  many 
excellent  articles  appearing  in  cur- 
rent magazines  and  periodicals  on 
this  subject. 
Because  of  its  popularity  and  suc- 
cess, we  again  recommend  that  the 
discussion  method  of  lesson  presen- 
tation be  used  in  this  department. 
> 
1 1  iiSSiOfl   JLi essons 
Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 
(For  optional  use  of  missions  in  lieu  of  Literature) 
T^HE  lessons  in  literature  for  the 
missions  during  1941-42  will 
consist  of  a  study  of  the  poetic  quali- 
ties and  great  truths  of  the  Gospel 
as  found  in  eight  of  our  Mormon 
hymns. 
Singing  has  ever  been  an  integral 
part  of  the  services  of  our  Church. 
Just  three  months  after  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Church,  in  June, 
1830,  a  commandment  was  given  to 
Emma  Smith,  wife  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  asking  her  to  make  a  selec- 
tion of  sacred  hymns  for  the  Church. 
In  that  same  section  of  the  Doctrine 
2nd  Covenants  (Section  25),  the 
Lord  says,  'Tor  my  soul  delighteth 
in  the  song  of  the  heart;  yea,  the 
song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto 
me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with  a 
blessing  upon  their  heads/' 
The  following  eight  hymns   will 
be  studied:

410 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE,  1941 
1.  "The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows 
Flee/'  words  written  by  Parley  P.  Pratt 
(music  by  George  Careless),  is  a  poetic 
song  telling  of  the  bringing  forth  of  the 
Gospel.  It  will  always  live  in  the  hearts  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 
2.  "Oh,  My  Father,"  words  written  by 
Eliza  R.  Snow  (music  by  Evan  Stephens), 
pictures  the  sublime  truth  in  Mormonism 
of  an  eternal  home  with  a  Heavenly  Father 
and  mother.  It  is  the  favorite  hymn  of 
many. 
3.  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  A  Fire," 
words  by  William  W.  Phelps  (writer  of 
music  unknown),  may  be  called  out  "tem- 
ple" hymn.  It  was  sung  at  the  dedication 
of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  and  has  been 
featured  at  the  dedicatory  services  of  every 
temple  built  since  that  time. 
4.  "While  of  These  Emblems  We  Par- 
take," words  by  John  Nicholson  (music 
by  S.  McBumey),  is  a  song  we  associate 
closely  with  the  sacred  rite  of  partaking 
of  the  sacrament. 
5.  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a 
Prophet,"  words  by  William  Fowler  (mu- 
sic by  Caroline  E.  S.  Norton),  is  sung  in 
honor  of  the  Presidents  of  our  Church  who 
are  the  Lord's  prophets  on  earth. 
6.  "School  Thy  Feelings,  O  My  Broth- 
er," words  by  Charles  W.  Penrose  (music 
by   Ebenezer   Beesley),   is   a   song  which 
carries  a  lesson  for  each  of  us  and  may,  to 
our  advantage,  be  read  and  sung  often. 
7.  "True  to  the  Faith,"  words  and  mu- 
sic by  Evan  Stephens,  is  a  stirring  song 
written  for  the  youth  of  the  Church. 
8.  "Softly  Beams  the  Sacred  Dawning," 
words  by  John  Jaques  (music  by  George 
Careless),  fortells  the  dawning  of  the  great 
Millennial  Morn. 
In  a  day  of  trouble  and  trial  there 
comes  great  consolation  through 
singing  unto  the  Lord.  In  this  con- 
nection we  recall  the  comfort  the 
Prophet  Joseph  received  when, 
bowed  down  with  grief  in  Carthage 
Jail,  he  requested  John  Taylor  to 
sing  him  a  hymn  just  a  short  time 
before  the  Martyrdom. 
We  earnestly  hope  that  any  of  our 
sisters  who  find  themselves  in  dis- 
tress will  receive  renewed  faith  and 
a  determination  to  go  ahead  in  the 
Lord's  work  through  a  heartfelt  sing- 
ing of  the  songs  of  Zion. 
Note:  For  a  further  study  of  Latter-day 
Saint  hymns  not  included  in  this  course, 
we  recommend  Stones  oi  Latter-day  Saint 
Hymns,  by  George  D.  Pyper. 
^t^F^Gx 
PRAYER  FOR  STRENGTH 
Grace  WiWiams  Porter 
Lone  on  the  rocky  crag,  a  tree  flings  high 
Its  gnarled  limbs,  stark  against  the  livid  sky; 
Stripped  of  its  leaves  by  gales  that  wrench  and  maim, 
Scourged  by  hail's  swift  attack  and  lightning's  flame; 
Scorched  by  fierce  summer  suns,  low  pressed  with  snow. 
It  wrests  from  nature's  force  the  strength  to  grow. 
With  roots  deep-sunk  through  stone  to  fertile  sod, 
It  lifts  triumphant  arms  in  praise  to  God. 
Lord,  I  am  lonely  as  that  mountain  tree, 
Weighted  and  bound  by  stern  necessity. 
Life's  storms  in  fury  lash  about  my  head— 
Oh,  may  my  roots,  by  life's  dark  stresses  fed, 
Sink  deep  through  stones  of  doubt  to  faith's  rich  sod 
And  make  me  strong— of  Thine  own  image— God.

Social  Welfare  Department 
Relief  Society  General  Conference,  April  2,  1941 
(Addresses  of  Elder  Stringham  A.  Stevens  and  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  appear  in  full;