What Utah Does for the Deaf Amy Whipple Evans
One beautiful morning this spring I strolled along an orchard path with a teacher, who was taking her group of happy, romping children out to gather flowers. The air was crisp and filled with the sweetness of the blossoming trees. It was a joyous sight to watch the children as they ran about under the trees and out into an adjacent field of alfalfa, filling their little hands with flowers. I could scarcely realize that not one of these children could hear a sound. Yet that was so. For they were the first little first-grade pupils at our State School for the Deaf, at Ogden.
If these children had been born in the first part of the eighteenth century instead of the corresponding part of the twentieth, their lot would have been very much different. Instead of companionship, of being taught to speak and to understand the speech of others, of being trained in almost every branch of learning, they would be isolated, unable to communicate with others, uneducated, and legally in the same position as idiots and the insane. It was not till past the middle of the eighteenth century that the human conscience was aroused to the duty of educating the deaf. The first school for this class of defectives was established in Paris, France, in 1758. Fifty-nine years later a similar school was founded in the United States. This was at Hartford, Connecticut, through the influence of Dr. Cogswell, who had a little deaf child.
When the group of children of whom I have spoken had finished their walk, I returned with them to Primary Hall. In this building live all the pupils in the primary grade. It is modern, fire-proof, light, and airy. There are two floors. On the second floor are the dormitories, one in the east for girls and one in the west for boys. Adjoining the sleeping rooms are two large washrooms, with a washbowl and a mirror for each child, places for a hairbrush and comb, a toothbrush, a towel, and a wash cloth.


Bathrooms open from the wash-rooms. Each child has its own bed, chair, and locker. The children here are looked after by house-mothers, who take the place of real mothers to the children. They have entire charge when the children are out of the class-room. They oversee the dormitories and train the children in proper behavior and habits of order, health, and cleanliness. The boys and girls alike are taught to make their own beds, to keep their clothes and belongings in perfect order in their lockers, and to keep clean their wash-bowls and mirrors. After meals they take turns in washing and wiping dishes and in setting the table. They seem to enjoy their work. Many, many things pertaining to the welfare and happiness of the child's life depend upon these women. Owing to the cut in the appropriation to the school by the last legislature it will be necessary to reduce the number of house-mothers.
On the first floor of this building are the living rooms and the class rooms. No sign language is allowed in Primary Hall. An effort is made to make the education of the children as normal as possible. They are therefore taught to speak and to read the lips of others. One of the most interesting classes I have ever visited was here in the first-grade room, which showed the method used in teaching deaf children to speak and read and write. During the entire recitation the teacher did not make a sign or gesture to make herself understood, but simply talked to the pupils. When, at the teacher's request, I asked the class questions, they understood me and answered very well, I thought. Of course, the problem in teaching the deaf is to teach them how to speak and how to understand the speech of others, and it is here in Primary Hall that this important work is begun.
When the work is completed in Primary Hall, the pupils pass on to the grammar grades, which are in one of the other buildings. I visited classes in geography, arithmetic, and the history of Utah. The teachers use the oral methods in the class, and the pupils respond in oral speech, though I understand that sign language also is employed by the pupils in communicating with one another. In this building too are dormitories, with house-mothers.
A regular four years' high school course is offered by the school, including typewriting, agriculture, dairying, poultry-raising, and domestic art and science. The boys studying agriculture have the advantage of a small greenhouse, where they may study plants and raise them for transplanting. A pretty cottage gives the high school girls an opportunity to study home management in connection with domestic science and arts. These girls live in the cottage, and are taught how to plan and serve meals and to keep house generally. The cottage is inexpensively furnished. Many of the articles of furniture, such as tables, dressing tables, and dressers,
WHAT UTAH DOES FOR THE DEAF 379
were made by the boys in the shop. Yet with its ferns and flowers, its extreme cleanliness, it is a charming place indeed. I observed that the girls learned some things here not included in the curriculum. One was economy. When the curtains became worn at the ends and could no longer be used at full length, the girls cut them down and made sash curtains of them. At another window they had put ends of cretonne together in a clever way.
Cooking is taught in the grammar grades. The girls bottle about nine thousand quarts of fruit and vegetables a year. The fruit and vegetables are raised on the school farm, which furnishes clean, wholesome foods of various kinds for the pupils during the year. The girls, in these grades, are also taught to do their own plain sewing and dress making.
A good-sized gymnasium gives opportunity for physical education for both deaf and blind. There is a large pool where all the children are taught to swim. On the floor of this gymnasium twelve girls, pupils of Mrs. Isabelle Ross, danced for me. Although they were unable to hear a sound, they danced with perfect rhythm and grace to the music. These girls often dance for the entertainment of the public at Ogden. They like to feel that they can interest those who can hear.
The school hospital must not be overlooked. It is a small building, off by itself, built about nine years ago, though it looks new—it has been well cared for. There are three wards—a boys', a girls', and an isolation ward. A small operating room and a sterilizer are among the conveniences. It is in charge of a nurse, who looks after all cuts, scratches and bruises that the children receive. Every child with a temperature above normal goes to the hospital. All bad colds are looked after so that they do not develop into anything serious.
Then there are the shops, where the boys are taught in the afternoons. In the carpenter shop are made by the boys such things as chickenhouses, cowpens, fences, and also furniture, are made by the boys. The tables, chairs and some bookcases in the school library were made here. So, too, were the large round dining tables in Primary Hall. A shoe shop, printing shop, and auto mechanic shop, with sloyd for the small boys, complete this branch of the school. The training in auto mechanics and shoemaking, however, will be discontinued next year because of lack of funds.
One recreational and educational feature of the school has been the May festival, held annually on the campus for the past ten years. These festivals have taken the form of historical pageants, alternating each year with the story of the blind and of the deaf. They have been written by Mr. Murray Allen, teacher of the blind and directed by Mrs. Isabelle S. Ross, head of the physical education department of the school. The pageant "portrays


the struggle of the deaf against intolerance and neglect to a position of happiness and achievement through the blessings of education." The training the pupils have received in taking their various parts has meant much to them and has been wonderful to see. Recreational experts from Utah and from the east have pronounced these pageants the very finest of the class that they have ever seen. It is to be regretted that these must also be discontinued indefinitely because of lack of funds.
Going through the buildings of this institution—the classrooms, the dormitories, the kitchen, the bakeshops, the laundry, or any other department—one is immediately struck by the beautiful cleanliness and order of everything. The pupils are very cleanly, their clothing and shoes and whole persons are well cared for.
There are now one hundred twenty-eight pupils at the school. More than ninety per cent of these are members of the "Mormon" Church. The school was established at Salt Lake City, in 1884, but twelve years afterwards was moved to Ogden. Mr. Frank R. Driggs is superintendent; he has been at the institution over thirty years.
Out of one hundred graduates of the school, according to Mr. Driggs, there is only one of whom the school cannot be proud. All the others have become useful and happy citizens, an asset to the state. Some have gone on to higher institutions of learning, becoming specialists in their chosen vocations. One is a bacteriologist at the L. D. S. Hospital, and another is a valuable assistant to the state bacteriologist. Others have become teachers, being instructors in school for the deaf in Montana, Colorado, Kentucky, and Maryland. In the trades they become contractors, printers, shoemakers and so on, but the chief occupation of the graduates is farming. About fifty per cent earn their living in this manner.
There have been twenty-eight marriages among the graduates of the school. Of all the children that have resulted from these marriages, Superintendent Driggs said, not one has been deaf.
The Ogden school has always ranked high among institutions for the deaf. But owing to lack of funds, it will be impossible, Mr. Driggs thinks, to keep the school in the first class. "With forty thousand dollars less in four years," said the Superintendent, "it will be necessary to drop many things from our courses of study. With depleted courses, fewer teachers and supervisors, and other necessary changes, I fear we shall have to be content with a second class institution."
It is interesting to know that most large cities in the United States have churches for the deaf where religious services are conducted in sign language.
WHAT UTAH DOES FOR THE DEAF 381
It is well to bear in mind that the really deaf are scarcely ever beggars. According to recent statistics ninety-seven per cent of all the deaf in the United States are self-supporting—a statement that cannot be made of those who can hear. The American Association of the Deaf is working to suppress impostors who beg on the highways under the guise of the deaf.
Many things may be said of the achievements of those who are handicapped by the loss of the sense of hearing, which makes one feel with Dr.