HANNAH NESLEN SHARP Reminiscences of Mrs. John Sharp Ramona Wilcox Cannon When Sister Hannah Neslen Sharp was left a widow at the age of seventy, she prayed that she might retain an unclouded memory throughout the remaining years of her life. If happiness were to be her portion, the past must be hers to command as readily as the present, for her past was rich in cherished experiences with her parents, brothers and sisters and friends?but particularly with her husband, with whom she had lived an idyllic life for fortyeight years. Whether in tent, log-house, or adobe rooms, or in the mansion which they later built, they two, together, says Sister Sharp, were capable of making a heaven on this earth. One has only to know Sister Sharp to realize that her prayer has been granted. She now lacks a month of being eighty-two, and her memory is remarkable; her recollection of childhood events and scenes, of names, dates, ages, is almost instantaneous. She could always remember a melody from once hearing it, and she can now sing the words of every song she has learned since she was five. We are not likely to hear in her conversation, "Well, now, let me see!"' or "Was it so and so?" or, "Such and such?" When she speaks there is a gratifying clearness and precision of both thought and diction. Her memory-stream runs 
 smooth and unobstructed, and contains a wealth of vivid details which she sprinkles with dashes of humor as she narrates them. Dr. Joseph Richards once said to her, "You'll be making jokes the day you die, Aunt Hannah." Every occasion present or past, a or glad, is likely to give rise to one of her sprightly sallies. "Why did you cut off your pretty hair?" demanded Sister Sharp the other day of a middle-aged woman. "Because it wasn't pretty any more," replied the shorn one. "Well, it was as pretty as it'll ever be again," pronounced Sister Sharp. Recently Sister Sharp received a gift of a silk umbrella. At a party someone was admiring the large gold ring attached to the handle of it. '"How pretty!" exclaimed the woman. "Ves, it's too pretty for an umbrella. I'm thinking of using it for a bracelet," came the quick response. When irivited to a luncheon the other day, she accepted thus: "Well, I've no white dress and blue sash to do up, but if the cholera infantum dosen't get me before Saturday, you'll see me there." Sister Sharp, who by adoption has become "Aunt Hannah" to a great number of her younger admirers, believes that cheerfulness almost amounts to an ethical principle. "I never go to see sick people unless I am well enough to cheer them up," she says. Hannah Neslen was born at Lowestoft in Suffolk, England, in the year 1844, on June 1, "Brother Brigham's birthday," as she was often reminded. She was the seventh daughter and twelfth child of Brother Samuel Neslen and Sister Eunice Frances Neslen. Tt is her testimony that she had one of the best fathers and one of the best mothers who ever lived. Her father was very religious by temperament. Seeking a complete satisfaction in spiritual matters, he had joined one denomination after another. When he first heard the principles of "Mormonism," he felt that at last he had found what he had been desiring. His wife thought, "Dear me, another one!" and declined to accept his conversion seriously. He, however, remained faithful to the gospel during the remainder of his life?more than forty years. Less than two years after his baptism, his wife also joined the Latter-day Saints. At eight, Hannah was baptized along with her brother, Robert, the father of the present Mayor of Salt Lake City. Some months later, the parents with their nine living children left England to come to Utah. They took passage on the sailing vessel, Golconda, under the direction of Captain Hall. (No memory-searching to capture those names!) For eight weeks they sailed on the little "boat, tossed most of the time by a rough and relentless sea. Brother Nelsen, being well-off financially, was able to obtain first ? REMINISCENCES OF MRS. JOHN SHARP ? 347 cabins, but no part of the boat could be called comfortable. Brother Claudius V. Spencer was President of the company. Every Wednesday night the Saints met in the sterrage to hold a prayer meeting. 'Every time I hear thunder," says Aunt Hannah, "I think of the storm we had one of those Wednesday nights." The vessel was pitching terribly. The waves were so high they were dashing over the decks. All port-holes had to be locked. Everything on the tables crashed over the edges to the HANNAHEI NESLEN SHARP AT 17 floor. Above the table the chandelier was swinging from side to side. All the passengers were stricken with terror. "I want mother," cried little Hannah; but her parents were at meeting in the steerage. She and Elizabeth went to their cabin, where the mate locked them in, saying, "Don't be frightened, everything will 
 be all right." All the Saints who were in meeting were locked in the steerage. The Captain, fearing a panic, kept the decks clear to avoid unnecessary casualties. "I remember clinging to Elizabeth and thinking, 'If the Lord does take us to the bottom of the sea, I'll be holding tight to sister.'" says Aunt Hannah. Suddenly there was a terrific noise and lurching. Three masts? the main one in the middle, and. The shorter one on each end, where the rigging was attached?had been snapped off by the gale, and had crashed down on the top deck. The children learned afterwards what was happening in the steerage. The people were in a panic, the women screaming and fainting and praying. At the other end of the steerage were many Irish Catholics, who screamed and called on the Virgin and told their beads with prayers. Among the Saints, President Spencer was trying to take command and call the people to order. "If you will give your attention"?"If you will give your attention'?his voice grew more and more stern?If you will give your attention, we will call upon the Lord, who is the only power that can save us in this peril." At length they grew more calm, and concentrated their minds on prayer. Immediately the fury of the storm began to abate, and before long the cabins were unlocked. The Neslens hurried to their little girls, and said, "Now, don't cry any more, dears. The Lord will take care of us." The Captain commented later, "I don't know what-could have saved us! I never dreamed after the masts went down, that we would see the sun rise again. Never in the history of sailing have I heard of such an escape. I do believe we owe our lives to the prayers of those 'Mormons.?" The sea-was rough and stormy most of the way. Sister Sharp remembers how nearly every one was ill. One day she had stayed in the cabins most of the time, making herself useful to the different members of her family, who were all confined to bed. Wearied at length, she went out, and finding the deck deserted, approached the Captain's bridge. He was looking through the telescope. When he saw her, he said, "Come along, little sailor. You're about the only person I've seen aboard today." "Well, I'm tired of 'passing the can,' " confided the little girl. The Colconda stopped at New Orleans, where the wharfs were piled high with cotton bales. The method of landing was curious. A line of small boards, with ladders stretched from one to the other, extended from the Golconda to the shore. Across these Brother Neslen led his wife by the hand; while little Hannah climbed on the back of a sailor, who crawled across with her. The family sailed up the broad Mississippi in a steam-boat. "What a noise it made!" exclaimed Aunt Hannah. At one point they landed to see a black "'mammy" a hundred and twenty years REMINISCENCES OF MRS. JOHN SHARP 349 old. The steamer was taking on coal, so they had a little while to observe her. "I can see her now, sitting in a big arm chair. She looked so tired and feeble, and she was all wrinkled like a mummy. She lived by the contributions of sight-seers; so we each paid our picayune, (a term used in the South for ten cents), and then we got aboard again." On this river trip, little Hannah contracted what was really typhoid fever, but at the time was called mountain fever. She was ill for many weeks. For some distance on the journey across the plains, the child was unable to walk. In St. Louis, the family rented a house for some weeks and rested, in preparation for the westward trek. Hannah, one day, heard the Saints singing at the funeral of a little girl who had died of the fever. She wept, thinking that next they would be singing at services for herself. "You are not going to die," said her mother. "In England I was blest and promised that I and every member of my family should reach Zion alive. That promise will be fulfilled." At or near where Omaha stands now, the family made their final preparations for crossing the plains. They bought oxen which they broke to the yoke, and two cows which they named Betty and Dolly. They packed the prairie-schooner, and made their valiant start with the rest of the company. The cows trailed at the rear of the long procession, herded all the way by two men, and guarded at night by an acting sentry. Herding the cows was rather lonely business, and one day, Hannah's older sister, Elizabeth, with two companions, went back to keep the herdsmen company. The Saints came to a river which they forded with their teams, continuing their journey with never a thought of the three girls they had left behind them. The herdsmen had one horse with them which one of them used to carry Elizabeth's two companions across, one at a time. But she, possessed of a dauntless spirit, pulled off her shoes and stockings, tucked them in her pockets, got astride Betty, her pet cow, and holding tight to her neck plunged into the stream. Fortunately she arrived safely on the other side. There were Indians and buffalo, sickness, births and deaths, as they crossed the plains. Sister Neslen had a natural gift for nursing', which was put to frequent use on the long journey. She cared for one woman who had picked up a loaded gun and lacerated her hand and fingers. The doctor at Fort Bridger said when he saw the hand, "I couldn't have taken better care of it myself." At Wood River a terrible storm came up, and Hannah's mother was not in their camp. "I want mama. Where's mama?" questioned the child, through the night. In the morning Sister 
 Neslen came in, serene and gentle, and answered the query. "Why, I stayed with Sister Dye last night, dearie, and do you know the angels sent her a little baby boy." Then, on with the march!  The family arrived in Zion in September, 1853, little Hannah being nine years of age. They lived in a log cabin while her father, was building an eight-room adobe house on the lot where he Harkness home now stands. That location seemed almost like the surburbs to the Pioneers. But President Young advised Brother Neslen to make his home there, and remarked tersely, "In ten years you won't ask me why." His vision was prophetic, as always.  The first year the children went to school in the one adobe room on Brigham Street which served as the 18th ward meeting house. "Old Lady Lockley" was the teacher, "and how she ever did it, I don't know," comments Aunt Hannah "The students were all ages from five to thirty, and used anything that came to hand for text-books: Mitchell's Geography and Smith's Geography, and plenty of other kinds. And then there was a huge atlas, too, that we all used." About that time the Snow Academy (which later became the Clawson home) was dedicated, Lorenzo Snow being. President, with Brother Eddington and Brother Cornaby as his assistants. Brother Cornaby was in charge of the girls whose quarters were up stairs, and down stairs Brother Eddington had the boys under his tutelage. Every three months the school had an afternoon entertainment, and little Hannah was, upon one occasion, formally addressed as Miss Neslen and invited to recite at one of these functions. There, for the first time, her future husband, Brother John Sharp, saw her?quite unbeknown to her?and loved her. She did so well on this occasion that she was invited to recite before "Brother Brigham" and all the Church dignitaries at a big social meeting of the Polysophical Society, which was to be held in the old social hall. She was rather terrified at the thought, but "I remember it would mean a new dress, so I said I would speak to mother about it," confesses delightful Aunt Hannah. "I got the new dress?a white one with a blue sash?and many nights I lay awake practicing 'The Drunkard's Child,' for fear I might forget parts of it." 'When the great occasion arrived, the hall was soon filled to overflowing, and many had to be turned away. The program lasted for some hours; and then there was a recess: then more program. No one thought to call upon the child' early, so that, when her turn came, she was awakened from a sound sleep?her head pillowed on, her neighbor's arm?by hearing her own name called. Dazedly she recollected that she was to recite "The Drunkard's Child," and in a moment was on her feet bowing to President REMINISCENCES OF MRS. JOHN SHARP ? 351 Young and other authorities. She finished her long selection without missing a word or a gesture, turning her dark brown: eyes to heaven and pleading with her hands. As she completed the last lines: "Amongst millions of earth, not one friend can I claim, To wipe off my tears or to call me by name. On my cold bed of straw, I will lie down and die, And my prison-filled soul will ascend upon high, When Jesus in accents of mercy so mild Will comfort forever the poor drunkard's child." There was a storm of applause that sent her scurrying to her mother. She was so frightened that she buried her head in Sister Neslen's lap: nor could either the applause, or her mother's persuasion, prevail upon the child to come out and give an encore, or even a bow. For the sake of those who could not gain admittance that night, the Polysophical Society planned to repeat the program the next evening. Little Miss Neslen, feeling unequal to the strain of "The Drunkard's Child," favored the audience with "The Children's Wishes." That day an overwhelming honor was conferred upon the gifted child. She was quite formally presented with an honorary membership in the famous Polysophical Society. The following year, at eleven, Hannah attended the Snow Academy. There she saw her husband for the first time. "I used to think, 'What a nice, quiet boy!" confides Aunt Hannah. "Of course, we were in love with each other, but we didn't know it was love then." Aunt Hannah gives us a picture of the Brigham Young household, which is in a different spirit from that which Werner paints. She was a friend of "Brigham Young's ten girls" (Carley, Emily, Mary, Fanny, Rye, Ella,, Rindy, Nettie, Ziny and Evy) and frequently visited them at the Lion House. President Young had the "Eighteenth ward square," and in fact a goodly portion of the Eighteenth ward planted in gardens. There were acres of peas and acres of strawberries. Upon occasion, President Young indulgently gave his children and their friends free rein in the strawberry patch, where Sister Sharp remembers having a veritable feast. She was visiting the children that Aunt Zina was rearing. Asa rule all the families had dinner together in the big dining room in the basement. Of the Lion House, but on this occasion the children had supper in Aunt Zina's apartment. Afterwards they were grouped about the piano, singing, in the big parlor, when President Young entered. He greeted them very kindly and visited informally with them while the 
 other members of the family were gathering for prayers. Promptly at eight o'clock President Young said, "Will someone please close the door," Then the entire household knelt in prayer. Afterwards there was delightful visiting and perhaps music. "There was a wonderful spirit in that home," says Aunt - Hannah. "President Young was kind and loving. He went out of his way to be nice to children, and was very hospitable. He used to drive about town in his little one-seated buggy, drawn by one horse. He carried a spirit of cheer around with him. I once saw him get out of the buggy to speak to a cripple. He laid his hand on his shoulder, and said, 'God bless you and make you well'? Ay, we were all like one big family in those days, and we loved Brother Brigham. He was not only a man of God?he was a perfect gentleman, abroad and at home." Sister Sharp recalls going to an unusual meeting in the old Eighteenth ward adobe hall. There was no pulpit; the speakers stood behind a cane-bottomed chair. At this testimony meeting, Sister Whitney, Sister Eliza Snow, and Sister Zina Young were sitting side by side on the front row. Suddenly Sister Young rose and began singing very sweetly in tongues. In a moment Sister Snow and Sister Whitney were also on their feet, singing in perfect unison with Sister Young. The interpretation was one of the songs of Zion. Zion was growing rapidly at this time. Brother Neslen, like many other converts, spent thousands of dollars in emigrating families to Zion. His own children were growing up and marrying, and' Hannah and John now "knew that it was love" and became engaged when the young girl was seventeen. At nineteen she was making rag carpets and other trousseau articles, preparatory to her wedding, when her young man was called on a mission. Then Hannah, like many another plucky woman, had to bear the loneliness of a two-year parting from her loved one.