Teachers' Topic for September HOME TALKS Cooperation Between the Home and the School I, Why there should be cooperation: 1. THe school supplements and continues the training the child receives in the home. 2. The school and the home have a common object in the training of the child. 3. An understanding of the work of each promotes harmony and greater ability to deal with the child in the most intelligent way. II. How to cooperate with the school: 1. Parents should visit schools to become acquainted with methods and standards also to meet teachers. 2. Invite teachers to visit home, especially if there is difficulty between teacher and pupil. (A teacher is always more interested in a pupil after a visit to the home, or after a visit to the school from the parent.) 3. Parents should not criticize adversely school or teachers before pupils. This habit makes cooperation difficult. 4, Parents should take an attitude of helpfulness toward teachers and school, and should make every effort to cultivate the same attitude in the child. 5. If the child is unhappy in school the parent should go to the teacher in a friendly spirit and try to help her understand the child and study ways of removing the difficulty... 6. Parents should understand the rules of the school and why they are made. They are thus better able to interpret the rules to the child. 7. To join and attend Parent Teachers' Associations, cultivates the spirit of cooperation, and brings the home and the school closer together. ? We specialize in all branches of laundry work Let us relieve you of the worries of washday LAUNDRY Wasatch 2624 Quality Laundry 625 State Street SALT LAKE CITY  IT IS BETTER TO GIVE THAN TO RECEIVE And the greatest real pleasure we can have is to help someone who is sick. Nature did not intend that we should have so many ailments and the body is so constructed that it is able to build itself'up and throw off the impurities we take into it up to a certain extent, then it requires some extra help. Nature again comes to the rescue by placing Radium in the earth so water coming in contact with it becomes Radioactive, thereby supplying that E-vtra life and energy required to restore us to health again. Most Spring Water carries this Radioactivity in the form of a "healing gas," to some extent, yet it is only at such noted springs as the "Arkansas Hot Springs" in this country; and Vichy, France; Baden Baden, Germany; Bath, England and some others that carry this in sufficient amount to be of real health value. To eliminate the enormous expense of going to these places for treatment The National Radium Corporation of Chicago and Denver, the oldest and largest Radium concern in the world has perfected the Lifetime Radium Water Jar, guaranteed for a lifetime to produce a greater amount of Radioactivity than is found in any World Known Health Spring. This jar is made entirely of aluminum with a powerful preparation of pure Radium Salts sealed in the bottom, holds eleven quarts of water, enough for the entire family. Fill the jar with your regular drinking water at night or just as you take it out and then drink about eight glasses or more each day. Approximately seventy-five percent of all ailments or diseases are cured through this simple nature's method. Investigate Now. Call and see us or write The G. & H. Co. 21 East lst South, Salt Lake City, Utah 15 East lst North, Logan, Utah 2477 Kiesel Avenue, Ogden, Utah Columbia Theatre Building, Provo, Utah ? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine TRAVEL AND PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENT INSURANCE or call at our office. Deseret News You can't tell her that you can't afford this: It only costs one dollar for one year, costs so little, protection so great. If you walk across the street, ride in autos, travel on trains, ride in street cars, go to theatres or church, you need this policy. Write us today and let us tell you more about it. Deseret News SALT CITY, UTAH LET THE Policy Accidents Happen Every Day Phone Wasatch 550 Cameras and Films Fresh supply always on hand. Developing and printing at standard prices Deseret Book Co. 44 East on So. Temple Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN  Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone? Telegraph Orders Open Daily, 9 a. M?5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine  HERE IS HIGHPOWERED CLEANING HELP FREE World's largest Selling vacuum cleaner sent to your home for free use. $8.50 set of attachments FREE with each cleaner purchased.  Eureja Vacuum Cleaner Co. 161 So. State Sold by Utah Power & Light Co Wasatch 500 Serve BECCO On your Camping Trips ? ?take along plenty of bottles of sparkling Becco. Its honest flavor Ly makes it the favorite with every- one?and it reassures you purity in what you drink. BECKER PRODUCTS CO. Utah Power & Light Co. H L Wasatch 500 Ogden, Utah 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and )? Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful Hose for wear Per Pair.......WOMEN $1.95 Box of Three Pairs.............$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair......... Gf.....$1.50 Box of Three Pairs......$4.25 Silk with Extra ich Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking $1.50 J. F Box of Three Pairs..........-$4.25 All Colors Per Pairs $1.00 Box of Three Pairs..........-. $2.85 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, BLUE PINE GROUND MUSTARD, VINEGAR, and WHOLE PICKLING SPICES will do their share toward making good pickles. We guarantee them. FullO Flavor ? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE