BARKER Pioneer Reminiscences of Mrs. Margaret Stalle Barker By Her Son, Professor James L. Barker (Head of Modern Language Department, University of Utah) Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered Saints, whose bones Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold; Even them who kept thy truth so pure of old, When all our fathers worshipped stocks and stones. Forget not; in thy book record their groans, etc. Milton, on the late massacre in Piedmonth, (1655). The above lines were written in protest of the treatment of the oldest protestant people in Europe, so old in fact, that it is not known whether they ever recognized the authority of the pope or not. There were other dissenters before Luther, but all other heretical movements were stamped out by the power of Rome. In the north of Italy, opposition to the domination of Rome perhaps, 
 never ceased. It was only in 1134 that Milan recognized her supremacy. At Monforte d'Alba, a numerous congregation was found in 1017 Attacked by the troops of the Bishop of Milan, they preferred death by burning to the abjuration of their religion, and offer the first example of Christians put to death by other Christians for a, difference in faith. It is probable also that many of the Albigenses, who were pursued on both sides of the Alps, took refuge in the high valleys of the Cottian Alps southwest of Turin. In the twelfth century, Pierre Valdo who had given his fortune to the poor and begun the preaching of reformed doctrines, was driven with his followers from Lyons and likewise took refuge in these same high Alpine valleys. From this time on their inhabitants were known as Vaudois or Waldensees. They sent out preachers two by two, at first openly, and then later disguised as tinkers and in various other ways. The Waldensee movement came to have numerous adherents throughout most of the countries of western Europe. The Waldensees were constantly pursued as heretics. Whole armies and two crusades were directed against them. During the crusade loosed in 1208 by Innocent III, the cities of Provence and Languedoc were burned and sacked and 60,000 of their inhabitants perished. Everywhere the movement was stamped out except in the Alpine valleys. Following the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes (1685), they resisted the combined armies of France and Savoy so stubbornly that the remnant of them, about 2,600 in number, were permitted to withdraw to Geneva. Four years later, their pastor Henri Arnaud, gathered them together on the banks of Lake Geneva and led them across the Alps to the reconquest of their native valleys. Threatened with extermination and reduced to less than three hundred, they would not surrender, and were saved from annihilation only by a rupture between the ruler of Savoy and Louis XIV. The Vaudois were constantly subjected to unjust taxation, confiscation, kidnaping (especially of their children), imprisonment and death, frequently by burning, and even until 1848 (with the exception of the period of the French revolution and Napoleon), the law forbade them entrance to the universities, the professions, the army and commerce, and rendered. Invalid any title to land they might acquire outside their mountain valleys. Though some fled and formed colonies in Switzerland and Germany, the valleys became over-populated and all were reduced to the life of the peasant and shepherd. Nevertheless, each family owned its own little home and plot of ground and they lived in independent poverty. February 17, 1848, Charles Albert, king of Sardinia, signed a decree which may be summarized as follows: "The Vaudois are admitted to enjoy all the civil and political rights of our subjects, to attend the schools and universities, and to take academic degrees. PIONEER REMINISCENCES 339 Nevertheless nothing is changed as to the exercise of their religion or the schools they direct themselves." The Vaudois are remote from the beaten lines of travel. Today one must travel thirty miles southwest of Turin, and then climb the valleys of the Alps,. To reach them. It seems strange, that one year after the beginning of toleration in the valleys Apostle Lorenzo Snow, Joseph Toronto, and T. B. H. Stenhouse should have been called at the October conference in 1849, among the first group of missionaries to start from ?the Great Salt Lake Valley, to leave on a mission to Italy. And it is still more extraordinary that, having arrived in Genoa, June 25, 1850, under MOTHER OF MARGARET S. BARKER appointment from Apostle Snow, on "July 1, Elders T. B. H. Stenhouse and Joseph Toronto, left * * * to visit the protestant valleys of Piedmont." (Millennial Star, 12:371.) On July 20, 1850, Apostle Snow, in writing to President Richards of the European mission said: "I believe that the Lord has there (in the valleys of Piedmont) hidden up a people 
 amid the Alpine mountains, and it is the voice of the Spirit that I shall commence something of importance in that part of this dark nation." (Biography of Lorenzo Snow.) He further writes that: "When the anathemas of Rome shook the world and princes fell from their thrones, they dared to brave the mandates of the Pope and the armies of the mighty." When the missionaries entered the valleys, the protestant inhabitants numbered about twenty-one thousand and there were about five thousand Catholics. A provincial dialect and French ? were generally spoken and Italian was frequently understood. On the 27th of October, 1851, the first convert to the Church, Mr. Malan, many of whose descendants now live in Weber county, presented himself for baptism. In the next three or four years a number of families were baptized, among them, the Cardons, the Chatelains, the Bosios, the Beus' the Gaudins and the Stalles. President Snow writes that every man held a creed which had "been transmitted from sire to son for a thousand years, whether he be Protestant or Catholic; and often he will lay his hand on his heart, and swear by the faith of his forefathers that he will live and die as they have lived and died." Jean Pierre Stalle and his wife, Maria Gaudin (Stalle), were living in 1855 on the south slope of one of these Alpine valleys at Prarustin. Both belonged to old Vaudois families. At Angrogne (the home of Pierre Stalle before moving to Prarustin), written documents, still extant, contain the name Stalle in 1232. One of their churches as well as one of their generals bore the name Gaudin. They had been baptized in 1853 or 1854. They lived' from the chestnuts, grapes, figs and other fruits they cultivated, together with the products of their few sheep and goats and the culture of the silkworm. Margaret, their youngest daughter, relates that with the success of the elders, opposition grew. Says she: "The property of the Saints was frequently destroyed or stolen; sometimes stones and bricks were thrown. In November, 1855, President Franklin D. Richards and two others came to the house. They were hiding from the mob and asked for something to eat. Susette (a sister) milked enough goat's milk for them to drink, and mother set bread, butter and cheese on the table. When they were ready to leave, Franklin D, Richards told mother the family should go to Zion. Mother thanked him for his good will, but she had no hopes of it. There was much bitterness, she told us, and it was impossible to dispose of any property, even our wheat was stolen. "Two weeks later father and mother received a letter from President Richards telling them not to try to sell anything but to be ready to leave Turin for Liverpool and Zion. On December PIONEER REMINISCENCES 341 12, 1855, Pierre Stalle, his wife and children, Susette 19, Daniel 16, Maria 11, and Margaret 5, sailed on the ship John J. Boyd, in company with Michel Bosio, wife and eight children, Giovanni Roshon, wife and four children, Pietro Chatelain, Madelona Malan, Susanna Godin, Enrichetta Chatelain, and Catterina Godin. On the same boat there were 437 Saints from Denmark, Norway and Sweden, and 42 from Great Britain. Canute Peterson was in charge of the company. After a stormy passage, they arrived in New York on the fifteenth of February and proceeded by rail to Chicago, and from there to St. Louis and Florence, Nebraska. The folks remained at Florence three months and then joined the first handcart company on its way from Iowa City, Iowa, to Salt Lake. Father had worked digging wells in Florence, and the ground was so damp that it gave him rheumatism, which grew worse because he was forced to sleep on the ground on the way with the handcarts. He would get up early in the morning and walk about to get the stiffness out of his joints so that he could push the handcart and keep up with the company. He soon became helpless, however, and had to be put in one of the wagons. My brother Daniel, sixteen, and my sister Susette, not quite three years older, had to push the cart. Mother could not help as she had been ill all the way over on the boat. I (five) walked all the way across except when streams of water had to be crossed or when Mary (eleven) took me on her back. "At Florence all clothing, except that worn or carried in the handcart, had to be thrown away. Before reaching the valley, the teams became weak and a sack of flour was put on each handcart. Such clothing as had not been thrown away before starting on the journey or on the way had to be worn constantly in all kinds of weather and to sleep in at night and was of little value on reaching the valley. At times water was scarce, and they would dip it out of the buffalo tracks after a rain storm. At other times unusually long marches were made to reach wood and water. When there was no expectation of finding wood, a sack was hung on the back of the handcart to put dry buffalo chips in, picked up on the way. Buffaloes were plentiful, but there was no ammunition, and when a buffalo was killed they would roast and scrape the hide and then boil it to eat. "Tt was difficult for us because we could not talk English -and the others could not talk French, and we could not make our wants known. The last time mother helped father in the wagon, he told her he couldn't come to the valley, but to be patient, that the rest of them would reach the valley, and after they got in, none of them would ever lack for bread. He also told her that some day I (Margaret) would be in easy circumstances. This was at noon. When mother went back to thewagon, father was dead. When the grave was dug, father was 
 wrapped in a sheet and placed in it between two layers of sage brush. He died on the Platte, August 17, and we reached Salt Lake September 26, 1856." On arriving in Salt Lake, the problem for the widow and her four children was again an unusually difficult one, aggravated further by the language handicap. Alfred Randall took Mary into his family, and 'Susette, the eldest daughter, went to work for someone else. Philip Cardon and Paul Cardon had come to meet them, and two days after their arrival in Salt Lake, Margaret (my mother) says: "Mother, Daniel and I went with the Cardons to Ogden, to Bingham's Fort. We dug a dug-out to live in. The roof of the dug-out was made of willows-with cat-tails on top and then. Dirt. The dirt floor was covered every Saturday with fresh straw when we could get it. We had no furniture, but for a bed and a seat forked sticks were put in the wall and in the dirt floor, and rushes were woven in between and covered with straw. In place of glass for a window, a piece of cloth was used. "It was the year following the hard times. Grain was plentiful in the fields and we went immediately to gleaning wheat and gleaned enough for the winter's bread. Mother knew how to spin and weave in the old country. I gathered sun-flowers and burned them, holding them up in my hand, one at a time, so mother could see to spin at night. "We were here a little more than a year until the spring of the next year when we went with the 'Move' as far south as Spanish Fork. On the way back, mother stopped at Kaysville and gleaned wheat. A family had some cows and gave mother milk. To do something for it mother milked their cows. As cold weather approached, we returned to Ogden and lived on what is now Madison Avenue and twenty-seventh street. At that time there was a hollow and a stream in it at this point. I was baptized in this stream." After one or two years on Ogden bench, Mrs. Stalle moved to Logan to be near the Ballifs and the Cardons who had gone there to live. Two or three years later, she married Grandfather Cardon, and Margaret came back to Ogden to live with her sister Mary, (Mrs. Elihu Warren) who had married and was living there. Four years later Margaret married Henry Barker. They lived together fifty years on the old Rice farm, or until the time of father's death. Here they had a large family to whom they were able to give a good education. They sent all their sons on missions, three at one time. Mother taught all of her children to read before they were old enough to go to school. She now lives with her daughter, Mrs. I. L, Richards, in ae Fort, Ogden. By Gladys Stewart Benmion Yellowed with years, and musty, A bit of rare