We Tread the Dust Ellen L. Jakeman John Albert and Mary-Lou stood rather far apart and looked at each other.. So love's young dream was over! After being engaged for more than two years, they were parting forever! If not in hate and wrath, at least in sorrow not unmixed with bitterness. She was a splendid young woman, and he was an exemplary young man with no bad habits of the catalogued variety. He had been on a two-year's mission, and had gone into it with his soul. He had learned a foreign language, read intensively, had expanded spiritually and labored excessively. Undoubtedly he had grown in all directions?morally, mentally and even physically; for he had accepted the mission when he was at the formative age, and had been true to it and himself in every particular. So true, in fact, that he had failed in some degree to keep in close harmony with his home, mother and promised wife. Mary-Lou had missed him terribly when he went, had nerved herself to bear her share of love deferred, of loneliness and waiting, with none of the piquancy of applause for stimulant of new scenes, none of the gravity of important labors to steady and help her; but she had performed her task bravely and cheerfully. In a few words, they had grown apart. They no longer understood each other. Of course, he should?his life enriched by his mission ?have slipped back into the ranks of a "laboring and producing" citizen, as a discharged soldier is supposed to do. But, no! He had brought his zeal to instruct, admonish and improve home with him, and began using Mary-Lou as material convenient and malleable for his labors. His mother while very proud of the work he had accomplished on his mission, of the letters he had written to the bishop of the ward, and his public utterances, received more instruction from him than she really relished. The younger children got so that they just faded out when ever he put in an appearance. At first Mary-Lou had listened almost worshipfully, for her love made him, in a manner speaking, both priest and prince to her. When he accused her of being light-minded, she tried to be serious, but she was so happy, so young and healthy, that the dimples just would run round the corners of her sweet mouth in spite of her. When she demurred at attending three meetings on Sunday, and more than three through the week, he would look at her sorrowfully and shaking his head would remark that he greatly feared she was not very spiritual-minded. WE TREAD THE DUST 365 And so it went; and while they had had no real disagreement before, their mutual irritation had reached a point when talk between them, if they chanced to be alone, was reaching the vanishing point. Some of the young folks had decided that instead of attending a cut-and-dried twenty-fourth-of-July celebration in town, they would take a picnic and go into the woods for the day. - Mary-Lou, without knowing what to call it, was an ardent lover of nature, and felt in every fiber of her being that the beautiful semi-solitudes were really temples of God; and with some of her old enthusiasm and frankness she gaily informed John Albert of the proposed trip which was to include them, to be met with uplifted brows and questioning looks of disapproval. "What? Are you among those who disobey counsel? You heard what the bishop said last Sunday. He wanted no one to go picnicking this year. Wanted all of us at the celebration of Pioneer day. I am surprised! No one knows better than you, Mary-Lou, having labored in the Church organizations, that to make a success of any kind of a public function, it requires all of us to ?Put our shoulder to the wheel. I shall not go." Mary-Lou's face flushed.; "I'm not so conceited as to think the success or failing of anything depends on me. If my friends will take me unescorted, I'll go, whether you do or not!" John Albert was astonished and he was angry. He felt that he just must make her mind him now or probably she never would. At all cost he must make her yield; so he said with bitter deliberation: "Perhaps some of the gentlemen who took you to parties while I was gone will escort you!" And so these two who dearly loved each other, with the vast and understanding love born of a knowledge of what marriage, true marriage means, stood apart and looked at each other. Mary-Lou's flushed face grew slowly pale, and John Albert would have recalled his words had it been possible, for his heart misgave him. The girl slowly drew off her engagement ring and dropped it in the dust at his feet, and with one sob of anguish she could not suppress, she fled. In their hot anger and desperately wounded love, they had both overlooked the vital reason that the wise and fatherly old bishop had for asking that none of his flock go into the woods for pleasure, as lambs among wolves; for while Indians were not so numerous or dangerous as they had been, certain disquieting rumors had reached him, and he wanted no risks taken. John Albert knew from experience that it was dangerous to disobey counsel, and Mary-Lou had accepted the theory, but for the moment it was forgotten, and she went ahead and made her 
 preparations, and before the sun was up, on the morning of the twenty-fourth of July, was on her way with her young companions, to the chosen picnic grounds, though she felt in her heart that she would not enjoy a moment of the day. There are thousands of beauty nooks like the one they camped by, in our rugged Wasatch hills. A little pond of a lake there was caught in a depression, and fed by many little trickling, singing streams of sweet water, gurgling and laughing joyously as they go; while mighty phalanxes of dark, mysterious saw-timber marched to the very brink of the water, and seemed to be whispering grave warnings across. Camp was made on a grassy flat, in the shade of odorous cedar trees; the gentle old horses were turned out to graze and willow traps made and placed where the streams and lakelet met, ?the makers hoping an unwary trout might be caught. The spirit of worship fell upon these grown-up children. They sang: "Earth with her ten thousands flowers;" "For the Strength of the hills we bless thee," and followed with "O my Father, thou that dwellest," their fresh young voices making vibrant music the angels of heaven might have paused to listen to. A small camp fire was constructed and Mary-Lou assisted by a young man, began cooking the trout that had been caught in their Indian weir of willows. There was a strange pain at her heart, and a sickening sense of evil. The spring seats were taken from the wagon and placed around the camp-quilt covered with a white table cloth. The contents of well filled lunch baskets was spread about temptingly. Some of the girls had gathered wild flowers and garlanded themselves and decorated the feast. At this juncture the horses came snorting with fear over a little rise of ground making directly for the camp and protection of their masters, followed full tilt by a dozen painted Indians. When they saw the campers they broke into a chorus of yells, not pausing, however, in their pursuit of the horses, which they captured in less than a hundred yards of the camp. Over this small victory the Indians held a brief, but noisy and sinister jubilee. The occurrence had brought all our picnickers to their feet, and they stood in a huddled, terrified group near the wagon, except Mary-Lou. She, nearly crazy with stark fear, had crept under the wagon tongue, almost between the front wheels. The Indians came back to the camp in high, good humor; seeming to be joking in their own language, and hilarious over the evident fear and helplessness of their captives, for the boys were unarmed. WE TREAD THE DUST 367 Luckily for the captured whites the Indians were a party of young fellows; not blood-thirsty old warriors embittered by the cruel treatment so often meted out to them by transient white people; and even these scarred old souls were learning to discriminate between "Mericats," as the Indians called the border riff-raff, and the "Mormons" who were their friends. The Indians were pretty well armed and threatened the captives with their guns and knives, and told them in sign language that it would be safe for them to stay "Put" after which they proceeded to eat the lunch. It must have been a surprise to stomachs accustomed to a diet of dirty, half-cooked meat, to receive those delicacies. The food disposed of to the last crumb, the Indians sat down about the quilt and began to gamble for the exclusive possession of the horses, then the harness and other loose articles, after the Indian fashion. Soon one Indian lost all claim to the newly acquired riches, and in a bad humor he came over to the captives and divested one of the boys of his coat and hat for a new stake. This idea was very contagious. The whole gang then came over and helped themselves to all coats and hats, the girls' shawls, a watch one of the boys had, pocket knives, etc., and the gambling proceeded. The young folks were fully aware of their critical position, with death or captivity as a possibility. No guards actually stood over them, but they could not so much as change their position, or speak a word of encouragement to one another, with one or more of the Indians threatening them with their guns. They were without dinners and were exposed, bare-headed now, to the heat of the July sun, and were thirsty. One of the girls fainted; and involuntarily her escort stooped to pick her up and received a stunning blow from the butt of a Red man's gun; from the wound the blood flowed freely; and they were obliged to let the poor child lie there, till of herself she recovered. Bad luck still followed the hat and coat grabber. Having nothing more to gamble he eyed the captives with gloomy menace. He got his gun and announced his intention of killing them as a panacea for his bad luck. Mary-Lou had been praying with all the fervor of her stricken soul, for the help that could only come from God! As, no doubt all were praying. Suddenly she understood what their enemies were saying. The Indian who seemed to be the leader among them, and who had won the horses and most of the clothing, said to the self-proclaimed executioner: "No, not kill," but noting the mounting anger of the ruined gambler, added with the quick diplomacy of a successful leader: "They not 'Mericats,' they 'Mormons.' Take 
 all clothes, send them home like skinned rabbits. No men come shoot for that. Heap big laugh." The Indians gathered about their leader with shouts of approval, the suggestion appealing to their savage instincts, but it at last stayed the hand of the gloomy murderer. The boys and girls moved about uneasily sensing the new phase of their unfortunate situation, but not understanding a word the Indian said, could not even conjecture what was being planned for them. Mary Lou had been almost paralyzed with horror, before she heard and understood this last brutal suggestion. Then she felt all fear leave her, and a searing indignation against these oppressors took its place. She and her people had always been their friends, and do what they might she would Not cringe before them any more. She crawled out of her hiding place, if such a name could be applied to so perfectly obvious a space, threw back her tawny curls, and like a young princess mounting a throne, she climbed upon the wagon tongue. As the astonished Indians rushed toward her, she stretched out her arm in a gesture of command, and from her lips came guttural sounds that half persuaded her friends that she had gone insane. Not so the Indians! They ceased their ribaldry, and gathered about the wagon tongue in open mouthed astonishment. When she paused on an upward inflection, as if asking a question, the Indians bowed their heads and agreed with her. When she had finished she folded her arms in a natural gesture of one who has completed an incontrovertible truth. The leader drew his band around him, and addressed them briefly, and whatever it was he said the Indians agreed with him. Then a miracle happened! Those Indians went swiftly and cheerfully and brought back the horses, harness, clothes, watch, pocket knives, and everything they had taken and restored the plunder to the rightful owners. Not one among them moved with such cheerful alacrity as the sour-faced warrior who had appointed himself their executioner. Too surprised to quite understand what was happening, the young folks remained silent. When the Indians mounted their horses and were ready to ride away the chief approached Mary Lou and made such a salute as a brave might accord to a high chieftain, which the girl returned with dignified solemnity, and the raiders departed. As the Indians disappeared, the recent captives made for the water and the shade. Their nerves had been strained almost to the breaking point, but youth is resilient, and they soon began to WE TREAD THE DUST 369 discuss the terrible episode, and to question Mary Lou. They were bewildered by their delivery: "We didn't know you could talk Indian!" "When and where did you learn that?" "What did you say to them?" But Mary Lou could only shake her head and answer truthfully, "I do not know." Then a foam-flecked horse dashed into the forlorn-looking little camp, ridden by the repentant and badly alarmed John Albert. He sprang from his horse and gathered the pale and trembling Mary-Lou into his arms as one having the right, and oh, how glad she was of that safe shelter! Then there were mutual explanations, and John Albert accounted for his presence by saying: "I had been uneasy all day and thought I would come out and get Mary-Lou, and as I came over the last hill, I saw Indians riding away and was afraid they might have sighted you." "Sighted us! Well I rather guess they did! We have been prisoners for more than two hours, and would still be??or dead ?if Mary Lou hadn't got over her scare enough to talk to them; but I can't imagine what she said to them!" spluttered Smith. "Her talk to them? Why she don't know a word of Indian! Do you?" questioned John Albert; but Mary Lou did not reply. Then there fell a significant silence, and after a few tense moments one of the girls said: "I know! We were all praying for deliverance, and Mary Lou had the gift of tongues." With one accord heads were bared, and on their knees that little band, rescued by the direct intervention of the Most High, from they knew not what horrors, listened, with a deep "Amen," while John Albert poured forth such a heart-felt prayer as it is safe to say, those hills and glens had perhaps never heard before. Immediate preparations were made to return home. John Albert lifted Mary Lou to a place on his horse, and as he slipped the engagement ring back on her finger said, and his voice carried a world of humble apology: "And I said you were not spiritual minded!" Mary Lou was always reticent on the subject of her talk to those Indians, and it was some time before she could bring herself to tell even her husband the few sentences she had really understood of their talk, and she had thought they were talking English. As to what she said to them, she never had known. It was a message straight from the heavenly Father to his red children, and they understood. It is well to keep the radios between us and the seat of power in excellent working order by living pure unselfish lives, for we shall need such service every hour so long as we tread the dust. 
 Editors' Note: This story is founded on an actual incident; for a tongue was given to a party of young picnickers under just such circumstances.
Yer Mother and Yer Dad Vilate Roundy
You can talk about yer backin', an' The value of a "pull", An' say the one who's goin' to win must have a pocketful. But I say the strongest backin' 'at a feller ever had Is the unseen moral backin' of yer mother an' yer dad. Oh it's stronger than the law courts, to keep ye climbin' straight, It helps you more than influential friends, of which folks prate, When their heart-strings wrap around yer own an' hold ye sound and true In the way that's right, and from the things ye hadn't ought to do. And when temptation comes your way you ban it like a cad, Because you see a vision of yer mother an' yer dad.
You couldn't bear to see 'em grieve?you simply couldn't bear To have 'em face the fact that all their teachin' wuz thin air, When just a moment's ponderin' an' you can figger out The way that their advice would lead?you know beyond a doubt Which way you'd make 'em happy, an' which way you'd make 'em sad, An' of course you choose to please 'em, yer mother an' yer dad. An' when a chance comes by to work, or in some way win praise, Tho' tacklin' it means rough, hard knocks, and busy weary days, Yer almost duty bound to try, a thinkin' o' the glow That lights yer parents' faces up?if you win out, you know! And always there's a chance like that?a chance to make 'em glad, There isn't no incentive like yer mother an' yer dad.
Ye can't quite understand it but it's vital, just the same; It makes ye feel down in yer heart ye's gotta play the game! An' sometime in the future when you've rose to fame and power, You'll know you won it all by just a-thinkin' every hour Of pleasin' dad an' mother by just bucklin' down yer best, An' you'll know their teachin's conquered when ye put it to the test. Then you'll stand up before the world?an' won't it make 'em glad! Just tell 'em that you owe it all to Mother and to Dad!
Right to left: John L.