CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 379 give a suggestion that the ordinary housewife and mother is absolutely helpless to measure them alone. She can accept the gifts of science and apply them. Then have the class or the group of women read the table of facts together; then, having learned what all the symbols mean, say to the women, "Let us make a list now of all of the foods listed there that have in them Vitamin C, or have Vitamin A, or other important elements. Then the class may be asked to take the papers on which they are working, and with a pencil indicate five foods which could be served for breakfast. This Magazine and a sheet of paper and a pencil in the hands of the women is all the equipment that is necessary. More would probably be learned this way than if the class leader merely told the class the contents of that lesson. Substitute for the telling-type of lesson a little more studying together. Learn while you are together and let the women work out the practical application of what they learn after they return home. The same plan of teaching can be used for the theological lesson on the life of John the Baptist. Have the class work over the facts as they are found,?a little bit in the book of Matthew, a little in Mark, and a little in Luke or John. Then have them piece it all together and get the chronology. The teacher can give the class the contribution of modern revelation. Let us have a little less of the telling, a little less of the feeling of responsibility on the part of the teacher and more on the part of class members but let all study together. The teacher should always summarize in a fine, systematic way the things that have
been learned. Teachers should be conscious of their aims and follow the study method. I believe it will add to the pleasure and to the joy and value of the adult classes in the Church. Conference Addresses ALICE L. REYNOLDS? Perhaps I have had my most intimate touch with Relief Society work in my contact with the lessons. If the Lord will bless me with his Spirit, I shall endeavor to bring to you a testimony from the lesson work. Nine years ago there was a lesson published in the theological section that told us that when the time should come that the Holy Land should be redeemed and Jerusalem rebuilt, the Jews from all parts of the world would go back having a knowledge of the arts and crafts of the whole civilized world, and as a consequence the work of redemption would. Go on very rapidly. Last month a magazine known as the Readers' Digest published an article called "Boom Days in the Holy Land," and when I quote to you some of the matter in that article, I-shall leave it to you to judge whether the things said in your lessen are true. It is only five years since the British accepted the mandate for Palestine. We are told today that there is a twelve-story building?an American skyscraper, being put up outside the walls of Jerusalem; that there is a hotel that will rival in magnificence any of the hotels in Egypt, and that the city of Tel Avive, a Jewish city built north of Jaffa, has 35,000 Jewish inhabitants, and that it is the first wholly Jewish city built in that land since the time of the Romans; that there are seventy industries going on in that city; that they are making textiles, stoves, and a good many other things. Perhaps the most remarkable industry is a brick factory, which is kept going night and day, with three shifts of men. Now when you think that most of the houses in that land have been mud huts, you will realize what this means. We are told on the best authority that one may ride between Cairo and the city of Jerusalem_and find mud huts that resemble the homes that sheltered Abraham and Joseph. Now, to think that people have gone into that land, who know how to make brick, you may fancy what a transformation is taking place. Not very far from the city of Tel Avive is a power plant which furnishes it with electric lights. It must seem a marvel to those people to witness such a sight. When Christ stood on the Mount of Olives he said, 'Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how oft would I have gathered thee together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but ye would not. Henceforth your land shall be a land of desolation unto you." How literally that prophecy has been fulfilled only those who have seen the desolation can realize. Will you accept my 'testi- CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 381 mony that the prophecy has been fulfilled to the very letter. Sister Eliza R. Snow who once stood at the head of this organization, visited Palestine, in the year 1873. If you care to turn to her poems you will find that all the way through they breathe the story of the desolation and almost the degradation of the land. Of course, she has filled her poem with the light of promise, and we live in the hour when that promise is being fulfilled. Just let me add one other item. Today it is said that the death rate in the city of Jerusalem is not greater than that in the city of London. When the British went there they found the land covered with cisterns. You will remember that Christ told us about the cisterns used to catch water. He reproved the Pharisees because they objected to his healing on the Sabbath, and said, Which of you, if you had a sheep fall into a pit would not assist it in getting out? There were six thousand cisterns in that land, and the first thing the British did was to clean those cisterns out; some of them had not been cleaned for over one hundred years, and every Summer people suffered and died from malaria. This will indicate how great has been the improvement along sanitary lines. Now the word of the Lord faileth not. We have heard our leaders prophecy all our lives that the day would come when Jerusalem should be redeemed. We heard in the beautiful song sung thismorning the words: "Lo, Judah's remnant cleansed from sin shall in the promised Canaan stand." GENERAL SECRETARY, MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN The lack. Of faith in the world today, together with some recent personal experiences, has led me of late to appreciate more than ever before the value of faith and the great blessing it is to those who possess it. I am sure that every woman in this audience has passed through trials and afflictions which would have been almost unbearable without faith in God and a testimony of the gospel, with all that it comprehends. Faith in our heavenly Father and in his Son Jesus Christ is an asset to any individual. It helps him to be a brave and courageous individual. It helps to make him a positive and forceful character as opposed to a negative and vascillating one. It helps him to have confidence in himself and confidence in others; to believe in' himself and to believe in others; to be generous to those in need and charitable to those less fortunate; to be cheerful, hopeful and optimistic. Faith in the Father and the Son is a blessing?yes one of the greatest blessings one can have. It is more far-reaching as a comforter than any other influence. It is a source of solace 
 in times of sickness, sorrow and despair. Faith helps an individual to be philosophical and to meet with comparative composure whatever comes, and to be resigned and reconciled to circumstances over which he has no control. It helps one to be meek and humble and to put his trust in God. ' Faith in the Father and the Son presupposes a belief in their teachings which include a pre-existent state and a life beyond the grave; and to a Latter-day Saint it comprehends the gospel plan of life and salvation as revealed to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Such faith and such belief helps one to formulate a plan of life on the highest plane, and to set up worthy and worthwhile standards of living which conform to the standards of the gospel. It helps one to judge of values to choose between those things which are really worthwhile?which are lasting and eternal?and those things which are temporary and passing. It makes one realize that life is a stepping stone to a higher life, and the better the life here the greater the happiness here and in the life to come. Faith fills the possessor with the desire to emulate the life of the Savior and to keep the commandments of God.. Sublime faith is one of the greatest of all gifts, Let us pledge our allegiance to our faith. Let us as individuals say, "No man may destroy my faith and hope and belief and leave me a stone." For I have observed that those who have no faith, and who tend to undermine and destroy faith in others, never, so far as I know, leave anything constructive in its place. Let' us not be influenced by doubters and cynics and atheists, nor by the wave of doubt and despair which is filling the earth today. Let us cling to the belief that faith with good works is an asset, a comforter, a blessing; it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. Let us cling to the belief that faith is our birthright and let us sell it not for a mess of pottage.