[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The many friends of Sister Jane S. Richards,
first counselor to Sister Zina D.H. Young, will
be pleased to hear that she has recovered from a
lingering illness of several weeks duration, and
though not quite so strong as before, she is able
to resume her duties in the position which she
has been called to fill.

	THE fourth of July was with the firing of cannons
from the evening before until the morning, and
also otherwise, celebrated in Salt Lake City with
considerable ceremony, and a great deal of patri-
otic enthusiasm at Liberty Park, where the people
assembled after the street parade which was on
quite a magnificent scale. Flags and banners,
bands of music and a grand display of beauty, the
goddess of liberty and so on, and after the
speeches, songs, toasts and the conclusion of the
exercises in the park, there was a feast prepared
the principal feature of which was the barbacue.
So the day passed off pleasantly and in the evening
the illumination from fire-works in various parts
of the city increased and hightened the day’s en-
joyment, especially so for the children,who always
look forward to, and expect a jollification ahd a
hurrah on Independence day.

	The Annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I, A.of
the Eighth Ward, in this city, was held on Tues-
day evening, July 9th, in the ward meeting house.
The hall was handsomely fitted up for the occa-
sion, and decorated with flowers in such rich
profusion as to add grace and beauty to the enter-
tainment. But more beautiful still, were the
sparkling eyes and intelligent faces of the young
ladies who had prepared this "feast of reason
and flow of soul,” for their invited guests. The
room was well filled, and the exercises were of a
sufficiently varied character to render them at-
tractive; instrumental music, and singing added
to the enjoyment of the evening. There was a
duett by the Misses Sarah and Rebecca Mc-
Murrin, and a song by Miss Nellie Sheets. The
reading of a poem, by Mrs. M. P. Young was
one of the features of the evening, out of the
ordinary routine of such meetings, which some-
times have too much of a sameness. Mrs. Young,
the President, seemed to have the tact to preside
unassumingly. After the exercises were con-
cluded, short speeches were made by sisters Zina
D. H. Young, M. A., and Lillie Freeze, and
Elders John Nicholson, James Eardley, Jr., and
Bishop Sheets. After the adjournment, refresh-
ments, etc. were served to all. The young
ladies acquitted themselves creditably in all their
parts. Success to such live associations, may
they continue to grow in wisdom and understand-
ing, and attain the most desirable excellence.

	DURING the last year a Kindergarten school
was started in the 18th, Ward just inside the
Eagle Gate in the building known as Brigham
Young’s school house. Mrs. M. E. Randall a
teacher of many years standing in the community,
and Miss Lizzie Taylor were the teachers. Miss
[Column 2]
Taylor prepared herself for Kindergarten work by
taking a regular course of training under Mrs.
Marcus E. Jones a professional teacher. Miss
Taylor also taught one term with Mrs. Jones in
order to become thoroughly proficient. The
school commenced Oct., 22nd, 1888, and closed
in June of the present year. This year Miss
Taylor will undertake the entire responsibility
herself, and will open at the same place on the
19th, of August next, Miss Taylor has every
facility for teaching necessary, piano, tables,balls,
and other things required in the work, and she
should have the patronage which would help her
forward to success in the undertaking. We have
no hesitancy in saying that there is no mode of
teaching children so thorough and effective as the
Kindergarten. Miss Taylor has persevered under
difficulties during the past year, but we do hope
she will have the genuine courage to continue in
the conscientious work she has commenced, until
she will meet with the success and patronage so
well deserved. The Latter-day Saints need this
system of schools and Miss Taylor ought to have
encouragement. She is bright and intelligent and
we believe well calculated to take charge of a
school of this kind. We examined quite carefully
the work of little Christine McAllister who had
been attending the Kindergarten kept by Mrs.
Randall and Miss Taylor and we found the child,
though very young, quite familiar with form and
color.


