[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Home | Title: Home Ethics - Sympathy]

Home Ethics and Art. LESSON November 23. ETHICS. SYMPATHY. The tender, unselfish understanding which is called sympathy is one of the most Christ-like traits of the human heart. Jesus was eminently sympathetic and compassionate. Parents that are wisely sympathetic, gain and keep the respect and companionship of children forever. Children are not always sympathetic because few children are naturally mi selfish. It is a virtue that must be cultivated and properly controlled. Boys and 
 girls should be trained to be sympathetic, and especially to father and mother and to the aged members of the household. Sympathy begets confidence and inspires loves. It is woman's chief charm. The girl who is sympathetic is always well supplied with friends and lovers, for companionship is second nature to her. A sympathetic officer in the Relief Society, who has lacked education, attracts more members, inspires more courage, cheers more downcast souls, and does more good than the best trained woman could possibly do if she were cold, selfish and harshly unsympathetic in her spirit. Sympathy is the key that unlocks the door of the human heart. Children should be taught sympathy for animals. They usually love their pets but are not always considerate of them. A child should not be permitted to maul and abuse cats, dogs or any other animals. We should cultivate a large sympathy with the suffering of our neighbors, and with the world outside our own doors. The woman who loves music, beauty and harmony is usually a tenderly sympathetic soul. There is also a danger that sympathy be bestowed unwisely. When children need to be disciplined mothers must control their sympathetic natures ? as God does when we need and receive His chastening. Children should never be laughed at; some supremely sensitive children are crushed and their future lives blighted by ridicule and a lack of sympathy from their parents and brothers and sisters. The tenderest note in all sympathetic natures is usually struck by deformity and disease, but little children should be taught this delicate compassion because they are inclined to ridicule what they do not understand. Women and men of highly sensitive natures sometimes make fools of themselves by offering maudlin sympathy to wicked men, to condemned murderers and other guilty souls. One is distressed to know anybody must suffer, but we should not make of our sympathy a vice instead of a virtue. Extreme sympathy predisposes to nervous troubles, especially when the person is always sorry for himself. Sympathize with others? yes, when sympathy is wise and true, but rarely offer yourself the weakening consolation of self-pity. Sympathy is to love what the fragrance is to the flower ? its essence and spirit. "Put yourself in his place." Understand others' burdens through the rare alchemy of pure sympathy. Cultivate sympathy and your friends will cultivate you. QUESTIONS. 1. What is sympathy? 2. When should parents sympathize with children? 3. How should children treat their parents and the aged? 4. How can they be taught to do this? 5. What makes the plainest girl attractive? 6. What would you say about false sympathy, or sentimentality? 7. How can you cultivate sympathy?