To President Heber J. Grant on his Seventieth Birthday, Monday, November 22, 1926 Lula Greene Richards
To the seventh of God's modern prophets and seers: Saints and friends come to honor your seventy years.
Grandmothers in Israel, we come today, Like small, trusting children, devotion to pay.
May you live in the flesh and his Prophet be known When Jesus our Savior shall come to his own.
In your life may all promised blessings combine, Of Doctrine and Covenantspart eighty-nine.
And all who consider you seek so to live As to gain all the blessings those promises give.
As thousands will greet you, each one should be brief; So, hail and good day, our dear Leader and Chief.
Our love and our prayers for you daily extend, God bless you forever, our brother and friend.
(Seventy-seven last Aprilseven years and seven months your seniora lot of sevens.)
The sentiments in the above poem are heartily and happily endorsed by Zina Y. Card, Persis L. Y. Richards, Alma E. W. Felt, Naomi Dowden, Ellis R. Shipp, Minerva R. Knowlton, Catherine H. K. Hammer and thousands of other women in Israel.

Riches Maud Chegwidden Poem awarded first prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow poetry contest
Gold and precious jewels The wealth of the Indies, Are at my command; Here in my hand;
Gold that clings in rings and curls And holds my heart therein, The gold of thy hair, Sweet, sweet Lyn!
Gems from out the Orient, Jewels of a queen, Bought with blood and terror, All these have I seen;
But sapphire eyes and ruby lips, Purest pearls within, Are my living jewels, Sweet, sweet Lyn!
There are mystic places, Glamorous and far, Bearing names to conjure with, Abukir, Abar,
Samarkand and Smyrna, But I have never yet Seen a sight that thrilled me As thou, Lynette!
Oh! The days are happy, With babies round the knee; Joys too deep for utterance Fill the heart of me.
I move among my treasures With meditative air, On my lips a song, and In my heart a prayer!

To the Sego-Lily Linda S. Fletcher Poem awarded second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow poetry contest
Thou fragile flower of the wild The rocky upland's dainty child! 'Tis Spring's fair hands that open up The creamy whiteness of thy cup.
In loveliness thou dost unfold, Thou flower with a heart of gold! Like gentle maid on loved lord's breast, Thou on the mountain-side dost rest.
The Earth displays, in blooms like thee, How beauteous her great soul must be, And sends in springtime blossoms pure To show that life doth still endure.
O flower of my native state! In by-gone years thou didst await The Father's biddingof thy store Gave, when his people hungered sore.
I would that thus, when need of me God for his purposes shall see, I may be ready, heart and hand, To do whate'er he shall command.