Notes from the Field" department in the Magazine. We have looked eagerly each month for these reports, and have profited by the experiences of other societies whose works are recorded here. The Relief Society work in the Eastern States stands as one of the most powerful units of missionary work. Relief Society work has strengthened my testimony. It has shown me the greatest means by which women may develop themselves, and stay within their sphere. My prayer is that each of us here will be filled with the desire that our sisters in the East have, that they might further the spirit of the gospel which means so much to them.
HAWAIIAN MISSION Mrs. Annie Lau, President Hama Kua Conference Relief Societies of Hawaiian Mission
During our last April conference Mrs. William Waddoups was made president of the Hawaiian Relief Societies, and she suggested to Elder Eugene Neff, president of the mission at that time, that I be sent as an official delegate to join you here in your conference. I am thankful to my heavenly Father for being with you as a Relief Society officer. As I stand here and occupy a few minutes of your time, I desire to ask your faith and prayers that I may be able to report the work in Hawaii successfully.
There are thirty-five Relief Societies organized, the Honolulu branch alone consisting of four hundred members, it being the largest. We are taking up the mission of Christ and the people enjoy it immensely, but next year we will take the Relief Society Magazine lessons. President Waddoups will translate them and send them to every branch. We meet once a week. We draw from the treasury every week to support the poor. We take good care of the sick, the widow and the fatherless, and prepare the dead for burial. We are not only taking care of the people in our Church, but we take care of those outside also.
When Sister Lyman visited Hawaii some time ago she drew attention to general health conditions in the Islands, and to the high infant death rate among our people. She told of the baby clinics and health centers here, and recommended that we take up such work in Hawaii. We began this work in earnest, and have had much assistance and help from the Board of Health. The public health doctors and nurses have given freely of their time and effort for our baby clinics, and we are getting excellent results. We have among the missionaries a trained nurse who is devoting herself almost exclusively to the health of our people. We are busy from Monday to Sunday in our Societies, especially the officers, and I want to bear you my testimony this is the true work of God that has been restored to earth for the salvation of man. I pray the Lord to bless us all.
MISS DOROTHY LEDYARD Director, Nursing Service, Pacific Division, American Red Cross, San Francisco
I feel it is a great privilege for me to have the opportunity of addressing you on a subject very dear to my heart, and I am told it is one in which you are all interested. I am talking on the question of public health. I am a public health nurse myself, and I have done that work largely in rural communities. At present my position is in directing this work in communities in the western area under the Red Cross. Our organization extends through seven of the western states and the Territory of Alaska.
You will probably be interested in the work of the public health nurse in rural communities. I presume that most of you have come not from large cities but from towns in the outlying districts. I will tell you a little story of the test they used to give away back in the Middle Ages when they questioned a man's sanity. If a person developed certain symptoms which led people to believe he was not normal, they had a certain test to determine whether he was insane or not. They would place some sort of receptacle under a running stream of water and give him a small utensil and tell him to empty the bucket, and if he would proceed to empty the bucket without removing the bucket from the stream of running water, they said he was insaneany sane person would remove the bucket from under the stream.
In some of our public health methods, and in some of our methods of treating disease, we might apply similar tests to some advantage. If it never occurs to us to find out why we are ill, why we have epidemics, why we continue to have various troubles with our children in connection with their health and well-being, I think we might be adjudged almost insane. If we keep putting a salve on a skin disease without finding out what causes the disease, we are wasting a great deal of energy. We are getting down to fundamentals when we find out the cause of things and get at the root of them. That is the reason why public health nurses are working, and why there are so many organizations interested in public health. We are trying to get down to childhood to see what we can do to prevent people from going through life with physical defects and physical difficulties.
At the time of the draft during the World War, there were hundreds and thousands of our young men who were not permitted to serve in the army at the time when the country needed them, because they were suffering from physical defects which could have been corrected in early childhood, and which would have enabled them to carry their share of the burden. There were thousands of these young men who, to all appearances, did not seem to have any defects. If they were seen walking down the street, it could not be told that they had serious heart defects, or broken arches, but when such young men came up for a physical examination, it was found that an appalling number of them were not able to stand up under the strenuous life which they would have to live in a military camp. The doctors were so strongly impressed by what this meant to the country, that statistics were gathered and it was found that a great number of these men certainly would have been in perfect physical condition had they had some minor defects corrected early enough. It was that which led the Red Cross and other agencies to start this public health nursing work among school children to detect defects early enough to enable the child to go through life in good physical condition.
We ought to be able to promise our children an opportunity for good healthy physical development. The more opportunity I have had of studying public health work (and I have been privileged to study it here and in countries abroad) the more and more I am impressed with the fact that the children of today have opportunities which many of us would have been grateful to have had. Some of us have to go through life with all sorts of chronic trouble which we might have escaped had our parents understood certain fundamental principles of health. With all that science is contributing to this field, we certainly ought to be able to do a great deal of good.
It isn't that we expect the nurse to go into the school house and follow up her visit in the home in an interfering sort of way, but we do feel that because of her training and experience and the specialized knowledge which is hers, she is able to detect certain defects which the parents, with all the love and affection they bear their children, sometimes are not able to notice, and she is therefore invaluable in the community.
On one occasion I was addressing a small group of people on the subject of introducing into their community a public health nurse. The group was made up of the prominent people in the community, and I was giving them some idea of what the nurse would be expected to do for them. I asked them what they thought about this work, and what they thought the nurse might be able to contribute to this community. The banker of the town got up and said he would like to tell a little story which concerned a personal incident in his own life. He said, "I had a little son going to a public school, when we were living in an eastern city. One day the boy came home with a little notice from the school nurse which called our attention to the fact that there seemed to be some defect in the child's throat and suggested that we take our child to the family physician. My wife and I are both college graduates and we resented the fact that this school nurse would presume to suggest to us that we were not taking proper care of our child, and so we ignored it. About a year later a diphtheria epidemic came into the town, and our boy contracted diphtheria and died. When the surgeon came in he told us that the child had very badly infected tonsils, and that had they been removed a year or so ago, the child might have had a chance of recovering." He told that story with tears in his eyes. This man was willing to confess that it was through his own ignorance of what the nurse was attempting to do that he actually had lost the life of his child.
It is that sort of thing that the nurse is expected to do. She does not give medical attention. She can in no way diagnose or treat disease, but she can, because of the experience and training which she has had, notice certain physical defects, because it is her business to notice them, and call the attention of the parents to these defects. The child then may have at least an opportunity of getting its case corrected early enough so that he doesn't have to go through life handicapped.
I do not feel that emphasis should be placed on physical defects constantly. It is far more important for the nurse to bring to the children a knowledge of right health habits. I am sure many of the members of this congregation would be able to bear me out when I say that parents may suggest things to their children over and over again without making much impression, while the teacher or nurse may make a suggestion in the school room which they would readily follow. The outsider can stimulate the interest, because suggestions may be made in a different way than they are at home every day, and children are inclined to follow them more readily.
I was addressing another group of people who were considering the introduction of a nurse in the town. A nurse had been there paid by the local chapter of the Red Cross, but the funds were low and they felt that they could not afford to hire her for another year, and so the people were asking the county to help support this service. In this meeting, the idea was to find out from the citizens of that community if the nursing service had been beneficial. One gentleman got up in the back and said he had a little story to tell which would give his idea of what the nurse is able to do. He said, "I have a boy about thirteen and his mother and I have read in newspapers and magazines that milk is a good food for children, and so we tried for months to get that boy to drink milk. But he had the idea that only babies drink milk, and he said he didn't like milk, that it made him sick, and he had all sorts of excuses. One night at the table he came in and said, 'I wish you would give me a pint of milk tomorrow for lunch.' We were both surprised and stared at each other with our mouths open. We said, 'We thought you didn't like milk.' But the boy answered, 'Oh, all the fellows are drinking milk now.'" This illustrates what this outside influence can sometimes do when father and mother may have failed to get such a thing done.
And now a word about the proper and nutritious foods for growing children. In many rural communities children walk long distances to school and bring a lunch in a little bucket and sometimes that lunch is not very well prepared and does not contain the nutrients, properly balanced, that that child needs. We all realize what scientific farming means to usa man who has a scientific knowledge of what certain soils need to produce certain types of crops, comes to help the farmers who have not had an opportunity of acquiring this specialized knowledge. We realize that science is advancing so fast that we, as lay people, in our own homes cannot hope to keep up with it, but there is no reason in the world why we should not benefit from it. We have learned that just as certain constituents are necessary to get the best possible results from poultry growing, or agricultural pursuits, so certain foods are necessary to get the best sort of development in a human individual. That is why we need to know what children are eating to develop brains and muscles and to develop normally.
A nurse working in a county said she had been urging the children to drink milk. She told them the next time she came she would ask how many had begun to drink milk every day. A few months later when she returned to this school, she asked the question. After the children had held up their hands, and put them down again, one little boy kept his hand up. When the nurse asked him what he wished to say, he said, "I just wanted to tell you that the calf died and so I am drinking milk now, too." Often, you see, it is not so much a question of the fact that we do not have every desire to do these things for our children, but it is often that we have not the specific knowledge which can help to bring them to this wonderful state which we are working toward.
I have had the opportunity of working in some of the slum districts of some of the biggest cities in this country and abroad, and when I would see that ignorance, that lack of actual necessities of life, it seemed to me that it was of no use to keep on working when such centers exist where people have not an opportunity to live like human beings. Then I have come away and had the privilege of speaking to groups of people such as you, whose interest inspires me and makes me feel that in this great human family we have a leaven at work and that we need not be discouraged. It seems that this leaven is provided for in the scheme of things and gives us courage.
Another nurse that I might tell you about worked in a county where there was only one doctor to be called on in the entire county, and he was a man of advanced age and it was very difficult for him to go to various places, so the nurse there meant a great deal to those people, as you can imagine. She was one day giving physical inspection in a small rural school of not more than a dozen children. One child apparently was blindshe could hardly see and would hold a book so close that the condition of the eyes was very noticeable. The nurse spoke to the teacher and asked her if she had noticed it. The teacher had, but she was young and inexperienced, having received her training and examination in the county, and did not know what she could do about it, although she realized that something ought to be done. This teacher lived several miles from the school house, and the child several miles in the opposite direction, so she had never visited the parents and talked with them concerning the condition of the child's eyes. But this nurse had her Ford, as all nurses in rural communities have, and so she said she would go home with the little girl. She did so, and met the father and mother. They were living on a little farm. They were American people of good old stock. The father said when attention was called to the condition of the child's eyesight, that they had been much concerned about the condition of the girl's eyes, but that they did not know exactly what to do and thought that perhaps she might outgrow it. (You know there is a superstition that if you let a thing alone, it might vanish instead of getting much worse and getting to the place where nothing can be done.) The nurse found out by a cursory examination that these people were just barely making both ends meet on this farm, and it was not because they were not working diligently either. It would take a day to go to the county seat where there was a doctor, and they had kept putting it off. The nurse explained to the father that she had for her use a revolving sum of money that had been given to her by some club with the idea that she might use it in instances where it was difficult for the parents to pay for physical examination or correction, or where children needed eyeglasses, or other medical or surgical treatment which they could not supply. It was decided that she would take the girl to be examined. She had to go away up into Oregon from Northern California to find a specialist. The doctor was very much interested in the case of the little girl, and another man was called in for consultation. The two of them examined the girl's eyes and then took the nurse aside and said that it was a very pitiful case, that the child was suffering from a basic eye disease which could not be helped. They said that had she had treatment five years earlier undoubtedly they could have saved her eyesight, but under the circumstances, nothing could be done for her.
I have told that story to county commissioners who were very unwilling to appropriate the $1,800 for the nurse's salary. If we are not moved from an economic standpoint, we surely are moved from a humanitarian standpoint. I was so impressed by this incident that I rang up our state school for the blind in Berkeley (and it happened that our governor had just cut the appropriations of our institution) and asked how much it costs to maintain one child one year in the institution. His answer was $782.50 a year. We must remember, if that seems rather high, that a blind child has to have special attention, specialized instruction, special equipment, etc., and so I say to the county commissioners, "Which is cheaper, to maintain a public health nurse who can detect defects early enough to have them corrected during childhood, or to maintain state institutions and take care of blind children?" Public health work is preventive health work. If your communities are not doing something along this line, give them the message of preventive health work. It is not all 'looking to the correction of physical defects, but it is bringing information to the children of right health habits which the nurse can do. A nurse who doesn't teach as she goes does not fulfil her duty. She has had the opportunity for study, for the right instruction of the youth in healthful habits, and it is her obligation to impart that knowledge as she goes.